56 SUPPURATION. Acute Suppuration of a Mucous Memhrane.—When pyo- genic organisms gain access to a mucous membrane, such as that of the bladder, urethra, or middle ear, the usual phenomena of acute inflammation and suppuration ensue, followed by the discharge of pus from the free surface. It would appear that the most marked changes take place in the sub-mucous tissue, causing the covering epithelium in places to die and leave small superficial ulcers. When mucous glands are present in the membrane the pus is mixed with mucus—muco-pus. Diffuse Cellulitis and Diffuse Suppuration. Cellulitis is an acute inflammatory affection resulting from the introduction of some organism—commonly the streptococcus p>yogems—into the cellular connective tissue of the integument, intermuscular septa, tendon sheaths, or other structures. The process always begins in a wound, although this may be small, superficial, and insignificant, such as a pin-prick, a scratch, or a crack under a nail, and the wound may have been healed for some time before the inflammation sets in. The cellulitis, also, may develop at some distance from the seat of inoculation, the organisms having travelled by the lymphatics. While it is true that the inflammation may resolve without the formation of pus, such a result is exceptional, and it is convenient to consider the preliminary inflammation—the cellulitis—and the resulting suppuration together. The virulence of the organisms, the loose, open nature of the tissues in which they develop, and the free lymphatic circulation by means of which they are spread, tend to make the resulting inflammatory and suppurative processes become diffuse. Some- times numbers of cocci are carried for a considerable distance from the primary area before they are arrested in the lymphatics, and thus several patches of inflammation may appear with healthy areas between. As a result of the virulence of the bacteria and their toxins, in many cases there is sloughing of considerable portions of tissues of low vitality, such as fat, fascia, or tendon. The pus infiltrates the meshes of the cellular tissue, but if the process continue for some time it may collect and form distinct circum- scribed abscesses which eventually point. Clinical Features.—The inflammatory reaction in cases of diffuse cellulitis is severe, and is usually ushered in by a distinct chill or even a rigor, while the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or 105° F. The pulse is proportionately increased in frequency.