THE LYMPHATICS. 318 Diseases of Lymphatic Glands. Lymphadenitis.—Inflammation of lymphatic glands results from the absorption of an irritant, usually bacterial or toxic, brought to the glands by the afferent lymphatics. These vessels may share in the inflammation and be the seat of lymphangitis, or they may show no evidence of the passage of the irritant. It is exceptional for the irritant to be carried to the gland in the blood-stream. A strain or other form of trauma is sometimes blamed for the onset of lymphadenitis, especially in the glands of the groin (bubo), but it is usually possible to discover some source of pyogenic infection which is responsible for the mischief, or to obtain a history of some antecedent affection such as gonorrhoea. It is possible that gonococci may lie latent in the inguinal glands for long periods, and only give rise to lymphadenitis if the glands be subsequently subjected to injury. The glands most frequently the seat of inflammation are those in the neck, axilla, and groin. The characters of the inflammation vary with the nature of the irritant. Sometimes it is mild and evanescent, as in the glandular enlargement in the neck which attends tonsillitis and certain other forms of sore throat. Sometimes it is more persistent, as in the enlargement vLich may be associated with adenoids, hypertrophied tonsils, carious teeth, eczema of the scalji, and otorrhoea; and it is probable that this indolent enlargement predisposes to tuberculous infection. A similar enlargement is met with in the axilla in cases of chronic interstitial mastitis, and in the groin as a result of chronic irritation about the external genitals. Sometimes the inflammation is of a more acute character, and the tendency is towards the formation of an abscess. This is illustrated in the axillary glands inflamed as a result of infected wounds of the fingers, in the femoral glands in infected wounds or purulent blisters on the foot, in the inguinal glands in gonorrhoea and soft chancre, and in the cervical glands in the severer forms of sore throat associated with dqihtheria and scarlet fever. The most acute glandular suppurations result from infection with streptococci. Superficial glands, when inflamed and suppurating, become enlarged, tender, fixed, and matted to one another. In the glands of the groin the suppurative process is often remarkably sluggish. Purulent foci form in the interior of the individual glands, and some time may elapse before the pus erupts through their respective capsules. In the deeply placed cervical glands,