THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 258 The coughing up of blood from the lungs is known as hcemoptysis-, vomiting of blood from the stomach as hoematemesis; the passage of black-coloured stools due to the presence of blood altered by digestion as melmna \ and the passage of bloody urine as hmniaturia. Hsemorrhage is known as arterial, venous, or capillary, according to the nature of the vessel from which it takes place. In arterial hsemorrhage the blood is bright red in colour, and escapes from the cardiac end of the divided vessel in forcible jets •synchronously with the systole of the heart. In very vascular parts—for example, the face—both ends of a divided artery bleed freely. The blood flowing from an artery may be dark in colour if the patient’s respiration is impeded. The flow is some- times continuous and not in jets when the heart’s action is weak and the blood tension low, or when the bleeding takes place into a deep wound and not directly on to the free surface. Venous bleeding is not pulsatile, but occurs in a continuous stream, which, although both ends often bleed, is more copious from the distal end of the vessel. The blood is dark red under ordinary conditions, but may be purplish, or even black, if the patient is becoming asphyxiated. When one of the large veins in the neck is wounded, the effects of respiration produce a rise and fall in the stream which may resemble arterial pulsation. Bleeding from the cardiac end of a varicose vein may be very copious. In capillary hsemorrhage, red blood escapes from numerous points on the surface of the wound in a slow, steady ooze. This form of bleeding is often serious in those who are the subjects of hsemophylia. In relation to the time at which it occurs, hsemorrhage is spoken of as primary, reactionary, and secondary. Primary hsemorrhage is that which immediately follows a wound of a blood-vessel. It is convenient to consider separately the treatment of primary hsemorrhage, as it occurs (1) in an accidentally inflicted wound, and (2) in the course of a surgical operation. Surgical Arrest of Accidental Hsemorrhage.—The most efficient means of temporarily controlling profuse hmmorrhage is by pressure applied with the finger, or with a pad of gauze, directly over the bleeding point. While this is maintained an assistant makes digital pressure, or applies a tourniquet, over the main vessel of the limb on the proximal side of the bleeding point. A useful emergency tourniquet may be improvised by folding a large handkerchief en cravatte, with a cork or piece of