629 SAECOMA. yielding of the thin, unresisting shell. The swelling may pulsate, and a l>ruit may be heard over it. The patient often complains of pain, which is aggravated by exertion and is worst at night. The pain is more severe before the tumour erupts on the periosteal surface. In advanced cases it may be impossible to differentiate between a periosteal and a central tumour. The soft parts over the tumour may for a long time preserve their normal appearance ; or they may become oedematous, and the subcutaneous venous network be evident through the skin. The local elevation of temperature over the tumour, which may amount to two degrees or more, is a point of diagnostic importance. The adjacent joint usually remains intact, although its move- ments may be impaired by the mere bulk of the tumour. Sometimes there is effusion into the cavity of the joint, or portions of tumour tissue may invade it. X-ray Appearances.—A central tumour shows expansion of the bone and partial or complete disappearance of the normal dark shadow, as a result of the replacement of bone by tumour tissue ; in a periosteal tumour, the appearances vary according to the amount and arrangement of bony material formed in its substance; there is usually marked irregularity in the outline of the bone. When the overlying soft parts are invaded, they become matted together and adherent to the skin, which is thinned out and finally sloughs. The tumour tissue then protrudes, fungates, and bleeds. Pathological fracture may be an early manifestation, especially if the tumour involves the shaft of the femur ca- humerus; it follows slight violence, and is unattended with much ecchymosis or swelling. The fracture rarely consolidates, although there is often an attempt at union by the formation of cartilaginous callus. Suppuration may take place in the soft parts over the tumour, especially when an exploratory puncture has been made without proper precautions. Enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands does not necessarily imi)ly that they have become infected with sarcoma, for the enlargement may dis- appear after removal of the primary growth. Actual infection of the glands, however, may occur. As the tumour progresses, there is evening pyrexia, the patient emaciates, becomes worn out with pain, want of sleep, and superadded septic infection, and finally succumb.s, with or without evidences of secondary growths. When secondary growths occur they are most fre- cjuently in the lung or pleura; but they may develop in any of