WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 229 great majority of bullet-wounds implicating joints remain aseptic, and the function of the joint is not impaired. “The presence of fluid in an articulation is not pathognomonic of joint injury, as it not infrequently occurs in connection with injuries of the shaft not implicating the epiphysis.” Blood-vessels.—Wounds of large blood-vessels are comparatively common. They are clean-cut sections or perforations when the vessels are directly struck, and oval perforations when hit tangentially. The small-bore bullet, however, is cajiable of causing such damage to the walls of an artery by the merest graze, that, although no actual opening is made into it at the time, sloughing of the part of the vessel so injured takes place later, and hremorrhage or a traumatic aneurysm is the result. If the vessel is a large one and 2>laced superticially or in one of the cavities of the body, haemorrhage is speedily fatal ; but when the blood cannot escape externally, and collects in the tissues, it may cause sufficient tension to arrest the bleeding, and a traumatic aneurysm results (Surgeon-General Stevenson). When an artery and its accom- panying vein are injure<l an aneurysmal varix develops. Bullet-wounds oi nerves are described on page 335. Head Injuries.—Surgeon-General Stevenson^ divides bullet-wounds of the head into (1) sca/p wounds 'with contusion of the skull, and (2) fractures. The former are due to the impact of a bullet travelling at a low velocity and iui2)inging very obliquely on the head. Even although tlie bone is not visibly damaged there may be marked symptoms of concussion, and in some cases small hfemorrhages and laceration of the brain result and give rise to symptoms of irritation or of compression. In these injuries tlie prognosis is always favourable. Gun-shot fractures are divided into [a] yutter fractures, in which a trench is [)loughed through the outer table and diploii, while the inner table is comminuted, small fragments sometimes being driven through the dura. {h) Penetratinej frachires, in wdiich there is only one aperture in the calvaria, and the bullet, not having sufficient impetus to carry it through the brain, lodges in it. The opening is large and irregular, and fragments of considerable size may be depressed or even driven into the brain, causing serious laceration of its substance. (c) Perforatinij fractures, which vary in character with the range at ■whicli the weapon is discharged. At close range very serious damage is inflicted, considerable portions of the skull and brain are sometimes blown away, and death is usuallj- immediate. At medium and long ranges, if the bullet strikes perpendicularly to the surface the apertures of entrance and exit are usually circular and clean-cut; if it strikes obliquely, the entrance wound is oval, with short thread-like fissures radiating from it, and the exit wound is larger and more irregular and portions of bone may be driven outwards. In either case the inner table is more widely shattered at the aperture of entrance, and the outer table at that of exit. In all varieties of fracture there are marked symptoms of brain injury, usually referable to the areas traversed by the bullet. Cerebral abscess and hernia cerebri are the most common complica- tions of gun-shot fractures. Even in the absence of brain symptoms, all cases in wdiich there is ' Official Report of the Surgical Cases noted in the South African War, 1890-1902.