SYPHILIS. 184 of inherited syphilis is denied by some observers, who affirm that when syphilitic infants prove contagious the disease has been really acquired at or soon after birth and is therefore not inherited. There is general agreement that the subjects of inherited syphilis cannot transmit the disease by inheritance to their offspring, and that although they very rarely acquire the disease de novo, it is quite possible for them to do so when exposed to infection in the ordinary way. Prognosis of Inherited Syphilis.—Although inherited syphilis is responsible for a large, but apparently diminishing, mortality in infancy, the subjects of this disease may grow up to be as strong and healthy as their neighbours. Hutchinson insists on the fact that there is very little bad health in the general community that can be attributed to inherited syphilis. Treatment.—An infant the subject of inherited syphilis should, if possible, be nursed by its mother, and failing this it should be fed by hand. On the first appearance of syphilitic manifestations it should be brought under the influence of mercury. This is best given as grey powder in half or one grain doses thrice daily; it may be mixed with powdered sugar, or, if digestive derangements arise, may be combined with bismuth or soda. As a rule the grey powder is remarkably well borne by infants, and if they continue to thrive under it, it should be given for from three to six months after all symptoms have disappeared. If the internal administration of mercury does not suit the infant, it may be replaced by inunction. The dilute oleate of mercury is rubbed into the sides of the chest and abdomen, or is applied on the flannel binder twice or thrice weekly. The local lesions are treated on the same lines as in the acquired disease. The general health should be improved in every possible direction; considerable benefit may be derived from the use of cod-liver oil, and from prepara- tions containing iron and calcium. The gummatous lesions are treated on the same lines as in the acquired disease, but it should be pointed out that in inherited syphilis they are frequently found to be less amenable to the influence of iodides, and dependence must largely be placed on measures calculated to im]jrove the general health. Surgical interference may be required in the destructive gummatous lesions of the nose, throat, larynx and bones, either with the object of arresting the spread of the disease, or of removing or alleviating the resulting deformities. In children suffering from keratitis, the eyes should be protected from the light by smoked or coloured glasses, and the pupils