DEFECTIVE UNION OF FRACTURES. 429 Treatment.—If it has not already been tried, tlie u.snal treatment for delayed union should be instituted, and if this fails recourse must be had to operation. The parts having been rendered bloodless, an incision is made to expose the fragments freely, and after removal of any intervening material and rawing of their surfaces, nails or wires are inserted to .secure accurate apposition. The use of aluminium plates fixed to the bone liy screw-nails is sometimes a more efficient means of keeping the fragments in jtosition. In certain cases dove-tailing the ends into one another, grafting bone, or enclosing the fragments in a ferrule of decalcified bone has been .successful. Fibrous Union.—Sometimes dense fibrous tissue forms between the fragments, constituting fibrous union. When the fragments are widely separated, as in the patella or olecranon ; when a large segment of a bone is shattered and the fragments lost, as in some compound fractures; or when a .sequestrum forms between the fragments, osseous union is obviously im- possible, and fibrous union all that can be hoped for. False Joint.—This is merely an exaggerated form of defective union. The ends of the bones become rounded, polished, and covered with a layer of cartilage. A firm capsule of fibrous tissue, lined by a layer of endothelium, secreting synovia-like fluid, binds them together and forms a veritable joint. 'Treatment is carried out on the same lines as for non-union, the pseudarthrosis beingexci.sed before the ends are fixed in apposition. Absorption of Callus.—Sometimes during an attack of some acute infective disease, especially one of the exanthemata, it may be weeks or even months after union has taken place, well-formed callus may be softened and absorbed. Tumours of Callus.—Tumours, such as chondromata and sarcomata, are liable to occur in callus, or at the seat of old fractures, but the evidence so far is inconclusive as to the cau.sal relationship of the injury to the new growth. They are treated on the .same lines as tumours occurring independently of fracture.