478 INJURIES OF ELBOW AND FOREARM. I Operative interference is sometimes necessary for ankylosis or locking of the joint after the fracture is united, or to relieve the ulnar nerve when it is involved in callus. Fractures op the Upper End of the Ulna. , Fracture of the olecranon process is a comparatively common injury in adults. It usually follows a fall on the flexed elbow, and is believed to result from the direct impact, supplemented by the traction of the triceps muscle. In a few cases it has been produced by muscular action alone. The line ^ of fracture usually passes through the tip of the process, less ' frequently through its middle, and but rarely through the base. It may be transverse, oblique, T- or V-shaped, but is rarely comminuted or compound (Fig. 132). Clinical Features.—As the fracture almost invariably im- plicates the articular surface of the bone, there is considerable swelling from effusion of blood into the joint. The power of extending the forearm is impaired, and other symptoms of fracture are present. The amount of displacement depends upon the level of the fracture, and the extent to which the aponeurotic expansion of the triceps is torn. As the fracture is usually near the tip, the displacement is generally comparatively slight, the prolongation of the fibres of insertion of the triceps on to the lateral and posterior parts of the process holding the small fragment in position. When the line of fracture is nearer the base, however, the contraction of the triceps tends to sei3arate the fragments widely, and a distinct gap, which is increased on flexing the elbow, may often be felt between them. The upper fragment may be palpated ; and if the elbow is passively extended, the fragments may be brought into apposition, and crepitus elicited. When the fracture is oblique and there is little displacement bony union may result, but in many cases the fragments are united only by fibrous tissue. Separation of the olecranon epiphysis is one of the rarest forms of epqihysial detachment (Poland). The upper fragment sometimes forms attachments to the shaft of the humerus, and this leads to stretching of the fibrous band between the fragments. Treatment.—Within recent years the tendency of surgical opinion has been towards operative treatment in fracture of the olecranon, particularly in young adults, where there is marked separation of the fragments. It is still an open question, however, whether the results after