13 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY, tuberculosis, acute osteomyelitis, and some other diseases with greater frequency and severity than those of more advanced years. In different races, localities, environments, and seasons, the pathogenic powers of certain organisms, such as those of ery- sipelas, diphtheria, and acute osteomyelitis, vary considerably. There is evidence for the statement that a mixed infection— that is, the introduction of more than one species of organism, for example, the tubercle bacillus and a pyogenic staphylococcus— increases the severity of the resulting disease. Even if one of the varieties gain the ascendancy, the poisons produced by the others so devitalise the tissue cells, and diminish their power of resistance, that the virulence of the most active organism is increased. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that the products of certain organisms antagonise one another—for exam^ile, an attack of erysipelas may effect the cure of a patch of tuberculous lupus. Lastly, it is not uncommon for micrococci and bacilli to invade the internal organs by the blood-stream in enormous numbers and with great rapidity during the period of extreme debility which shortly precedes death. Results of Bacterial Growth.—Some organisms, such as those of tetanus and erysipelas, and certain of the pyogenic bacteria, show little tendency to pass beyond the i)oint at which they gain an entrance to the body. Others, on the contrary,—for example, the tubercle bacillus and the organism of acute osteo- myelitis,—although frequently remaining localised to the seat of inoculation, tend to pass to distant parts, lodging in the capillaries of joints, bones, kidney, or lungs, and there producing their deleterious effects. Multiplication in the blood-stream does not occur to any great extent in the human subject. It is by the vital changes they bring about in the parts where they settle that micro-organisms disturb the health of the patient. In deriving their nourishment from the complex organic com- pounds in which they flourish, the organisms evolve, probably by means of a ferment, certain chemical products in the form of albumoses, peptones, alcohols, ethers, and acids; as well as certain gases, such as sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid, and marsh gas. These, and probably other more complex substances, the constitution of which is as yet unknown, are generically known as toxins. When these poisons are absorbed into the general circulation of the patient, they give rise to certain groups of symptoms—such as rise of temperature, associated circulatory