CLINICAL FEATURES OF ANEURYSM. 291 other hand, yields before the jiressure, so that the intervertebral discs or the costal cartilages may escape while the adjacent bones are destroyed. The skin over the aneurysm gradually becomes thinned and stretched, until finally a slough forms, and when it separates hmmorrhage takes place. Pain is a variable symptom. It may be due to the extreme tension in and around the aneurysm, and to the pressure exerted on sensitive structures, in which case it is of a constant, dull, boring character. When due to direct pressure on nerve trunks it is sharp and lancinating. Differential Diagnosis.—Aneurysm is to be diagnosed from other pulsatile swellings. Sometimes pulsation is transmitted from a large artery to a new growth, a mass of enlai’ged lymphatic glands, or an infiammatory swelling which lies in its vicinity; or a tumour may actually pulsate in virtue of its extreme vascularity, but in neither case is the pulsation expansile as in aneurysm—a most important point in differ- ential diagnosis. The swelling may, by appropriate manipula- tion, be moved from the artery in some cases and the pulsation ceases. Compression of the artery on the cardiac side of the swelling, although it arrests the pulsation, does not produce any diminution in the size or tension of the swelling, and when the pressure is removed the pulsation is restored immediately. Fluid tumours overlying an artery, such as cysts, abscesses, or enlarged bursie, may simulate aneurysm very closely. An apparent expansion may accompany the pulsation, but careful examination usually enables this to be distinguished from the marked expansion of an aneurysm. Compression of the artery makes no difference in the size or tension of the swelling. Vascular tumours, such as sarcomata and goitres, may yield an expansile pulsation, but they differ from an aneurysm in that they are not diminished in size by compression of the main artery, nor can they be emptied by pressure. A soft, whiffing bruit is sometimes to be detected in certain }>arts of these tumours. The exaggerated pulsation sometimes observed in a normal artery—for example, the “pulsating aorta” so often seen in women who suffer from dyspeptic symptoms—should not be mistaken for that of an aneurysm. Prognosis.—While an aneurysm may remain stationary for a long period, it may at any time undergo spontaneous cure. Natural cure is usually brought about by the formation in the aneurysm of laminated clot, which gradually increases in