THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 280 of direct pressure on the pelvic veins, such as a tumour, persistent constipation, or an ill-fitting truss, should be removed. Cardiac, renal, or pulmonary causes of venous congestion must also be treated, and the functions of the liver regulated. Severe forms of muscular exertion and prolonged standing or walking are to be avoided, and the patient may with benefit rest the limb in an elevated ^^osition for a few hours each day. To supjiort the distended vessels a closely woven silk or worsted stocking, or a light and porous form of elastic bandage, applied as a puttee, should be worn. These appliances should be put on before the patient leaves his bed in the morning, and should only be removed after he lies down again at night. In this way the vessels are never allowed to become dilated. Elastic stockings and bandages made entirely of indiarubber are to be avoided. In early and mild cases these measures are usually sufficient to relieve the patient’s discomfort. In aggravated cases, when the patient is suffering pain, when his occupation is interfered with by repeated attacks of phlebitis, or when there are large pouches on the veins, operative treatment is called for. The younger the patient the clearer is the indication to operate. It may be necessary to operate to enable a patient to enter any of the public services, even although the condition gives him no trouble. The operation of Trendelenburg is especially appropriate to cases in which the trunk of the internal saphena vein in the thigh is alone involved. It consists in exposing ,three or four inches of the vein in its upper part, applying a ligature at the upper and lower ends of the exposed portion, and after carefully tying all tributary branches, resecting this portion of the vein. It is important to include in the resection any large tributary near to the portion to be excised, to prevent it dilating and perpetuating the condition. When the varix is widespread, and especially if several trunks are implicated, it is better to remove several jJortions of the vein, each about three or four inches long, at intervals along its course. In severe cases the whole length of the varicose vessel may be excised. Mitchell, of Belfast, advises exposing the varices at numerous points by small incisions, and, after clamping the vein between two jaairs of forceps, cutting out the intervening portion. Bleeding is prevented, and the edges of the incisions brought into apposition by pressure with pads of gauze; and the limb is firmly bandaged from below upwards and kept in an elevated position. We have frequently employed this method with satisfactory results, but have found it advan-