287 PATHOLOGICAL ANEURYSM. invariably occurs on the head, and is usually met with in adolescents or young adults. The affected vessels slowly increase in size, and become characteristically tortuous, with narrowings and dilatations here and there. Grooves or gutters are frequently found in the bone underlying the dilated vessels. There is a constant loud bruit in the tumour, which greatly troubles the imtient and may interfere with sleej). There is no tendency either to natural cure or to rupture, but .severe, and even fatal, haemorrhage may follow a wound of the dilated vessels. The condition may be treated by excision or by electrolysis. In excision the hiemorrhage is controlled by an elastic tourni- quet applied horizontally round the head, or by ligature of the feeding trunks. In large tumours the bleeding may be formidable. In many cases electrolysis is to be preferred, and is performed in the same way as for nrevus. The positive pole is placed in the centre of the tumour, while the negative is introduced into the main affluents one after another. ANEURYSM. An aneurysm is a sac communicating with an artery, and containing huid or coagulated blood. Two types of aneurysm are met with—the pathological, and the traumatic. It is convenient to describe in this section also certain conditions in which there is an abnormal communication between an artery and a vein—arterio-venous aneurysm. Patholooical Aneurysm. In this class are included such aneurysms as are produced by gradual dilatation of an artery, resulting from weakening of its coats, combined, in most cases, with a loss of elasticity in the walls and a marked increase in the arterial tension. In the majority of cases the weakening of the artery and the diminution of the normal ela.sticity of its wall are due to atheroma. In other cases the vessel wall is softened by arteritis—especially the embolic form—so that it yields before the pressure of the blood. Repeated and sudden raising of the arterial tension, as a result, for example, of violent muscular efforts or of frequent excessive indulgence in alcohol, plays an important part in