767 CLUB-HAND. the capacity of extending the fingers may be deficient or absent. If, on still further flexing the fingers, they can be voluntarily extended towards the point from which they are flexed, recovery can be confidently predicted (Tubby and Jones). Considerable improvement may result from fixing the hand in a splint in an attitude of dorsal flexion (hyper-extension) for a period of one to two years. The splint is removed at frequent intervals to allow of massage and other treatment. Congenital Contracture of the Wrist—Club-hand Proper.— This very rare deformity corresponds to congenital club-foot, and probably arises in the same way. The appearances resemble to a certain extent those of paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve. The hand and fingers are rigidly flexed to the ulnar side, so that the patient is incapable of moving them. Treatment is carried out ou the same lines as for club-foot. Spontaneous Subluxation of the Wrist.—This is an acquired Fig. 309.—Congenital Contraction of Ring and Little Fingers. deformity, and is met with between the ages of fifteen and twenty- five, chiefly in females who follow trades which entail hard manual labour. The gradual relaxation of ligaments allows the flexors to displace the carpus towards the palm, while the lower ends of the bones of the forearm project on the dorsum. The usefulness of the hand is greatly impaired. The patient must give up her occupation tor a time and persevere with a course of massage, electricity, and exercises. Congenital dislocation of the wrist is excessively rare. Deformities of the Fingers.—Congenital dislocations of various forms are met with, but are of little clinical inqiortance as they interfere but slightly with the usefulness of the finger aflected. Congenital lateral deviation of the yi/tu/rtiii/es is more un- sightly than disabling; it is met with chiefly in the thumb, in which the terminal phalanx may deviate to the radial or to the ulnar side. The deviation disappears on flexion.