360 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. in male adults over forty years of age, and is usually situated on the back between the shoulders. When it occurs on the face or anterior part of the neck it is especially dangerous, because of the greater risk of general infection and septicaunia. A carbuncle is to be differentiated from a syphilitic gumma and from anthrax pustule. Treatment.—Pain is to be relieved by full doses of opium or codein. Opium is specially indicated when sugar is present in the urine. The diet should be liberal and easily digested, and alcoholic and other stimulants may be of service in tiding the patient over the critical period of the disease. Locally, carbolic fomentations are employed until suppuration commences. If the patient is able to stand an operation, the best procedure is to excise the carbuncle, cutting all round it and down to the deep fascia, swabbing the wound with pure carbolic acid, and packing with gauze. The illness is thereby much shortened, suffering is relieved, and the risk of extension and general infection diminished. When the resulting wound becomes covered with healthy granula- tions, Thiersch grafts may be applied over it. When excision is contra-indicated, the next best procedure is to make several incisions across the carbuncle in different directions so that the resulting wound presents a stellate appear- ance ; to cut away the undermined skin, remove the slough, and rub pure carbolic acid into all the exposed tissues, and then pack with iodoform gauze or worsted. In very feeble patients these operations are inadmissible, and treatment is restricted to applying antiseptic fomenta- tions, unless the pain is unbearable, in which case, after freezing the skin, a simple incision may be made to relieve tension and allow of discharge. Acute Abscesses of the Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue in Young Children.—In young infants, abscesses are not infrequently met with scattered over the trunk and limbs, and are probal)ly the result of infection of the sebaceous glands from dirty under- clothing. The abscesses should be opened, and the further spread of infection prevented by thorough cleansing of the skin and by the use of clean under-linen. Similar abscesses are met with on the scalp in association with eczema, impetigo, and pediculosis. Veldt Sores.—These have become well known owing to their prevalence among the troops during the recent war in South Africa. The sore usually originates in an abrasion of the epidermis, such as a sun blister, the bite of an insect, or a small wound or scratch. A pustule forms and bursts, and a brownish-