489 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. maximum tenderness is usually over the radio-humeral joint, the external lateral and orbicular ligaments being tho.se most frequently damaged. Effusion takes place into the synovial cavity, and a soft, puffy swelling fills up the natural hollows about the joint. The bony points about the elbow retain their normal relationship to one another—a feature which aids in determining the diagnosis between a sprain and a dislocation or fracture. In children it is often difficult to distinguish between a sprain and the partial separation of an epiphysis. Sprains of the elbow are treated on the same lines as similar lesions elsewhere—by massage and movement. The condition known as tennis elbow is characterised by severe pain over the insertion of the pronator radii teres during the act of pronation, and is due to stretching or tearing of the fibres of that tendon, and of the adjacent intermuscular septa. A similar injury— sculle')^s sprain—occurs in rowing men from feathering the oars. The treatment consists in massage and movement, care being taken to avoid the movements which produced the injury. In persistent cases blistering may be useful. Fractures op the Forearm. The shafts of the bones of the forearm may be broken separately, but it is much more common to find both broken together. Fracture of both bones may result from a direct blow, from a fall on the hand, or from their being bent over a fixed object. The line of fracture is usually transverse, both bones giving way about the same level. The common situation is near the middle of the shafts. In children, greenstick fracture of both bones is a frequent result of a fall on the hand—this indeed being one of the commonest examples of greenstick fracture met with (Fig. 143). The displacement varies widely, depending partly upon the force causing the fracture, partly on the level at which the bones break and on the muscles which act on the respective fragments. It is common to find an angular displacement of both bones to the radial or to the ulnar side. In other cases the four broken ends impinge upon the interosseous space, and may become united to one another, preventing the movements of pronation and supination. There may be shortening from overriding of fragments. When the radius is broken above the insertion of the