TUBERCULOSIS. 152 Another metliod of treatment which is only applicable in abscesses of moderate size is by incision of the abscess and removal of the tuberculous tissue in its ivall with the sharp spoon. An incision is made which will give free access to the interior of the abscess, so that outlying pockets or recesses may not be overlooked. Small incisions are only justifiable when an extensive scar would be disfiguring. After removal of the pus, the walls of the abscess are thoroughly scraped with the ordinary Volkmann spoon or with Barker’s flushing spoon, to get rid of the tuberculous granulation tissue with which they are lined. In using the spoon care must be taken that its sharp edge does not perforate the wall of a vein or other important structure. Any debris which may adhere to the walls is removed by rubbing with dry gauze. The oozing of blood from the raw surface left after scraping is arrested by packing the cavity for a few minutes with gauze. After the packing is re- moved, the walls are painted with pure carbolic acid, and iodoform powder is rubbed into the raw surface. If the abscess is so situated that its cavity can be obliterated by pressure, and if there is no suspicion of septic infection, the wound may be stitched up. If, on the other hand, there is fear of a mixed infection, it is safer to treat it by the open method, packing the cavity with iodoform worsted, which is renewed at intervals as the cavity heals from the bottom. When the skin over the abscess is red, thin, and about to give way, as is frequently the case when the abscess is situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, any portion of skin which is under- mined and infected with tubercle should be removed with the scissors at the same time that the abscess is incised. In abscesses treated by the open method, when the cavity has become lined with healthy granulations, it may be closed by secondary sutures, or, if the granulating surface is flush with the skin, healing may be hastened by skin-grafting. If the tuberculous abscess does not come under treatment until after it has burst and left a sinus, the treatment varies with its situation and extent; sinuses in accessible situations should be excised or laid open, scrajied, and made to heal from the bottom by the open method; more deeply placed and exten- sive sinuses, such as result from the bursting of a psoas abscess, do not lend themselves to such treatment. An attempt may be made to pack them with iodoform gauze or with gauze wrung out of pure carbolic acid. We have observed benefit in such sinuses from the daily application of the X-rays.