FRACTURES. 415 of the femur immediately above the condyles, where flexion of the knee, by relaxing the calf muscles, permits of reduction. Massage and Movement in the Treatment of Fractures.— Until within recent years fractures were invariably treated by complete immobilisation of the injured limb in a splint or other form of rigid apparatus, until firm osseous union had taken jflace. The result of the prolonged fixation of the limb was that in many cases the muscles became atrophied, adhesions formed in joints and tendon sheaths, the restoration of function was much delayed, and in some cases permanent stiffness resulted. Lucas-Championniere, in 1895, was the first to advocate the treatment of fractures by massage and movement, and the discarding of rigid splints and other retentive appliances. The measures adopted vary according to the nature and seat of the fracture, but in general terms it may be stated that after the fracture has been reduced, the ends of the broken bone are carefully retained in position by the hands of an assistant, and gentle massage is applied by the surgeon. The parts on the proximal side of the injured area are first gently stroked upwards to empty the veins and lymphatics, and to disperse the effused blood and serum. The rubbing process is then applied to the swollen area, and gradually extended down over the seat of the fracture and into the parts beyond. In this way the circulation through the damaged segment of the limb is improved, the veins are emptied of blood, and the removal of effused fluids is stimulated. The neighbouring joints are gently moved, and the patient is encouraged to contract the muscles voluntarily, care being taken all the while that the broken ends of the bone are not displaced. After the rubbing has been continued for from fifteen to twenty minutes, the limb is placed in a comfortable position, and retained there by pillows,, sand-bags, or, if found more convenient, by a light form of movable splint. In fixing the limb in position it is necessary to avoid constricting it in any way that will interfere with the circulation. The massage is repeated every day, the sittings being gradually extended to twenty or thirty minutes, while the rubbing and the movements are carried out more energetically as time proceeds. The patient is encouraged at each sitting to move his joints voluntarily and against resistance. After an interval varying with the nature of the fracture all retentive appliances may be removed, but the massage should be con- tinued until consolidation of the callus is complete. The value of this procedure is greatest in fractures in the