FEVERS DUE TO PYOGENIC BACTERIA. 69 force the patient has to carry him over the j)eriod during which he is eliminating the poison already in circulation. It has been suggested by Watson-Cheyne that the anti- streptococcic serum should be injected as a prophylactic before operation in cases where there is reason to fear streptococcal infection, and where absolute asepsis cannot be ensured, as in the mouth or rectum. Treatment.—The same measures are adopted as in the treat- ment of sapraemia, but they are less likely to be successful owing to the organisms having entered the circulation. Where possible the primary focus of infection should be dealt with. Pyaemia is a form of septic poisoning characterised by the development of secondary foci of sui)puration in different parts of the body by metastasis. Toxins are thus introduced into the blood, not only at the primary seat of infection, but also from each of these metastatic collections. Like septicaemia, this condition is due to pyogenic bacteria, the streptococcus pyogenes being the commonest organism found. The primary infection is usually in a surface wound, but cases occur in which the point of entrance of the bacteria is not discoverable. The dissemina- tion of the organisms takes place through the medium of septic emboli which form in a thrombosed vein in the vicinity of the original lesion, and breaking loose are carried thence in the blood-stream. These emboli lodge in the minute vessels of the lungs, spleen, liver, kidneys, pleura, brain, synovial membranes, or cellular tissue, and the bacteria they contain give rise to inflammatory changes which end in suppuration. Secondary abscesses are thus formed in those parts, and these in turn may be the starting-point of new emboli which give rise to fresh areas of pus formation. The organs above named are the commonest situations of pyseraic abscesses, but these may also occur in the bone marrow, the substance of muscles, the heart and pericardium, lymphatic glands, subcutaneous tissue, or, in fact, in any tissue of the body. Septic organisms circulating in the blood are prone to lodge on the valves of the heart and give rise to endocarditis. Clinical Features.—Before antiseptic surgery was practised, pyaemia was a common complication of surgical wounds. In the present day it is not only infinitely less common, but appears also to be of a less severe type. Its rarity and its mildness may be related as cause and effect, because it was formerly found that pyaemia contracted from a pyaemic patient was more virulent than that from any other source. In contrast with sapraemia and septicaemia, pyaemia is late of