623 OSTEOMA. chondromata which have undergone ossification ; they usually cease growing when the skeleton reaches maturity. They are met with chiefly in the vicinity of the most active epiphyses— that is, in the region of the knee, shoulder, and wrist; are often symmetrical, and vary greatly in size. They originate from the ossifying junctions of the long bones, and as the shaft increases in length may come to lie at some distance from the epiphysis. They may also grow from flat bone.s, such as the scapula and pelvis. Their anatomical characters are well brought out by the X-rays. From the fact that the disease is usually inherited, and that, in addition to the multiple tumours, there are often an arrest of growth and curvature of several of the long bones, it is assumed that there is a widespread disturbance in the development of the skeleton dating from intra-uterine life. There is no indication for surgical interference, but if any particular tumour is a source of inconvenience it is easily removed by chiselling through its neck. Diffuse Osteoma, Leontiasis Ossea.—This rare disease was de- scribed by Virchow, and named leontiasis ossea because of the peculiar disfigurement to which it gives rise. It usually com- mences as a diffuse overgrowth of the ujjper jaws in young adults. These bones are enlarged in all directions and project as prominent bosses on the face, and the nasal fossse and the maxillary and frontal sinuses become filled u[) with bone, which encroaches also on the orbital cavities. In addition to the hideous deformity, the patient may suffer from blocking of the nose, loss of smell, and protru.sion of the eyes, sometimes followed by loss of .sight. The disease may spread to the malar and frontal bones, the vault of the skull, and to the lower jaw. The base of the skull is usually exempt. The disease is of slow progress and may become arrested; life may be prolonged for many years, or may be terminated by brain troubles or other intercurrent affections. In certain cases it is po.ssible to remove some of the more aggressive of the bony masses. A less aggressive form of the disease is sometimes met with confined to the upper jaw on one side, and in a case of this variety, under our own observation, the disfigurement, which was the only subject of complaint, was eliminated by paring away the excess of bone by means of a chisel. A remarkable form of unilateral hypertrophy and diffuse osteoma of the skull has been ob.served by Jonathan Hutchinson and Alexis Thomson following very accurately the distribution of the fifth nerve on one side.