544 INJURIES IN REGION OF ’KNEE AND LEG. A careful watch must be kept on the circulation of the limb during the first few days, lest it be interfered with by the pressure of the apparatus. In a considerable number of cases these means of retaining the fragments in apposition prove ineffectual, and it is necessary to have recourse to operative measures, mechanically securing the fragments by nails, screws, or wire sutures, after exposing the seat of fracture. Such operations entail opening the cavity of the joint, and the occurrence of septic infection may prove disastrous. Division of the tendo Achillis is not to be recommended as a means of combating the backward tilting of the lower fragment. In all cases the retentive apparatus must be worn for about six or eight weeks, but movement and massage should be employed as soon as possible, as persistent stiffness of the knee is one of the most troublesome sequelae of these injuries. Compound and complicated fractures are dealt with on the general principles governing the treatment of such injuries. Amputation may become necessary should gangrene ensue from injury of the popliteal vessels, or if septic complications threaten the life of the patient. Operative interference may be called for to rectify deformities resulting from mal-union. After an epiphysial separation the growth of the limb is sometimes, although not always, interfered with. Feactuees of the Uppee End of the Tibia. Fracture of the head of the tibia is a comparatively rare injury. It may result from a direct blow, such as the kick of a horse, or from indirect forms of violence. The line of fracture may be transverse or oblique. Occasionally the lower fragment is impacted into the upjier and causes comminution. Transverse fracture of the head of the fibula sometimes accompanies fracture of the head of the tibia, and there is always considerable effusion into the knee-joint. One or other of the tuberosities may be chipped off by forcible adduction or abduction at the knee. The ordinary clinical features of fracture are well marked, and the diagnosis is easy. From some unexplained reason this fracture usually takes a very long time, sometimes several months, to consolidate. Separation of the upper epiphysis of the tibia, which includes the tongue-like process for the tubercle (Fig. 191), and the facet for the fibula, is also rare. It usually occurs