PREDISPOSITION TO TUBERCULOSIS. 143 the patient’s power of resisting the invasion of the virus is abnormally low. In any case, with regard to the etiology of tuberculosis, this predisposition is to be looked upon as a factor second in importance only to the ijresence of the bacilli them- selves. In some cases the predisposition is inherited, in others it is acquired. Those who inherit the predisposition u-sually belong to families in which the- disease is specially rife, and although as children they may have all the appearance of being healthy and even robust, if exposed to infection they are much more liable to contract tuberculosis than are members of families in which the disease is unknown. The inherited predisposition dates from the commencement of life, and only terminates with it. Children are very seldom born with tuberculous lesions, and in the recorded cases of congenital tuberculosis there has almost always been tuberculous disease in the placenta. There is abundant evidence that the common diseases of infancy and childhood,—such, for example, as whooping-cough, measles, influenza, bronchial catarrh, broncho-pneumonia, and rickets,—by impairing the general health and lowering the resist- ing jjowers of the individual, exert an important influence in producing an acquired predisposition to tuberculosis. Tuber- culous afiections frequently date from an attack of one or other of these illnesses, the inflamed and catarrhal condition of the respiratory and other mucous membranes doubtless favouring the occurrence of tuberculous infection. Conflnement in crowded dwellings, schoolrooms, workshops, and factories is also injurious, as it entails the breathing of impure air which may be contaminated with tubercle bacilli. Insufficient and improper feeding, by lowering the general vitality and by leading to impairment of digestion and catarrhal changes in the alimentary mucous membranes, has also a prejudicial influence. In practice it is not uncommon to meet with a combination of the above-mentioned predisposing factors, all cons2)iring to render the soil more favourable to the growth of tubercle. Any tissue whose vitality has been lowered by injury or disease furnishes a favourable nidus for the lodgment and growth of tubercle bacilli. The injury or disease, however, is to be looked ujion as determining the localisation of the tuberculous lesion rather than as an essential factor in its causation. In a jierson, for example, in whose blood tubercle bacilli are circulating and reaching every tissue and organ of the body, the occurrence of tuberculous disease in a particular part may be