INJURIES PRODUCED BY ELECTRICITY. 239 but is liable to recur if the parts are again exposed to the influence of the rays. Sometimes the hair is lost without any other lesion; it may begin to grow again in a few weeks, or the loss may be permanent. The ulcerative form is met with in patients subjected to the rays for a prolonged period, and usually begins within a week of the exjjosure, although in some cases the first signs have been delayed for two or three weeks. The onset is marked by redness of the skin and slight pain. In a few days a blister containing sero-purulent fluid rises, and after bursting leaves a raw surface which is extremely painful. A slough slowly forms and gradually increases in size, spreading through the deep fascia and exposing the muscle. The prominent features of this form are the extreme slowness with which the sloughs separate,—the process sometimes occupying several months,—and the severity of the pain, which usually calls for the administration of o})iates. The raw surface left after the separation of the slough is very slow to heal, and during the process fresh patches of necrosis may appear. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as in other forms of burns. When it is practicable, recovery may be hastened by excising the slough and applying Thiersch grafts over the raw area. Electrical burns usually occur in those who are engaged in industrial undertakings where powerful electrical currents are employed. The lesions—which vary from a slight superficial scorching to complete charring of parts—are most evident at the points of entrance and exit of the current, the intervening tissues apparently escaping injury. The more superficial degrees of electrical burns differ from those produced by heat in being almost painless, and in healing very slowly, although as a rule they remain dry and aseptic. The more severe forms are attended with a considerable degree of shock, which is not only more profound, but also lasts much longer than the shock in an ordinary burn of corre.sponding severity. The parts at the point of entrance of the current are charred to a greater or less depth. The eschar is at first dry and crisp, and is surrounded by a zone of pallor. For the first thirty-six to forty-eight hours there is comparatively little sutier- ing, but at the end of that time the parts become exceedingly painful. In a majority of cases, in spite of careful purification, a slow form of moist gangrene sets in, and the slough spreads both in area and in depth, until the muscles and often the large