TUBEECULOSIS. 142 a child, may present the appearances of even robust health. At any subsequent period of life, however, tuberculous disease may make its a})pearance in some tissue of the body—for example, in a bone or joint, in the kidney or testicle, or in the membranes of the brain. More than one tissue may be infected either simultaneously of in succession, "without any external evidence of the transference of the bacilli from one part of the body to another. Many tuberculous patients are to be regarded as possessing in their bronchial glands, or elsewhere, an internal store of bacilli, to which the existing disease owes its origin, and from which similar outbreaks of tuberculosis may originate in the future. It is probable that in some cases the tubercle bacilli may effect an entrance through the mucous membrane of the respiratory tract directly into the blood-vessels, and thus into the circulating blood, by means of which they may be carried to any part of the body. The alimentary mucous membrane, especially that of the small intestine, is exposed to infection by swallowed sputum and by food materials, such as milk, containing tubercle bacilli. The organisms may lodge in the mucous membrane and cause tuberculous ulceration, or they may be carried through the wall of the bowel into the lacteals, along which they pass to the mesenteric glands. There they may become arrested and give rise to tuberculous disease of the glands; or they may either become active at a subsequent period, or may lie dormant in- definitely. It may hapjjen that the bacilli from a tuberculous mesenteric gland are carried by way of the receptacle of the chyle and the thoracic duct into the general circulation, and in this way infect distant parts of the body, or give rise to general tuberculosis. In some cases the transference of the infective material is more direct—for example, when a softened mesenteric gland erupts into a contiguous vein and so infects the circu- lating blood, or erupts on to the peritoneum covering the mesentery and sets up a tuberculous j^eritonitis. Predisposition to Tuberculosis.—That some individuals are more prone to become the subjects of tuberculosis than others is evident from the fact that while under the existing conditions of civilised life all are exposed to the infection, only a compara- tively small number acquire the disease. The precise conditions which favour the entrance, lodgment, and growth of the bacilli in those predisjjosed to the disease are somewhat uncertain. It may be that there is some peculiarity of the tissues which renders them a specially suitable soil for the organisms, or that