760 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. As the disease progresses, the toe is drawn towards the sole and becomes permanently hexed—hallux Jlexus—and any attempt at dorsi-hexion is attended with pain. The condition is met with chiehy in adolescent males, is very commonly associated with hat-foot, and is then usually bilateral. The patient’s gait, in addition to having the characteristic features associated with hat-foot, is peculiarly wooden and inelastic, as instead of rising on the balls of the toes with each step, he puts down and. lifts the sole as if it were a rigid plate. The pain is increased by walking. The boot'tends to become worn away at the point of the toes and at the pos- terior edge of the heel, and the usual crease across the dorsum is absent. On dissection it is found, especially iu hallux hexus, that the inferior portions of the lateral ligaments are contracted, and that the cartilage of that part of the head of the meta- tarsal which is exposed on the dorsum is con- verted into fibrous tissue. Bony ankylosis has not been observed. Treatment.—In early cases, great benefit results from measures directed towards the cure of the accompanying flat-foot. If the joint of the big toe is painful and sensitive, absolute rest should be enforced until these symptoms have disappeared. The patient must wear a properly shaped boot with a pliable sole, and be instructed how to manipulate and exercise the toe. Later, when the toe is already rigid or flexed towards the sole, the above treatment is not feasible. It is best to correct the deformity either by wrenching the toe into the dorsi-flexed jjosition, under anaesthesia, and fixing it with a plaster of Paris bandage; or when this is impossible, by excising the articular end of the meta- tarsal bone. When these measures are impracticable, the patient’s sufferings may be relieved by inserting in the boot a rigid metal plate which will prevent any attempt at dorsi-flexion in walking. Hammer - toe.—This is a flexion-contracture which usually involves the second, but sometimes also other toes. It is sometimes congenital and inherited, but usually develops about puberty, and is then, as a rule, bilateral. The first phalanx is dorsi-flexed, the second is 2Jlantar-flexed, while the third varies in its attitude, sometimes being in line Fig. 304.—Hammer-tos.