FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 527 by the muscles inserted into the great trochanter and upper end of the shaft. On applying the various tests the great trochanter is found displaced upwards, and there is a marked antero-posterior broadening of the trochanteric region, especially in tlie impacted variety, and the ilio-tibial band is relaxed. On pressing the fingers into the outer part of Scarpa’s triangle, a bony mass consisting of the broken fragments may be felt, and is tender on pressure. In non-impacted cases unnatural mobility with crepitus may be elicited. Impaction, by masking the symptoms, adds to the difficulty of diagnosis, but not to the same extent as in fracture of the narrow part of the neck. Prognosis.—The risks to life in the aged are similar to those of intra-capsular fracture. In youths and healthy adults the chief danger is that the limb may be shortened and its function thereby impaired. In children it may be followed by coxa vara. As the periosteum and cervical ligaments which transmit the blood-vessels to the short fragment are intact, bony union is the rule. There is always, however, considerable thickening in the region of the trochanter due to displaced fragments and callus, and in a certain number of cases, even with the greatest care in treatment, there is a varying degree of shortening and eversion of the limb. In cases where the outer fragment lies in front of the inner there is permanent inversion. Treatment. — As this fracture usually occurs in rolmst patients, there is no danger from prolonged immobilisation in bed; and as union without deformity can be attained in no other way this is always advisable. When the shortening and eversion are excessive, they should be completely corrected under aniesthesia before the retentive apparatus is api)lied, any impaction which exists being undone. When the deformity resulting from impaction is slight, however, it is best to leave it, as it facilitates speedy and firm union. The same retentive appliances are used as in fracture through the narrow part of the neck ([). 524). Fracture of the great trochanter occurring apart from fracture of the neck results from direct violence. The trochanter is displaced by the gluteal muscles, causing broadening of the outer aspect of the hip. In young persons the epiphysis of the great trochanter may be separated, but this is very rare. The treatment consists in fixing the fragments in position by strips of adhesive plaster, or by pegs driven in through the skin. Fracture immediately below the lesser trochanter may be