585 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. While the occurrence of purely periosteal suppuration is described by most authors, we are of opinion that the disease always originates in the marrow. When there is marked absorption and destruction of bone at the ossifying junction, the epiphysis is liable to be separated. The separation—epiphi/xiolysis—usually takes place through the ossifying junction, and the surfaces of the diaphysis and epii)hysis are opposed to each other by irregular eroded surfaces bathed with jms. The sei)arated epiphysis may be maintained in contact with the diaphysis by the periosteum, but when this has been detached by the formation of pus beneath it, the epiphysis is liable to be dis})laced by muscular action or by .some movement of the limb. Exce})t in cases where the epiphysis is displaced, the epiphysial cartilage usually remains intact, and continues its bone-forming functions. Whei’e it has been seriously damaged, however, the further growth of the bone in length may be interfered with. When intra-articular, as in the head of the femur, the whole epiphysis may die and separate as a sequestrum. The adjacent joint may become filled with a serous effusion, which, on examination, is usually found to be sterile. When })us erupts into the joint, the lesion assumes the characters of a purulent arthritis, which, from its frequency during the earlier years of life, has been called the acute arthritis of infants. In the small bones of the carpus and tarsus, the associated joints are usually infected from the outset. In fiat bones, such as the skull, scapula, or ilium, suppuration may occur on both asjjects of the bone. Clinical features.—The constitutional symptoms, which are due to the associated toxaemia, vary considerably in different cases. In mild cases they may be so slight as to escape recognition ; in very severe cases the patient may succumb before there is any evidence of the localisation of the staphylococci in the bones. In average cases, the temperature rises rai)idly with a rigor and runs an irregular course with morning remis.sions, there is mai’ked general illness accompanied by headache, vomiting, and sometimes delirium and convulsions. The first local manifestations are })ain and tenderness in relation to one of the long bones the pain may be so severe as to prevent sleep and to cause the child to cry out; tenderness on pressure enables one to identify the seat of the lesion, and is therefore of great diagnostic value. At a later stage there is swelling in the region of the ossifying junction, oedema, and dilatation of the superficial veins.