TALIPES EQUINO-VAEUS. 745 pei’oneus longus and brevis. Tubby and Jones recommend the 2jlan of sijlitting the tendo Achillis throughout its entire length, and the gastrocnemius as well, so making a new muscle, the lower end of which is attached to the distal end of the }:)eronei tendons. If the i^aralysis is more widely distributed, and the ankle and tarsal joints are hail-like, it is better to ankylose the calcaneo-astragaloid and ankle-joints. It may be necessary to divide the plantar fascia and other struc- tures which have undergone secondary shortening. The after-treatment is of great im- portance, and consists in massage, douch- ing, exercises, and electric stimulation of the muscles. As using the limb hastens the restoration of function, the j^atient should be got on to his feet as soon as l^ossible. Talijjes equino - varus resulting from spastic paralysis is com^Jaratively rare. Certain groups of muscles—the j^lantar hexors and invertors—are the seat of a persistent spasm which gradually merges into contracture, with the result that the foot is distorted and assumes the equino-varus attitude (Fig. 284). The heel is markedly drawn up, the anterior jjart of the foot is adducted and in- verted at the mid-tarsal joint. The muscles are tense and rigid, and the tendon reflexes exaggerated. The con- dition is frequently bilateral, and is often associated with other deformities of the lower limb and with a characteristic s^jastic gait. Considerable inq)rovement may be brought about by division or lengthening of the tendons of the shortened muscles. In severe cases it may be necessary to resect a portion of the tarsus or to remove the foot by am^mtation. The occurrence of jjure varus without equinus is so exceptional as not to call for se2>arate description. Pes Equinus.—This deformity, in which the foot is in the 2>osition of j)lantar flexion with the heel drawn up and the toes pointed, is nearly always acquired as a result either of infantile Fig. 292.—Infantile Para- lysis of Right Lower Ex- tremity in a girl ret. 15. The limb is short and wasted, and the foot is in the position of equino- varus.