386 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. the line of the intercostal nerves, and is excited by movements of the chest, as in coughing, or by any bodily exertion. There is often marked tenderness. A similar affection is met with in the shoulder, especially on waking from sleep. There is acute pain on attempting to abduct the arm, and there may be locaUsed tenderness in the region of the circumflex nerve. It would appear that these conditions, which have hitherto been regarded as specially affecting muscles, are in many cases dependent on a local nerve lesion such as neuritis or on some affection of the adjacent joints. Treatment.-—The general treatment is concerned with the diet, attention to the stomach, bowels, and kidneys, and with the correction of any gouty or rheumatic tendencies which may be present. The patient must persevere with movements and exer- cises, excepting those which specially excite the pain, and when heated must avoid exposure to cold. Great benefit may be derived from massage, and from the use of electricity, especially in cases in which the nerves are involved. In severe cases of lumbago, exercises are out of the question until the excessive pain and helplessness have been overcome by the application of heat, as by a hot-bottle or mustard poultice. Cupping or needling, or, in exceptional cases, hypodermic injections of antipyrin or morphin may be called for. To prevent relapses of lumbago, the patient must take systematic exercises of all kinds, especially those which bring out the movements of the spinal column and hips. Contracture of Muscles.—Permanent shortening of muscles may result from the prolonged approximation of its points of attachment, or from structural changes in their substance pro- duced either by injury or by disease. It is a frequent accom- paniment, and sometimes a cause of certain deformities, in the treatment of which division of the contracted muscles may be an essential step. An aggravated form of contracture sometimes follows upon the prolonged anaemia of muscles, such as is caused by tight bandaging or the use of the elastic tourniquet— Volkmann’s ischoemic paralysis. In the upper extremity the muscles of the forearm undergo degeneration, and by contracting cause a claw- like deformity of the hand and fingers. The tendons of the contracted muscles may require to be lengthened. Myositis.—Various forms of inflammation of pyogenic origin are met with in muscle, most frequently in relation to i^ysemia and to typhoid fever. These may result in overgrowth of the