548 INJUEIES IN EEGION OF KNEE AND LEG. Very rarely the fibula is separated from the tibia at both ends (total dislocation) and displaced upwards. Bennett, of Dublin, has pointed out that in some persons the upper end of the fibula does not reach the facet on the tibia—a condition which might be mistaken for a dislocation. Injuries of the Semilunar Cartilages. The semilunar cartilages are two crescentic plates which lie upon the upper end of the tibia, and serve to deepen the articular surface for the condyles of the femur. Each cartilage is firmly attached to the tibia by its anterior and •posterior ends, and, through the medium of the coronary liga- ments, is loosely attached along its peripheral, convex edge to the head of the tibia, the internal cartilage being connected also to the cap.sular ligament of the joint. The tendon of the popliteus muscle intervenes between the external cartilage and the capsule. The central, concave edges of the cartilages are thinned out and are unattached. Owing to the looseness of their attachments, the cartilages enjoy a certain limited range of movement within the joint, passing backwards during flexion, and forwards again when the limb is extended. While the limb is partially flexed, a slight degree of rotation of the leg at the knee is possible, and during this movement the cartilages glide from side to side. Any abnormal laxity of the ligaments of the joint may render the cartilages unduly mobile, so that they are liable to be displaced from comparatively slight ■ causes, and when so displaced it is not uncommon for one or other of the cartilages to be torn by being nipjied between the femur and the tibia. It is convenient to consider these “ internal derangements of the knee-joint ” separately, according to whether the cartilage is merely abnormally mobile, or is actually lacerated. Mobile Cartilage—Displacement of Internal Semilunar Cartilage (Fig. 195).—The internal semilunar cartilage ex- hibits undue mobility much more frequently than the external, and the condition is usually met with in adult males who engage much in athletics, or who follow an employment which entails working in a kneeling or squatting position for long periods, ivith the toes turned outwards—for example, coal-miners. The internal lateral ligament, and through it the coronary ligament, is thus gradually stretched, so that the cartilage becomes less securely anchored, and is rendered liable to be displaced towards the interior of the joint during some sudden