THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 302 when the swelling is of considerable size. They consist in a pulsatile swelling—sometimes in the episternal notch, but usually towards the right side of the sternum—with an increased area of dulness on percussion. With the X-rays a dark shadow is seen corresponding to the swelling. Pain is usually a promi- nent symptom, and is largely referable to the pressure of the aneurysm on the vertebral column or the sternum, causing erosion of these bones. Pressure on the thoracic veins or on the air-passages may cause cyanosis and dyspnoea. When the oesophagus is pressed upon the patient may have difficulty in swallowing. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve may be stretched or pressed upon as it hooks round the arch of the aorta, and hoarseness of the voice and a characteristic “ brassy ” cough may result from paralysis of the muscles of the larynx which it supplies. The vagus, the phrenic, and the spinal nerves may also be pressed u})on. When the aneurysm is on the transverse part of the arch the trachea is pulled down with each beat of the heart—a clinical phenomenon known as the “ tracheal tug.” Aneurysm of the descending thoracic aorta may, after having eroded the bodies of the vertebrae and posterior portions of the ribs, form a swelling in the back to the left of the vertebral column. The surgical methods of treatment for thoracic aneurysm are merely palliative, and are designed to avert rupture. Needling, electrolysis, the Moore-Corradi method, and the subcutaneous injection of gelatin have all been employed with this object. Christopher Heath obtained some success in aneurysm of the transverse part of the aortic arch, from ligature of the left common carotid. Abdominal Aneurysm.—Aneurysm is much less frequent in the abdominal than in the thoracic aorta. While any of the large branches in the abdomen may be affected, the most common seats are just above the origin of the coeliac axis, and at the bifurcation of the aorta. The clinical features vary with the site of the aneurysm, and with its rapidity and direction of growth. A smooth, rounded swelling, which exhibits expansile pulsation forms, usually towards the left of the middle line. It may extend upwards under cover of the ribs, downwards towards the pelvis, or backwards towards the lumbar region. On palpation a systolic thrill may be detected, but the presence of a murmur is neither con.stant nor characteristic. Pain is usually present ; it may be neuralgic in character, or may simulate renal colic. When the aneurysm presses on the vertebrae and erodes them, the symptoms may closely simulate those of spinal caries, particularly if, as