683 THE WEIST-JOINT. radio-humeral joint. Tuberculous hydrops with melon-seed bodies is rare. Treatment. — Conservative measures are indicated when there is a prospect of securing a movable joint. .Tlie limb is placed in a Thomas’, Croft’s, or poroplastic splint, flexed to rather less than a right angle and with the hand seini- pronated. To inject iodoform, the needle of the syringe is most easily introduced between the external condyle and the head of the radius. Cold abscess is treated on the usual lines (p. 150). A localised focus of disease in one or other of the bones may be eradicated without opening into the synovial cavity. If the articular surfaces are so involved that recovery is likely to be attended with ankylosis, the disease should be removed by arthrectomy or excision. Cure of the disease with a useful and movable limb may then be reasonably anticipated within two or three months. When the patient’s occupation is such that a strong, stiff joint is preferable to a weaker movable one, bony ankylosis at rather less than a right angle should be aimed at. Arthritis deformans occurs as a hydrops with hypertroi)hy of the synovial fringes and loose bodies, or as a dry arthritis with eburnation and lipping of the articular margins (Fig. 247). Neuro-arthropathies are met with chiefly in syringomyelia, and are attended with striking alterations in the shape of the bones and with abnormal mobility. Pyogenic diseases result from staphylococcal osteomyelitis— chiefly of the humerus or ulna—and from gonorrhoea. The remaining diseases at the elbow include syphilitic disease in young children, bleeder’s joint, hysterical affections, and loose bodies, and do not call for special description. The Wrist-Joint. The close proximity of the flexor sheaths to the carpal articulations enables infective processes to spread readily from one to the other. The arrangement of the synovial membrane also favours the extension of disease throughout the numerous articulations in the region of the wrist. Tuberculous disease is met with chiefly in young adults, but may occur at any age. It usually originates in the synovial membrane, but foci are frequently present in the carpal bones, and less commonly in the lower ends of the radius and ulna, or in the bases of the metacarpals. The clinical features are almost invariably those of white swelling which is most marked on the back of the wrist, where it obscures the outlines of the bones and