SYPHILIS. 160 character and causes sloughing of the prepuce—a condition known as 2^hagedGena. The discharge is then foul and blood- stained, and the prepuce becomes of a dusky red or purple colour and finally sloughs, exposing the glans penis. Extra-genital or Erratic Chancres (Fig. 36).—Erratic chancre is the term ajjplied by Jonathan Hutchinson to the primary lesion of syphilis when it apj^ears on other parts of the body than the genitals. It differs in some respects from the hard chancre as met with on the penis ; it is usually larger, the induration is more diffused, and the enlarged glands are softer and more sensitive. The glands in nearest relation to the sore are those first affected, for example, the epitrochlear or axillary glands in chancre of the finger j the submaxillary glands in chancre of the lip or mouth; or of the pre- auricular gland in chancre of the eyelid or forehead. In con- sequence of their diverg- ence from the typical chancre and of their being often met with in persons who, from age, surroundings, or moral character, are un- likely subjects of ven- ereal disease, the true nature of erratic chan- cres is often overlooked until the persistence of the lesion, its want of resemblance to anything else, or the onset of con- stitutional symptoms determines the diagnosis of syphilis. A solitary, indolent sore occurring on the lip, eyelid, finger, or nipi)le, which does not heal but tends to increase in size, and is associated with induration and enlargement of the adjacent glands, is most likely to be the primary lesion of syphilis. The Soft So7’e, Soft Chana'e, or Chancroid.—The differential diagnosis of syphilis necessitates the consideration of the soft sore, soft chancre, or chancroid, which is also a common form of venereal disease, and is due to infection with a virulent pus- forming bacillus, first described by Ducrey. Ducrey’s bacillus is a short, thick rod which stains readily with any basic aniline dye, but is quickly discoloured by Gramm’s method. Its arrangement as a strepto-bacillus in short or long chains is of value in diagnosis. Soft sores are always contracted by direct Fig.' .36. —Primary Lesion of Syphilis on knuckle of woman, aet. 51, which was followed by very severe secondary manifestations. (Mr. A. A. Scot-Skirving's case.)