80 ULCERATION AND ULCERS. The scorbutic ulcer Occurs in patients suffering from scurvy, and is characterised chiefly by ifs marked tendency to bleed. In gouty patients small ulcers which are exceedingly irritable and painful are liable to occur. Other ulcers related to special morbid diatheses need not be specified here. Ulcers associated with Malignant Disease.—Certain malignant tumours, such as scirrhus of the breast, epithelioma of the tongue or lip, and some sarcomata, frequently invade the skin or mucous membrane, and appear on the surface as open, vascular sores. These are ’ sometimes spoken of as malignant ulcers, but as they are essentially difl'erent in their nature from all other forms of ulcers, and call for totally different treatment, it is best to consider them along with the tumours with which they are associated. Rodent ulcer, which is one form of cancer of the skin, will be discussed with tumours of the skin. It will be pointed out later that long-standing ulcers are liable to become the seat of malignant disease. B. Arrangement of Ulcers according to their Condition. —Having arrived at an opinion as to the cause of a given ulcer, and jflaced it in one or other of the preceding groups, the next question to ask one’s self is, “In what condition do I find it at the present moment ? ” For practical purposes it may be said that any ulcer is ip one of three states—healing, stationary, or spreading; although it is not uncommon to find healing going on at one part while the ulcer is extending at another. The Healing Condition.—The process of healing in an ulcer has already been studied, and we have learned that it takes place by the formation of granulation tissue, which becomes converted into connective tissue, and is covered over by epithelium growing in from the adjacent skin edges. Those which are stationary—that is, neither healing nor spreading—may be in one of several conditions. The Weak Condition.—Any ulcer may get into a weak state from receiving a blood-supply which is defective either in quantity or in quality. The granulations on the base are small and smooth, and of a pale yellow or grey colour. The discharge is small in amount, and consists only of thin serum and a few pus cells. This dries on the edges and forms scabs which interfere with the growth of epithelium. Should the part become oedematous either from general causes, such as heart, kidney, or liver disease, or fronr local