219 WOUNDS. and suicidal cut-throat wounds are also of the incised variety. It should be borne in mind in connection with medico-legal inquiries, that wounds of soft parts which closely overlie a bone, such as the skull, the tibia, or the patella, although inflicted by a blunt instrument, may have all the appearances of incised wounds. Clinical Feattires.—One of the most characteristic features of an incised wound is its tendency to gape. This is evident in long .skin wound.s, and e.specially when the cut runs across the part, or when it extends deeply enough to divide muscular fibres at right angles to their long axis. The gaping of a wound, further, is more marked when the underlying tissues are in a state of tension—as, for example, in inflamed parts. Incised wounds in the palm of the hand, the sole of the foot, or the scalji, however, have little tendency to gape, because of the close attachment of the skin to the underlying fascia. Incised wounds, especially in inflamed tissues, tend to bleed profusely; and when a vessel is only partially divided and is therefore unable to contract, it continues to bleed longer than when completely cut across. The special risks of incised wounds are : (1) division of large blood-vessels, leading to profuse hmmorrhage; (2) division of nerve-trunks, re.sulting in motor and .sensory disturbances; and (3) division of tendons or muscles, interfering with motion. Septic infection is, of course, a risk common to all varieties of wounds. Treatment.—If limmorrhage is still going on it must be arrested by pressure, torsion, or ligature, as completely as possible, as the accumulation of blood in a wound inter- feres with union. If necessary, the wound should be purified, by washing with saline solution or with peroxide of hydrogen, after which the edges are approximated by sutures. The raw surfaces must be brought into accurate apposition, care being taken that no inversion of the cutaneous surface takes j)lace. In extensive and deep wounds it may be advisable to unite the deeper structures by a .separate series of buried sutures of catgut or other absorbable material. For the approximation of the skin edges, stitches of horse-hair, flshing-gut, or fine silk are the most appropriate. These stitches of coaptation may be inter- rupted (Fig. 53) or continuous (Figs. 51, 52). In .small superficial wounds on exposed parts, stitch marks may be avoided by approximating the edges with strips of gauze fixed in position by collodion, or by subcutaneous sutures of fine catgut. Where the skin is loose, as, for example, in the neck, on the limbs, or in