G59 TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. sively diseased, a tiiin slice should he removed, and if foci are then revealed, it is better to gouge them out than to remove further slices of bone, as this involves needless sacrifice of the cortex and periosteum. The limb should be rendered bloodless before commencing the operation. The technicpie should be antiseptic rather than aseptic, so as to diminish the chances of tuberculous infection of the wounded surfaces. With the same object, as well as to overcome any minute tuberculous foci which may have escaped detection, a small quantity of sterilised iodoform may be rubl)ed into the raw surfaces and recesses of the joint. Further details belong to the surgery of the individual joints. While closure of the entire wound without drainage may be successful, it is safer to employ some means for preventing the accumulation of blood-clot. The operations of mihrectomy and excision are those usually performed for the removal of tuberculous disease in any joint. By arthrectomy is meant the removal only of such synovial membrane and articular cartilage as is diseased ; while excision implies the removal of a portion of one or of both of the bones entering into the formation of the joint, along with the entire synovial membrane and cartilage; but it should be stated that the original distinction between these procedures has largely disappeared. The modern operation for tuberculous joint disease sometimes partakes of the characters of an arthrec- tomy, sometimes of an excision, but in many cases neither of these terms would accurately describe the procedure which best meets the requirements of the case. The after-treatment is of considerable importance in order to obtain the maximum use- fulness of the limb. Massage, douching, electricity, and exercises should be persevered with. When the patient is able to resume using the limb, the wasting of muscles is likely to be recovered from, and, in young subjects, the growth in length of the bones continues. Operative treatment of deformities resulting from tuber- culous joint disease has almost entirely replaced reduction l)y force; the contracted soft parts are divided, and the bone is resected. Amputation for tuberculous joint disease has become one of the rare operations of surgery, and is only justified when less radical measures have failed and the condition of the limb is affecting the general health of the patient. Amputation is most frequently called for in persons past middle life, and particularly when se[)tic complications have supervened.