AFFECTIONS OF THE NAILS. 377 Onychia is the term applied to intiammation of the soft parts around the nail or of the matrix beneath it. The commonest form of onychia is that resulting from septic infection, which has already been referred to under “ Whitlow.” There is a super- ficial variety resulting from the extension beneath the nail of a purulent blister, lifting it up from its bed, and the pus is visible through the nail. The nail should be removed as well as the raised horny layer of the epidermis. A deeper and more troublesome onychia results from infection at the nail fold ; the infection spreads very slowly beneath the fold until it reaches the matrix, and a drop or two of pus forms beneath the nail, usually in the region of the lunule. This affection entails a disability of the finger which may last for many weeks unless it is properly treated. The nail fold and lunule should be frozen and a considerable portion removed with the knife; if only a small portion of the nail is removed, the opening is blocked by granulations springing fi’om the matrix. A new nail is formed. Tuberculous onychia (O. maligna) is met with chiefly in 'children and adolescents. It appears as a livid or red swelling at the root of the nail, spreading around its margins. The ej)idermis, which is thin and shiny, gives way, exposing a weak ulcer, and the nail is usually shed. The treatment is the same as in other tuberculous lesions. Syjohilitic affections of the nails assume- various aspects. A primary chancre at the edge of the nail may be mistaken for a whitlow, especially if it is attended with much pain. Other forms of onychia occur during secondary syphilis, simultaneously with the skin eruptions, and may prove very obstinate and lead to shedding of the nails. The nails are often markedly affected in inherited syphilis. In addition , to general treatment, an ointment containing five per cent, of oleate of mercury should be applied locally and the patient should wear gloves. Ingrowing Toe-nail (lateral onychia).—This is more accurately described as an overgrowth of the soft tissues along the edge of the nail. It is most frequently met with in the great toe in young adults whose feet perspire freely, who wear ill-fitting shoes, and who cut their toe-nails carelessly or tear them with their fingers. Where the soft tissues are pressed against the edge of the nail, the skin gives way and there is the formation of exuberant granulations and of discharge which is sometimes foetid. The affection is a painful one and may unfit the patient for work. In mild cases the condition may be remedied by getting rid of contributing causes and by disinfecting the skin