ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 165 regard a combination of the different types as suggestive of syphilis. In the later stages there may occur a form of creeping or sj)readinff ulceration of the skin of the face, groin, or scrotum, healing at one edge and spreading at another very like tuberculous lupus, but distinguished from this by its much more rapid progress and by the pigmentation of the scar. Condylomata are probably more characteristic of syphilis than any other type of skin lesion. They are papules occurring on those parts of the body where the skin is habitually moist, and especially where two skin surfaces are in contact. They are chiefly met with in relation to the external genitals, especially in women, ai’ound the anus, beneath large pendulous mammse, between the toes, and at the angles of the mouth, and in these situations their develoj)ment is greatly favoured by neglect of cleanliness. They 2)resent the appearance of well- defined circular or ovoid areas in which the skin is thickened and raised above the surface; they are covered with a white sodden epidermis, and furnish a scanty but very infective discharge. Under the influence of irritation and want of rest, as at the anus or at the angle of the mouth, they are apt to become fissured and superficially ulcerated, and the discharge then becomes more abundant, and may crust on the surface, forming yellow scabs. At the angle of the mouth the condylomatous patches may si)read to the cheek, and when they ulcerate may leave numerous fissure-like scars radiating from the mouth—an appearance best seen in inherited syphib’s (Fig. 38). The Appendages of the Skin.—The hair loses its gloss, becomes dry and brittle, and readily falls out, either as an exaggeration of the normal shedding of the hair or in scattered areas over the scalp. When the scalp has been the seat of a severe pustular eruption, the hair which is lost )uay not be replaced. The nails occasionally present a pustular eruption and superficial ulceration along the fold, to which the name syphilitic onychia has been applied; more commonly the nails become brittle and ragged, and they may even be shed. The Mucous Membranes, and especially those of the mouth and throat, suffer from lesions similar to those met with on the skin. From the discomfort which they [>roduce they are more likely to attract the attention of the patient, especially in men, so that in the diagnosis of antecedent syphilis the history of a sore mouth or throat may be of considerable assistance. On a mucous surface the papular eruption assumes the form of mucous