INJUKIES OF BONES. 420 Whether or not the amputation should be performed at once depends upon the general condition of the patient. If the injury is a severe one, and attended with a profound degree of .shock, it is better to wait for twenty-four or forty-eight hours. Meanwhile the wound is thoroughly purified, and the limb wrapped in an antiseptic dressing. Means are taken to counter- act shock and to maintain the patient’s strength, and evidence of septic infection or of haemorrhage is carefully watched for. When the shock has passed off and the patient is able to stand the operation, it is then performed under more favourable auspices. Clinical experience proves that by this means the mortality of primary amputations may be materially diminished, especially in injuries necessitating removal of an entire limb. Having decided to amputate, it is important to avoid having bruised, torn, or separated tissues in the flaps, as these are liable to. slough or to become the seat of septic infection. In this connection it should be borne in mind that the damage to soft tissues is always wider in extent than appears from external examination. Amputation may be called for later to arrest spreading septic processes, osteo-myelitis, or gangrene; to prevent exhaustion from prolonged suppuration and septic absorption ; or on account of secondary haemorrhage. SEPAEATION OF EPIPHYSES. It is only within late years that the subject of the separation of epiphyses (or, as they are sometimes called, diastases has received its due share of attention, and the use of the X-rays has added greatly to our knowledge of these lesions. It is useful to remember, that in the upper extremity, the epiphyses in the regions of the shoulder and wrist, and, in the lower extremity, those in the region of the knee, are the latest to unite; and that it is in these situations that growth in length of the bone goes on longest and most actively. Injuries of these epiphyses, therefore, are most liable to interfere with the growth of the limb. An epiphysis is nourished from the articular arteries and through the vessels of the periosteum. ' The term “diastasis” has been employed in different senses by different writers.