136 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. excision the wound is cauterised by the actual cautery and sponged over with pure carbolic acid. The cavity left is packed with iodoform gauze, no attempt being made to close the wound. The use of the X-rays, combined with the administration of iodides in large doses, is of great benefit, and in cases in which operative treatment is impracticable, is the most reliable measure at our disposal. Mycetoma, on Maduka Foot.—Mycetoma is a chronic disease due to an organism resembling that of actinomycosis, but not identical with it. It is endemic in certain tropical countries, and is most fre- quently met with in India. Infection takes place through an abrasion of the skin, and the disease usually occurs on the feet of adult males who work barefooted in the fields. Clinical Features.—The disease begins on the foot as an indurated Fig. 33.—Mycetoma, or Madura Foot. (Museum of Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.) patch, which becomes discoloured and permeated by black or yellow nodules containing the organism. These nodules spread through the foot, break down by suppuration, and numerous minute abscesses lined by granulation tissue are thus formed. In the pus are found yellow particles likened to fish-roe, or black pigmented granules like gun- powder. Sinuses form, and the whole foot becomes greatly swollen and distorted by flattening of the sole and dorsiflexion of the toes. Areas of caries or necrosis occur in the bones of the foot (Fig. 33) ; and the disease gradually extends up the leg. There is but little pain, and no glandular involvement or constitutional disturbance. The disease runs a prolonged course, sometimes lasting for twenty or thirty years. Spontaneous cure never takes jilace, and the risk to life is that of prolonged suppuration. If the disease is localised it may be removed by the knife or sharp spoon, and the part afterwards cauterised. As a rule, amputation well above the disease is the best line of treatment. Unlike actinomycosis, this disease does not appear to be benefited by iodides. Delhi Boil.—Synonyms—Aleppo boil, Biskra button, Furunculus orientalis. Natal sore. Delhi boil is a chronic inflammatory disease, most commonly met rvith in India, especially towards the end of the wet season. The disease