TUBEECULOUS DISEASE OF GLANDS. 323 When there are signs of liquefaction in the gland, or of a cold abscess in the tissues around, o})erative interference should be had recourse to without delay, in order to hasten the rei>arative process and to diminish the amount of disfigurement. The operative treatment varies with the condition of the glands. A mass of enlarged glands is excised along with the deep fascia by a careful process of dissection ; if licjuefaction has taken place, the condition is dealt with like a cold abscess. Where there is a combination of enlarged glands and abscesses, the latter are dealt with first, and the glands are excised either at the same operation or after an interval. Where there are sinuses these are excised or scraped, and all diseased skin is cut away, in addition to getting rid of the diseased glands. The excision of tuberculous glcmds is often an extensive and difficult operation, because of the number and deep situation of the glands to be removed, and because of the adhesions to surrounding structures. The skin incision mu.st be sufficiently extensive to give access to the whole of the affected area, and to avoid disfigurement should, whenever possible, be made in the line of the natural creases of the skin. Where glands are to be removed from both anterior and posterior triangles, the best access is obtained by a Z-shaped incision, the upper limb running [)arallel with the lower jaw, the vertical limb along the sterno- mastoid, and the lower limb parallel with the clavicle. In ex- posing the glands the common facial and other venous trunks may recpiire to be clamped and ligatured. Care must be taken not to injure the important nerves, particularly the spinal acces- sory, the vagus, and the phrenic. The inframaxillary branches of the facial, the hypoglos.sal and its descending branches, and the motor branches of the deep cervical plexus are liable to be injured, and should, if possible, be conserved. In the removal of matted glands beneath the sterno-mastoid, it may lie necessai’y to cut this muscle across and to reflect the divided ends upwards and downwards; if the muscle itself is infiltrated with tubercle, the affected portion is removed along with the glands. When the glandular mass is closely adherent to the internal jugular vein, the operation is rendered easier by ligaturing the vein at the root of the neck and removing it from below upwards along with the glands (Watson-Cheyne). When the glands are exten- sively affected on both sides of the neck, it may be advisable to allow an interval to elapse rather than to operate on both sides at one sitting. The scraping of softened glands and peri-glandular abscesses, although a useful and often a very necessary operation, is not