351 BRACHIAL NEURALGIA. We shall only consider here those forms of neuralgia which are amenable to surgical treatment. Brachial Neuralgia.—One or more of the roots or branches of the brachial plexus may be the seat of paiu. The j)ain is definitely located in the distribution of one of the branches or nerve roots, is often intermittent, and is usually associated with tingling and disturbance of tactile sensation. It may be due to a localised neuritis, or no cause can be discovered. The region of the root of the neck should be carefully examined to exclude the pressure of a cervical rib, a tumour, or an aneurysm as a cause of the pain. When medical treatment fails, recourse may be had to operative measures. The affected cords are exposed and stretched through an incision in the posterior triangle of the neck, commencing at the outer border of the sterno-mastoid at the junction of its middle and lower thirds, and passing outwards and downwards to the junction of the outer and middle thirds of the clavicle. If this operation fails to give relief, the posterior roots of the affected nerves may be resected within the spinal canal. Neuralgia of the great sciatic nerve—sciatica—is the most common form of neuralgia met with in surgical practice. A definite cause of the pain is rarely ascertainable. The condition is chiefly met with in adults of gouty or rheumatic tendencies who suffer from indigestion, constipation, and oxaluria —in fact, in the same type of patients who are liable to lumbago, and the two affections are frerpiently associated in the same person. In hospital practice it is commonly met with in coal-miners and others who assume a squatting position at work. The actual onset of the pain may follow over-exertion and ex- posure to cold and wet, especially in those who do not take regular exercise. Any error of diet or excessive indulgence in beer or wine may contribute to its development. The essential symptom is paroxysmal or continuous pain along the course of the nerve in the buttock, thigh, or leg. It may be comparatively slight, or may be so severe as to prevent sleep. It is usually aggravated by movement, so that the patient walks lame or is obliged to lie up. It is aggravated, also, by any movement which tends to put the nerve on the stretch, as in bending down to put on the shoes, such movements also causing tingling down the nerve, and sometimes numbness in the foot. This may be demonstrated by flexing the thigh on the alxlomen rvith the knee extended. There is no pain if the same manoeuvre is repeated with the knee flexed. The nerve is sensitive to pressure, the most tender points being its emergence from the