587 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. of pyajmia. The occurrence of septic endocarditis, as indicated by alterations in the heart sounds and the development of murmurs, may cause widesjtread infective embolism, and metastatic suppuration in the internal organs as well as in the bones and joints. The secondary suppurations are liable to be overlooked unless carefully sought for, as they are rarely attended with much pain. In these forms of osteomyelitis, the patient is dull and listless, or restless and talkative, or he is actually delirious. The tongue is dry and coated, the lips and teeth are covered with sordes, the motions are constipated, or they may be loose and offensive, and may be passed involuntarily. The temperature is remittent and very irregular, the pulse is small and rapid, and the urine is scanty and may contain blood and albumen. Sometimes the skin shows erythematous and purpuric rashes, bleeding takes place from the nose and mouth, bed-sores form over the sacrum, the belly becomes swollen and sensitive, and the patient may cry out as in meningitis. Differential Diagnosis.—Acute osteomyelitis is to be diagnosed from erysipelas, cellulitis, and other inflammations of the soft parts, and in the case of the tibia, from erythema nodosum. Tenderness localised to the ossifying junction is one of the most valuable diagnostic signs of osteomyelitis. When there is early and pronounced general intoxication, the severe forms of osteomyelitis are most likely to be confused with certain fevers, such as scarlet fever. In all febrile con- ditions in children and in young adults, the os.sifying junctions of the long bones should be examined for areas of pain and tenderness. Acute osteomyelitis has many features in common with rheumatic fever, and some authorities believe them to be different forms of the same disease (Kocher, Sahli). In acute rheumatism, however, the joint symptoms and signs pre- dominate, there is an absence of suppuration, and pains and temperature yield to salicylates much more decidedly than in osteomyelitis. The prognosis varies with the type of the disease, the initial severity and prominence of the symptoms of intoxication, with the seat of disease—the vertebrae, skull, pelvis, and lower jaw being specially unfavourable—with the multiplicity of the lesions, and with the development of septic endocarditis and internal metastases. Treatment.—This is carried out on the same lines as in other suppurative diseases. The limb is wrapped in a moist dressing.