296 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. is exposed by dissection, care being taken to avoid opening up the cellular planes more than is absolutely necessary. The vessel is recognised by its pulsation, and a portion sufficiently cleared of its sheath to enable the aneurysm needle to be passed without force. The wall of the vessel should be disturbed as little as possible, to avoid damaging the vasa vasorum through which it is nourished. The needle—threaded or unthreaded according to circumstances—is passed round the vessel from the side on which the most important structures lie. Where there is a single large vein accompanying the artery the needle is passed from the side on which the vein lies. Where there are venae comites the Ijresence of a nerve trunk on one or other side will determine the direction in which the needle is passed. The ligature—silk or chromicised catgut—is tied in a reef knot or in a stay knot. A stay knot consists of two ligatures applied side by side, each having the first turn of a reef knot tied separately. The two ends on each side are then used as a single cord with which to make the second turn of the reef knot (Ballance and Edmunds). The wound is sutured without drainage. The after treatment consists in wrapping the limb in cotton wool to conserve its heat, and elevating it sufficiently to promote the venous return, without at the same time impeding the arterial flow — a similar line of treatment to that already described in connection with rujJtured arteries (p. 251). Compression.—With a view to promoting coagulation in the sac, the circulation may be temporarily arrested by compressing the artery on the cardiac side of the aneurysm. To be efficient the compression must be kept up continuously for several hours, and this is best accomplished by digital pressure applied over a superficial part of the vessel where it overlies a bone. Digital compression is chiefly applicable to aneurysm of the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries. The results, however, are so uncertain, that the procedure has been given up almost entirely. Flexion.—In small and slowly growing aneurysms at the bend of the elbow or in the popliteal space, the circulation may be arrested and coagulation induced by flexing the joint so that the sac is pressed against the artery, and the artery slightly kinked. Before being flexed the limb is bandaged up to the level of the aneurysm. The flexed attitude is maintained for several hours. This method may be employed alone, or as an adjuvant to others, as, for example, when pulsation threatens to return after the artery has been ligated.