ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY. 579 the Haversian canals and anastomose with those derived from the nutrient artery. The epiphyses are nourished by a separate system of blood-vessels, derived chiefly from the arteries which supply the adjacent joint. The veins of the marrow are of large calibre and are devoid of valves. The nerves enter the marrow along with the arteries, and, being derived from the sympathetic system, are probably chiefly concerned with the in- nervation of the blood-vessels, but they are,also capable of transmitting sensory impulses, as pain is a prominent feature of many bone afl'ections. The function of the jieriosteum is to form new bone. In diseased conditions the formation of new bone may be arrested, retarded, or exaggerated. In infantile paralysis the function of the periosteum is often in abeyance, and the bones are abnormally thin and smooth. Increase in the activity of the periosteum results in an addition to the thickness or girth of the bone. When the new bone is added in the shape of a uniform layer on the surface, the condition is spoken of as hyperostosis ; when it assumes the form of spicules or irregular out- growths, these are spoken of as osteophytes ; and when it is heaped up so as to form a circumscribed elevation, this is described as a node. The marrow, in addition to its blood-forming functions, is chiefly concerned in the absorption of bone which is in excess of physiological requirements. Under certain conditions—and especially from the ju-o- longed irritation caused by pyogenic infection or by syphilis—the marrow assumes active bone-forming flinctions. This may lead to condensation of the spongy bone, and to diminution or obliteration of the medullary canal, whereby the bone becomes dense and heavy ; to this condition the name sclerosis is applied. When the periosteum and marrow are simultaneously engaged in the formation of bone, a combination of hyperostosis and sclerosis results. Under other conditions the absorjition of lime salts and excavation of bone may be excessive, and the shaft may become soft and brittle ; so that it is liable to bend under the weight of the body or to break from slight violence. Hypertrophy of hone results where there is a physiological increase in the bone-forming functions of the periosteum or of the marrow, or of both combined, and atrophy wheir the formation of bone is retarded or arrested, or absorption is in excess of the normal. In the atrophy which accompanies old age, there is both diminished formation and excessive absorption of bone. Considerable interest attaches to that form met with in the neck of the femur, in which, while the bone retains its external form, there is excavation and enlargement of the marrow spaces at the expense of the osseous framework ; this is some- times described as eccentric atrophy. The function of the epiphysial cartilaye is to provide for the growth of the shaft in length. While all epiphysial cartilages contribute to this result, certain of them functionate more actively and for a longer period than others. Those at the knee contribute more to the length of the limb than do those at the hip or ankle, and they are also the last to unite. In the ujiper limb this arrangement is reversed, for the more active epiphyses are at the shoulder and wrist, and, like those at the knee, are also the last to unite. The activity of the epiphysial cartilage may be modified as a result of disease. In rickets, for example, the formation of new bone may take place unequally, and may go on more rapidly in one half of the disc than in the other, with the result that the axis of the shaft comes