149 TUBERCULOUS ABSCESS. liquefaction of the inner layers, caseation of the outer layers, and the further invasion of the surrounding tissues by tubercle bacilli. In this way a tul^erculous abscess is capable of indefinite extension and increase in size until it reaches a free surface and ruptures externally. Once a collection of tuberculous pus has formed, the direction in which it s}>reads is influenced by the anatomical arrangement of the tissues, and possibly to some extent by gravity, and the abscess may come to the surface at a considerable distance from its seat of origin. The best illustra- tion of this is seen in psoas abscess, which may originate in the dorsal vertebrie, extend downwards within the sheath of the psoas muscle, and finally appear in the thigh. Clinical Features.—The slow and insidious development of the tuberculous abscess is one of its most characteristic features. The swelling may attain a considerable size without the patient being aware of its existence, and, as a matter of fact, it is often discovered accidentally. There is an absence of the ordinary signs of infiamniation ; but if the patient is under observation, and a record kept of the daily temperature, a slight rise may be noted in the evening during the development and progress of the abscess. There is fi’equently a quiescent stage of the tuberculous abscess, which is not attended with any rise of temperature. According to its situation and mode of origin, the abscess varies in size from a small chen-y to a cavity con- taining several j»ints of pus. The slnqte of the abscess varies ; it is usually that of a flattened sphere, but it may present jiockets or burrows running in various directions. (Sometimes the abscess is hour-glass or dumb-bell sluq)ed; this is well illustrated in the region of the groin in disease of the spine or pelvis, where there may be one large sac occupying the venter ilii, and a smaller one in the thigh, the two communicating by a narrow channel under Poupart’s ligament. By pressing with the lingers the pus may be displaced from one compartment to the other. Occasionally the jirogress of the abscess is arrested, and it may remain station- ary for an indefinite period. The usual course of events, however, is that the abscess progresses slowly, and finally reaches a free surface—usually the skin. As it does so there may be some pain, redness, and local elevation of temperature. Fluctuation becomes more and more evident and superficial, and the skin becomes livid and finally gives way. If the case is left to nature, the discharge of pus continues, and the track opening on the skin surface remains as a sinus. The persistence of suppura- tion is due to the presence in the wall of the abscess and of the sinus, of tubercle bacilli and tuberculous granulation tissue.