588 DISEASES OE BONE. and laid on a pillow, while the necessary preparations for opera- tive treatment are being made. The most important indications are to let out the pus as early as possible, and to avoid introducing any fresh infection. Operative Treatment of Suppurative Osteomyelitis.—The bone is exposed in the vicinity of its ossifying junction by an incision which affords the best access and inflicts least damage to the overlying soft parts. The periosteum is incised and the pus soaked up with gauze. Indications of the disease having originated in the marrow are often present, such as the presence of fat droplets or bone i^articles in the pus, the oozing of pus through holes in the cortex, or signs of commencing separation at the ossifying junction. The shell of the bone is perforated with a drill, gouge, or trephine. If pus is found, additional openings ai’e made according to the extent of the disease in the marrow, and these may be finally converted into one open gutter. In view of the great vascularity of the tissues, the limb should be elevated to emj^ty it of blood, and the circulation controlled by means of a rubber-band. The opening of the medullary canal not only tends to cut short the disease and prevent the occurrence of relapses, but diminishes the tendency to necrosis. We therefore recommend trephining the bone in the region of the ossifying junction, as a I’outine procedure in all cases of acute osteomyelitis. When there is widespread suppuration in the marrow and the bone is extensively bared of jDeriosteum and appears likely to die en masse, the shaft may be resected either at this stage or after an interval of two or three days. Resection of the shaft is also indicated if opening of the marrow is not followed by relief of symptoms ; it is more often practised in osteo- myelitis of the bones of the leg or forearm than in the femur or humerus. Amputation of the limb is reserved for grave cases in which life is endangered from general intoxication. It may be called for later if the limb is useless, as, for example, when the whole shaft of the bone is dead without any formation of a new case, when epiphyses are displaced and the adjacent joints are dis- organised. Flat bones, such as the skull or ilium, must be trephined and the pus cleared out from both aspects of the bone. In the vertebrae, operative interference is usually restricted to opening and draining any associated abscess. In cases which are left to nature those portions of the periosteum and marrow which have retained their vitality, resume their osteo-