THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 262 secondary bleeding, and subsequent cicatricial contraction may be excessive. Hot Water.—Profuse oozing, such, for example, as may occur from the uterus, or from the large raw surface left after excision of the knee, may sometimes be arrested by douching the part with sterilised water at a temperature of about 110° E, which acts by causing contraction of the muscular fibres of the vessel walls. Styptics.—The local application of styptics is seldom to be recommended. In the treatment of epistaxis or bleeding from the nose, of hsemorrhage from the socket of a tooth, and some- times from ulcerating or granulating surfaces, however, styptics may be useful. All clots must be removed and the drug applied directly to the bleeding surface. Adrenalin is the most useful drug for this purj^ose. Reactionary or intermediary haemorrhage is really a recurrence of primary bleeding. As the name indicates, it occurs during the period of reaction—that is, within the first few hours after an operation or injury. It may be due to the increase in the blood pressure which accompanies reaction displacing clots which have formed in the vessels, or causing vessels to bleed which did not bleed during the operation ; to the slipping of a ligature; or to the giving way of a grossly damaged portion of the vessel wall. In the scrotum, the relaxation of the dartos during the first few hours after operation occasionally leads to reactionary haemorrhage. When the bleeding is due to a ligature having slipped from a large vessel, the wound must be opened up and the vessel again secured. As a rule, however, reactionary htemorrhage takes place from small vessels as a result of the displacement of occluding clots, and in many cases the haemorrhage is found to stop when the bandages and soaked dressings are removed. If not, it is usually sufficient in the first instance to apply firm pressure and in the case of a limb to elevate it. Should the haemorrhage recur, the wound must be reopened, and ligatures applied to the bleeding vessels. Douching the wound with hot sterilised water (about 110° F.), and plugging it tightly with gauze, are often successful in arresting capillary oozing. The internal administration of morphin sometimes proves useful in preventing the recurrence of haemorrhage by keeping the patient quiet. The term Secondary Haemorrhage refers to bleeding which is due to some interference with the natural process by which an injured vessel is repaired. It is also employed to describe the bleeding which may result from erosion of a blood-vessel—