748 THE DEFOEMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. compensatory to shortening of the limb, it is usually said to be a mistake to correct the equinus. Experience shows, however, that in young j^atients the growth of the limb is stimulated by walking on the limb after the deformity has been corrected. Pes Calcaneus.—In this deformity the foot is dorsi-flexed at the ankle-joint. It is sometimes combined with eversion of the foot—pes calcaneo-valgus, or with inversion—pes cal- caneo-varus. Pure pes calcaneus may be congenital or acquired. In the congenital form the deformity is frequently bilateral There is dorsi-flexion at the ankle-joint, and if an attempt is made to flex the foot towards the sole, the extensor tendons stand out prominently. In marked cases the long axis of the os calcis is vertical, the tendo Achillis lies in close contact with the tibia, and the hollows on either side of the tendon are absent. The peronei are displaced from their grooves, and may lie in front of the external malleolus. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in other congenital deformities of the foot. Corrective manipulations are commenced within a few days after birth, and a mouldable splint is worn between times. When the child begins to walk there is a natural tendency towards recovery. In severe cases it may be necessary to lengthen the contracted tendons— the extensor digitorum, the extensor hallucis, and, it may be also, the peroneus tertius and tibialis anticus. In the acquired form, the appearances are very different because the anterior part of the foot is usually flexed towards the sole, thus disguising to a certain extent the dorsi-flexion at the ankle. This form is nearly always due to infantile paralysis in which the muscles of the calf are completely paralysed. It may also be due to division of the tendo Achillis. The anterior part of the foot is flexed towards the sole by the contraction of the plantar fascia and short muscles of the sole, the balls of the toes are approximated to the heel, and a deep transverse groove is formed in the sole opposite the mid- tarsal joint. The deformity presents a combination of the hollow foot—pes cavus—with pes calcaneus, and resembles that of a Chinese lady’s foot. The patient rests on the heel and on the balls of the great and little toes, the sole of the foot being so deeply hollowed that even the outer border does not touch the ground. The treatment varies with the conditions present. In paralysis of the calf muscles alone, the tendo Achillis may be reinforced by transplanting into it the peronei or flexor longus