PREVENTION OF WOUND INFECTION. 33 2000. Although less irritant locally than carbolic lotion, it is more poisonous by absorption, causing abdominal pain, diarrhcea, vomiting, and collapse, which may prove fatal. It corrodes metal instruments and dishes ; and, by its action on the albumen of the tissues and of the blood, forms an inert albuminate of mercury, so that its antiseptic efficiency is much diminished. Corrosive sublimate is jirobably the most eflicient lotion for purifying the hands after they have been con- taminated with septic material. A 1 in 1000 solution of corrosive subli- mate dissolved in 70 per cent, alcohol is one of the most efficient lotions for purifying the hands of the surgeon and the skin of the patient before ojierations. Lister's Strong Solution is prepared by making a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid in distilled water, in every 500 parts of which one part of perchloride of mercury is dissolved. BinioiUde of Mercury.—This lotion is widely used as a substitute for corrosive sublimate. It is a more powerful germicide, while it is less irritant, and it neither forms a mercuric albuminate nor tarnishes metal instruments. Biniodide is used in the same strengths as corro- sive sublimate, and may be dissolved either in water or in spirit. Iodine, in the form of the tincture mixed with water in equal parts, is one of the most useful antiseptics to apply to infected tissues. Peroxide of Hydrogen (10-15 volumes strength) is of great value in disinfecting and deodorising septic wounds and cavities. It acts in virtue of its oxidising properties. Each volume of the fluid contains from ten to fifteen volumes of oxygen in such feeble combination that it is at once given up when it comes into contact with any oxidisable substance. Boraeic Acid Lotion is a saturated solution of boracic acid crystals in water. It is a weak, non-poisonous lotion of some value as a preventive of sepsis, but of little germicidal power. It is useful in washing out the urinary bladder and as a mouth-wash. Lysol, one of the newer proprietary antiseptics, is most useful in cleansing the skin of the patient and the surgeon’s hands both before and after operations. It is used in strengths varying from 1 in 100 to 1 in 400. It combines the advantages of an antiseptic solution and a soap. Its irritating action on the skin of the hands may to a large ex- tent be prevented by rinsing the hands in sterile water to get rid of the lysol. As it forms a ropy mixture when brought into contact with pus or blood it is not a suitable lotion for wounds. Formalin, izal, ereolin, antiseptol, and sanitas are useful disinfectant and deodorant lotions. Iodoform is a feeble germicide, but jiossesses a peculiar property of neutralising the products of bacteria when it is broken up in contact with the tissues of the body. To this property—probably in virtue of the liberation of free iodine in the process of its disintegration—it owes its undoubted value in wounds with a foul discharge, in tuberculous conditions, and in venereal sores. It is also useful in wounds in the neighbourhood of septic cavities, such as the mouth or rectum, as a means of preventing or controlling sepsis. It is best employed in the form of moderate-sized crystals, which should be sterilised by immersion in 1 in 20 carbolic before being used, as micro-organisms are capable of living in the dried powder. Its odour may be disguised by mixing with it powdered Tonga bean or its active principle. In children and in weakly old people, symptoms of i)oisoning by absorption may occur, in the form of loss of appetite, dry tongue, raised VOL. I—3