756 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. especially a badly united Pott’s fracture, the foot may be displaced outwards and pronated, the sole looking outwards (Fig. 209). It is treated by supra-malleolar osteotomy of the tibia and fibula. Other Forms of Flat-foot.—Flat-foot is sometimes met with in rickety children, in association with knock-knee or curvature of the bones of the legs, and is treated on the same lines as other rickety deformities. Flat-foot may follow upon an attack of acute rheumatism or upon diseases in the region of the ankle and tarsus, such as those resulting from gonorrhoea, arthritis deformans, tuberculosis, and Charcot’s disease. There is a congenital form of flat-foot in which the sole is convex and the dorsum concave, the result of the persistence of an abnormal attitude of the foetus in utero. Lastly, there is a racial variety of flat-foot, chiefly met with in negroes and in Jews, which is inherited and developmental, and which, although unsightly, is rarely a cause of disability. Metatarsalgia.—This affection, which was first described by Morton of Philadelphia, is a neuralgia of the plantar aspect of the foot in the region of the heads of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is most often met with in adults between thirty and forty, and is commoner in women than in men. The j)atient complains of a dull aching or of an intense boring pain in the anterior part of the foot. The pain is usually relieved by taking off the boot and by rest. It may be excited by squeezing the heads of the metatarsals together or by grasping the fourth metatarso-phalangeal joint between the finger and thumb. In advanced cases the pain may be so severe as completely to cripple the patient, so that he is obliged to use a crutch. On examination, the sole may be found to be broadened across the balls of the toes, and there may be corns over the heads of the third and fourth metatarsals. Skiagrams may show a downward displacement of the head of one or other of these bones. Prints of the foot may show an increased area of contact in the region of the balls of the toes. The affection is sometimes traced to an injury, but is more often of insidious development, and is then ascribed to sinking of the transverse arch of the foot, the result of wearing badly fitting boots. The intense pain is believed to be due to stretching of, or i)ressure upon, the interdigital nerves or the communicat- ing branch between the internal and external plantar nerves. The affection is often combined with ordinary flat-foot. Treatment.—Great improvement usually results from treating the co-existing flat-foot. Pain is relieved by rest, massage, and douching. A tight bandage or strip of plaster applied round the