138 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. snakes of Africa, the viper of Europe, and the adder of the United Kingdom. While the virulence of these creatures varies widely, they are all capable of producing in a greater or less degree symptoms of acute jjoisoning in man and other animals. By means of two recurved fangs attached to the upper jaw, and connected by a duct with poison-secreting glands, they introduce into their prey a thick, transparent, yellowish fluid, of acid reaction, probably of the nature of an albumose, and known as the venom. The clinical features resulting from the injection of the venom vary directly in intensity with the amount of the poison introduced, and the rapidity with which it reaches the circulating blood, being most marked when it immediately enters a large vein. The poison is innocuous when taken into the stomach. Locally the snake inflicts a double wound, passing vertically into the subcutaneous tissue; the edges of the punctures are ecchymosed, and the adjacent vessels the seat of thrombosis. Immediately there is intense pain, and considerable swelling with congestion, which tends to spread towards the trunk. Extensive gangrene may ensue. There is no special involvement of the lymphatics. The general symptoms may come on at once if the sna.ke be a particu- larly venomous one, or not for some hours if less virulent. In the majority of vii^er or adder bites the general constitutional disturbance is slight and transient, if it appears at all. Snake-bites in children are particularly dangerous. The patient’s condition is one of profound shock with faintness, giddiness, dimness of sight, and probably loss of speech, and a feeling of great terror. The pupils dilate, the skin becomes moist with a clammy sweat, and nausea with vomiting, sometimes of blood, ensues. High fever, cramps, loss of sensation, haematuria, and melaena are among the other symptoms which may be present. The pulse becomes feeble and rapid, the respiratory nerve centres are profoundly depressed, and delirium followed by coma usually precedes the fatal issue, which may take place in from five to forty-eight hours. If the patient survives for two days the prognosis is favourable. Treatment.—A broad ligature should be tied tightly round the limb just above the seat of infection to prevent the poison passing into the general circulation. Bleeding from the wound should be encouraged, and, if necessary, incisions may be made for this purpose. The apjdica- tion of an Esmarch’s elastic bandage from above downward to empty the blood out of the infected portion of the limb has been recommended. The whole of the bite should at once be excised, and the raw surface treated with a solution of permanganate of potash or peroxide of hydrogen, which destroys the poison by oxidation. The general treatment consists in free stimulation with whisky, brandy, ammonia, digitalis, etc. Hypodermic injections of strychnine in doses sufficiently large to produce a slight degree of poisoning by the drug are particularly useful. The most rational treatment, when it is available, is the use of the antivenin introduced by Fraser and Calmette.