570 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. plaster case may be removed and the limb massaged. It is usually found that the movements of the ankle are scarcely interfered with, and the patient is generally able to resume work within a month of the accident. When there is marked eversion of the foot, it is sometimes necessary to reduce the deformity under chloroform, and if it tends to recur this may be prevented by Dupuytren's splint (Fig. 211). This splint, which is the same shape as Liston’s long splint, but on a small scale, is applied to the inner side of the leg, extending from the knee to well beyond the sole of the foot. A large pad is 23laced in the hollow above the internal malleolus, and must be thick enough to carry the splint so far from the limb that when the foot is fully inverted it does not touch the sidint. The u]>per end of the sjjlint having been fixed to the leg at the level of the tuberosities of the tibia, a bandage is applied to correct the eversion of the foot, and at the same time to sujjport the heel, and, as far as jjossible, to over- come thej)ointing of the toes. Care must be taken to avoid carrying the turns of this ban- dage over the seat of fracture. The limb may then be slung in a cradle, side with the knee flexed. In the course of a few days, a poroplastic or a Croft’s splint may be substituted and massage commenced. When backward displacement of the heel is the prominent deformity, Syme's horse-shoe or stirrup splint (Fig. 212) is some- times employed. It is applied to the anterior aspect of the limb, which is carefully padded to prevent undue pressure on the edge of the shin bone. As the inner aspect of the leg slopes from the crest of the shin more abruptly than the outer, in order that the splint may have a flat surface to rest upon, the padding must be twice as thick on the inner as on the outer side. After the upper end of the splint has been fixed below the knee, the heel is jjulled forward by a few turns of bandage jjassed over the prongs at the lower end of the splint. The foot is then Fig. 212.—Syine’s Horse-Shoe Siiliut applied to correct backward displacement of foot. or 2Jlaced on a jiillow resting on its outer