PYOGENIC DISEASES. 641 111 the course of joints may become distended with pns without any pronounced changes in the joint structures, without local signs except those indicating the presence of fluid, and without much complaint on the part of the patient. When the joint is infected through an external wound, either accidental or operative, the morbid anatomy and clinical features are similar to those described when the infection has been carried to the joint by the blood-stream; but the lesion is usually more severe and destructive, and is more likely to result in osseous ankylosis. The terminations vary with the gravity of the infection and with the. stage at which it comes under surgical treatment. In the milder forms recovery is the rule, with more or less complete restoration of function. In the more severe forms, and especially when several joints are involved, death may result from septic absorption. If the patient recovers, the joint or the entire limb may be permanently damaged. There may be fibrous or bony ankylosis, in a good or in a bad position, or there may be deformity from displacement or dislocation. From changes in the peri-articular structures there may be con- tracture of the limb in an undesirable position, and in young subjects there may be interference with the growth of the limb. The persistence of sinuses is usually due to disease in one or other of the adjacent bones. The diagnosis, while easy and straightforward in the graver suppurative forms, may be difficult in the milder varieties, for these may resemble very closely the serous effusions met with in gonorrhoea or tuberculosis. The treatment is governed by the same principles as guide us in the treatment of other pyogenic infections. The limb is immobilised and elevated in such an attitude that should stiff- ness occur there will be the least possible interference with function. Extension by weight and pulley may relieve symptoms and counteract any tendency to flexion. An alternative line of treatment is the production of venous congestion after the method of Bier ; it is sometimes remarkably efficacious in relieving the pain, and in arresting the jirogress of the infection. An important question is that of the withdrawal of the fluid from the joint. If this is in sufficient quantity to cause tension, or if it tends to persist, or if from the temperature and other indications there is reason to suspect that it is purulent, it should be withdrawn without delay. An exploring syringe may suffice in the serous variety; but the suppurative forms demand incision and di-ainage. In addition, the joint may be gently VOL. I—41