PARALYTIC DEFORMITIES OF SHOULDER 765 trapezius is detaclied from the clavicle and is stitched to the surface of the deltoid; the arm is fixed in the position of horizontal abduction with the arm rotated out and supinated. When this method is impracticable, the upper arm may be fixed to the trunk by some form of apparatus, or a close fibrous union between the humerus and glenoid is brought about by operation (arthrodesis), so that the movements of the scai)ula may be communicated to the upper arm and thus enaljle the patient to execute purpose-like movements. In cases of infantile paralysis when all the muscles governing the elbow are paralysed, while the muscles of the hand have e.scaped, it may l)e of great service to fix the joint permanently at a right angle. This may be effected by arthrodesis, or by the method practised by Jones and Tubby, which consists in removing an extensive diamond-shaped portion of skin from the fiexor aspect of the joint and bringing the raw .surfaces together. In si)astic paraly.sis the most [ironounced deformity is flexion of the forearm and pronation and flexion of the hand (Fig. 278). Gradual extension at the wrist may be brought about by the use of a malleable iron splint, in which the angle is gradually increased, over a period of at least twelve months. Failing success l)y this method, operation may be had recourse to, and this will con.sist in tenotomy, lengthening of tendons, and tendon transplantation. Tubby has devised an oi)eration for converting the pronater radii teres into a supinator, and Robert Jones another in which the flexors of the carpus are made to take the place of the extensors. “ These operation.s, combined if necessary with elongation of the flexors of the fingers, pave the way for diminution of the angle of flexion at the elbow, lessening of the pronator spasm, increase of the supinating power, reduction of the carpal flexion, and addition to the exten.sor power at the wrist” (Tubby and Jones). Congenital Dislocations at the Elbow.—The head of the radius may be dislocated forwards, backwards or outwards— usually in association with imperfect development of the outer condyle of the humerus. As the displaced head of the boTie interferes with the movements at the elbow-joint, the best treat- ment is to excise it. Congenital dislocation of both bones of the forearm is extremely rare. Cubitus Valgus and Cubitus Varus.—When the normal arm hangs by the side with the palm of the hand directed forwards, the forearm and upper arm form air angle which is open out- wards—this is , known as the “ carrying angle ” ; it is usually more marked in women in association with the greater breadth