97 CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. of frost-bite is numbness in the part. This is followed by a sense of weight, tingling, and finally by complete loss of sensation. The [)art attacked becomes white and bleached-looking, feels icy cold, and is insensitive to touch. The limb above the dead area may be the seat of excruciating pain. Either immediately, or, it may be, not for several days, it becomes discoloured and swollen, and finally contracts and shrivels. The dead portion is cast off, as in other forms of dry gangrene, by the formation of a line of demarcation. Frophi/laxis.—The first essential in the prophylaxis of gangrene from frost-bite is to avoid the too sudden application of heat. The patient should be placed in a cold room, and the part rubbed with snow or put in a cold bath, and have light friction applied to it. As the circulation is restored the general surroundings and the local applications are gradually made warmer. Elevation of the part, wrapjfing it in cotton wool, and removal to a warmer room are then permissible, and stimu- lants and warm drinks may be given with caution. When by these means the onset of gangrene is averted, recovery emsues, its onset being indicated by the white parts assuming a livid red hue and becoming the seat of an acute burning sensation. Strong chemical agenttf, such as caustic potash, nitric or sulphuric acid, may also induce local tissue necrosis, the general appearances of the lesions produced being very like those of severe burns. The resulting sloughs are very slow to separate, and leave deep punched-out cavities which are long of healing. Carbolic acid, even in comparatively weak solution, is liable to induce dry gangrene when applied as a fomentation to a finger, especially in women and children (Fig. 22). Thrombi form in the blood-vessels of the part, which at first is pale and soft, but later becomes dark and leathery. On account of the amesthetic action of carbolic acid the onset of the process is painless, and the patient does not realise his danger. A line of demarcation soon forms, but the dead part separates very slowly. Gangrene from Mechanical Constriction of the Vessels of the part.—The application of a bandage or plaster of Paris case too tightly, or of a tourniquet for too long a time, has been known to lead to death of the part beyond; but such cases are rare, as are also those due to the pressure of a fractured bone or of a tumour on a large artery or vein. When gangrene occurs from such causes it tends to be of the moist type. Much commoner is it to meet with localised areas of sloughing due to the excessive pressure of splints over bony prominences, such as the external VOL. I—7