REGENERATION OF BONE. 581 shape of worm-eaten depressions and perforations of having been eroded. In practice one may till small defects with a flap of periosteum and bone taken from the tibia, the crest of the ileum, or from an amputated toe. When the shaft of a long bone, such as the humerus or femur, has been resected, the fibula from the same subject or the tibia from a recently amputated limb may be inserted into the gap. Transplanted living bone retains its vitality, not only when embedded in bone-forming tissues, but also when embedded in the soft parts, as is evidenced by the result of operations in which bone has been transplanted to form a new bridge to the nose. DISEASES OF BONE. The different morbid processes met with in bone originate in the same way and lead to tlie same general results as do similar processes in other tissues. The structural peculiarities of bone, however, and the important changes which take place in the skeleton during the period of growth modify certain of the clinical and pathological features. Our conceptions of the nature of the diseases which affect the skeleton have been rendered clearer and more accurate by the demonstration of the bacterial origin of the great majority of them. Definition of Terms.—Any inflammatory process which affects the periosteum is spoken of as periostitis; the term osteomyelitis is employed when the inffammation occurs in the marrow. In using these terms, however, it should be re- membered that they indicate only the seat of the morbid process, but give no information regarding its nature. This is conveyed by prefixing such qualifying adjectives as pyogenic, tuberculous, or syphilitic to the terms periostitis or osteo- myelitis. The term ostitis is intended to convey the idea of an inflammatory process in bone apart from periostitis or osteomyelitis; but it is doubtful if this ever occurs. The term epiphysitis has been a})iilied to an inflammatory process in two distinct situations—namely, the ossifying nucleus in the epiphysis, and the ossifying junction between the epiphysial cartilage and the diaphysis. We shall restrict the term to in- flammation in the first of these situations. Inffammation at the ossifying jnnction is included under the term osteomyelitis. The term rarefying ostitis is applied to any inflammatory process which is attended with excessive absorption of the frame- work of a bone, whereby it becomes more porous or spongy than it was before, a condition known as osteoporosis. This is to be