462 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. in the circumflex nerve, especially marked in the region of the insertion of the deltoid. In addition to employing massage, and moving the limb, it is necessary to keep up the nutrition of the muscles by electricity. Benefit usually follows the use of hot-air baths. When these measures are not available, repeated blistering along the line of the circumflex nerve may be tried. Fractures of the Scapula. Fractures of the scapula may implicate the body, the surgical neck, the acromion, or the coracoid process. _ They are rarely compound. Fracture of the Body.—Considering its exposed position, the body of the scapula is comparatively seldom fractured, doubtless because of its mobility, and the support it receives from the elastic ribs and soft muscular cushion on which it lies. Apart from gun-shot injuries it is most frequently broken by a severe blow or crush. The scapula presents two natural arches—one longitudinal, the other transverse—and when the bone is crushed or struck the force produces fracture by undoing its curves (E. H. Bennett). A main fissure usually runs transversely across the infra-spinous fossa, and secondary cracks radiate from it. In other cases the line of the primary fracture is longitudinal, passing through the spine and involving both fossse. The clinical features are often obscured by swelling of the overlying soft parts. Crepitus may sometimes be elicited by placing one hand firmly over the bone, and with the other moving the arm and shoulder. When the spine is implicated the fragments may be grasped through the skin and made to move upon one another. The displacement, which usually consists in overlapping of the fragments—although sometimes they are drawn apart—is partly due to the action of the serratus magnus and teres major muscles, and partly depends on the direction of the force. Movement is restricted and painful. Osseous union usually takes place rapidly, and although displace- ment often persists, the function of the limb is unimpaired. Treatment.—As these fractures are usually complicated by other injuries, especially of the thorax, and are accompanied by severe shock, it is necessary to confine the patient to bed. It is usually sufficient to fix the arm and shoulder to the chest wall by a firm binder or by strips of adhesive plaster, in the position which admits of the most comjdete apposition of fragments. This retentive apparatus is employed for about