GOUTY ARTHRITIS. 661 condyles of the femur or tibia, may furnish a sequestrum, which, by involving the articular surface, imparts to the disease a persistent character. In such cases anti-syphilitic treatment must be supplemented by operative measures directed to the removal of the diseased tissues. In the knee excision is rarely called for; but in the elbow it may be performed in order to obtain a movable joint. In inherited syphilis, the earliest joint affections met with are those associated with the epiphysitis of infants, in which there may be an effusion into the adjacent joint, especially in the knee or elbow; and in exceptional cases pyogenic infection may be superadded, and pus form in the joint. In older children, a primary synovitis is met with of which the most striking features are : its insidious development, its chronic course, symmetrical distribution, freedom from pain, the free mobility of the joint, and its association with other syphilitic stigmata, especially in the eye, and its tendency to relapse. The knees are the joints most frequently affected, and the condition usually yields readily to anti-syphilitic treatment without the functions of the joint being impaired. The tertiary or gummatous joint lesions in inherited syphilis are the same as in the acquired disease. Joint Diseases accompanying certain Constitutional Conditions. Gout.—Arthritis Urica.—Gout is a constitutional disease, one of the manifestations of which is that certain joints are liable to attacks of inflammation associated with the deposit of a chalk-like material composed of sodium bi-urate. This deposit takes place chiefly in the articular cartilage, it may be in streaks or patches towards the central area of the joint, or over the entire extent of the cartilage, which appears as if it had been painted over with plaster of Paris. The urates are really deposited in the substance of the cartilage, and not on its free surface. The surface of the cartilage is at first intact, but is liable to degenerate and necrose, and form what is known as a gouty ulcer, and this may extend through the cartilage and invade the substance of the bone. In the synovial' membrane the deposit of urates is usually attended with effusion into the joint, while in the ligaments and peri-articular structures it leads to the overgrowth of fibrous tissue and the formation of adhesions. The metatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe, on one or on both