89 SKIN-GKAFTING. healthy, healing condition, especially those resulting from burns, severe crushes, or septic processes involving wide destruction of skin. It may also be em})loyed to cover in the raw surfaces left after the excision of new growths implicating the skin, or of patches of lupus. In rectifying such defects as extroversion of the bladder, ectropion of the eyelids, destruction of the cheek or nose, and in other plastic operations also, skin-grafting is often of value. It is of ])rimary ini[)ortance that the surface on which the grafts are placetl should be aseptic and have a good vascular suppl}^ The surrounding tissues also must be free of inflamma- tion, oedema, or induration. The best results are obtained when the grafts are placed on a fresh raw surface. A granulating surface is, on the whole, less satisfactory, because of the difficulty of ensuring its asepticity, and on account of the tendency of a cicatrix formed by granulation tissue to undergo contraction. Preparation of the Surface.—For two or three days the ulcer and its surroundings should be thoroughly purified, and it is often advantageous to paint the surface with pure carbolic acid daily during this period. In old-standing ulcers of the leg it is best to excise the whole ulcer, including its edges and alwmt a quarter to half an inch of the surrounding ti.ssue, as well as the underlying fibrous tissue. In extensive ulcers resulting from recent burns, if the granula- tions are healthy and a.septic, the grafts may safely be jilaced on them directly. If, however, their asepticity cannot be relied upon it is riecessary to scrape away the superficial layer of the granulations, the young fibrous tissue underneath being con- served, as it is sufficiently vascular to nourish the grafts placed over it. There is no advantage in preserving any young epithelium which may have formed round the ulcer, as this is very liable to break down after the grafts have united, leaving a raw ring round the newly formed cicatrix. Oozing can be stopped by pads of sterilised gauze saturated with peroxide of hydrogen (10 volumes strength), and after the bleeding has ceased the excess of peroxide solution is washed away by a copious yet gentle stream of saline solution. In some cases pressure with a pad of sterilised gauze is sufficient to arrest the oozing, a layer of protective having been placed next the wound to prevent the gauze adhering and starting the bleeding afresh when the gauze is removed. The part from which the grafts are taken should be disinfected as for any other operation.