73 THE HEALING SOKE. of granulations, their disposition, size, colour, vascularity, and whether they are depressed or elevated in relation to the surround- ing parts. (2) The discharge as to quantity, consistence, colour, com])osition, and odour. (3) The edges, noting particularly whether or not the marginal epithelium is attempting to grow in over the surface; also their shape, regularity, thickness, and whether undermined or overlapping, everted or depressed. (4) The surrounding tissues as to whether they are congested, oedeuiatous, inflamed, indurated, or otherwise. (5) Whether or not there is pain or tenderness in the raw surface or its surround- ings. (6) The part of the body on which it occurs, because certain ulcers have special seats of election—for example, the varicose ulcer in the lower third of the leg, the perforating ulcer on the foot, and so on. The Healing Sore.—When a portion of skin has been excised aseptically—for exanqfle, in removing a small cutaneous tumour —the raw surface left is soon covered over with a layer of coagulated blood and lymph. In the course of a few days this is rei)laced by the growth of granulations, which are of uniform size, of a pinkish-red colour, and moist with a slight serous exudation containing a few dead leucocytes. They grow until they reach the level of the surrounding skin, and so fill the ga2> with a fine velvety mass of granulation tissue. At the edges the young epithelium may be seen spreading in over the granulations as a fine bluish-white ^^ellicle, which gradually covers in the sore, becoming ^^aler in colour as it thickens, and eventually forming the smooth, non-vascular covering of the cicatrix. There is neither jjain nor fever, and the surrounding parts are healthy. This may be taken as the ideal form. of ulcer, and may con- veniently be used as a type with which to coni2)are the ulcers seen at the bedside, so that we may determine how far, and in what particulars, these differ from the tyjje; and that we may in addition recognise the conditions which have to be counter- acted before they assume the characters of the typical healing sore. For ^iuiqjoses of contrast we may look at the characters of an ulcer in which bacterial infection has taken place. Suppose the raw surface to have become infected with virulent jjyogenic bacteria, the layer of coagulated blood and lymjjh becomes liquefied and is thrown off. Instead of granulations being formed, the tissues exjiosed on the floor of the ulcer are destroyed by the bacterial toxins, with the formation of minute sloughs and a quantity of pus.