357 CORNS—CHILBLAINS. prolonged friction and pressure. They occur on the fingers and hand as a result of certain occupations and sports, but are most common under the balls of the toes or heel. A bursa may form beneath a callosity, and if it becomes inflamed may cause con- siderable suffering. The treatment of callosities on the foot consists in removing pressure by wearing properly fitting boots, and in applying a ring pad around the callosity. In addition, after soaking in hot water, the overgrown horny layer may be pared away with a knife, and the part painted once daily with a saturated solution of salicylic acid in Hexile collodion. Corns.—A corn is a localised overgrowth of the horny layer of the epidermis which grows downwards, pressing upon and displacing the sensitive jiapilte of the corium. Corns are due to the friction and pressure of ill-fitting boots, and are met with chiefly on the toes. A corn is usually hard, dry, and white; but it may be sodden from moisture, as in “ soft corns ” between the toes. A bursa may form beneath a corn, and if inflamed constitutes one form of bunion. When suppuration takes place in relation to a corn, it is very jiainful and disabling, and may }>rove the starting-jioint of lymphangitis. The suffering which attends ordinary corns varies with the weather and climate. The treatment consists in the wearing of properly fitting boots and stockings, and in removing the corn. This is done after the manner of chiroi)odists by digging out the corn with a suitably shai)ed knife. A more radical procedure is to excise, under local aniesthesia, the portion of skin containing the corn and the undei’lying bursa if present. The majority of so-called corn solvents consist of a solution of salicyli(? acid in collodion; if this is painted on daily the epidermis dies and is thus more easily i>ared away. The unskilful i)aring of corns on the toes may determine the occurrence of senile gangrene in those who are predisposed to this disease by atheromatous arteries. Chilblains. — Chilblain or erythema pernio is a vascular disturbance resulting from the alternate action of cold and heat on the distal parts of the body. Chilblains are met with chiefly on the fingers and toes in children and anaemic girls. In the mild forms there is a sensation of burning and itching, the part rapidly becomes swollen, of a dusky-red colour, and the skin tense and shiny. In more severe cases the burning and itching are attended with pain, and the skin becomes of a violet or wine- red colour. There is a third degree, closely approaching frost- bite, in which the skin tends to blister and give way, leaving an indolent raw surface popularly known as a “ broken chilblain.”