TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF GLANDS. 321 and may even vary in size from time to time, but with the addition of peri-adenitis they become fixed and matted together, forming large lobulated or nodular masses. They become adherent not only to one another’, but also to the structures in their vicinity — and notably to the internal jugular vein — a point of considerable importance in regard to their removal by operation. At any stage the progress of the disease may be arrested and the glands may remain for long periods without further change. It is possible that the tuberculous tissue in the interior of the glands may undergo cicatrisation and so effect a cure. More commonly it terminates in suppuration, and the result is an abscess, which is usually of the cold variety, but may partake of the more active features of the pyogenic type. The transition from the solid to the liquefied stage of the disease is attended with pain and tenderness in the gland, which at the same time becomes fixed—especially to the skin—and more globular. Finally fluctuation is readily elicited. If left to itself the softened tubercle erupts through the capsule of the gland and infects the cellular tissue. The cervical fascia is perforated, and a cold abscess, often much larger than the gland from which it took origin, forms between the fascia and the overlying skin. The further stages—reddening, under- mining of skin and external rupture, with the formation of ulcers and sinuses—have been described with tuberculous abscess (p. 148). The ulcers and sinuses may persist indefinitely, or may heal uj) for a time and then break out afresh; and sometimes the skin becomes the seat of tuberculous disease, which may spread like lupus, especially in the submaxillary region, until it eventually extends from ear to ear. Healing may finally take place after all the caseous tubercle has been extruded, but the resulting scars are extremely unsightly, being puckered or bridled, or even highly coloured and hypertrophied like keloid While the disease is most common in childhood and youth, it may be met with even in advanced life ; and although commonly associated with depraved health and unhealthy surroundings, it may affect those who are apparently robust and in affluent ji circumstances. Diagnosis.—Tuberculous disease is differentiated from the glandular enlargement which results from septic irritation by its persistence after all sources of irritation have been removed, i It is rarely possible to differentiate tuberculous disease from i] lymphadenoma and from lympho-sarcoma at a stage w’hen a || positive diagnosis would be of real value, unless a gland is excised VOL. I—21