205 CARCINOMATA OR CANCERS. no one has been able to originate an unequivocal new growth by the agency of any parasite. It is a striking fact that at a cer- tain stage of its growth cancerous tissue is essentially similar to the tissue of the embryo. There are a number of conditions which favour the develo[)nient of cancer, such as inheritance, age, environment, prolonged irritation, and many others. These cannot, however, be regarded as essential causes of cancer ; some other factor would appear to be required, but what that factor is still remains unknown. While there are isolated distances recorded of the communica- tion of cancer from one person to another, the difficulties which attend the artificial transference of new growths in general demonstrate the important fact that cancer is neither contagious nor infectious. The prognosis largely depends on the particular variety of cancer and on its situation. Certain varieties—such as the atrophic cancer of the breast which occurs in old people, and some forms of cancer in the rectum—are so indolent in their progress that they can scarcely be said to shorten life; while others—such as the softer varieties of mammary cancer occurring in young women—are among the most malignant of tumours. The mode in which cancer causes death depends to a large extent u2ion the situation of the tumour. In the gullet or stomach, for example, it usually cau.ses death by starvation; in the larynx or thyroid, by suffocation ; in the intestine, by obstruction of the bowels; in the uterus, 2'rostate, and Viladder, by hiemorrhage, or by imjilication of the ureters and kidneys. Independently of their situation, however, those tumours fre- quently cause death by giving rise to a ^irogressive im2)airment of health known as the cancerous cachexia^ a condition which is due to the continued absorption of jioisonous j)roducts from the tumour. The patient loses ai)})etite, becomes emaciated, liale, and feverish, and gradually loses strength until he dies, ajr^Jarently from exhaustion. Treatment.—The only treatment of cancer that affords a prospect of cure is removal by surgical measures. “If carcino- matous disease is to be rooted out, its mode of s^^read by means of the lymphatic vessels must be borne in mind, and as this occurs at an early stage, and is not evident on examination, a very wide area must be included in the operation. The organ from which the original growth springs should, if practicable, be altogether removed, because its lymphatic vessels generally communicate freely with each other, and secondary deposits have 2)robably already taken 2)lace in various parts of it. In addition.