610 DISEASES OF BONE. in the discharge; the formation of a visible sequestrum is ex- ceptional. Shortening and deformity of the finger follow when the bone is destroyed. The differential diagnosis from tuber- culous dactylitis has been described with that disease (p. 604). Chondroma of the phalanges is recognised by the hardness and definition of the tumour, and by the appearances seen with the X-rays. Hydatid Disease of Bone. This rare disease in bone has been studied chiefly by Gangolphe in France and by Targett in this country. It results from the lodgment of the embryos of the tsenia echinococcus, which are conveyed to the marrow by the blood-stream. In contrast to what is observed in hydatids of internal organs such as the liver, the cysts in bone are small, usually about the size of a pin-head, and they are present in enormous numbers diffusely scattered throughout the marrow. The formation of brood capsules and of scolices is exceptional, and booklets are rarely found. The parts of the skeleton most often affected are the articular ends of the long bones, the bodies of the vertebrae, and the bones of the pelvis. As the cysts in the marrow increase in number and in size, the framework of the bone is gradually absorbed, and there result excavations or cavities which contain the hydatids. The marrow and spongy bone first disappear, the compact tissue then becomes thin and perforated, and pathological fracture may result. The bone gradually becomes expanded, and the cysts may escape through perforations into the surrounding cellular tissue, and when thus freed from confinement may attain con- siderable dimensions. Suppuration from sujieradded pyogenic infection is a frequent complication, and it may be attended with extensive necrosis, and lead to disorganisation of the adjacent joint. Clinical Features.—The patient complains, over along period, of deep-seated pains; which, however, are never so severe as in a Brodie’s abscess. In superficial bones, such as the tibia, there is obvious enlargement, and it may be possible to recognise egg-shell crackling, or unequal consistence of the bone, it being hard in some parts, and doughy and elastic in others. The disease may pursue an indolent course during months or years until some complication occurs, such as fracture or suppuration. With the occurrence of suppuration the disease becomes more active, and abscesses may form in the overlying soft parts and in the adjacent joint. In the vertebral column hydatids give rise