534 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. distribution of the anterior crural nerve. The prominence of the great trochanter is lost. Treatment of Dislocations of the Hip.—For the reduction of a dislocation of the hip complete anaesthesia is necessary, and the patient should be placed on a firm mattress on the floor, to give the surgeon the best possible jjurchase upon the limb. The surgeon grasps the ankle with one hand, while the other is placed behind the head of the tibia, the leg being held at right angles to the thigh. An assistant meantime steadies the pelvis by making firm pressure over the iliac crests. As the chief obstacle to reduction is the tension of the ilio- femoral ligament, the first indication is to relax this structure by flexing the hip. In the backward varieties (dorsal and ischiatic) the A-ligament is relaxed by flexing the thigh upon the pelvis in the position of adduction. The thigh is then fully abducted, to cause the head of the bone to retrace its steps forwards towards the rent in the capsule; and at the same time rotated outwards, to relax the rotator muscles. This combined movement tends also to open up the rent in the capsule. Finally, the limb is quickly extended to cause the head to enter the socket. This object is often aided by making vertical traction or lifting movements on the abducted and externally rotated limb before extending. For the reduction of the forward varieties (obturator and pubic), the thigh is first fully flexed on the pelvis, but in the abducted position. The limb is then strongly rotated inward and adducted, and finally extended. Lifting movements may be found useful in these cases also. All methods of reduction by forcible traction on the extended limb are to be avoided, as they fail to meet the primary indica- tion of relaxing the A-ligament. After reduction the limb is steadied by sand-bags; massage is carried out from the first, and movement after a few days. The range of movement is gradually increased, and the patient is allowed to use the limb with caution in from two to three weeks. When the rim of the acetabulum has been fractured, the patient must be confined to bed with extension and a long sjjlint for eight or nine weeks, to avoid the risk of redislocation. Changes of the nature of chronic arthritis are liable to occur in and around the joint in old and rheumatic subjects; and atrophy or paralysis of muscles may follow, if their nerves are injured. ' Old-Standing Dislocations.—It is impossible to lay down