712 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. The indication.s for operative treatment are: — (1) Marked symptoms of destruction of the articular cartilages; (2) a deformed attitude incapable of being rectified without opera- tion ; (.3) a condition of the general health which requires that the disease should be got rid of by the most rapid method; (4) progress or persistence of the disease in spite of conservative treatment; (5) relapse of the disease after apparent cure. In patients under fifteen years of age, the operation of arthrectomy is to be selected. It consists in removing the tuberculous synovial membrane, and, if the articular surfaces are affected, paring them with a strong knife. Above the age of fifteen, the joint is excised; the ends of the bones are removed with the saw, and diseased soft structures with the knife or scissors. Amputation is performed irrespective of age when the disease has relapsed after operation with persistent suppui’ation, and when life is threatened by the occurrence of tuberculosis in the lungs or elsewhere. Treatment of Deformities resulting from Antecedent Disease of the Knee.—When the articular surfaces are fairly preserved, and the flexion is due to contracture of the posterior part of the capsule and other structures in the popliteal space, these should be divided through an oblique incision made from above downwards across the space. If forcible correction is at- tempted without cutting, it must be carried out in stages. When there is fibrous or osseous ankylosis in the Hexed position, and no hope of a movable joint, a more extensive operation is necessary. In adults this consists in removing a wedge of bone. In patients who are still growing, it may be possible to straighten the limb by a modified arthrectomy and the removal of a thin slice of bone, or by dividing the femur above the joint. The alternative is to wait until the patient is nearly fully grown, and then remove a wedge of bone. Pyogenic diseases result from infection through the blood- stream, from the spread of infection from one of the ad- jacent bones, or from a penetrating wound of the joint. The clinical features, while varying in acuteness and severity, always include well-marked local signs, effusion into the synovial cavity being a prominent and easily recognised feature. The commoner types include the serous synovitis associated with disease in the adjacent bone, acute arthritis of infants, joint su2ipuration in j^yiemia, septic arthritis following upon ^penetrating wounds, and the affections which result from gonorrhoeal or jpneumococcal infection.