COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. 437 Failing this, however, tlie muscles may be wearied out by the surgeon making steady and prolonged traction on the limb, while an assistant makes counter-extension on the proximal segment of the joint. Advantage may also be taken of such muscular re- laxation as occurs when the patient becomes faint, or when his attention is diverted from the injured part, to carry out the manipulations necessary to restore the bone to its normal position. The api>ropriate manoeuvres for disengaging the head of the bone from tendons, ligaments, or bony processes with which it may be entangled, will be suggested by a consitleration of the anatomy of the particular joint involved, and will be described with individual dislocations. It cannot be urged too strongly that any mechanical apparatus in the form of pulleys, levers, or fulcra is only to be used in exceptional cases and with the greatest care and caution. In reducing a dislocation no amount of physical force will compensate for a want of anatomical knowledge. All tugging, twisting, or wrenching movements are to be avoided, as they are liable to cause damage to blood-ve.ssels, nerves, or other soft parts, or even—and especially in old people—to fracture one of the bones concerned. In the after treatment much Irenefit is gained by the systematic use of massage] before any restraining apparatus is applied tlie whole region around the joint should be gently stroked in a centripetal direction for fifteen or twenty minutes ; and this is to be repeated daily, each sitting lasting for from twenty minutes to half an hour. From the first day onward movement of the joint is carried out in every direction, except that which tends to bring the head of the bone against the injured part of the capsule ; and the patient is encouraged to use the joint as early as possible. The approi>riate ai)paratus and the period during which it should be worn will be considered with the individual dislocations. Operation in Simple Dislocations.—In a limited number of cases, even with the aid of an antesthetic, reduction by maniimla- tion is found to be impossible. Resort must then be had to operation, which under aseptic conditions is a comparatively safe and satisfactory proceeding, although often difficult. It may happen that the undoing of the displacement is only possible after the removal of a portion of one or other of the bones. Compound Dislocations.—Compound dislocations are usually the result of extreme violence produced by machinery or railway accidents, or by falls from great heights. In the majority of cases they are complicated by fracture of one or more of the constituent