INJUEIES. 232 metal may lodge in the tissues, and if infected cause septic complications. All such injuries are to be treated on the general principles governing contused and lacerated wounds. Bukns and Scalds. A burn results from the application of dry heat to the tissues of the body; and a scald from the application of moist heat. This distinction, however, has no clinical importance. Burns are most frequently produced by flames—as, for example, when a child’s clothes catch fire; by gas, paraffin, or gunpowder explosions; or by contact with molten metal or hot solids. Electricity and exposure to Ebntgen rays also produce similar lesions. Scalding is usually due to contact with boiling ffuids, or to the escape of steam in boiler explosions. In young and debilitated subjects hot poultices may produce injuries of this kind. It is an interesting fact that in old people with enfeebled circulation mere exposure before a strong fire may produce severe degrees of burning, the clothes covering the part being uninjured. This may occur about the feet, legs, or knees, the patient usually having fallen asleep before the fire while intoxicated. The damage done to the tissues by strong caustics, such as fuming nitric acid, sulphuric acid, caustic potash, nitrate of silver, or arsenical paste, presents pathological and clinical features almost identical with those resulting from heat. Pathology of Burns. — Much discussion has taken place regarding the explanation of the rapidly fatal issue in extensive superficial burns. On post-mortem examination the lesions found in these cases are: (1) general hyperaemia of all the organs of the abdominal, thoracic, and cerebro-spinal cavities; (2) marked leucocytosis, with destruction of red corpuscles, setting free haemoglobin which lodges in the epithelial cells of the tubules of the kidneys; (3) minute thrombi and extravasa- tions throughout the tissues of the body; (4) degeneration of the ganglion cells of the solar plexus ; (5) general oedema and degeneration of all the lymphoid tissue throughout the body; (6) cloudy swelling of the liver and kidneys, and softening and enlargement of the spleen. Bardeen suggests that these morbid phenomena correspond so closely to those met with where the presence of a toxin is known to produce them, that in all