249 CHAPTER XIV. THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Anatomy — Injuries of Arteries: Varieties—Injuries of Veins: Air Emholism—Kepair of Blood-vessels and natural arrest of hsemorrhage—Haemorrhage: Varieties; Prevention; Arrest—Con- stitutional effects of liffiinorrliage — Haemophilia — Diseases of Blood-vessels: Thrombosis; Embolism—Arteritis: Varieties; Atheroma — Thrombo - phlebitis — Phlebitis : Varieties — Varix — Angiomata—Naevus : Varieties; Electrolysis—Cirsoid Aneurysm —Aneurysm: Varieties; Methods of Treatment—Aneurysms of Individual Arteries. Surgical Anatomy.—An artery has three coats: an internal coat — the tunica intima—made uji of a single layer of endothelial cells lining the lumen ; outside of this a layer of delicate connective tissue ; and still further out a dense tissue composed of longitudinally arranged elastic fibres—the internal elastic lamina. The tunica intima is easily ruptured. The middle coat, or tunica media, consists of non- striped muscular fibres arranged for the most jiart concentrically round the vessel. In this coat also there is a considerable proportion of elastic tissue, especially in the larger vessels. The thickness of the vessel wall depends chielly on the development of the muscular coat. The external coat, or tunica adventitia, is comjiosed of fibrous tissue, containing, especially in vessels of medium calibre, some yellow elastic fibres in its deeper layers. In most parts of the body the arteries lie in a sheath of connective tissue, from which fine fibrous processes pass to the tunica adventitia. The connection, however, is not a close one, and the artery when divided transversely is capable of retracting for a considerable distance within its sheath. In some of the larger arteries the sheath assumes the form of a definite membrane. The arteries are nourished by small vessels—the vascc vaso?-um— which ramify chielly in the outer coat. They are also well supplied with nerves which regulate the size of the lumen by inducing contraction or relaxation of the muscular coat. The vems are constructed on the same general plan as the arteries, the individual coats, however, being thinner. The inner coat is less easily ruptured, and the middle coat contains a smaller proportion of muscular tissue. In one important point veins differ structurally from arteries—namely, in being provided with valves which prevent reflux of