CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 103 the knee by means of a circular incision carried round the limb, about three inches below the tubercle of the tibia, the joint being fully extended (A. G. Miller). Gritti’s supra-condylar amputation is also suitable. Htemorrhage is easily controlled by digital pressure, and the use of a tourniquet should be dispensed with, as the constriction of the liml) is liable to interfere uuth the vitality of the flaps. When the tibial vessels can be felt i)ulsating at the ankle it may be justifiable, if the patient urgently desires it, to amputate lower than the knee; but in the great majority of cases gangrene recurs in the stump and necessitates a second operation. That amputation for senile gan- grene performed between the ankle and the knee seldom succeeds, is ex- plained by the fact that the vascular obstruction is usually in the ui)per jrart of the po.sterior tibial artery, and the operation is therefore performed through tissues with an inadequate blood-supply. It is not uncommon, indeed, on amputating above the knee to find even the popliteal artery plugged by a clot. This should be removed by squeezing the vessel from above downward by a “ milking ” movement, or by “ catheterising the artery ” with the aid of a cannula with a terminal aperture. It is to be borne in mind that the object in amputating in these cases is merely to remove the gangrenous part, and so to relieve the patient of the discomfort and the risks from sepsis which its presence involves. While it is true that in spite of the feeble condition of many of these patients, the operation is borne remarkably well, provided it is done early and before the patient is worn out by pain and want of sleep, a guarded opinion should be expressed as to the period during which the patient will sur- vive the operation. The risk of the other limb subsequently becoming gangrenous has already been referred to. Diabetic Gangrene.—This form of gangrene is specially prone to occur in patients over fifty years of age avIio sufier from diabetes mellitus. It is seldom associated with diabetes insipidus. In .some cases the existence of the diabetes is unsuspected before the onset of the gangrene. The gangrenous Fig. 25. — Diabetic Gangrene. Glycosuria un.su.spected till Gangrene developed.