175 ACQUIEED SYPHILIS. wash-leather, or whitish, like boiled fish. Unlike the contents of a tuberculous abscess, the degenerated tissue of a gumma separates slowly and gradually, and may be visible for weeks in the floor of the ulcer. The tertiary ulcer may be situated anywhere, but is most frequently met with on the legs, especially in the region of the knee (Fig. 37) and over the calf. There may be one or more ulcers, and there may be scars of antecedent ulcers. The edges are sharply cut, as if punched out; the margins are rounded in outline, firm, and congested •, the base is occupied by gummatous tissue, or, if this has already separated and sloughed out, by unhealthy granulations and a thick purulent discharge. When the ulcer has healed it leaves a scar which is depressed, and if over a bone, is adherent to it. The features of the tertiary ulcer, however, are not always so characteristic as the above description would imply. It is to be diagnosed from the “leg ulcer ” which occurs almost exclusively on the lower third of the leg; from Bazin’s disease (p. 79); from the ulcers which result from certain forms of malignant disease, such as rodent cancer, and finally from those met with in chronic glanders. Gummatous Infiltration of the A/rm (“syphilitic lupus”).— This is a lesion, met with chiefly in the face and in the region of the external genitals, in which the skin becomes infiltrated with granulation tissue so that it is thickened, raised above the surface, and of a brownish-red colour. It appears as isolated nodules, which may fuse together; the epidermis becomes scaly and is shed, giving rise to superficial ulcers which are usually covered by crusted discharge. The disease tends to spread, creeping over the skin with a serpiginous, crescentic or horseshoe margin, while the central portion may heal and leave a scar. When untreated the lesion is a very persistent and destructive one. From the fact of its healing in the centre while it spreads at the margin, it may simulate tuberculous disease of the skin. The syphilitic affection can usually be differentiated by observing that the infiltration of the skin is on a larger scale; the progress of the disease is much more rapid, involving in the course of months an area which in the case of tuberculosis would require as many years; the scars formed are sounder and are less liable to break down again; and, finally, the disease rapidly yields to anti-syphilitic treatment. Tertiary lesions of mucous membranes and of the submucous cellular tissue are met with chiefly in the tongue, nose, throat, larynx, and rectum. They originate as gummata or as gum- matous infiltrations which are liable to break down and lead to