720 THE DEFOEMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. amnii. The lower extremities of the foetus in %tero being flexed and adducted, the elastic pressure of the wall of the uterus displaces the head of the femur past the acetabulum. The acetabulum, being unoccupied, does not develop properly, but remains flattened and shallow, so that when the child comes to put its weight on the limb, the head of the femur is pushed upwards and lies against the ilium. The greater frequency of the dislocation in girls is probably due to the fact that in the female foetus the acetabulum faces the lateral aspect of the pelvis, while in the male it is directed more forwards. Pathological Anatomy.—The anatomical changes in the parts concerned vary in children of different ages. At birth, the head of the femur lies just above the acetabulum, and it is often elongated or conical, sometimes its articular surface is uneven, and a little depressed in relation to the great trochanter. The acetabulum is narrow, elongated, and shallow, and is often partly filled up with fat and connective tissue. In children who have reached the stage of walking, the head is pushed further and further upwards under the influence of the weight of the body, until it comes to lie just outside the anterior superior spine. The acetabnlum becomes triangular with the apex above and behind. In contrast to what is ob- served in traumatic dislocations, a new socket is very rarely formed, because the head of the femur is separated from the ilium by the thickened capsule of the joint. With increasing years the neck of the femur becomes atrophied, and forms with the shaft an angle which approaches a right angle. The capsular ligament becomes unusually thick and elongated, and may assume an hour-glass shape as a result of the play of the head of the femur. The ligamentum teres is frequently absent in bilateral cases, but when present, as it nearly always is in unilateral dislocation, it is elongated and strongly developed. The muscles undergo important alter- ations both in length and direction ; those which pass more or less horizontally from the pelvis to the trochanter are elongated, while those which run longitudinally, including the adductors and hamstrings, are shortened. Clinical Features.—The condition rarely attracts attention until the child begins to walk, and this may be delayed until the age of two or even three years. In unilateral dislocation there is a decided limp and shortening of the limb on the affected side. The limp in walking is due not only to the head of the bone sliding upwards on the ilium, but also to the alteration in the direction of the