233 BUBNS AND SCALDS. probability death is similarly due to the action of some poison, the source and nature of which are as yet unknown. Clinical Features.—Local Phenomena.—The most generally accepted classification of burns is that of Dupuytren, which is based upon the depth of the lesion. Six degrees are thus recognised: (1) hyperiumia or erythema; (2) vesication; (3) partial destruction of the true skin; (4) total destruction of the true skin ; (5) charring of muscles; (6) charring of bones. It must be observed, however, that burns met with at the bedside always illustrate more than one of these degrees. The deeper forms are always associated with those less deep, and the clinical picture is made irp of the combined characters of all. A burn is classified in terms of its most severe portion. It is also to be remarked that the extent and severity of a burn usually prove to be greater than at first sight appears. Burns of the first degree are associated with erythema of the skin, due to hyperremia of its blood-vessels, and result from scorching by flame, from contact with solids or fluids below 212° F., or from exposure to the sun’s rays. They are charac- terised clinically by acute i)ain, redness, transitory swelling from oozing of serum into the tissues, and subsequent des- quamation of the surface layers of the epidermis. Burns of Second Degree—Vesication, of the Skin.—These are characterised by the occurrence of vesicles or blisters which are scattered over the hypermmic area, and contain a clear yellowish or brownish fluid. On removing the raised epidermis the con- gested and highly sensitive papillre of the skin are exposed. Unna has found that pyogenic bacteria are invariably present in these blisters. Burns of the second degree leave no per- manent scar but frequently a persistent discoloration. In rare instances the burned area becomes the seat of keloid. Burns of Third Degree—Partial Destruction of the True Skin.—The epidermis and papillte are destroyed in patches, leaving hard, dry, and insensitive sloughs of a yellow or black colour. The pain in these burns is intense, but passes off during the first or second day, to return again, however, when, about the end of a week, the sloughs separate and expose the nerve filaments of the underlying skin. Granulations spring up to fill the gap, and are rapidly covered by epithelium, derived partly fi'om the margins and partly from the remains of skin glands which have not been completely destroyed. These latter aj^pear on the surface of the granula- tions as small bluish islets which gradually increase in size, become of a greyish-white colour, and ultimately blend with one