290 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. between the coats of the vessel—sometimes between the intima and media, but usually into the substance of the media—and so form a cul-de-sac in the substance of the vessel wall. This is spoken of as a dissecting aneurysm. In as much as it always originates in the aorta, and is confined to the large branches in the thorax and abdomen, this variety of aneurysm has no surgical importance. Clinical Features of Aneurysm.—Surgically, the sacculated is by far the most important variety of aneurysm. The out- standing clinical feature is the existence in the line of an artery of a more or less globular swelling, which pulsates, and with each pulsation expands. The expansion is detected by observing that when both hands are placed over the swelling they are separated with each beat of the heart. If the main artery be compressed on the cardiac side of the swelling, the pulsation is arrested and the tumour becomes smaller and less tense, and it may be still further reduced in size by making gentle pressure over it so as to empty it of fluid blood. On allowing the blood again to flow through the artery, after one or two beats of the heart the sac fills up and the expansile pulsation returns. In most cases a distinct thrill is felt on placing the hand over the swelling, and a blowing, systolic murmur may be heard with the stethoscoi^e. It is to be borne in mind that occasionally, when the interchange of blood between an aneurysm and the artery from which it arises is small, pulsation and bruit may be very slight or even absent. This is also the case when the sac contains a considerable quantity of clot. When it becomes filled with clot [consolidated aneurysm) these signs disappear, and the clinical features are those of a solid tumour lying in contact with an artery. A comparison of the pulse in the artery beyond the seat of the aneurysm with that in the artery on the healthy side, shows that on the affected side the wave is smaller in volume, and somewhat delayed in time. A pulse tracing shows that the normal impulse and dicrotic waves are lost, and that the force and rapidity of the tidal wave are diminished. An aneurysm exerts pressure on the surrounding parts, which are usually thickened and adherent to it and to one another. Adjacent veins may be so compressed that congestion and oedema of the parts beyond are produced. Pain, disturbances of sensation, and muscular paralyses may result from pressure on nerves. Considerable portions of bone may undergo atrophy and be absorbed by the gradually increasing pressure, as is most typically seen in the sternum and vertebrae. Cartilage, on the