397 BURSITIS. cutaneous tissue over it. It is frequently met -with in the olecranon bursa after a fall on the elbow, or in the prepatellar bursa from a similar injury. There is redness of the skin, great swelling and oedema of the part, and, if untreated, the septic process may transgress the wall of the bursa, invade the surrounding cellular tissue, and spread up and down the limb. The condition may simulate erysipelas. Tuberculous disease of bursm closely resembles that of tendon sheaths. It may occur as an independent affection, or may be associated with tuberculous disease in an adjacent bone or joint. It is met with chiefly in the prepatellar and subdeltoid bursae, or in one of the bursae over the great trochanter. The clinical features are those of an indolent hydrops, with or without melon-seed bodies, or of uniform thickening of the wall of the bursa, which sometimes breaks down into a cold abscess and gives rise to persistent sinuses. The best treatment is to excise the affected bursa, or, where this is impracticable, to lay it freely open, remove the tuberculous tissue with the sharp spoon, and treat the resulting cavity by the open method. Syphilitic disease is rarely recognised except in the form of bursal and peri-bursal gummata in front of the knee-joint. Tumours of bursse include the fibroma, the myxoma, the myeloma or giant-celled tumour, and various forms of sarcoma. They present the same clinical features, and are treated on the same lines, as similar tumours elsewhere. Diseases of Individual Bursae.—In the upper extremity, the olecranon bursa is frequently the seat of traumatic or trade bursitis and the affection is known as “miner’s” or “student’s elbow.” The subdeltoid bursa may be distended with fluid as a result of trauma or tuberculous disease, and form a painful swelling on the outer aspect of the shoulder (Codman). The bursa underneath the tendon of the subscajmlaris muscle when inflamed causes alteration in the attitude of the shoulder and impairment of its movements. An adventitious bursa forms over the acromion process in porters and others who carry weights on the shoulder and may be the seat of traumatic bursitis. The bursa under the radial tendon of the biceps, when the seat of disease, is attended with pain and swelling at the insertion of the biceps tendon about a finger- breadth below the bend of the elbow ■, there is pain and difficulty in effecting the combined movement of flexion and supination, slight limitation of extension, and restriction of pronation. In the lower extremity a large number of normal and adventitious bursae are met with. That over the tubei'osity of