212 . TUMOURS. Regarding the further life-history of hydatids, the living elements of the cyst may die and degenerate, or the cyst may increase in size until it rnptures. As a resnlt of pyogenic infection the cyst may be converted into an abscess. The clinical features of hydatids vary so much with their situation and size that they are best discussed with the surgery of the individual organs. In general it may be said that there is a slow and steady formation of a globular, elastic, fluctuating, painless swelling. Fluctuation is detected when the cyst ap- proaches the surface, and it is then also that percussion may elicit the “ hydatid thrill ” or fremitus. This thrill is not often obtainable, and in any case is not pathognomonic of hydatids, as it may be elicited in ascites and in tense abdominal or pelvic cysts. Pressure of the cyst upon adjacent structures, and the occurrence of suppuration, are attended with characteristic clinical features. The diagnosis of hydatids will be considered with the indi- vidual organs. The disease is more common in Australia and in Iceland than in countries where the association of dogs in the domestic life of the inhabitants is less intimate. The treatment consists in completely excising the cyst, or when this is imjsracticable, in incising its wall and removing the contents. The question of the exploratory puncture of hydatid cysts is considered in relation to hydatids of the liver. Blood cysts may result from the encapsulation of extravasated blood in the tissues, from haemorrhage taking place into a pre-formed cyst, or from the saccular pouching of a varicose vein. Lymph cysts may result from contusions in which the skin is forcibly displaced from the subjacent tissues whereby lym- phatic vessels are torn across. The cyst is usually situated between the skin and fascia and contains clear or blood-stained serum. . At first it is lax and fluctuates readily, later it becomes larger and more tense. In contrast to haemorrhagic effusions there is little tendency to absorption. The treatment consists in drawing off the contents through a hollow needle and apply- ing firm pressure. These cysts were formerly confused with blood cysts; their true nature was first recognised by Gegen- bauer. Apart from injury, lymph cysts are met with as the result of the distension of lymphatic spaces and vessels (lymphangiectasis); and in the lymphangiomata, of which the best-known example is the cystic hygroma or hydrocele of the neck.