547 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE. .space, while the lower end of the femur prf)ject,s forward with the patella either in front or to one side of it. The lateral dislocations are generally incomi>lete. In the inward variety the outer condyle forms a prominence, with a depression over the normal position of the heads of the tibia and filmla; in the oidward, the bones of the leg project on the outer side, the depression being above them. Treatment.—These dislocations differ from most others in that no special manipulations are necessary to restore the dis- [)laced bone to its [dace, and that reduction does not take place with a distinct snaj). If the patient is fully anmsthetised, while traction is made on the leg and counter-traction on the thigh with the knee iiv the hexed position, reduction can usually be effected Ijy nianij)u- lating the bones into position. In antero-posterior dislocations the limb should be flexed and placed on a pillow, movement and massage being employed from the first. The patient is usually able to walk about within a month. In lateral dislocations, after reduction has been effected, there is at first considerable tendency to redisplacement, and it is therefore nece.ssary to secure the joint in a box splint for about fourteen days, after which massage and movement are employed. It is usually about six weeks l>efore the patient can use the limb with freedom. In comi)Ound dislocations, and in those complicated by injury to the jjopliteal vessels, the (Question of amputation has to be considered. Dislocation of the Superior Tibio Fibular Articulation.— This joint may be dislocated by twisting forms of violence applied to the foot or leg, or by forcible contraction of the biceps muscle. The disi)lacement may be forward or backward, and the head of the fibula can be felt in its new position with the prominent tendon of the biceps attached to it. The move- ments of the knee are (juite free, but the patient is unable to walk on account of pain. Reduction and retention are, as a rule, easy, and the ultimate result satisfactory. We have frequently met with this injury accompanying compound fractures of both bones of the leg resulting from railway and similar accidents. By applying direct pressure over the displaced bone with the knee flexed, the dislocation is easily reduced. It is kept in posi- tion by a few strips of adhesive plaster, a firm bandage, or a light rigid .splint, such as poroplastic or Croft’s plaster-of-Faris splint.