DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC VESSELS. 317 it is called a cy&tic lymphangioma or lymphatic cyst. It is probable that the cysts are derived from the caverns by the breaking down and absorption of the intervening septa, and transition forms between the cavernous and cystic varieties are frequently met with. They are probably all of congenital origin, and they usually appear at or shortly after birth. They are rarely provided with a definite capsule, and they frequently send prolongations of their substance between and into muscles and other structures in their vicinity. The cavernous lymphangioma appears as an ill-defined soft swelling presenting many of the characters of the subcutaneous angioma, but it is not capable of being emptied by pressure, the skin over it is normal, and if the tumour is punctured with an exploring needle it will yield lymph instead of blood. It also resembles a congenital lipoma, especially one growing from the periosteum, and the differential diagnosis is rarely completed until the swelling is punctured or explored by operation. The cystic lymphangioma presents all the features of a cystic tumour. It is most often met with in the neck, springing from beneath the deej) fascia, and projecting either in front of or behind the sterno-mastoid. It may attain a very large size, in which case the cyst wall may be so thin as to be translucent. It is also known under the names of hydrocele of the neck and congenital cystic hygroma. When it occurs on the floor of the mouth, it constitutes one form of ranula. It is also met with in the axilla (Fig. 69). These swellings are distinguished from dermoids by having thinner walls, and in being less definitely circumscribed. A remarkable feature is their liability to attacks of inflammation, which are usually followed by shrinkage and disappearance of the swelling. Sometimes the cystic variety is converted into an abscess—another, although less desirable method of cure. Those situated in the neck are most liable to become inflamed, probably because of pyogenic infection being brought to them by lymphatic vessels from the scalp, ear, or throat. The frequency of spontaneous cure explains the rarity of such cysts after puberty. Treatment.—The cavernous lymphangioma may be left alone, or may be subjected to electrolysis, ignipuncture, or excision. Complete excision is rarely possible, because of the want of definition and encapsulation. The cystic form may be injected with iodine, or tapped and drained, or it may be excised.