470 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. of the fragments is reversed. Undue mobility, deformity, crepitus, and the other signs of fracture are evident, and the patient himself usually recognises that the bone is broken. The nerve-trunks in the upper arm, particularly the median, ulnar, and musculo-spiral, are apt to be damaged in these injuries. In fractures of the lower part of the shaft the musculo-spiral nerve is specially liable to be implicated. This may occur at the time of the injury, the nerve being contused y the force causing the fracture, or pressed upon by one or other of the fragments, or its fibres may be partially or com- pletely torn across. Later it may become involved in callus, or be damaged by the pressure of ill-fitting splints. Weakness or 2)aralysis of the extensors of the wrist and hand results, giving rise to the characteristic “ wrist-drop.” The actions of the muscles should always be tested before applying splints, and each time the apparatus is removed or readjusted, to ensure that no undue pressure is being exerted on the nerves. In this way the practitioner will recognise the nerve lesion as soon as it occurs, and will guard himself against actions for malpraxis should paralysis of the muscles ensue. Union takes place in from four to six weeks in adults, and in from three to four weeks in children. Delayed union, or want of union and the formation of a false joint, is more common in fractures of the middle of the shaft of the humerus than in any other long bone. This is largely due to the frequency with which soft structures come to lie between the fragments. Arrest of growth in the bone from injury to the nutrient artery is also said to have occurred. Treatment.—In treating a fracture of the shaft of the humerus the possibility of non-union should always be kept in mind. Reduction is effected, by the aid of a general anaesthetic if necessary, care being taken that no soft tissue intervenes between the fragments. The appearances seen with the X-rays may yield information on this point, a clear space persisting between the fragments even when they are pushed together. The local splint to control the fracture is applied in the form of a ferrule surrounding the bone. This may consist of several short, narrow pieces of wood secured by a bandage or strap and Fig. 126.—Gooch Splints for Frac- ture of Shaft of Humerus ; and rectangular .splint to secure elbow.