402 INJURIES OF BONES. FRACTURES A fracture may be defined as a sudden and violent solution in the continuity of a bone. Pathological or Spontaneous Fractures. A pathological or spontaneous fracture has as its primary cause some definite pathological state of the bone, which permits of its giving way on the application of a force which would be quite insufficient to break a healthy bone, and which merely hastens its complete severance. The following conditions may be mentioned as predisposing to pathological fracture. Atrophy of bone may proceed to such an extent in old people, or in those who for long periods have been bed-ridden, that the slightest violence suffices to determine a fracture. This most frequently occurs in the neck of the femur in old women, the mere exertion of turning in bed being sometimes sufficient to cause the break. Atrophy from the pressure of an aneurysm or of a simple tumour may erode the whole thickness of a bone, or may thin it out to such an extent that very slight force is sufficient to break it. In general paralytics, and in patients in the advanced stages of locomotor ataxia and other chronic diseases of the nervous system, an eccentric atrophy of all the bones sometimes takes place, and may jiroceed so far that multiple fractures are induced by trifling causes. They occur painlessly, most frequently in the ribs or long bones of the limbs, and usually unite satisfactorily, although with an excessive amount of callus. Attendants and nurses must be warned against using force in handling such patients, as other- wise they may be unfairly blamed for causing these fractures. Fragilitas ossium is the name applied to a condition, often hereditary, and frequently met with in infants, in which all the bones of the body are excessively fragile, and favour the occurrence of multiple fractures, which usually heal with con- siderable deformity. Rickets and scurvy may be attended with a similar fragility of the bones. Osteo-myelitis, tuberculous and syphilitic disease, and certain tumours, especially sarcomata growing in the interior of bones, predispose to fracture. Indeed, it is not unusual for the sudden breaking of the bone to be the first intimation of the existence of the tumour. Intra-uterine fractures and fractures occurring dtiring birth