DISEASES OF MUSCLE AND TENDONS. 389 Lastly, there is the interesting generalised disease—pro- fP'essive ossifyinf/ myositis—in which the muscles, tendons, and fascise throughout the body become the seat of ossification. It affects almost exclusively the male sex, aud is sometimes associated with congenital deformities of the fingers and toes. It usually begins in childhood or youth, sometimes after an injury, sometimes without any apparent cause. The muscles of the back, especially the trapezius and latissimus, are the first to be affected, and the initial complaint may be of limitation of movement. On examination the bony nodules are seen and felt, and they may be shown in skiagrams. In the first instance they have no con- nection with the periosteum. As time goes on these bony nodules increase in number and size, and tend to fuse into larger masses. The spine becomes rigid, the head is bent forward, the hips are flexed, and abduction and other movements of the arms limited. The disease progresses by fits and starts until all the striped muscles of the body may be ossified, and all movements, even those of the jaws, may be abolished. It is generally fatal within ten or twelve years from its onset, death usually resulting from pulmonary complications. There is no means of arresting the disease, and surgical treatment is restricted to the removal of any mass of bone which interferes with an important movement. The osseous tissue found in muscle is derived from its con- nective tissue framework, the muscle fibres themselves undergoing atrophy and absorption. The bone is spongy in character, and its development takes place along similar lines to those normally observed in the periosteum. Tumours of Muscle.—With the exception of certain rare congenital varieties, such as the rhabdomyoma, tumours of muscle grow from the connective-tissue framework and not from the muscle fibres. Innocent tumours, such as the fibroma, lipoma, angioma, and neuro-fibroma, are very rare. Malignant tumours may be primary in the muscle, or may result from extension from adjacent growths—for example, implication of the pectoral muscle in cancer of the breast—or may be derived by metastasis from tumours situated elsewhere. The diagnosis of an intramuscular tumour is made by observing that the swelling is situated beneath the deep fascia, and that it becomes firm and fixed when the muscle is contracted. When the muscle is relaxed, the tumour becomes softer, and can be moved in the transverse axis of the muscle, but not in its long axis. The same remarks apply to a gumma or mass of bone within the muscle. Clinical interest chiefly attaches to that form of slowly growing fibro-sarcoma—the recurrent fibroid of Paget—which