58 SUPPURATION. Treatment. — The treatment of diffuse cellulitis is early and free incision of the affected area. It is not necessary, nor even advisable, to wait until there is evidence of pus formation before using the knife, as incision will limit, or may even prevent, suppuration. If one incision does not command the whole area involved, others must be made, care being taken that they are placed so as not to injure important vessels and nerves. The pus is gently squeezed from the meshes of the tissues, and, where it is deemed advisable, the whole surface of the wound may be sponged over with pure carbolic acid. Drainage tubes are inserted, or iodoform gauze lightly packed into the wound, and an ordinary antiseptic dressing applied, to be renewed at least once daily until granulations are formed and the risk of further sjjread is past. In cases where the temperature remains raised, and other signs of septic absorption persist after incisions have been made, benefit may result from the continuous irrigation of the part by a slow, steady stream of a mild antiseptic lotion, at the body temperature, such as boracic acid or permanganate of potash. Frequent washing with sulphurous acid or peroxide of hydrogen (10 vols. strength) has been found to be of value in such cases. The method of treating these cases by continuous immersion in a water-bath containing antiseptics has its advocates, but it is a method which is very liable to be misused and to do harm. Elevation of the affected part diminishes the passive oedema and the pain ; but it is necessary to take care that it in no way interferes with drainage, and that it does not facilitate the spread of the pus farther up the limb. A suitably arranged splint adds to the comfort of the patient. The limb should be placed in the attitude which, in the event of stiffness resulting, will least interfere with its usefulness. The elbow, for example, should be flexed to a little less than a right angle ; at the wrist, the hand should be dorsiffexed and the fingers flexed slightly towards the palm. The rapidity with which the process is arrested and repair takes place after prompt and vigorous treatment is often re- markable. Massage, passive movement, hot and cold douching, and other measures, may be necessary to get rid of the chronic oedema, adhesions of tendons, and stiffness of joints which so often remain after cellulitis. In all cases the toxaemia must be counteracted by the ad-