THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 252 Open Wounds of Arteries—Laceration.—Laceration of large arteries is a common complication of severe machinery and railway accidents. The violence being usually of a tearing, twisting, or crushing nature, such injuries are seldom associated with much haemorrhage, as torn or crushed vessels quickly become occluded by contraction and retraction of their coats and by the formation of a clot. A whole limb even may be completely avulsed from the body with comparatively little loss of blood. The great risk in such cases is secondary haemorrhage resulting from septic infection. The treatment is that applicable to all infected wounds, with, in addition,- the ligation of the lacerated vessels. Punctured wounds of blood-vessels may result from stabs, or they may be accidentally inflicted in the course of an operation. The division of the coats of the vessel being incomplete, the natural haemostasis which results from curling up of the intima and contraction of the media fails to take place, and bleeding goes on externally and into the surrounding tissues. If the sheath of the vessel is not widely damaged, the gradually increasing tension of the extravasated blood retained within it may ultimately arrest the escape from the vessel. A clot then forms between the lips of the wound in the vessel wall and projects for a short distance into the lumen, without, however, materially interfering with the flow through the vessel. The organisation of this clot may result in the healing of the wound in the vessel wall. In other cases the blood escapes beyond the sheath and infiltrates the surrounding tissues, and an aneurysm results. Secondary haemorrhage may occur if the wound becomes septic. The treatment consists in enlarging the external wound sufficiently to enable it to be purified, and to permit of the damaged vessel being ligatured above and below the puncture. In some cases it may be possible to suture the opening in the vessel wall. When circumstances prevent this treatment being carried out, the bleeding may be arrested by making firm pressure over the wound with a pad. This procedure, how- ever, is liable to be followed by the formation of an aneurysm. Incised Wounds.—We here refer only to such incised wounds as partially divide the vessel wall. Longitudinal incised wounds show little tendency to gape, and are therefore not attended with much bleeding. They usually heal rapidly, but, like punctured wounds, are liable to be followed by the formation of an aneurysm. When, however, the incision in the vessel wall is oblique or