NEUROMATA. 341 not make its appearance till adolescence or even till adult life. It is sometimes met with in several members of one family. It is recognised clinically by the presence of multiple tumours in the course of the nerves, and sometimes by palijable enlargement of the superficial nerve-trunks (Fig. 7’2). The tumours closely resemble the solitary trunk neuromata, and they often remain quite insensitive. As a result of injury or other exciting cause, however, one or other tumour may increase in size and become extremely sensitive. The pain is much increased by handling, and may interfere with sleep. Motor disturb- ances are exceptional, unless in the case of tumours within the spinal canal, which sometimes cause paraplegia. Neuro- fibromatosis is frequently ac- companied by ingmentation of the skin in the form of brown spots or patches. The disease is often sta- tionary for long periods. In progressive cases the jJatient becomes exhausted, and usually dies of some inter- current affection, particularly phthisis. The treatment is re- stricted to relieving symptoms and complications. In a considerable propor- tion of cases one or other of the multiple tumours takes on the characters of a growth (“secondary malignant neuroma,” Garre). This malig nant transformation may follow upon injury, or on the incomplete removal of the tumour. The features are those of a rapidly growing sarcoma involving a nerve-trunk, with agonising pain and muscular cramps, followed by paralysis from destruction of the nerve fibres. The removal of the tumour is usually followed by recurrence both in the nerve affected and in other nerves, so that high amputation is the only treatment to be recommended. Metastasis to internal organs is exceptional. There are certain special types of neuro-fibromatosis which require brief mention. The plexiform neuroma (Fig. 73) is a fibromatosis confined to Fig. 73.—Plexiform Neuroma of small Sciatic Nerve, from a girl aged 16. (Mr. Aimandale’s case.) malignant