468 INJURIES OF SHOULDER AND UPPER ARM. intractability of tbe patient. General anaesthesia is almost always necessary to secure satisfactory reduction, and retention is often only possible if the patient is confined to bed with the upper arm fixed in the abducted position. Operative treatment is more frequently called for than in fracture of the surgical neck. In some cases it is possible to replace the fragments and fix them in position by pegs or wire ; more frequently resection of the upper end of n the diaphysis is necessary before they can be approximated; and in some cases it has even been found necessary to remove the epiphysis. Fractures of the Head, Anatomical Neck, and Tuberosities of Humerus.— These fractures are met with as accom- paniments of dislocation of the shoulder, and as results of gun-shot injuries, blows, or falls. In sub-coracoid dislocation the head of the humerus is often indented by coming in contact with the anterior edge of the glenoid cavity. The aymtomical neck may be fractured by a direct blow on the shoulder in an old person. In a few cases the fracture is entirely intra-capsular, the head of the bone remaining loose in the cavity of the joint. As a rule, however, the fracture passes through the anatomical neck only on 'i the -inner^ side, diverging into the . tuberosities externally. In some cases ‘"'lipiir ArirS > impaction, and in others corn- jury to Upper Epi- minution of the fragments. The use of physis in Childhood. the X-rays has shown that in many cases in which prolonged stiffness has followed a severe blow over the shoulder there has been a fracture of the anatomical neck. The tuberosities may be implicated in other fractures in this region; and either of them may be separated by muscular con- traction or by direct violence. Clinically all these injuries are difficult to diagnose with accuracy, and, without the use of the X-rays, it is impossible in many cases to go further than to say that a fracture exists above the level of the surgical neck. Fracture of the anatomical neck is attended with little deformity beyond slight flattening