DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 700 downwards and inwards, through the great trochanter, or a resection of the joint, according to the special features of the case. If necessary the adductor muscles, fascia lata, and other con- tracted soft parts are divided by subcutaneous or open tenotomy. The limb is then forcibly abducted and extended, and maintained in this position by extension with the weight and pulley, and by the double long splint already described. Bilateral Hip Disease.—Both hip-joints may become affected with tuberculous disease, either simultaneously or successively, and abscesses may form on both sides. The patient is neces- sarily confined to bed, and if the disease is recovered from, his capacity for walking may be seriously impaired, especially if the joints have become fixed in an undesirable attitude. The most striking deformity occurs when both limbs are adducted so that they cross each other,—the “ scissor-leg ” or “ crossed-leg ” deformity—^^in which the patient, if able to walk at all, does so by forward movements from the knees. An attempt should be made to secure a movable joint at least on one side. Pyogenic Diseases.—This group includes a number of con- ditions resulting from infection of the joint with the common pyogenic organisms, or with the gonococcus, or the typhoid bacillus. While the organisms usually gain access to the tissues of the joint through the blood-stream, a direct infection is occasion- ally observed from suppuration in the femoral lymphatic glands or in the bursa under the ilio-psoas. The pyogenic diseases are met with chiefly in childhood and youth. The clinical features are sometimes much less striking than might be expected, and are remarkably latent when the hip affection occurs as a complication of some general illness such as scarlet fever. The affection is sometimes entirely overlooked during its active stage, and only at a later period is the head of the femur found to be dislocated, or the joint found to be ankylosed. In the acute arthritis of infants also the clinical features may be comparatively mild, but as a rule they assume a type in which the suppurative element predomin- ates. The limb usually becomes flexed and adducted, and a swelling forms in front of the joint at the upper part of Scarpa’s triangle. The head of the bone may be dislocated or the upper femoral epiphysis detached. The gonorrhoeal affections resemble those in other joints. In pyogenic affections, such as may attend tyjjhoid and other fevers, the flexion and adduction of the limb favours the occurrence of dislocation at the hip. In the case of a child who has recovered with dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, he is