DISEASES OF BONE. 602 With few exceptions, tuberculous disease in the interior of a bone does not reveal its presence until by extension it reaches one or other of the surfaces of the bone. In the shafts of long bones its eruption on the periosteal surface is usually followed by the formation of a cold abscess in the overlying soft parts. When situated in the articular ends of bones, the disease more often erupts in relation to the reflection of the synovial membrane or directly on the articular surface—in either case giving rise to disease of the joint (Fig. 245). Diffuse tuberculous osteomyelitis of the shaft of a long bone is comparatively rare, and has been observed chiefly in the tibia and in the ulna in children. There is a progressive enlargement of the bone without much pain, tenderness, or disturbance of func- tion, and examination with the X-rays shows considerable new formation by the periosteum, while the bone bounding the medullary canal has to a large extent dis- appeared. The diagnosis for pyo genic or syphilitic disease in the marrow and from new growths is usually difficult, and may not be established until an exploratory operation is performed. If the interior of the bone is occupied by tuberculous material, this is cleared out by means of the sharp spoon, or the affected portion of the shaft is resected subperiosteally. In cancellous bones, such as those of the tarsus, there is caseorrs infiltration of the marrow, and this is often attended with the formation of sequestra either in the interior of the bone or involving its outer shell as shown in Fig. 228. The situation and extent of the disease are usually to be recognised in X-ray photographs. After the tuberculous granulation tissue erupts through the cortex of the bone, it gives rise to a cold abscess or infects adjacent joints and tendon sheaths. If an exact diagnosis is made at an early stage of the disease, and this is often possible with the aid of X-rays, the affected bone is completely excised, or its interior is cleared out with the sharp spoon and gouge, the latter procedure being preferred in the case of the os colds. When several bones and joints are simultaneously affected, and there are sinuses Fig. 226.—^Tuberculous Dactylitis.