7 REPAIR IN INDIVIDUAL TISSUES. Repair of Tendons.—When a tendon is divided, the end nearer the muscle fibres is drawn away from the other, leaving a gap which is speedily filled by blood-clot. In the course of a few days this clot becomes permeated by granulation tissue, the fibroblasts of which are derived from the sheath of the tendon, the surrounding connective tissue, and probably also from the divided ends of the tendon itself. These fibroblasts ultimately develop into typical tendon cells, and the fibres which they form constitute the new tendon fibres. In the course of this reparative process it is not uncommon for the tendon and its sheath to become adherent, leading to impaired movement and stiffness. Repair of Cartilage.—Solutions in continuity of cartilage are usually repaired by ordinary cicatricial fibrous tissue. This takes place, for example, when a portion of articular cartilage is divided by incision or by a fracture implicating the articular end of a bone. In other cases, such as in fractures of costal cartilage or of the cartilages of the larynx, the cicatricial tissue is ultimately replaced by bone. It is, however, possible for a meta plastic transformation of connective-tissue cells into cartilage cells to take place, the characteristic hyaline matrix being secreted by the new cells. This is sometimes observed as an intermediary stage in the healing of fractures, especially in young bones. It may also take place in the regeneration of lost portions of cartilage, provided the new tissue is so situated as to constitute port of a joint and to be .subjected to pressure by an opposing cartilaginous surface. This is illustrated by what takes place after excision of joints where it is desired to restore the function of the articulation. By carrying out passive movements between the constituent parts, the fibrous tissue covering the ends of the bones becomes moulded into shape, its cells take on the characters of cartilage cells, and forming a matrix, so develop a new cartilage. Conversely, it is observed that wdien articular cartilage is no longer subjected to pressure by an opposing cartilage, it tends to be transformed into fibrous tissue, as may be seen in deformities attended with displacement of articular surfaces, such as hallux valgus and club-foot. Repair of Bone.—The repair of bone is most conveniently considered in relation to fractures, but the steps in the process are practically identical when the bone has been divided in the operation of osteotomy, in resection or excision.