SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. G09 and threatens to result in deformity, the affected tissues may be removed by operation. Lesions of the Bones in Inherited Syphilis.—Syphilis affects the bones more frequently in the inherited than in the acquired form of the disease. The lesions in infancy—epiphysitis, bossing of the skull, and craniotabes—have been described in the chapter on inherited syphilis (p. 180). The lesions met with later correspond to those of the tertiary period of the acquired disease. Inasmuch, howevei’, as they affect bones which are still actively growing, they may interfere with the growth of the bones in length. Gummatous disease may come and go over periods of many years, with the result that the external appearances and architectural arrangement of a long bone may be profoundly altered. In the tibia, for example, the bone may be flattened laterally so that the anterior edge is sharp and narrow; or the .shaft may be thickened and lengthened and curved forwards—an appearance known as the “ sabre-blade ” deformity. Treatment is carried out on lines similar to those recom- mended in the acquired disea.se. In view of the comparative inefticacy of iodides in inherited syphilis, most benefit results from measures directed to improving the general health. When curving of the tibia causes disability in standing and walking, the bone may be straightened by a cuneiform resection. Syphilitic dactylitis is a characteristic lesion which is met with chiefly in children. It may affect any of the fingers, toes, metacarpals, or metatarsals, but is commonest in the first phalanx of the index-finger or of the thumb. Several fingers and toes may be attacked at the same time or in succession. The lesion consists in a gummatous infiltration of the soft parts surrounding the phalanx, or may take the form of a gummatous osteo- myelitis, or these conditions may be combined. The segment of finger affected becomes the seat of a swelling which is more evident on the dorsal aspect, and according to the distribution and extent of the disease it is acorn - shaped, fusiform, or cylindrical. It is firm and elastic, and but slightly painful or tender. The movements of the finger are inqjaired, especially if the joints are involved. In its early stages the disease is amenable to anti-syphilitic treatment, and may recover completely. If untreated, the degenerated gummatous tissue approaches the surface, the skin over it becomes thin and purple and gives way, often on the lateral aspect of the finger, forming a sinus. The disintegrated bone may crumble away and the debris escape VOL. I—39