DISEASES OF MUSCLE AND TENDONS. 385 flaccid, exhibit tremors on attempted movement, and their excitability to the fai'adic current is diminished. There is also a form, described as neuropathic atrophy because of its association with lesions of the nervous system. . It is most pronounced in lesions of the motor nerve trunks, probably because vaso-motor and trophic fibres are involved as well as those which are jjurely motor in function. It is attended with definite structural alterations, the muscle elements first undergoing fatty degeneration, and then being absorbed, and replaced to a large extent by ordinary connective tissue and fat. At a certain stage the muscles exhibit the reaction of degeneration (p. 331). In the common form of infantile paralysis from disease in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, many fibres undergo fatty degeneration and are replaced by fat, while at the same time there is a regeneration of muscle fibres. “ Muscular Eheumatism.”—This clinical term is applied to a group of affections of which lumbago is the best-known example. The group includes lumbago, stiff-neck, and pleuro- dynia—conditions which have this in common, that sudden and severe pain is excited by movement of the affected part. In lumbago the pain is usually located over the sacrum, the sacro-iliac joint, or the aponeuroses of the lumbar muscles on one or both sides. The amount of tenderness varie's, and so long as the patient is quiet he is free from pain. The slightest attempt to alter the position of the back, however, is attended by pain, which may be so severe as to render him helpless for the moment. The pain is most marked on rising from the stoojaing or sitting posture and may shoot down the back of the hip, simulating sciatica. It is not uncommon for the patient to suffer from lumbago and sciatica at the same time. Once a patient has suffered from lumbago, it is very liable to recur, and an attack may be determined by errors of diet, changes of weather, or exposure to cold. It is met with chiefly in male adults, and is most apt to occur in those who are gouty or rheumatic, or the sirbjects of oxaluric dyspepsia. In ^‘•painful stiff-neck'’ or rheumatic torticollis, the pain is located in one side of the neck, and is excited by some inadvertent movement. The head is held stiffly on one side as in wry-neck, the patient voluntarily contracting the sterno- mastoid. There may be tenderness over the vertebral spines or in the lines of the cervical nerves, and the sterno-mastoid may undergo atrophy. This affection is not uncommon in children. In pleurodynia the pain is located to the side of the chest in VOL. I—25