FRACTURES OF UPPER END OF HUMERUS. 465 and inwards towards the coracoid process by the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove and the longitudinal muscles of the upper arm, and may be felt in the axilla. The elbow points outwards and backwards, and the upper arm is shortened. The shoulder retains its rotundity, but there is a slight hollow some distance below the acromion. On moving the shaft it is found that the head and tuberosities do not move with it, and unnatural mobility and crepitus at the seat of fracture may be detected. When the upper arm is abducted at the moment of fracture, the upper fragment is retained in that position by the external rotator and abductor muscles in- serted into it, while the lower frag- ment passes upwards and inwards as before. Although there is sometimes overlapping and broadening after union, the usefulness of the limb is seldom impaired. T^'eatnient.—To ensure accurate reduction a general anaesthetic is usually necessary. If the fracture is transverse there is little or no displacement, and as the line of fracture is high up in the axilla and deeply placed among muscles, it is not possible to control the fragments by local splints ajeplied so as to surround the fracture. A soft, elastic pad of cotton wool is placed in the hollow of the axilla, and fixed in position by a tri- angular handkerchief or figure-of- eight bandage. The shoulder-joint is controlled by a poroplastic shoulder-cap (Fig. 120), the elbow by a rectangular splint, and the forearm is supported by a sling. Another method, described by Professor Chiene, is as follows : “ Lay the arm across the chest, and the hand over the opposite shoulder. The tail of a bandage is then placed on the shoulder of the injured arm and carried down the upper arm, round beneath the elbow and up along the back of the forearm to the opposite shoulder, then across the back to below the deltoid of the injured arm, round the upper arm to the elbow, repeating as often as necessary. Last of all, fix the arm to the chest by circular turns” (Fig. 121). VOL. I—30 Fig. 120.—Sliug and Poroplastic Shoulder-Cap applied for Frac- ture of Surgical Neck of Hu- merus. The rectangular sjilint is not figured.