TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 297 He id’s Method hy Elastic Bandage.—In aneurysms of the limbs the principle of compression may be applied after the method of Reid. An elastic bandage is firmly applied from the fingers or toes to just below the aneurysm. It is lightly applied as it passes over the swelling, and again tightened above. As the circulation through the limb is thus completely arrested, the bandage must not be left on for more than an hour, for fear of inducing gangrene. As the bandage is being removed the artery should be controlled by digital pressure to prevent a sudden inflow of blood disturbing the clot which may have formed. This pressure should be maintained for some hours. In view of the uncertainty of the results, the discomfort to the patient, and the trouble involved in carrying out these various methods of compression, the application of a ligature— which is merely another way of carrying out the same principle —is usually preferable. Other Methods of Treatment.—In internal aneurysms — for example, innominate and aortic—and in such external aneurysms as gluteal, sciatic, or vertebral, which are so situated that the methods already described are impracticable, one or other of the following measures may be employed. Macewen’s acupuncture or “ needling ” method consists in passing one or more fine, highly tempered steel needles through the tissues overlying the aneurysm, and through its outer wall. The needles are made to touch the opjjosite wall of the sac, and the pulsation of the aneurysm imparts a movement to them which causes them to scarify the inner surface of the sac. The blood coagulates on the rough surface produced, and the clot thus formed increases in size till it may fill the sac. As much of the inner aspect of the sac as can be reached should be scarified in this way, to increase the area of clot formation and to render the clot uniformly thick. The needles may be left in position for some hours, the projecting ends being surrounded with sterile gauze. Electrolysis is applied to an aneurysm in the same way as to a nsevus. The insulated needles are passed in the same way as Macewen’s needles, and the results seem to be best when the needle is made to scratch the wall of the sac—a combination of “needling” and galvano-puncture. The Moore-Gorradi method consists in introducing through the wall of the aneurysm a hollow insulated needle, through the lumen of which from ten to twenty feet of highly drawn silver or other wire is passed into the sac, where it coils up into an open meshwork. The positive pole of a galvanic battery is