38 METHODS OF WOUND TREATMENT. ■with corrosive sublimate, double cyanide of mercury and zinc, iodoform, or other antiseptic agent, is now widely used in the treatment of wounds. Pads of sterilised gauze are extensively used as a dressing for operation wounds. Double cyanide gauze is to be preferred in such regions as the neck, axilla, or groin, where complete sterilisation of the skin is difficult to attain, and where it is desirable to leave the dressing undisturbed for ten days or more. Iodoform gauze is of special value for the packing of wounds treated by the open method. One variety or another of wool, rendered absorbent by the extraction of its fat, and sterilised by heat, forms a part of almost every surgical dressing, and various antiseptic agents may be added to it. Of these corrosive sublimate is the most generally used. Wood-wool dressings are more highly and more uniformly absorbent than cotton wools. As evaporation takes place through wool dressings, the discharge becomes dried, and so forms an unfavourable medium for bacterial growth. Boracic Lint is prepared by soaking ordinary lint in a hot concentrated solution of boracic acid and then drying it. It is usually employed as a wet dressing or poultice, being wrung out of boracic lotion, applied to the part, and covered with gutta- percha tissue. Means adopted to combat Septic Infection. — As has already been indicated, the same antiseptic precautions are to be taken in dealing with infected as with aseptic wounds. In the case of recent injuries such as result from railway or machinery accidents, with bruising and crushing of the tissues, and grinding of gross dirt into the wounds, the scissors must be freely used to remove the tissues which have been devitalised, or impregnated with foreign material. Hair - covered parts should be shaved. Crushed and contaminated portions of bone should be chiselled away. Opinions differ as to the benefit derived from washing such wounds with strong lotions, which are liable to devitalise the tissues with which they come in contact, and so render them less able to resist the action of any organisms which may remain in them. All are agreed, however, that free washing Avith normal salt solution is useful in mechanically cleansing the injured parts. Peroxide of hydrogen sprayed over such wounds is also beneficial in virtue of its oxidising properties. Efficient drainage must be provided, and stitches should be. used sparingly, if at all. The best Avay in which to treat such wounds is by the