46 INFLAMMATION. On open surfaces, and in acne spots, boils, or similar conditions, the undiluted acid may be locally applied with the same object. By establishing free drainage, so that no fluid discharges are allowed to remain in the tissues, and by keeping the surface dry, the organisms may be starved out. Various drugs administered internally, such as quinine, salol, salicylate of iron, and others, have a reputation, more or less deserved, as internal antisejhics. The toxins may be neutralised locally by such applications as iodoform or its substitutes; or their elimination may be hastened by stimulating the emunctories. A saline purge, such as half an ounce of sulphate of magnesium in a small quantity of water, ensures a free evacuation of the bowels. The kidneys are flushed by such diluent drinks as equal parts of milk and lime-water, or milk with a dram of liquor calcis saccharatus added to each tumblerful. Barley-water, and “ Imperial drink,” which consists of a dram and a half of cream of tartar added to a pint of boiling water and sweetened with sugar after cooling, are also useful and non-irritating diuretics. The skin may be stimulated by Dover’s powder (10 grains), or liquor ammonise acetatis in three - dram doses every four hours. The general health of the patient must be kept- up by regularly administered diets of fluid food, such as milk, beef- tea, meat juices or gruel, rendered more easily assimilable by artificial digestion if necessary. Stimulants and tonics will be given if indicated. The tissues of the inflamed part are aided in their struggle with the bacteria by receiving a plentiful supply of healthy blood, and it has hitherto been the practice deliberately to facilitate the venous return from an inflamed area in order that fresh arterial blood might reach it. Recent observations by Bier of Bonn, how- ever, seem to indicate that a certain degree of venous congestion artificially induced in the inflamed area is beneficial (p. 62). Blood-letting.—In some cases more active aid must be given to the circulation by the relief of congestion by blood-letting, which may be general or local. General blood-letting consists in opening a sujjerficial vein (venesection) and allowing from eight to ten ounces of blood to flow from it. Local blood-letting is a commoner surgical practice than venesection, and may be effected by leeches, cupping, or incision.