DISEASES OF BONE. 592 for example, in the centre of the popliteal space in necrosis of the femoral trigone—it is better to make a fresh wound down to the bone on that aspect of'the limb which affords the best access, and which entails the least injury of the overlying soft parts. The periosteum, which is thick and easily separable, is raised from the new case with an elevator, and by means of the chisel or gouge enough of the newly formed bone is taken away to allow of the removal of the sequestrum. Care must be taken not to leave behind any fragment of dead bone, as this will interfere with healing, or may determine a relapse of suppuration at a later period. The dead bone having been removed, the lining granulations are scraped away with a sharp spoon, and the cavity is disinfected. There are different ways of dealing with a bone cavity. It may be packed with iodoform gauze, which is changed at intervals until healing takes place from the bottom; it may be filled with a flap of bone and periosteum raised from the vicinity, or with bone grafts; or the wall of bone on one side of the cavity may be chiselled through at its base, so that it can be brought into contact with the opposite wall. Mention may also be made of the method of filling bone cavities devised by Mosetig-Moorhof. After the cavity has been disinfected and dried by a current of hot air, a mixture of powdered iodoform (60 parts), and oil of sesame and spermaceti (each 40 parts), which is fluid at a temperature of 112° F., is poured into the cavity and allowed to' solidify; the soft parts are then brought together without drainage. As the cavity fills up with new bone, the iodoform is gradually absorbed. Such procedures may be carried out at the same time as the sequestrum is removed, or after an interval. Serous or Albuminous Osteomyelitis and Periostitis.— This is a mild and localised form of the disease due to an attenu- ated virus, and accompanied by an effusion of serous fluid under the periosteum, but with no tendency to pass on to suppuration or to produce necrosis. Growth fever is to be regarded as another attenuated form of osteomyelitis which results in an exaggerated growth in length of the bones affected. It is probably the explanation of the con- dition popularly known as “growing pains,” and in the lower limbs of children and adolescents is often mistaken for rheumatism. The milder cases are not attended with fever, the child complains of vague evanescent pains and of feeling tired, and is disinclined to go about. In the more severe forms the child is evidently ill, is weary