424 INJURIES OF BONES. of fractures apply equally to epiphysial separations, and the special points will be described with the individual lesions. Repair op Injuries of Bone. In a simple fracture, the vessels of the periosteum and the marrow being torn at the same time as the bone is broken, a blood-clot forms around and between the fragments. This clot is soon permeated by newly formed blood-vessels, and by leucocytes and fibroblasts, the latter being derived from pro- liferation of the cells of the marrow and periosteum. The granulation tissue thus formed resembles in every particular that described in the repair of other tissues, except that the fibroblasts, being the offspring of cells which normally form bone, assume the functions of osteoblasts, and proceed to the formation of new bone. The bone may be formed either by a direct conversion of the fibrous tissue into osseous tissue, the osteoblasts arranging themselves concentrically in the recesses of the capillary loops, and secreting a homogeneous matrix in which lime-salts are speedily deposited; or there may be an intermediate stage of cartilage formation, especially in young subjects, and in cases where the fragments are not completely immobilised. The newly formed bone is at first arranged in little masses or in the form of rods which unite with each other to form a network of spongy bone, the meshes of which contain marrow. The reparative material, consisting of granulation tissue in the process of conversion into bone, is called callus, on account of its hard and unyielding character. In a fracture of a long bone, that which surrounds the fragments is called the external or ensheathing callus, and may be likened to the mass of solder which surrounds the junction of pipes, in plumber-work (Fig. 103); that which occupies the position of the medullary canal is called the internal or medullary callus', and that which intervenes between the fragments and maintains the continuity of the cortical compact tissue of the shaft is called the intermediate callus. This intermediate callus is the only permanent portion of the reparative material, the external and internal callus being only temiiorary, and being largely reabsorbed through the agency of giant cells. Detached fragments or splinters of bone may be absorbed, or they may be included in the callus and ultimately become incor- porated in the new bone which bridges the gaji. All surplus bone is removed, the medullary canal is re-formed.