763 WINGED SCAPULA. DEFORMITIES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. Congenital Absence of the Clavicle.—Both clavicles may be absent, and although there i.s no impairment of function, it is possible for the patient voluntarily to l)ring his shoulders into contact with one another in front of the chest. Displacements of the Scapula.—In the congenital uinvard displacement (Sprengel’s shoulder), the one shoulder appears higher than the other, the trapezius is prominent, and the dorsal spine is convex to the affected side. In addition to the u})ward displacement the scapula may also be tilted so that its inferior angle approaches the spine and its axillary border is nearly horizontal. It is sometimes associated with imperfect develop- ment of the lower part of the trapezius, and with a partial arrest of growth of the scapula and clavicle. When abduction is seriously restricted as a result of the posterior superior angle of the bone coming into contact with the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, this angle of the bone may be removed. Winged Scapula.—This condition consists in a marked dis- placement backwards of the lower angle and vertebral border of the scapula, when the patient attempts to raise the arm from the side (Fig. 307). Under normal conditions, in making this movement the serratus magnus and rhomboid muscles pull forward the vertebral border and inferior angle of the scapula, and so fix the bone firmly against the chest wall. When these muscles are paralysed, as a result of infantile para- lysis, neuritis, or injury of the nerve of Bell, or of the fifth and sixth cervical nerve roots, through which they receive their supply, the patient is unable to abduct the arm, the deltoid having lost appoint d'appui, and its contraction merely results in tilting the angle of the scapula backward. Treatment.—In the majority of recent cases the condition yields to the administration of strychnine and other muscle and nerve tonics, and the use of massage and the faradic current. The application of a carefully adjusted padded belt is sometimes useful. The method of treatment by stitching the latissimus dorsi over the lower angle of the scapula is based on the erroneous assumption that the dis23lacenient is due to the slijjijing of that muscle from off the bone although it must be admitted that the operation sometimes diminishes the deformity and adds to the patient’s comfort. A more efficient method has been proposed and j^ractised by Tubby j it consists in detaching the sternal 2>ortion of the