279 VARIX—VARICOSE VEINS. Complications.—Chronic eczema and «Ae?’s are often met with ill the lower i>art of the leg in awsociation with varix, and are due to interference with the nutrition of the skin. The iiicohi- petence of the valves allows the pressure in the varicose veins to equal that in the arterioles, so that the cajiillary circulation is impeded. From the same cause the blood in the deep veins is enabled to enter the superficial veins, where the backward pressure is so great that the blood Hows down again, and so a vicious circle is established. The blood there- fore loses more and more of its oxygen, and so fails to nourish the tissues. When the varicosity is of long standing, the skin may become pigmented, assuming a mahogany-brown or bluish hue. Profuse haemorrhage may take place from a varicose vein as a result of a wound or of ulceration of its wall. Increased intravenous pressure produced by severe muscular strain may determine rupture of a vein exposed in an ulcer. If the limb is dependent, the incom- petency of the valves permits of vei’y rapid and copious bleeding, which may prove fatal, j)ar- ticularly if the patient is intoxicated when the rupture takes place. The bleeding, however, may at once be arrested by elevating the limb, or by applying pressure directly over the bleeding point. Phlebitis and thrornbosis are common sequelae of varix, and may prove dangerous, either by spreading into the large venous trunks or by giving rise to emboli. The larger the varix the greater is the tendency for a thrombus to spread upwards and to involve the deeper veins. Thrombi usually originate in venous cysts or pouches, and at acute bends on the vessel, especially when these are situated in the vicinity of the knee, and are subjected to repeated injuries—for example, in riding. In a certain proportion of cases, especially in elderly people, the occur- rence of thrombosis leads to cure of the condition by the thrombus becoming organised and obliterating a segment of the vein. Treatment.—At best the treatment of varicose veins is only palliative, as it is obviously inqmssible to restore to the vessels their normal structure. The patient must avoid wearing anything, such as garters, which constricts the limb, and any obvious cause Fig. 61.—Varix t f Internal Saphena Vein, with Sac- cular Dilatation over Saphenous Opening.