CONriENITAL DT8LOOATTON OF THE HIP. 723 extension is applied to the leg throngli the medinm of a hank of worsted fixed above the malleoli, and counter-extension to the trunk by means of a perineal band; the traction is gradually increased until the trochanter is brought down to the level of Nelaton’s line. When this is accomplished the limb spontaneously assumes the abducted position and the prominence of the tro- chanter disappears, and in its place there is a marked depression. During this procedure the adductor tendons stand out like cords. and should be divided subcutane- ously or stretched by firmly pres- sing on them with the thumbs. The head of the femur having been brought down to the level of the acetabulum, is made to turn towards the socket by flexing the thigh and rotating it slightly inwards, and if while the limb is still in this position the thigh is abducted to the maximum degree —about 90°—the head of the femur glides over the posterior border of the acetabulum and enters the socket, often \vith an audible click and an appreci- able vibration of the limb. After reduction, the abducted limb should be rotated outwards until the head of the femur bulges the soft parts in the fold of the groin. The lindj must be maintained in the abducted position, by a Fig. 277.—Limb fixed in Plaster of Paris, after re<Uictioii of congenital dislocation by inanipnlation. plaster case, which includes the lower part of the trunk and the affected limb down to the knee (Fig. 277). The first bandage is changed after ten or twelve weeks, and is then renewed at shorter intervals, the angle of abduction being diminished at each renewal until the limbs are nearly parallel. At the end of six months the bandage is given up, and massage and exercises are employed. In bilateral cases, both dislocations should be reduced at one sitting if possible, and a plaster case applied with both thighs abducted and flexed to a right angle. In the event of failure to reduce the dislocation on the first attempt, the limb should be