356 CHAPTER XVII. THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. Structure of skin — Blisters—■ Callosities—Corns—Chilblains—Boils— Carbuncle—Abscess—Veldt sores—Tuberculosis of skin: Inoculation tubercle—Lupus : Varieties—Elephantiasis : Varieties—Sebaceous cysts or wens—Moles—Horns—New growths : Fibroma; Papilloma ; Adenoma; Epithelioma; Rodent cancer ; Melanotic cancer ; Sarcoma — Affections of Cicatrices — Varieties of scars — Keloid — Tumours—Affections of Nails. Structure of Skin.—The skin is composed of two layers, a superficial cellular layer—the epidermis, and the corium or true skin. The epidermis is differentiated from without inwards into the stratum corneum or horny layer, the stratum lucidum or clear layer, the stratum granulosum, and the rete Malpighii or germinal layer, from which all the others are de- veloped. The deeper layer, known as the coritim or true shin, consists of connective tissue, in which ramify the hlood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves. That part of the corium immediately adjoining the epidermis is known as the papillary portion, and contains the terminal loops of the cutaneous blood-vessels and the terminations of the cutaneous nerves. The deeper layer of the true skin is known as the reticular portion, and is largely composed of adipose tissue. Blisters result from the exudation and accumulation of serous fluid beneath the horny layer of the epidermis. The fluid may be clear, as in the blister of a recent burn, or blood- stained, as in the blisters so commonly seen in severe fractures of the leg. It may become purulent as a result of the entrance of pyogenic organisms, and this may be the starting-point of septic lymphangitis, cellulitis, or lymphadenitis. The treatment consists in disinfecting the skin and puncturing the blister to let out the fluid. When septic, the separated horny layer must be cut away with scissors in order to allow of the necessary, disinfection. Callosities are prominent, indurated masses of the overgrown horny layer of the epidermis where it has been exposed to