FUACTURES OF LOWER END OF HUMERUS. 477 to treat these fractures, and the consensus of opinion seems now to be in favour of full flexion at the elbow. In this view clinical experience is supported by the evidence afforded by the Rbntgen rays. In no other position can the fragments be brought into such accurate apposition. The supra-condylar fracture is reduced by first extending the elbow to free the lower fragment from the triceps, and then, while making traction through the forearm, mani})ulating the fragments into position, and Anally flexing the elbow to an acute angle. In this way the triceps is put upon the stretch and forms a natural posterior splint. A pad is placed in the bend of the ell)ow to separate the opposed skin surfaces, and the. elbow fixed in this position by means of a figure-of-eight bandage. If necessary this may be supplemented by a posterior, gutter-shaped splint of poroi>lastic, or by a modification of Croft’s splint placed along each side of the limb. The arm is jflaced in a sling so arranged as to support the elbow. Movement and massage should be begun in two or three days, care being taken that the fragments are not redisplaced. By the end of a week the angle at which the elbow is fixed may be gradually increased. The splint should be worn for about three weeks, and the sling for a week or two longer. Separation of the epiphysis and fracture of the internal epi- condyle are treated on the same lines as supra-condylar fracture. It is, however, sometimes advantageous in the epicondylar fracture to fix the small fragment in position by a nail inserted through the skin. T- or ^-shaped fractures and fractures of the condyles, inasmuch as they implicate the articular surfaces, present greater difficulties in treatment. In young subjects whose occupation entails free movement of the elbow-joint, it is generally advisable to expose the fracture by operation and secure the fragments in position by nails or -wires. The details of the operation vary in different cases, and depend upon the line of obliquity of the fracture, and the disposition of the individual fragments, points which may usually be determined by the use of the X- rays. In performing the operation care must be taken to dis- turb the periosteum as little as possible, lest the nutrition of the fragments be interfered with. In the less complicated cases it is sometimes possible to fix the fragments in apposition by nails inserted through the skin. After operation a retentive apparatus similar to that employed for the supra-condylar fracture is applied, and the treatment is conducted on similar lines, modified only by the presence of a wound.