TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 295 Ligation of the Artery.—The principle of this operation is to arrest, or so far to diminish, the flow of blood through the aneurysmal part of the artery that coagulation takes place in the sac and the clot spreads to the artery and occludes it. The ligature may be applied on the cardiac side of the aneurysm, either immediately above the sac (Anel’s operation, 1710) or at some distance above (John Hunter, 1785). On the other hand, one or more branches may be ligatured on the distal side of the aneurysm, so as totally to arrest the flow through the sac (Brasdor’s operation, 1760)—for example, in aneurysm of the proximal end of the common carotid the vessel may be ligatured near its bifurcation. The distal operation may also be performed, merely to diminish the quantity of blood passing through the affected artery without completely stopping the stream (Wardrop’s operation, 1825) — for example, in innominate aneurysm the common carotid and third part of the subclavian may be ligatured, the branches of the first part of the subclavian not being interfered with. Anel’s operation — proximal ligature close to the sac—has been practically abandoned, as the cases to which it is suitable can be treated with greater safety and certainty by the old operation. The advantages of Hunter’s operation have been largely dis- counted by the employment of antiseptic methods of operating. Its chief claim is its simi)licity, the ligature being applied to a healthy part of the artery whose relations are undisturbed by the proximity of the aneurysm—for example, ligature of the femoral in Scarpa’s triangle or in Hunter’s canal, for popliteal aneurysm. By this method the cure is not certain as the distance between the seat of ligature and the sac favours the establish- ment of a collateral circulation through intervening branches, and this, while it diminishes the risk of gangrene, permits the access of fresh blood to the aneurysm before there is time for an occluding clot to be formed. Even when a clot forms it may be only temporary, and may disappear, so that pulsation in the sac returns. This “ recurrent pulsation ” after ligatm-e of an artery may be due to imperfect occlusion of the vessel at the seat of ligature, to the rapid establishment of a free collateral circula- tion, or to the reabsorption of the clot which temporarily occluded the artery. Ligation of an artery in its continuity is performed through an incision which usually runs in the long axis of the vessel. The part of the artery to which the ligature is to be applied