330 THE NERVES. central end, but that it goes on also in the peripheral segment, in which, however, the new axis cylinders do not attain maturity until continuity with the central end has been re-established. Whether it is entirely from the central end or by partici- pation of both segments, proximal and distal, the young axis cylinders, which are the essential element in the repair of nerves, are derived from the nuclei which lie beneath the neurilemma. If the wound becomes infected and suppuration occurs, scar tissue is formed in considerable amount, and this exercises injurious pressure upon the young nerve fibres, with the result that the conducting paths are not reproduced. When the ends of the divided nerve are not in contact, reunion of the divided nerve fibres does not take place whether the wound is septic or aseptic. Between the ends there is a mass of newly formed con- nective tissue, which varies in amount ac- cording to the duration of the re- parative process and the length of time the ends remain apart. The proximal end of the nerve forms a bulbous swelling, which becomes adherent to the general scar tissue, and consists of branching axis cylinders running in all directions. These have failed to reach the distal end because of the distance 71.—Stamp Neuromata of between them. The peripheral end is completely degenerated, and is represented by a fibrous cord, the cut end of which is often slightly swollen or bulbous, and is also incorporated with the general scar tissue of the wound. In the case of nerves divided in an amputation there is an active, although necessarily abortive, attempt at regeneration, which results in the formation of bulbous swellings at the cut ends of the nerves. When there has been suppuration, and especially if the nerves have been cut low down so as to be exposed in the wound, these bulbous swellings may attain an abnormal size, and are then known as “amputation” or “stump neuromata” (Fig. 71). When a nerve is only partially divided, those fibres which Fig. Sciatic Nerve, excised forty years after the original amputa- tion by Mr. A. G. Miller.