384 MUSCLES, TENDON'S, & TENDON SHEATHS. wounds so commonly met with above the wrist as a result of the hand being thrust through a pane of glass. It is essential that the ends should be carefully sutured to each other-, and as the upper end is retracted the original wound may require to be enlarged in an upward direction. When primary suture has been omitted, or has failed in consequence of suppuration, the separated ends of the tendon become adherent to adjacent structures, and the function of the associated muscle is impaired or lost. Under these conditions the operation of secondary suture is indicated. A free incision is necessary in order to discover and isolate the ends of the tendon; if the interval is too wide to admit of their being approximated by sutures, means must be taken to lengthen the tendon by suitably placed incisions. Avulsion of Tendons.—This is a rare injury in which the tendons of a finger or toe are torn from their attachments along with the digit concerned. In the hand, it is nsually brought about by the fingers being caught in the reins of a runaway horse, or being seized in a horse’s teeth. It is usually the terminal phalanx that is separated, and with it the tendon of the deep flexor, which ruptures most frequently at its junction with the belly of the muscle in the forearm. The treatment consists in disinfecting the wound, closing the tendon sheath, and trimming the mutilated finger so as to provide a useful stump. Diseases of Muscle and Tendons. Congenital absence of one or more muscles may be met with, usually in association with other congenital deformities. The pectoralis major, for example, may be absent on one or on both sides, without, however, causing any disability, as other muscles enlarge and take on its functions. Atrophy of Aluscle.—There is a form of atrophy or wasting of muscles described as simple because the muscle elements are merely diminished in size without undergoing any structural alteration. It is commonly met with as a result of disuse, as when a patient is confined to bed. In cases of joint disease, the muscles of the affected region become atrophied more rapidly than is accounted for by disuse alone, and this is attributed to an interference with the trophic innervation of the muscles reflected from centres in the spinal cord. It is usually more marked in the extensor than in the flexor groups of muscles. Those affected become soft and