INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 193 bone may resemble a tuberculous or syphilitic inflammation of the bone (dactylitis). Treatment.—In those projecting from the surface of a bone, both the tumour and its capsule should be removed. If in the interior, a sufficient amount of the cortex should be removed to allow of the tumour being scraped out, and care must be taken that no nodules of cartilage are left behind. In multiple chondromata of the hand, when the fingers are crippled and useless, the question of amputation may have to be considered. When a cartilaginous tumour takes on active growth, it must be treated as malignant. The chondromata that are met with at the ends of the long bones in children and young adults, form a group by themselves. They are usually related to the epiphysial cartilage, and it was suggested by Virchow that they take origin from unaltered islands of cartilage in the interior of the bone which have not been used up in the process of ossification. They are believed to occur most frequently in those who have suffered from rickets in early life. They tend to undergo ossification concurrently with the epiphysial cartilage from which they take origin, and constitute what are known as cartilaginous exostoses. These are sometimes met with in a multiple form, and may occur in several generations of the same family. Cartilaginous tumours in the parotid, submaxillary gland, or testicle are usually chondro-sarcomata. Osteoina.—An osteoma is a tumour composed of bony tissue and originating from the skeleton. Two varieties are recognised —the spongy or cancellous, and the ivory or compact. The common spongy or cancellous osteoma is really an ossified chondroma, and is met with chiefly at the ends of the long bones of the'limbs (Fig. 45). From the fact that it projects from the surface of the bone it is often spoken of as an exostosis. It grows very slowly, and rarely causes any discomfort unless it VOL. I—13 Fig. 45.—Cancellous Osteoma of lower end of Femur, from .1, patient aged 17.