THE ANKLE-JOINT. 715 or otlier malleolus, localised paiu and tenderness, and a limp in walking, the first sign may be the formation of abscess or the rapid development of articular symptoms. In such cases skiagrams may afford valuable information. A combination of synovial and osseous disease is usually met with in advanced cases, the infection tending to spread diffusely throughout the whole region. Abscess formation is an early and prominent feature of disease of the ankle, whether of osseous or synovial origin, and sinuses are liable to form around the joint. Outlying abscesses and sinuses are usually the result of infection of the tendon sheaths in the neighbourhood. When tuberculous teno-synovitis occurs independently of tlisease of the ankle, the swelling is conffned to one aspect of the joint. In sarcoma of the lower end of the tibia, the swelling lacks the uniform distribution of that met with in joint disease. In Brodie’s abscess of the lower end of the tibia, the ankle joint may be swollen, but tenderness is elicited on percussing over the bone. The treatmetd is conducted on the same lines as in other joints of the lower extremity. The foot is immobilised at a right angle to the leg by splints or plaster of Paris. If it is proposed to inject iodoform, the point of the needle is inserted below either malleolus, and is then pushed upwards alongside of the astragalus. Abscess is treated on the usual lines (p. 150). If localised disease in one of the bones is recognised before the joint is infected, it should be eradicated by operation. If articular symptoms are absent or have subsided, the [)atient is encouraged to go about; a Thomas’ knee-splint is the best apparatus, as it takes all the weight off the limb, but, failing this, crutches should be worn and a patten fixed to the boot of the sound limb. When the disease is diffuse and resists conservative treatment, operation must not be delayed. The choice lies between arthrectomy and excision. In excising the joint, the articular surfaces of the constituent bones are removed, and it may be necessary to take away the whole of the astragalus. Amputation should be restricted to adults with rapidly progressing disease and diffuse suppuration, and to cases which have relapsed after excision. Whatever method of ami>utation is employed, it is essential that the infected tissues should be completely removed to avoid recrudescence in the stump. The other diseases of the ankle include •pifoyenir, gonorrhoeal, rhennmtic, gouty, and hysterical affections, arthritis deformans, and Charcot’s disease. The last-named is generally associated