734 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. gracilis are displaced backwai’ds, so that they descend behind instead of on the inner side of the knee. The popliteal artery lies on the back of the external condyle instead of in the hollow between the condyles, and the internal popliteal nerve is displaced even further outwards. The capsular and other ligaments are usually slack, so that the joint is wobbly and easily hyper- extended. There is often a little effusion into the joint. Clinical Features.—In the infantile form (Fig. 287) the knock-knee is very commonly associated with signs of rickets in other parts of the skeleton, and especially with bending of the tibia and femur, and in extreme cases the child may be unable to walk. The deformity is about as frequently bilateral as unilateral. There may be knock-knee on the one side and bow-knee on the other. The apparent disa})pearance of the valgus attitude on flexion of the knee has been the subject of much dis- cussion ; it has been attributed to sim- ultaneous outward rotation of the limb at the hip and to the immunity of the posterior portions of the condyles from the obliquity of the articular surface of the femur. It was originally pointed out by Albert that if a strip of paper be cut at an angle so as to represent a genu val- gum, the mere folding of the paper causes the angle to disappear. It is usually possible to hyper-extend the knee, and, in the extended position to rotate the leg out to a greater extent than is normal. In unilateral knock-knee, the affected limb is a little shorter than its fellow, but the patient comjDensates for this by depressing the pelvis on the affected side. Prognosis.—While there is some prospect of spontaneous recovery in children under si.x years, the usual tendency is for the deformity to increase until the skeleton reaches maturity at the age of eighteen or twenty. Treatment of Infantile Knock-knee.—The general treatment is directed towards curing the rickets. So long as this disease is active the child should not be allowed to stand or walk. The limbs should be strengthened by douching and massage twice daily, finishing on each occasion with manipulations which Fig. 287.—Knock - knee in Child let. 5, the sub- ject of Rickets.