566 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. The astragalo-scajjhoid joint lies immediately behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and a line drawn straight across the foot at this level jjasses over the calcaneo-cuboid joint. The ankle-joint, formed by the articula- tion of the tibia and fibula with the astragalus, lies about half an inch above the tip of the internal malleolus, and is so constructed that when the foot is at a right angle with the leg, it is only possible to flex and extend the joint. When the toes are pointed, however, slight lateral and rotatory movements are possible. The chief seat of lateral movement of the foot is at the astragalo- scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articula- tions — ‘ ‘ the mid - tarsal or Chopart's joint.” The ankle-joint owes its strength chiefly to the malleoli and the externa] and internal lateral ligaments, and to the inferior tibio-libular ligaments which bind together the lower ends of the bones of the leg. The numerous tendons pass- ing over the joint on every side also add to its stability. The synovial membrane of the ankle- joint passes up between the bones of the leg to line the inferior tibio-fibular joint; but it is distinct from that of the inter- tarsal joints, which communicate with one another in a complicated manner. Tlie ejnphysial line at the lower end of the fibula lies on the level of the astragalo- tibial articulation, while that of the tibia is about half an inch higher (Fig. 207). Fl(i. 207.—Section througli Ankle-Joint, showing rela- tion of epiphyses to synovial cavity. a, Lower epipliysis of tibia. h, Lower epiphysis of tibula. c, Astragalus. d, Os calcis. (After Poland.) Fractures in the Region op the Ankle. Pott’s Fracture.—It must clearly be understood that various lesions occurring in the region of the ankle-joint are included under the clinical term “ Pott’s fracture.” Although of a similar nature, and produced by similar forms of violence, these vary considerably in their anatomy and clinical features. They are all the result of combined eversion and abduction of the foot—2'roduced, for example, by the foot slipping off the kerbstone, or by the patient jumping from a height and landing on the inner side of the foot. When forcible eversion is the chief movement, the tightening of the internal lateral ligament usuaLy tears off the internal malleolus across its base. The astragalus is then brought to