INJURIES. 383 This injury is met with chiefly in relation to the tendons at the ankle and in the long tendon of the biceps. Dislocation of the peronei tendons may be met with—for example, in a i)atient who has recently sustained a violent twist of the foot. There is severe pain and considerable swelling in the region of the outer ankle ; the peroneus longus by itself, or together with the brevis, is found lying on the outer aspect or in front of the external malleolus; the patient is unable to move the foot. By a little manipulation the tendons are replaced in their grooves, and are retained there by a series of strips of plaster. At the end of three weeks massage and exercises are employed. Sometimes the displacement occurs apart from any known injury. Whenever the foot is everted the tendon of the peroneus longus is liable to be jerked forwards out of its groove, some- times with an audible snap. The jiatient suffers pain and is disabled until the tendon is replaced. Reduction is easy, but the displacement tends to recur at intervals. Under these conditions an incision should be made over the tendon ; if the sheath is slack or torn, it is tightened up or closed with catgut sutures ] or an artificial sheath is niade by raising uj) a quadri- lateral flap of periosteum from the outer aspect of the fibula, and stitching it over the tendon. Similarly the tibialis posticus may be dis^daced over the internal malleolus as a result of inversion of the foot. The long tendon of the biceps may be dislocated outwards or inwards—usually inwards—as a result of violent or of repeated rotation movements of the upper arm, such as are performed in wringing clothes. The patient is aware of the displacement taking jfiace, and is unable to extend the forearm until the displaced tendon has been reduced by abducting the arm. In recurrent cases, the patient may be able to dislocate the tendon at will, and in such cases the disability is .so inconsiderable that there is rarely any occasion for interference. Wounds of Muscles and Tendons.—Accidentally inflicted wounds of muscles are to be treated on the same lines as wounds of other soft structures, the muscle fibres being brought together with chromic gut sutures. If the ends are allowed to retract and if the wound suppurates, they are united by scar tissue and may become fixed to bone or other adjacent structures. In a limb this may interfere with the functions of the muscle ; in the abdominal wall the scar tissue may stretch and yield, and so favour the development of a ventral hernia. Tendons may be cut across accidentally, especially in those