INHERITED SYPHILIS. 181 tahes is api)lied when the bone becomes thin and soft, reverting to its original membranous condition, so that the areas affected dimple under the finger like parchment or thin cardboard; its localisation in the posterior parts of the skull indicates that the disappearance of the osseous tissue is influenced by the pressure of the head on the pillow. Craniotabes is entirely recovered from as the child improves in health. Between the ages of three and six months, certain other phenomena may be observed, such as effusion into the joints, especially the knees ; iritis, in one or in both eyes—a condition which, however, is liable to be overlooked; and enlargement of the spleen and of the liver. In the majority of cases the child recovers from these early manifestations, especially when treated with mercury, and may enjoy an indefinite period of good health. On the other hand, when it attains the age of two to four years it may begin to manifest lesions which correspond to those of the tertiary period of acquired syphilis. In other cases the infant fails in health from day to day, its cry is hoarse and feeble, its capacity for sucking diminishes, it becomes emaciated and dies of exhaustion. Later Lesions.—In the skin and subcutaneous tissue the later manifestations may take the form of localised gummata which tend to break down and form ulcers, on the leg for example, or of a spreading gummatous infiltration which is also liable to ulcerate, leaving disfiguring scars, especially on the face. The palate and fauces may be destroyed by ulceration. In the nose, especially when the ulcerative process is associated with a putrid discharge—ozsena—the destruction of tissue may be considerable and result in the most unsightly deformities. The entire palatal portions of the upper jaws, the vomer, turbinate and other bones bounding the nasal and oral cavities, may ultimately disappear, so that on looking into the mouth the base of the skull is readily seen. Gummatous disease is frequently observed also in the flat bones of the skull, in the bones of the hand, as syphilitic dactylitis, and in the bones of the forearm and leg. When the tibia is affected the disease is frequently bilateral, and may assume the form of gummatous ulcers and sinuses. In later years the tibia may present altera- tions in shape resulting from antecedent gummatous disease—for example, nodular thickenings of the shaft, flattening of the crest, or a more uniform increase in thickness and length of the entire shaft of the bone, which, when it is curved in addition, is described as the “sabre-blade” deformity. Among the lesions of the viscera mention should be made of gumma of