362 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. apple-jelly material to consist of aggregations of epithelioid and giant cells over which the epidermis is stretched and thinned. Tubercle bacilli are scanty and difficult to stain. The original nodules tend to fuse together, while fresh ones are formed at the margins. “ The epidermis, as a result of surface irritation in which pus organisms play a prominent part, becomes the seat of a catarrhal process attended with a discharge of pus which dries up, forming yellowish-brown crusts or scabs, and the apple-jelly nodules are thereby concealed ; when the scabs are removed what looks like a raw surface covered with pale granulation tissue is exposed ” (Norman Walker). Healing frequently occurs in the centre of the affected area while the disease continues to extend at the margins. When there is actual destruction of tissue and ulceration—the so-called lu}ms exedens” or idcerans”—healing is attended with cicatricial contraction, which may cause unsightly deformity. When the cheek is affected the lower eyelid may be drawn down and everted; when the lips are affected the mouth may be distorted or seriously diminished in size. When the nose is affected, both the skin and mucous surfaces are usually involved, and the nasal orifices may be narrowed or even obliterated; sometimes the entire soft parts, including the cartilages, are destroyed, leaving only the bones covered by tightly stretched scar tissue. The disease progresses very slowly, healing in some places and spreading at others. The patient complains of a burning sensa- tion, but very little of pain, and is chiefly concerned about the disfigurement. Nothing is more characteristic of lupus than the appearance of fresh nodules in parts which have already healed. In the course of years large tracts of the face and neck may become affected. From the lips it may spread on to the gum and palate, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of a raised, bright-red, papillary or villous surface. When the disease affects the gums the teeth may become loose and fall out. On i^arts of the body other than the face the disease- is even more chronic?, and is often attended with a considerable pro- duction of dense fibrous tissue — the so-called fibroid Iwpun ; there are very few tubercle nodules, and the disease has little tendency to destroy parts. Sometimes there is a warty thiclrening of the epidermis—lupus verrucosus. In the fingers and toes it may lead to a progressive destruction of tissue like that observed in certain forms of leprosy, and from the resulting loss of jcortions of the digits it has been called hipus mutila7is. In the lower extremity a remarkable form of