INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 197 they contain a considerable admixture of fibrous tissue, they are known as fibroids or fihro-mi/omata (Fig. 46). They present on section a fasciculated appearance which may resemble that of a section of balls of cotton. They are encapsulated and vascular tumours, and they frequently attain a large size. They may be single or multiple. While they may occasion neither inconveni- ence nor suffering, they frequently give rise to profuse liEemor- rhage from the uterus, and they may cause serious symptoms by pressing injuriously on the ureters or the intestine, or by complicating pregnancy and parturition. The Rhabdomyoma is an extremely rare form of tumour met with in the kidney, uterus, and testicle. It contains striped muscle fibres, and is supposed to originate from a residue of muscular tissue which has be- come sequestrated during de- velopment. Glioma. — A glioma is a tumour composed of neuroglia. It is met with exclusively in the central nervous system, retina, and optic nerve. It is a slowly growing, soft, ill- defined tumour which displaces the adjacent nerve centres and nerve tracts, and is liable to become the seat of hremorrhage and to give rise to pressure symptoms. The glioma of the retina tends to grow into the vitreous humour and to per- forate the globe. It is usually of the nature of a glio-sarcoma and is highly malignant. Endotheliomata constitute a multiform group of new growths which take origin from the endothelium of lymphatic vessels and spaces, of blood-vessels, serous cavities, bursae, and of the synovial membrane of joints and tendon sheaths. They show great variation in type, partly because of the number of different kinds of endothelium from which they are derived, and partly because the new connective tissue which is formed is liable to undergo tran.sformation into hyaline, cartilaginous or myxomatous tissue. They may be soft or hard, solid or cystic, diffuse or circumscribed; they grow very slowly, and are almost Flu. 46.—Fibro-myonia of Uterus. (Aiiatoinical Museum of the University of Edinburgh.)