CONGENITAL DISLOCATION OF PATELLA. 729 other congenital ahnormalities in the knee-joint, very rarely doe.s it occur by itself. The functions of the knee may be absolutely unimpaired. The tubercle of the tibia is prominent and the extensor tendon very thick. In flexion the tendon rises on to the outer condyle of the femur. Congenital Dislocation of the Patella Outwards.—This may be persistent or intermittent. In the -persistent form the patella rests on the trochlear surface of the external condyle, and when the knee is flexed, may jiass further outwards and become com[)letely dislocated, lying against the outer aspect of the condyle (Fig. 282). In the intermittent form the patella lies in its normal place, but is liable to be displaced outwards when the joint is flexed; the displacement usually occurs suddenly and unex- pectedly ill walking, and the patient falls to the ground, suffering intense jiain. The knee-cap is readily replaced on extending the joint, but the patient is usually disabled for a day or two. It is met with chiefly in girls, and there is usually a history that the child was late in walking and learned with difficulty. On examination, the patella is found to have an abnormal range of movement out- wards, although it cannot be com- pletely dislocated without causing severe pain. The condition is fre- cpiently bilateral, and is attributed to imperfect development of the external condyle of the femur. It is also met with in association with aggravated forms of knock-knee. To prevent the outward displacement of the patella, the ligamentum patellm may be detached from the tubercle of the tibia and fixed with sutures to a point internal to the tubercle, or the gracilis may be divided at its insertion, brought through a hole in the vastus iuternus and fixed to the inner border of the patella, the inner i>art of the capsule, and the muscular substance of the vastus internus (Lanz). Genu Recurvatum.—In this deformity the knee is hyper- extended, the thigh and leg forming an angle which is open forwards (Fig. 283). Fiu. 282.—Outward Dislocation of Patellae iii a girl aet. 14.