699 THE HIP-JOINT. with, the raw surface of the neck is implanted in the socket. This operation constitutes an excision of the joint. After either of these operations the limb is fixed in an attitude of marked abduction, so that when the patient resumes the erect posture, in order to restore the parallelism of the limbs he will be obliged to depress the pelvis on the affected side, and will so compensate, in part at least, for the shortening caused by the operation. Amputation for tuberculous disease of the hip has become one of the rarest operations of surgery, but is still required in cases which have continued to progress after excision, when there is disease of the pelvis or of the shaft of the femur, with septic sinuses, albuminuria, and hectic fever. In such cases the surgeon must be prepared not only to disarticulate at the hip-joint, but also to remove a portion of, or the entire innominate bone. Such extensive operations are usually carried out by some form of racket incision, which permits of the ligature of the main vessels as a preliminary measure. The Correction of Deformity resulting from Antecedent Disease of the Hip.—From neglect or from improper treatment, the deformities already described may have been allowed to persist, while the joint disease has recovered. They are a.ssociated either with ankylosis of the joint, or with con- tracture of the soft parts, or with a comljination of these conditions. The contracture of the soft parts involves specially the tendons, fasciae, and ligaments on the anterior and inner aspects of the joint, and is usually ]>resent to such a degree that, even if the joint were rendered mobile, these shortened structures would prevent correction of the deformity. It should be borne in mind that the difficulties of correction are so considerable that it should not be attempted unless the deformity is a serious hindrance to locomotion or a bar to remunerative occupation. The deformity most often present consists in a combination of shortening, flexion, and adduction. If flexion is the prominent feature, it may be corrected by performing an osteotomy through the neck of the femur (Adam’s operation), or through the trochanter if the neck of the bone has disappeared. The contracted soft parts are divided, either by subcutaneous or by open tenotomy, after which the limb is extended and abducted. In a patient whose occupation entails the sitting posture it may not be an advantage to correct flexion. If adduction and inversion are the prominent features, the choice lies between a transverse osteotomy below the lesser trochanter (Gant’s operation), an oblique osteotomy from above