396 THE BURSJ^. constitute the most evident factors in their production, it is probable that there is also some toxic agent concerned, otherwise these affections would be much more common than they are. Of the countless housemaids in whom the prepatellar bursa is subjected to friction and pressure, only a small proportion become the subjects of housemaid’s knee. Clinical features.—As these are best illustrated in the different varieties of prepatellar bursitis, it is convenient to take this as the type. In acute cases, the part is hot, swollen, and tender, and fluctuation may be detected in the bursa. The patient may be obliged to lie up. In the majority of cases the chief feature is the gradual accumulation of fluid constituting the hursal hydrops or hygroma. When the affection has lasted some time, or has frequently relapsed, the wall of the bursa becomes thickened by fibrous tissue. The fibrous thickening may be quite irregular and result in the formation of septa, bands or fringes not unlike those met with in arthritis deformans. The detachment of fringes may give rise to loose bodies like those met with in joints. Less frequently there are fibrinous bodies of the melon-seed type, sometimes moulded into circular discs like wafers. The presence of irregular thickenings of the wall, or of loose bodies, may be recognised on palpation—especially in superficial bursaj, if the sac is not tensely distended with fluid, Tliickening may take place in a uniform and concentric fashion, resulting in the for- mation of a fibrous tumour—the solid bursal tumour—a small cavity containing a little fluid remaining in the centre. The treatment varies according to the variety and stage of the affection. In recent cases the symptoms subside under rest and the application of fomentations. Hydrops may be got rid of by blistering, by tapping, or by incision and drainage. When the wall is thickened the most satisfactory treatment is to excise the bursa. The overlying skin should be reflected down- wards in the shape of a horse-shoe flap. Other Diseases of Bursae are associated with gonorrhoeal infection, and with rheumatism, especially that following scarlet fever, and are apt to be very persistent or to relapse after apparent cure. In the gouty form urate of soda is deposited in the wall of the bursa, and may result in the formation of chalky tumours, sometimes of considerable size. The suppurative form may be due to the extension of in- fection from adjacent tissue?—for example, from suppuration in a joint or in the cellular tissue; but it usually results from an infected wound implicating the bursa, or the skin and sub-