269 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. The prognosis is, on the whole, unfavourable, as these patients usually succumb sooner or later to hajinorrhage, although they often survive several very severe attacks. After middle life the tendency to bleed appears to diminish. Treatment.—As a rule the ordinary styptics and other means of arresting hmmorrhage are of little avail, and in most cases it is only after trying many remedies that the bleeding ceases. From among the numerous means suggested for treating this disease the following may be mentioned. The a])plication to the bleeding jmint of gauze soaked in a 1 in 1000 solution of adrenalin has been found beneficial, as has also the use of the blood of a healthy })erson applied in the same way. The pro- longed inhalation of oxygen has recently been recommended. The oozing may be controlled, temporarily at least, liy freezing the part with a s})ray of ethyl-chloride. One or more sub- cutaneous injections of gelatin may be given—five ounces of a 2i per cent, solution of white gelatin in normal salt solution being injected at a temperature of about 100° F. In the prophylaxis of hieniophilia, chloride of calcium and extract of thymus gland have been recommended as having the property of increasing the coagulability of the Idood, but if the circula- tion is very weak their use is attended with risk of thrombosis. Diseases of Blood-Vessels. The processes known as thrombosis and embolism are so intimately associated with the diseases of blood-vessels that it is convenient to define these terms in the fir.st instance. Thrombosis.—The term thrombus is applied to a clot of blood formed in the interior of the heart or of a blood-vessel, and the process by which .such a clot is formed is known as thrombosis. The essential cause of thrombosis is as yet not thoroughly under- stood. It would appear, however, that slowing or stagnation of the blood-stream, and interference with the integrity of the lining membrane of the vessel wall, are the most important factors deter- mining the formation of the clot. When the thrombus is formed slowly it is of a greyish-white colour, and, being deposited in successive layers, has a distinctly laminated appearance on section. This is known as a tvJdte thrombus or laminated clot, and is often met with in the sac of an aneurysm (Fig. 65). When rapidly formed in a vessel in which the blood is almost stagnant—as, for example, in a large varicose vein—the blood coagulates eji masse and the clot consists of all the elements of the blood, constituting a red throinbus. Sometimes the