SYPHILIS. 164 In some cases the general health is not disturbed; in others the patient is feverish and out of sorts, losing appetite, becoming pale and anaemic, complaining of lassitude, incapacity for exertion, headache, and pains of a rheumatic type referred to the bones. In isolated cases the tempierature rises to 101° or 102° F. and the j^atient loses flesh. The lymphatic glands accessible to palpation, particularly those along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, become enlarged and slightly tender. The hair comes out, eruptions appear on the skin and mucous membranes, and the patient may suffer from sore throat and affections of the eyes. Affections of the Shin are among the most constant manifestations of secondary syphilis. An evanescent macular rash, not unlike that of measles—roseola—is the first to appear, usually in from six to eight weeks frctni the date of infection; it is widely diffused over both aspects of the trunk, and the original dull rose-colour soon fades, leaving brownish stains which in time disappear. It is usually followed by a papular eruption, the individual papules being raised above the surface of the skin, smooth or scaly, and as they are due to infiltration of the skin they are more persistent than the roseoles. They vary in size and distribution, being sometimes small, hard, polished, and closely aggregated like lichen, sometimes as large as a shilling-piece, with an accumulation of scales on the surface like that seen in psoriasis. The co-existence of scaly papules and faded roseoles is very suggestive of syphilis. Other types of eruption are less common than the jDrecediug, and are met with from the third month onwards. A pustular eruption, not unlike that of acne or of chicken-pox, is sometimes a prominent feature, but is not characteristic of syphilis unless it affects the scalp and forehead and is associated with the remains of the papular eruption. The term ichthyma is applied when the pustules are of large size, and, after breaking on the surface, give rise to superficial ulcers ■, the discharge from the ulcer often dries ujr and forms a scab or crust which is continually added to from below as the ulcer extends in area and depth. The term rupia is applied when the crusts are prominent, dark in colour, and conical in shape, roughly resembling the shell of a limpet. If the crust is detached, a sharply defined ulcer is exposed, and wdien this heals it leaves a scar which is usually circular, thin, white, shining like satin, and the surrounding skin is darkly pigmented ; in the case of deep ulcers, the scar is depressed and fixed. The student must be prejjared to meet with all gradations , of skin lesions from papules to punched-out ulcers, and should