412 INJURIES OF BONES. in simple fractures. The femoral, popliteal and tibial arteries, however, are liable to be compressed, punctured, or torn across in fractures of the bones with which they lie in close contact. Thrombosis, aneurysm, or gangrene of the limb may follow such injuries. If large veins are injured, venous thrombosis may occur and this may lead to pulmonary embolism. Injuries to nerve trunks are comparatively common, especially in fractures of the upper arm, where the musculo-spiral, ulnar, or other branches of the brachial plexus are liable to suffer; and in fracture of the neck of the fibula, w'here the external popliteal may be involved. The nerves may be implicated at the time of the injury, being comj^ressed, bruised, lacerated, or completely torn across by broken fragments, or they may be involved later by becoming compressed by callus. The symptoms depend upon the degree of damage sustained by the nerve, and vary from partial and temporary interference with sensation and motion to complete and permanent abrogation of function. Suppuration and necrosis are exceedingly rare sequelae of simple fractures. Fat embolism sometimes occurs, and fat globules are found in the urine. Delirium tremens is a not infrequent accompaniment of fractures in persons addicted to alcohol. Prognosis in Simple Fractures.—Danger to life in simple fractures depends chiefly on the occurrence of complications. In old people, when the injury necessitates long and continuous lying on the back, bronchitis, hypostatic pneumonia, and bed- sores are prone to occur. Gradually increasing debility and mental deterioration also cause anxiety in these cases. Fractures complicated with injury to internal organs, and fractures where gangrene threatens, are, of course, of grave import. The prognosis as regards the function of the limb should always be guarded, even in simple fractures. Incidental com- plications are liable to arise, delaying recovery and preventing a satisfactory result, and these not only lead to disappointment, but may even form a ground for actions for malpraxis. The character, direction, and extent of the fracture influence the prognosis, the best results usually following single and transverse breaks, while those which are multiple, comminuted, or oblique unite less rapidly and less satisfactorily. Fibrous union is a common result in fractures of the neck of the femur in old people and in certain other fractures, such as fracture of the patella, of the olecranon, coronoid, and coracoid processes —-a prospect of which the patient should be duly warned.