750 THE DEEOKMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. is congenital, and which is quite independent of paralysis. It is attributed to paralysis of the extensor brevis digitorum or of the interossei, but the evidence in support of this explanation is by no means convincing. It occurs in certain rare diseases of the spinal cord, such as Friedreich’s ataxia. The name hollow claw-foot appropriately indicates the clinical appearances. The arch is exaggerated and the instep abnormally high; there is hyper-extension of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal joints, and plantar-flexion at the inter- phalangeal joints ; the plantar fascia and muscles are shortened. The footprint shows that neither border of the foot touches the ground. The patient may complain of pain in the instep, of painful corns over the heads of the metatarsal bones, and of difficulty in getting ])roperly fitting boots. Treatment should first be directed towards the equinus or calcaneus element of the deformity, for if these are corrected the cavus condition tends to disappear. The contracted structures in the sole may require to be divided, either sub- cutaneously or by the ojjen method, as a preliminary to forcible correction. Flat-foot—Pes Planus and Pes Valgus. Flat-foot or splay-foot is that deformity in which there is loss of the arch, and the foot tends to be pronated and abducted. The term pes planus is applicable when there is merely loss of the arch; pes valgus when the foot is pronated so that the sole tends to look outwards. Of all deformities of the foot, flat-foot is the one for which advice is most frequently sought. It is usually bilateral, and is about twice as common in men as in women. Various types of flat-foot are met with; they are known as static, congenital, traumatic, paralytic, rachitic, rheumatic, arthritic, gonorrhoeal, and tabetic. Static or Adolescent Flat-foot,—This, by far the most common and most important variety of flat-foot (Fig. 298), most frequently develops between the ages of fourteen and twenty. It is called static because the essential factor in its production is a disproportion between the weight of the body and the supporting power of the arch of the foot, when the patient is in the erect posture. It is met with chiefly in rapidly growing persons with feeble muscles and long nari’ow feet, who, after leaving school, begin some occupation which entails much standing and walking —such as that of a factory hand, message boy, or domestic servant.