TRIGEMINAL NEURALGIA. 355 frequently alfected. It can be exposed before it enters the bone by trephining the ascending ramus of the lower jaw' opposite the last molar tooth, and below, by cutting down on the nerve as it emerges from the mental foramen; the intervening portion is then pulled out from the inferior dental canal. The lingual nerve is also exposed lying in front of the inferior dental when the ascending i-amus of the lower jaw is trephined. The auriculo-temporal branch can be exposed by a vertical incision crossing the zygoma immediately in front of the ear. The entire trunk of the third division may be exposed at the foramen ovale by an' operation in which the zygoma and the masseter muscle are displaced downwards, the temporal muscle and coronoid process upwards, and the lingual and inferior dental branches are then traced upwards until the main trunk is reached at its emergence from the skull. When the neuralgia involves branches of two or of all three divisions, or when it has recurred after temporary relief following resection of individual branches, the removal of the Gasserian ganglion, along with the main trunks of the second and third divisions, should be considered. This is usually carried out by what is known as the Krause-Hartley operation, which consists in making a large opening into the skull in the temporal region, strip[)ing up the dura, and raising the temporo-si)henoidal lobe of the brain from the middle fossa of the skull until the ganglion is exposed lying on the upper aspect of the petrous temporal bone. The operation is a dihicult and serious one, but the results are satisfactory so far as the cure of the neuralgia is concerned. Krause reports twenty-seven cases with three deaths. There is little or no disability from the unilateral paralysis of the muscles of mastication; but on account of the insensitiveness of the cornea, the eye must be carefully protected from irritation, especially during the first month or two after the 0})eration ; this may be done by fixing a large watch-glass around the edge of the orbit with aclhesive plaster. In cases in which the removal of the Gasserian ganglion is contra-indicated, it may be worth while to excise the superior' ganglion of the cervical sympjathetic. The resulting vaso-motor disturbance may lead to the disappearance of the neuralgia, although this result may be delayed for several months, and cannot be relied upon.