DISEASES OF BONE. 580 to deviate from the normal, as in knock-knee and bow-knee. In bacterial diseases originating in the marrow, if the epiphysial junction is directly involved in the destructive process, its bone-forming functions may be retarded or abolished, and the subsequent growth of the bone be seriously interfered with. On the other hand, if it is not directly involved, but is merely influenced by the proximity of an inflammatory process, its bone-forming functions may be stimulated and the growth of the bone in length exaggerated. In paralysed limbs the growth from the epiphyse.s, although sometimes retarded or arrested, is usually little short of the normal. The result of interference with growth is more injurious in the lower than in the upper limb, because, from the functional point of view, it is essential that tlie lower extremities should be approximately of equal length. In the forearm or leg, where there are two parallel bones, if the growth of one is arrested the con- tinued growth of the other results in.a deviation of the hand or foot to one side. In certain constitutional diseases, such as rickets and inherited syphilis, dwarfing of the individual results when all the ejuphyses have their activities retarded. Regeneration of Bone.—When bone has been lost or destroyed as a result of injury or disease, it is capable of being reproduced, the ex- tent to which regeneration takes place varying under different con- ditions. The chief part in the regeneration of bone is played by the periosteum, in virtue of the active functions possessed by the layer of osteoblasts on its deep surface. Provided the periosteum has been preserved, the whole shaft of a long bone may be reproduced after having been destroyed by disease or removed by operation. The reproductive capacity of the periosteum covering the epiphyses is usually more restricted. The periosteum of the flat bones of the skull and of the bones of the face, which are primarily developed in membrane, has very little capacity of forming new bone ; hence, when bone has been lost or removed in these situations, there often results a permanent defect, even although the periosteum has been preserved. The marrow plays a minor part in the regeneration of hone. It is chiefly of service in eating away or removing periosteal bone which is not permanently required, and in modelling the new bone according to architectural requirements. Wounds or defects in articular cartilage are repaired chiefly by the formation of fibrous or osseous tissue. Transplantation of Bone—Bone-grafting.—There is still difference of opinion as to the fate of portions of bone which have been removed from their native soil and impilanted elsewhere, or reimplanted in the situation from which they were detached. According to Barth and others, the implanted portion of bone remains quite passive, like any other aseptic foreign body, such as ivory or calcined bone, and is gradually penetrated by the surrounding vessels and tissue elements, and finally replaced by new bone. Clinical experience is conclusive that a portion of bone which has been completely detached from its surroundings—for example, a trephine circle, or a flaji of bone detached with the saw, or the loose fragments in a compound fracture—may unite if replaced in position, and may after an interval present a surface which is absolutely intact, while at its margins it is firmly and permanently incorporated with the surrounding bone. Embedded foreign bodies, on the other hand, such as ivory pegs or decalcified bone, exhibit, on removal after a sufficient interval, evidence in tlie