DISEASES OF JOINTS. 640 mittent synovitis or hydrops has been shown to depend in certain cases on chronic staphylococcal disease of one of the adjacent bones, such as Brodie’s abscess, the treatment of which is essential for permanent recovery. It closely resembles the hydrops of gonorrhoeal or tuberculous origin. In certain cases of pyogenic infection the disease remains latent for a time, and the clinical manifestations are so slight that they may escape notice until some striking development, such as dislocation, draws attention to them. This latency is observed chiefly in the hip when the joint has become infected in the course of some acute illness, such as scarlet or typhoid fever, or pymniia. In the graver infections, the suppurative element is more prominent, the effusion into the joint soon becoming purulent, and there is general illness, often ushered in with a rigor. The local signs and symptoms are those of an acute arthritis, in which all the joint structures participate, and which, if left to itself, may result in disorganisation. The synovial membrane is converted into granulation tissue; the ligaments and inter-articular cartilages .share a similar fate. The articular cartilages, which are at first dulled and macerated, undergo fibrillation and necrosis, and separate in visibleTragments. The marrow of the subjacent bone thus exposed becomes the seat of inflammation, and throws out granulations which appear on the articular surface and lead to the disintegration of bone described as articular caries (p. 635). The joint is held rigid by the involuntary contraction of muscles, and the least attempt at movement causes severe pain. The slightest jar—even the shaking of the bed—may cause agony. Sleep is impossible, or is disturbed by starting pains. Distension of the joint and fluctuation may be evident, or they may be obscured by oedema of the overlying soft parts. Some- times the entire limb is swollen and oedematous. If left to itself the joint usually becomes flexed. The pus in the joint may perforate the capsule and spread in the surrounding tissues. Sooner or later the abscess ruptures on the surface and discharges through one or more sinuses. The final disorganisation of the joint, with destruction of its ligaments, may be indicated by abnormal mobility, by grating of the articular surfaces, or by dislocation. In the acute arthritis of infants, the epiphysis concerned may be separated and displaced. The progress of the local disease is associated with aggravation of the general symptoms, and the patient is poisoned with toxins and exhausted by suffering.