693 THE HIP-JOINT. ance lies in the fact that if a mixed infection with pyogenic organisms occurs the gravity of the condition is greatly increased, the patient being exposed to all the risks of septic poisoning. An abscess may appear in the thigh in front of or behind the joint. The anterior abscess usually comes to the surface on one or other side of the psoas muscle. From the resistance offered by the fascia lata, the pus may gravitate down the thigh before perforating the fascia and pointing. It has occasionally happened that when such an abscess has been opened and become septic, the femoral vessels have been eroded, and serious or even fatal hiemorrhage has resulted. The posterior abscess develops in the gluteal region, and may make its way to the surface through the gluteus maximus ; more often it points at the lower border of this muscle in the region of the great trochanter, or it may gravitate down the thigh. Abscesses which form within the pelvis originate either in connection with the acetabulum or in relation to the psoas muscle where it j>asses in front of the joint. Those which are directly connected with disease of the acetabulum may remain localised to the lateral wall of the pelvis, or may spread back- wards towards the hollow of the sacrum. They may ojien into the bladder or rectum, or may ascend into the iliac fossa and point above Poupart’s ligament, or descend towards the ischio-rectal fossa. The abscess which develops in relation to the psoas muscle may be shaped like an hour-glass, one sac occupying the iliac fossa, the other fflling up Scarpa’s triangle, the two sacs communicating with each other through a narrow neck beneath Poupart’s ligament. So long as the skin is unbroken the abscess is unattended with fever or pain. If the abscess bursts externally septic infection is almost inevitable, and if the opening is insufficient for drainage, there occur repeated attacks of 'inflammation attended with fever, burrowing of pus, and the formation of fresh sinuses. The patient gradually passes into the con- dition of hectic fever or chronic septic poisoning; he loses ground from day to day, may become the subject of waxy disease in the viscera, or may die of exhaustion, tuberculous meningitis, or general tuberculosis. The presence of septic sinuses is not incompatible with recovery, but these are a source of danger to which the patient should not be exposed if he comes under treatment with unbroken skin. Dislocation is a rare complication of hip disease and is most likely to occur during the stage of adduction with inversion.