DISEASES OF BONE. 596 and sclerosis, of suppurative osteomyelitis with or without necrosis, or of chronic abscess of bone. Necrosis ivithout suppu7'ation, described by Paget under the name “ quiet necrosis,” is a rare disease, and would appear to be associated with an attenuated form of stajdiylococcal infection (Tavel). It occurs in adults, being met with up to the age of fifty or sixty, and it is characterised by the insidious develop- ment of a swelling, involving a considerable extent of a long bone. The pain varies in intensity, and may be continuous or intermittent, and there is tenderness on pressure. The shaft of the bone is increased in girth, as a result of its being surrounded by a new case derived from the periosteum. The resemblance to sarcoma may be very close, but the swelling is not as defined as in sarcoma, nor does it ever assume the characteristic “ leg of mutton ” shape. In both diseases there is a tendency to pathological fracture. It is difficult also to differentiate the condition from •syphilitic and from tuberculous disease. If the diagnosis is not established after examination with the X-rays, it should be completed by an exploratory operation. If dead bone is found it is removed in the same way as in necrosis following acute osteomyelitis. Osteomyelitis due to Pyogenic Infections other than the Staphylococcus Aureus.—In the forms of osteomyelitis above described, the infection is almost always due to the .staphylococcus aureus, but other organisms having pyogenic properties may give rise to similar affections. The staphylococcus albus, the streptococcus pyogenes, and the pneumococcus, for example, some- times cause osteomyelitis, particularly in young subjects, but the disease is, as a rule, of a milder type than that caused by the staphylococcus aureus, is attended with less profuse suppura- tion, and is not so liable to be followed by necrosis. In the streptococcal and pneumococcal forms the adjacent joint is not infrequently affected. The Typhoid Bacillus.—In typhoid fever the bone marrow is markedly congested, and is liable to be invaded by bacilli which may set up osteomyelitis soon after their lodgment, or may lie latent for a considerable period before doing so. . The le.sions in the bones may be single or multiple, they may involve the marrow oj’ the periosteum or both, and they may or may not be attended with suppuration. They are most commonly met with in the tibia and in the ribs at the costo-chondral junctions. The bone lesions msually occur during the seventh or eighth week of the fever. The chief complaint is of vague pains, at