512 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. one another, in which case the membranous portion of the urethra, or the bladder wall, is liable to be torn. The displaced bones may be palpated through the skin, or by vaginal or rectal examination. The pubic portion of the pelvic ring is the most common seat of fracture. The bone gives way at its weakest points— namely, through the horizontal ramus of the pubes just in front of the pectineal eminence, and at the lower part of the descending ramus (Fig. 163). The intervening fragment of bone is isolated, and may be displaced. These fractures are frequently bi- lateral, and are often associated with separation of the sacro- iliac joint, with longitudinal fracture of the sacrum (Fig. 165), or with other fractures of the pelvic bones. Injuries of the membran- ous urethra and bladder are frequent complications of these fractures (Vol. II.). Less commonly the rectum, the vagina, or the iliac blood- vessels are damaged. Localised tenderness at the seat of fracture, pain referred to that point on pressing to- gether or separating the iliac crests, and mobility of the fragments with crepitus, are usually present. The frag- ments may sometimes be felt on rectal or vaginal examination. As in all cases of pelvic fracture, shock is a prominent feature. The lateral and posterior aspects of the pelvic ring may be implicated either in association with pubic fractures or inde- pendently. Thus a fracture of the iliac bone may run into the great sciatic notch; or a vertical fracture of the sacrum or separation of the sacro-iliac joint may break the continuity of the pelvic brim. In rare cases these injuries are accompanied by damage to the intestines, the rectum, the sacral nerves, or the iliac blood-vessels. Treatment.—In all fractures of the pelvis it is of importance that the patient be moved and handled with the greatest possible care, lest fragments become displaced and injure the viscera, Fig. 163.—Fracture of Pelvis through Horizontal and Descending Rami of Puhes.