ACUTE CIRCUMSCRIBED ABSCESS. 53 of the subsequent contraction of the newly formed connective tissue, the scar is usually depressed below the level of the sur- rounding skin surface. If an abscess is prevented from healing—for example, by the presence of a foreign body or a piece of necrosed bone—a sinus re- sults, and from it pus escapes until the foreign body is removed. Clinical Features of an Acute Circumscribed Abscess.— The formation of an acute abscess is always i)receded and accom- panied by the presence of inflammation, and the clinical char- acters of the two conditions are blended. Rigors, increased elevation of temperature, progressive leucocytosis, and sweating, mark the transition between inflammation and suppuration. In some cases an increasing leucocytosis is the only available evidence that a suppurative process is spreading. On the other hand, if the toxiemia is intense the leucocytes may diminish in number and even fall below the normal. The local symptoms vary with the seat of the abscess. When it is situated superficially—for example, in the breast tissue—the affected area is hot, the redness of inflammation gives })lace to a dusky purple colour, with a pale, sometimes yellow, spot where the pus nears the surface. The swelling increases in size, the firm brawny centre becomes soft, projects as a cone beyond the level of the rest of the swollen area, and is usually surrounded by a zone of induration. By placing the fingers of one hand over a part of the swelling, and gently tapping or pressing at another part, a fluid wave may be detected in the softened area. This is known as Jluctuation, and when present is a certain indication of the existence of fluid in the swelling. Its recognition, however, is by no means easy, and various fallacies are to be guarded against in aj)plying this test clinically. When, for example, the walls of the abscess are thick and rigid, or when its contents are under excessive tension, the fluid wave cannot be elicited. On the other hand, a sensa- tion closely resembling true fluctuation inay often be recognised on palpating cedematous tissues, certain soft solid tumours such as fatty tumours or vascular sarcomata, and in some cases of aneurysm. When palpated in its transverse axis, a large mus- cular mass, such as the gluteal muscles, also yields this pseudo- fluctuation. When pus has formed in deeper parts, and before it has reached the surface, oedema of the overlying skin is very fre- quently present, and the skin pits on pressure. With the formation of pus the continuous burning or boring pain of inflammation assumes a throbbing character, with