15 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. As originally enunciated, Metclinikoff’s theory of phagocytosis was not sufficient to prove the predominance of the leucocytes in the i)roduction of immunity, particularly in view of the fact that the ingestion process was found to go on most actively in immunised animals. Additional support has been given to his view, however, by the experiments of Buchner, which show that, as a necessary jireliminary to phagocytosis, an extra-cellular influence is exerted on the bacteria by certain nucleo-proteids, of the nature of enzymes—termed alexins—which are the secretory product of living leucocytes. The most recent investigations seem to indicate that it is by the combined action of alexins and of phagocytes that the tissues are enabled to resist and overcome the attacks of patho- genic bacteria. There is also reason to believe that as a result of these biological processes certain antitoxic bodies are elaborated in the blood, and that it is on the presence of these that immunity depends. Ehrlich’s investigations have been directed towards elucidating the chemical processes by which these anti- toxins are produced, and by which they neutralise the toxins, but his theory of immunity is too complicated to be discussed here. Suffice it to say that the mode of action of antitoxins appears to be a purely chemical one, the antitoxin uniting with its specific toxin, and producing a compound which has no poisonous properties. Certain highly useful and practical conclusions have been arrived at as a result of these investigations. The chief of these is that immunity from certain diseases may be produced by artificial inoculation with the products of the organisms which cause them. Artificial immunity may be induced in one of two ways— (a) by injecting into an animal a series of non-lethal doses of an organism or its toxins ; or (6) by injecting the serum of an animal highly immunised by the previous method. The latter is the principle on which the modern antitoxin method of treatment is' based, and it may act either against specific toxins, as in the case of the anti-diphtheric and the anti-tetanus sera {antitoxic sera), or against specific organisms, as in the anti- streptococcic serum {anti-microhic sera). The antitoxic sera are produced by a process of which the following are the essential steps; — (1) a powerful toxin is obtained from artificial cultures of a highly virulent organism. (2) The power of this toxin is estimated by experimental injec- tions into animals of known weight, until a standard of toxicity is obtained; (3) a large animal—for example, the horse—after