COMPOUND FRACTUEER. 419 caused by a pointed fragment coming tlirough the skin, it is never wise to assume that the wound is not infected. It is much safer to enlarge such a wound, pare away the bruised edges, and disinfect the raw surfaces. In cases of extensive laceration of the soft parts, all soiled, bruised, or torn portions of tissue .should be cli2)ped away with scissors, blood-clots removed, and the bleeding arrested by forci- pressure or ligature. When there is good reason to believe that the wound is not already infected, any fragments of bone com- [)letely sejmrated from the i)eriosteum may be left; but when there is any susjiicion of infection they had better be removed. The wound should then be washed out with sterilised salt solution. On the whole, it is safer not to attem^it to obtain jwimary union by comjjletely closing such wounds, but rather to drain or j^artially 2'ack them, counter-oi)enings being made at dejjendent joints if necessary. In other resjiects the treatment of compound fractures is carried out on the same lines as in sinpde fractures, jirovision being made for dressing the wound, without undue disturbance of the bones. Massage and movement should be commenced after the wound is healed and the condition has become analo- gous to a simjile fracture. Question of Amputation in Compound Fractures.—Before deciding to j^erform primary amputation of a limb for comi>ound fracture the surgeon must satisfy himself (1) that the attainment of asepsis is impossible; (2) that the soft jwts are so widely and so grossly damaged, that their recovery is improbable ; 13) that the vascular and nervous sujjjdy of the jiarts beyond has been rendered insufficient by destruction of the main blood- vessels and nerve trunks; (4) that the bones have been so shattered as to be beyond repair; and (5) that the limb, even if healing takes place, will be less useful than the stum^) re- .sulting after a suitable am^mtation. In attem2)ting to save the limb of a young suliject it is justifiable to run risks which would not be jiermissible in the case of an older person. To save an ujiper limb, also, risks may be run which would not be justifiable in the case of a lower limb, because, while a serviceable artificial leg can readily be [irocured, any jjortion of the natural hand or arm is infinitely more useful than the best substitute which the instru- ment-maker can contrive. The risk involved in attempting to save a limb .should always be ex})lained to the patient or his friends, in order that they may sliare the respon.sibility in case of failure.