373 CANCER. considerable importance, as the latter affection, from its tendency to spread by the lymphatics, is much more dangerous to life. Treatment.—In rodent cancers of limited size—say less than one inch in diameter—free excision is the most rapid and certain method of treatment. The alternative is the application of the Rdntgen rays, which, although requiring many exposures over a period of weeks or months, results in cure with the minimum of disfigurement. If the cancer already covers an extensive area of the face, or has invaded the cavity of the orbit or nose, the Rdntgen rays again yield the best results. The effect of the Rdntgen rays is soon shown by the ingrowth of healthy epithelium from the surrounding skin, so that heal- ing is promoted, and at the same time the pain and discharge are much lessened. Melanotic Cancer.—Under this head are included all new growths of the skin which contain an excess of melanin pigment. Many of these were formerly described as melanotic sarcoma. They nearly al- ways originate in a pig- mented mole which has been subjected to irrita- tion. The primary growth may remain so small that its presence is not even suspected, or it may in- crease in size, ulcerate, through the and fungate Fig. 84.—Rodent Cancer of fifteen years’ duration, wliicli lias destroyed contents of Orbit. (Mr. J. M. Cotterill's case.) skin. The amount of pig- ment varies : when small in amount the growth is brown, when abundant it is a deep black. The most remarkable feature is the rapidity with which the disease becomes disseminated along the lymphatics, the first evidence of which is an enlargement of the lymjrhatic glands. As the primary growth is often situated on the sole of the foot (Fig. 85) or in the matrix of the nail of the great toe, the femoral and inguinal glands become enlarged in succession, forming tumours much larger than the primary growth. Sometimes the dissemination involves l4fe lymphatic vessels of the limb, forming a series of indurated pigmented cords and nodules (Fig. 86). Lastly, the dissemination may be universal throughout the body, and this usually occurs at a comparatively