THE NERVES. 352 sacro-sciatic foramen, the hollow between the trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, and where the external j^opliteal nerve winds round the neck of the fibula. The muscles of the thigh are often wasted and,weak. The clinical features vary a good deal in different cases, but the affection is often very obstinate, and may last for many weeks or even months. In the sciatica which results from neuritis, there may be patches of cutaneous ansesthesia, loss of tendon refiexes, localised wasting of muscles, and vaso-motor and trophic changes. The presence of the reaction of degeneration confirms the diagnosis of neuritis. A diminution in the surface temperature of the limb is held by some to be pathognomonic. In long-standing cases, the pain and discomfort may lead to a postural scoliosis {ischia scoliotica). Diagnosis.—Pain referred along the course of the sciatic nerve is a common symptom of tumours of the uterus, the rectum, or the pelvic bones. It may result also from the pressure of an abscess or an aneurysm either inside the j^elvis or in the buttock, and is sometimes associated with organic disease of the spinal cord, such as tabes. Sciatica may also be mistaken for disease in the hip or sacro-iliac joints, especially tuberculous disease and arthritis deformans. It is necessary, therefore, to exclude such conditions before arriving at a diagnosis of sciatica. A digital examination of the rectum or vagina is often of great value in excluding intra-pelvic tumours. Treatment is both general and local. Any constitutional tendency, such as gout or rheumatism, must be counteracted, and indigestion, oxaluria, and constipation must receive appropriate treatment. In acute cases the patient is confined to bed, the limb is wrapped up in wool, and the knee is flexed over a pillow. A rubber hot bottle may be applied over the seat of greatest pain. The bowels should be well opened by castor oil or by calomel followed by a saline. Salicylate of soda in full doses, or aspirin, usually proves effectual in relieving pain, but when this is very intense it may call for injections of morphin. Great benefit has been obtained from the injection into the nerve itself at its point of emergence from the sciatic foramen, of a 1 per cent, solution of /3-eucaine in 8 per cent, saline solution. From 70-100 c.c. of the solution are injected at one time. If the pain recurs, a second injection is usually followed by its complete disappearance (Lange). In the less severe cases the patient should be encouraged to move about and take regular exercise. Marked relief usually results from bathing, douching, and massage, and from repeated