66 SUPPURATION. remissions (Fig. 5). The heart’s action is markedly depressed, and the pulse is soft and compressible. The appetite is lost, the tongue dry and covered with a thin brownish-red fur, so that it has the appearance of “ dried beef.” The urine is scanty and loaded with urates. In severe cases vomiting of dark coffee- ground material and diarrhoea are often prominent features. Death is usually impending when the skin becomes cold and clammy, the mucous membranes livid, the pulse feeble and fluttering, the discharges involuntary, and when a low form of muttering delirium is jjresent. A local focus of septic infection is always present,—it may be an abscess, a septic compound fracture, or a septic infection of the cavity of the uterus, for example, an incomplete abortion or a retained portion of placenta., Prognosis.—As the symptoms are due to definite doses of the toxin, the prognosis depends upon the amount already absorbed, the resisting powers of the patient, and the possibility of arresting further absorption. If the decomposing material is at once removed, and if a lethal dose of the poison has not already entered the circulation, the prognosis is good, and the symptoms begin to subside as soon as the supply is cut off. Treatment.—The first and clearest indication in treatment is the immediate and complete removal of the infected material. The wound must be freely opened, all blood-clot, discharge, or necrosed tissue thoroughly removed, and the area disinfected, by washing with sterilised salt solution, peroxide of hydrogen, or boracic acid. Stronger lotions are to be avoided as being likely to depress the tissues on the surface of the wound, and so to interfere with protective phagocytosis. On account of its power of neutralising toxins, iodoform is a useful application in these cases, and is best employed by packing the wound with iodoform gauze, and treating it by the open method, if this is possible. To aid the patient in getting rid of the poison already absorbed, general stimulants are useful. In serious cases alcohol in the form of brandy or whisky, in hourly half-ounce doses; hypodermic injections of strychnine (l/60th to l/30th gr. every hour), digitalin (1/lOOth gr. every hour), or adrenalin (10 to 15 minims of a 1-1000 solution), may be required. The kidneys should be flushed bj^ administering large quantities of bland fluids by the mouth or rectum. The vomiting can sometimes be checked by effervescing drinks such as citrate of caffein, or by dilute hydrocyanic acid and bismuth. In severe cases, and especially when the vomited matter resembles coffee-grounds from admixture with altered blood,—the so-called post-oi>erative