708 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. observe any symptoms of implication of the articular surfaces or of the formation of a cold abscess. On ojaening the joint, there may escape fluid and loose bodies similar to those described under hydrops, and if the finger is introduced into the cavity, the upper pouch may be felt to be occupied by fringes or polypoidal processes derived from the synovial membrane. The diagnosis is to be made from arthritis deformans, and in some cases from loose body of other than tuberculous origin. The treatment specially applicable to this type is to remove the diseased synovial membrane. (3) Cold abscess or empyema of the knee is a rare condition, in which the joint becomes filled with pus. It usually results from a primary tuberculosis of the synovial membrane occurring in those who are much reduced in health, and who are the subjects of tuberculosis elsewhere. While usually insidious in its development and progress, an acute form attended with fever may be met with in children. The treatment consists in rvith- drawing the pus, and in injecting iodoform into the joint. (4) Diffuse Thichening of the Synovial Membrane— White Swelling.—When this type of disease remains confined to the synovial membrane, the chief clinical feature is that of an indolent elastic swelling in the area of the joint. The swelling tapers oflf above and below, so that it acquires a fusiform shajre, and on account of wasting of the muscles it appears greater than it really is. The range of movement is restricted. The patient limps, keeps the knee slightly flexed, and complains of tiredness and stiffness after exertion. As time goes on, the articular surfaces become affected and more severe symptoms ensue. There is pain, which is readily excited by jarring of the limb or by any attempt at movement; there may be startings at night which interfere with sleep ; and the joint is held rigid. If untreated, flexion becomes more pronounced—it may be to a right angle—the leg and foot are rotated outwards, and, in children, the tibia may be displaced backwards. The wasting of muscles continues, the part becomes hot to the touch, the swelling increases, and may show areas of softening or fluctuation from abscess formation. White swelling is to be differentiated from peri-synovial gummata, from sarcoma of the lower end of the femur, and from bleeder’s knee. In the first of these the swelling is nodular and less uniform, and there may be tertiary ulcers or depressed scars in the neighbourhood of the patella. In sarcoma, the swelling is more marked on one side of the joint.