42 INFLAMMATION. peri})lieral parts of the vessels increases, the blood as it comes into contact with the devitalised portions of the vessel wall has its how arrested,—stasis,—and the red corpuscles fall out of the central part of the vessel and mix with the serum and leucocytes. Leucocytes find their way through the walls of the small veins and capillaries in gradually increasing numbers, till the whole of the connective tissue in the vicinity becomes infiltrated with them—emigration of leucocytes. The fluid portion of the blood also exudes through the walls, and the connective tissue becomes water-logged. Eed corpuscles are carried out through the openings made by the leucocytes, and lie singly or in clumps in the meshes of the connective tissue—diapedesis of red corpuscles. The emigration of leucocytes, resulting in a local leucocytosis, is one of the most important phenomena of inflammation, and on it the protective character of the inflammatory process depends. The determination of leucocytes to the seat of bacterial invasion enables them to bring their phagocytic action to bear against the. organisms, and so to check their advance. Coincidently with these changes, a proliferation of the fixed tissue cells of the i^art takes place. As has been said, the serous exudate in this stage of inflammation is copious, and it varies in character with different micro-organisms and in different tissues. When the exudate remains fluid, it is spoken of as serous, as in serous synovitis. In most inflammations the exuded fluid coagulates more or less completely, and is then termed sero-fibrin- ous. On the free surface of mucous membranes it sometimes forms a dull grey tough layer, composed of a mixture of fibrin, mucin, and dead epithelial cells, constituting a croupous exudate. In very vascular tis.sues with friable vessels, during an acute inflammation, somewhat copious bleeding may accompany the exudation into the tissues—hoemorrhagic exudate. Other terms, which explain themselves, are applied to inflammatory exudates, such as purulent, putrid, ichorous. In severe and long-continued inflammation the endothelium of the vessels becomes so profoundly altered that thrombosis, or clotting of the blood in the vessels, takes place. In the thrombotic stage of inflammation the blood-flow is completely and permanently arrested, and the vitality of the tissue is seriously endangered. Clinical Aspects of Inflammation.—It must clearly be understood that inflammation is not to be looked upon as a disease in itself, but rather as an evidence of some infective process going on in the tissues in which it occurs, and of an