583 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. the formation of pus, such as acute suppurative osteomyelitis, but also certain affections which run a more chronic course and are not associated with suppuration. Diseases caused by the Staphylococcus Aureus.—As the majority of pyogenic diseases are due to infection with the staphylococcus aureus, these will be described first. Acute osteomyelitis is a suppurative inflammation beginning in the marrow and tending to spread to the periosteum. The disease is common in children, but is rare after the skeleton has attained maturity. Males are affected more often than females, in the proportion of three to one, probably because they are more exposed to injury and to violent exertion. Etiology.—Infection takes place in various ways. In some cases a possible source of infection through the skin exists in the form of eczema, acne pustules, small infected wounds, or septic conditions at the umbilicus. A mucous surface is perhaps a more frequent site of entrance of the cocci. Although proof of this is rarely obtainable, it is rendered probable by the frequency with which osteomyelitis is preceded by excoriations and fissures in the mouth and nose, by adenoids, small tonsillar abscesses, or by intestinal disturbances, such as diarrhoea. Staphylococci may enter the general circulation and be deposited in a living state in the marrow, without there being any immediate evidence of such infection, or only such minor disturbances of health as are indicated by slight indis[)osition or feverishness, and shooting “ rheumatic ” pains in the limbs. That they are capable of lying latent is evidenced by the fact that the disease may break out afresh after apparent cure. Conditions causing congestion of the marrow, and so dis- turbing its nutrition, may act as localising factors in the production of osteomyelitis—as, for example, a blow or other form of injury, some extra exertion such as a long walk, or exposure to cold, as in wading. The long tubular bones are affected in the following order of frequency : either end of the tibia ; the lower end of the femur; the upper end of the humerus; the ulna, the fibula, the radius; the metatarsals, metacarpals, or phalanges. The other bones of the skeleton are only affected in rare instances. Pathology.—As a rule, the disease commences and is most intense in the ossifying junction at one end of the bone, and primarily affects the marrow. It may commence at both ends simultaneously—bipolar osteomyelitis; or, commencing at one end, may spread to the other. The changes observed in the marrow are those of intense