SEQUENCE OF CHANGES IN INFLAMMATION. II that inflammation is a reparative process, as is held by some, cannot be entertained. Clinical experience and pathological facts prove the existence of inflammation in a wound to be incompatible with repair. Any healing which may take place in an inflamed wound goes on in spite of the inflammation and not as a result of it, and in most cases repair only begins when inflammation ceases. It has already been pointed out that the fundamental object of our modern methods of wound treatment is the prevention of inflammation, and that it is only when we succeed in attaining this object that we obtain that form of repair which we consider ideal. To admit that inflammation is essential to repair is to relinquish the antiseptic idea. Sequence of Changes in Inflammation.—For purposes of study the process of inflammation may be divided into four phases or stages—hypereemia, congestion, stasis, and thrombosis; but as these stages imperceptibly merge into one another, and as the inflammatory process may become arrested at any stage, it is to be understood that the subdivision .is to a lai’ge extent arbitrary. The characteristic tissue changes take place in and around the minute blood-vessels of the inflamed part. In the nm-mal capillary the red corpuscles flow in the centre of the stream, while the leucocytes move along more slowly toAvards the periphery of the vessel. The first or hypercemic stage of inflammation supervenes on the infection of a wound, and is characterised by an increased rapidity in the blood-flow, a dilatation of the capillarie.'! implicated, and an increased exudation of serous fluid into the surrounding connective tissue. The amount of blood passing through the inflamed area is greatly increased, and on account of this increased quantity of blood, the short time it remains in the part, and the diminished metabolic activity of the tissues, it does not lose its oxygen, and so remains of a bright red colour. The clinical features of this stage, therefore, are redness and oedematous swelling. As the serous exudation from the dilated vessels does not coagulate, the part remains soft and pits on pressure. In the stage of congestion the vessels still further dilate, but the rate of flow diminishes, and the white corpuscles accumulate against the capillary wall. In this stage the part becomes more swollen and of a darker hue. As the vitality of the tissue continues to diminish, the activity of the bacteria increases so that a greater quantity of toxins is produced, and further evidence of their action on the tissues becomes manifest. The accumulation of leucocytes in the