758 THE DEFOEMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. great toe into the valgus position, especially if a high heel is worn, as the toes are then driven forwards into the ajjex of the boot. An important factor in the production of hallux valgus is a faulty method of putting the foot to the ground in walking, which consists in bearing unduly on the inner side of the ball of the great toe, and in pointing the foot outwards. Once the great toe is abducted by the pressure of the boot, the deformity is increased by this method of walking. Examination of the joint in pronounced cases shows that the base of the first phalanx is displaced on to the outer aspect of the head of the first metatarsal, and the exposed head of the latter frequently shows changes like those met with in arthritis deformans, and is often the seat of periosteal overgrowth, some- times amounting to an exostosis (Fig. 302a). Arthritis de- formans is rarely the cause of hallux valgus, but may follow upon it. The distal end of the first metatarsal is displaced inwards, broadening the tread of the foot, and in severe cases its shaft is rotated on its long axis, so that its dorsal surface looks inwards; the great toe is then similarly rotated (Fig. 301). The flexor and extensor tendons and the sesamoid bones are displaced outwards. The ligaments and other soft parts on the inner side are elongated, while those on the outer side are contracted. In some cases, the patient’s chief complaint is of the deformity of the foot and the consequent disfigurement of the boot; in others, the complaint is of the pain and disability resulting from the sensitiveness of the joint and of the enlarged bursa over the head of the first metatarsal. The inflamed bursa, which some- times communicates with the joint, may even suppurate and discharge for long periods, and the infection may spread to the joint. The treatment varies with the severity of the deformity. In mild cases, a great deal can be done by wearing properly made boots, by wearing stockings with a separate compartment for the great toe, or, a pad of cotton wool between the great and second toes, by frequent manipulations and exercises of the toes and feet, and by instructing the patient how to put the foot to the ground in walking. In more pronounced cases, the pain and tenderness must first be got rid of by rest and soothing applications. At night, the attitude of the toe may be corrected by a moulded splint fixed to the inner aspect of the foot by strips of plaster; the toe is then bandaged to the distal end of the splint. If there is flat-foot, this must receive approi>riate treatment. In aggravated cases of long standing, the deformity can only