423 SEPAIIATION OF EPIPHYSES. relationship of tlie bony points, however, serves to indicate the nature of the lesion. Tire degree of deformity is often sliglit, because of tlie transverse direction of tlie lesion, the breadth of the separated surfaces, and the firinness of the periosteal attachment along the epiphysial line. In many cases a distinct, rounded, smooth, and regular ridge, caused Ijy the projection of the diaphysis, can be felt (Fig. 190). The peculiar “ muffled ” nature of the cre2ntus is one of the most character- istic signs. The older the patient, and the further ossification has progressed, the more does the crepitus resemble that ol fracture. Of the subsidiary signs, loss of power in the limb is one of the most constant; indeed, in young children it is sometimes the first, and may be the only sign which attracts attention. Fain and tenderness along the epiphysial line are valuable signs, particularly when the lesion is due to indirect or muscular violence and there is no bruising of soft parts. Localised swelling, accompanied by ecchyrnosis, is often marked; and the adjacent joint may be distended with fluid. As distinguishing this injury from a dislocation, it may be noted that in epiphysial sej)aration there is no snap felt when the deformity is reduced, the tendency to re-displacement is greater, and the amount of relief given by reduction less than in dislocation. The use of the lldntgen rays at once establishes the diagnosis. Prognosis and liesnlts.—In the great majority of cases union takes place satisfactorily by the formation of callus in the spongy tissue of the diaphysis and on the inner surface of the [)eriosteuni. In spite of the favourable nature of the prognosis in general, however, the friends of the patient should be warned that a completely satisfactory result cannot always be relied upon. Deformity, and impairment of movement at the adjacent joint may result from imperfect reduction, from exuberant callus, or from adhesions. Arrest of growth of the bone in length is a rare sequel, and when it occurs, it is due, not to premature union of the epiphysis with the shaft, but to diminished action at the os.sifying junction. When the growth of one of the bones of the leg or forearm is arrested after separation of its epi})hysis while the other bone continues to grow, the foot or hand is deviated towards the side of the shorter bone. Treatment.—The general principles which govern the treatment