228 INJURIES. A blank cartridge fired at close range may cause a severe wound, and, if black powder is used, leave a permanent bluish- black pigmentation of the skin. Effects of Small-bore Bullets on different Tissues. — When the projectile passes through the soft parts without striking a hone, it makes a small round a2)erture at the point of entrance, and an exit wound which is slightly if at all larger—indeed, they can scarcely be dis- tinguished from one another. So minute are these wounds that they may readily be overlooked, especially as they rarely bleed externally. The wounds are smaller than the bullet which produces them, and their size does not appear to bear any constant relation to the range at which the weapon isi lired. As a rule no clothing or other foreign body is carried into the wound, and healing by first intention is almost invari- able. The patient often feels as if he had been sharply struck with a hammer, and shock is comparatively slight, even when the abdomen is j^erforated. In short-range wounds there is usually considerable haemorrhage into the subcutaneous tissues. Shafts of Long Bones.—The effect of a small - bore bullet on the diaphysis of a long bone is influenced chiefly by the range at which the bullet was fired, that is, by its velocity at the moment of impact. In nearly all cases a comminuted fracture results. Lieutenant-Colonel Hickson 1 divides these fractures into three varieties : (1) the short-range type (up to 200 yards), in which the bullet i^asses through the medul- lary cavity at a high velocity, jiroducing an entrance wound which is small, circular, and equal in diameter to the bullet, and an exit wound which is larger and irregular with ragged edges. The bone is so highly comminuted that several inches of its length may be pulverised, and long fissures pass into the shaft beyond. Fragments of bone may be carried out through the skin, producing secondary apertures of exit, from which fragments of muscle or tendon may protrude. Such wounds almost always become infected. In (2)—the medium-range type (300 to 800 yards)—the exit wound is still larger than the entrance, but the soft parts are not lacerated to the same extent. The bone is highly comminuted, hut not forced out of the tissues, neither is it broken into so many or such small fragments. Short fissures radiate in a stellate form to the periphery of the bone. In (3)—the long-range type (over 900 yards)—the entrance and exit wounds tend to approximate in size. The soft parts are not injured to any marked extent. There is less tendency to complete separation of fragments, and these are few in number, although they may be large in size. The bullet often lodges in the bone or soft tissues. Suppuration does not often occur in this variety. Cancellous Ends of Long Bones and Joints.—In some cases the bullet perforates the cancellous tissue of the ejiiphysis of a long bone without causing comminution or involving the adjacent joint. As a rule, how- ever, it passes through the joint in its course, giving rise to an effusion of blood into the cavity, but without causing Assuring or comminution of the articular surfaces. In rare cases, and particularly in the knee-joint, the bullet traverses the .synovial cavity without impinging on the osseous elements. The ^ Official Report of the Surgical Cases noted in the South African War, 1890-1902.