POTT’S FRACTURE. 569 in fracture, the site of the break is the most tender spot. The X-rays are often useful in the diagnosis of doubtful cases. Treatment.—In those cases of fracture of the lower end of the fibula in which there is no marked displacement,—and they con- stitute a considerable proportion,—the limb should be massaged and laid on a pillow between sand-bags, or placed in a box si)lint for two or three days, until the swelling subsides. Some form of rigid apparatus, such as lateral porojdastic splints fixed in position with an elastic bandage, which will allow the patient to get about with crutches, is then applied. This is removed daily to permit of massage and movement being carried out — a point of great practical importance, because if massage and movement be neglected, not only does union take })lace more slowly, but the persistent stiffness of the ankle and oedema of the leg and foot which ensue, prolong the i>eriod of the patient’s incapacity and endanger the functional useful- ness of the limb. It is ill cases of this kind that the ambulatory method of treatment yields its best results. When, in the course of two or three days, the swelling has subsided, a plaster-of-Paris case (Fig. 210) is applied in such a way that when the patient walks the weight is transmitted from the tuberosities of the tibia through the plaster case to to correct eversion the ground, no weight being borne of foot, by the bones at the seat of fracture. The apparatus is applied as follows ;—A boracic lint bandage is applied to the limb as far as the knee, and protecting pads or rings of wool are placed over the tuberosities of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the malleoli. A jiad of wool about three inches thick is then placed under the sole of the foot and fixed in position by a plaster-of-Paris bandage, which is carried up the limb in the usual way. The case is made specially strong on the sole, around the ankle, up the sides of the leg, and at the bearing-point at the head of the tibia. After the plaster has thoroughly set, the patient is allowed to walk about with a stick, crutches being unnecessary. In the course of three weeks the