ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. 157 as tlie lip, finger, or nipple. When the disea.se is thus acquired V)y innocent tran.sfer, it is known as syjihilii^ insontium. Stages or Periods of Syphilis.—Following the teaching of Ricord, it is customary to subdivide the life-history of syphilis into three periods or stages, referred to, for convenience, as primary, secondary, and tertiary. This subdivision is to some extent arbitrary and artificial, as the different stages overlap one another, and the lesions of one stage merge insensibly into those of another. Wide variations are met with in the manifestations of the secondary stage, and histologically there is no valid dis- tinction to be drawn between secondary and tertiai’y lesions. The embraces the interval which elapses between the initial infection and the first constitutional mani- festations,—roughly from four to eight week.s,—and includes the period of incubation, the development of the primary sore, and the enlargement of the nearest lymphatic glands. The secondary 2)eriod varies in duration from one to two years, during Avhich time the patient is liable to suffer from manifestations which are for the most i)art su[ierficial in character, affecting the skin and its appendage.s, the mucous membranes, and the lymphatic glands. The tertiary period has no time-limit except that it follows upon the secondary, so that during the remainder of his life the patient is liable to suffer from manifestations which may affect the deeper tissues and internal organs as well as the skin and mucous membranes. Primary Syphilis.—2he period of incuhaiion represents the interval which elapses between the occurrence of infection and the appearance of the primary sore at the site of inoculation. Its limits may be stated as varying from two to six weeks, with an average of from twenty-one to twenty-eight days. While the affection is incubating, there is nothing to show that the patient has contracted any disease. The Primary Lesion.—The incubation period having elapsed, there appears at the site of inoculation a circumscribed area of infiltration which represents the reaction of the tissues to the entrance of the syphilitic virus. The first appearance is that of an indurated sharply defined pai)ule, rarely larger than a split pea. Its surface is at first smooth and shiny, but as necrosis of the tissue elements takes place in the centre, it becomes concave, and in many cases the epithelium is shed and an ulcer is formed. Such an ulcer has an elevated border, sharply cut edges, an indurated base, and exudes a scanty serous discharge; its surface is at first occupied Iry yellow necrosed tissue, but iji