BRODIE’S ABSCESS. 595 excruciating. In the early stages there are remissions of days or weeks, during which the symptoms entirely disappear, but as the abscess increases these become shorter and shorter until the patient is hardly ever free from pain. Localised tenderness can almost always be elicited by percussion or by pressing the bone between the fingers and thumb. The pain induced by the traction of muscles attached to the affected bone, or by the strain of the weight of the body, may interfere with the function of the limb, and in the lower extremity cause a limp in walking. Disability may be due to involvement of the adjacent joint, in which there may be an intermittent hydrops which comes and goes coincidently with exacerbations of pain ; or the abscess may perforate into the joint and set up an acute arthritis. The differential diagnosis of Brodie’s abscess, from other affections met with at the ends of long bones, and particularly from tuberculosis, syphilis, and new growths, is made by a con.sideratiou of the previous history of the ])atient, especially with reference to an antecedent attack of osteomyelitis and of the clinical evidence. Recourse, however, .should always be had to an examination with the X-rays. In a considerable number of cases there is an ill-defined light area in the centre of a dark shadow at the level of the lesion; but if the zone of sclerosis around the abscess is well marked this light area is wanting and a uniform dark shadow is cast, which of itself is usually sufficient to exclude a central gumma or new growth. When the adjacent joint is implicated, the .surgeon may be misled by the patient referring his symptoms to the joint rather than to the bone. Treatment.—If an abscess is suspected, there should be no hesitation in exjdoring the interior of the bone. It is exposed by a suitable incision, and the periosteum reflected, the bone opened up by a trephine or chisel, and the presence of an abscess may be at once indicated by the escape of pus. If, owing to the small size of the ab.scess or the density of the bone surrounding it, the pus is not reached by this procedure the bone should be drilled in different directions. The pus and any dead bone having been cleared out, the cavity is scraped and disinfected, and packed with iodoform worsted. Osteomyelitis which is Chronic from the Outset.—That there is a chronic form of pyogenic osteomyelitis has only been recognised within recent years. Formerly it was confused with syphilis and tubercle, and without bacteriological examination it is difficult to differentiate between these affections. Like rela^Jsing osteomyelitis, it may assume the form of hyperostosis