82 ULCEEATION AND ULCERS. septa ” (Cathcart) (Fig. 20). When the whole thickness of the soft tissues is destroyed by the ulcerative process, the area of bone which comes to form the base of the ulcer projects as a flat, porous node. In course of time the ulcer eats its way into the bone, and produces depressions or erosions on its surface. These changes have often been mistaken for disease originating in the bone. The irritable condition is met with in ulcers which occur, as a rule, just above the external malleolus in women of neurotic temperament. They are small in size and have prominent granulations, and by the aid of a probe points of excessive tenderness may be discovered. These, Hilton believed, corre- spond to exposed nerve filaments. Ulcers ivhich are spreading may be met with in one of several conditions. The Inflamed Condition.—Any ulcer may become acutely inflamed from the access of fresh organisms, aided by mechanical irritation from trauma, ill-fitting splints or bandages, or want of rest, or from chemical irritants such as strong antiseptics. The best clinical example of an inflamed ulcer is the venereal soft sore. The base of the ulcer becomes red and angry-looking, the granulations disappear, and a copious discharge of thin, yellow 2)us, mixed Avith blood, escapes. Sloughs of granulation tissue or of connective tissue may form. The edges become red, ragged, and everted, and the ulcer increases in size by spreading into the inflamed and cedematous surrounding tissues. Such ulcers are frequently multiple. Pain is a constant symptom, and is often severe, and there is usually some constitutional disturbance. The phagedcEnic condition is the result of an ulcer being infected with sjrecially virulent bacteria. It often occurs in syphilitic ulcers, and leads to a very rapid and destructive infiltration of the surrounding tissues, with the formation of sloughs and much pus. It is also met with in the throat in some cases of scarlet fever, and may give rise to fatal haemor- rhage by ulcerating into large blood-vessels. All the signs of inflammation, both local and constitutional, are irresent to a marked degree. Treatment of Ulcers.—The prompt and patient treatment of ulcers is a matter of great jAractical importance. An ulcer is not only an immediate cause of suffering to the patient, crippling and incapacitating him for his work, but is a distinct and constant menace to his health; the jjrolonged discharge reduces his strength ; the open sore is a possible source of infection by the