BED-SOKES. 109 removal under chloroform of all the sloughy tissue, with the surrounding zone in which the organisms are active. This is most efficiently accomplished by the knife or scissors, cutting until the tissue bleeds freely, after which the raw surface is painted with undiluted carbolic acid and dressed with iodoform gauze. It is often necessary to remove large pieces of bone when the necrotic process has implicated the jaws. The mouth must be constantly sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen, and washed out with a disinfectant and deodorant lotion, such as Condy’s fluid. The patient’s general condition calls for free stimulation. The deformity resulting from these necessarily heroic measures is often not so great as might be expected, and can be further diminished by plastic operations which should be undertaken before cicatricial contraction has taken place. Fhagedcena, Ho&pital Gangrene, and Diphtheritic Gangrene. —Fortunately little need be said regarding these conditions. They are chiefly of historical interest as having constituted at one time the scourge of surgical wards, and as having been the first disea.ses to disappear after the introduction of antiseptic surgery. A few days after the infliction of a wound, pain and swelling appeared. On the surface of the wound, which became dry and pale, a false membrane formed, and under this the tissues ulcerated and became gangrenous with great rapidity. The false membrane became thicker and softer as the process progressed; the skin, cellular tissue, and muscles rapidly sloughed; and not infrequently large vessels were opened into, and death resulted from hiemor- rhage. High fever, diarrhoea, sleeplessness, and delirium pre- ceded the almost invariably fatal issue. Amputation was the only treatment which offered any prospect of recovery. Bed-Sores. Bed-sores are most frequently met with in old and debilitated patients, or in those whose tissues are devitalised by acute fevers or by such chronic diseases as lead to stagnation of blood in the peripheral veins. Any interference with the nerve-supply of the skin, whether from injury or disease of the central nervous system or of the peripheral nerves, strongly predisposes to the formation of bed-sores. Prolonged and excessive pressure over a bony prominence, especially if the parts be moist with skin secretions, urine, or wound discharges, determines the