FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 519 classification is wanting in accuracy. It is more correct to divide these tractures into (1) those occurring through the narrow -part of the neck, whicli are nearly always purely intra- capsular ; and (2) those occurring through the htse of the neck, in which the line of fracture lies inside the cap.sule in front, but outside of it behind. It is of con.siderable clinical importance to distinguish between fractures in these two positions. The first group occurs almost exclusively in old persons as a result of slight forms of indirect violence, and it is liable, on account of the feeble vascular supply to the upper fragment, to be followed by absorption of the neck, rvliich delays or may even ejitirely prevent union (Figs. 169 and 172). The second group usually occurs in robusd adults, and results from severe forms of violence applied directly to the tro- chanter. In this group firm osseous union u.sually takes place. Fracture of the Narrow Part of the Neck or Intra- capsular Fracture. —It was formerly believed that this fracture . was ex- ceedingly rare in children, but by the use of the X-rays and from the study of the condition known as coxa vara, it has been shown that it occurs with considerable frequency. In children, the fracture is of the greenstick variety, and the patient is often able to use the limb within a few days of the injury. Fracture of the narrow part of the neck, however, is most frequently met with in elderly persons, especially in women, and is usually prodirced by comparatively slight forms of indirect violence—such, for example, as result from the foot catching on the edge of a carpet, a stumble in walking, or missing a step in going down stairs. The line of fracture, which is usually transverse but may be oblique or irregular, lies, as a rule, entirely within the capsule and the posterior part of the neck is more comminuted than the anterior. The outer fragment, which includes the base of the neck, the trochanters, and the shaft, is usually displaced upward and Fig. 169.—Fracture through Narrow Part of Neck of Femur. On surface view and on section. The neck of the bone has undergone absorption.