740 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. tion (Fig. 290). It may be met with in several members of one family, and is sometimes associated with other congenital deformities such as hare-lip or spina bifida. It is twice as common in boys as in girls, and is more frequently bilateral than unilateral. Its etiology is still obscure, and various hypotheses have been put forward to account for it, but no one is convincing. It may be pointed out, however, that the foetal foot is very easily moulded into abnormal attitudes by external jjressure, such as might be exercised by the wall of the uterus when the liquor amnii is deficient. In a limited number of cases there are indications of such pressure over the bony pro- minences of the foot, in the shape of circumscribed scar-like areas in which the skin is atrophied. Pathological Anatomy.—In well-marked cases the long axis Fig. 290.—Congenital Talipes Equino-varus tarsal, the Cuboid, and The individual tarsal bones, especially the astragalus and os calcis, are altered in shape as well as in their relations to one another and to the tibio-fibular socket. The scaphoid and cuboid are rotated inwards around the anterior ends of the astragalus and os calcis respectively, and the tubercle of the scaphoid comes to lie very close to the internal malleolus. The lower third of the tibia is twisted inwards on its long axis. The changes in the soft parts follow the general law that tissues which are relaxed become shortened, while those which are put on the stretch are lengthened. All the tissues on the inner, concave, side of the foot are shortened, the structures most affected being the internal lateral and the posterior ligaments of the ankle, and the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. There is also shortening of the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis, of the foot presents a concavity towards the inner side, the maxi- mum point of the curve being opposite the mid-tarsal joint. When the patient at- tempts to stand, only the outer border of the foot touches the ground and the weight is borne on the base of the fifth meta- in an Infant. the greater process of the os calcis.