662 DISEASES OF JOINTS. sides, is that most frequently affected. The other joints of the foot, and those of the fingers, wrist, ankle, and knee, may also be attacked; The disease is met with chiefly in men after middle life. The clinical features are very characteristic. There is a sudden onset, usually during the early hours of the morning, of excruciating pain; the joint becomes tensely swollen, red, and glistening, with engorgement of the veins and some fever. In the course of a week or ten days there is a gradual return to the normal. Such attacks recur once a year or oftener, becoming less acute but lasting longer, and the local phenomena tend to persist, the joint remaining permanently swollen and stiff. Masses of chalk form in and around the joint, and those in the toms are acute; later—hot-air baths, massage, and exercises are indicated. It is remarkable how completely even the most deformed joints may recover their functions. The dietetic and medicinal treatment of gout is to be found in works on medicine. Chronic Rheumatism.—The claims of this disease to be called rheumatic rest upon the following facts :—That it often follows upon acute articular rheumatism ; that it may show exacerbations or relapses which are attended with pyrexia and are relieved by salicylates; that it is met with in patients who present a family history of acute rheumatism or of inflammation of serous mem- branes ; and that there may be a history of chorea, erythema nodosum, rheumatic nodules, or other evidences of rheumatism. The primary changes in the affected joints involve almost exclusively the synovial membrane and the ligaments; as well as the surrounding tendon sheaths and bursas. They consist in subcutaneous tissue may break through the skin, forming indolent ulcers with exposure of the chalky masses—to23hi—and until these are extruded or re- moved the ulcers do not heal (Fig. 246). The hands or feet may become seriously crqspled, especially when the tendon sheaths and bursae also are affected. Fig. 246.—Gouty Arthritis of Joints of Fingers with chalk stones ; note the asymmetry of the deformity. The local treatment con- sists in emjiloying soothing apjilications while the symp-