176 SYPHILIS. the formation of ulcers which may prove locally destructive, and, in such situations as the larynx, even dangerous to life. In the tongue the tertiary ulcer may prove the starting-point of cancer ; and in the larynx or rectum the healingof the ulcer maybe associated with serious cicatricial stenosis or stricture of the passage affected. Tertiary lesions of the hones and joints, of the muscles, and of the internal organs will be described under these heads. The part played by syphilis in the production of atheroma and of aneurysm will be referred to along with diseases of blood-vessels. Diagnosis.—From the enormous diversity in the nature and seat of the lesions met with in tertiary syphilis, it is impossible to lay down any general rules for diagnosis, but the student may be cautioned, on the one hand, against relying upon the absence of a history of antecedent syphilis, and, on the other, of indulging in the habit of diagnosing lesions as syphilitic simply because their origin is obscure. Treatment.—The most valuable drugs for the treatment of the manifestations of the tertiary period are the iodides of sodium and potassium. While iodides are most effective in promoting the absorption of recent gummata and gummatous in- filtrations, they do not remedy the destructive changes brought about by gummata. On account of their depressing effects, they are frequently prescribed along with carbonate of ammonium. The dose is usually a matter of experiment in each individual case; five grains three times a day may suffice, or it may be. necessary to increase each dose to twenty or twenty-five grains. The symptoms of iodism which may follow from the smaller doses usually disappear on giving a larger amount of the drug. It should be taken after meals, with abundant water or other fluid, especially if given in tablet form. It is advisable to continue the iodides for from one to three months after the lesions for which they are given have cleared up. If the potassium salt is not tolerated, it may be replaced by the ammonium or sodium iodide. A combination of the perchloride of mercury with iodides usually yields more lasting results than the iodides alone. The general health should receive the same careful attention as during the secondary period; much assistance is often obtained from tonics such as arsenic, iron, quinine, and strychnine, from cod-liver oil, and from change of air either by land or sea. The Local Treatment.—The absorption of a subcutaneous gumma is hastened by the application of a fly-blister. The incision of a gumma is scarcely ever called for. When a gumma has broken on the surface and left an ulcer, this is treated on