617 OSTEOMALACIA it may occur during a first pregnancy, it is oftener met with in multiparous women. It is usually confined to the pelvis and lumbar vertebrm, but in extreme cases may involve the entire skeleton. The essential feature is the absorption of lime salts from the affected bones; the bone matrix, thus decalcified, disappears in its turn, so that the bones may be bent by the weight of the body or by the traction of muscles. After death they are so soft that they may be cut with a knife or squeezed like a sponge. In the progressive stage of the disease the marrow becomes very vascular, loses its fat, and is converted into a gelatinous tissue variously coloured with blood pigment derived from hemorrhages into the marrow, which sometimes result in the formation of cysts tilled with brown or yellow fluid. In extreme cases, the shafts of the long bones come to resemble membranous tubes Avhich may be bent or twisted in any direction. The cause of the disease is unknown; it has been suggested that it is the result of an affection of the central nervous system, probably beginning in the nerve cells of the anterior cornua of the cord. Clinically, the patient conqflains of shooting pains in the lower part of the back, weakness of the lower limbs, and of inability to sit up. The bones may be tender on pressure, and the knee jerks are usually increased. When the spinal column is affected the vertebrre become compressed, and the patient may lose a foot or more in height within a few weeks. There may be a peculiar waddling gait from curving of the neck of the femur on both sides, and inability to flex the thigh and lift the foot from the ground. If recovery ensues, new bone replaces that which has been lost, the bones regain their rigidity, but the existing deformities i^ersist. The diagnosis is only difficult in the early stage of mild cases, in which the marked weakness of the lower extremities and exaggeration of the knee jerks may suggest a resemblance to certain diseases of the spinal cord. The bones do not give the usual dark shadow when examined with the Edntgen rays. Treatment.—Measures directed towards improving'the general health should be employed. The administration of phosphorus dissolved in coddiver oil is generally recommended. Eemoval of the ovaries, as suggested by Fehling in 1886, has been followed by the relief of symptoms and arrest of the progress of the disease. For a description of the changes in the pelvis and their relation to pregnancy and parturition the student is referred to text-books on midwifery.