248 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJUEIES. becomes small, rapid, and irregular, delirium followed by coma ensues, and the condition is usually rapidly fatal. Fat is usually to be detected in the urine, even in mild cases. The treatment consists in tiding the patient over the acute stage of his illness, until the fat is eliminated from the blood- vessels. Traumatic Asphyxia or Traumatic Cyanosis.—This term has been applied to a condition which results when the thorax is so forcibly compressed that respiration is mechanically arrested for several minutes. It has occurred from the patient being crushed in a struggling crowd, or under a fall of masonry, and in machinery accidents. When the patient is released, the face and the neck as far as the level of the clavicles present an intense discoloration, varying from deep purple to blue-black. The affected area is very sharply defined, and on close inspection the appearance is found to be due to the presence of countless minute reddish-blue or black spots, with small areas or streaks of normal skin between them. The punctate nature of the discoloration is best recognised towards the periphery of the affected area—at the junction of the brow with the hairy scalp, and where the dark patch meets the normal skin of the chest (Beach and Cobb). Pressure over the skin does not cause the colour to disappear as in ordinary cyanosis. It has been shown by Wright, of Boston, that the discoloration is due to stasis from mechanical over- distension of the veins and capillaries, and that there is no actual extravasation into the tissues outside the blood-vessels. The sharply defined distribution of the discoloration is attributed to the absence of functionating valves in the veins of the head and neck, so that when the increased intra-thoracic pressure is transmitted to these veins they become engorged. Under the conjunctivse there are gross extravasations of bright red blood. The discoloration begins to fade within a few hours, and after the second or third day it rapidly disappears without showing any of the chromatic changes which characterise the disap- pearance of a bruise. The sub-conjunctival ecchymosis, however, persists for several weeks and disappears like other gross extravasations. Apart from combating the shock, or dealing with concomitant injuries, no treatment is called for.