TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 647 Changes in the Synovial Membrane. — In the majority of cases, the first evidence of disease in the joint is a diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, due chiefly to the forma- tion of granulation tissue, or of young connective tissue, in its substance. This new tissue may be described as being arranged in two layers — the outer layer composed of more fully formed connective or fibrous tissue, while the inner con- sists of embryonic tissue, usually permeated with mdiary and other tubercles. On opening the joint these tubercles may be seen on the free surface of the synovial membrane, or the surface may be covered with a thin layer of fibrinous or caseous tissue, and a similar material may occupy the cavity of the joint. Where there is greater resistance on the part of the tissues, there is active formation of young connective tissue which circumscribes or encapsulates the tubercles, so that they remain embedded in the substance of the synovial membrane, and are only seen on cutting into it. The new tissue formed in relation to the synovial membrane tends to be projected into the cavity of the joint, filling up its l)Ouches and recesses, and spreading over the sui’face of the articular cartilages like ivy growing over a wall (Eig. 269). Wherever the synovial tls-sue covers the cartilage it becomes adherent to and fused with it, as covered cartilage always under- goes a retrograde metaplasia into ordinary connective tissue. The morbid process may be arrested at this stage, and may cure with filjrous adhesions between the opposing articnlar surfaces, or it may progress, in which case further changes occur, resulting in destruction of the articular cartilages and exposure of the subjacent bone. In rare instances the synovial membrane may i)resent nodular masses or lumps, resembling the tuberculous tumours met with in the brain. They project into the cavity of the joint, are often pedunculated, and may give rise to the same .symptoms as a loose body. The fringes of the synovial membrane may also undergo a remarkable development, like that observed in arthritis deformans. Both these types are most frec^uently met with in the knee-joint. The Contents of Tuberculous Joints.—In a large proportion of cases of synovial tulierculosis the joint cavity is entirely filled up by the diffuse thickening of the synovial membrane, and there is no Huid in the joint. In a small number there is an abundant serous exudate, and the condition is known clinically as tuberculous h ydrops. There may be a considerable formation of fibrin within the joint, covering the free surface of the