769 DUPUYTFxEN’S CONTRACTION. do no manual work, and the fact that it is very often bilateral, indicate that the constitutional factor is the most important in its causation. In the initial stage there is a well-marked induration in the palm opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the skin over it is puckered and closely adherent to the underlying fascia. After a variable interval, the finger is gradually and progressively Hexed at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The ring finger is usually the first to be affected, less often the fifth, although both are commonly involved. It is rarest of all in the index. The flexion may be confined to the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, or the middle and distal phal- anges may also be flexed; and as the deformity becomes more pronounced, the nail of the affected finger may come into contact with the skin of the palm. Dissections show that the flexion of the finger is the result of a chronic inter.stitial overgrowth and subsequent contraction of the i)almar fascia and of its jirolongations on to the sides of the fingers. The digital processes of the fascia are thickened and shortened and come to stand out like the string of a bow. The adipo.se tissue in the skin of the palm disappears, and the skin and fascia thus brought into contact become fused with one another. The tendons and their sheaths are not im- plicated ; they are found lying deeply in the concavity of the curve of the flexed digit. The condition is easily diagnosed from the con- genital contraction by the fact that in the latter the proximal phalanx is extended or hyper-extended. Treatment.—When seen in the initial stage, conti'action may be prevented by passive movements of the finger and by massage of the indurated fascia. When flexion has already occurred, it is most easily corrected by Adam’s operation, which consists in multiple subcutaneous division of the contracted fascia in the palm and of its prolongations on to the finger. In addition to dividing the fascia, the tenotomy knife .should be used also to separate the skin from the fascia. The finger is then forcibly VOL, I—49 Fig. 311.—Splint used after Operation for Dupuytren’s Contraction.