THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 202 amount till it fills the sac. On the other hand, a portion of clot in the sac may be separated and become impacted as an embolus in the artery beyond, leading to thrombosis which first occludes the artery and then extends into the sac. The progress of natural cure is indicated clinically by the aneurysm becoming smaller, firmer, less expansile, and less compressible. The murmur and thrill are also diminished, and the pressure effects of the aneurysm become less marked. When the cure is complete the pulsation is lost, and there remains a firm swelling attached to the vessel {consolidated aneurysm). While these changes are taking jalace the collateral arteries become enlarged, and an anastomotic circulation is established. An aneurysm may prove fatal by exerting pressure on important structures adjacent to it, by causing syncope, by rupture, or from the occurrence of suppuration. Pressure symptoms are usually most serious from aneurysms situated in the neck, thorax, or skull. Sudden fatal syncope is not in- frequent in cases of aortic and other large aneurysms. Rupture may take place through the skin, on a mucous or serous surface, or into the cellular tissue. The first hsemorrhage is often comparatively slight and stoj)s naturally, but it soon recurs, and is so profuse, especially when the blood escajjes externally or into a large cavity, that it rapidly proves fatal. When the bleeding takes place into the cellular tissue the aneurysm is said to become difu,sed, and the extravasated blood may spread widely through the tissues, exerting great pressure on the surrounding structures. The clinical features associated with rupture of an aneurysm are sudden and severe pain in the part, while the j^atient becomes pale, cold, and faint. If a comparatively small escape of blood takes place into the tissues, the sudden alteration in the size, shape, and tension of the aneurysm, together with a loss of pulsation, may be the only local signs. When the bleeding is profuse, however, the parts beyond the aneurysm become greatly swollen, livid, and cold, and the pulses as a rule are completely lost. At the same time the characteristic signs of aneurysm disappear. The arrest of the blood-supply may result in gangrene. Sometimes the pressure of the extra- vasated blood causes the skin to give way and fatal haemorrhage results. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for a ruptured artery (p. 251), the main object being to avert gangrene of the limb. Should this ensue amputation is called for.