TUMOURS OF BONE. 621 There i.s no tendency to jms formation or to disintegration of the joints. Skiagrams of the hands and feet show a deposit of new bone along the shafts of the phalanges and other bones. Tumours of Bone. New growths which originate in the skeleton are spoken of as 'primary tumours, while those which invade the bones, either by metastasis from other parts of the body or by direct spread from adjacent tissues, are known as secondary. They may grow from the periosteum, the marrow, or, in the case of young bones, from the epiphysial cartilage. Primary tumours are always of the connective-tissue type, and are usually solitary, although certain forms, .such as chondroma, osteoma, myeloma, and sarcoma are sometimes multiple from the outset. Periosteal tumours are in the first instance msually situated on one side of the bone, but they may come to .surround it completely. They are bounded externally by the fibrous layer of the periosteum, which, however, i.s infiltrated and perforated by malignant tumours. Central or medullary tumours usually lead to absorption of the osseous tissue in immediate relation to them, while new bone is laid down externally. The bone as a whole may thus be greatly increased in girth, and is aj)parently “ expanded ” by the growth in its interior. Whether or not a central tumour invades the investing soft parts depends on the rapidity of its growth, and on the activity of the periosteum in forming new bone. It is frequently observed that tumours of bone follow upon injury. The cau.sal connection between the injury and the development of the tumour is not established; it may be that the trauma merely hastens the growth of an already existing tumour, or that it excites growth in embryonic residues result- ing from some irregularity in development. Primary Tumours—Osteoma.—This variety of tumour is called an erostosis when it projects from the surface of a bone. When derived directly from the tissues of the’ periosteum, for example, in the skull, it is described as a membranous exostosis —and it is usually dense and compact like ivory, hence the term ivory exostosis. When derived from hyaline cartilage—for example, at the ends of the long bones—it is known as a cartilaginous exostosis. This is invested with a cap of cartilage from which it continues to grow until the skeleton attains