461 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. to be dislocated from causes altogether insufficient to produce displacement under ordinary circumstances. This condition is usually met with in young women, and, in some cases at least, appears to be due to too early and too free movement of the joint after an ordinary dislocation, so that the capsule is stretched and remains lax. The facility and frequency with which dislocation recurs render the limb comparatively useless, and may seriously incapacitate the patient. The treatment consists in preventing the patient making the particular movements which tend to produce the dislocation. These are chiefly movements of hyper-abduction and overhead movements, such as are made, for example, in swimming or in arranging the hair. We have found an apparatus consisting of a belt applied round the thorax, and fixed to another round the upper arm by a band which passes above the axillary fold of the dress, useful in restraining these movements. If necessary, massage, electricity, and movements against resistance are employed to strengthen the weak muscles. If, after a prolonged trial, these measures fail, it may be advisable to tighten up the lax capsule by drawing it into folds by a series of catgut sutures, after which the joint is kept at rest for three or four weeks. The condition is also met with in epileptics; and it is generally found that the head of the bone is deficient, as a result either of fracture or disease; that the muscles which naturally support the joint are atrophied or torn; and that the capsule is unduly lax. Sprains of the shoulder-joint are comparatively rare be- cause of the wide range of movement of which it is capable. The whole region becomes swollen and tender to 2)ressure, the 2)oint of maximum tenderness being over the front of the joint, just below the acromion jjrocess; jjain is elicited also when the ligaments or tendons are put upon the stretch. Contusions of the region of the shoulder, on the other hand, are exceedingly common. In most cases it is merely the deltoid muscle and the subcutaneous tissue over it which are bruised, but sometimes a hsematoma forms either in the muscle or in the sub-deltoid bursa. There is pain on moving the limb, and the patient may be unable to abduct the arm at the shoulder-joint. The symptoms usually jjass off completely in two or three weeks, under treatment by massage and movement. In other cases the circumflex nerve also is bruised, and these injuries are liable to be followed by jjrolonged pain, loss of abduction, and stiffness in the upper arm. The deltoid frequently undergoes considerable atroj)hy, and there is severe neuralgic pain