ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. 591 In the pelvis, a sequestrum has been known to make its way into the bladder, and give rise to the symptoms of stone. The deformities resulting from acute osteomyelitis are more marked the earlier in life the disease occurs. Shortening is not uncommon from interference with growth at the ossifying junction. Exaggerated growth in the length of a bone is rare, and has been observed chiefly in the bones of the leg. Where there are two parallel bones—as in the leg, for example—the growth of the diseased bone may be impaired, and the other continuing its normal growth becomes disproportionately long. Le.ss frequently the growth of the diseased bone is exaggerated, and it becomes the longer of the two. In either case, the longer bone becomes curved. An obliquity of the bone may result when one half of the epiphysial cartilage is destroyed, and the other half continues to form bone, and this gives rise to such de- formities as knock-knee and clulvhand. Deformity may also result from vicious union of a patho- logical fracture, permanent displacement of an epiphysis, con- tracture, ankylosis, or dislocation of the adjacent joint. The Recognition and Removal of Set/uestra.—So long as dead bone remains in position, there will be suppirration from the granulations lining the cavity in which it lies, and a discharge of pus from the sinuses. The dead bone may be evident to the eye, Irat it is usually only recognised on passing a probe down a sinus. It is not easy from such examination to determine the size, character, or number of the sequestra, or to be certain that they are loose, but these points may be cleared up by examination with the X-rays. The traditional practice is to wait until the dead bone is entirely separated before undertaking any operation for its removal, for fear, on the one hand, of leaving })ortions behind which may afterwards die, or, on the other, of removing more bone than is absolutely necessary. In our opinion this practice need no longer be rigidly adhered to, as by operating at an earlier stage healing is greatly hastened. If it is decided to wait for separation of the dead bone, drainage should be improved and the septic element combated. The operation for the removal of the dead bone (seques- trectomy) consists in opening up the periosteum and the new case to a degree sufficient to allow of the removal of all the dead bone, including the most minute sequestra, and infected granu- lation tissue. The limb having been rendered bloodless, existing sinuses are enlarged, but if these are inconveniently situated—