598 DISEASES OF BONE. number of specimens in museums ; those in the collection of the University of Edinburgh were derived chiefly from the wars in the Peninsula. The most common is an osteomyelitis which commences in the marrow exposed in the wound, and this presents the changes which characterise ordinary suppurative inflammation. In the case of amputation stumps, fungating granulations may protrude from the sawn end of the bone, and if necrosis takes place, the sequestrum is annular, affecting the cross section of the bone at the saw- line ; or tubular, extending up the shaft, ‘and tapering off above. The periosteum is more easily detached, is thicker than normal, and is usually actively engaged in forming new bone. In the macerated specimen, the new bone presents a characteristic coral-like appearance, and may be perforated by cloacae (Figs. 221, 222). Like other septic infections, it may terminate in pyaemia, as a result of septic phlebitis in the marrow. The clinical features of osteo- myelitis in an amputation stump are those of ordinary pyogenic infection ; the bone lesion does not impart to them any special characters, and it may not even be recognised unless the bone affected is exposed to view. Healing does not take place until the sequestrum is thrown off or removed. In compound fractures, if a fragment dies and forms a sequestrum, it is apt to be walled in by new bone, and the sinuses which result may continue to discharge until the sequestrum is removed. Even after healing has taken place, relapse is liable to occur, especially in gun-shot injuries. Months or years after- wards, either without apparent cause or after some extra strain of the limb or exposure to cold and wet, the bone may become painful and tender. The symptoms may subside under rest and elevation of the limb and the application of an antiseptic compress, or an abscess may form and burst with comparatively little suffering. The contents may be clear yellow serum or a watery pus; sometimes a small spicule of bone may be discharged. i Fig. 222. ■— Sequestrum of Femur, due to osteomyelitis following amputation.