632 DISEASES OF BONE. In slowly growing forms, there may be considerable formation of imperfectly organised bone, often deficient in lime salts ; this condition may be widely diffused throughout the skeleton, and as it is associated with softening and bending of the bones it is known as cancerous osteomalacia. Secondary cancer of bone may not reveal itself clinically at all, or it may cause pains in the affected bones, or may suddenly attract notice by the occurrence of pathological fracture—as, for example, in the shaft of the femur or humerus. In the vertebrae, it is attended with a painful form of paraplegia which may involve the lower, or all four extremities. On the other hand, the disease may show itself clinically as a tumour of bone, which may be of consider- able size, and may be mistaken for a primary sarcoma, unless the existence of the original cancer is discovered. The cancers most liable to give rise to metastasis in bone are those of the breast, liver, uterus, prostate, and intestine. Secondary tumours derived from the thyroid gland require special mention, because they are peculiar in that neither the primary growth in the thyroid nor the secondary growths in the bones are necessarily malignant. They are therefore amenable to operative treatment. Secondary sarcomata, whether derived from primary growths in the bones or in the soft parts, are very much rarer than secondary cancers. They are of little clinical importance, as, with rare exceptions, they are quite beyond the range of operative treatment. Cancer of Bone resulting from Direct Extension from adjacent Soft Farts.—In this group the bone is involved by the spread of the cancer in the same way as any other tissue. There are two clinical types. The first is met with in relation to epitheliomata of mucous surfaces—for example, the palate, gums, antrum, frontal sinus, auditory meatus, or middle ear. They will be described under these special regions. The second is met with in relation to epithelioma occurring in a sinus, the sequel of suppurative osteomyelitis or compound fracture. The patient has usually had a discharging sinus for a great number of years. The epithelioma originates at the skin orifice of the sinus, and spreads down to the bone and into its interior. Inside the bone the progress of the cancer is resisted by sclerosis and obliteration of the medullary canal, but although its progress is slow, the infiltra- tion of the bone is often mdte extensive than would appear externally. It is recognised clinically by the characteristic epitheliomatous growth in the sinus and its vicinity, and by the offensive nature of the discharge. A similar e2Jitheli- oma may arise in connection with a chronic ulcer of the