INJUEIES. 238 indications for the rational treatment of burns, and should be abandoned. Skin-grafting is of great value in hastening healing after extensive burns, and in preventing cicatricial contraction. The deformities which are so liable to develop from contraction of the cicatrices resulting from burns are treated on the general principles governing plastic operations. In the region of the face (Fig. 56), neck, and flexures of joints (Fig. 55), where they are most marked, the contracted bands may be divided and the parts stretched, the raw surface left being covered by Thiersch grafts or by flaps of skin raised from adjacent surfaces and glided or twisted into position. Injuries produced by Electricity. Lesions of the nature of burns result from the action of electricity on the tissues of the body. They differ sufficiently from ordinary burns to merit separate description, and may be considered under the headings of (1) injuries produced by exposure to the Eontgen rays, (2) electrical burns, and (3) lightning-stroke. Injuries produced by Exposure to the Eontgen Rays.— It would appear that these injuries only follow exposure to electric discharges emanating from a Crooke’s tube ; that the patient experiences no sensation of electric shock or of heat; and that prolonged or repeated exposure is usually necessary to their production. Owing to the systematic use of shields, the shorter exposures, and the improved technique generally, these injuries are now comparatively rare. Two distinct varieties of burn are recognised—an erythe- matous form, resembling a superficial burn; and an ulcerative and sloughing form, corresponding to a burn of the third or fourth degree. The erythematous form is usually met with on the back of the hands and fingers of those who work with the Eontgen apparatus, but occasionally occurs in patients who have been subjected to the rays for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes. The first symptom is the a2)pearance of a red patch on the skin, attended with itching, but devoid of pain. This seldom apjiears sooner than two or three weeks after the exposure. The skin becomes dry, tends to crack, and finally desquamates. The hairs are lost and the nails become brittle. The sense of touch is sometimes imjiaired. The condition is very persistent, and usually lasts for several months. It disappears spontaneously.