TUMOURS. 200 be so vascular as to pulsate like an aneurysm and yield a blowing murmur on auscultation. The glio-sarcoma, myxo-sarcoma, chondro-sarcoma, and myo-sarcoma are mixed forms' which usually develop in already existing innocent tumours. The osteo- sarcoma is characterised by the formation in the tumour of true bone by a process of ossification, the medullary spaces being occupied by sarcomatous cells in place of marrow. The osteoid sarcoma is characterised by the formation of a tissue resembling bone but deficient in lime salts, and the 'petrifying sarcoma by the formation of calcified areas in the stroma. These varieties, although met with chiefly in the skeleton, may occur in the soft tissues such as muscle, and in such organs as the mamma. The pigmented varieties include the chloroma, which is of a light- green colour, and the melanotic sarcoma, which is brown or black. The psammoma is a sarcoma containing a material resembling sand, and it is chiefly met with in the membranes of the brain. Diagnosis of Sarcoma.—Sarcomata are to be differentiated from inflammatory swellings such as result from tubercle and syphilis, from innocent tumours, and from cancers. The points on which the diagnosis is founded are discussed with the different tissues and organs. Treatment.—The removal of the tumour by oj^eration is the only satisfactory method of treatment, but in order to be successful it must be undertaken before dissemination has taken place. It is absolutely essential to remove a considerable area of healthy tissue beyond the apparent margin of the growth. In tumours Avhich approach the surface of the body, the overlying skin should also be removed. If it is impossible to remove the tumour completely, or if there is already evidence of secondary growths, it is better to abstain from operative interference unless there are special indications to be fulfilled—such as the relief of pain or the arrest of hajinorrhage. In inoperable cases recourse has been had to the injection of the toxins of the streptococcus of erysipelas. This treatment is based on the fact that an intercurrent attack of erysipelas has occasionally resulted in the disappearance of a sarcoma. Coley’s fluid, which consists of a sterilised culture of the streptococcus of erysipelas and the bacillus prodigiosus, is the injection usually employed. The two organisms are grown together and the culture is then sterilised by heat. A dose, which varies in amount with the virulence of the culture employed, is injected every second or third day into the subcutaneous tissue at a little distance from the tumour. Each injection is followed by a reaction attended with fever, nausea, and pain; the treatment