CONTUSIONS OF JOINTS. 431 and arrangement of its ligaments ; (3) the support it receives from muscles or tendons placed in relation to it; and (4) the relative .stability of adjacent structures. While all these factors Contribute to the strength of a given joint, one or other of them usually predominates, so that certain joints are osseously strong, others are ligamentously strong, while a few depend chiefly upon adjacent muscles for their stability. The hip and elbow are the best examples of joints deriving their strength mainly from the architectural arrangement of the constituent bones. These joints are dislocated only by extreme degrees of violence, and not infrecpently—especially in the elbow—portions of the bones are fractured before the articular surfaces are separated. The wrist, the carpal, the tarsal, and the clavicular joints, depend for their stability almost entirely on the strength of their ligaments. These joints are rarely dislocated, but as the main incidence of the violence falls on the ligaments they are frequently siirained. The knee also is a ligamentously strong joint, and is further strengthened by its intra-articular ligaments. The shoulder is the typical example of a joint depending for its security chiefly upon the muscles and tendons 2)assing over it, and hence the frequency with which it is dislocated. At the same time the great mobility of the scapula and clavicle materially increase the stability of the shoulder-joint. It is probable that the tendons jjassing in relation to the knee, ankle, and wrist materially add to the stability of these joints. The jiroxiniity of an easily fractured bone also contributes to prevent dislocation of certain joints — for example, fracture of the clavicle jirevents an imjiinging force exjiending itself on the shoulder-joint; and the frequency of Colles’ fracture of the radius, and of Pott’s fracture of the fibula, doubtless accounts to some extent for the rarity of dis- location of the wrist and ankle joints resjiectively. The immunity from dislocation which the joints of young subjects enjoy is jtartly due to the ease with which the adjacent epiphyses are separated. The mechanical axiom that “what is gained in movement is lost in stability” is true of joints, those joints which have the widest range of movement being the most frequently dislocated. The injuries to which a joint is liable are Contusions, Wounds, Sprains, and Dislocations. Contusions of Joints. — Contu.sion is the mildest form of injury to a joint. Whether the violence is transmitted from a distance, as in contusion of the hip from a fall on the feet, or acts more directly, as in a fall on the great trochanter, the bones are violently driven against one another, and the force expends itself on their articular surfaces. The articular cartilages and the underlying spongy bone, as well as the synovial membrane, are bruised, and there is an eftusion of blood and serous fluid into the joint and surrounding tissues. The most prominent clinical features are swelling and dis- coloration. The swelling, especially in superficially placed joints, is an earlj' and marked symptom, and is mainly due to the effusion of blood into the joint (haanarthrosis). In