522 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. old person certain risk periosteum of the neck and the cervical ligaments remain intact, the shortening does not become apparent till a few days after the accident. As the other symptoms are correspondingly obscure, the condition is apt to be mistaken for a bruise. In all doubtful cases the part should be examined from day to day, and, if possible, the X-rays should be used. In impacted cases the signs of fracture are often obscure, and the patient may even be able to walk after the accident. The skin over the trochanter is usually discoloured from bruising. Eversion is usually present, but shortening may be very slight. Crepitus is absent. In old people it is seldom advisable to undo impaction, as the interlocking of the bones favours the occurrence of osseous union. Prognosis.—A fracture of the neck of the femur in an is always attended with a to life, a considerable pro- portion of the patients dying within a few weeks or months of the accident from causes associated with it. In some cases the mental and physical shock so far diminishes the vitality of the patient that death ensues within a few days. It is possible that fat embolism may account for death in some of the more rapidly fatal cases. In others, the continued dorsal position induces hypostatic congestion ,of the lungs, or, owing to the difficulties of nursing, bed-sores may form and death result from septic absorption. Frequently the prolonged confinement to bed, the continuous pain, and the natural impair- ment of appetite wear ont the patient’s strength. In many cases the patient becomes peevish, irritable, or mentally weak. Os.seous union is the exception in intra-capsular fracture, especially when the periosteum and the cervical ligaments have been completely torn. In sub-periosteal and in impacted fractures it sometimes occurs. As a rule, however, the neck of the femur becomes absorbed and disappears, the head of the bone comes to lie in contact with the base of the trochanter, and a false joint Fig. 172.—Fracture of Narrow Part of Neck of Femur. Tlie neck has become absorbed.