392 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. formation of firm adhesions; while in more acute cases the tendon may slough. The pus may burst into the cellular tissue outside the sheath, and the suppuration may spread to neigh- bouring sheaths or to adjacent bones or joints—for example, those of the wrist. The treatment consists in employing Bier’s congestion, or incision and drainage. As soon as the inflammation has sub- sided, active and passive movements are employed in order to prevent the formation of adhesions between the tendon and its sheath. If the tendon sloughs, the dead portion should be cut away, as its separation is extremely slow. Gonorrhoeal Tenosynovitis. — This is met with especially in the tendon sheaths about the wrist and ankle. It may occur in a mild form, with pain, impairment of movement, and oedema, and sometimes an elongated, fluctuating swelling develops, the result of serous effusion into the sheath. This condition may alternate with a gonorrhoeal affection of one of the large joints. It usually subsides under rest and soothing applications, but is liable to relapse. In the more severe variety the skin is red, and the swelling partakes of the characters of a phlegmon with threatening suppuration. Even if the sheath is filled with pus, the tendon rarely sloughs. This form should be incised. Tuberculous Disease of Tendon Sheaths.—This is a compara- tively common affection, and is analogous to tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane of joints. It may originate in the sheath, or may spread to it from disease in an adjacent bone. The commonest form—hydrops—is that in which the synovial sheath is distended with a viscous fluid, and the fibrinous material on the free surface becomes detached and is moulded into melon- seed bodies by the movement of the tendon. The sheath itself is thickened by the growth of tuberculous granulation tissue, which subsequently undergoes degeneration. The bodies vary greatly in size and shape, are of a dull-white colour, and have smooth surfaces (Fig. 2-54). There may be an overgrowth of the fatty fringes of the synovial sheath, a condition described as “arborescent lipoma.” The clinical features vary with the tendon sheath affected. In the common flexor sheath of the hand an hour-glass-shaped swelling is formed, bulging above and below the annular ligament—formerly known as compound palmar ganglion (Fig. 88). There is little or no pain, but the fingers tend to be stiff and weak, and they may become flexed. On palpation, it is usually possible to displace the contents of the sheath from one compartment to the other, and this may yield fluctuation, and.