TREATMENT OF ULCERS. 87 directions—(1) The venous retmii must be facilitated by eleva- tion of the limb and massage. (2) The induration of the surrounding parts must be got rid of before contraction of the sore is possible. For this purpose the free application of blisters, as first recommended by Syme, leaves little to be desired. Liquor epispasticus painted over the parts, or a large fiy-blister (emplastrum cantharidis) applied all round the ulcer, speedily disperses the infiammatory products which cause the induration. Multiple incisions in the skin around the ulcer fulfil the same object more rapidly and efficiently, and are therefore to be preferred. (.3) The septic element in the ulcer must be eliminated. When the ulcer is very foul, relays of charcoal poultices (three parts of linseed meal to one of charcoal), main- tained for thirty-six to forty-eight hours, are useful as a pre- liminary step. The base of the ulcer and the thickened edges should then be freely scraped with a sharp spoon, and the resulting raw surface sponged over with undiluted carbolic acid, after which an antiseptic dressing is apjjlied, and changed daily till healthy granulations appear. When these are slow to form, the sore may be stimulated by a dressing of boracic lint wrung out of red lotion and covered with a layer of gutta-percha tissue. So soon as the ulcer assumes the characters of a healing sore, it should be covered with Thiersch skin - grafts, which form a much better cicatrix than when the ulcer is allowed to heal without such aid. A more radical and very successful method of treatment consists in excising the whole ulcer and grafting the raw surface. Ambulatory Treatment. — When the circumstances of the patient forbid his lying up in bed the healing of the ulcer will be much delayed. He should be instructed to take every possible opportunity of placing the limb in an elevated position; and must constantly wear a firm bandage of elastic webbing. This webbing is porous and admits of evaporation of the skin and wound secretions—an advantage it has over Martin’s rubber bandage. The bandage should extend from the toes to well above the knee, and should always be applied while the patient is in the recumbent position with the leg elevated, preferably before getting out of bed in the morning. Additional support is given to the veins if the bandage is applied as a figure-of-eight, after the method suggested by Heron-Watson. We have found the following method very satisfactory in out-patient practice. The patient lying on a couch, the limb is