211 CYSTS. Retention and Exudation Cysts.—Retention cysts develop ■where t he duct of a secreting gland is partially obstructed; the secretion accumulates, and the gland and its duct become distended into a cyst. They are frecpiently met -w'ith in secret- ing organs, such as the mamma, pancreas, salivary glands, mucous and sebaceous glands. Sebaceous cysts or ■wens are described ■with diseases of the skin, and other retention cysts ■with the surgery of their respective regions. Exudation cysts arise from the distension of cavities which are not provided with excretory ducts, such as those in the thyroid. Implantation cysts are caused by the accidental implantation of portions of the epidermis into the underlying connective tissue, as may occur in accidental wounds by needles, awls, forks, or thorns. The implanted epidermis proliferates and forms a small cyst. They are met with chiefly on the palmar aspect of the fingers, and vary in size from a split pea to a cherry. The treatment consists in removing them by dissection. Parasitic cysts are produced by the growth within the tissues of cyst-forming parasites, the best known being the taenia echinococcus, which gives rise to the hydatid cyst. The parent worm, the taenia echinococcus, inhabits the in- testine of the dog, and its ova are passed with the faeces. Having gained entrance to the stomach of the intermediate host, the embryos are liberated; they bore through the wall of the in- testine and reach venous and lymphatic channels by which they are distributed throughout the body. When the embryo reaches its destination it loses its hooks, enlarges, becomes converted into a cyst and creates around it the formation of granulation tissue. The wall of the fully formed cyst is composed of an internal granular layer or endocyst; a laminated, elastic outer layer or ectocyst; and an adventitious capsule of fibrous tissue. From the endocyst are formed brood capsules and scolices, the latter representing the heads of the young echinococci, and exhibiting a series of suckers and a row of booklets. The fluid within the cyst is colourless, usually neutral in reaction, devoid of albumen, and contains a trace of sodium chloride, and other elements which vary with the organ in which the cyst is em- bedded. The inner layer of the parent cyst frequently gives origin to daughter cysts which may occupy the interior of the l^arent cyst or lie outside of it, the latter being the usual ar- rangement in the marrow of bone. Another variety known as the multilocular hydatid is met with chiefly in the liver, the organ which is by far the most common site of hydatid cysts in the human subject.