TUMOUES. 190 from a cyst. The distinguishing features of the lipoma are the tacking down and dimpling of the overlying skin, and the lobulation of the tumour which is recognised wEen it is pressed upon with the flat of the hand. The treatment consists in dividing the skin and capsule over the tumour and shelling it out. Care must be taken that none of the outlying lobules are detached and left behind. If the overlying skin is closely adherent, it should be removed along with the tumour. In the neck, axilla, pubic region and elsewhere, a diffuse over- growth of the subcutaneous fat is sometimes met with, forming large symmetrical tumour-like masses, known as a diffuse lipoma. As this is not, strictly speaking, a tumour, the term diffuse lipomatosis is to be preferred. If causing disfigurement the swelling may be removed, but complete extirpation is usually impossible, as the mass is not encapsulated (Fig. 43). Lipomata in other Situations.— The periosteal lipoma is usually of congenital origin, and is most often met with in the hand; it forms a projecting lobulated tumour which, when situated in the palm, may resemble an angioma or a lymph- angioma. The subserous lipoma may arise from the extra-peritoneal fat in the posterior abdominal wall, in which case it tends to grow forwards between the layers of the mesentery and to give rise to a large abdominal tumour; or it may grow from the extra- peritoneal fat in the anterior abdominal wall and protrude from one of the normal openings or through an abnormal opening in the parietes, constituting a fatty hernia. Suhsynovial lipomata grow from the fat surrounding the synovial membrane of a joint, and may project into its interior and give rise to the symptoms of loose body. Lipomata are also met with growing from the adipose connective tissue between oi‘ in the substance of muscles, and when situated beneath the deep fascia the characteristic signs are obscured and a differential diagnosis may be difficult or impossible. It may be differentiated from a cold abscess by puncture with an exploring needle. Xanthoma.—A xanthoma is a tumour composed of connective- tissue cells containing a granular yellow pigment. It occurs in Fig. 42.—Subcutaneous Lipoma.