WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 225 inches around the opening made by the bullet, and smoke and powder staining and scorching are more marked than at longer ranges. When the bullet perforates, the exit wound is usually larger and more extensively lacerated than the wound of entrance. Its margins are as a rule everted, and it shows no marks of flame, smoke, or powder. Pistol wounds only produce dangerous effects when fired at close range, and when the cavities of the skull, the thorax, or the abdomen are implicated. These injuries will be described with regional surgery. Pistol-shot wounds of joints and soft jMrts are seldom of serious imjjort apart from the risk of septic infection. Treatment.—The treatment of recent wounds of the soft parts consists in purifying the bullet tracks with a view to preventing- septic complications. An attempt may have to be made to remove the bullet, the exact position of which should, if possible, be determined by the use of the Rontgen rays. If the jiatient is not seen until the wound has healed, and if the bullet is deeply lodged and causes no inconvenience, it may be left alone. Probes should be avoided in searching for bullets in soft parts overlying joints or serous cavities ; the wounds should be enlarged, if necessary, to admit the finger for purposes of exploration. Wounds by Sporting-guns.—The weapons most commonly used in this country for sporting purposes are the 12- or 16-bore gun, and, less frequently, the smaller 20-bore. The cartridges are usually loaded with amberite or other smokeless powder, and carry a charge of from two to three hundred small pellets (No. 5 or No. 6 shot), weighing from 300 to 450 grains. The charge of small shot leaves the muzzle of the gun as a cylinder, gradually becoming spherical as the pellets scatter, till, at about twenty feet from the muzzle, the dispersion is complete, each pellet taking its own course. When the object struck is within one and a half to two feet of the muzzle of the gun, the charge makes a single, sharply cut wound, somewhat oval in outline, having much the appearance of a wound produced by a single bullet. The wound of exit is much larger and more ragged, and the tissues through which the charge has passed are torn and lacerated by the scattering of the pellets. If a bone is struck it is shattered and the soft parts around it are destroyed by the deflection of the shot, which tear up the tissues through which they pass. Portions of bone may be driven out through the exit wound and cause great laceration of its edges. VOL. I—15