572 INJURIES IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. continued growth of the fibula causes the foot to become inverted. The treatment is the same as for Pott’s fracture. Fracture of the astragalus may occur as a result of a fall from a height, the bone being crushed between the tibia and the os calcis. It is usually associated with other fractures, and its diagnosis is only to be made by exclusion, or by the use of the Rbntgen rays. The fracture is sometimes impacted and the foot assumes the position of equino-varus. The most satisfactory treatment, especially in impacted fracture with persistent deformity, is complete excision of the bone—an operation which usually yields very good results. In inter- preting radiograms of injuries in this I’egion, care must be taken not to mistake the os trigonum tarsi for a fracture. The os calcis is most frequently broken by the patient falling from a height, and landing on the sole of the foot, and the injury may occur simultaneously on both feet. The primary fracture is usually longitudinal, passing through the facets for the astragalus and cuboid, and from this various secondary fissures radiate; the cancelled tissue is much crushed, so that the whole bone is flattened out. In spite of the great comminution it is often impossible to elicit crepitus, as the fragments are held together by the investing soft parts. In other cases the foot may feel like “ a bag of bones.” The lesion is often mistaken for a fracture of the lower end of the fibula, or is not diagnosed at all. The chief clinical feature is pain on movement of the foot, or on attempting to walk. The foot appears flat, and the hollows on either side of the tendo Achillis are filled ujj. In many cases there is a persistent tenderness in the foot which delays restoration of function for some months, but the ultimate result is usually satisfactory. Treatment.—In simple comminuted fractures the patient should be anaesthetised, and the foot moulded into position, special care being taken to restore the arch in order to avoid any tendency to flat foot. The foot is supported on a pillow, and to prevent stiffness, massage and movements of the ankle and tarsal joints should be commenced within a few days. Compound fractures confined to the os calcis may be treated on conservative lines, but if associated with other injuries of the foot they may necessitate amputation. Reparation of the iwsterior tubercle, into which the tendo Achillis is inserted, by forcible contraction of the calf muscles, may result from a misstep, or from a fall on the ball of the foot. The separated fragment may be pulled up for a distance of one