DELIRIUM IN SURGICAL PATIENTS. 245 be exercised in the use of these drugs. Nutrient enemata containing stimulants may also be given. The intra-venous or intra-cellular injection of saline solution at a temperature of about 105° F. is most useful where much blood has been lost (p. 265). Two or three pints may be injected into the veins, or smaller quantities under the skin. The extreme thirst of which the patient so often complains is best met by giving small quantities of warm water by the mouth, or by the injection of saline solution into the rectum. Ice only relieves thirst for a short time, and as it is liable to induce flatulence .should be avoided, especially in abdominal cases. Dryness of the tongue may be relieved by swabbing the mouth with a mixture of glycerin and lemon juice. If severe pain after operation calls for the use of morphin, grain of atropin should be added to avoid the depressing effect of the opiate. Artiflcial respiration may be useful in tiding a patient over the critical period of shock. Collapse is a clinical condition which comes on more in- sidiously than shock, and which does not attain its maximum degree of severity for several hours. It is met with in the cour.se of severe illnesses, especially such as are associated with the loss of large quantities of fluid from the body—for example, by severe diarrhoea, notably in Asiatic cholera; by copious vomiting; or by profuse sweating, as in some cases of heat- stroke. Severe degrees of collapse follow any sudden and profuse loss of blood. Collapse often follows upon shock—for example, in intestinal perforations, or after abdominal operations complicated by peritonitis, especially if there is vomiting, as in cases of obstruction high up in the intestine. The symptoms of collapse are aggravated if septic absorption is superadded to the loss of fluid. The clinical features of this condition are practically the same as those of shock; and it is treated on the same lines. Delirium in Surgical Patients. Delirium is a temporary disturbance of mind which occurs in the course of certain diseases, and sometimes after injuries. It is to be looked upon as a serious and dangerous complication. The causes of delirium in surgical patients are numerous, and it is not always easy in a given case to discover the cause. Thus, for example, it may be associated with any of the acute