THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 286 to elapse before repeating the jjrocedure. From two to eight or ten sittings may be necessary, according to the size and character of the nsevus. Excision is to be preferred for nsevi of moderate size situated on covered parts of the body, where a scar is of no importance. When only a small proportion of the naevus is cutaneous, the invaded piece of skin may be removed with the tumour. Its chief advantages over electrolysis are that a single operation is sufficient, and that the cure is more speedy and certain. The operation is attended with much less haemorrhage than might be expected. Cavernous Angioma.—This form of angioma consists of a series of large blood spaces which are usually derived from the dilatation of the capillaries of a subcutaneous naevus. The spaces come to communicate freely with one another by the disappearance of adjacent capillary walls. It may appear at any age from early youth to middle life, and is of very slow growth. The swelling is rounded or oval, and feels not unlike a fatty tumour. There is no pulsation or bruit, and the tumour is but slightly compressible. If interfered with at all they should be removed by excision. Cavernous angiomata are sometimes met with in internal organs. Aneurysm by Anastomosis is the name applied to a vascular tumour in which arteries, veins, and capillaries are all involved. It is met with chiefly on the upper part of the trunk, the neck, and the scalp. It tends gradually to increase in size, and may, after many years, attain an enormous size. The tumour is nodulated, ill-defined, and varies in consistence. It is pulsatile, and a systolic bruit or a “ thrilling ” murmur may be heard over it. The chief risk is haemorrhage from injury or ulceration. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as for nsevus. When electrolysis is employed, it should be directed towards the afferent vessels; and if it fails to arrest the flow through these, it is useless to persist with it. In some cases ligation of the afferent vessels has been successful. Arterial Angioma or Cirsoid Aneurysm.—This is composed entirely of the enlarged branches of an arterial trunk. The condition originates in the smaller branches of an artery— usually the temporal—and may spread to the main trunk,' and may even involve branches of other trunks with which the affected artery anastomoses. The condition is probably congenital in origin, though its appearance is frequently preceded by an injury. It almost