ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 74 The discharge is })rofuse, thin, acrid, and offensive, and con- sists of jjus, broken-down blood-clot and sloughs. The edges are inflamed, irregular, and ragged, showing no sign of growing epithelium,—on the contrary, the sore may be actually increasing in area by the breaking - down of the tissues at its margins. The surrounding parts are in a state of inflammation—hot, red, swollen, and oedematous; and there is pain and tenderness both in the sore itself and in the parts around. Classification of Ulcers.—The nomenclature of ulcers is at present much involved and gives rise to great confusion, chiefly for the reason that no one basis of classification has been adopted. Thus some ulcers are named according to the causes at work in producing or maintaining them—for example, the traumatic, the septic, and the varicose ulcer; some from the constitutional element present, as the tuberculous, the syphilitic, the gouty, and the diabetic ulcer; and others according to the condition in which they happen to be when seen by the surgeon, such as the weak, the inflamed, the callous, and the healing ulcer. So long as we retain many of these names it will be im- possible to find a single basis for classification; and yet many of the terms are so convenient, so descriptive, and so generally understood that it is undesirable to abolish them. We must therefore remain coiitent with a clinical arrangement of ulcers— it cannot be called a classification,—considering any given ulcer from two points of view: first, its cause, and second, its j)resent condition. This method of studying ulcers has the practical advantage that it furnishes us with the main indications for treatment as well as for diagnosis,—the cause must be removed, and the condition so modified as to convert the ulcer into an aseptic healing sore. A. Arrangement of Ulcers according to their Cause.—It has already been indicated that the main cause of ulceration is the action of pyogenic bacteria, and that in addition there is usually some other factor present which determines the special characters of the ulcer and the clinical variety to which it belongs. Ulcers due to Traumatism.—Traumatism in the form of a crush or bruise is a frequent cause of ulcer formation, acting either by directly destroying the skin, or by so diminishing its vitality that it is rendered a suitable soil for bacteria. If these gain access, in the course of a few days the damaged area of skin becomes of a greyish colour, large blebs form over it, and it dies and separates, leaving a raw surface with feeble