INJURIES OF NERVES. 329 tile conflicting statements as to the sensory disturbances following the division and the repair of nerves. 2. Those which subserve protopathic sensibility, that is, are capable of responding to jiainfnl cutaneous stimuli and to the extremes of heat and cold. These also endow the hairs with sensibility to j)ain. 3. Those which subserve epicritic sensibility, the most highly specialised, callable of responding to light touch with a well-localised sensation, of appreciating the finer grades of temperature called cool and warm (72-104° F.), and of discriminating as separate the points of a pair of compasses 2 cms. apart. Injuries of Nerve.s. Nerves are liable to be injured in various ways : thus they may be cut or torn across, bruised, compressed, stretched, or torn away from their connections with the spinal cord. Complete division is a common result of accidental wounds, especially above the Avrist, where the ulnar, median, and radial nerves are frequently cut across. The mere interruption of the continuity of a nerve results in degeneration of its fibres, the myelin being broken up into droplets and absorbed, while the axis cylinders swell up, dis- integrate, and finally disapjiear. Both the conducting and the insulating elements are thus lost. The degeneration in the central end of the divided nerve is usually limited to the immediate proximity of the lesion, and does not involve all the nerve fibres. In the distal end, it is generally believed to extend throughout the entire peripheral distribution of the nerve, because the fibres are cut off from their trophic nerve cells in the spinal cord. The amount of degeneration, however, would appear to depend largely upon Avhether the ends are reunited or not, and on the length of time they remain apart. If there is a gap left between them, or if they are separated by scar tissue, the peripheral end undergoes complete degeneration in from six weeks to two months. If, however, the ends are in contact, degeneration may take place only to a very limited extent. Process of Repair when the Ends are in Contact.—If the wound is aseptic, the ends of the divided nerve become united, and the conducting paths are established by a regenera- tion of nerve fibres. There is a difference of opinion as to the method of regeneration. According to one view, the divided axis cylinders in the central end grow downwards and enter the nerve sheaths of the distal portion, and continue growing until they reach the peripheral terminations in muscle and skin, and in course of time they acquire a myelin shea.th. The other view is that the formation of new axis cylinders is not confined to the