INJURIES OF BONES. 414 After reduction has been effected appropriate means must be taken to retain the parts in position. The Reduction of a Fracture.—In some cases the displacement may be completely overcome by relaxing the muscles acting upon the fragments. In most cases, however, it is necessary, after relaxing the muscles, to employ extension., by making forcible but steady traction on the distal fragment, while counter-extension is exerted on the proximal one, either by an assistant pulling upon that portion of the limb, or by the weight of the patient’s body. The fragments having been freed, and any shortening of the limb corrected in this way, the broken ends are moulded into position—a process termed coaptation. The reduction of a recent greenstick fracture consists in forcibly straightening the bend in the bone, and in some cases it is necessary to render the fracture complete before this can be done. In certain cases of impacted fracture which will be specified later, it is not advisable to undo the imjjaction. In selecting a means of retaining a fracture in position after its reduction, the various factors which tend to bring about re-displacement must be taken into consideration, and appropriate measures adopted to counteract each of these. Thus it may be that the fragments, being oblique, tend to glide past one another ; that powerful muscles inserted into one of the fragments pull it away from its neighbour; that the weight of the distal portion of the limb causes it to fall in a particular direction in obedience to gravity; or that certain movements on the part of the patient determine displacement. In addition to retaining the broken ends of the bone in apposi- tion, the after-treatment of a fracture involves the taking of steps to promote the absorption of effused blood and serum, to main- tain the circulation through the injured parts, and to favour the repair of damaged muscles and other soft tissues. Means must also be taken to maintain the functional activity of the muscles of the damaged area, to prevent the formation of adhesions in joints and tendon sheaths, and generally to restore the function of the injured part. Practical Means of Effecting Retention—By Position.—It is often found that only in one particular position can the fragments be made to meet and remain in apposition—for example, the com- pletely supine position of the forearm in fracture of the radius just above the insertion of the pronator radii teres. Again, in certain cases it is only by relaxing particular groups of muscles that the displacement can be undone—as, for instance, in fracture