738 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. The most extreme and persistent deformities are met with in rickety dwarfs (Fig. 233). The chances of natural straightening of the curvature are very considerable in children under six years, and especially in those who are actively growing. Treatment.—Under the age of six, and particularly in children who are actively growing, the bones will probably straighten if the patient is treated for rickets and kept off his feet. Well- padded external splints should be applied as recommended for knock-knee, and these should be taken off at intervals for massage and douching, and manipulations tending to undo the curvature. To save time the bones may be forcibly straightened under chloroform. Above the age of six, when the bones have become hard, they must be divided at the seat of greatest curvature. In the tibia an oblique or vertical osteo- tomy may suffice, but it is more satisfactory to remove a seg- ment of the bone by means of the wire saw. The fibula can usually be forcibly straightened, but may require to be divided through a separate incision. In aggravated cases it may also be necessary to divide the tendo Achillis. The deformities of the bones of the leg in inherited syphilis, ostitis deformans, and osteomalacia have already been described. Congenital Deficiencies of the Bones of the Leg.—The tibia may be absent completely or in part. In either case the leg is short and stunted, the knee is flexed, the foot occupies the position of extreme equino-varus, and the limb is useless. The exact nature of the defect is demonstrated by the Rdntgen rays. When the upper end of the tibia is absent, the fibula articulates with the external condyle of the femur. The ojierative treat- ment aims at correcting the flexion at the knee, and the equino- varus of the foot, and at substituting the fibula for the absent tibia. The deficiency of the upper end may be compensated for by implanting the head of the fibula between the condyles of the femur, and that at the lower end by splitting the fibula so as to form a socket for the astragalus. If an operation is inappli- cable or fails, the deformed leg may be amputated to allow of the use of an artificial limb. flula may be absent completely or in part. The clinical appearances depend upon the condition of the tibia. M^hen the tibia is normal, the most notable feature is the absence of the outer ankle bone, and the extreme valgus attitude of the foot. More commonly the tibia makes a sharp forward bend just below its middle, and the overlying skin presents a dimple or ,scar-like depression. This has usually been regarded as an