218 INJURIES. In all contusions accompanied by extravasation there is marked swelling of the area involved, as well as pain and tenderness. The temperature may rise to 101° F., or, in the large extravasations which occur in bleeders, even higher—a form of aseptic fever (Fig. 12). The degree of shock is variable, but sudden syncope frequently results from severe bruises of the testicle, abdomen, or head, and occasionally marked nervous depression follows these injuries. Contusion of muscles or nerves may produce partial atro2:>hy and paresis, as is often seen after injuries in the region of the shoulder. In alcoholic or other debilitated patients, suppuration is liable to ensue in bruised parts, infection taking place from cocci circulating in the blood, or through the overlying skin. Treatment.—If the patient is seen immediately after the accident, elevation of the part, and firm pressure applied by means of a thick pad of cotton wool and an elastic bandage, are useful in preventing effusion of blood. Ice-bags and evaporat- ing lotions are to be used with caution, as they are liable to lower the vitality of the damaged tissues and lead to gangrene. When extravasation has taken place before the patient is seen, massage is the most speedy and efficacious means of dis- persing the effused blood. The part should be rubbed centri- petally several times a day, for from fifteen to thirty minutes, unless the presence of blebs or abrasions of the skin j:)revent this being done. When this is the case the use of antiseptic dressings is called for to prevent infection and to promote healing, after which massage is employed. When the tension caused by the extravasated blood threatens the vitality of the skin, incisions may be made, but only if absolute asepsis can be assured. The blood from a haematoma may be withdrawn by an exploring needle, and the puncture sealed with collodion. Septic complications must be met on general principles. Wounds. A wound is a solution in the continuity of the skin or mucous membrane and the underlying tissues. Three varieties of wounds are described : incised, punctured, and contused and lacerated. Incised Wounds.—The best examples of incised wounds are those made deliberately by the surgeon in the course of an operation. Wounds accidentally inflicted by cutting instruments