GANGEENE. 9C tissue necrosis in wliicli micro-organisms do not play the most important part in producing death. Their subsequent intro- duction is an accident, albeit one of such importance that it changes the whole aspect of affairs and converts a dry form of gangrene into one of the moist type. Moreover, the low state of vitality of the tissues, and the extreme difficulty of securing and maintaining asepsis, make it a sequel of great frequency. Gangrene from Physico-chemical Causes.—When a localised portion of tissue—for example, a piece of skin— is so severely crushed or bruised that its blood- vessels are occluded and its structure destroyed, it immediately dies, and, if not infected with bacteria, dries up and forms a shrivelled brown slough, which is slowly separated by the growth of granulation tissue beneath and around it (Fig. 21). Fingers, toes, or even considerable portions of limbs may in the same way be suddenly destroyed by severe trauma and undergo mummification. If organisms gain access, typical moist gangrene may ensue, or changes similar to those of ordinary post- mortem decomposition may take place. Severe hums and scalds may be followed by the same results. So long as the parts are kept absolutely dry—as, for example, by the picric acid method of treatment — the grossly damaged portions of tissue undergo dry gangrene; but when moist or oily dressings are applied and organisms gain access, moist gangrene follows. Gangrene from Frost-hite.—It is difficult to draw the line between the third ilegree of chilblain and the milder forms of true fro.st-bite. The difference is merely one of degree. Frost- bite affects chiefly the toes and fingers,—especially the great toe and the little finger,—the ears, and the nose. In this country it is seldom seen except in members of the tramp class, who, in addition to being exposed to cold by sleeping in the open air, are ill-fed and generally debilitated. The condition usually manifests itself after the parts, having been subjected to extreme cold, are brought into warm surroundings. The first symptom Fig. 21,—Dry Gangrene of Skin after Amputation at Slioulder- joint for Railway Injury.