HAEMORRHAGE. 259 wood in the fold to act as a pad. The handkerchief is applied round the limb, with the i>ad over the main artery, and the ends knotted on the outer asi>ect of the limb. With a strong i>iece of wood the handkerchief is wound up like a Spanish windlass, until sufficient pressure is exerted to arrest the bleeding. It is sometimes found on the removal of this extemporised tourniquet that the bleeding has ceased, coagula having formed in the divided vessels. As, however, such wounds are usually infected, it is seldom advisable to trust to this cessation being permanent, because if se})sis occurs in the wound it is liable later to give rise to secondary haemorrhage. It is safer to remove from the tissues all clots which have formed and are obscuring the divided vessels, and after i)urifying the wound, to ensure permanent closure of both ends of these by one or other of the means described on p. 261. When haemorrhage is taking place from a number of small vessels its arrest may be effected by elevation of the bleeding part, particularly if it is a limb. By this means the force of the circulation is diminished and the formation of coagula favoured. Similarly in wounds of the hand or forearm, or of the foot or leg, bleeding may be arrested by acutely Hexing the limb at the elbow or knee respectively. If the hmmorrhage is from a partially divided vessel, this should be completely cut across to enable its walls to contract and retract, and to facilitate the application of forceps and ligatures. After any of these measures active stimulation of the patient should be avoided, and absolute rest ensured. Haemorrhage in Surgical Operations.—The management of the hieniorrhage which accomiianies a surgical operation includes (a) preventive measures, and (h) the arrest of the bleeding. Prevention of Haemorrhage.—The most convenient and certain means of preventing hajinorrhage—say in an amputation —is by the use of some form of tourtm/uet, such as the elastic tubing of Esmarch or of Foulis, or an elastic Ijandage, or the screw tourniquet of Petit. Before applying any of these it is advisable to empty the limb of blood. This is best done after the manner suggested by Lister. The limb is held vertical for three or four minutes; the veins are thus emptied by gravitation and they collapse, and as a physiological result of this the arteries rellexly contract, so that the quantity of blood entering the limb is reduced to a minimum. With the limb still elevated the tourniquet is firmly applied, a part being selected where the vessel can be pressed directly against a