DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 485 When it remains intact it may rest below the condyles (incom- plete or first stage of dislocation), or may pass in front of them, especially if the triceps is ruptured (comj)lete or second stage). The forearm is lengthened, the elbow slightly flexed, the posterior aspect of the joint flattened, and the condyles and olecranon, in their abnormal relationship, can be palpated from behind. Lateral Dislocations.—Dislocation towards the ulnar side— inward—is, always incomplete, some portion of the articular surface of the bones of the forearm remaining in contact with the condyles. The radial or mUward dislocation is also incomplete as a rule, although cases have been recorded in which complete separation had taken place. Both forms of lateral dislocation are rare, the inward variety being that more frequently observed. Each form is often combined with other injuries in the region of the joint. The most common cause of the.se dislocations is a fall on the outstretched hand, the forearm at the moment being strongly pronated. Forced abduction favours the inward displacement; adduction the outward. The limb is held flexed and pronated, and the facility with which the bony points can be palpated renders the diagnosis easy. In a few cases diverging dislocations have been met with, the radius and ulna being separated from one another, the orbicular ligament being torn and no longer holding them together. Treatment of Dislocations of Elbow.—The chief obstacle to reduction in the backward and lateral dislocations is the spas- modic contraction of the muscles passing over the joint, and sometimes the hitching of the coronoid process against the edge of the olecranon fossa. In recent cases, to effect reduction the patient is seated on a chair, while the surgeon grasps the humerus and wri.st, and places his knee in the bend of the elbow. The limb is first fully extended, or even hyper- extended, to relax the triceps and free the coronoid process. Traction is then made in opposite directions upon the forearm and upper arm, the surgeon’s knee meanwhile making pressure, in a backward direction, upon the lower end of the humerus. The joint is next slowly flexed, and the bones sli}) into position, often with a distinct snap. If the patient be an^sthetised these manipulations must be adapted to the recumbent position. When some days have elapsed before reduction is attempted, adhesions must be broken down by flexing, extending, and laterally moving the joint, under an anaesthetic, before the above manqjulations are carried out.