276 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. the condition when it is once established. It has been proved experimentally that the backward pressure in the veins may be greatly increased by straining, a fact which helps to explain the frequency with which varicosity occurs in the lower limbs of athletes and of those whose occupation involves repeated and violent muscular efforts. There is reason to believe, moreover, that a sudden strain may, by rupturing the valves and so rendering them incompetent, induce varicosity independently of any congenital defect. Prolonged standing or walking, by allowing gravity to act on the column of blood in the veins of the lower limbs, is also an im- portant determining factor in the production of varix. Thrombosis of the deep veins— in the leg, for example—may induce marked dilatation of the superficial veins, by throwing an increased amount of work upon them. This is to be looked upon rather as a compensatory hypertrophy of the superficial vessels than as a true varix. Morbid Anatomy.—In the lower extremities, the varicosity most commonly affects the vessels of the internal saphena system; less frequently those of the external saphena system. Sometimes both systems are involved, and abnorm- Fig. 59.-Resected portion of ally large communicating branches Varicose Vein, showing Tortn- may develop between the two. osity and unequal Dilatation. With the exception of the vense comites of the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, the deep veins appear to escape. The whole length of a vein may be affected, but as a rule the disease is confined to one or more segments of it. These segments are not only dilated, but in many cases are also increased in length, so that they become more or less convoluted. The adjacent loops of the convoluted vein are often bound together by fibrous adhesions. All the coats are thickened, chiefly by an increased development of connective tissue, and in some cases changes similar to those of atheroma occur. The walls of varicose veins are often exceedingly brittle. In