TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 599 Tuberculous Diseases. The tuberculous diseases of bone result from infection of the marrow or periosteum by tubercle bacilli conveyed through the arteries. It is exceedingly rare for tubercle to appear in bone as a primary infection, the bacilli being usually derived from some pre-existing focus in the bronchial glands or elsewhere. These diseases are characterised by their insidious onset and slow progress, and by the frequency with which they are associated with tuberculous disease of the adjacent joint. The association of bone and joint disease is explained by the tendency which tubercle has to attack the articular extremities of long bones and the marrow of short bones—for exam})le, tliose of the carpus or tarsus. Volkmann, Konig, and Watson Cheyne should be mentioned as among those who have contributed most to our knowledge of the tuberculous diseases of bone. Tuberculous Periostitis is met with in the ribs, sternum, spinal column, skull, and less frequently in the long bones of the limbs. It may originate in the periosteum or may spread thence from the marrow. In superficial hones, such as the sternum, the formation of tuberculous granulation tissue in the deeper layer of the peri- osteum, and its subsequent caseation and liquefaction, is at- tended by the insidious development of a doughy swelling in relation to the bone, which is not as a rule painful, although tender on pressure. While the swelling may remain for some time without change, it eventually increases in size, becomes boggy or fluctuating, and assumes the characters of a cold abscess. The pus perforates the fibrous layer of the periosteum, invading and infecting the overlying soft parts, its spread being influenced by the anatomical arrangement of the tissues. The size of the abscess affords no indication of the extent of the bone lesion from which it originates. As the abscess reaches the surface, the skin becomes of a dusky red or livid colour, is gradually thinned out, and finally gives way, forming a sinus. A probe passed into the sinus strikes carious bone. The sinus persists as long as any active tubercle remains in the tissues, and unless protected by suitable dressings, forms an avenue for infection by pyogenic organisms, which favour the spread of the disease both in the bone and in the overlying soft parts. Small superficial sequestra of compact bone may sometimes be found embedded in the granulation tissue formed in relation to the periosteum. In deeply seated bones, such as the upper end of the femur.