GANGRENE. 106 typhus, typhoid, or other fevers. It is due to endarteritis, thrombosis, or embolism, and occurs in peripheral parts, such as the toes, fingers, nose, or ears. Bacterial Varieties of Gangrene. Gangrene primarily due to infection with bacteria is of the moist type, and tends to spread rajjidly and to end fatally. Acute Infective Gangrene usually follows trivial injuries, such as a pin-prick or a scratch. On the other hand it may ensue very early on such severe injuries as result from rail- way, machinery, or street accidents, where, in addition to the extensive laceration and bruising of tissues, including vessels and nerves, there is gross dirt ground into the wounds. Some virulent pyogenic organism is introduced, producing extensive stasis and interference with the venous return. The highly poisonous toxins not only lead to serious constitutional dis- turbances, but by their local irritant action add to the venous stasis, and so determine a rapidly-spreading gangrenous process. Clinical Features.—Often within a few hours of the injury the whole part rapidly becomes painful, swollen, oedematous, and tense. The skin is at first glazed, and perhaps paler than normal, but soon assumes a dull red or purplish hue, and bull5e form on the surface. Putrefactive gases may be evolved in the tissues, and their presence is indicated by emphysematous crackling when the part is handled. The spread of the disease is so rapid that its progress is quite visible from hour to hour, and may be traced by the occurrence of red lines along the course of the lymphatics of the limb. In the most acute cases the death of the affected part takes place so rapidly that the local changes indicative of gangi’ene have not time to occur, and the fact that the part is dead may be overlooked. Rigors may occur, but the temperature is not necessarily raised—indeed it is sometimes subnormal. The pulse is small, feeble, rapid, and irregular. Unless promptly treated by amputation, death usually follows within thirty-six or forty- eight hours. Even early operation does not always avert the fatal issue, because the quantity of toxin absorbed and its extreme virulence are often more than even a robust subject can outlive. Prophylaxis.—Strenuous efforts must be made to pui’ify thoroughly all such wounds as are contaminated by earth, street dust, stable refuse, or other forms of gross dirt. The scissors