THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 298 attached to the wire, while the negative pole is placed over the patient’s back. A current, varying in strength from twenty to seventy milliamperes, is allowed to flow for about an hour. The hollow needle is then withdrawn, but the wire is left in situ. The results are somewhat similar to those obtained by needling and by electrolysis, but the clot formed on the large coil of wire is more extensive. Subcutaneous Injections of Gelatin.—This method of treating inoperable cases of sacculated aneurysm is still on its trial. It is based on the fact that a solution of gelatin introduced into the circulation increases the coagulability of the blood. Three or four ounces of a two per cent, solution of white gelatin in sterilised water, at a temperature of about 100° F., are injected into the subcutaneous tissue of the abdonien every two, three, or four days. In the course of a fortnight or three weeks improve- ment may begin. The clot which forms is liable to soften and be absorbed, but a rej^etition of injections has in several cases established a permanent cure. In rare cases amputation is the only treatment which oflers a prospect of saving life. It is indicated chiefly in cases com- plicated by suppuration, by secondary hajinorrhage after excision or ligature, or by gangrene. Amputation beyond the aneurysm lias been performed as a means of arresting the blood-flow through the sac, and so effecting a cure—for examjile, amputation at the shoulder for subclavian aneurysm (Fergusson). The method of treatment to be selected for any given case of aneurysm depends greatly on the general health of the patient, and on the variety, site, and condition of the aneurysm, and will be considered apropos of aneurysms of individual arteries. Tkauma.tic Aneurysm. The essential feature of a traumatic aneurysm is that it is produced by some form of injury which divides all the coats of the artery. The walls of the injured vessel are usually healthy, but they form no part of the sac of the aneurysm. The sac consists of the condensed and thickened soft tissues which surround the artery. The injury to the artery may be of the nature of a sub- cutaneous wound or tear, such as is produced by the fragments of a broken bone, or it may be a punctured wound from a stab or cut. Only small wounds of arteries give rise to traumatic aneurysm, as extensive wounds are attended with a sudden and profuse haemorrhage into the cellular tissue which shows no