HAEMORRHAGE. 263 for example, by an abscess burrowing into it, or by necrosis of its walls in a septic wound, as in cellulitis of the neck following scarlet fever, or by the pressure of a drainage tube. As secondary hEemorrhage is almost invariably the result of septic processes, it is much less frequent now than it was in pre-antiseptic days. In whatever way the infective material reaches the vessel—whether from suppuration in the wound, from the material used for ligature, or from the blood-stream —it produces an inflammatory softening and disintegration of the occluding clot or young connective tissue, and of the vessel wall. The bleeding which takes place when the vessel at length gives way may at first be sligiit and may stop spontaneously. It soon recurs, however, and as the destructive process progresses, the recurrences become more frequent and the How more abundant, until eventually profuse, and it may be fatal, hiemorrhage results. The occurrence of slight htemorrhages from a suppurating wound in the vicinity of a large blood-vessel is strongly suggestive of secondary haemorrhage, and should always lead to steps being taken to avoid more serious bleeding, or to deal with it when it occurs. A Petit’s screw tourniquet should be loosely applied to the limb above the wound, and the nurse should be instructed to tighten it up in the event of bleeding taking place, and to summon the surgeon without delay. In most cases, however, it is safer to anticipate serious bleeding by operative measures. If the bleeding is from a moderate-sized vessel, it may be sufficient to wash out the wound with hot lotion, and after sponging it with pure carbolic acid, to plug it tightly with iodoform or double-cyanide gauze. When a large vessel is involved and when the wound is badly infected and sloughing, it is safer to ligature the main vessel through a fresh incision at a selected point higher up. Should this fail to arrest the hmmorrhage or should the pro- cedure be likely to be followed by gangrene, it may be necessary to amputate the lindi well above the infected area. Gangrene is more likely to follow ligature of the main vessels of the lower than of the upper extremity under these conditions, although we have ligatured both the external iliac artei’y and vein for secondary hmmorrhage without inducing gangrene. In situa- tions where proximal ligature is impossible—for example, in the neck, the groin, or the pelvis—firm plugging with antiseptic gauze may be the only treatment available. Constitutional Effects of Haemorrhage. —The severity of