706 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. The nature and seat of the bone lesions are subject to the same wide variations as in other joints; the tibia and femur are affected with about equal frequency. Multiple small foci may be found beneath the articular cartilage of the tibia, or along the lateral margins of the femoral condyles—especially the internal. Caseating foci are comparatively rare, but they sometimes attain a considerable size—especially in the head of the tibia, where they may assume the character of a caseous abscess. Sclerosed foci, which may form sequestra, are comparatively common (Fig. 270). Diffuse caseating osteomyelitis may involve an entire epiphysis and extend into the adjacent shaft. Clinical Types of Tuberculous Disease of the Knee.—(1) Hy drops tuberculosis is that type in which the outstanding feature is the accumulation of fluid in the joint (Fig. 271). It usually arises from a purely synovial lesion, but when the joint suddenly becomes distended with fluid, it may depend on foci in the bones. It is met with chiefly in young Fig. 27p.—The Lower End ol'Femur adults. As a rule, the fluid ac- Irom an advanced case of Tuber- cumulates gradually and imper- culous Arthriti.s of the Knee. .i • ,i i Towards the posterior a.spect of ceptibly, stretching the capsule, tlie internal condyle there is a and pushing the patella forwards, wedge - shaped sequestrum, of so that it floats. There is little which the surface exposed to the qj. interference with the func- ioiiit IS pohslieu like porcelain. . .1 j.* j. • ■’ ^ ^ tions 01 the joint; the patient is (Anatomicai^Mn^^^^^^^^ of ^ble to Walk, but is easily tired. The amount of fluid dimin- ishes under rest, and increases after use of the limb. In a certain number of cases it may be possible to recognise some thickening of the synovial membrane, or the presence of friction or crepitation from the mutual contact of floating masses of fibrin or melon-.seed bodies. This is best appreciated if the knee is alternately flexed and extended by the patient while the surgeon grasps and compresses it with both hands. If the joint is opened, fibrinous material, often in the form of melon-seed bodie-s, may be found lining the synovial membrane and partially covering the articular surfaces. Melon-seed bodies may be found in the fluid withdrawn from the joint.