167 ACQUIEED SYPHILIS. adhesions have formed between the iris and the structures in relation to it, the ijupil dilates irregularly under atropin. Although complete recovery is to be expected under early and energetic treatment, if neglected, iritis may result in occlusion of the pupil and permanent impairment or loss of sight. The other lesions of the eye are much rarer, and can only be discovered on ophthalmoscopic examination. Choroiditis occurs in patches, and leaves areas of a white or grey colour surrounded by black pigment. Unless these patches occur in the vicinity of the optic disc they give rise to no symptoms. Neuro-retinitis, on the other hand, attracts attention because it is attended with failure of sight in one or in both eyes; the optic disc and adjacent retina present the usual appearances of inflammation, becoming blurred and hazy. In the Brain, in the later periods of secondary and in tertiary syphilis, changes occur of the nature of endarteritis, attended with narrowing of the lumen of the arteries, and it may be complete obliteration from superadded thrombosis. By interfering with the nutrition of those parts of the brain to which the affected arteries are distributed, these lesions give rise to clinical features of which sevei'e headache and paralysis are the most prominent. The paralysis may involve one side of the body (hemiplegia), and be attended with convulsions and coma, or may be confined to one limb or to the area of distribution of certain of the cranial nerves. Anti-.syphilitic remedies have but little curative influence in these lesions, and the paralysis is often permanent. Affections of the Sjnnal Cord are extremely rare, but para- plegia from myelitis has been observed. In concluding the description of the manifestations of secondary syphilis, attention must be directed to the remarkable variations observed in different patients, not only when the disease is allowed to run its course without treatment, but also when anti-syphilitic remedies have been employed. Sometimes the virulent character of the disease can only be accounted for by the idiosyncrasy of the patient. Individuals over forty years of age have greater difficulty in getting rid of the infection than younger adults. Malarial and other fevers, and the conditions attending life in tropical countries, in virtue of the debility which they cause, tend to aggravate and prolong the disease, which then assumes the characters of what has been called malignant syphilis. All chronic ailments have a similar influence, and alcoholic intemperance is universally regarded as a serious aggravating factor. It is a popular belief that syphilis