11 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. by simjile fission, each parent cell giving rise to two daughter cells, and this process goes on with such extraordinary rapidity that it has been conijmted that in twenty-four hours from one individual bacterium seventeen millions of similar cells may be produced. Other varieties are propagated by the formation of spores, but as most spore-forming bacteria give rise to only one spore, this is rather a jjrocess of rejuvenescence than of multi- plication. A spore is a minute mass of protoplasm surrounded by a dense, tough membrane, developed in the interior of the parent cell. Spores are remarkable for their tenacity of life, and for the resistance they offer to the action of heat and chemical germicides. Bacteria are most conveniently classified 'according to their shapes. Thus we recognise (1) those which are globular—cocci; (2) those which resemble a rod—bacilli. Cocci or micrococci are minute round bodies, averaging 1 to U5 mm. in diameter. They all multiply by fission, and when they divide in such a way that the resulting cells remain in j)airs, they are called diplococci, of which the bacteria of gonorrhoea and pneumonia are examjiles (Fig. I). When they divide irregularly and form grape-like bunches they are known as staphylococci, and to this variety the commonest pyogenic or pus-forming organisms belong (Fig. 1). When division takes place only in one axis, so that long chains are formed, the term streptococcus is a2)})lied (Fig. 2). Strei)tococci are met with in erysipelas and various other inflammatory and su2)purative jjro- cesses of a S2)reading character. Bacilli are rod-shaped bacteria, usually at least twice as long as they are broad. Some multi})ly by fission, others by s2)orula- tion. Tuberculosis, tetanus, anthrax, and many other surgical diseases are due to different forms of bacilli (Figs. 28, 29, 34). Conditions of Bacterial Life.—The first essential to the growth and develoinuent of bacteria is a suitable food-supjily in the form of proteids and carbohydrates, which comjjlex organic substances they break up, in the act of nourishing themselves, into simjtler elements. An alkaline medium favours bacterial growth; and moisture is a necessary condition, although s})ores can survive the want of water for much longer [jeriods than fully developed bacteria. The necessity for oxygen varies in different sjjecies. Those which, like the bacillus jn’oteus vulgaris, can only flourish in its jjresence are known as aerobic bacilli, or aerobes; those, such as the bacillus of tetanus and of malignant oedema, which will not live in the presence of oxygen, are spoken of as anaerobic. The great majority of bacteria, how-