GENEEAL PRINCIPLES OF TREATMENT. 47 Before applying leeches the part must be thoroughly cleansed, and if the leech is slow to bite, may be smeared with cream. The leech is retained in position under an inverted wine-glass or wide test-tube till it takes hold. After it has sucked its fill it usually drops off, having withdrawn about a dram or a dram and a half of blood. If it be desirable to withdraw more blood, hot fomentations should be immediately applied to the bite. As it is sometimes necessary to employ comsiderable pressure to stop bleeding from a leech bite, leeches should, if pos.sible, be ai)plied over a bone which will furnish the necessary resistance. The use of styptics may be called for. Cupping.—Two methods of cupping are employed—dry and wet. In dry cupp>ing, a small tumbler, the inside edge of which has previously been oiled, has a piece of blotting-paper soaked in methylated spirit placed in it and ignited, and while this is still burning the tumbler is inverted and pressed firmly over the part to be cupped. The burning of the air and the subsequent cooling create a partial vacuum inside the glass, and the skin and subcutaneous tissue full of blood and fluid are drawn into it. To release the glass the finger-nail is gently inserted under its edge. In wet cupp>ing, the skin is scarified by a lancet before the cup is applied. Each cup withdraws about two or three drams of blood, and if more is desired, hot fomentations may be applied. Free incisions, with antiseptic precautions, are safe and certain as a means of letting blood, and may be called for in deej)-seated inflammations to relieve extreme tension. Counter-irritants.—In deep-seated inflammations counter- irritants are sometimes employed in the form of mustard leaves or blisters, according to the degree of irritation required. A mustard leaf or plaster should not be left on longer than ten or fifteen minutes, unless it is desired to produce a blister. Blistering may be produced by a cantharidis plaster, or by painting with liquor epispasticus. The plaster should be left on for from eight to ten hours, and if it has failed to raise a blister, a hot fomentation should be aj)plied to the part. Liquor epispasticus, alone or mixed with equal parts of collodion, is painted on the part with a brush. Several paintings are often required before a blister is raised. The removal of the natural grease from the skin by ether favours the action of these applications. Cold.—Cold is only to be employed in the early hypersemic stages of inflammation. It acts by contracting the blood-vessels and so diminishing the amount of blood reaching the part. In