DISEASES OF BONE. 608 margins, and which gradually shades off into the surrounding bone. The swelling may disappear entirely or may give place to a densely hard node. In some cases the gumma softens in the centre, the skin becomes adherent, thin and red, and finally gives way. The opening in the skin may persist as a sinus, or may develop into the typical syphilitic ulcer with irregular, crescentic margins; in either case a probe reveals the presence of carious bone or of a sequestrum. The general health may be impaired as a result of superadded pyogenic infection and the absorption of toxins, and waxy degeneration in the viscera may ultimately be induced. A central gumma in a long bone may not reveal its presence until it erupts through the shell of the bone and reaches the periosteal surface or invades an adjacent joint. Sometimes the first manifestation is a fracture of the bone produced by slight violence. In radiograms the appearances of bones which are the seat of syphilitic disease are often characteristic. When there is hyperostosis and sclerosis, the shadow of the shaft of the bone is denser and broader than normal and the contour is uneven or wavy. When there is a central gumma, the shadow is inter- cepted by a rounded clear area. Diagnosis.—The conditions most liable to be mistaken for syphilitic disease of bone are chronic staphylococcal osteomyelitis, tuberculosis, and sarcoma; and the diagnosis is to be made by the history and progress of the disease, the results of exa- mination with the X-rays, and the effects of specific medicines. Treatment.—In all cases the general health is to be improved by open air, by nourishing food, and by the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and arsenic. Anti-syphilitic remedies should be given a thorough trial, and if they are administered before there is any destruction of tissue, the benefit derived from them is usually very decided. In certain cases, and particularly when there are destructive changes in the bone complicated with septic infection, specific remedies have little effect. In cases of persistent or relapsing gummatous disease with ulceration of skin, it is often necessary to remove the diseased soft parts with the sharp spoon and scissors, and to gouge or chisel away the unhealthy bone on the same lines as in tuberculous disease. Where hyperostosis and sclerosis of the bone is attended with severe pain which does not yield to blistering, the periosteum may be inci.sed and the sclerosed bone perforated with a drill, gouge, or trephine. When gummatous disease in the nose or palate persists