137 CHIGOE—SNAKE-BITES. occurs ofteiiest on the face, and is believed to be due to an organism, although this has not been demonstrated. The infection is supposed to be conveyed througli water used for washing, or by the bites of insects. Clinical Features.—A red sjjot, resembling the mark of a mosquito bite, appears on the affected part, and is attended with itching. After becoming jiapular and increasing to the size of a pea, desquamation takes ]ilace, leaving a dull-red surface over which in the course of several weeks there develops a series of small yellowish-white spots, from which serum exudes, and, drying, forms a thick scab. Under this scab the skin ulcerates, leaving small oval sores with sharply bevelled edges, and an uneven floor covered rvith yellow or saiiious pus. These sores vary in number from one to forty or fifty. They may last for months and then heal spontaneously, or may continue to spread until arrested by suitable treatment. There is no enlargement of adjacent glands, and but little inflammatory reaction in the surrounding tissues ; nor is there any marked constitutional disturbance. Kecovery is often followed by considerable cicatricial contraction leading to marked deformity of the face. The treatment consists in destroying the original papule by the actual cautery, acid nitrate of mercury, or pure carbolic acid. The ulcers should be scraped with the sharp spoon, and cauterised. Chigoe.—Chigoe or jigger results from the introduction of the eggs of the sand-flea {Pulex x>cnctrans) into the tissues. It occurs in tropical Africa, South America, and the West Indies. The inijiregnated female flea remains attached to the part till the eggs mature, when by their irritation they cause localised inflammation with pustular or vesicular swelling. Children are most commonly attacked, particularly about the toe-nails and on the scrotum. The treatment consists in picking out the insect with a blunt needle, special care being taken not to break it up. The puncture is then cauterised. The apjilieation of essential oils to the feet acts as a preventive. Poisoning by Insects.—The bites of certain insects, such as mosquitoes, midges, different varieties of flies, wasps, and spiders, may be followed by serious complications. The effects are mainly due to the injection of an irritant acid secretion, the exact nature of which has not been ascertained. The local lesion is a puncture, surrounded by a zone of hyperaemia, wheals, or vesicles, and is associated with burning sensations and itching, which usually pass off in a few hours, but may recur at intervals, especially when the patient is warm in bed. Scratching also rejiroduces the local signs and symptoms. Where the connective tissue is loose—for example, in the eyelid or scrotum—there is often considerable swelling ; and in the mouth and fauces this may lead to oedema of the glottis, which may prove fatal. The treatment consists in the local application of dilute alkalies such as ammonia water, solutions of carbonate or bicarbonate of soda, or sal- volatile. Weak carbolic lotions, or lead and opium lotion, are useful in allaying the local irritation. One of the best means of neutralising the poison is to apply to the sting a drop of a mixture containing equal parts of pure carbolic acid and ammonia. Tree stimulation is called for when severe constitutional symptoms are present. Snake-Bites.—We are here only concerned with the injuries inflicted by the venomous varieties of snakes, the most important of which are the hooded snakes of India, the rattlesnakes of America, the horned