THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 272 aorta, opposite the flexures of joints, at the mouths of large branches, and at parts where the vessel lies in contact with bone. The presence of these calcareous plates in the wall of an artery diminishes its elasticity and favours aneurysmal dilata- tion. Such a vessel also is liable to be ruptured by external violence and so give rise to traumatic aneurysm. In the smaller vessels atheroma may lead to diminution or even to occlusion of the lumen—a condition which in the limbs pre- disposes to gangrene. Thrombosis is liable to occur when the plates are exposed in the lumen of the vessel by destruction of the endothelium, and this predisposes to embolism. Atheroma also interferes with the natural arrest of hgemorrhage, and by render- ing the vessels brittle, makes it difficult to secure them by ligature. In advanced cases, the accessible arteries—such as the radial, the temporal, or the femoral—may be felt as firm, tortuous cords, which are sometimes so hard that they have been aptly compared to “ pipe-stems.” The pulse is smaller and le.ss compressible than normal, and the vessel moves bodily with each pulsation. When all the vessels of a limb are affected, the distal parts are cold and wasted, and gangrene is very liable to occur. Thrombosis in Veins and Thrombo - Phlebitis. — Throm- bosis is more common in veins than in arteries, probably because the conditions which favour the formation of thrombi —slowing of the blood-stream and irritation of the endo- thelium of the vessel wall—are, owing to the conditions of the venous circulation, more I’eadily induced in veins. Venous thrombosis may occur from purely mechanical causes— as, for example, when the wall of a vein is incised, or the vessel included in a ligature, or when it is bruised or crushed by a fragment of a broken bone or by a bandage too tightly applied. Under these conditions the thrombosis is essentially a reparative process, and has already been considered in relation- to the repair of blood-vessels. In other cases thrombosis is associated with certain constitu- tional diseases—for example, gout and rheumatism; the endo- thelium of the veins undergoing changes—possibly the result of irritation by abnormal constituents in the blood—which favour the formation of thrombi. Under these various conditions the formation of a thrombus is not necessarily associated with the action of bacteria, although in any of them this additional factor may be present. The most common cause of venous thrombosis, however, is inflammation of the wall of the vein—phlebitis.