255 REPAIR OF BLOOD-VESSET.S. vessels interfering witli the circniation in the lungs and pre- venting the entrance of fresh blood into the left side of the heart; and (3) to the passage of air emboli to the cerebral blood-vessels. Prevention.—In all operations in the “ dangerous area ”—as the region of the root of the neck is called in this connection— great care must be taken not to notch or cut across any vein before it has been secured by forceps, and to apply ligatures securely and at once. Deep wounds in this region should be kept filled with an aseptic fluid, such as normal salt solution. Immediately a cut is recognised in a vein, a finger should be placed over the vein on the cardiac side of the wound, and kept there until the vessel is secured with forceps. Treatment.—Little can be done after the air has actually entered the vein beyond endeavouring to keep up the heart’s action by hypodermic injections of ether or strychnine, alcoholic enemata, and the a})i)lication of mustard or hot cloths over the chest. The head at the same time should be lowered to prevent syncope. Attempts to withdraw the air by suction, and the employment of artificial respiration, have proved futile, and are, by some, considered dangerous. Repair of Blood-Ves.sels, and the Natural Arrest OF H^EMORRHAOtE. These processes are so intimately related to one another that it is advisable to consider them together. (rt) When the wall of an artery is partially torn, or punctured, it may be repaired by the organisation of the clot which forms in the gap, and its subsequent conversion into scar tissue. This cicatrix in the vessel wall, however, is liable subsequently to be stretched by the blood pi’essure and to become the starting- point of an aneurysm. (b) When an artery is completely divided the circular fibres of the muscular coat contract, and so the lumen of the cut ends is diminished. At the same time each segment of the vessel retracts within its sheath, in virtue of the recoil of the elastic elements in its walls. The tunica intima curls up in the interior of the vessel, and the tunica adventitia collapses over the cut ends. The blood which escapes from the injured vessel fills the interstices of the tissues, and, coagulating, forms a clot which temporarily arrests the bleeding. That part of the clot which lies between the divided ends of the vessel and in the cellular tissue outside, is known as the external clot, while the portion