364 THE SKIN AND SUBCUTANEOUS TISSUE. obtained by exposure to different forms of rays have been em- ployed with so much success in this group of cases that they have superseded the older methods. The ray treatment includes the use of luminous, Rontgen, or other rays, and possesses the advantage of being comparatively painless and of being followed by the least amount of scarring and deformity. The light treatment, introduced by Finsen, of Copenhagen, consists in concentrating sunlight, or, in its absence, the electric arc light, by means of an apparatus which cuts off the heat rays, so that the blue, violet, and ultra-violet rays are allowed to act upon the diseased tissue. This is followed by an inflammatory reaction in the adjoining tissues, which results in the destruction of the tubercle bacilli. The disadvantage of the method is the small area which can be subjected to the rays at each exposure, so that the treatment is very prolonged ; a large area may require hundreds of exposures. The Rbntgen-ray treatment consists in exposing the diseased area to the rays from a Crookes’ tube of about six-inches spark, for ten or fifteen minutes daily, at a distance of from four to five inches from the tube. The healthy skin is protected by a sheet of lead foil, from which a piece is cut out corresponding to the diseased area. After a variable number of exposures inflammatory reaction takes place, and experience is required to control the effects within the desired limits. The duration of treatment is usually shorter than by the Finsen method, and the X-rays can be applied to larger areas and when there is ulceration, and also to lupus of mucous membranes. The rays given off from radium have been found to have a similar curative influence on tuberculous lesions of the skin. Multiple subcutaneous tuberculous abscesses are met with chiefly on the extremities of children. They are indolent and painless, and rarely attract attention until they break down and form abscesses, which are usually about the size of a cherry, and when these burst sinuses or ulcers result. If the overlying skin is still intact the best treatment is to excise the abscess. If the abscess has already infected the skin, each focus should be scraped, swabbed out with pure carbolic acid, and packed with gauze. Elephantiasis.—This term is applied to an excessive enlarge- ment of a part depending upon a widely spread overgrowth of the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue, and resulting from a number of causes, acting independently or in combination. The condition is observed chiefly in the extremities and in the external organs of generation. Elephantiasis from Lymphatic or Venous Obstruction.—Of this