SYPHILIS. 170 body should be selected in rotation, and scrupulous cleanliness observed so as to avoid septic irritation of the skin. As the patient dresses with traces of the ointment on the skin, the under- clothing becomes impregnated with mercury, and as it cannot be washed, it is thrown away when soiled. Inunction is un- doubtedly troublesome, but is by far the most efficient method of bringing the patient rapidly under the influence of mercury, and it is therefore specially valuable in syphilis where time has already been lost and the patient first seeks advice for an iritis or other late lesion. It is also of value in cases of cerebral syphilis, in syphilis appearing after marriage, and in cases where the symptoms persist in spite of the administration of mercury by the mouth. (3) By Intramuscular Injection.—This consists in introducing the drug by means of a hypodermic syringe into the substance of the gluteal muscles. The skin of the patient, the preparation employed, and the instrument must be sterilised. The syringe is made of glass and has a solid glass piston; the needle of platinum should be 5 cm. long. The preparation usually em- ployed consists of : metallic mercury one dram, lanolin and olive oil each two drams, and it must be warmed to allow of its passage through the needle. Five minims—containing one grain of metallic mercury—represent a dose, and this is injected into the muscles above and behind the great trochanter once a week. Four courses of ten injections are given the first year, three courses of the same number during the second and third years, and two courses during the fourth year (Lambkin). This method has been found specially useful by army surgeons who cannot rely on the men taking pills, and as the injection is only made at intervals the patient need not be admitted to hospital; unless, however, the dose is regulated with great accuracy, mercurial poisoning may result, with, it may be, serious conse- quences. We have used the method in the Lock Wards of the Royal Infirmary, and have been satisfied with the results obtained; it is, however, inferior to inunction in the rapidity with which the patient is mercurialised, and in private practice is not so convenient as administration by the mouth. (4) The Calomel Vapour Bath (fumigation) may be employed in cases with persistent skin lesions. (5) The Merco-lint Bib or Apron contains finely divided metallic mercury in its meshes, and when worn next the skin the mercury evaporates and is believed to be inhaled by the patient as well as absorbed by the skin. It may be used as an adjuvant to mercury pills when the patient is unable.