656 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Recovery is seldom impossible, but the existence of tuberculous lesions elsewhere or of septic sinuses are unfavourable factors. While tuberculous lesions in children tend to become circum- scribed, the tendency in adults is in the opposite direction. The milder forms of synovial tuberculosis may be entirely recovered from, but the more severe bone lesions tend to cause aggravated forms of joint disease which have little tendency to natural cure. The presence of bone lesions may be inferred from the mere persistence of the disease in spite of proper treatment. The locality of the disease is an important factor, the prognosis being much more unfavourable in the hip and spine than in other joints. The length of time required for complete recovery necessarily varies, but may be stated generally as being from one to three years. The patient or his friends should be informed of this, and of the risk of relapse at some future period. Treatment.—In addition to the general treatment of tuber- culosis, which must always be enforced, local measures are to be employed. These may be described under two heads—the conservative and the oirerative. Conservative treatment is almost always to be employed in the first instance, and particularly when the skin is still intact, as by it a larger proportion of cures is obtained with a smaller mortality and with better functional results than by operation. Treatment hy rest implies the immobilisation of the diseased limb until pain and tenderness have disappeared. The attitude in which the limb is immobilised should be that in which, in the event of subsequent stiffness, it will be most serviceable to the patient. Immobilisation may be secured by bandages, splints, extension, or other apparatus. Extension with weight and pulley is of great value in securing rest, especially in disease of the hip or knee; it eliminates muscular spasm, relieves pain and startings at night, and prevents abnormal attitudes of the limb. If, when the patient first comes under observation, the limb is in a deformed attitude which does not readily yield to extension, this should be corrected under an anaesthetic. The per- manently deformed attitudes due to contraction of the soft parts or to ankylosis will be considered later. Injection of Iodoform.—In hydrops and empyema of joints this is carried out on the same lines as have been described for tuberculous abscess. After the fluid contents of the joint are withdrawn, the iodoform is injected, and the injection may require to be repeated in a month or six weeks. When there is no fluid in the joint—as, for example, in white