DISLOCATIONS OF THE CLAVICLE. 451 tends to pass slightly downward, forward, and inward. The displaced end of the bone can be seen and felt as a prominence under the skin (Figs. Ill and 112), or the empty socket can be palpated, while the muscles attached to the displaced clavicle stand out in relief. The nature of the lesion can usually be demonstrated by means of the X-rays. The movements at the shoulder are always restricted, particularly in the direction of abduction above the level of the shoulder. These injuries are sometimes associated with fracture of the ribs, a complication which adds materially to the difficulties of treatment. Treatment. — Deduction is easily effected by bracing back the shoulders and replacing the bone in its socket by manipulation; but retention is invari- ably difficult, and in many cases im- possible ; even when the displacement is permanent, however, the usefulness of the arm is not necessarily impaired. Dislocation of the acromial end is best treated by placing an elastic pad, such as a Turkey sponge, over the outer end of the clavicle, and fixing it in this position by a few turns of elastic band- age carried over the shoulder and under the elbow. The forearm is placed in a sling with the elbow well supported, and the arm is bound to the side by a circular bandage (Fig. 113). When redisplacement occurs and the useful- ness of the limb is impaired, the joint surfaces may be rawed and the bones wired, with a view to ob- taining ankylosis. The sternal end may be retained in position by keeping the shoulders braced back by a figure-of-eight bandage, or by padded handkerchiefs, and making pressure over the displaced end of the bone with a sponge-pad. The forearm is supported by a sling, and the arm fixed to the side. Imperfect reduction interferes so little with the functions of the limb that operative measures are seldom required except for aesthetic reasons. It may be found useful to supplement these appliances by a shoulder-cap, especially in muscular or refractory subjects, and the patient should be confined to bed for a few days. Massage Fig. 113.—Treatment of Upward Dislocation of Acromial End of Clavicle.