553 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. to occur if the joint is repeatedly subjected to slight degrees of violence, such as are liable to occur in football or other athletic exercises—hence the name “ footballer’s knee ” sometimes applied to the condition. Treatment.—In recent and severe cases the patient must be confined to bed, and firm [U’essure ap}ilied over the joint by means of an elastic bandage and a pad of cotton wool. This may be removed once or twice a day to admit of the joint being douched with hot or cold water, and at the same time the joint should be massaged and moved to promote absorption of the effusion and prevent the formation of adhesions. ^VTlen there is chronic effusion into the joint, the best results are obtained by rest and blistering. If the patient is unable to lie u[), nias.sage should be systematically employed, and a firm elastic bandage worn. A patient who has once had a severe sprain of the knee, or who has developed the condition of “ footballer’s knee,” must give up violent forms of exercise which expose him to further injuries, otherwise the condition is liable to be aggravated and to result in permanent impairment of the stability of the joint. INJURIES OF THE PATELLA. Fracture of the patella is a com})aratively common injury in adult males. Most frecpiently it is due to mmeidar action, the patella being snapped across the lower end of the femur by a sudden and forcible contraction of the quadriceps extensor muscle taking })lace while the limb is partially flexed—as, for example, in the attempt to save one’s self from falling backward. The bone is then broken as one breaks a stick by bending it across the knee, and the line of fracture, which is transverse or slightly oblique, crosses the bone a little below its middle. Fractures produced in this way are almost never compound. The degree of displacement of the fragments depends upon the extent to which the lateral expansions of the quadriceps tendon are lacerated. As a rule they are but slightly torn, so that the separation of the fragnrents does not exceed an inch. In other cases they are widely torn, and the contraction of the quadriceps muscle is then able to sei>arate the fragments by three or four inches, and sometimes causes tilting of the up[>er fragment. The blood effused into the joint tends still further to increase the sei>aration. As the periosteum is usually torn at a level lower than the fracture, its free ends hang as a fringe from the