62 SUPPURATION. palm are called for they should be made over the metacarpal bones to avoid the digital vessels and nerves. If pus has spread under the anterior annular ligament this structure should be divided by an incision placed over the middle of the front of the wrist. Bier, of Bonn, has recently advocated the treatment of this variety of whitlow by passive congestion produced by applying a rubber band above the inflamed area, tightly enough to cause a marked congestion without at the same time ren- dering the hand cold or increasing the pain. The congestion is kept up for at least ten hours a day, and in severe cases for as long as twenty or twenty-two hours. If pus forms it is let out by a small puncture, but no drain or j^acking is used. Passive and active movements are carried out daily while the band is off. Bier claims for this treatment that the pain is markedly , diminished; that the inflammatory process is localised; that sloughing of tendons is usually prevented, and if it occurs the sloughs sejiarate quickly; and that the functional results are better than those obtained by the older method. Passive movements and massage must be commenced as early as possible and be perseveringly employed to prevent the formation of adhesions and resulting stiffness. Care must he taken, however, that these manipulations do not again light up the inflammation. Subperiosteal Wkitloiv.—This form is usually merely an extension of the subcutaneous or of the thecal variety. In some cases, however, the inflammation appears to begin in the periosteum—usually of the terminal phalanx. It may lead to necrosis of a portion of a phalanx, or even of an entire bone. This is usually recognised by the persistence of suppuration long after the acute symptoms have passed off, and by feeling bare bone with the probe. In such cases one or more of the joints are usually implicated also, and lateral mobility and grating may be elicited on manipulation. Recovery does not take place until the dead bone is removed, and the usefulness of the finger is often seriously impaired by fibrous or bony ankylosis. This may render amputation advisable when a stiff finger is likely to interfere with the patient’s occupation. Cellulitis of the forearm is usually a sequel to one of the deeper varieties of whitlow. Serious impairment of usefulness in the limb often results from sloughing of fasciae and tendons or from adhesions. In the region of the elbow-joint cellulitis is common around the olecranon process. It may originate as an inflammation of the olecranon bursa, or may invade the bursa secondarily. In exceptional cases the elbow-joint is also involved.