CLINICAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 105 attacks the toes, fingers, ears, or nose, is preceded by formica- tion, numbness, and pains in the parts to be affected. Following on this, dry gangrene supervenes, and may spread to a consider- able extent. In this country it is usually met Avith in sailors off foreign ships, whose dietary largely consists of rye bread. Trivial injuries may be the starting-2)oint, the anaesthesia produced by the ergotin preventing the patient taking notice of them. Alcoholism is a potent predisposing cause. As it is impossible to predict how far the process will spread, it is advisable to wait for the formation of a line of demarcation before operating on these cases, and then to amputate immediately above the disease. Raynaud’s Disease, or Symmetrical Gangrene, is supposed to be due to spasm of the arterioles, resulting from peripheral neuritis. It occurs oftenest in neurotic females, between the ages of eighteen and thirty, who are the subjects of uterine dis- orders, anmmia, or chlorosis. Cold may be a predisposing factor, as the disease is commonest during the winter months. The digits of both hands or the toes of both feet are simultaneously attacked, and the disease seldom spreads beyond the phalanges or deeper than the skin. The first evidence is that the fingers become cold, white, insensitive to touch and pain. These attacks of local syncope recur at varying intervals for months or even years. They last for a few minutes or even for some hours, and as they pass off the parts become hypenemic and painful. A more advanced stage of the disease is known as local asphyxia. The circulation through the fingers becomes exceed- ingly sluggish, and the parts assume a dull livid hue. There is swelling and burning or shooting pain. This may pass off in a few days, or may increase in severity, with the formation of bulla;, and end in dry gangrene. As a rule the slough which forms is comparatively small and superficial, but it may take some months to separate. The condition tends to recur in successive winters. The treatment consists in attending to the general condition of the patient, remedying any nervous or uterine disorder which may be present, and keeping the parts warm by wrapping them in cotton wool. When gangrene occurs it is treated on the same lines as other forms of dry gangrene, but if amputation is called for it is only with a vierv to removing the dead part. Gangrene occurring after Acute Fevers.—A variety of dry gangrene is sometimes met with in patients recovering from