DISEASES OF JOINTS. 644 The joint.s most frequently affected are the knee, elbow, ankle, wrist, and fingers. Several clinical types may be differentiated. (1) There is a dry polyarthritis met with in the wrist and hand, resembling chronic rheumatism and formerly described as gonorrhoeal rheumatism, which in some cases is trifling and evanescent, and in others is persistent and progressive, and results in partial or complete stiffening of the affected joints and permanent crippling of the hand. (2) The commonest type is a chronic synovitis or hydrops, in which the joint—very often the knee on one or both sides— fills with a serous or sero-fibrinous exudate. There is no thickening of the capsule and there are no inflammatory changes in the cellular tissue or skin. There is no fever or disturbance of health. The movements are free except in so far as they are restricted by the amount of fluid in the joint. It usually sub- sides in two or three weeks under rest, but may relapse. When recovery takes place it is usually complete. (3) An acute synovitis with j^eri-articular phlegmon is the most characteristic type of gonococcal affection of joints. In our experience it is most often met with in the elbow, but it occurs also in the knee and ankle. There is sudden onset of severe pain and swelling in and around the joint, with consider- able fever and disturbance of health. The slightest movement causes severe pain, and the part is very sensitive to touch. The skin is hot and tense, and in the case of the elbow may be red and fiery as in erysipelas. The deposit of fibrin on the synovial membrane and on the articular surfaces may lead to the formation of adhesions, some- times in the form of isolated bands, sometimes causing a close fibrous union between the bones, which may rapidly terminate in osseous ankylosis. (4) A suppurative arthritis, like that caused by ordinary pus microbes, is met with. It may be the result of gonococcal infection alone or of a mixed infection. Only one joint is usually infected, but the condition may be multiple. The articular cartilages are destroyed, the ends of the bones are covered with granulations, and extra-articular abscesses form. Complete osseous ankylosis usually results. The diagnosis of gonorrhoeal affections of joints is often missed, because the possibility of gonorrhoea is not suspected by the practitioner. The denial of the disease by the patient is not always to be relied upon, especially in the case of women, who may be ignorant of its presence. The chief points in the differential