413 FRACTURES. Impairment of growth and eventual shortening of the limb may result from involvement of an epiphysis in young persons (Fig. 125). Stiffness of joints is liable to follow fractures implicating articular surfaces, or it may result from chronic arthritic changes induced by the injury. True osseous ankylosis is not a common sequel of simple fractures, but locking of joints from the mechanical impediment l)i'oduced by the union of imperfectly reduced fragments, or from masses of callus, is not uncommon, especially in the region of the elbow. Wasting of the muscles from disuse, and oedema of the limb, often delay the complete restoration of function. Delayed union, want of union, and the formation of false joints will be referred to later. Treatment.—The treatment of a fracture should be com- menced as soon after the accident as possible, before the muscles become contracted and hold the fragments in abnormal positions, and before blood and serum are effused into the tissues and adhesions form. Every care must be taken during the transport of the patient that no further damage is done to the injured limb. To this end the jmrt must be secured in the best form of extemporised splint which the ingenuity of the surgeon and the surroundings of the patient can furnish, the apparatus being so designed as to control not only the broken fragments, but also the joints above and below the fracture. When the ordinary method of removing the clothes involves any risk of unduly moving the injured part, they should be slit open along the seams. The patient should be placed on a firm straw, horse-hair, or sjjring mattress, stiffened in the case of fractures of the spine, pelvis, or lower limbs, by strong wooden fracture-boards inserted between the mattress and the frame of the bed. Special mattresses constructed in four pieces, to facilitate the nursing of the patient, are sometimes used. Feather beds are to be avoided. In many cases, particularly in very muscular subjects, in restless alcoholic patients, and in those who do not bear pain well, a general anaesthetic is a valuable aid to the rapid and accurate setting of a fracture, as well as a means of rendering the diagnosis more certain. The procedure popularly known as “ setting a fracture ” consists in restoring the displaced parts to their normal position, and is spoken of technically as the reduction of the fracture.