ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 88 raised about eighteen inches and kept in this position for five minutes—till the excess of blood has left it. With the limb still raised, the ulcer with the surrounding skin is covered with a layer, about half an inch thick, of finely powdered boracic acid, and the leg, from knee to foot, excluding the sole, is enveloped in a thick layer of wood-wool wadding. This is held in position by ordinary cotton bandages, painted over with liquid starch. While the starch is drying the limb is kept elevated. With this appliance the patient may continue to woi’k, and the dressing does not require to be changed oftener than once in three or four weeks (W. G. Richardson). UnnaJs bandage—a bandage stiffened with gelatin—is useful, but somewhat inconvenient for the class of patients who usually suffer from this condition. An inflamed ulcer is treated by rest, elevation, and the application of moist antiseptic and soothing dressings. Ichthyol ointment sjDread on gauze and applied to the surrounding parts is very soothing. The gdiagedcenic ulcer is simply an aggravated form of the inflamed variety produced by some virulent organism or poison, and calls for more energetic treatment to arrest its spread, which is often rapid and destructive. The whole of the affected surface may be touched with the actual cautery at a white heat, or the surface may be painted with pure carbolic acid and a dressing of iodoform gauze applied. The irritable state of an ulcer may depend upon constitu- tional neurotic tendencies, uterine irregularities, or upon a gouty diathesis, and in treatment these must be counteracted. Locally the most satisfactory treatment is complete excision and subsequent skin-grafting. Short of this, the use of the sharp spoon, silver nitrate, or pure carbolic acid may be tried. Skin-Grafting. The term skin-grafting is applied to certain procedures in which portions of epithelium or skin are applied to raw or granulatiiig surfaces with a view to promoting the rapid forma- tion of a cicatrix which is at once strong and pliable, and Avhich does not subsequently tend to undergo contraction. The grafts may be taken from the patient himself,—on the whole the most satisfactory source,—from another person, or from one of the lower animals. The procedure is applicable to all forms of ulcers when in a