WOUNDS BY FIREAKMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 227 a full charge of shot is much more extensive than that inflicted by a single ball, the deflection of the pellets leading to a greater number of j^erforations of the intestines and more widespread laceration of solid viscera. When a charge of small shot fired at close range strikes the surface of the body obliquely, considerable portions of soft tissues may be carried away, leaving a large ragged wound, with torn margins, in which stray pellets are often embedded. Wounds by Rifle-bullets.—The vast majority of wounds inflicted by rifle-bullets are met with in the field during active warfare, and fall to be treated by military surgeons. They occasionally occur accidentally, however, during range practice, and may then come under the notice of the civil surgeon. It is only necessary here to consider the effects of modern small-bore bullets—that is, anything less than 0’350 inch in diameter, as no others are now used by civilised armies. The Lee-Enfield rifle, which is the present arm of the British army, fires a bullet U25 inch in length, 0'311 inch in diameter, and weighing about 215 grains. It is composed of a core of lead hardened with antimony, incased in an envelope of cupro- nickel alloy, and it leaves the muzzle of the gun with a velocity of 2060 feet per second. The Mauser bullet is P21 inch long, 0‘275 inch in diameter, and weighs about 175 grains. It has a steel sheath, and its muzzle velocity is 2380 feet per second. These may be taken as the types of modern military pro- jectiles. The trajectory is practically flat up to 500 yards. In destructive effect there is not much difference between them ; they will kill up to a distance of two miles. The hard covering is employed to enable the bullet to take the grooves in the rifle, and to prevent it stripping as it passes through the barrel. It also increases the penetrating power of the missile, but diminishes its “stopping” power, unless a vital part or a long bone is struck. By removing the covering from the point of the bullet, as is done in the Dum-Dum bullet, or by splitting the end, the bullet is made to expand or “mushroom,” when it strikes the body, and its stopping power is thereby greatly increased, the resulting wound being much more severe. These “ soft-nosed ” expanding bullets are to be distinguished from “ explosive ” bullets, which contain substances which detonate on impact. High-velocity conical bullets are less likely to lodge in the body than the old spherical balls. Spent shot may merely cause bruising of the surface, or they may pass through the skin and lodge in the subcutaneous tissue.