433 SPRAIN'S. structurally adapted. The main incidence of the force therefore falls upon the ligaments, which are suddenly stretched or torn. The synovial membrane also is torn, and the joint becomes filled with blood and serum. Muscles and tendons pas.sing over the joint may be stretched or torn, and their sheaths filled with serous effusion. It is not uncommon for superficial portions of bone to be torn off at the site of attachment of strong ligamentous bands or tendons, constituting a “ sprain fracture ” ; or for intra-articular cartilages to be disfdaced, as in the knee. Clinical Features.—The injury is accompanied by intense sickening [)ain, and this may persist for a considerable time. At first it is aggravated by moving the joint, but if the move- ment is continued it tends to pass off. The particular ligaments involved may be recognised by eliciting tenderness on making pressure over them, or by putting them on the stretch by passively moving the joint. In this way a sprain may often be diagnosed from a fracture. The effusion of blood and serum into the joint and into the tissues around gives rise to swelling and discoloration, and there is tenderness on pressing the articular .surfaces together. Fluid effused into tendon sheaths often produces a peculiar creaking sensation, which may be mistaken for the crepitus of fracture. In sprains, the bony points about the joint retain their normal relations to one another, and this usually enables these injuries to be diagnosed from dislocations, and, as a rule, from fractures. When the swelling is great, it is often necessary to have recourse to the Rbntgen rays to make certain that there is no fracture or dislocation. Prognosis.—Stiffness, lasting for a longer or shorter time, follows most sprains, but may be largely prevented by proper treatment. In old and rheumatic persons changes of the nature of arthritis deformans are liable to supervene, interfering greatly with movement. While suppuration is rare, tuberculous disease not infrequently dates its onset from a sprain. Treatment.—Sprains are best treated by early massage and movement, combined with firm elastic pressure. In the case of the ankle, for example, massage should be commenced at once, the part being gently stroked upwards. The process is painful for the first few minutes, but soon cea.ses to be so, and becomes soothing to the patient. The rubbing is continued for from fifteen to twenty minutes, the patient being encouraged to move the toes and ankle. A moderately firm elastic bandage or a few strips of adhesive plaster are then applied, care being taken not VOL. I—28