455 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. The head leaves the capsule through the rent made in its lower part, and, either from a continuation of the force or from contraction of the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove, particularly the great pectoral, passes inwards under cover of the biceps and coraco-brachialis till it comes to rest against the anterior surface of the neck of the scapula, just below the coracoid process. The anatomical neck of the humerus presses against the anterior edge of the glenoid, and there is frequently an in- dentation fracture of the head of the humerus where the two bones come into contact (F. M. Caird). The .subscapularis is bruised or torn, the muscles inserted into the great tuberosity are greatly stretched, or the tuberosity itself may be avulsed, allowing the long tendon of the biceps to slip outwards, where it may form an impediment to reduction. The circumflex nerve is often bruised or torn, and the head of the humerus is liable to press injuriou.sly on the axillary nerves and vessels. The clinical features common to all dislocations are prominent, although Dugas’ symptom is not constant. Treatment.—The guiding principle in the reduction of these dislocations is to make the head of the bone retrace the course it took in leaving the socket. The main obstacles to reduction being muscular contraction and the entanglement of the head with tendons, ligaments, or bony points, appropriate means must be taken to counteract each of these factors. A general aniesthetic is an invaluable aid to reduction, and should always be given unless there is some reason for with- holding it. It is specially indicated in strong, muscular subjects, and in nervous patients who do not bear pain well, and particularly when the dislocation has existed for a day or two. In quite recent cases, however, the surgeon may sometimes succeed in replacing the bone by taking advantage of a temporary faintness, or by engaging the patient’s attention -with other matters while he carries out the appropriate manipulations. When an anaesthetic is employed the patient should be laid on a mattress on the floor, or on a narrow, firm table; otherwise he should be seated on a chair. KocheTs method is suitable for the great majority of cases of sub-coracoid dislocation. (1) The elbow is firmly pressed against the side, and the forearm flexed to a right angle. The surgeon grasps the wrist and elbow and firmly rotates the arm outward (Fig. 116) till distinct resistance is felt and the deltoid becomes more prominent. In this way the rent in the lower part of the capsule is made to gape, and the head of the humerus rolls out- wards till it lies opposite the opening, rotation taking place