613 RICKETS. re.sult in the entire disappearance of areas of bone, leaving a membrane which dimples like thin cardboard under the pressure of the finger—a condition known as craniotabes. Changes in the Skeleton as a Whole.—The distribution and nature of the changes in the skeleton vary widely in different cases, being influenced by the period of onset, the severity and duration of the disease, and the conditions under which the child is placed. In Children before they are able to walk.—The fontanelles and sutures of the skull remain open until the end of the second year or longer, and the frontal and parietal eminences are unduly prominent. There is sometimes hydrocephalus, and the whole head is characteristically enlarged. The jaws are altered so that while the upper jaw is contracted into the shajje of a V, the lower jaw is square instead of rounded, and when the teeth erupt they do not opjjose one another. In the thorax the chief feature may be the beading at the costo-chondral junctions, especially of the fifth and sixth ribs, or its walls may be con- tracted, especially if the respiration is interfered with as a result of bronchial catarrh or adenoids. The contraction may take the form of a vertical groove on each side, or of a horizontal groove at the level of the upper end of the xiphisternum; when the sternum and cartilages form a projection in front the deformity is known as “ pigeon-breast.” The spine may be curved backwards—kyphosis—throughout its whole extent or only in one part of the column; or it may be curved to one or other side—scoliosis. In the limbs, the prominent features are the deficient growth in length of the long bones, the enlargements at the epiphysial junctions, and the bending, and occasional greenstick fracture, of the shafts. At this stage the curves depend on the attitude of the child while sitting or being carried—for example, the arm bones become bent in children who paddle about the floor with the aid of their arms; and in a child who lies on its back with the lower limbs everted, the weight of the limb may lead to curvature of the neck of the femur—coxa vara. The clavicle or humerus may sustain greenstick fracture from the child being lifted by the arms; the femur by a fall. From the extreme laxity of the ligaments, the joints can be moved beyond the normal limits, and the child is often observed to twist its limbs into abnormal attitudes. In Children who are able to %valk.—In these children the most important deformities met with occur in the spine, pelvis, and lower extremities, and result for the most part from