DISEASES OF BONE. 582 regarded as an accompaniment or as a result of different diseased conditions, rather than as a separate entity. The term caries is employed to indicate any diseased process associated with crumbling away of the framework of a bone. It may be considered as the equivalent of ulceration in soft parts. The carious process is always preceded by the formation of granulation tissue in the marrow or periosteum and the erosion of the bone in contact with it. The subsequent caseation or liquefaction of the granulation tissue results in destruction of the trabecular framework of the bone, whereby it is rendered soft and friable. Clinically, carious bone yields a soft grating sensation under the pressure of the probe. The student should regard caries, not as a disease in itself, but as a result of different diseases, and should therefore always add a qualifying adjective, such as suppurative, tuberculous, or syphilitic, which will indicate its nature. The term dry caries (caries sicca) is applied to that variety which is unattended with suppuration; it is illustrated by the changes met with in the articular surfaces in certain forms of tuberculous disease of joints. Necrosis is the term applied to the death of a tangible portion of bone, and the dead portion when separated is called a sequestrum. The term exfoliation is sometmies employed to indicate the separation or throwing off of a superficial sequestrum. Necrosis is regarded as the equivalent of sloughing or gangrene in soft parts, and, like caries, is to be looked upon as the result of disease and not as a disease in itself. Bacterial Diseases. The most important diseases in this group are the pyogenic and the tuberculous. It is convenient also to include the lesions of syphilis, although the causal organism has not yet been conclusively demonstrated. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone.—These diseases result from infection with pyogenic organisms, and are most commonly met with while the growth of the skeleton is in active progress. The organisms reach their seat of action in the bones by way of the blood-stream, having entered the circulation either from a pre-existing focus of disease in another part of the body, or through the skin or one of the mucous surfaces. In certain cases the infection takes place directly, either through a wound or from a contiguous area of disease. They include not only all the conditions which run an acute course and are attended with