GENU VALGUM. 735 are directed to undoing the deformity. Of the numerons forms of apparatus devi.sed for knock - knee, the sijuplest consists of a liglit padded splint applied on the oxiter side of each limb, extending from the iliac crest to three inches beyond the foot. The splint is fixed above and l)eloAV by bandages, and the projecting knee is drawn towards it by a few turns of elastic webbing. In the mildest ca.ses they are only worn when the child is indoors. In pronounced cases these splints are only removed for purpo.ses of massage and bathing. A modified form of Thomas’ knee-splint is efficacious, but rccpiires careful supervision. A sim})lcr plan of treatment, specially applicable to hospital out-patients, is to straighten the limbs as far as possible under chloroform and envelop them in plaster of Paris. The procedure is repeated at intervals of three weeks until the legs are quite straight. Whatever jilan is adopted, it must be persevered with for at least six months, until the bones have become rigid. If the child is approaching the age of five or six Ijefore it comes under treatment, or if the deformity does not yield to treatment by splints, it is better to straighten the limb by osteotomy, taking precautions, however, to prevent relapse of the deformity until the softness of the bones has entirely disappeared. In adolescent Jinochlcnee the conditions are different from those obtaining in the child. In the majority of cases the patient seeks advice because of the deformity alone, but in addition he may complain of pain after exertion, especially at the inner side of the epiphysial junctions, of being easily tired, and of incapacity for any laborious occupation, or even for one involving much standing. In many cases the bones are large and coarse and badly formed, and there is frequently an obtuse or pointed spinous process projecting downwards froin the inner tuberosity of the tibia. In bilateral adolescent knock-knee, the patient abducts the thigh at each step and rotates the limb outwards at the hip, so as to di.sguise the deformity, and to allow the projecting knees to pass each other more easily. He u.sually sujhnates or inverts the foot, aiid turns the toes inwards, with the object of bringing the whole length of the outer border of the sole into contact with the ground. Flat-foot is exceptional. The boots u.sually show evidence of the toes being turned in, arul they are more worn along the outer than along the inner border of the sole and heel. Splints and apparatus — e.specially such as allow of the