201 EPITHELIAL TIlMOUKS. is in consequence very distressing to the patient. In successful cases, the tumour decreases in size, becomes less painful, and may eventually disappear. This result is said to have been obtained in 16 per cent, of the cases subjected to the treatment, the best results being obtained in spindle-celled tumours (Coley). The effect of the toxins is to cause degeneration of the cellular elements of the growth, which then become absorbed. Inflamma- tion and sloughing, when they occur, are septic complications which ought to be avoided. Should no improvement manifest itself after a three weeks’ course of the treatment, it should be abandoned. Encouraging results in inoperable cases have also been obtained by the use of the Rontgen rays. Epithelial Tumours. An excessive and erratic growth of epithelium constitutes the essential and distinguishing feature of the tumours in this class. The innocent forms are the papilloma and the adenoma; the malignant, the carcinomata or cancers. Papilloma.—Papillomata are tumours which project from a cutaneous or mucous surface, and consist of a central axis of vascular fibrous tissue rvith a covering of epithelium which resembles that of the surface from which the tumour grows. In the papillomata of the skin—commonly known as ivarts—the covering consists of epidermis; in those growing from mucous surfaces it con.sists of the epithelium covering the mucous membrane. When the surface epithelium projects as filiform processes, the tumour is called a villous pajoilloma, the best- known example of which is met with in the urinary bladder. Papillomatous growths are also met with in the larynx, in the ducts of the breast—the so-called duct pai>illoma—and in the interior of certain cystic tumours of the breast and of the ovary. Although papillomata are innocent, when subjected to irritation they may become the starting-point of cancer. The clinical features and treatment of the various forms of papillomata are considered under the individual tissues and organs. Adenoma.—An adenoma is a tumour constructed on the type of, and growing in connection with, a secreting gland. In the substance of such glands as the mamma, parotid, thyroid, and prostate, adenomata are met with as encapsulated tumours. When they originate from the glands of the skin or of a mucous membrane, they tend to project from the surface, and sometimes form pedunculated tumours or polypi.