ACTION OF THE BACILLUS ON THE TISSUES. 14.5 caseation. This implies tlie conversion of tlie tissue into an amor})hous, pale-yellow or whitish material resemlhing cheese. Lime salts may subsequently be deposited in this material—a change known as calcification. The recognition of the characteristic elements above described, with or without caseation, is usually sufticient evhlence of the tuberculous nature of any portion of tissue examined for diagnostic purposes. The recognition of the bacillus itself by appropriate methods of staining makes the diagnosis a certainty; but as it is by no means easy to identify the organism in many forms of surgical tuberculosis, it may be necessary to have re- course to experimental inoculation. The changes subsequent to the formation of tuberculous granulation tissue are liable to many variations. It must always be borne in mind that although the bacilli have effected a lodgment and have inaugurated disease, the relation between them and the tissues remains one of mutual antagonism; which of them is to gain and keep the upper hand in the conflict depends on their relative powers of resistance. If the tissues prevail, there ensues a process of repair. In the immediate vicinity of the area of infection young connective tissue, and later, fibrous tissue, is formed. This may entirely replace the tuberculous tissue and bring about repair—a fibrous cicatrix remaining to mark the scene of the previous contest. Scars of this nature ai’e not infrequently discovered at the apex of the lung after death in patients who have at one time suffered from pulmonary phthisis. Under other circumstances the tuber- culous tissue winch has undergone caseation, or even calcification, is only encapsulated by the new fibrous tissue, like a foreign body. Although this may be regarded as a victory for the tissues, the cure, if such it may be called, is not necessarily a permanent one, for at any subsequent period of life, if the part affected is di.sturbed by injury or through some other influence, the encapsulated tubercle may again become active and get the upper hand of the tissues, and there results a relapse or recrudescence of the disease. If, however, at the inauguration of the tuberculous disease the bacilli prevail, the infection tends to spread into the tissues surrounding those originally infected, and more and more tuberculous granulation tissue is formed. Finally the tuber- culous tissue breaks down and liquefies, resulting in the forma- tion of a cold abscess. In their struggle with the tissues, tubercle bacilli receive considerable su[)port anrl assistance from any pyogenic organisms which may be present. A tuberculous VOL. I—10