144 TUBERCULOSIS. determined by the depression of the tissues resulting from an injury of that part. Statistics show that the largest number of cases of surgical tuberculosis are met with between the ages of five and fifteen. At the same time, this apparent excessive frequency during the early years of life is partly accounted for by the correspondingly larger number of individuals alive during these years. Stated in another way, tuberculosis may be comparatively rare above the age of seventy, but so are people. It must be emphasised that tuberculosis may be met with at any period of life ; the mere fact that a patient is up in years is not a sufficient reason for excluding the possibility of a given lesion being tuberculous. In children and young adults surgical tuberculosis is not only pre-eminently curable, but shows a marked tendency towards spontaneous recovery if the patient is placed under favourable conditions. The reparative process is an exceedingly slow one, and the treatment demands patience and persever- ance alike from the patient and from the surgeon. In patients past the prime of life, however, there is little tendency to natural recovery from tuberculous affections, and small prospect of any but the most radical operations effecting a cure of the disease. While it is a fact that males are, on the whole, more often affected than females, the influence of sex in predisposing to tuberculosis is not certain. Changes in the Tissues following upon the successful Lodgment of Tubercle Bacilli.—The action of the bacillus on the tissues is twofold : on the one hand, by its irritation it induces tissue reaction in the form of proliferative changes and leucocyte infiltration; and, on the other, it causes in the cells around degenerative changes which ultimately result in their death. The area of tissue infected becomes the seat of a chronic inflammation, attended with the formation of a friable, gelatinous granulation tissue. This may be collected into circumscribed nodules or “tubercles,” or it may be ill-defined, diffuse, and infiltrating. This granulation tissue presents characteristic histological elements—for example, large cells, often with more than one nucleus, spoken of as endothelioid cells; and still larger cells, known as giant cells. There are also large numbers of small round cells which resemble the leucocytes of the blood and lymph. It is further characteristic of tuberculous granulation tissue that it tends to undergo cei’tain forms of degeneration and death, of which the best known is