DEFORMITIES OF THE FINGERS. 771 Webbing of Fingers (Syndactylism).—Congenital webbing or fusion of the fingers may be associated with poly dactyl ism or • with congenital hypertrophy, and, like other digital deformities, may affect several members of the same family. The degree of fusion ranges from a web of skin joining the fingers to a growing together of all the tissues. The participation of the bones is well shown in skiagrams. The separation of webbed fingers by surgical means must be considered in relation to the conditions present in each individual case. If an ojieration is decided upon it should be deferred until the age of live or six years. In the simplest cases it is only necessary to divide the web and to unite the cut edges of skin along each finger by sutures, a Thiersch graft being inserted into the angle between the fingers. An operation in which the skin is dissected up in the form of flaps may be required. Congenital Hypertrophy of the Fingers.—This is a form of local giantism affecting one or more digits, and in- volving all the tissues equally, or particularly the adipose tissue. The Anger is usually of abnormal size at birth and continues to grow more rapidly than the others, and it may also come to deviate from its proper axis be removed, as it interferes with the use of the other digits Trigger Finger.—This is an acquired condition in which move- ment of the finger, either in flexion or extension, is arrested, and is only completed with the assistance of the other hand. The obstacle to movement is usually overcome with a jerk or snap suggesting a resemblance to the trigger of a gun or the blade of a clasp-knife. The commonest cause is a disproportion between the size of the tendon and its sheath, such as may result from a localised thickening of the tendon. Recovery usually takes place under massage and passive movements. Drop or Mallet Finger has been described with injuries of the fingers. Frc. 313.—Congenital Hypertrop'iy of Thumb and Index-Finger in a child set 6. Such a finger should