244 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJUEIES. those resulting from septic absorption that it is difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish between them, and there can be little doubt that many deaths have been attributed to shock which were really due to acute septictemia. The conditions formerly known as “delayed shock” and “prostration with excitement ” are now generally recognised to be due to septic absorption. Question of Operating during Shock.—Most authorities agree that operations should only be undertaken during profound shock when they are imperatively .demanded for the arrest of haemorrhage, the prevention of septic infection of serous cavities, or for the relief of pain which is producing or intensifying the condition. Prevention of Operation *S'/toc/c.—About half an hour before a prolonged and severe operation, the patient .should receive a nutrient enema of brandy and peptonised meat juice, and a hypodermic injection of grain of strychnine. The ojierating- room must be warm—not less than 70° F.—and the patient should be wrapped in cotton wool and blankets, and surrounded by hot-bottles. All lotions used must be warm (100° F.); and the operation should be completed as speedily and as blood- lessly as possible. With a view to preventing the passage of exciting afferent impulses Crile advocates “ blocking ” of the nerves, by the injection of a 1 per cent, solution of cocaine or eucaine into their substance on the proximal side of the field of operation. Treatment.—A patient suffering from shock should be })laced in the recumbent position with the foot of the bed raised to facilitate the return circulation in the large veins, and so to increase the flow of blood to the brain. His bed should be placed near a large fire, and the patient himself surrounded by cotton wool and blankets and hot-bottles. If the patient has lost much blood, the limbs should be wrapped in cotton wool and firmly bandaged from below upwards, to conserve as much of the circulating -blood as possible in the trunk and head. As soon as he has been put to bed, about a pint of normal saline solution (one dram of sodium chloride to a pint of boiled water) should be injected into the rectum. Ten to fifteen minims of adrenalin chloride (1 in 1000) may with advantage be added to the saline fluid. The injection should be repeated every two hours until the circulation is sufficiently re.stored. Cardiac stimulants in the form of sti’ychnine (^T- to grain), digitaline (y^ gra.in), or strophanthine (y-yy to grain) may be admini-stered hypodermically if necessary, but care must