ANGIOMATA. 281 tageou.s to close eacli incision with a single horse-hair stitch. After operation the patient should be confined to Ijed for not less than three weeks. The treatment of the complications of varix has already been considered. Angiomata. 1 Tumours of blood-vessels may be divided, according to the nature of the vessels of which they are composed, into the capillary, the venous, and the arterial angiomata. Capillary Angioma. The most common form of capillary angioma is the nsevus or congenital telangiectasis. Nsevus.—A niBvus is a collection of dilated capillaries, the afferent arterioles and the efferent venules of which often share in the dilatation. As is the case with other tumours, little is known regarding the etiology of mevi beyond the fact that they are of congenital origin. They are often not noticed until the child is some days old, but attention is usually drawn to them within a fortnight of birth. For practical pur})Oses the most useful classification of nsevi is into the cutaneous, the sub- cutaneous, and the mixed forms. The cutaneous nmvus, “mother’s mark,” or “port-wine stain,” consists of an aggregation of dilated capillaries in the substance of the skin. On stretching the skin the vessels may be seen to form a fine network, or to run in leashes parallel to one another. A dilated arteriole or a vein winding about among the capillaries may sometimes be detected. These mevi may occur on any part of the body, Imt they are most frequently met with on the face. They may be multiple, and vary greatly in size, some being no bigger than a pin-head, while others cover nearly half the surface of the body. In colour they may present every tint from purple to brilliant red ; in the majority there is a considerable dash of blue, especially in cold M'eather. Unlike the other forms of mevi, the cutaneous variety .shows little tendency to di.sappear, and it is especially persistent when associated with hypertrophy of the skin—ncevoid mole. As the mevoid tissue cannot be removed without producing a scar, which in most cases is even more disfiguring than the naivus, treatment is very unsatisfactory, and is of no avail except 1 In tlie description of angiomata we have followed the teaching of the late John Duncan.