INJUIIIES OF THE FINGERS. 503 deformity is so characteristic, that a detailed description is unnecessary. There is good reason to believe that the injury commonly described as “ incomplete dislocation ” or “ sub-luxation of the metacarpal of the thumb backward ” is really a fracture of the anterior portion of the base of the bone—an injury now known as Bennett’s fracture (p. 504). Sprain of the wrist is a common injury and results from a fall on the hand or a twisting form of violence. The marked swelling which rapidly ensues may render it difficult to dis- tinguish a sprain from the more severe injuries which are liable to result from similar causes—Codes’ fracture, separation of the lower radial epiphysis, and dislocation of the wrist. In a sprain the normal relations of the styloid processes and other bony points about the wrist are unaltered, and there is no radial deviation of the hand, as in Codes’ fracture. The most marked swelling is over the line of the articulation on tlie anterior and posterior aspects of the joint. There is usually some effusion into the sheaths of the tendons passing over the joint, and in some cases on moving the fingers a peculiar creaking, which may simulate crepitus, can be elicited. There is marked tenderness on making pressure over the line of the joint, as wed as over one or other of the lateral ligaments, depending upon which has been overstretched or torn. Movements which tend to put the damaged ligaments on the stretch also cause pain. It has to be borne in mind, however, that in many cases of Codes’ fracture there is extreme tenderness on pressing over the ulnar styloid and external lateral ligament, as these structures are frequently injured as wed as the radius, but the point of maximum pain and tenderness is over the seat of fracture of the radius. The treatment consists in the early employment of massage and movement, supplemented by alternate hot and cold douches, on the same lines as in other sprains. Injuries of the Fingers. Fractures.—Fractures of the metacarpals of the four inner fingers are comparatively common. When they result from direct violence, such as a crush between two heavy objects, they are often multiple and compound. Indirect violence, acting in the long axis of the bone and increasing its natural curve, such as a fad or a blow on the knuckle, as in striking with the closed fist, usually produces an oblique fracture about the middle of