FRAC'/rURES. 403 are usually associated with some form of external violence, but it is believed that in the majority of cases the foetus is the subject of some constitutional disease which weakens the bones, such as rickets or syphilis. Traumatic Fractures. Traumatic fractures are u.sually the result of a severe force acting from without, although sometimes they are produced by powerful muscular contraction. When the bone gives way at the point of impact of the force, the violence is said to be direct, and a “ fracture by compression ” results, the line of fracture being as a rule trans- verse. The soft parts overlying the fracture are more or less damaged according to the weight and shape of the impinging body. Fracture of both bones of the leg from the passage of a wheel over the limb, fracture of the shaft of the ulna in warding ofi' a stroke aimed at the head, and fracture of a rib from a kick, are illustrative examples of common fractures by direct violence. When the force is transmitted to the seat of fracture from a distance, the violence is said to be indirect, and the bone is broken by “torsion” or by “bending.” In such cases the bone gives way at its weakest jioint, and the line of fracture tends to be oblique. Thus both bones of the leg are frequently broken by a person jumping from a height and landing on the feet, the tibia breaking in its lower third, and the fibula at a higher level. Fracture of the clavicle in its middle third, or of the radius at its lower end, from a fall on the outstretched hand, are common accidents produced by indirect violence. The ribs also may be broken by indirect violence, as when the chest is crushed antero-posteriorly, the bones bending beyond the limits of their elasticity, and giving way near their angles. In such fractures the soft parts do not suffer by the violence causing the fracture, but they may be injured by displacement of the fragments. In fractures by muscular action the bone is broken by “traction” or “teaiing.” The sudden and violent contraction of a muscle may tear off an epiphysis, such as the head of the fibula, the anterior-superior iliac spine, or the coronoid process of the ulna; or a bony process may be separated, as, for example, the tuberosity of the os calcis, the coracoid process of the scapula, or the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Long bones also may be broken by muscular action. The clavicle