652 DISEASES OF JOINTS. clinical picture, or it may not develop till long after the original disease has subsided. It may develop so insidiously that it may not attract attention until it has attained considerable size, especially when associated with disease of the spine, pelvis, or hip. The abscess presents itself at definite situations in relation to the different joints, determined by the anatomical relationships of the capsule and synovial membrane to the surrounding tissues. When infected, the bursae and tendon sheaths in the vicinity may influence the direction of spread of the abscess and the situation of resulting sinuses. When left to burst of itself, or when opened and allowed to become infected with pyogenic bacteria, there is not only the risk of aggravation of the disease and persistent suppuration, but there is a greater liability to general tuberculosis. When sinuses form, they are often so tortuous that it is difficult to pass a probe down to the focus from which the abscess took its origin. Infection of the lymphatic glands of the limb is exceptional as a result of joint disease, but may follow upon tuberculous infection of the skin around the orifice of a sinus. The occurrence of pyrexia in tuberculous joint disease usually indicates suppuration, or the dissemination of the tubercle—for examjfie, to the lungs or membranes of the brain. A slight rise of temperature in the evening may be induced in quiescent joint lesions by injury or by movement of the joint under chloroform, or by such extra exertion as a railway journey. The develop- ment and spread of an abscess may also be attended with an evening rise of temperature; but when the abscess is quiescent the temperature usually remains normal. A carefully taken temperature chart, therefore, may afford useful information as to the formation or spread of an abscess. When sinuses have formed and become septic, there may be a diurnal variation in the temperature of the type known as hectic fever (Fig. 6). Relative Frequency of Tuberculous Disease in different Joints. —Hospital statistics lead us to place the various joints in the following order of frequency:—Spine, knee, hip, ankle and tarsus, elbow, wrist, shoulder. It is probable that the frequency in the joints of the upper extremity is understated because the subjects thereof are often treated as out-patients. Clinical Types op Tuberculous Joint Disease. Tuberculous hydrops is nearly always the result of a purely synovial lesion, and its outstanding feature is the accumula-