TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 645 diagnosis from acute rheumatism are, that the gouorrhmal affection is more often monarticular, has little tendency to wander from joint to joint, and its progre.ss is not appreciably influenced by salicylates, althoirgh these drugs may relieve the pain ; the fever is not so high, and there is greater tendency to rapid stiffening of the affected joint. The conclusive j^oiiit is the recognition of a gonorrhceal discharge or of pus threads in the urine. The 'prognosis should always be guarded, because the disease may prove persistent or may relapse, and the patient may be laid up for weeks or months, and may finally be crippled in one or in several joints. The treatment—-besides that of the urethral disease or of the ophthalmia—consists in rest until all pain and sensitiveness have disappeared. Salicylates or iodides may relieve suffering but are not curative. The pain is usually greatly relieved by passive congestion by Bier’s method. The joint is immobilised by means of a splint, or by cotton wool and an elastic bandage. Extension is employed in the case of the hip. During the acute stages, great relief may be obtained from very hot baths, to which turpentine and black soap may be added. Konig recommends the use of tincture of iodine to the extent of blistering. In the persistent dry form hot-air baths may be employed. In hydrops, when the fluid persists, the joint should be tapped, the fluid withdrawn, and about one ounce of a I per cent, solution of protargol injected; the patient should be warned of the marked reaction which follows upon the injection. The purulent form is to be treated by incision and drainage. After all symptoms have settled down, but not till then for fear of exciting relapse or metastasis, the joint may be massaged and exercised. Stiffness from adhesions is most intractable, and may, in spite of every attention, terminate in ankylosis. Forcible breaking down of adhesions under amesthesia is not to be recommended. Ankylosis of the elbow is best treated by resection of the joint. Tuberculous Diseases. Tuberculous diseases of joints result from bacillary infection of the synovial membrane or of the marrow of one of the adjacent bones, under conditions similar to those which have been described as occurring in tuberculous disease of bone.