434 INJURIES OF JOINTS. to constrict the limb and so interfere with the circulation. The massage is repeated once or twice a day, the sittings lasting for about half au hour. The patient should be encouraged to move the joint from the first, beginning with the movements which put least strain upon the damaged ligaments, and gradually increasing the range. In the course of a few days he is en- couraged to walk, or cycle, or otherwise to use the joint without subjecting it to strain. Alternate hot and cold douching, followed by massage, is also useful. Complete rest and prolonged immobilisation are to be condemned. Traumatic Dislocations. A dislocation or luxation is a persistent displacement of the opposing ends of the bones forming a joint. We are here concerned only with such dislocations as immediately follow upon injury. Those which are congenital or which result from disease will be studied later. Causes.—The majority of dislocations are the result of indirect violence, the more movable bone acting as a lever, on a fulcrum furnished by the natural check to movement in the form of ligament, bone, or muscle. It is in this way that most dislocations of the shoulder, hip, and elbow are produced. At the moment the violence is applied, the muscles are relaxed or otherwise taken at a disadvantage, so that the joint is for the time being deprived of their support. The joint is moved beyond its physiological range, and the end of one of the bones being brought to bear upon the capsule, tears it, and passes through the rent thus made. The muscles then contract reflexly and pull the head of the bone into an unnatural position outside the capsule. The position assumed will depend upon such factors as the direction of the force, the shape of the joint, the position of the limb at the time of the accident, and the relative strength of the different groups of muscles acting upon the bone which is displaced. Violence applied directly to the joint is a much less frequent cause of dislocation. In this way, however, the knee-joint may be dislocated, one bone being driven past the other—for example, by a kick from a horse ; or the acromio-clavicular joint by a blow on the shoulder. Mtiscular contraction is not often the sole cause of disloca- tion, although, as has been mentioned, it plays an important role in the production of the majority of these injuries. The shoulder, lower jaw, and ]>atella are, however, not infrequently