44 INFLAMMATION. pain is experienced by the patient. That the area of tenderness corresponds to the area of inflammation, is almost an axiom of surgery. Pain and tenderness are due to the local irritation of nerve filaments, rendered all the more sensitive by the abnormal conditions of their blood-supply. Much value attaches to the character of the pain as described by the patient. Thus inflammations of the skin cause pain of a burning or itching character; the pain of inflammation in dense tissues like periosteum or bone, or in encapsuled organs, is described as dull, boring, or aching. When inflammation is passing on to suppuration the pain assumes a throbbing character, and as the pus reaches the surface, or “points,” as it is called, sharp, darting, or lancinating pains are experienced. Inflammation involving a nerve-trunk may cause a boring or a tingling pain; while the implication of a serous membrane such as the pleura or 2)eritoneum gives rise to pain of a sharp stabbing character. Pain may be referred to parts at a distance from the actual seat of the inflammation; for example, pain in the knee is a common symptom of disease in the hip-joint. Interference with the function of the inflamed part is always present, varying in degree with the severity of the inflammation and its seat. An inflamed joint, for example, may have its range of movement diminished or may be absolutely fixed; an inflamed eye may be hypersensitive to light or may be rendered blind. Constitutional Disturbances.—Under the term constitutional disturbances are included the presence of fever or elevation of temperature; certain changes in the pulse rate and the respira- tion ; gastro-intestinal and urinary disturbances; and derange- ments of the central nervous system. These are all due to the absorption of toxins into the general circulation. Fever.—^The nature and significance of alterations in the temperature in inflammatory and other pathological conditions have already been referred to (p. 23). The pulse is always increased in frequency during inflammation and usually varies directly with the height of the temperature. In the early stages, while the temperature is rising, it may be small and firm during the height of the inflammation it is full and bounding; and if the process be long continued it tends to become small, soft, and weak, or even dicrotic and irregular. Respiration is more active during the progress of an inflammation. Bronchial catarrh is common, apart froin any antecedent local respiratory disease. Gastro-intestinal disturbances are usually present in the