IIG BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. three hours), and in giving plenty of fluid nourishment. It is worthy of note that the anti-streptococcic serum has proved of less value in the treatment of erysipelas than might have been expected in view of the fact that the disease is due to the action of a streptococcus. It is not necessary to isolate cases of erysipelas, jrrovided the usual precautions against carrying infection from one patient to another are rigidly carried out. Diphtheeia. Diphtheria is an acute infectious disease due to the action of a specific bacterium, the bacillus diphtherioe or Klebs-Luffler bacillus. The commonest site of infection is the fauces and soft palate, where at first the effects are local, and consist in the formation of a false membrane composed of necrosed epithelium, fibrin, leucocytes, and red blood corpuscles. As the disease progresses, a general systemic toxin iroisoning, associated with great muscular weakness, a tendency to syncope, and albuminuria, ensues. After the acute symptoms have passed off, various localised paralyses, affecting j^articularly the nerves of the palatal and orbital muscles, develop in from 15 to 20 per cent, of cases. The disease is usually transmitted from one patient to another, but it may be contracted from cats, fowls, or through the milk of infected cows. Cases have occurred in which the surgeon has carried the infection from one patient to another through neglect of antiseptic precautions. Clinical Features.—The incubation period varies from two to seven days. On the first or second day of the disease redness and swelling of the mucous membrane of the pharynx, tonsils, and palate are well marked, and small, circular greenish or grey patches of false membrane begin to appear. These rapidly increase in area and thickness, till they coalesce and form a complete covering to the parts. In the pharynx the false membrane is less adherent to the surface than it is in the air-passages. The lymphatic glands behind the angle of the jaw enlarge and become tender, and may suppurate from superadded infection. There is pain on swallowing, and often ear-ache; and the j^atient speaks with a nasal accent. He becomes weak and anaemic, and loses his appetite. There is often albuminuria. Leucocy- tosis is usually well marked before the injection of antitoxin ; after the injection there is usually a diminution in the number