ACTINOMYCOSIS. 135 the skill, the organisms gaining access through an abrasion, and spreading by the lormation of new nodules in the same way as tuberculosis. The region of the mouth and jaws is one of the commonest sites of surgical actinomycosis. Infection takes }>lace, as a rule, along the side of a carious tooth, and spreads to the lower jaw. A swelling is slowly and insidiously developed, and when the loose connective tissue of the neck becomes infiltrated, the S[>read is more rajiid. The whole region becomes infiltrated and swollen, and the skin ultimately gives way and free suiipuration occurs, resulting in the formation of sinuses. The characteristic greenish-grey or yellow granules are seen in the pus, and when examined microscopically reveal the colonies of actinomyces. Less frequently the upper jaw becomes afl'ected, and the disease may spread to the base of the skull and Ijrain. The vertebrm may become involved by infection taking place through the pharynx or oesojihagus, and leading to a condition simulating tuberculous disease of the spine. When it inq)licates the inte.stinal canal and its acces.sory glands, the lungs, pleura and bronchial tubes, or the brain, the disease is not amenable to surgical treatment. Differential Diagnosis.—The conditions likely to be mistaken for surgical actinomycosis are sarcoma, tubercle, and .syphili.s. In the early stages the differential diagnosis is exceedingly difficult. In many cases it is only possible when sui)})uration has occurred and the fungus can be demonstrated. The slow destruction of the affected tis.sue by suppuration, the absence of pain, tenderness, and redness simulate tuberculosis, but the absence of glandular involvement may serve to distinguish it. Syi>hilitic lesions are liable to be mistaken for actinomycosis, all the more that in both diseases improvement follows the administration of iodides. When it affects the lower jaw, in its early stages, actinomycosis may closely simulate a })eriosteal sarcoma. The recognition of the fungus is the crucial point in diagnosis. Prognosis. — Spontaneous cure rarely occurs. When the disease implicates internal organs it is almost always fatal. On external parts the destructive process gradually spreads, and the patient eventually succumbs to superadded septic infection. When from its situation the primary focus admits of removal the prognosis is more favourable. Treatment.—The only surgical treatment to be considered is the early and free removal of the affected tissues. After