612 DISEASES OF BONE. The periosteum is abnormally thick and vascular, and when detached carries with it jjlates and spicules of soft jjorous bone. The new bone deposited by the periosteum may be so abundant that it forms a thick crust on the surface, and in the flat bones of the skull this may be heaiDed up in the form of bosses or ridges resembling those met with in inherited syphilis. In the epiphysial cartilages and at the ossifying junctions, all the processes concerned in ossification, excepting the deposition of lime salts, occur to an exaggerated degree. The cartilage of the epiphysial disc proliferates actively and irregularly so that it becomes softer, thicker, and wider, and gives rise to a visible swelling, best seen at the lower end of the radius and lower end of the tibia, and at thecosto-chondral junctions, where the series of beaded swellings is known as the “ rickety rosary.” The ossifying zone is increased in depth ; the marrow is abnormally vas- cular ; and any new bone which is formed is imperfectly calcified. The result is that the affected bones may never attain their normal length, and they remain stunted throughout life as in rickety dwarfs (Fig. 233), or the shafts of the long bones may grow un- equally and come to deviate from their normal axes, as in knock-knee and bow- knee. Areas of overgrown cartilage may persist as islands surrounded by bone or marrow, and, according to Virchow, may subsequently become the starting-point Fig. 233.—Skeleton of Rick- ety Dwarf. The skeleton is that of “ Bowed J oseph, ” leader of the meal liots in Edinburgh, who died in 1780. (Anatomical Museum, Uni - versity of Eilinburgli.) of cartilaginous tumours. The changes in the marrow consist chiefly in an exaggeration of the normal process of absorption of bone. In the shafts of the long bones the cortex becomes porous and yielding, and the spongy bone is rarefied or disappears; hence the bones readily bend or break under mechanical influences. When the disease is recovered from, a process of repair sets in which often results in the affected bones becoming denser and heavier than normal. In the flat bones of the skull the absorption may