VARIETIES OF CANCER. 207 thereby prolong life. Deeply seated cancers are not influenced by the rays. Varieties of Cancer. Different varieties of cancer are distinguished according to the character and arrangement of the epithelial cells concerned in their formation. The squamous epithelial cancer or epithelioma originates from surfaces covered by squamous epithelium, such as the skin, and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gullet, larynx, bladder, and external genitals. The epithelial columns w^hicli constitute the cancer retain the characters of squamous epithelium, and being confined within the lymjihatic spaces of the sub-epithelial connective tissue, they become compressed and undergo a horny change. This results in the formation of concentrically laminated masses known as “cell nests” or “epithelial pearls.” The clinical features are usually those of a slowly growing, indurated. tumour which nearly always ulcerates ; there is a characteristic induration of the edges and floor of the ulcer, and its surface is often covered with warty or cauliflower-like outgrowths (Fig. 48). The infection of the lymphatic glands is remarkably early and constant, and constitutes the most danger- ous feature of the disease ; the secondary growths in the glands exhibit the characteristic induration, and may themselves break down into ulcers. Epithelioma frequently originates in long-standing ulcers or sinuses, and in scars, and probably results from the displace- ment and sequestration of epithelial cells during the process of cicatrisation. The columnar epithelial cancer or columnar epithelioma origi- nates in mucous membranes covered with columnar epithelium, and is chiefly met with in the stomach and intestine. It is sometimes described as a malignant adenoma, because of its close structural resemblance to the innocent adenoma. Its malignancy is shown by the proliferating epithelium invading the other coats of the stomach or intestine, and by the fact that it gives rise to secondary growths. Glandular carcinoma originates in glandular organs, such as the breast, and in the glands of mucous membranes and skin. The epithelial cells are not arranged on any definite plan, but are closely packed in irregularly shaped alveoli. If the alveoli are large and the intervening stroma is scanty and delicate, the tumour is soft and brain-like, and is described as a medullary or encephaloid cancer. If the alveoli are small and the intervening