125 HYDROPHOBIA. it should be given by the rectum. The administration of chloroform is of great value in conserving the strength of the patient by abolishing the spasms, and enabling the attendants to administer nourishment or drugs either through a stomach tube or by the rectum. Extreme elevation of temperature is met by tepid sponging. It is necessary to use the catheter if retention of urine occurs. Hydrophobia. Hydrophobia is an acute infective disease following on the bite of a rabid animal. The analogies existing between hydrojihobia and other diseases of undoubted bacterial origin justify the belief that this disease is due to a specitic organism, although it has not yet been demonstrated. In this country it most commonly follows the bite or lick of a rabid dog or cat. The virus appears to be communicated through the saliva of the animal, and the disease is most likely to develop when the patient is infected on the face or some other uncovered part. Only about one person out of three bitten by animals proved to be rabid suffers from the disease. Rabies in the Dog.—The animal becomes depressed and listless, develops a depraved appetite, eating all kinds of rubbish and filth ; is peculiarly irritable and snappish towards other dogs ; and ■when it moves about, takes no notice of surrounding objects. The bark becomes hoarse ; a thick ropy mucus collects in the mouth, and the creature has difficulty in swallowing, although it makes violent attempts to.lap water. Para- lysis of the lower jaw and of the limbs precedes death, which usually takes place in five or six days. The wild fury which is generally sup- posed to characterise a mad dog is usually conspicuous by its absence. A dog which has bitten a person should on no account be killed until its condition has been proved one way or the other. Should rabies develop and its destruction become necessary, the head and spinal cord should be retained and forwarded, packed in ice, to a competent observer. Much anxiety to the person bitten and to his friends would be avoided if these rules were observed, because in many cases it will be shown that the animal did not after all suffer from rabies, and that the patient con- sequently runs no risk. If, on the other hand, rabies is proved to be present, the patient should be submitted to the Pasteur treatment. Clinical Features in Man.—There is almost always a history of the patient having been bitten or licked by an animal supposed to suffer from rabies. The incubation period averages about forty days, but varies from a fortnight to seven or eight months, and is shorter in young than in old persons. The original wound has long since healed, and beyond a slight itchiness or jiain shooting along the nerves of the part, shows no sign of disturbance. A few days of general malaise, with chills and giddiness, precede the onset of the acute manifestations, which affect chiefly the muscles of deglutition and respiration. One of the earliest signs is that the patient has periodically a sudden catch in his breathing “ resembling what often occurs when a person goes into a cold bath.” This is due to spasm of the diaphragm, and is frequently accompanied by a loud-sounding hiccough, likened by the laity to the barking of a dog. Difficulty in swallowing fluids may be the first symptom.