22 CONDITIONS INTERFEEING WITH REPAIR. pMlia). Tlie term lymphocytosis is applied when there is an increase in the number of circulating lymphocytes, as occurs, for example, in lymphatic leukaemia, and in certain cases of syphilis. Leucocytosis is met with in nearly all the acute infective diseases, such, for example, as erysipelas, diphtheria, pneumonia, and scarlet fever. It is also present in acute pyogenic inflammatory affections, l^articularly in those attended with suppuration—for example, peritonitis, appendicitis, abscesses in joints and in internal organs. In gangrenous processes also, and in general septic poisonings, such as septicaemia and pyaemia, leucocytosis is present. In some cases of malignant disease the number of leucocytes is increased to 15,000 or 20,000. A few hours after a severe hemorrhage also there is usually a leucocytosis of from 15,000 to 30,000, which lasts for three or four days (Lyon). In cases of hemorrhage the leucocytosis is increased by infusion of fluids into the circulation. After all operations there is at least a transient leucocytosis {post-operative Icucocijtosis) (F. I. Dawson). The degree of leucocytosis is, as a rule, proportionate to the extent of the local lesion, and to the systemic reaction which the local lesion excites. It is to be borne in mind, however, that in very acute septic conditions the extreme virulence of the toxins may prevent the leuco- cytes reacting, and leucocytosis may be absent. The absence of leuco- cytosis in a disease in which it is usually present is therefore to be looked upon as a grave omen, particularly when the general symptoms are severe. The leucocytosis begins soon after the infection manifests itself—for example, by shivering, rigor, or rise of temperature. The number of leucocytes rises somewhat rapidly, increases while the condition is progressing, and remains high during the febrile period, but there is no constant correspondence between the number of leucocytes and the height of the temperature. The arrest of the inflammation and its resolution are accompanied by a fall in the number of leucocytes, while the occur- rence of suppuration is attended with a further increase in their number. In interpreting the “blood count” it is to be kept in mind that a physiological leucocytosis occurs within three or four hours of taking a meal, especially one rich in proteids, from 1500 to 2000 being added to the normal number. In digestion leucocytosis the increase is chiefly in the polynuclear neutrophile leucocytes. Immediately before and after delivery, particularly in primiparee, there is usuall}^ a moderate degree of leucocytosis. If the labour is normal and the puerjierium uncomplicated, the number of leucocytes regains the normal in about a week. Lactation has no appreciable effect on the number of leucocytes. In new-born infants, also, the leucocyte count is abnormally high, ranging from 15,000 to 20,000. In children under one year of age, the normal average is from 10,000 to 20,000. Absence of Leucocytosis—Leucopenia.—In certain infective diseases the number of leucocytes in the circulating blood is abnormally low— 3000 or 4000—and this condition is known as leucopenia. It occurs in typhoid fever, especially in the later stages of the disease ; in tuberculous lesions—for example, tuberculous peritonitis, xdeurisy, ostitis, or perios- titis, when unaccompanied by suppuration ; in malaria, and in most cases of uncomjjlicated influenza. The occurrence of leucocytosis in any of these conditions is to be looked upon as an indication that a mixed infection has taken filace, and that some suppurative process is in progress. The absence of leucocytosis in some cases of virulent septic poisoning has already been referred to.