23.5 BUENS AND SCALDS. bones. Tliese Ijurns are comparatively limited in area, as they are usually produced by prolonged contact with hot metal or caustics. Burns of the fifth and sixth degrees are sometimes met with in epileptics who fall into the fire during a fit. Large blood-vessels, nerve-trunks, joints, or serous cavities may be imi)licated. General Phenomena.—It is customary to divide the clinical history of a severe I)urn into three periods; but it is to be observed that the features characteristic of the periods have been greatly modified since burns have been treated on the same lines as other wounds. The first period lasts for from thirty-six to forty-eight hours, during which time the patient remains in a more or less profound state of shock, and there is a remarkable absence of pain. When shock is absent or little marked, however, the amount of suffering may be very great. When the injury proves fatal during this period, death is due to shock, i)robably aggravated by the absorption of poisonous substances produced in the burned tissues. In fatal cases there is often evidence of cerebral congestion and oedema. The second period begins when the shock passes off, and lasts till the sloughs separate. The outstanding features of this period are fever, the temperature rising to 102°, 103°, or 104° F. ; and congestive or intlammatory conditions of internal oi’gans, giving rise to such clinical complications as bronchitis, broncho- pneumonia, or pleurisy—especially in burns of the thorax ; or meningitis and cerebritis, when the neck or head is the seat of the burn. Intestinal catarrh associated with diarrhoea is not un- common ; and ulceration of the duodenum leading to perforation has been met with in a few rare cases. These phenomena are much more pi'ominent when septic infection takes place and the discharge is profuse. It seems more than })robable that they are all to be attributed more or less directly to septic absorption, especially in view of the fact that they have become much less frequent and less severe since burns have been treated on anti- septic principles. Albuminuria is a fairly constant symptom in severe burns, and is probably due to congestion of the kidneys. In burns implicating the face, neck, mouth, or pharynx, oedema of the glottis is a dangerous complication, entailing as it does the risk of suffocation. The third period begins when the sloughs separate, usually between the seventh and fourteenth day.s, and lasts till the wound heals, its duration de[)ending upon the size, depth, and asepticity of the raw area. The chief causes of death during