54 SUPPUEATION. occasional sharp, lancinating tinges. Should doubt remain as to the presence of pus, recourse may be had to the use of an exploring needle. Differential Diagnosis of Acute Abscess.—A practical difficulty which frequently arises is to decide whether or not pus has actually formed. It may be accepted as a working rule in j^ractice that when an acute inflammation has lasted for four or five days without showing signs of abatement, suppuration has almost certainly occurred. In deejj-seated suppuration, marked oedema of the skin and the occurrence of rigors and sweating may be taken to indicate the formation of pus. When any doubt remains it is best to assume the presence of pus and to act accordingly. There are cases on record where rapidly-growing sarcomatous and angiomatous tumours, aneurysms, and the bruises which occur in hsemophylics, have been mistaken for acute abscesses and incised. Treatment of Acute Abscess.—The dictum of John Bell, “ Where there is pus, let it out,” must be rigidly and jrromptly acted upon. The extent and situation of the incision will be regulated by the size of the abscess and its anatomical relations, but in all cases it should be sufficiently free to ensure thorough emptying of the cavity and to admit of efficient drainage. Large abscesses should be drained by glass or rubber tubes; smaller abscesses by strands of iodoform worsted or of rubber tissue. In some cases the cavity should be laid freely open in its whole extent, stuffed with iodoform gauze, and treated by the open method. It is seldom advisable to wash out an abscess cavity. Squeezing out the pus is also to be avoided, lest the protective zone be broken down and the infection be diffused into the surrounding tissues. The importance of adopting antiseptic precautions in opening an abscess can scarcely be exaggerated, and the rapidity with which healing occurs when the access of fresh bacteria is pre- vented is in marked contrast to what occurs when antiseptic precautions are neglected and further infection is allowed to take place. The wound should be dressed the next day, and the tube shortened, in the case of a rubber tube, by cutting off a portion of its outer end. On the second day or later, according to cir- cumstances, the tube is removed, and after this the dressing need not be repeated oftener than every second or third day. Where pus has formed in relation to important structures—as, for example, in the deeper planes of the neck—Hilton’s method of opening the abscess may be employed. An incision is made