338 THE NERVES. comes under the cognisance of the physician, it may be attended with phenomena which call for surgical interference. It may result from a number of causes, acting singly or in combination. In this country it is most commonly due to alcoholism, but it may result from diabetes or from chronic poisoning with lead or arsenic, or from bacterial infections and intoxications such as occur in diphtheria, gonorrhoea, syphilis, leprosy, typhoid, influenza, beri-beri, and many other diseases. It is, as a rule, widely and symmetrically distributed through- out the peripheral nerves, but the distribution frequently varies with the cause—the alcoholic form, for examjile, mainly affecting the legs, the diphtheric form the soft palate and pharynx, and that associated with lead - poisoning the arms. The essential lesion is a degeneration of the conducting fibres of the affected nerves, and the prominent symptoms are the result of this. The sensory phenomena include numbness and tingling, especially in the fingers and toes, and pain and tenderness along the nerves ; complete anaesthesia is rare. The motor phenomena include weakness or actual paralysis of muscles, with wasting, loss of the tendon reflexes, and, in advanced cases, the reaction of degeneration. In alcoholic neuritis there is great tenderness of the muscles. When the legs are affected the patient may be unable to walk, and the toes may droop and the heel be drawn up, resulting in one variety of pes equino - varus. Pressure sores and perforating ulcer are the most important trophic phenomena. Apart from the medical treatment—which includes the use of remedies directed towards the cause of the neuritis, and for the relief of pain—measures must be taken to prevent deformity, especially when the legs are affected. The bed-clothes are sup- ported by a cage, and the feet maintained at right angles to the legs by sand-bags or splints. When the disease is subsiding the nutrition of the damaged nerves and muscles should be main- tfiined by massage, baths, passive movements, and the use of the galvanic current. NEUROMATA. L Neuroma is a clinical term applied to all tumours, irrespective of their structure, which have their seat in nerves. Tumours which are composed of newly formed nerve tissue are spoken of as true neuromata \ when ganglionic cells are present in addition to nerve fibres, the name ganglionic neuro-