•217 CONTUSIONS. parts where the extravasated blood is only separated from the oxygen of the air l)y a thin layer of epidermis or by a mucous membrane, it retains its bright arterial colour. These i)oints are ( often well illustrated in cases of black eye, where the blood effused under the conjunctiva is bright red, while that in the I eyelids is almost black. In severe contusions associated with i great tension of the skin—for example, over the front of the tibia or around the ankle—blisters often form on the surface and constitute a possible source of septic infection. When deeply I situated, the blood tends to spread along the lines of least i; resistance, partly under the influence of gravity, passing under fasciaj, between muscles, along the sheaths of vessels, or in connective-tissue spaces, so that it may only reach the surface after some time, and at a considerable distance from the seat , of injury. This fact is sometimes of importance in diagnosis, as, for example, in certain fractures of the base of the skull, where discoloration appears under the conjunctiva or behind the mastoid process a few days after the accident. Blood extravasated deeply in the tissues gives rise to a firm, I resistant, doughy swelling, in which there may be elicited on deep palpation a peculiar sensation, not unlike the crepitus of fracture. The majority of contusions tend to spontaneous cure, during I the progress of which characteristic alterations in the colour of the effused blood take place as a result of changes in the blood pigment. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours the margins of the blue area become of a violet hue, and as time goes on the discoloured area increases in size, and becomes successively green, yellow, and lemon-coloured at its margins, the central part being the last to change. The rate at which this play of colours proceeds is so variable, and depends on so many cir- cumstances, that no time-limits can be laid down. During the disintegration of the effused blood the adjacent lymphatic glands may become enlarged, and on dissection may be found to be pigmented. Sometimes the blood collects in a space—for example, under the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, in the tunica vaginalis, or in a large connective-tissue space—and constitutes a haematoma. The encapsulation of such an effusion, by pro- liferation of the connective'tissue around it, may give rise to a haemorrhagic cyst (p. 212). It frequently happens that, from the tearing of lymphatic vessels, serous fluid is extravasated, and a lymphatic or serous cyst may form (p. 212).