THE NERVES. 334 temperature appears very soon after; and last of all, after a considerable interval, there is simultaneous return of appreciation of light touch, moderate degrees of temperature, and the two points of a compass. Primary suture should not be attempted so long as the wound shows signs of inflammation or suppuration, as it is almost certain to end in failure. The ends should be sutured, however, as soon as the wound is aseptic or has healed. Secondary Suture.—The stitching of the ends of a nerve in a wound which has already healed is known as secondary suture. The operation of uniting a divided nerve is more difficult in a wound which has healed, because the ends are usually involved in scar tissue. An incision is made in the line of the nerve, and the cut ends sought for. If they cannot be identified in the scar tissue, they will be found at a little distance above and below", in their normal anatomical situation. The ends of the nerve, after being freed from the scar tissue, are trimmed with scissors and approximated by sutures as already described. If a tourni- quet is employed, it should be removed as soon as the ends of tlie nerve have been isolated, in order to minimise its pressure effects. Results of Secondary Suture.—When secondary suture has been performed under favourable conditions the prognosis is good, but a much longer time is required for complete restoration of function than after primary suture. Sensation is recovered first, but it seldom returns before three or four months. There then follows an improvement or disappearance of any trophic disturbances which may be present. Recovery of motion may be deferred for long periods—rather because of the changes in the muscles than from want of conductivity in the nerve— and if the muscles have undergone complete degeneration, it may never take place at all. While waiting for recovery, every effort should be made to maintain the nutrition of the damaged nerve and of the parts which it supplies by the measures already described. If it is impossible to bring the ends into contact, recourse must be had to other methods. For example, the gap may be bridged across by strands of fine catgut or by a portion of nerve obtained from an animal or a recently amputated limb. When catgut is employed, it is a hseful addition to slip a decalcified bone tube over the ends of the nerve and across the gap. The practice of turning down flaps from the ends of the nerve is of doubtful value, as such portions usually degenerate. Resection of a portion of bone so as to shorten the segment of limb con-