INJURIES OF VEINS. 253 tran.sverse, the retraction of the mu.scular coat causes the open- ing to gape, with the result that there is profuse hieinorrhage, which, even in comparatively small arteries, jnay prove dangerous. When the associated wound in the soft parts is valvular an aneurysm may develop. When a large arterial trunk, such as the external iliac, the femoral, the common carotid, the brachial, or the popliteal, has been partially divided, for example, in the course of an operation, the opening should be closed with sutures—arteriorraphy. The circulation being controlled by a tourniquet, fine silk or catgut stitches are passed through the adventitia and media after the method of Lembert, a thin, round needle being- employed. Part of the sheath of the vessel or of an adjacent fascia should be stitched over the line of suture in the vessel wall. If septic infection be excluded there is little risk of thrombosis or secondary hmmorrhage. In the case of smaller trunk,s, or when suture is impracticable, the artery should be ligatured above and below the opening, and divided between the ligatures. Gun-shot wounds of blood-vessels are described at page 229. Injuries of Veins. Veins are subject to the same forms of injury as arteries, and the results are in most respects alike in both, such varia- tions as occur being dependent partly on the difference in their anatomical structure, and jiartly on the conditions of the circulation through them. Subcutaneous rupture of veins occurs under the same condi- tions as the corresponding injury of arteries, and more jiarticularly in association with fractures and in the reduction of dislocations. The veins most commonly ruptured are the popliteal, the axillary, the femoral, and the subclavian. On account of the smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissue in a vein, the contraction and retraction of its walls is less than in an artery, and so bleeding may continue for a much longer period. On the other hand, owing to the lower blood pressure in a vein the outflow goes on more slowly, and the gradually increasing pressure produced by the extravasated blood is usually sufficient to arrest the hmmorrhage before it has become serious. As an aid in diagnosing the source of the bleeding, it should be remembered that the rupture of a vein does not affect the imlsation in the limb beyond. The risks are practically the same as when an artery is ruiitured, and the treatment is carried out on the .same lines, but in the case of veins it is