DISEASES or BONE 604 formation it may be difficult to differentiate tuberculous dactylitis from the enlargement of the lingers in inherited syphilis (syphilitic dactylitis), especially when the tuberculous lesion occurs in a child who is the subject of inherited syphilis. In the syphilitic lesion, skiagrams usually show a more abundant formation of new bone, but in many cases the doubt is only cleared up by observing the progress of the case and the effects of anti-syphilitic treatment. Treatment.—Recovery under conservative measures is not uncommon, and the functional results are usually much better than those following uj:)on operative treatment, although in either case the affected linger is liable to be dwarfed (Fig. 227). The fingers should be immobilised in a splint, and the general health improved in every possible way. Operative interference is indicated if a cold abscess forms, if there is a persistent sinus, or if a sequestrum has formed, a point upon which information is obtained by examination with the X-rays. When the disease affects the toes, amputation should be recommended, but it is rarely called for in the lingers unless the disease is threatening to spread along the lymphatics, or is affecting the general health. It is more often required in adults than in children. Syphilitic Diseases of Bone. Syphilitic diseases of bone may be met with at any iieriod subsequent to the original infection. The graver forms are met with chiefly in the tertiary stage of acquired and inherited syphilis. The virus is carried by the blood-stream to all parts of the skeleton, but the actual development of the disease appears to be influenced by some local predisposition on the part of individual bones, and by external factors such as injury. Syphilitic diseases of bone are much less frequently met with in practice than those due to pyogenic and tuberculous infections. They show a marked predilection for certain bones, notably the tibia, sternum and skull. They differ from tuberculous affections in the frequency with which they affect the shafts of long bones rather than the articular ends, and the consequent rarity of joint complications. Evanescent periostitis is met with in acquired syphilis during the period of the early skin eruptions. The patient complains, especially at night, of jiains over the frontal bone, ribs, sternum, tibiiB, and ulme. Localised tenderness is elicited on making pressure over the bone, and there is slight swelling of the periosteum, which rarely amounts to what may be described as a periosteal node.