INJURIES OF NERVES. 335 cerned has been successfully practised in the upper arm (Annau- dale). When the gap between the ends is very wide, the ends may be spliced into the nearest intact nerve-trunk—for example, the widely separated ends of the median nerve may be attached to the ulnar. The results of this procedure—which has been called nerve implantation—are often most satisfactory. Injuries of nerves resulting from gun-shot wounds may be considered under two heads:—(1) those in which the nerve is directly damaged by the bullet, and (2) those in which the nerve-trunk is involved secondarily either in scar tissue in its vicinity or in callus following fracture of an adjacent bone. The primary injuries include contusions, partial or complete division and perforation of the nerve-trunk. Contusions vary greatly in severity and present the same range of clinical features as have been described with the subcutaneous injuries of nerves; if there is suppuration in the associated wound, the symptoms of disordered function are liable to be more pronounced and persistent. Division, partial or complete, of a nerve-trunk by a bullet is attended by the same signs of interrupted conduction as when the nerve is divided by other means. The treatment is conducted on the same lines as in other injuries of nerves. Involvement of Nerves in Scar Tissue.—This applies to the implication of nerve-trunks which were not themselves affected by the original lesion. A suppurating wound or an abscess in the vicinity of a nerve-trunk may cause injurious pressure or traction upon the nerve by the contracting scar tissue, or may induce in it a process of neuritis or perineuritis. The symptoms are very similar to those of neuritis. When terminal filaments are involved in a scar, it is best to dissect out the scar, and along with it the ends of the nerves pressed upon. When a nerve-trunk, such as the sciatic, is in- volved in a scar, the nerve must be exposed and freed from its surroundings, and then stretched so as to tear any bands of fibrous tissue which may have been overlooked. It may be advisable to displace the liberated nerve from its original position so as to minimise the risk of its incorporation in the scar of the original wound or in that resulting from the operation. When the nerves in-an amputation stump have not been cut sufficiently short, they may become involved in the cicatrix, and it may be necessary, on account of pain, to free them from their adhesions, and to resect enough of the terminal portions to