DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. 682 The Elbow-Joint. In disease of the elbow, the usual attitude is that of flexion with pronation of the hand. Swelling of the joint, whether from effusion of fluid or from thickening of the synovial membrane, is perceived chiefly on the posterior as2iect, above and on either side of the olecranon, because the synovial sac is here nearest the surface. The free communication between the elbow and the sujjerior radio-ulnar joint should be borne in mind, in relation to di.sease of the elbow. Tuberculous disease is the most common and important (Fig. 258). It usually occurs under twenty, but may be met with at any age, and even in old people. When the disease is confined to the synovial membrane its onset is very insidious, there is little or no iiain, and no interference with any movement exce^it comjilete extension. The only evidence of disease is the develo^mient of a white swelling on either side of and above the ole- cranon, obscuring the bony landmarks. The further jirogress is at- tended with wasting of the triceps, symptoms of involvement of the articular surfaces, and with abscess formation. The occurrence of articular caries without swelling of the synovial membrane is excejitional, and is associated with a good deal of pain and considerable restriction of movement. Rigidity from muscular contraction occurs late, and is rarely complete. Tuberculous foci in the bones are met with chiefly in the upjier end of the ulna and the lower end of the humerus; they may be recognised by swelling, and pain on making jiressure over the bone. The grosser osseous lesions cause enlargement of the bone, and are readily demonstrated by skiagrajihy. Abscess forma- tion most commonly occurs beneath the trice^is, and the abscess points at one or other edge of that muscle. A subcutaneous abscess may form over the upper end of the ulna or over the Fig. 258.—Diffuse Tuberculous Thickeuiiig of Sj'uovial Membrane of Elbow (white swelling), in a boy eet. 12.