254 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. seldom necessary to operate for the purpose of applying a ligature to the injured vessel. Wounds of veins—punctured and incised—frequently occur in the course of surgical operations; for example, in the removal of tumours or diseased glands from the neck, the axilla, or the groin. They are also met with as a result of accidental stabs and of suicidal or homicidal injuries. The hsemorrhage from a large vein so damaged is usually profuse, but owing to the comparatively low blood pressure is more readily controlled by external pressure than that from an artery. When a vein is merely punctured, the bleeding may be arrested either by applying pressure with a pad of gauze, or by lateral ligature —that is, picking up the margins of the rent in the wall and securing them with a ligature without occluding the lumen. It is sometimes possible to suture the opening in the wall of the vein. This does not result in obliteration of the lumen, nor does a thrombus necessarily form. When an artery and vein are simultaneously wounded the features peculiar to each are present in greater or less degree. In the limbs the risk of gangrene is increased, and this is especi- ally liable to ensue if the wound becomes infected. Punctured and gun-shot wounds implicating both artery and vein, as well as those due to modern small-bore bullets, are liable to be followed by the development of arterio-venous aneurysm. Entrance of Air into Veins—Air Embolism.—This serious, though fortunately rare, accident is apt to occur in the course of operations in the region of the thorax, neck, or axilla, if a large vein is opened and fails to collapse on account of the rigidity of its walls, its incorporation in a dense fascia, or from traction being made upon it. If a vein is thus held open the negative pressure in the vessel during inspiration sucks air into the right side of the heart. This is accompanied by a peculiar hissing or gurgling sound, and with the next expiration some frothy blood leaves the wound in the vessel wall. The patient instantly becomes pale, the pupils dilate, respiration becomes laboured, and, although the heart may continue to beat forcibly, the peripheral pulse is weak, and may even be imperceptible. On auscultating the heart a churning sound may be heard. Death may result in a few minutes; or the heart may slowly regain its power and recovery take place. These symptoms have been attributed (1) to the collection of air in the right side of the heart, so that the right ventricle has no blood on which to contract, and the pulmonary circulation is therefore stopped ; (2) to the passage of air into the pulmonary