FflACTURES. 411 Pain.—Three forms of ^Jain may be present in fractures ; pain as such; pain induced by movement of the limb; pain elicited on pressure, or “ tenderness,” and pain independent of movement or pressure (John Duncan). In injuries by direct violence, pain as such is never diagnostic of fracture, as it may be due to bruising or tearing of soft tissues. In the region of a joint also, pain may be due to dislocation or sprain as well as to fracture. In injuries resulting from indirect violence, however, pain localised to a spot at some distance from the point of impact is strongly suggestive of fracture—as, for example, when a patient complains of pain over the clavicle after a fall on the hand, or over the upper end of the fibula after a twist of the ankle. Pain elicited by attempts to move the damaged part, or by applying pressure over the seat of injury, is more significant of fracture. Pain elicited at a particular point on pressing the bone at a distance, “pain on distal pressure,” —for example, pain at the lower end of the fibula on pressing near its neck, or at the angle of a rib on pressing near the sternum—is a valuable diagnostic sign of fracture. When nerve trunks are implicated in the vicinity of a fracture, pain is often present along the course of their distribution. Localised swelling conies on rapidly, and is due to displace- ment of the fragments, and effusion of blood. Discoloration accompanies the swelling, and is often wide- spread, especially in bones near the surface and when the tension is great. It is not uncommon to find over the ecchymosed area, especially over the shin - bone, large dark blebs containing blood-stained serum. In fractures of deep- seated bones, discoloration may only show on the surface after some days, and at some distance from the break. Alterations in the relative position of hony landmarks are valuable diagnostic guides. Alteration in the length of the limb, usually in the direction of shortening, is also an important sign. Before drawing deductions care must be taken to place both limbs in the same position and to determine accurately the fixed points for measurement, and also to ascertain if the limbs were previously normal. Shock is seldom a prominent symptom in uncomplicated fractures, although in old and enfeebled patients it may be serious and even fatal. During the first two or three days after a fracture there is almost invariably some degree of traumatic fever., indicated by a rise of temperature to 99° or 100° F. (Fig. 12)._ Complications.—Injuries to large arteries are not common