646 DISEASES OF JOINTS. From the anatomical point of view they may be divided into those in which the disease originates in the synovial membrane, and those in which it originates in one of the adjacent bones. The relative frequency of these two tyjjes varies with the age of the patient and with the joint affected. In children, the number of cases originating in the bones is approximately three times as great as of those originating in the synovial membrane, most frequently originates in the synovial membrane. As regards the joint affected, the maximum frequency of osseous lesions is found in the hip—in the propor- tion of five osseous to one synovial; in the knee and in the other large joints, the proportion is about equal (Konig). The predominance of bone lesions in childhood and youth is to be ascribed chiefly to the activity of the growth at the ends of the long bones. Morbid Anatomy.—-When there is tuberculous disease in the articular end of a long bone, it may give rise to reactive changes in the adjacent joint, characterised by effusion and by the prolongation of the syno- vial membrane over the articular surfaces. This may result in the formation of adhesions which obliterate the cavity of the joint or divide it into different com- partments. These lesions are comparatively common, and are often erroneously regarded as resulting from tuberculous infection of the joint. The actual infection of the joint with tubercle originating in the adjacent bone may take place at the periphery, the osseous focus reaching the surface of the bone at the site of the reflection of the synovial membrane, and the infection which begins at this point then spreads to the rest of the membrane. Or it may take place in the central area, by tuberculous pus escaping into the joint through a hole in the articular cartilage, or by the projection of tuberculous granulation tissue into the joint following upon gradual erosion of the cartilage (Fig. 245). while in adults, the disease Fig. 245.—Section of Ujiper End of Fibula, showing oaseatiug focus in marrow, erujiting on articular surface and infecting joint.