718 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. corrected but in course of time becomes permanent. The deformities resulting from anterior jjoliomyelitis are due to the shortening of unopposed, healthy, or less affected muscles — the shortening finally amounting to contracture—to the elFects of gravity, and, in the lower extremities, to the superincumbent weight of the body. Surgical Ireatnient, is directed towards the prevention of deformity, or to its correction when it has already taken place. As soon as the fever and other acute symptoms have subsided, the limb is massaged and protected froin cold. If there are any voluntary movements preserved, the child is encouraged to practise them, and j'l'eoautions are taken to prevent the limb assuming an abnormal attitude. By means of splints or other apparatus the limb is fixed in such an attitude as to stretch the shortened muscles and relax those which have become lengthened. By means of an operation the tendons of functionating muscles may be divided and attached to the tendons of muscles which are paralysed—a proceeding known as Iransjylantation af tendons, originally devised by Nicoladoni. When all the muscles acting on a joint are paralysed, and the limb is thereby rendered useless for support or progression, the joint may be artificially ankylosed—a procedure introduced by Albert and known as arthrodesis. In extreme cases, where the limb is hopelessly paralysed and useless, amputation may prove the best treatment, by rendering it possible to have recourse to an artificial substitute. Cerebral Palsies of Childhood — Spastic Paralysis. — These may be due to arrest of the development of the brain, to injuries of the head at birth, to meningeal hiemorrhage, or to other lesions of the brain with secondary degenerative changes in the spinal cord. The paralysis may affect one side of the body—hemijjlegia ; or both sides—diplegia ; less commonly one extremity alone is involved—monoplegia. The mental functions may be unim2)aired or they may be very imperfectly developed, the impairment in some cases amounting to idiocy. There may be generalised convulsions. The affected limbs exhibit mmscular rigidity or spasm, which is exaggerated on movement but disappears under an anaesthetic ; the rellexes are exaggerated, and sometimes there are perverted involuntary movements {athetosis). The growth of the limb is impaired, and contracture deformity may supervene. The amount of power in the limb is often astonishing, in marked contrast to what is usually observed in infantile spinal paralysis. The amount of natural improvement is by no means great, and normal function is almost never regained. In hemiplegic cases the ujijier limb is, as a rule, more severely affected than the lower. In diplegia, in which to start with both arms and both legs are affected, the arms may recover and the lower extremities remain the seat of S2)astic ^jaralysis (Little’s disease). Treatment is mainly concerned with the jirevention or correction of deformity. A muscle which is the seat of spasm should be j)ut at rest by lengthening its tendon in order to relieve the constant ^mll on the weak, overstretched opponent, and to get rid of the tendency to spasm. The recognition of the jiarticular tendons which should be lengthened or divided in any individual case requires most careful consideration. Oj)erative interference is only to be recommended in cases in which the intellectual develoiiment is fair, in which there are no general convulsions or involuntary perverted movements of the nature of athetosis.