FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE HUMERUS. 471 buckle ; or better, of two pieces of Gooch splinting cut as in Fig. 126, special provision being made for avoiding pressure on the condyles. The elbow is fixed at a right angle and secured by a rectangular splint, the forearm being midway between pronation and supination, and the forearm is supported in a sling. For a few days the shoulder may be controlled by a shoulder-cap, or by binding the limb to the chest by a wide roller bandage. From the second week onward the splints are removed daily to admit of massage and movement being carried out, and while the splints are off the patient is allowed to exercise the fingers and wrist. If, at the end of four or five weeks, osseous union has not occurred, the reparative process may be hastened by inducing venous congestion by Bier’s method. In oblique fractures, when there is difficulty in preventing overriding and redisplacement, the fragments may be exposed by incision, and fixed together by mechanical means. Wlien there is evidence that the musculo-spiral nerve has been injured, and no sign of improvement appears within three or four days of the accident, operative interference is indicated. An incision is made on the outer side of the arm, and the nerve exposed and freed from pressure, or stitched as may be necessary. In cases of old standing it has been found necessary to resect a portion of the shaft of the humerus to enable the ends of the nerve to be approximated. The opportunity should also be taken of dealing with the fracture as may be necessary. In cases of im-united fracture a vertical or semilunar incision is made over the outer aspect of the bone, and the muscles separated from one another till the fracture is exposed, care being taken to avoid injuring the musculo-spiral nerve. The fibrous tissue is removed from the ends of the bone and the rawed surfaces fixed in apposition by pegs, screws, or wires. The wound is then closed, and appropriate splints and other retentive apparatus applied. As soon as the wouiid has healed massage is commenced.