426 INJURIES OF BONES. the young spongy bone of the intermediate callus becomes more and more compact, and thus the original architectural arrange- ment of the bone may be faithfully reproduced. The amount of callus produced in the repair of a given fracture is greater when movement is permitted between the broken ends. It is also influenced by the character of the bone involved, being less in bones entirely ossified in membrane, such as the hat bones of the skull, than in those primarily ossihed in cartilage. If the fragments are widely separated from one another, or if some tissue, such as muscle, intervenes between them, callus may not be able to bring about a bony union between the fragments, and non-union results. Bones divided in the course of an operation, for example in osteotomy for knock-knee, or wedge-shaped resection for bow-leg, are repaired by the same process as fractures. Pig. 104.—Excessive Callus Formation after Septic Compound Fracture of both Bones of Forearm—result of gun-shot wound. Fusion of Bones across Interosseous Space. A compound fracture, if not infected by bacteria, heals in the same way as a simple one. Should infection ensue, how- ever, changes associated with inhammation complicate the healing process and give rise to phenomena which will be referred to with the diseases of bone. Under these circumstances any fragments which may have been detached are liable to undergo necrosis, and to require removal. Excess of Callus.—In comminuted fractures, and in fractures where there is much displacement, the amount of callus is in excess, but this is necessary to ensure stability„ In fractures in the vicinity of large joints, such as the hip or elbow, the formation of callus is sometimes excessive, and the projecting masses of new bone restrict the movements of the joint. When exuberant callus forms between the bones in fractures of the forearm, pronation and supination may be interfered with (Fig. 104). Certain nerve trunks, such as the musculo-spiral in the middle of the upper arm, or the ulnar at the elbow-joint, may become included in or pressed uj^on by callus.