293 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. Suppuration may occur in the vicinity of an aneurysm as a result of infection with pyogenic bacteria. The signs of acute inflammation and suppuration are added to those peculiar to aneurysm. The aneurysm may burst into the abscess, so that when the latter points the pus is mixed with broken-down blood-clot, and finally free hmmorrhage takes place. It has more than once happened that even the most eminent surgeons have incised such abscesses without having recognised their association with aneurysm, with tragic results. Treatment.—The numerous surgical measures employed in the treatment of aneurysm are all designed to imitate the process of natural cure. In treating a case of aneurysm the indications are: to promote the coagulability of the blood, and so to favour the formation of a clot in the sac; and to obtain a permanent occlusion of the portion of the artery from which the aneurysm springs, without at the same time seriously endangering the nutrition of the parts beyond. General constitutional treatment effects certain of these objects, while others are attained by local measures. Constitutional Treatment. —All forms of local treatment must be supplemented by general measures which tend to reduce the arterial tension and to diminish the force of the heart’s action. The patient must be kept in bed at absolute rest—muscular effort being as far as possible avoided. A dry and non-stimulating diet is indicated, the (quantity being gradually reduced till it is just sufficient to maintain nutrition. Saline purges may be employed to reduce the vascular tension. The benefit derived from the administration of potassium iodide administered in full doses, as first recommended by George W. Balfour, probably depends on its depressing action on the heart. Pain or restlessness may call for the use of moderate doses of opium. Local Treatment. — The constitutional treatment above described is only to be looked upon as accessory to local measures, by which alone the permanent occlusion of the artery and the obliteration of the sac can be effected. The Old Operation.—The procedure which goes by this name consists in exposing the aneurysm, clearing out the clots, and ligating the artery above and below the sac. In some instances the sac is then dissected out and removed; in others it is left to contract. Where it is available this is the most radical and the most certain method of treatment. Origin- ally practised by Antyllus (a.d. 300)—hence the name “ old