306 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. where it may become adherent to the pleura. The aneurysm is of slow growth, and occasionally undergoes spontaneous cure. The radial pulse on the same side as the aneurysm is small and delayed. Congestion and oedema of the limb, with pain, numbness, and muscular weakness, may result from pressure on the veins and nerves as they pass under the clavicle; and pressure on the phrenic nerve may induce hiccough. The conditions most likely to be mistaken for subclavian aneurysm are a soft, rapidly growing sarcoma, and a normal artery raised on a cervical rib. It is to be borne in mind, however, that aneurysm is liable to develop in an artery so displaced by a cervical rib. On account of the anatomical relations of the artery and the disposition of its branches, surgical treatment is attended with greater difficulty in subclavian than in almost any other form of external aneurysm. Needling or electrolysis should be tried before resorting to operation. The available operative measures are proximal ligature of the innominate, and distal ligature. In some cases it has been found necessary to com- bine distal ligature with amputation at the shoulder-joint, to prevent the collateral circulation maintaining the flow through the aneurysm. All these operations are serious, and are only undertaken when less dangerous measures fail. Axillary Aneurysm.—Any part of the axillary artery may be the seat of aneurysm. It is usually met with in the right arm of labouring men and sailors, and not infrequently follows an injury in the region of the shoulder. The vessel may be damaged by the head of a dislocated humerus or in attempts to reduce the dislocation, by the fragments of a fractured bone, or by a stab or cut. Sometimes the vein also is injured and an arterio-venous aneurysm established. Owing to the laxity of the tissues in which the vessel lies, an axillary aneurysm grows more rapidly than a subclavian, and it may soon attain a large size, filling up the axilla, and displacing the clavicle ujDwards. This renders compression of the third part of the .subclavian difficult or impossible. It may extend beneath the clavicle into the neck, or, extending inwards, may form adhesions with the chest wall, and, after eroding the ribs, with the pleura. The usual symptoms of aneurysm are present, and the jjressure effects on the veins and nerves are similar to those produced by an aneurysm of the subclavian. Intra-thoracic complications—pleuri.sy, pneumonia, h;emoptysis—are not in- frequent when the aneurysm forms adhesions to the chest wall