701 THE HIP-JOINT. usually able to walk and run about, but with a limp which becomes more pronounced as he grows up. The appearances closely resemble those of congenital dislocation, and unless an accurate history is obtainable, it may be impossible to distinguish between them. Treatment.—The limb is extended by means of the weight and pulley, and kept at rest with the single or double long splint, or by means of sand-bags. If there is evidence of suppuration, the joint should be explored by an anterior incision inclining down- wards and inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine between the tensor fasciie femoris and the sartorius; a posterior opening being made for drainage. In children, it is remarkable how completely the joint may recover under this method of treatment. If there is dislocation of the femur, it should be reduced by manipulation with or without preliminary extension ; it has been successful in about one-half of the cases in which it has been attempted. Preliminary tenotomy of the shortened tendons is required in some cases. When reduction by manipulation is impossible, the joint structures should be exposed by one or other of the methods employed in excising the joint, and the head of the bone, if present, replaced in the acetabulum; in the absence of the head, the neck should be fixed against the socket, thereby diminishing shortening at the expense of mobility. Arthritis Deformans. —This disease is comparatively common at the hip, either as a monarticular affection or simultaneously mth disease of other joints. The changes in the joint are characteristic of the dry form of the disease, and affect chiefly the cartilages and bones. The atrophy and wearing away of the articular surfaces are accompanied by a new formation of cartilage and bone around their margins. The head of the femur may acquire the shape of a helmet, a mushroom, or a limpet shell. From absorption taking place in the neck of the femur, the head may come to be sessile at the base of the neck, and may occupy a level considerably below that of the great trochanter (Fig. 266). These changes may extend to the upper part of the shaft of the femur, and result in curving of the shaft and neck, suggesting a resemblance to a point of interrogation. The acetabulum may “ wander ” backwards and upwards, as in tuberculous disease. It is usually deepened, and its floor may project on the pelvic aspect; its margins may form a projecting collar which over- hangs the neck of the femur, or grasps it so that, even in the macerated condition, the head is imprisoned in the socket and