3 PROCESS OF REPAIR. tlie new tissue. Their function seems to be the removal of the red corpuscles and fibrin of the original blood-clot, and this performed, they either pass back into the circulation in virtue of their amoeboid movement, or are themselves eaten up by the ^rowing fibroblasts. O O These young capillary loops, with their supporting cells and fluids, constitute granulation tissue, which must be looked upon as the fundamental and invariable basis of all tissue repair. Formation of Cicatricial Tissue.—This temporary granulation tissue subsequently becomes more flbrous and less cellular in character as it is transformed into young cicatricial or scar tissue. The flbroblasts become enlarged, rounded, and finally spindle- shaped, and produce a fibrillated substance around them which gradually increases in amount and develops into white fibrous tissue. This fibrous tissue assumes an arrangement depending upon the mechanical pull or })ressure which happens to be put upon the part. At the same time the capillaries become narrowed and also less numerous. While these changes are taking place the surface is being covered over by epidermis from the margins of the wound. The cells of the rete Malpighii close to the cut edge sprout on to the surface of the wound, and by their proliferation cover the granulations with a thin pink pellicle. As the epi- thelium increases in thickness at the periphery it assumes a bluish hue, and eventually the cells become cornified and of a greyish-white colour. In the more highly vascular parts of the body, such as the face, these reparative processes are completed in from three to five days, while in parts where the vascular anastomosis is less free, for example, on the limbs or trunk, they may occupy from a week to ten days. In course of time the newly formed connective tissue under- goes cicatricial contraction by the diminution in size of the blood-vessels and cells, and by the consolidation of the young white fibrous tissue. The process of ideal repair being unassociated with inflamma- tion, goes on without any appreciable interference with the general health of the patient. The temperature remains normal; the circulatory, gastro-intestinal, nervous, and other functions are undisturbed; locally, the part is cool, of natural colour, and free from pain. This natural process of repair has long been known as “ healing by first intention.” It takes place without artificial aid from the surgeon, so long as the edges of the wound are