70 SUPPUEATION. developing, and it seldom begins ■within a week of the primary infection. The first sign is a violent rigor lasting for perhaps half an hour, during which time the temperature rises to 103°, 104°, or 105° F. In the course of an hour it begins to fall again, and the patient breaks into a profuse sweat. The tempera- ture may fall several degrees, but seldom reaches the normal. In a few days there is a second rigor with rise of temperature, and another remission, and such attacks may be repeated at diminish- ing intervals during the course of the illness (Figs. 8 and 9). The pulse is soft, and tends to remain abnormally rajjid even when the temperature falls nearly to normal. The face is flushed and wears a drawn, anxious expression, and the eyes are bright. A characteristic sweetish odour, which has been comijared to that of new-mown hay, can be detected in the breath and may pervade the patient. The appetite is lost; there may be sickness and vomiting and profuse diarrhoea; and the patient emaciates rapidly. The skin is continuously hot and has often a peculiar pungent feel. Patches of erythema (redness) sometimes appear scattered over the body. The skin may assume a dull sallow or earthy hue, or a bright yellow icteric tint may appear. The conjunctive also may be yellow. In the later stages of the disease the pulse becomes small and fluttering; the tongue becomes dry and brown; sordes collect on the teeth; and a low-muttering form of delirium supervenes. Secondary infection of the parotid gland frequently occurs' and gives rise to a sup^^urative parotitis. This condition is associated with severe pain, gradually extending from behind the angle of the jaw on to the face. There is also swelling over the gland, and eventually suppuration and sloughing of the gland tissue and overlying skin. Secondary abscesses in the lymphatic glands, subcutaneous tissue, or joints are often very insidious and painless in their development, so that they may only be discovered by the swelling which results. When the abscess is evacuated, healing often takes place with remarkable rapidity, and with little interference with function. Prognosis.—While the prognosis in acute pyaemia is always grave, it is much less hopeless than it once was, a considerable proportion of the patients recovering. In acute cases the disease proves fatal in ten days or a fortnight, death being due to toxmmia. Chronic cases often run a long course, lasting for weeks or even months, and prove fatal from exhaustion and waxy disease following on prolonged suppuration. Treatment.—The rational treatment is in the first place to