166 SYPHILIS. patches, which are areas with a congested base covered with a thin white film of sodden epithelium like wet tissue-paper. They are best seen on the inner aspect of the cheeks, the soft palate, uvula, pillars of the fauces and tonsils. When a mucous patch is in contact with a rough tooth it may give way on the surface and sujjpurate. In addition to mucous patches, there may be a number of small, superficial, kidney-shaped ulcers, especially along the margins of the tongue and on the tonsils. In the absence of mucous patches and ulcers, the sore throat may be characterised by a bluish tinge of the inflamed mucous membrane and a thin film of shed epithelium on the surface. Sometimes there is an elongated sinuous film which has been likened to the track of a snail. In the larynx the presence of congestion, oedema, and mucous patches may be the cause of persistent hoarseness. The tongue often presents a combination of lesions including ulcers, patches where the papillae are absent, fissures, and raised white papules resembling warts, especially towards the centre of the dorsum. These lesions are specially apt to occur in those who smoke, drink, or eat hot condiments to excess, and in those with irregular, sharp-cornered teeth. At a later period, and in those who are broken down in health from intemperance or other cause, a serious form of sore throat may be met with in the form of rapidly spreading, penetrating ulcers in the soft palate and pillars of the fauces, and may lead to extensive destruction of tissue. In exceptional cases an ulceration commencing in the fauces spreads forwards along the palate and destroys the entire roof of the mouth. In the hones, lesions occur which assume the clinical features of an evanescent periostitis, the patient complaining of nocturnal pains over the frontal bone, sternum, tibiae and ulnae, and localised tenderness on tapping over these bones. In th.Q joints, a serous synovitis or hydrops may occur, chiefly in the knee, on one or on both sides. The Affections of the Eyes, although fortunately rare, are of great importance because of the serious results which may follow if they are not recognised and treated. Iritis is the commonest of these, and may occur in one or in both eyes, one after the other, from three to eight months after infection. The patient complains of impairment of sight and of frontal or supraorbital pain. The eye waters and is hypersensitive, the iris is dis- coloured and reacts sluggishly to light, and there is a zone of ciliary congestion around the cornea. The appearance of minute white nodules or flakes of lymph at the margin of the pupil is especially characteristic of syphilitic iritis. When