294 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. operation ”—the procedure was revived by Syme, and has been widely practised by Annandale and others. This method is particularly suitable to all forms of sacculated aneurysm of the limbs, so long as they are tolerably circumscribed and free from complications. It has been successfully practised also in subclavian, carotid, and external iliac aneurysms. It is not appropriate to cases in which there is advanced atheroma of the artery above and below the sac. In the neck and in other situations where a tourniquet cannot be employed, the sac must be incised, and a finger quickly passed into the lumen of the artery so as to plug it and prevent bleeding while the clots are being turned out and the ligatures applied. The risk from haemorrhage renders this one of the most formidable operations of surgery. In the limbs, the circulation is controlled by a tourniquet— preferably that of Petit which can be rapidly slackened and tightened as may be necessary. The aneurysm is freely exposed, and, after the vessel has been ligatured above and below, the sac is opened and the clots turned out. The sac is then dissected away, any vessels coming ofi' from it being ligatured, or it is left to contract according to circumtances. If the vein is adherent to the sac, as is frequently the case, the adhei’ent portion may be removed. Experience proves that the removal of a limited portion of both artery and vein at the same time is not necessarily fallowed by gangrene, so long as infection is excluded. When, on account of adhesions, there is difficulty in applying the ligature to the artery after opening and emptying the sac, a bougie may be passed into the lumen of the vessel and the ligature thrown round it with the aid of an aneurysm needle, the bougie being withdrawn as the ligature is tightened (Annandale). This manoeuvre may be repeated at the distal end. Matas has suggested that, in the case of a sacculated aneurysm, after clearing out the clots, the communication between the artery and the sac should be closed by a series of interrupted sutures passed through the middle and outer coats of the vessel as in arteriorraphy, so as to retain the channel of the artery. The empty sac is then folded over the line of suture, and the cavity obliterated by stitching its walls together. In fusiform aneurysm a rubber tube is temporarily placed in the two openings and along the groove between them, and over this the adjacent part of the sac is sutured as in Witzel’s gastrostomy, the tube being withdrawn before the last sutures are tightened.