' TUMOURS. 210 membrane, hair follicles, sebaceous, sweat, and mucous glands, nails, teeth, nipples, and mammary glands. The cavity of the cyst usually contains a pultaceous mixture of shed epithelium, fluid fat, and hair. If the cyst ruptures, the epithelial elements are diffused over the peritoneum, and may give rise to secondary dermoids. The histogenesis of ovarian dermoids has given rise to considerable difference of opinion. By many they are re- garded as taking origin from the epiblast, and as containing only epiblastic structures; recent observations, and especially those of Askanazy, would appear to show that they may contain tissues derived from all three layers of the embryo, and that no hard and fast line can be drawn between an ovarian dermoid and a teratoma. The ovarian dermoid apjjears clinically as an abdominal or pelvic tumour provided with a pedicle ; if the pedicle become twisted, the tumour undergoes strangulation, an event which is attended with urgent symptoms, not unlike those of strangulated hernia. The treatment of the ovarian dermoid consists in removing the tumour by laparotomy. Teratoma.—A teratoma is distinguished from a^ dermoid not only by its usually containing tissues or structures derived from all of the germinal layers of the embryo, but also by the em- bryonic character of the tissues, by the greater rapidity of their growth, and by their tendency to give rise to metastases. Tera- tomata are believed to result from i^artial dichotomy or cleavage of the trunk axis of the embryo, and are found exclusively in connection with the skull and vertebral column. They include such monstrosities as conjoined twins or parasitic foetus. They are more commonly met with as irregularly shaped tumours, usually growing from the posterior surface of the sacrum. On dissection, these are found to contain a curious mixture of tissues—bones, skin, and portions of viscera, such as the in- testine or liver. The question of the removal of such tumours requires to be considered in relation to the conditions present in ench individual case. Cysts.i Cysts are usually rounded sacs, the wall being composed of fibrous tissue lined by epithelium or endothelium ; the contents are fluid or semi-solid, and vary in character according to the organ or tissue in which the cyst has originated. ^ Cysts which form in relation to new growtlis have been considered with tumoyirs,