DISLOCATIONS IN REGION OF THE WRIST. 501 of the radius, or in association with sub-luxation of the head of the radius. Tlie head of tlie ulna usually passes backward, less frequently forward, and but rarely towards the ulnar side. In children, the commonest cause is lifting the child by the hand, and the displacement, as a rule, is only partial. In adults, it may result from forcible efforts at pronation or supination, as in wringing clothes, or from direct violence, the separation being frequently complete and sometimes compound. The head of the ulna forms a prominence on the dorsal or palmar aspect of the wrist, according to the direction in which it passes, and there is an undue depression on the opposite aspect of the joint. The hand is generally pronated, the rotatory movements at the wTist being restricted and painful, while flexion and extension are comparatively free. When uncom- plicated the dislocation is easily recognised, but when com- [)licated with fracture it is apt to be overlooked. Reduction is readily effected by making direct l»ressure on the displaced bone and manipulating the joint, especially in the direction of supina- tion. Dislocation at the radio-carpal articula- tion, or “ dislocation of the wrist,” is that most commonly met with in this region. It is often complicated by fracture of the lower ends of the bones of the forearm; is attended by great tearing of the ligaments and displacement of tendons; and is frequently compound. The carpus may be displaced backward or forward, and the separation is usually complete. It is not uncommon for that articular edge of the radius towards which the carpus passes to be chipped off. In most cases the carpus is dislocated bachivard, and the injury results from a severe form of violence, such as a fall from a height on the palm while the hand is dorsiflexed and abducted. The clinical appearances closely simulate those of Colles’ fracture, or of separation of the lower radial epiphysis, but the unnatural projections, both in front and behind, are lower down, and end more abruptly (Fig. 153). The hand is more flexed, and the palm is shortened. The styloid j)rocesses retain their normal relations to one another, but that of the radius is nearer to the thumb than it should be, and the carpal bones are found Fig. 153.—Backward Dislocation of Wrist at Radio-Carpal Articulation, in a man set. 24, from a fall of 15 feet, landing on back of knuckles.