DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 533 Differential Diagnosis.—Backward dislocations of the hip are usually easily recognised. When dislocation below the tendon occurs in a very stout i)erson, however, it is liable to be overlooked on account of the difficulty of feeling the displaced bone, and of the comparatively slight amount of deformity present. The nature of the accident, the absence of broadening of the trochanter, and the adduction and inversion of the limb are usually sufficient to prevent a dislocation being mistaken for an impacted e.xtra-capsular fracture. Dislocation into the Obturator Foramen (Fig. 181).—This dislocation is produced by great force ajtplied from behind while the thigh is flexed and abducted, as when a weight falls on the back of a man stooping forward with the legs wide apart. It may also result from violent abduction by wide separation of the thighs. The capsule gives way at its inner and lower part, and the head of the femur comes to rest on the surface of the external obturator muscle, its articular surface looking forward, while the trochanter looks backward. Clinical Features.—The thigh is slightly flexed and abducted, with the foot pointing directly forward or a little outward. The body is bent forward to relax the ilio-psoas muscle and the A-ligament, the foot is advanced and the heel drawn up. It is not uncommon for the patient to be able to walk after the accident, and only to seek advice some time after on account of inability to adduct and extend the limb. There is apparent lengthening of the limb due to tilting of the pelvis downward on the affected side. The hip is flattened, the trochanter less prominent than usual, and the head of the bone may sometimes be felt in its abnormal position. It is doubtful if a rectal examination gives reliable information as to the position of the head of the femur. Dislocation on to the pubes is a further degree of the obturator form (Fig. 181). It is usually produced by forcible hyper- extension and external rotation of the hip, such as occurs when the body is bent back while the thigh remains fixed. The capsule is torn further forward than in the other varieties, and the head rests on the horizontal ramus of the pubes against the ilio-pectineal line. Clinical Featiures.—There is marked eversion, flexion, and abduction, but the shortening is inconsiderable. The ilio-psoas and A-ligament are tense. The head of the femur may be felt in the groin, with the femoral vessels over, or to one or other side of it. There is sometimes pain and numbness in the