METHODS OF WOUND TEEATMENT. 30 There are many ways in which accidental" infection may occur. Take, for example, the case of a person who receives a cut on the face by being knocked down in a carriage accident on the street. Organisms may be introduced to such a wound from the shaft or wheel by which he was struck, from the ground on wEich he lay, from any portion of his clothing which may have come in contact with the wound, or from his own skin. Or, again, the hands of those who render first aid, the water used to bathe the wound, the handkerchief or other extemporised dressing apjdied to it, may be the means of conveying septic infection. Should the wmund open on a mucous surface, such as the mouth or nasal cavity, the organisms constantly present in such situations are liable to prove agents of infection. Even after the patient has come under professional care the risks of his wound becoming infected are not past, because the hands of the surgeon, his instruments, dressings or other appliances may all, unless carefully purified, become the sources of infection. In the case of an operation carried out through unbroken skin, organisms may be introduced into the wound from the patient’s own skin, from the hands of the surgeon or his assist- ants, through the medium of contaminated instruments, swabs, ligature or suture materials, or other things used in the course of the operation, or from the dressings applied to the wound. Further, bacteria may gain access to devitalised tissues by way of the blood-stream, being carried hither from some infected area elsewhere in the body. The sources of wound infection being so numerous, it is little wonder that in former days few wounds of the class now under consideration escaped the ravages of pyogenic or other bacteria, and that inflammation, suppuration, erysipelas, hospital gangrene, and pyaemia were of everyday occurrence in surgical practice. Those who only know the surgical conditions of to-day find it hard to believe that little more than thirty years ago, in a leading article in the Lancet, the writer stated that at that time “ the mortality from compound fractures, amputations, and other operations such as lithotomy is something frightful ” ; that “ death from blood poisoning is not confined to cases of serious operations, but happens ever and anon after operations in themselves trivial. It is lamentable,” says the writer, “ to think of the extent to which the best and most refined surgery of the time is being frustrated, in our great hospitals, and even in those most I’ecently built. The risk of blood poisoning is now the one opprobrium of surgery.”