246 CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURIES. pyogenic infections; with erysipelas, especially when it affects the head or face; or with chronic septic diseases of the urinary organs. In the various forms of meningitis also, and in some cases of injury to the head, it is common; and it is sometimes met with after severe haemorrhage, and in cases of poisoning by such drugs as iodoform, cocaine, or alcohol. Delirium may, of course, be an evidence of insanity. It may assume the form of excitement, of dementia, or of melancholia; and the symptoms are usually worst during the night. Incoherent muttering regarding past incidents or occu- pations, or about absent friends, is a common manifestation of the condition. Delirium Tremens is seen in persons addicted to alcohol who, as a result of accident or operation, are suddenly compelled to lie in bed for some time. Although oftenest met with in habitual drunkards or chronic tipplers, it is by no means uncommon in moderate drinkers, and has even been seen in children. Clinical Features.—The delirium, which has been aptly de- scribed as being of a “busy” character, usually first manifests itself within a few days of the patient being laid up. For two or three days he refuses food, is depressed, suspicious, sleepless and restless, desiring to be allowed out of bed. Then he begins to mutter incoherently, to pull off the bed-clothes, and to attempt to rise. There is general muscular tremor, most marked in the tongue, the lips, and the hands. The patient imagines that he sees all sorts of horrible beings around him, and is sometimes greatly distressed because of rats, mice, beetles, or snakes which he fancies are crawling over him. The pulse is soft, rapid, and compressible; the temperature is only moderately raised (100°- 101° F.), and as a rule there is profuse sweating. The digestion is markedly impaired, and there is often vomiting. Patients in this condition are peculiarly insusceptible to pain, and may even walk about with a fractured leg without apparent discomfort. In most cases the symptoms begin to pass off in three or four days; the patient sleeps, the hallucinations and tremors cease, and he gradually recovers. In other cases the temperature rises, the pulse becomes running, and death results from exhaustion. The main indication in treatment is to secure sleep, and this is done by the administration of bromides, chloral, trional, paraldehyde, or sulphonal. Morphin must be used with great caution. In some cases hyoscin grain) injected hypo- dermically is found efficacious when all other methods have failed, but this drug must be used with great discrimination. The patient must be encouraged to take plenty of easily digested