INJURIES OF BONES. 416 vicinity of joints, particularly the elljow, ankle, wrist, and knee. Not only is pain diminished, the formation of bony callus promoted and union thereby hastened, but the prolonged crippling stiffness which so often follows immobilisation in splints is avoided. The risk of redisplacement of fragments is fonly to be feared in oblique fractures in the shafts of long bones, such as the humerus, femur, or bones of the leg; but even in these situations, by careful fixation of the broken ends while the massage and movements are being carried on, any such ill effects can usually be obviated. Want of union, so far from being a special risk attending this method of treatment, is less liable to occur, if ordinary precautions are taken, than when splints alone are employed. Splints and other Appliances.—The less complicated and sj>ecialised splints are the better. The appropriate splints for individual fractures and the method of applying them will be de.scribed later ; but it may here be said that the general prin- ciple is that when dealing with a part where there is a single bone, as the thigh or upper arm, the sidint should be applied in the form of a ferrule to surround the break ; whereas in situations where there are tw’o or more parallel bones, as in the forearm, leg, metatarsus, or meta- carpus, the splint Fig. 98.—Gooch Splint applied as a “Ferrule” on should take the form Right Upper Arm, asja “Box ” on Left Forearm. gf ^ jyj. (Fig. 98). Simple wooden splints of plain deal board or yellow pine, sawn to the appropriate length and width ; or Gooch's splinting, which consists of long strips of soft wood, glued to a backing of wash leather, are the most useful materials for splints. Gooch’s splinting has the special advantage that when applied with the leather side ne.xt the limb it encircles the part as a ferrule ; while it remains rigid when the wooden side is turned towards the skin (Fig. 98). Perforated sheet lead or tin, stiff wire netting, and hoop iron also form useful splints. When it is desirable that the splint should take the shape of the part accurately, a plastic material may be employed. Perhaps the most convenient is poroplastic felt, which consists of strong felt saturated with resin. When heated before a strong fire or placed in boiling water, it becomes quite plastic, and may be accurately moulded to any part, and on cooling again becomes rigid. The splint should be cut from a carefully