SYPHILIS. 162 Diagnosis of Primary Syphilis.—In typical cases where there is a clear history of an incubation period of from three to five weeks since infection, when the sore is indurated, persistent, and in- dolent, and attended with bullet-buboes in the groin, the diagnosis of primary syphilis is not difficult. It is important to bear in mind the possibility of a patient having acquired a mixed in- fection with the virus of soft chancre, which will manifest itself a few days after infection, and the virus of syphilis, which will show itself after an interval of several weeks. This occurrence was formerly the source of much confusion in diagnosis, and it was believed at one time that syphilis might result from soft sores, but we now know that syphilis does not follow upon soft sores unless the virus of syphilis has been introduced at the same time. The practitioner must be on his guard, therefore, when a patient asks his advice concerning a venereal sore which has appeared within a few days of exposure to infection. Such a patient is naturally anxious to know whether he has contracted syphilis or not, but neither a positive nor a negative answer can be given until the incubation period of syphilis has elapsed— that is, until after an interval of four or five weeks. Syphilis is also to be diagnosed from epithelioma, the common form of cancer of the penis. It is especially in elderly patients with a tight prepuce that one is liable to mistake the induration of epithelioma for that associated with syphilis. In difficult cases the prepuce must be slit open, or the i>atient kept under observation until the effects of treatment can be ascertained, as the chancre readily yields to anti-syphilitic remedies. Difficulty may occur in the diagnosis of primary syphilis from herpes, as this may appear as late as ten days after connection; it commences as a group of vesicles which soon burst and leave shallow ulcers with a yellow fioor; these disappear quickly on the use of “an antiseptic dusting powder. Apprehensive patients who have committed sexual indiscretions are apt to regard as syphilitic any lesion which happens to be located on the penis—for example, acne pustules, eczema, psoriasis papules, boils, balanitis, or venereal warts. Treatment of Primary Syphilis.—Reference may be made in the first instance to the question of excising or destroying the primary lesion with a view to preventing general infection. As a matter of fact, this question very rarely arises in practice, because by the time the chancre has sufficiently developed to be diagnosed with certainty, the virus has already entered the lymphatics. When the chancre is situated on the prepuce, however, it may be an advantage to perform circumcision, but