597 PYOGENIC DISEASES OF BONE. first referred to several bones, later becoming localised in one; they are aggravated by movement, or by handling the bone, and are worst at night. There is redness and oedema of the overlying soft parts, and swelling with vague fluctuation over the bone, and on incision there escapes a yellow creamy pus, or a brown syrupy fluid containing the typhoid bacillus in pure culture. Necrosis is exceptional. When the abscess develops very slowly, the condition may resemble tuberculous disease of the bone, from which it may be diagnosed by the history of typhoid, and bacteriological examination of the })us. The prognosis is favourable, but recovery is apt to be slow, and relapse is not uncommon. It is usually sufiicient to incise the periosteum, but when the disease occurs in the ribs it may be necessary to resect portions of these bones. Pyogenic Diseases of Bone due to Spread of Infection from the Soft Parts.—There still remain for discussion those forms of osteomyelitis which re- sult from direct infection through a wound involving the bone—for example, compound fractures, gun-shot injuries, osteotomies, amputations, resections, or operations for un-united fracture. In all of these the marrow is exposed to in- fection by such organisms as may be present in the wound. A similar form of osteomyelitis may occur apart from a wound, for example, in the case of the jaws the infection may spread to the bone from lesions of the mouth; in the skull, from lesions of the scalp or of the cranial bones themselves—-such as a syphilitic gumma or a .sarcoma which has fungated externally ; and in the case of the petrous temporal, from suppuration in the middle ear. The lesions included in this group have become much rarer since the introduction of Listerian surgery; in former times the disease was commonly met with as is evidenced by the Fig. 221.—New Periosteal Bone on Surface of Femur from Amputation Stump. Osteomyelitis supervened on the amputation and resulted in necrosis at the sawn section of tlie bone. (Anatomical Museum of Uni- versity of Edinburgh.)