34 METHODS OF WOUND TKEATMENT. temperature, and rapid pulse, and mental depression or excitement. These symptoms seem more prone to occur when the drug is used in tissues rich in fat, and especially when the fine powder is employed, this being more readily absorbed than the crystalline form. Iodoform may be detected in the urine of such patients by adding an equal quantity of concentrated hydrochloric acid, and pouring on the surface a little chloride of lime solution. At the junction of the fluids there forms a brown ring, which turns blue on the addition of starch solution. Some persons show a peculiar idiosyncrasy with regard to their local reaction to iodoform, an acute spreading erythematous or pustular rash, with intense itching, developing from the slightest contact with it. Marked constitutional symjitoms may accompany these local manifesta- tions. In some patients persistent vomiting is induced by the smell of the drug. Aristol, although inferior to iodoform, is preferred by some on account of its less offensive and less persistent odour. Disinfection of the Hands.—It is now generally recognised that one of the most fertile sources of wound infection is the hands of the surgeon and his assistants. In the exigencies of surgical practice it is hardly possible for the surgeon consistently to avoid contaminating his hands with septic material, and once they are so contaminated it is extremely difficult again to render them germ-free. It is only by carefully studying to avoid all contact with infective matter that the hands can be kept surgically pure and that this source of wound infection can be reduced to a minimum. To aid in this, india-rubber gloves should be worn while operating on septic cases, such as suppurative cellulitis, osteomyelitis, suppurative ajjpendicitis, or other con- ditions associated with j^us formation, in making rectal or vaginal examinations, or in dressing suppurating wounds. It has been shown that if the hands be kept free of septic material for a sufficiently long period, they can for all jrractical purposes be rendered germ-free by ordinary methods of purification. It is of the utmost importance that any septic matter with which the hands may accidentally become defiled should not be allowed to dry on them, but should be washed off at once, and for this purpose 1 in 1000 corrosive sublimate appears to be the best lotion to employ. The most important step in the disinfection of the hands is the mechanical removal of gross surface dirt and loose epithelium by soap, a stream of running water, and a loofah or nail-brush. Various forms of soft soap, as well as soda, turpentine, lysol, and other substances, may be used to remove grease and gross dirt from the skin. Pumice-stone soap is useful in rubbing off the loose epithelium. Of the various methods which have been suggested for purifying the hands before operating we have found the modification of Fiirbringer’s process suggested by Leedham-