WOUNDS BY FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES. 223 extensive than appears at first sight, and that in many cases it is only possible to estimate the real extent of the injury by administering an anfesthetic and exploring the wound. In doubtful cases the possibility of rendering the parts aseptic will often decide the question for or against amputation. If thorough purification is accomplished, the success which attends conservative measures is often remarkable. It is permissible to run an amount of risk to save an upper extremity which would be quite unjustifiable in the case of a lower limb. The age and occupation of the patient must also be taken into account. When it is decided to make the attempt- to save the limb the wound must be carefully and thoroughly purified. If necessary it may be enlarged, so that all bruised tissue in which gross dirt has become engrained may be clipped away with scissors. The raw surface .should be thoroughly clean.sed with sterilised salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. All rough scrubbing with strong antiseptics is to be avoided, as being only calculated to depress the vitality of the tissues without increasing the prob- ability of rendering the wound aseptic. The wound .should be left unstitched, freely drained or packed with gauze, and im- mobilised by suitable splints. When granulations have formed, skin-grafting may hasten the healing of the wound. Wounds by Firearms and Explosives. The present consideration of gun-shot wounds refers chiefly to such injuries as are met with in civil practice. The subject will be dealt with under the following heads:—Pistol-.shot wounds, wounds by sporting-guns, wounds by rifle-bullets, and shell wounds. Whatever the nature of the weapon, the wound is of the contused and lacerated variety. Its severity depends on the size, shape, and velocity of the missile, the range at which the weapon is discharged, and the part of the body struck. Shock is a prominent feature in most cases of gun-shot wound, but its degree, as well as the time of its onset, varies with the extent and seat of the injury, and with the mental state of the patient when shot. At the moment of injury the patient experiences a sensation which is variously described as being like i the lash of a whip, a blow with a stick, or an electric shock. There is not much pain at first, but later it may become severe, and is usually associated with intense thirst, especially when much blood has been lost. Recent experience has shown that even in active warfare the