438 INJURIES OF JOINTS. bones of the joint, as well as by laceration of muscles, tendons, and blood-vessels. In the region of the ankle, wrist, and joints of the thumb, however, compound dislocation is sometimes met with uncomplicated by other lesions. The great risk is septic infection, which may result in serious impairment of the use- fulness of the joint or even in its complete destruction, results towards which the concomitant injuries materially contribute. In many instances where septic infection has occurred, ankylosis is the best result that can be hoped for. Treatment. — As a rule the first question that arises is whether amputation is necessary or not, and the considerations which determine this point are the same as in the case of com- pound fractures (p. 419). When an attempt is to be made to save the limb the dislocation is reduced after the parts have been thoroughly purified. In many cases excision of portions of bone is necessary to ensure asepsis or to permit of reduction. Drainage- tubes are inserted, the rest of the wound closed, and a retentive apparatus applied, provision being made for the dressing of the wound. Dislocation complicated by Fracture.—In certain dislocations the separation of small portions of bones or of epiphyses is of almost constant occurrence—for example, fracture of the coronoid process in dislocation of the elbow backwards, and chqjping ofi' of a portion of the edge of the acetabulum in dislocation of the hip. These neither add to the difficulties of diagnosis nor necessitate any modification of the treatment, and they need not be further referred to. The commonest example of a fracture comialicating a dis- location is fracture of the neck of the humerus coexisting with dislocation of the shoulder. Here the difficulty of diagnosis is greatly increased, and the treatment of both injuries requires to be modified. The dislocation must be reduced—by operation if necessary—before the fracture is treated, and in many cases it is advisable to secure the fragments of the broken bone by wires, pegs, or screws, to enable movement to be commenced early, and so to prevent stiffness of the joint. Old-standing Dislocations.—When, from oversight or from unsuccessful treatment, a dislocation is left for some time unre- duced, changes take place in and around the joint which render replacement by manipulation extremely difficult or imjjossible. The rent in the capsule closes upon the neck of the bone, and fibrous adhesions form between muscles, tendons, and other structures which have been torn. The articular cartilage of the