722 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREIMITIES marked lordosis of the lumbar spine (Fig. 276). The si^ine is also curved laterally with the concavity to the affected side. The lordosis partially disappears when the child lies on its back, and the scoliosis disappears on equali.sing the length of the limbs by placing a flat object, such as a book, under the sole. The limb can be moved freely in all directions except abduction. In young children, if the pelvis is fixed, the head of the bone may be made to glide upwards and downwards on the ilium. Jn bilateral dislocation there is a more j^ronounced alteration in the attitude and gait of the patient. The trunk appears well grown in contrast to the short lower limbs, the lordosis of the lumbar spine is very marked, and is associated with undue prominence of the belly and of the buttocks. The gait is waddling, like that of a duck, the trunk lurching from one side to the other with each step. In all cases, the deformity and disability become more and more pronounced as the capsular and round ligaments become further stretched by the weight of the body. With increasing years, therefore, the shortening and limp become more marked, the patient .suffers from fatigue and pain on using the limb, and .so may be unable to undertake any occupation involving much standing or walking. The sooner the affection is recognised and treated the greater is the prospect of cure. The diagnosis, except in infants who are very fat, is easy. In coxa vara (p. 725), the limb is shortened and the trochanter is displaced upwards, but the head of the femur may be felt to be in the acetabulum, and cannot be made to move up and down ; the limb is rotated out, and abduction is even more restricted than in dislocation. In the flail joint of infantile paralysis, the resemblance to congenital dislocation may be very close; the muscles, however, are more wasted and are slack, and the normal attitude can be more easily restored by pulling on the limb. If a careful examination is made, there should be no difficulty in differentiating the condition from hip disease. Both for purposes of diagnosis and treatment the X-rays are of great value (Fig. 271). Treatment.—The most rational and satisfactory treatment is to reduce the dislocation by manipulation, or, if this ideal result is not attainable, to displace the head of the bone into such a position that it will no longer glide upwards on the ilium. Paci, Schede, Mikulicz, Lorenz, and Hoffa have .specially developed the treatment of congenital dislocation on these lines. Reduction by Manipulation. — The child is anaesthetised;