91 SKIN-GRAFTING. six or eight inches long by one or two inches broad can readily be cut. The strips of epithelium thus obtained are directly transferred to the surface prepared for them, for which they should be made to form a complete carpet, slightly overlapping the edges of the sore and of one another. Firm pressure is then made with a pad of gauze over the grafts to express blood and air-bubbles, and to ensure accurate api>osition. Some difference of opinion exists regarding the best dressing. It would appear that when the grafts are ap[)lied to a fresh raw surface, and when there is no reason to anticipate any discharge, a dry, aseptic gauze dressing is most appropriate, or the same gauze smeared with sterilised vaseline. When the grafts are applied to a granulating surface, however, and when there may be doubt as to its })erfect asepticity, perforated pro- tective should be applied. When it is feasible—for example, on the face or limbs of adults who will remain still during the after-treatment—we have found that it is best not to apply any dressing over the grafts, which are left freely exposed and only protected by a wire cage or shield such as is used after vaccination. The surface from which the grafts have been taken is covered with a dry gauze dressing, or with a dressing of picric acid such as is used for superficial burns. It is often difficult to decide when the dressing should be changed. In cases where a dry dressing has been employed it may be left in position for from seven to ten days, by which time the grafts have united. It may then be replaced by a dressing of weak boracic ointment or lanoline. When a pro- tective dressing is used it must be changed every third or fourth day until the grafts become fixed, after which an ointment dressing is substituted. In all cases the utmost gentleness and care are necessary to avoid disturbance of the adhesions between the grafts and the ulcer. After grafting leg ulcers, prolonged rest in the recumbent position is imperative, to obviate the tendency of the cicatrix to break down when the limb is allowed to hang. The limb should not be used for walking within two or three months of being grafted. The new skin is at first insensitive and is fixed to the under- lying tissue, but in course of time new nerve fibres grow into it and sensation is restored, and the development of elastic tissue in the deeper part of the cicatrix renders it pliable and movable. Skin-grafting proper consists in transplanting portions of