PHLEBITIS. 273 Phlebitis.—Various forms of phlebitis are met with, but for practical purposes they may be divided into two groups—one in which there is little or no tendency towards suppuration; the other in which the suppurative element predominates. In surgical patients, the nonsuppurative form is almost in- variably met with in the lower extremity, and usually occurs in those who are debilitated and anaemic, and who are confined to bed for prolonged periods—for example, during the treat- ment of fractures of the leg or pelvis, or after such opera- tions as herniotomy, prostatectomy, or those performed for appendicitis Clinical Features.—The most typical example of this form of l)hlebitis is tluit so frequently met with in the internal saphena vein, especially when it is varicose. The onset of the attack is usually indicated by a sudden and severe pain in the lower limb —sometimes below, sometimes above the knee. This initial pain may be associated with shivering or even with a rigor, and the temperature usually rises one or two degrees. There is marked swelling and tenderness along the line of the affected vein, and the skin over it is a dull-red or pur})le colour. The swollen vein may be felt as a firm cord, with bead-like enlargements in the position of the valves. The patient experiences a feeling of stiffness and tightness through the limb. There is often (edema of the leg and foot, especially when the limb is in the dependent l)Osition. The acute symptoms pass off in a few days, but the swelling and tenderness of the vein and the oedema of the limb may last for many weeks. When the deep veins—iliac, femoral, popliteal—are involved there is usually great swelling of the whole limb, which is of a firm, almost “wooden” consistence, and of a pale-white colour. This is most often seen in puerperal women, and is known as phlegmasia alba dolens. Treatment. — The patient must be placed at absolute rest with the foot of the bed raised on blocks ten or twelve inches high and the limb immobilised by sand-bags or splints. It is necessary to avoid handling the parts, lest the clot be disj^laced and embolism occur. To avoid frequent movement of the limb, the necessary dressings should be kept in position by means of a many-tailed rather than a roller bandage. To relieve the pain, warm fomentations, or lead and opium lotion, should be applied. Later, glycerin and belladonna, or ichthyol glycerin, may be substituted. When, at the end of three weeks, the danger of embolism is past, douching and gentle massage may be employed to disperse VOL. I—18