METHODS OF WOUND TREATMENT. 32 To prevent contamination of objects which have been sterilised, they must be conveyed directly from the steriliser to the wound, on no account being touched by any one whose hands have not been disinfected and protected by sterilised gloves. Sterilisation hy Chemical Agents.—For the purification of the skin of the patient, the hands of the surgeon, and knives and other instruments which are damaged by heat, recourse must be had to chemical disinfecting agents. These, however, are less reliable than heat, and are open to certain other objections which will be referred to later. In selecting from the enormous number of chemical antiseptic agents at our disposal that which is most suitable for a given case, consideration must be had to the following points :—(1) The object in view—whether to prevent septic infection or to eradicate it, and if the latter, the degree of virulence of the existing process; (2) the irritant action, toxicity, and absorb- ability of the drug; (3) the susceptibility to irritation and absorptive power of the surface to which it is to be applied ; and (4) the action of the substance upon surgical instruments. Carbolic Acid.—This agent is of much historical interest, being that employed by Lord Lister when he first introduced the antiseptic system in 1867. In a field of a hundred competitors it still remains one of our most reliable antiseptics. The lotion is made by dissolving the crystals of the pure acid in water in the proportion of 1 in 20, 1 in 40, or 1 in 60. It is a reliable germicide, has a marked power of penetrating the tissues, and has no deleterious action upon metal instruments. On the other hand, it is irritating to the tissues, and induces a considerable oozing of serum from raw surfaces. If absorbed, it acts as a general poison, the first sign of its toxic effects being discoloration of the urine, which is olive-green when passed, but changes to black on standing. If absorption goes on, giddiness, nausea, and vomiting are induced. The patient may become profoundly collapsed, with a small, rapid pulse and subnormal temperature, and may ultimately die. Such accidents have occurred from absorption through unbroken skin where a compress of carbolic solution has been applied preparatory to operation, and are most to be feared in children and females with tender skin. The phenol products may be detected in the urine by adding to it a few drops of perchloride of iron solution, which gives a blue colour ; or a small quantity of bromine water, which throws down a whitish pre- cipitate of tribromophenol. Pure carbolic acid (phenol), when applied to a raw surface, does not produce symptoms of poisoning, as it causes coagulation necrosis of the superficial layers of the tissue, and this prevents its being absorbed. The application of wet compresses of carbolic lotion to the fingers and toes is to be avoided, especially in women and children, on account of the risk of inducing gangrene. Corrosive Sublimate.—This lotion is made by dissolving the crystals of perchloride of merciu'y in distilled water. It is used in strengths varying from 1 in 500 to 1 in 5000 ; that usually employed being 1 in