TENO-SYNOVITIS. 393 what is more characteristic, a peculiar crunching sensation from the movement of the melon-seed bodies against one another. In the sheath of the peronei or other tendons about the ankle the swelling is sausage-shaped, and is constricted opposite the annular ligament. The onset and progress of the affection are most insidious, and the condition may remain stationary for long periods. It is aggravated by use or strain of the tendons involved. In exceptional cases the skin is thinned and gives way, leading to the formation of a discharging sinus. The prognosis is influenced by the general con- dition of the patient and the existence of tuberculous lesions elsewhere. Treatment. — In the common flexor sheaths of the palm, an attempt may be made to cure the condition by removing the contents through a small incision and filling the cavity with iodoform emulsion. The distended sheath is laid open, the contents removed, the wall scraped and swabbed out with pure carbolic acid, and the wound closed. During the after treatment it is important to maintain movement of the fingers. A less common form of tuber- culous disease is that in which the sheath becomes the seat of a diffuse tuberculous thickening, not unlike the white swelling met with in joints, and with a similar tendency to caseation. There is an absence of fluid and of melon-seed bodies. A painless swelling of an elastic character forms in relation to the tendon sheath. It is hour-glass-shaped in the common flexor sheath of the palm, elongated or sausage-shaped in the extensors of the wrist and in the tendons at the ankle. Although resembling the previous form in being slow in progress and of long duration, it is more liable to result in invasion of the tendons and interference with their functions. It is also more liable to break down and lead to the formation of abscesses and sinuses, and in our experience is more often associated with disease in an adjacent bone or joint. In the peronei tendons, for example, it may result from disease of the fibula or of the ankle-joint. As a rule the diagnosis is easy, but the local appearances closely resemble those of innocent tumours of tendon sheaths. Fig. 88.—Tuberculous Disease of Sheaths of Flexor Tendons. (Hr. J. M. Cotterill’s case.)