614 DISEASES OF BONE. yielding of the softened bones under the weight of the body. Scoliosis is the usual type of spinal curvature, and in extreme cases it may lead to a pronounced form of hump-back. The pelvis may simply remain small {justa-minor pelvis), or it may be contracted in the sagittal plane {flat pelvis); when the bones are unusually soft, the acetabular portions are j^ushed inwards by the femora bearing the weight of the body, and the pelvis assumes the shape of a trefoil, as in the malacia of adult women. In the lower extremities the shaft of the femur is curved forwards and outwards; the bones of the leg outwards as in bow-leg (Fig. 289), or forwards, or forwards and outwards just above the ankle. The deformities at the knee (genu valgum, genu varum, and genu recurvatum), and at the hip (coxa vara), will be described with deformities. Clinical Features.—Although rickets may be met with at or soon after birth, it is usually not until the child is three or four months old that the disease manifests itself, and sometimes not until the second year. The mother notices that the child per- spires excessively during sleep, especially about the head, it is restless and throws off the clothes, is disinclined to be moved, and cries unless very gently handled. Its muscles become soft and flabby, and it is liable to attacks of diarrhcea and of bronchial catarrh. Dentition is delayed, and the teeth are apt to appear in the wrong order. The child is late in learning to walk. On examination there is no difficulty in recognising the changes in the skeleton which have already been described. The cranium is oftenest affected in young infants; the spine, thorax, and arms in those a little older; and the lower extremities in children in whom the disease has developed comparatively late. The abdomen is prominent, partly from flatulent distension of the bowels, partly from downward displacement of the liver which is sometimes enlarged, and from w'eakness of the belly walls; it appears larger from contrast with the contracted chest. The spleen may be enlarged. The weakness of the muscles of the trunk and limbs may be so pronounced as to excite the suspicion of a lesion of the spinal cord; and there may be an increased excitability of the central nervous system, shown by the occurrence of laryngismus stridulus or of general convulsions. Rickety children present little resistance to infective diseases, and readily succumb, especially to pulmonary and intestinal tuberculosis. The progress of the disease is slow and inter- mittent, and varies with the age of the child, its surroundings, and the treatment employed; it may pass off in a few weeks, or may drag on for months or even years.