INJUEIES. 381 movements of the arm. Sometimes the effort is one that would scarcely be thought likely to rupture a muscle, as in the case recorded by PagenStecher, where a professional athlete, while sitting at table, ru})tured his biceps in a sudden effort to catch a falling glass. It would appear that the rupture is brought about not so much by the contraction of the muscle concerned, as by the contraction of the antagonistic muscles taking place before that of the muscle which undergoes rupture is completed. The violent mu.scular contractions of epilepsy, tetanus, or delirium rarely cause rupture. The clinical features are usually characteristic. The patient experiences a sudden pain, with a sensation of being struck with a whip, and of something giving way ; sometimes a distinct snap is heard. The limb becomes poweidess. At the seat of rupture there is tenderness and swelling, and there may be ecchymosis. As the swelling subsides a gaj) may be felt between the retracted ends, and this becomes wider when the muscle is thrown into contraction. If untreated, a hard, fibrous cord may be felt at the seat of rupture. Treatment.—The ends are approximated by placing the limb in an attitude which relaxes the muscle, and the position is maintained by bandages, splints, or special apparatus. Where it is impossible thus to apjrroximate the ends satisfactorily, the muscle or tendon is exposed by incision, and- the ends brought into accurate contact by catgut sutures. This operation of primary suture yields the most satisfactory results and is most successful when it is done within five or six days of the accident. Secondary suture after an interval of months is rendered difficult by the retraction of the ends and by their adhesion to adjacent structures. Rupture of the biceps of the arm may involve the long or the short head, or the belly of the muscle. Most interest attaches to rupture of the long tendon of origin. There is pain and tenderness in front of the humeru.s, the patient is unable to abduct or to elevate the arm, and he may be unable to Hex the elbow when the forearm is supinated. The long axis of the muscle, instead of being parallel with the humerus, inclines downwards and outwards. When the patient is asked to con- tract the muscle, its belly is seen to be displaced towards the elbow. The quadriceps extensor femori.s is usually ruptured close to its insertion into the patella, in the attempt to save one’s self from falling backwards. The injury is sometimes bilateral. The injured limb is rendered useless for progression, as it