THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 274 the oedema; and when the patient gets up he should wear a sup- porting elastic bandage. The suppurative form usually begins as a peri-phlebitis arising in connection with some septic focus in the adjacent tissues. The elements of the vessel wall are destroyed by suppuration, and the thrombus in its lumen becomes infected with pyogenic bacteria and undergoes softening. In some cases the organisms reach the throrfftnis directly from the blood-stream, in others from infected ligatures or instruments—as, for example, in operations for varicose veins or haemorrhoids. Portions of the softened thrombus are very liable to become detached and to enter the circulating blood, in which they are carried as septic emboli. These may lodge in distant parts and give rise to secondary foci of suppuration—pyaemic abscesses (p. 69). _ Clinical Features.—Suppurative phlebitis is most frequently met mth in the lateral sinus as a sequel to chronic suppuration in the mastoid antrum and middle ear. It also occurs in relation to the peripheral veins, but in these it can seldom be recognised as a separate entity, being merged in the general septic process from which it takes origin. Its occurrence may be inferred, if in the course of a suppurative lesion there is a sudden rise of temperature, with pain, redness, and swelling along the line of a venous trunk, and a rapidly developed oedema of the limb, with pitting of the skin on pressure. In rare cases a localised abscess forms in the vein and points towards the surface. Treatment.—In the case of the peripheral veins attention must be directed towards the septic condition with which the phlebitis is associated. In some cases—for example, in septic compound fractures—the occurrence of suppurative phlebitis may necessitate amputation of the limb. Ligature of the vein on the cardiac side of the thrombus with a view to preventing embolism is seldom feasible in the peripheral veins, although, as will be pointed out later, the jugular vein may be ligatured with this object in cases of phlebitis of the lateral sinus. Vaeix—Vaetcose Veins. The term varix is applied to a condition of veins in which they are so altered in structure that they remain permanently dilated, and are at the same time lengthened and tortuous. Two types of varix are met with : one in which dilatation of a large superficial vein and its tributaries is the most obvious feature; the other, in which bunches of distended and tortuous vessels