635 DEFINITION OF TEEMS. nature. According to its etiology, arthritis may or may not be attended with etfusion into the joint. When effusion is present it may be serous, as in arthritis deformans, or sero-tibrinous or purulent, as in certain forms of pyogenic and tuberculous arthritis. Wasting of the muscles in the vicinity of the joint is a constant accompaniment of arthritis. It affects especially the extensor muscles, is quantitative rather than degenerative, and the muscles do not show the reaction of degeneration. On account of the involvement of the articular surfaces, arthritis is apt to be followed by one or other form of ankylosis. The term empyema is sometimes employed to indicate that the cavity of the joint is full of jms. It is observed chiefly in chronic suppurative disease of pyogenic or tuberculous origin, and is usually attended with the formation of abscesses outside the joint. Ulceration of cartilage and caries of the articular sxmfaces are common accompaniments of the more serious and progressive forms of joint disease, especially those of bacterial origin. The destruction of the cartilage is usually })receded by the formation of granulation tissue derived from the synovial membrane or from the bone marrow; the granulation tissue eats into and replaces the cartilage, giving rise to defects or holes, which are spoken of as ulcers. Ulceration of cartilage and articular caries represent successive stages in the same destructive process, the disappearance of the cartilage being followed by exposure and di.sintegration of the subjacent bone. The occurrence of ulceration of cartilage and of articular caries is always attended with rigidity of the joint from involuntary muscular contraction, with marked wasting of muscles, and with starting pains. These starting pains are the result of sudden involuntary movements of the joint, and they occur most frequently just as the patient is dropping off to sleep. The muscles becoming relaxed the sensitive ulcerated surfaces are allowed to jar on one another, this causes sudden reflex contraction of the muscles, and the result- ing movement being attended with severe pain wakens the patient with a start. Advanced articular caries is usually associated with some abnormal attitude and shortening of the limb, and sometimes with dislocation. It may be possible under anaesthesia to feel crumbling bony surfaces grate upon one another. When all the constituent elements of a joint are damaged or destroyed, it is said to be disorganised. Should recovery take place, repair is usually attended with union of the opposing articular surfaces either by fibrous tissue or by bone.