687 THE HIP-JOINT. fold indicates a degree of flexion at the hip which might other- wise escape notice. Pain is complained of in the hip, or is referred to the inner side of the knee in the distribution of the obturator nerve. Sometimes the }>ain is confined to the knee, and if the examination is restricted to that joint the disease at the hip may be overlooked. At this stage the attitude of the limb is not constant; at one time it may be quite natural, and at another slightly flexed or abducted. Tenderness of the joint may be elicited either in front or behind the head of the bone, but is of little diagnostic importance. Pain elicited on driving the head against the acetabulum may occasionally assist in the recognition of hijj disease, but the diagnostic value of this sign has been overrated. Most information is gained by testing the functions of the joint, and if this is done gently and without jerking, there is no complaint of pain. To reassure the child the movements should be first [)ractised on the sound limb. The child should lie on his back, either on his nurse’s knee or on a table. On slowly flexing the thigh of the affected limb, it will be found that the range of flexion at the hip is soon exhausted, and that any further movement in this direction takes place at the lumbo-sacral junction. The child is next made to lie on his face with the knees flexed in order to te.st the movements of rotation. The thigh is rotated outwards and inwards, and on comparing the two sides it will be found that rotation is restricted or abolished on the side affected, any apparent rotation taking place at the lumbo-sacral junction. These tests reveal the presence of rigidity resulting from the involuntary contraction of muscles, which is the most reliable sign of hip disease during the initial stage. This procedure has the advantage of being universally applicable, even in the ca.se of very young children. If there should still exist any doubt as to the presence of hip disease, the examina- tion should be repeated from week to week until a definite conclusion is arrived at. Second Stage. —This probably corresponds with commencing disease of the articular surfaces, and progressive involvement of all the structures of the joint. The patient presents more evident symptoms, and usually exhibits the attitude of abduc- tion, eversion, and flexion (Fig. 260) which, although character- istic of the second stage of the disease, is not constant; as one or other of the abnormal attitudes may predominate or may be entirely wanting. At first the abnormal attitude is maintained entirely by the