THE LYMPHATICS. .311 sequent lactation or of a cancer ai)poaring in the breast later in life, the glands are again developed. Glands which have been removed by operation are readily re-formed, and after some time tlie newly formed glands are not distinguishal)le from the original ones. Anatomical Distribution of Glands.—The more inijiortant groups of glands, and the areas which they drain, in the head and neck and in the upper and lower extremities, are as follows :— Head and Neck. — 2'h,e parotid or pre-auricular ijlands lie l)eneath the parotid fascia in front of the ear, and some are partly embedded in the substance of the parotid gland ; tliey drain the parts about the tenijde, cheek, eyelids, and auricle. The occipital gland, situated over the origin of the trapezius from tlie superior curved line, drains the top and back of the head. The mastoid or posterior auricular glarids lie over the mastoid jirocess, and drain the side of the head and auricle. These three groups pour their lymph into the cervical glands. The submaxillary—two to six in number—lie along the lower border of the jaw from the symphysis to the angle, the posterior ones being closely connected with the submaxillary salivary gland. They receive lynijih from the face, lijis, floor of the mouth, gums, teeth, anterior part of tongue, and the alae nasi, and from the jire-aurioular glands. The lym])h passes from them into the deeper cervical glands. The submental gland lies in the middle line between the anterior bellies of the digastric muscles, and receives lymjih from the lips. The supira-hyoid lies a little farther back, immediately above the hyoid bone, and receives lymph from the tongue. The external jugular glands lie along the external jugular vein. They are not always ju’esent. They receive lymph from the occipital and mastoid glands and from the auricle. The sterno- mastoid glands—glandulae coheatinatae—form a chain along the jjosterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle, some of them lying beneath the muscle. They are commonly enlarged in constitutional syphilis. The internal jugular glands, commonly called the deep cervical,—from six to twenty in number,—form a continuous chain along the internal jugular vein, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. They drain the various groups of glands which lie nearer the surface, also the interior of the skull, larynx, trachea, thyroid, and lower part of the pharynx. They pour their lymph into the main lymphatic trunks at the root of the neck. Belonging to this group is one large gland which lies behind the posterior belly of the digastric, and rests in the angle between the internal jugular and common facial veins. It is commonly enlarged in affections of the tonsil and posterior part of the tongue. Belonging to the same group are three or four glands which lie entirely under cover of the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and surround the spinal accessory nerve before it perforates the muscle. The supra-elameular glands lie in the posterior triangle, above the clavicle. They receive lymph from the lowest cervical glands, from the upper part of the chest wall, and from the highest axillary glands. They are frequently infected in cancer of the breast; those on the left side also in cancer of the stomach. The retro-pharyngeal glands lie on each side of the middle line upon the rectus cajntis anticus major muscle and in front of the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia. They receive part of the lymph from the posterior wall of the pharynx, the interior of the nose and its accessory cavities, the Eustachian tube, and the tympanum. When they are infected with pus organisms or with tubercle bacilli they may lead to the formation of one form of retro-pharyngeal abscess. Upper Extremity.— The epi-trochlear and ante-cubital glands vary in