660 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Syphilitic Diseases of Joints. Syphilitic affections of joints are comparatively rare, but it is probable that their frequency has been underestimated, many cases being incorrectly diagnosed. As in tuberculosis, the disease may occur primarily in the synovial membrane, or may be secondary to disease in one of the adjacent bones. In the secondary stage of acquired syqqhilis the disease usually assumes the form of a serous synovitis—sometimes called syphilitic rheumatism—the joint becoming swollen, hot, and painful, and there may be a certain amount of fever. A chronic effusion or hydrops is met with almost exclusively in the knee; it is frequently bilateral, and is very insidious in its onset and progress, the patient usually being able to go about. Both the synovitis and the hydrops closely resemble the corresponding lesions resulting from gonorrhoea, but they rapidly and completely disappear under anti-syphilitic treatment. In the tertiary stage the joint-lesions are more persistent and destructive, and consist in the formation of gummata, either in the deeper layers of the synovial membrane, or in the adjacent bone or periosteum. Peri-synovial and peri-bursal gummata are often met with in relation to the knee-joint of adults of middle age, especially females. They are usually multiple; they develop very slowly, and they are rarely sensitive or painful. The patient may not apply for advice until the gummata have broken down and given rise to tertiary ulcers (Fig. 37). The simultaneous presence of indolent swellings, ulcers, and depressed scars over the knee-joint is very characteristic of syphilis. Before the gummata have broken down the condition may closely resemble tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane, but in the syphilitic affection the swelling is nodular, uneven, and irregular, and if the skin becomes red and tender, there is not the decided liquefaction and fluctuation met with in tuberculosis. Syphilitic osteoarthritis results from gummata in the peri- osteum or marrow of the adjacent bones. There is a gradual enlargement of one or other of the bones, the patient complains of pains, which are worst at night, and at this stage the diagnosis from sarcoma may be very difficult. The disease may extend to the synovial membrane and be attended with effusion into the joint, or it may erupt on the periosteal surface and invade the skin, forming one or more sinuses. The further progress is com^ilicated by the occurrence of pyogenic infection leading to necrosis of bone. In the knee-joint, the patella, or one of the