NEUROMATA. 339 mata is applied. . These tumours are very rare, and are chiefly met with in the main cords or abdominal plexuses of the sym- pathetic system of children or young adults. They may be solitary or multiple, circumscribed or difl'used, and they are quite insensitive. Being usually innocent, their removal is only called for if they cause inconvenience. The fahe neuromata are connective-tissue overgrowths of the sheaths of nerves. This overgrowth may result in the formation of a circumscribed tumour, or may take the form of a diffuse fibromatosis. The circumscrihed or solitary tumours grow from the sheaths of nerves which are otherwise healthy, and they may be innocent or malignant.' The innocent forms are usually fibrous or myxomatous, and are definitely encapsulated. They may become cystic as a result of hiemorrhage or of myxomatous degeneration. They grow very slowly, are usually elliptical in shape, and the solid forms are rarely larger than a hazel nut. The nerve fibres may be spread out all round the tumour, or may run only on one side of it. When subcutaneous and related to the smaller un- named cutaneous nerves they are known as painftd subcutaneous nodules or tubercles. These are chiefly met with in the lower extremities, and especially in women. They are remarkably sensitive, even gentle handling causing intense pain, which usually radiates to the peri})hery of the nerve affected. When related to deeper, named nerve-trunks they are known as trunik neuromata. These are usually less sensitive than the “ subcutaneous nodule,” and they rarely give rise to motor symptoms unless when involving the nerve roots within the spinal canal. The origin of these swellings from nerves is recognised clinically by their i)osition in the line of a nerve, by the fact that they are movable in the transver.se axis of the nerve but not in its long axis, and by their being painful and sensitive. Treatment.—If they cause much suffering they should be removed, preferably by shelling them out from the investing nerve sheath or capsule. If the nerve is damaged the portion to which the tumour is attached .should be resected and the ends sutured. In the subcutaneous nodule the nerve is rarely re- cognisable, and is usualfy sacrificed. The malignant neuroma is really a sarcoma growing from the sheath of a nerve. It has the same characters and clinical features as the innocent neuroma, only it grows more rapidly, and by destroying the nerve fibres causes motor symptoms jerkings followed by paralysis. The sarcoma tends to spread