VARIX^VARICOSE VEINS. 275 develoj) at one or more ^^oints in the course of a vein, a condition to which Virchow applied the term angioma racemoswn venosum. The two types may occur in combination. Any vein in the body may become varicose, but the condition is extremely rare except in the veins of the lower extremity, in the veins of the spermatic cord (varicocele), and in the veins at the lower end of the rectum (ha?morrhoids). Varicocele and haemorrhoids will be describe'd* elsewhere. We are hei’e concerned with varix as it occurs in the veins of the low'er extremity. Etiology.—Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the essential cause of varix. The weight of evidence is in favour of the view that, where dilatation is the jiredominant element, it results from a congenital deficiency in the number, size, and strength of the valves of the affected veins, and in an inherent weakness in the vessel walls. The second type, the angioma racemosum venosum, is probably also due to a congenital alteration in the structure of the vessels, and it is allied to certain of the angiomata. The view that varix is congenital in origin, as was first suggested by Virchow, is sujjported by the fact that in a large proportion of cases the condition is hereditary ; not only may several members of the same family in succeeding generations suffer from varix, but it is often found that the .same vein, or segment of a vein, is involved in all of them. The frequent occurrence of the disease in youth is also a strong indication of its congenital origin. This congenital predispo.sition may exist without the patient manifesting any of the clinical phenomena associated with varix, and in the majority of ca.ses it is only when some exciting factor comes into operation that these appear. The most common exciting cause of varicosity is increased pressure within the veins, and this may be produced in a variety of ways. In certain diseases of the heart, lungs, and liver, for example, the venous pressure may be so raised as to cause a localised dilatation of such veins as are congenitally weak. The direct pressure of a tumour or of the gravid uterus, on the large venous trunks in the pelvis, may so obstruct the flow as to distend the veins of the lower extremity. It is a common experience that in women the signs of varix date from an antecedent }>regnancy. There is abundant evidence that the importance of the wearing of tight garters as a factor in the pro- duction of varicose veins has been much exaggerated, although it must be admitted that this practice is calculated to aggravate