COXA VARA. 727 and thigh are a little smaller ami softer than on the normal sule. One of the characteristic features is the attitude of the limb. The limb is adducted, and its normal range of abduction is consideral)ly restricted. There is also, as a rule, some degree of external rotation, so that the toes are turned outwartls and the j)atient is incapable of completely rotating the lind) inwards. Flexion is also restricted. The deformity is partly compensated for by upward tilting of the pelvis and a certain degree of lateral curvature of the spine. When the condition is bilateral, the attitude and gait are highly characteristic, as the adducted and everted legs tend to cross each other at the knee. The attitude and gait may be of the scissor.s-leg type (Fig. 280), and in extreme cases the patient may be unable to walk at all, or can only do so with the aid of crutches. Diagnosis.—Coxa vara may be confused with hip disease and with congenital dislocation of the hip. When pain in the hij) is an early symptom, and especially when it is also referred to the knee, the condition closely simulates hi[)-joint disease. The movements, especially those of rotation, are abolished in hip disease, while in coxa vara they are only restricted in the direction of abduction. In certain ca.ses of tuberculous disease of the upper end of the femur, the bone may be softened, and bend so that the limb assumes the attitude of coxa vara, and it is very difficult to diagnose this from the bending due to rickets. The diagnosis from congenital dislocation of the hip can usually be made by the history, the examination of the joint and of its movements, and by the use of the Rdntgen rays. Treatment.—In the early stages of the disease, to relieve the l)ain and to prevent deformity, the patient mu-st either give up standing and walking, or must wear a Thomas’ knee-splint to take the weight off the limb. Rest in bed, with extension of the limb, is often necessary. The general health should be improved, and the muscles in the region of the hip massaged and exercised. After the i^ains and stiffness have disappeared cycling may be beneficial. When deformity is a prominent feature and seriously interferes with locomotion, improvement can be effected only by operation, which consists in performing osteotomy either through or l)elow the great trochanter, the bone being divided obliquely downwards and inwards. The limb is then put up in the abducted position, the adductor muscles being divided if necessary to allow of this. The after treatment includes the use of massage and gymnastic exercises. Other Forms of Coxa Vara.—In comparison with other