FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 521 trochanter, the outer fragment l)eing driven as a wedge into the inner (Fig. 170). Clinical Features.—In non-inn>acted cases the limb is at once rendered useless, and the patient lies helpless. There is pain and tenderness in the region of the hip on making the slightest movement; and a specially tender s})ot may be localised, indicat- ing the seat of fracture. On placing the pelvis as square as possible, and comj»aring the measurements of the limbs from the ajiterior superior spine to the external malleolus, shortening of the injured limb to the extent of from one to three inches may be found. On applying Nelaton’s, Bryant’s, or Chiene’s tests, the tip of the great trochanter will be found elevated. It is also further back and less prominent than normal. The whole limb is usually everted to a greater or less degree, and is slightly abducted. On comparing the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata on the two sides, it is found to be relaxed on the injured side. The violence being as a rule indirect, there is at first little or no discoloration in the vicinity of the hi}), but this may appear a few days later. Crepitus is not a constant sign, and shoukl not be diligently sought for, as the necessary manipulations are liable to disengage the fragments and to increase the deformity. For the same reason rotatory movements are to be avoided. It is often stated that when the neck of the femur is broken the trochanter may be recognised to rotate through the arc of a smaller circle than under normal conditions. Theoretically this may be true, but the difference is so slight as to I’ender the sign of little clinical value. The symptoms are so variable, and often so slight, that it may be exceedingly difficult, if not impossible, to make a positive diagnosis immediately after the accident. In all cases of uncertainty the patient should be put to bed, and treated as for a fracture. In the course of a few days, when the .swelling has subsided and the pain abated, a further examination shoukl be made, and the subsequent treatment determined by the result. In examining an old person who has sustained an injury in the region of the hip, it should be borne in mind that the limb may be shortened and everted as a result of arthritis deformans, and that the symptoms of that disease may simulate those of fracture. In arthritis deformans, however, the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata is not relaxed as it is in fracture. In some cases, and particularly in those in which the