CONDITIONS OF ULCEUS. 81 causes, such as varicose veins,- the granulations sliare in the ojdenia, and a large quantity of thin, serous discharge escapes, but no healing takes place. The excessive use of moist dressings leads to a thirtl variety of weak ulcer—namely, one in which the granulations become large, soft, pale, and dabby, projecting beyond the level of the skin and overlapping the edges, which become pale and sodden and cease to grow. This constitutes what is popularly known as “ proud desh.” The same condition may arise when induration around prevents contraction of the sore. The Callous Condition.—This con- dition is usually met with in ulcers on the lower third of the leg, and is often associated with the presence of varicose veins. The want of healing is mainly due to impeded venous return and to the oedematous and indurated condi- tion of the parts around. This indura- tion of the surrounding tissues results from coagulation and partial organisa- tion of the indammatory edusion, and prevents the necessary contraction of the sore. The base of a callous ulcer lies at some distance below the level of the swollen, thickened, and white edges, and presents a glazed appearance, such granulations as are present being un- healthy and irregular. The character- istic discharge is a thin, serous duid, mixed with pus, and having a foul odour. L^nless when indamed, pain is not a prominent feature. The sufferers from this variety of ulcer are chiedy met with in hospital practice. The prolonged hyperaimia of the tissues in relation to a callous ulcer of the leg often leads to peculiar changes in the underlying bones. The periosteum is abnormally thick and vascular, the superdcial layers of the bone become injected and porous, and the bones, as a whole, are thickened. In the macerated bone “ the surface is covered with irregular, stalactite-like processes or foliaceous masses, which, to a certain extent, follow the line of attachment of the interosseous membrane and of the intermuscular 1 Pig. 20.—Tibi.a and Fibula, illn.strating the Change.s associated with Chronic Ulcer of the Leg. (Si'ecinien in Professor Annan- dale's collection.) VOL. 1—6