DISEASES OF JOINTS. 638 Elongation of the adhesions may be effected by manipulations, exercises, and the use of special forms of apparatus—such as extension, or the application of weights to the limb. Massage, douching, and electricity are also useful. This line of treatment, however, demands considerable patience and fortitude on the part of the patient, and unless he is encouraged by seeing evidence of the adhesions yielding, he is apt to abandon the treatment. It may be necessary to administer an anaesthetic in order to rupture strong fibrous adhesions, and these often give way with an audible crack. This procedure must be carried out with caution, in view of such risks as fracture of the bone— which is often rarefied—or separation of an epiphysis. There is also a risk of fat embolism, and of re-starting disease. In any case, the procedure is followed by considerable pain and effusion into the joint, which necessitate rest for some days before exercises and manipulations are resumed. The adhesions which result from injury of a joint are more amenable to treatment than those which result from disease. In selected cases of fibrous ankylosis, with or without con- tracture, it may be advisable to attempt to secure a movable joint by open arthrotomy, dividing or removing adhesions and other contracted tissues. This procedure, which has been named arthrolyds, has been practised chiefly in the elbow, and has yielded results which are distinctly encouraging. In order to prevent the reunion of articular surfaces, a layer of sub- cutaneous fat or a layer of fascia may be interposed. If the ankylosis is osseous and a movable joint is desired— for example, at the elbow—a considerable amount of bone, and it may "be also of periosteum and capsular ligament, may require to be re.fected to allow of the formation of a new joint. On the other hand, if osseous ankylosis has occurred with the limb in a good position it should be left alone. When bony ankylosis has occurred with the joint in an undesirable attitude—for example, flexion at the hip or knee, or extension at the elbow—it can only be remedied by osteotomy or by a wedge-shaped resection of the bone, with or without such additional division of the contracted soft parts as will permit of the limb being placed in the attitude desired. Fixation by means of pegs may hasten the occurrence of osseous union, and afford an additional security of the correct attitude being maintained. Bony ankylosis of the joints of a finger, whether the result of injury or disease, is difficult to remedy by any operative