673 HYSTERICAL JOINT AFFECTIONS. changes in joints which are the seat of paralytic contracture are considered with deformities. An intermittent neuropathic hydrop>s has been observed— especially in the knee — in cases of epilepsy, hysteria, and general paralysis of the insane. Hysterical or Mimetic Joint Affections. Under this heading Sir Benjamin Rrodie, in 1822, described an affection of the joints, characterised by the prominence of subjective symptoms, and the absence of pathological changes. Although met with chiefly in young women with an impression- able nervous system, and especially among those in good social circumstances, it occurs occasionally in men. The onset may be referred to injury or exposure to cold, or may be associated with some disturbance of the emotions, or with disease of the generative organs; or the conditions may be an involuntary imitation of the symptoms of organic joint disease presented by another patient. It is characteristic that the symptoms develop abruptly with- out sufficient cause, that they are exaggerated and wanting in harmony with one another, and that they do not correspond with the typical features of any of the known forms of organic disease. In some cases the only complaint is of severe neuralgic pains; more often these are associated with excessive tender- ness, and with impairment of the functions of the joint. On examination the joint presents a normal appearance, but the skin over it is remarkably sensitive. A light touch is more likely to excite pain than deep and firm pressure. Stiffness is a variable feature—in some cases amounting to absolute rigidity, so that no ordinary force will elicit movement. It is characteristic of this, as of other neuroses, that the symptoms come and go without apparent cause. When the patient’s attention is diverted, the i)ain and stiffness may disappear. There is never any actual swelling of the joint, although there may be an appearance of this from wasting of the muscles above and below If the joint is kept rigid for long periods, secondary contracture may occur—in the knee with flexion, in the hip with flexion and adduction—and attempts at movement may then cause cracking. The patient may remain in much the same condition for months or even years. The diagnosis is often a matter of considerable difficulty, and the condition is liable to be mistaken for such organic lesions as VOL. I—43