METHODS OF WOUND TREATMENT. 36 on a sterilised towel within reach of the surgeon or his assistant. If a special assistant is employed to look after the instruments, he should, after having thoroughly disinfected his hands, wear sterilised rubber gloves. Knives and instruments which are liable to be damaged by heat should be purified by being soaked in 1 in 20 carbolic for at least an hour. After operation the instruments should be boiled, dried, and kept in a dust-proof box or cupboard. Pads of Gauze sterilised by compressed circulating steam have almost entirely superseded natural sponges for operative purposes. To avoid the risk of leaving swabs in the peritoneal cavity, large square pads of gauze, to one corner of which a piece of strong tape about a foot long is securely stitched, should be employed (Mikulicz). They should be removed from the caskets in which they are sterilised by means of sterilised forceps, and handed direct to the surgeon. The assistant who attends to the swabs should wear sterilised gloves. Ligatures and Sidures.—To avoid the risk of implanting infective matter in a wound by means of the [materials used for ligatures and sutures, great care must be taken in their preparation. Catgut.—The following methods of preparing catgut have proved satisfactory;—(1) The gut is soaked in juniper oil for at least a month ; the juniper oil is then removed by ether and alcohol; and the gut preserved in 1 in 1000 solution of corrosive sublimate in alcohol (Kocher). (2) The gut is placed in a brass receiver and boiled for three-quarters of an hour in a solution consisting of 85 per cent, absolute alcohol, 10 per cent, water, and 5 jaer cent, carbolic acid, and is then stored in 90 per cent, alcohol. (3) Cladius recommends that the catgut, just as it is bought from the dealers, be loosely rolled on a spool, and then immersed in a solution of—iodine, 1 part; iodide of potassium, 1 part; distilled water, 100 parts. At the end of eight days it is ready for use. Moschcowitz has found that the tensile strength of catgut so prepared is increased if it is kept dry in a sterile vessel, instead of being left indefinitely in the iodine solution. To avoid contamination from the hands catgut should be removed from the bottle with aseptic forceps and passed direct to the surgeon. Any portion unused should be thrown away. Silk.—If rendered sterile, the smaller sizes of silk, Nos. 1 and 2, may be used for the ligature of blood-vessels. It is pre- pared by being soaked for twelve hours in ether, for other twelve in alcohol, and then boiled for ten minutes in 1 in