459 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. marked, and on account of tlie swelling from effusion this dis- location is apt to be overlooked. In addition to the ordinary symptoms, the shoulder is broadened, there is a marked hollow in front in which the coracoid projects, and the arm is held close to the side with the elbow directed forward. The head of the bone may be seen and felt in its abnormal position below the spine of the scapula. Reduction can usually be effected by making traction on the arm with internal rotation, and pressing the head forward into position, while counter-pressure is made upon the acromion. Prognosis.—The ultimate prognosis in dislocations of the shoulder should always be guarded. The circumflex nerve may be stretched or torn, and this may lead to atrophy of the deltoid, or other branches of the brachial plexus may be injured and the muscles they supply permanently weakened. In a certain number of cases traumatic neuritis has resulted in serious disability of the limb. The movements of the shoulder-joint may be restricted by cicatricial contraction of the torn portion of the capsule and of the damaged muscles. Recurrent dis- location may follow if the capsule becomes unduly lax or if the rent in it fails to close. Dislocation of the Shoulder complicated with Fracture of the Humerus.—This double injury is fortunately very rare. The dislocation, which is almost invariably of the .sub-coracoid vai’iety, is produced by the usual mechanism of forced abduction, and the fracture of the surgical neck takes place by the violence continuing to act after the head has left the glenoid fossa. The head may be felt in its abnormal position, but does not move with the shaft when the humerus is rotated; crepitus, ab- normal mobility at the seat of fracture, and shortening of the limb can usually be recognised. A general anmsthetic is almost always necessary to permit of an exact diagnosis being made, as well as to aid in reduction. The neck of the humerus has frecpfently been fractured during attempts to reduce an old- standing dislocation. The first indication in treatment is to reduce the dislocation. In certain cases, when the head lies close to the glenoid cavity and the capsule is widely lacerated, this may be done by manipulating the upper fragment from the axilla. On no account should the lower fragment be employed as a lever in attempting reduction. When reduction by external manipu- lation fails, the upper fragment should be exposed by an incision over its outer aspect, and gripped by forceps or held by M‘Burney’s hook, which is specially constructed for the purj)ose