516 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. Injuries in the Region of the Hip. The.se include the various fractures of the upper end of the femur ; dislocations and sprains of the hip-joint; and contusions of the hip. Surgical Anatomy.—The strength of the hip-joint depends primarily on its osseous elements—the rounded head of the femur filling the deep socket of the acetabulum, to the bottom of which it is attached through the medium of the ligamentum teres. The edge of the acetabulum is specially strong above and behind, while there is a gap in its lower margin, bridged over by the cotyloid ligament. In relation to fractures of the upper end of the femur, it is to be borne in mind that as the antero-posterior diameter of the neck is less than that of the shaft, and as a considerable portion of the great trochanter lies behind the junction of the neck with the shaft, the greater part of any strain put upon the upper end of the femur is borne by the neck of the bone and not by the trochanter. The head and neck of the femur are nourished chiefly by the thick, vascular periosteum, and through certain strong fibrous bands reflected from the attachment of the cajr- sule—the cervical liga- ments of Stanley. The integrity of these liga- ments plays an import- ant part in determining union in fractures of the Fig. 166.~Nelaton’s Line. neck of the femur, both by keeping the frag- ments in position, and by maintaining the blood-supply to the short frag- ment. Whether it be true or not that an alteration in the angle of the femoral neck takes place with advancing years, it is generally recognised that this change is of no importance in relation to fractures in this region. The capsular ligament of the hip is of exceptional strength. It is attached above to the entire circumference of the acetabulum, and below to the neck of the femur in such a way that while the whole of the anterior and inferior aspects of the neck lie within its attachment, only the inner half of the posterior and superior aspects is intra-capsular. The capsule is augmented by several accessory bands, the most imiiortant of which is the ilio-femoral or A-shaped ligament of Bigelow, which piasses from the anterior inferior iliac spine to the anterior inter-trochanteric line, its fasciculi being specially thick towards the upjier and lower ends of this ridge. The inner limb of this ligament limits extension of the thigh, while the outer limits eversion and adduction. The weakest part of the capsular ligament lies opposite the lower and back part of the joint. The hip-joint is surrounded by muscles which contribute to its strength, the most important from the surgical point of view being the obturator internus, which jilays an important ]iart in certain dislocations, and the ilio-psoas, which influences the deformity in various lesions in this region.