FRACTURES. 417 fitted paper pattern. Millboard, leather, or gutta-percha softened in hot water, and moulded to the part, may also he employed. In military practice, and in other conditions where treatment by massage and movement is impracticable, and where movable splints are inconvenient, splints of plaster of Paris, starch, or wafer-ylass are sometimes used, especially in the treatment of fractures of the leg. When employed in the form of an immovable case they are open to certain objections — for e.xample, if applied immediately after the accident they are apt to become too tight if swelling occurs ; and if applied while swelling is still present, they become slack when this subsides, so that displacement is liable to occur. When it is desired to enclose the limb in a plaster case, coarse muslin bandages, three yards long, and charged with the finest quality of thoroughly dried plaster of Paris, are employed. The “acetic plaster bandages” sold in the shops set most quickly and firmly. A boracic lint bandage is evenly applied next the skin, and the bony ju'ominences are specially padded. The plaster bandage is then placed in cold water till it is thoroughly saturated, and after the excess of water is squeezed out of it, is applied in the usual way from below upward. From four to six plies of the bandage are required. In the course of half-an-hour the plaster should be thoroughly set. In order to remove a plaster case the limb should be immersed for a short time in tepid water. Croft's splint, or some modification of it, is perhaps the best form of movable plaster splint. It is made by accurately shajiing hvo pieces of thoroughly shrunk house-flannel to each side of the limb, and immersing one of each pair in a solution of plaster of Paris of the consistence of thin cream till the flannel is thoroughly impregnated. The dry pieces are placed next the .skin, with the saturated pieces over them, and a coarse gauze bandage is then applied to fix them in position. After the plaster has set, if it is desired to remove the splint for the puiqjose of employing massage, the gauze bandage is cut along the front of the limb, and the splint opened out on the hinge formed by the posterior turns of the bandage. A most convenient and efficient splint is made by moulding two pieces of poroplastic felt to the sides of the limb, and fixing it in position with an elastic webbing bandage. Padding is an essential adjunct to all forms of splints. The whole part enclosed in the splint must be covered with a thick layer of soft and elastic material, such as cotton wool or lint. All hollows should be filled up, and all bony projections specially protected by rings of wadding so arranged as to take the pressure off the prominent point and distribute it on the surrounding parts. Opposing skin surfaces must always be separated by a layer of cotton wool or boracic lint. A bandage should never be applied to the limb underneath the splints and pads, as congestion or even gangrene may be induced thereby. Operative Treatment of Simple Fractures.—In certain cases it is found impossible to bring the fragments into accurate apposition or to retain them there. This may be due to the obliquity of the fracture, as, for example, in the bones of the leg; to the interlocking of fragments, as occurs frequently in epiphysial separations j to the traction of powerful muscles on one of the fragments, as in fracture of the patella or olecranon ; VOL. I—27