TROPHIC DISEASES OF BONE. 611 to angular deformity and paraplegia. In the pelvis there is usually great enlargement of the bones, and when suppuration occurs it is apt to infect the hip-joint and to terminate fatally. Examination with the X-rays shows the characteristic-excava- tions of the bone caused by the cysts. The disease is liable to be mistaken for central tumour, gumma, tuberculosis, or abscess of bone. The treatment consists in thorough eradication of the parasite by operation. The bone is laid open and scraped or resected according to the extent of the disease. In advanced cases complicated with spontaneous fracture or with suppuration, amputation afibrds the best chance of recovery. The lesions in the bones resulting from actinomycosis and from mycetoma have been described with these diseases (p. 133). TROPHIC DISEASES OF BONE. These include rickets, scurvy-rickets, osteomalacia, ostitis deformans, fragilitas ossium, and certain lesions met wuth in diseases of the nervous system. Rickets. Rickets or rachitis is a constitutional disease associated with disturbance of the nutrition, and attended with characteristic changes in the skeleton. The disease is most common and most severe among the children of the poorer classes in large cities, who are improperly fed and are brought up in unhealthy sur- roundings. There is evidence that the most important factor in the cau.sation of rickets is the administration of food w'hich is deficient in animal fat, proteids, and salts of lime, or which contains these in such a form that they are not readily assimi- lated. The occurrence of the disease is favoured, and its features are exaggerated, by imperfect oxygenation of the blood as the result of a deficiency of fresh air and sunlight, and by other conditions which tend to lower the general health. Pathological Anatomy.—The bone lesions are of considerable surgical importance. The most striking feature is the softness (malacia) of the bones due to the excessive absorption of osseous tissue and the formation of an imperfectly calcified tissue at the various sites of ossification. The affected portions of the skeleton lose their rigidity, so that the bones bend under the weight of the body, from the traction of muscles, and under the influence of other mechanical forces.