126 BACTERIAL & OTHER WOUND INFECTIONS. The spasms rapidly spread to all the muscles of deglutition and respiration, so that the patient not only has the greatest difficulty in swallowing, but has a constant sense of impending suffocation. To add to his distress, a copious secretion of viscid saliva fills his mouth. Any voluntary effort, as well as all forms of external stimuli, only serves to aggravate the spasms which are always induced by the attempt to swallow fluid, or even by the sound of running water. The temperature is raised ; the pulse is small, rapid, and intermittent, and the urine may contain sugar and albumen. The mind may remain clear to the end, or the patient may have delusions, supposing himself to be surrounded by terlifying forms. There is always extreme mental agitation and despair, and the sufferer is in constant fear of his impending fate. Happily the inevitable issue is not long delayed, death usually occurring from exhaustion in from two to four days from the onset. The symptoms of the disease are so characteristic that there is no difficulty in diagnosis. The only condition with which it is liable to be confused is the variety of cephalic tetanus in which the muscles of deglutition are sjiecially involved—the so-called tetanus hydrophobicus. Prophylaxis.—The bite of an animal suspected of being rabid should be cauterised at once by means of the actual or Paquelin cautery, or by a strong chemical cscharotic such as pure carbolic acid, after which antiseptic dressings are applied. It is, however, to Pasteur’s 2^'>'eventive inoculation that we must look for our best hope of averting the onset of symptoms. “ It may now be taken as established that a grave responsibility rests on those concerned if a person bitten by a mad animal is not subjected to the Pasteur treat- ment ” (Muir and Ritchie). This method is based on the fact that the long incubation period of the disease admits of the p>atient being inoculated with a modified virus producing a mild attack, which protects him from the natural disease— on the same principle as vaccination for small-pox. Treatment.—When the symptoms have once developed they can only be palliated. The patient must be kejjt absolutely quiet and free from all sources of irritation. The spiasms may be diminished by means of chloral and bromides, or by chloroform inhalation. There is great diffi- culty in feeding the jjatient, and all nourishment and stimulants may require to be administered by the rectum. Anthrax. Anthrax is a comparatively rare bacterial disease com-, municable to man from certain of the lower animals, such as sheep, oxen, horses, deer, and other herbivora. In animals it is characterised by symptoms of acute general septic poisoning, and, from the fact that it produces a marked enlargement of the spleen, is known in veterinary surgery as “ splenic fever.” The bacillus anthracis (Fig. 29), to the action of which the disease has been proved to be due, is the largest of the known pathogenic bacteria. It occurs in groups or in chains made up of numerous bacilli, each measuring from 6 to 8 /x in length.