TUBERCULOSIS. 148 the skin by concentrating the rays of the sun on tlie affected part by means of lenses. When sun-rays are not available, the rays from a powerful arc light are substituted. The beneficial influence would appear to depend, in part, on the reactive changes excited in the tissues as evidenced by their increased vascularity and subsequent desquamation of the skin. The use of sunlight and electric light has been to a large extent superseded by the Rontgen rays and by those given off by radium. In many instances a more rapid cure of the disease may be attained by operative interference. Complete extirpation of the infected tissues is practicable, for instance, in lymphatic glands, kidney, or testis; when this is impracticable and the removal of the tuberculous tissue by scissors and sharp spoon is necessarily incomplete, the raw surface which is left is rubbed with iodoform or cauterised by the hot iron or pure carbolic acid. Tuberculous Abscess. The caseation of tuberculous granulation tissue and its liquefaction into jms is a slow and insidious process, and is unattended with the classical signs of inflammation—hence the terms “ cold ” and “ chronic ” applied to the tuberculous abscess. In a typical cold abscess, such as that which results from tuberculous disease of the vertebrae, the clinical appearances are those of a soft, fluid swelling without heat, redness, pain, or fever. When inflammatory symptoms are present they are usually due to a mixed infection with ordinary pyogenic bacteria having taken place. A tubercnlous abscess results from the disintegration and liquefaction of tuberculous granulation tissue which has under- gone caseation. Fluid and cells from the adjacent blood-vessels exude into the cavity, and lead to variations in the character of its contents. In some cases the contents consist of a clear amber-coloured fluid, in which are suspended flakes or fragments of broken-down caseated tissue; in others, of a thick, white material like cream - cheese. From the addition of a large number of emigrated leucocytes, the contents may closely resemble the pus of an ordinary abscess. The wall of the abscess is lined with tuberculous granulation tissue, the inner layers of which are undergoing caseation and disintegration and present a shreddy appearance; the outer layers consist of tirberculous tissue which has not yet undergone caseation. The abscess tends to increase in size by progressive