ULCERATION AND ULCERS. 78 suppuration occurs under it, the pus escaping through a small hole in the centre. So long as the patient continues to go about, the process slowly and gradually spreads deeper and deeper, till eventually the bone or joint is reached, and becomes implicated in the destructive process—hence the term “ perforat- ing ulcer.” The flexor tendons are sometimes destroyed, the toe being dorsiflexed by the unopposed extensors. The depth of the track being so disproportionate to its superficial area, the condition closely simulates a tuberculous sinus, for which it is liable to be mistaken. The raw surface is absolutely insensitive, so that the probe can be freely employed without the patient even being aware of it or suffering the least discomfort—a significant fact in diagnosis. The cavity is filled with effete and decomposing epidermis which has a most offensive odour. The chronic and intractable character of these ulcers is due to inter- ference with the trophic nerve-supply to the parts, and to the fact that the epithelium of the skin grows in and lines the track leading down to the deepest part of the ulcer and so prevents closure. WTiile they are commonest on the sole of the foot and other parts subjected to pressure, perforating ulcers are met with on the sides and dorsum of the foot and toes, on the hands, and on other parts where no pressure has been exerted. It is to be borne in mind that ulcers occur in the foot under callosities independently of any nerve lesion. Although very slow to heal, they do not show the same tendency to burrow and persist as the perforating ulcer does. The tuberculous ulcer, so often seen in the neck, in the vicinity of joints, or over the ribs and sternum, usually results from the bursting through the skin of a tuberculous abscess. The base is soft, pale, and covered with feeble granulations and grey shreddy sloughs. The edges are of a dull blue or purple colour, and gradually thin out towards their free margins, and in addition are characteristically undermined, so that a probe can be passed for some distance between the floor of the ulcer and the thinned- out edges. Thin, devitalised tags of skin often stretch from side to side of the ulcer. The outline is irregular ; small perforations often occur through the skin, and a thin, watery discharge, containing grey shreds of tuberculous debris, escapees. The syphilitic ulcer is usually formed by the breaking down of a cutaneous or subcutaneous gumma in the tertiary stage of syphilis. When the gummatous tissue is first expiosed by the destruction of the skin or mucous membrane covering it, it apipears as a tough greyish slough, comp)ared to “wash leather,” which slowly sepiarates and leaves a more or less circular, deep).