DISEASES OF JOINTS. 642 washed out with salt solution or peroxide of hydrogen. It is a common experience that many forms of acute suppuration in joints—for example, the acute arthritis of infants, and the suppurations in pyrnmia—yield at once to incision and drainage if carried out sufficiently early and before any destructive changes have taken place. In other cases simple drainage may not prove satisfactory, and indications of progressive mischief call for further inter- ference. Continuous irrigation with several openings for drainage may be tried, or the joint may be laid freely open so that every pocket and recess is exposed. In certain joints this is only attainable by the resection of one or other of the bones. Suppuration in the peri-articular soft parts or in one of the adjacent bones must be looked for and promptly dealt with by operation. Amputation is only to be had recourse to if life is threatened by general infection. When convalescence is established, attention is directed to the restoration of the functions of the limb, to the prevention of stiffness and deformity by movements and massage, and the use of hot-air and other baths. At a later stage, and especially in neglected cases, operative and other measures may be required for deformity or stiffness. Other Forms of Pyogenic Infection.—In typhoid fever, joint lesions may result from infection with the typhoid bacillus or with ordinary pyogenic organisms. They have been observed to run their course with or without suppuration. They are sometimes remarkably latent, especially in the hip-joint, and may result in dislocation on slight movement, or on lifting the patient. They are usually amenable to treatment, but sometimes ankylosis occurs. .Joint lesions are comparatively common in scarlet fever; they were formerly described as scarlatinal rheumatism. The most frequent clinical type is that of a serous synovitis, occurring within a week or ten days from the onset of the fever. It is most common in females over fifteen years, and its favourite seat is in the hand and wrist, the sheaths of the extensor tendons as well as the synovial membrane of the joints being involved. It does not tend to migrate to other joints, and rarely lasts longer than a few days. It is probably due to the specific virus of scarlatina. An arthritis is sometimes met with which may be acute and sup])urative, may affect several joints, and may exhibit a grave