555 FRACTURES OF THE PATELLA. stretched. It is not uncommon for the patella to be refractured by a fall within a month or two of a previous fracture. Treatment.—The best method of treating a fracture of the patella is still sub judice. It is ])robably true that the best functional results are most speedily obtained by ojierative measures. The laceration of the lateral aponeurosis, the tilting of the fragments, and the interposition of the torn periosteum between the fragments, can in no other way be rectified with certainty. The oi)eration, however, should only be undertaken by those who are thoroughly familiar with wound technique, and who have every means at their disposal for carrying it out. Non-operative Treatment.—In the maj ority of cases occurring in patients who do not follow a laborious occiq)ation or otherwise lead an active life, a satisfactory result can be obtained without having recourse to operation. We have recently employed the following method, and have reason to be satisfied with it :— The patient is ke[)t in bed for a few days, the injured region being supported on a pillow and massaged daily. About the fourth day a strip of adhesive i»laster, three inches wide, is ai)plied so as to encircle the thigh in the lower third (Wharton Hood). The patient is then allowed to use the limb with caution. As osseous union of the fragments is not an essential to success in treatment, and as fibrous union does not necessarily entail any material in- terference with the utility of the limb, no attempt need be made to aj (proximate the fragments, but every effort must be made to maintain the function of the quadriceiis muscle and the mobility of the joint. In the opinion of some surgeons an attempt should be made to bring the fragments into contact, and to secure osseous union. ' The limb is placed upon an inclined plane to relax the (juadriceps muscle, and means are taken to arrest effu.sion and to diminish the swelling of the joint by .systematic massage and a .supporting bandage. When, in the cour.se of a few days. Fig. 198.—Fracture 'if Patella, showing wide separation of frag- ments, which are united by a fibrous band. (Aiiatnuiical Mu.scum of the University of Kdiii- burgh.)