FAT EMBOLISM. 247 fluid food, supplemented, if necessary, by nutrient enemata and saline injections. In the early stage a brisk mercurial purge is often of value. Alcoliol should be withheld, unless failing of the pulse strongly indicates its use, and then it should be given in the food. A delirious patient must be constantly w'atched by a trained attendant or other competent person, lest he get out of bed and do harm to himself or others. Mechanical restraint is often necessary, but must be avoided if possible, as it is apt to increase the excitement and exhaust the patient. On account of the extreme restlessness, there is often great difficulty in carrying out the proper treatment of the primary surgical condition, and considerable modifications in splints and other appliances are often rendered necessary. A form of delirium, sometimes spoken of as Traumatic Delirium, may follow^ on severe injuries or operations in persons of neurotic temperament, or in those w'hose nervous system is exhausted by overwork. It is met with apart from alcoholic intemperance. This form of delirium seems to be specially prone to ensue on operations on the face, the thyroid gland, or the genito-urinary organs. The .symptoms appear in from tw'O to five days after the operation, and take the form of restlessness, sleeplessness, low incoherent muttering, and picking at the bed- clothes. It is not necessarily attended by fever or by muscular tremors. The patient may show hysterical .symi)toms. This condition is probably to be regarded as a form of insanity, and the patient may become maniacal or melancholic. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as that of delirium tremens. Fat Embolism.—After various injuries and operations, but especially such as implicate the marrow of long bones—for example, comminuted fractures, osteotomies, resections of joints, or the forcible correction of deformities—fluid fat may enter the circulation in variable quantity. In the vast majority of cases no ill effects follow, but when the quantity is large or w'hen the absorption is long continued certain symptoms ensue, either immediately, or more frequently not for two or three days. These are mostly referable to the lungs and brain. In the lungs the fat collects in the minute blood-vessels and produces venous congestion and cedema, and sometimes pneumonia. Dyspnoea, wdth cyanosis, a persistent cough and frothy or blood-stained sputum, a feeble pulse and low tempera- ture, are the chief symptoms. When the fat lodges in the capillaries of the brain the pulse