FRACTURES OF THE BONES OF THE LEG. 563 lower fragment, l)ut we prefer to carry it to the upper third of the leg. When the skin is damaged, as it so frequently is on the inner aspect of the tibia, antiseptic and protective dressings must be applied to prevent sej)tic infection, and to promote healing. Massage is carried out daily so soon as the condition of the skin will admit of it, and, to i)revent stiffness, the ankle is moved from the first. In the course of three weeks, lateral poroplastic splints retained by an elastic bandage may be substituted, and the patient allowed iq) on crutches. . In simj)le fractures with- out displacement union is usually com- plete in from six to eight weeks, fmt when the fracture is oblitpie, comminuted, or compound, union is often delayed, and the functions of the limb may not be regained for three or even four months after the accident. Operative Treatment.—When over- riding cannot otherwise be corrected it is advisable to secure the fracture mechanically by operation. A curved incision with its convexity backward is made over the inner side of the tibia, exposing the fragments, which are then screwed, pegged, or wired according to circumstances. It is seldom necessary to deal specially with the fibula. A box splint is applied till the wound has healed, after which a Croft’s splint is substituted and massage commenced. We do not share in the dissatisfaction expressed by some surgeons, notably Arbuthnot Lane, as to the results obtained by non-operative means in these fractures, and do not recom- mend a systematic resort to operative treatment. Un-united fracture of the bones of the leg is sometimes met with. It is treated on the same lines as in other situations, but may prove extremely intractable, especially in the case of children, in whom indeed it is sometimes incurable. Mal-union (Fig. 206), on account of the disability it entails, may call for oj)erative treatment in the form of osteotomy of one or both bones. Fia. 206.—A Badly-uniteil Fracture of both Bones of Leg, occurring in a lad who had liad no treat- ment.