391 TENOSYNOVITIS. Treat'imnt.—When the extensor tendons of the thumb or fingers are affected, the pain is relieved by lead and opium fomentations, or by glycerin and belladonna, and the forearm and hand should be immobilised on a palmar splint. The later treatment consists in massage and movement of the thumb and fingers. Any constitutional or gastro-intestinal derange- ment should be corrected by ajjpropriate diet and medicinal treatment. The condition is common in the tendons about the wrist, particularly in the extensors of the thumb, and it is most frequently met with in those who follow occupations which involve prolonged use, or excessive straining of these tendons, for example, in washerwomen or in riveters. It also occurs as a result of excessive piano-playing, fencing, or rowing. At the ankle it may affect the peronei, the extensor longus digitorum, or the tibialis anticus. It is most often met with in relation to the tendo Achillis—Achillo^dynia—and results from the pressure of ill-fitting boots or from the excessive use and strain of the tendon in cycling, walking, or dancing. There is pain and difficulty in raising the heel from the ground, and creaking can be felt on palpation. It readily subsides under rest and the application of a blister, but it is apt to relapse on a repetition of the exciting cause. In the upper arm the sheath of the long tendon of the biceps may be affected. Gouty Tenosynovitis.—A deposit of urate of soda beneath the endothelial covering of tendons or of that lining their sheaths is commonly met with in gouty subjects. The accumulation of urates may result in the formation of visible nodular swellings, varying in size from a pea to a cherry, which are attached to the tendon and move with it. They may be merely unsightly, or they may interfere with the use of the tendons. Recurrent attacks of inflammation sometimes occur. We have removed gouty masses on account of one or other of these indications, with satisfactory results. Suppurative Teno - synovitis. — This form usually follows upon infected wounds of the fingers—especially of the thumb or little finger—and is a frequent sequel to whitlow. It may also follow the amputation of a finger. Once the infection has gained access to the sheath, it tends to spread, and may reach the palm or even the forearm, being then associated with cellulitis. There is considerable fever, pain, and swelling. In moderately acute cases the tendon and its sheath become covered with granulations, which subsequently lead to the