FLAT-FOOT. 751 In order to continue standing without effort for long periods, the patient adopts an attitude which makes little demand on the muscles, and throws nearly all the strain of the body weight on the ligaments and bones of the feet. This, which has been called by Annandale “ the attitude of rest,” consists in standing with the limbs apart, the knees slightly Hexed, the legs slightly rotated outwards at the knee, and the feet proirated with the toes pointing outwards. The most im})ortant local factors predisposing to flat-foot are weakness of those muscles of the leg and foot which normally lend su[)port to the ankle, and to the tarsal arches, specially the tibialis posticus; weakness of the ligaments of the foot; and softness of the tarsal bones. When these conditions are present and the patient adopts a faulty method of standing and walking, the undue strain to which the tendons and ligaments are exposed result in their being stretched; the bones are altered in shape and position, and flat-foot results. The head of the astragalus is displaced inwards and is })ushed in between the os calcis and scaphoid, tending to separate them from one another, stretching the inferior cal- caneo-scaphoid ligament and causing the anterior part '' the foot to be abducted. T plantar ligaments —specially 298.—Adolescent Flat-foot, the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid —at fir.st become stretched and lengthened, and in coui’.se of time become thicker and stronger. Clinical Features.—The ])atient usually complains of being easily tired, and of })ain in the feet after walking or standing. There is usually more pain when the deformity is commencing than when it is fully develo[)ed. Before there is any loss of the arch, the pain is liable to be wrongly ascribed to rheumatism or neuralgia, or to disease of the bones or joints. The most common seat of pain is at the inner border of the foot behind the tubercle of the scaphoid, and this is due to stretching of the inferior calcaneo-sca[)hoid ligament. Pain is also complained of in the middle of the dorsum across the instep, from stretching of the interosseous ligaments. Later, there is pain over the greater process of the os calcis in front of the external malleolus, from these bones coming into contact. There may be nocturnal cramp in the legs and feet. In exceptional cases pain is entirely absent.