382 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. suddenly gives way on flexion at the knee. Treatment is con- ducted on the same lines as in transverse fracture of the patella ; in the majority of cases the continuity of the quadriceps should be re-established by suture within five or six days of the accident. The tendo Achillis is comparatively easily ruptured, and the symptoms are sometimes so slight that the nature of the injury may be overlooked. The limb should be put up -wnth the knee flexed and the toes pointed. This may be effected by attaching one end of an elastic band to the heel of a slipper, and securing the other end to the lower third of the thigh. If this is not successful, the ends should be approximated by sutures. The plantaris is not infrequently ruptured from trivial causes, such as a sudden movement in boxing or playing lawn tennis. A sharp stinging pain is felt in the calf, like the stroke of a whip. There is marked tenderness at the seat of rupture, and the patient is unable to contract the tendo Achillis without pain. The injury is of little importance, and if the patient keeps the heel to the ground in walking, it is recovered from in a couple of weeks or so. Partial rupture of muscle is produced in the same way, and affects the same muscles, as complete rupture. There is pain and tenderness increased by movement, and there may be an appreciable gap in the continuity of the muscle, which, however, does not show the same tendency to increase when the muscle contracts as it does when the rupture is coihplete. The treatment consists in rest and massage, followed by movements and exercises calculated to restore the functions of the muscle. Hernia of Muscle.^—^This is a rare condition, in which, owing to the fascia covering a muscle becoming stretched or torn, the muscular substance is protruded through the rent. It has been observed chiefly in the adductor longus. An oval swelling forms in the upper part of the thigh, is soft and prominent when the muscle is relaxed, less prominent when it is .passively extended, and small and hard when the muscle is thrown into contraction. It is liable to be mistaken, according to its situation, for a tumour, a cyst, a pouched vein, or a femoral or obturator hernia. If there are no symptoms, no treatment is called for. If it is causing inconvenience, the muscle is ex- posed by a suitable incision, the herniated portion excised, and the rent in the sheath closed by sutures. Dislocation of Tendons. — Tendons which run in grooves may be displaced as a result of rupture of the confining sheath.