182 SYPHILIS. the testis, which causes the organ to become enlarged, uneven, and indurated. This has even been observed in infants a few months old. Occasionally a syphilitic child suffers from a succession of these gummatous lesions which causes persistent ill-health, and, it may be, waxy disease of the internal organs; on the other hand, it may recover and present no further manifestations of the inherited taint. Eye Symptoms.—At or near puberty there is frequently observed an affection of the eyes, known as chronic interstitial keratitis, the relationship of which to inherited syphilis was first established by Hutchinson. It occurs between the ages of five and eighteen years, and usually affects one eye before the other. It commences as a diffuse haziness or steaminess near the centre of the cornea, and as it spreads, the entire cornea assumes the appearance of ground glass. The chief complaint is of dimness of sight which may almost amount to blindness, but there is little pain or photo- phobia ; a certain amount of conjunctival and ciliary conges- tion is usually present, and there may be iritis in addition. The cornea, or parts of it, may be- come of a deep pink or salmon colour from the formation in it of new blood - vessels. The affection may last for from eighteen months to two years. Complete recovery usually takes place, but slight opacities, especially in the site of former salmon patches, may persist, and the disease occasionally relapses. Choroiditis and retinitis may also occur, as in acquired syphilis. Among the rarer and more serious lesions of the inherited disease may be mentioned gummatous disease in the larynx and trachea, attended with ulceration and resulting in stenosis ; and lesions of the nervous system which may result in convul- sions, paralysis, or dementia. In a limited number of cases, about the period of puberty there may develop deafness, which is usually bilateral and may become absolute. Changes in the Permanent Teeth.—These affect specially the upper central incisors, which are dwarfed and stand somewhat apart in the gum with their free edges converging towards one another. They are tapering or peg-shaped, and present at their cutting margin a deep semilunar notch (Fig. 41). These Fig. 41.—Showing appearance of Per- manent Teeth in case of Inherited Syphilis—“Hutchinson Teeth.”