INNOCENT CONNECTIVE-TISSUE TUMOURS. 195 u.sually mistaken for a fibrous tumour until the tooth is recog- nised in its interior after removal. Composite Odontoviata.—This is a convenient term to apply to certain hard dental tumours which are met with in the jaws, and consist of enamel, dentine, and cement. They are to be regarded as being derived from an abnormal grcnvth of all the elements of a tooth germ, or of two or more tooth germs, indiscriminately fu.sed with one another. They may appear in childhood, and ■ form smooth, unyielding tumours, often of considerable size, replacing the corresponding permanent teeth. Many examples of this variety of odontoma, growing in the nasal cavity or in the antrum, have been erroneously regarded as osteomata even after removal. They may cause a purulent discharge, and in some ca.ses have been si)ontaneously extruded after sloughing of the overlying soft parts. On section, the tumour is usually laminated, and is seen to consist mainly of dentine with a partial covering of enamel and cement. Diagnosis.—Odontomata are often only diagnosed after removal. When attended with suj)puration the condition has been mistaken for disease of the bone. Fibrous odontomata have been mistaken for sarcomata, and portions of the jaw removed unnecessarily. Any circumscribed tumour of the jaw, particularly when met with in a young adult, should suggest an odontoma. Treatment.—The solid varieties of odontoma can usually l)e .shelled out after dividing the overlying soft parts. In the follicular variety, it is usually sufficient to excise a portion of the wall, scrape out the interior, and remove the tooth if it is present. The cavity is then packed with gauze, and allowed to heal from the bottom. Fibroma.—A fibroma is a tumour composed of fibrous connective tissue. A distinction may be made between the soft fibroma, which is comparatively rich in cells and blood-vessels, and in which the fibres are arranged loosely; and the hard fibroma, which is almost entirely composed of closely packed bundles of fibres often arranged in a concentric fashion around the blood-vessels. The cut surface of the soft fibroma presents a pinkish-white, fleshy appearance resembling the slowly growing forms of sarcoma; that of a hard fibroma presents a dry, glistening appearance, aptly compared to watered silk. The soft variety grows much more rapidly than the hard. In certain fibromata—in those, for example, which grow from the periosteum of the base of the skull and project into the naso-jffiarynx—the