133 ACTINOMYCOSIS. disease are somewhat different from those of the acute form. Here, too, infection takes place through a broken cutaneous surface, and leads to a superficial lymphangitis with nodular thickening of the lymphatics {farcy buds). The neighbouring glands soon become SM'ollen and indurated. The primary lesion meanwhile inflames, sup2)urates, and, after breaking down, leaves a large, irregular ulcer with thickened edges and a foul, jmrulent or bloody discharge. The glands break down in the same way and lead to wide destruction of skin, and the resulting sinuses and ulcers are exceedingly intractable (Fig. 31). Secondary deposits in the subcutaneous tissue, the muscles, and other parts are not uncommon, and the nasal mucous membrane may become involved. The disease often runs a very chronic course, ex- tending to four or five months, or even longer. Recovery takes jjlace in about 50 per cent, of cases, but the convalescence is very prolonged, and at any time the disease may assume the i| characters of the acute variety and speedily prove fatal. ;j The differential diagnosis is often very difficult. The j ulcerations of farcy have to be distinguished from those of i] tubercle, syjjhilis, and other forms of infective granulomata. |i In the chronic nodules it is often impossible to demonstrate the bacillus. Treatment.—Limited areas of disease should be completely excised, and disinfected with j)ure carbolic acid. When abscesses have formed they should be scraped and disinfected. The general condition of the patient must be improved by } tonics, good food, and favourable hygienic surroundings. In some cases potassium iodide acts beneficially. Actinomycosis. Actinomycosis is a chronic disease due to the action of an organism somewhat higher in the vegetable scale than ordinary bacteria—the streptothrix actinomyces or ray fungus. Etiology and Morbid Anatomy.—The actinomyces, which has never been met with outside the body, gives rise in oxen, horses, and other animals to tumour-like masses composed of granulation tissue ; and in man to chronic su^jpurative jirocesses which may result in a condition resembling chronic pyaemia. The actinomyces is more complex in structure than other patho- genic organisms, and occurs in the tissues in the form of small, round, semi-translucent bodies, about the size of a pin-head or less, and consisting of colonies of the fungus. On account of I their yellow tint they are spoken of as “ sulphur grains.” Each