390 MUSCLES, TENDONS, & TENDON SHEATHS. is most frequently met with in the muscles of the abdominal wall. A rarer variety is the chondro-sarcoma, which may undergo ossification to such an extent as to l)e visible in skiagrams. In primary sarcoma the treatment consists in removing the muscle.. In the limbs, the function of the muscle that is re- moved may be retained by transplanting an adjacent muscle in its place. We have carried this out in an ossifying sarcoma of the muscles of the calf by stitching the divided peroneus longus into the tendo Achillis. Hydatid cysts of muscle are very rare. DISEASES OF TENDON SHEATHS. Tendon sheaths have the same structure and function as the synovial membranes of joints, and are liable to the same diseases. Teno-synovitis.—The toxic or infective agent which causes inflammation of tendon sheaths is either conveyed to them through the blood-stream, as in the gouty, gonorrhoeal, and tuberculous varieties, or is introduced directly through a wound, as in the common septic form of teno-synovitis. Simple Teno-synovitis. — In the simple or traumatic form of teno-synovitis, although the most prominent etiological factor is a strain or over-use of the affected tendon, there would appear to be some other, probably a toxic, factor in its production, other- wise the affection would be much more common than it is : only a very small proportion of those who strain or over-use their tendons become the subjects of teno-synovitis. The opposed surfaces of the tendon and its sheath are covered with an exudation of fibrinous lymph, so that there is friction when these move on one another. The clinical features are pain on movement, tenderness on pressure over the affected tendon, and a sensation of crepitation or friction when the tendon is moved in its sheath. The crepitation may be soft like the friction of snow, or may resemble the creaking of new leather—“ saddle-back creaking.” There may be swelling in the long axis of the tendon, and redness and oedema of the skin. If there is an effusion of fluid into the sheath, the swelling is more marked and crepitation is absent. There is usually little tendency to the formation of adhesions.