FLAT-FOOT. 755 form may also be removed. The foot i.s then forcibly inverted, and the cut bony surfaces are brought into contact and fixed by pegs. Snpra-maUeolar osteotomy of the tibia and fibula (Trendelen- burg) is equally efficient in allowing the foot to be inverted. After either operation the limb is encased in plaster, or put up in a Dupuytren splint. Spasmodic Flat-foot—There are cases of fiat-foot in which pain and muscular spasm, chiefly of the peronei, are the [ire- dominant features. If the spasm is not allayed by rest in bed and hot fomentations, it is to be eliminated by a general anaesthetic. The foot then becomes (|uite loose and is easily inverted, and in this position it is encased in jilaster of Paris. Paralytic Flat-foot (Fig. 300). —In typical cases this results from infantile [laralysis affecting the tibialis anticus or [losticus, or both. When other groups of muscles are affected at the same time, compound de- formities, such as pes calcaneo-valgus, are more likely to result. In uncomjilicated paralytic valgus the inner border of the foot is depressed and convex towards the sole, and although the foot can readily be restored to the normal position liy manipulation, it at once resumes the valgus attitude when left to itself. The leg is wasted, the foot is cold and livid, and the ankle tends to be flail-like. The treatment consists in the transplantation of tendons—.substituting the flexor lougus digitorum, peroneus longus, or one-half of the tendo Achillis for the paralysed tibial muscles—or in liringing about an ankylosis of the joints above and below the astragalus. Traumatic flat-foot is that form which results directly from injury. It is most often due to a fall from a height on to the soles of the feet; the ligaments supjiorting the arch are ruptured, and the bones are displaced either at the time of the injury, or later when the patient begins to walk. The arch can only be restored by a wedge-resection of the tarsus similar to that described above. Loss of the arch may follow as a result of walking on the everted foot after injuries about the ankle. Fig. 300.—Bilateral Pe.s Valgus in a girl ret. 15, tlie result of infantile paralysis.