RICKETS. 615 The majority of rickety patients seen in surgical practice suffer rather from the deformities resulting from rickets than from the disease itself. The examination of a large series of children at different ages shows that the deformities become less and less frequent with each year. Those who recover may ulti- mately show no traces of rickets, and this is especially true of children who grow at the average rate ; in those, however, in whoju growth is retarded, especially from the fifth to the seventh year, the deformities are apt to become permanent. It may be noted that scoliosis of rickety origin has little tendency towards recovery. Treatment.—The treatment of the disease consists in regulating the diet, improving the surroundings of the patient, and preventing deformity. In the first instance it may I)e necessary to attend to the stomach and bowels. Fresh air and sunshine are recom- mended, with precautions against catching cold. A change to the seaside, and the use of salt-water baths, followed by massage, are of great value. Phosphorus in doses of 100th grain may be given dissolved in cod-liver oil, and preparations of iron and lime may be added with advantage. In order to avoid those postures which predispose to deformities the child should lie as much as possible. In the well-to-do classes this is readily achieved by the aid of a nurse and the use of a perambulator. In hospital out- patients the child is kept off its feet by the use of a light wooden splint applied to the outer aspect of each lower ex- tremity and extending from the pelvis to six inches beyond the sole. Splints and apparatus which admit of the child walking are not to be recommended. When deformities have already developed, the treatment de- pends upon whether or not there is any prospect of spontaneous recovery. Under five years of age recovery may, as a rule, be confidently expected. The child should be kept off its feet, and the limbs bathed and massaged. In children of five or six and upwards the prospect of natural recovery is a diminishing one, and the more satisfactory means of correcting the deformity is by operation. In rickety curvature of the spine, the child should lie on a firm mattress, or, to allow of its being taken into the open air, upon a double Thomas’ splint extending from the occiput to the heels; the muscles acting on the trunk should be braced up by massage and appropriate exercises. Late Rickets, Malacia of Puberty, or Rachitis Adolescen- tium is met with at any age from nine to seventeen, and is generally believed to be due to a recrudescence of rickets which had been present in early childhood. The disease is not attended with any disturbance of the general health, and is local, the patho-