173 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. Treatment is conducted on the same lines as in late second- ary syphilis, mercury and iodides being given in combination. Sometimes the preparation known as Donovan’s solution, con- taining the double iodide of mercury and arsenic, is to be preferred. The general health usually requires to be built up by tonics and change of air, and a sea-voyage may be found of great value in increasing the resisting powers of the patient. Tertiary Syphilis. — Although a two years’ course of mercury nearly always prevents the manifestations which fall to be de.scribed under this head, it is impossible to give a guarantee to this effect in any individual case. While the manifestations of primary and secondary syphilis are common, those of the tertiary period are by comparison rare, and are observed chiefly in those who have either neglected treatment or who have had their powers of resistance lowered by privation, by alcoholic indulgence, or by tropical disease. The general characters of tertiary manifestations may be stated as follows. They attack by preference the tissues derived from the mesoblastic layer of the embryo—the cellular tissue, bones, muscles, and viscera. They are often localised to one particular tissue or organ, such, for example, as the subcutaneous cellular tissue, the bones, or the liver, and they are rarely symmetrical. They are usually aggressive and persistent, with little tendency to natural cure, and they may be dangerous to life, because of the destructive changes produced in such organs as the brain or the larynx. They are remarkably amenable to treatment by iodides, if these are given before that stage is reached which is attended with destruction of tissue. Early tertiary lesions may be in- fective and the disease may be transmitted by the discharges from them; but the later the lesions the less is the risk of their containing an infective vii’us. The most ^Ji'ominent feature of tertiary syphilis consists in the formation of granulation tissue, and this takes place on a scale considerably larger than that observed in lesions of the secondary period. The granulation tissue frequently forms a definite swelling or tumour-like mass (syphiloma), which, from its peculiar elastic consistence, is known as a gumma. The gumma does harm by displacing and replacing the normal tissue elements of the part affected, and by involving these in the degenerative changes, of the nature of caseation and necrosis, which it is liable to undergo, and which result in the well-known destructive lesions of the skin, mucous membranes, and internal organs. This is true not only of the circumscribed mass or gumma, but of the condition in which the