408 INJURIES OF BONES. determining the displacement. For example, in fracture im- mediately below the lesser trochanter of the femur (Fig. 178), the ilio-psoas tends to tilt the upper fragment forward and outward; in supra-condylar fracture of the femur, the muscles of the calf pull the lower fragment back towards the popliteal space; and in fracture of the humerus above the deltoid insertion, the muscles inserted into the bicipital groove adduct the upper fragment. Clinical Features of Simple Fractures.—In the first place, the history of the accident should be investigated, attention being paid to the natui’e of the violence—whether a blow, a twist, a wrench, or a crush, and whether the violence was directly or indirectly applied. The degree of the violence may often be judged approximately from the instrument inflicting it — whether, for example, a fist, a stick, a cart wheel, or a piece of heavy machinery. The position of the limb at the time of the injury ; whether the muscles were braced to meet the blow or were lax and taken unawares; and the patient’s sensations at the moment, such as his feeling something snap or tear, may all furnish information useful for purposes of diagnosis. Signs of Fracture.—The most characteristic signs of fracture are unnatural mobility, deformity, and crepitus. Unnatural mobility—that is, movement between two segments of a limb at a place where movement does not normally occur -—may be evident when the patient makes attempts to use his limb, or may only be elicited when the fragments are seized and moved in opposite directions or rotated. Deformity., or the part being “ out of drawing ” in comparison with the normal side (Figs. 143 and 204), varies with the site and direction of the break, and depends upon the degree of displacement between the fragments. Crepitus is the name applied to the peculiar grating or clicking which may be heard or felt when the fractured surfaces are rubbed against one another. The presence of these three signs in association is sufficient to prove the existence of a fracture, but the absence of one or more of them does not negative this diagnosis. There are certain fallacies to be guarded against. For example, a fracture may exist and yet unnatural mobility may not be present, because the bones are impacted into one another, or because the fracture is an incomplete one. Again, the extreme tension of the swollen soft tissues overlying the fractui’e may prevent the recognition of movement between the fragments. Deformity also may be absent — as, for instance, when there is no