717 CHAPTER XXXI. THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. Palsies of cliildren : Infantile spinal paralysis—Spiastic paralysis—Con- genital dislocation of hip—Paralytic deformities—Contractures and ankyloses of hip—Coxa vara—Congenital dislocations of knee and patella—Genu recurvatum—Paralytic deformities—Contractures and ankyloses of knee — Genu valgum and genu varum—Congenital deformities of leg—Bow-leg—Club-foot; Talipes equmo varus—Pcs equinus—Pes calcaneus—Pcs calcaneo-valyus and varus—Pes cavus —Flat-foot aud pes valgus — Metatarsalgia — Hallux valgus and bunion—Hallux varus—Hallux rigidus and flexus—Hammer toe— Hypertrophy of toes—Supernumerary toes—Webbed toes — Con- genital absence of clavicle—Winged scajiula—Congenital paralytic deformities of shoulder — Deformities of elbow—Club-band—De- formities of wrist—Deformities of fingers—Dupuytren’s contraction —Polydactylism. In this chapter we shall study those abnormalities in the attitude and form of the limbs—whether congenital or acquired—which are capable of being benefited by mechanical or operative treatment. This subject constitutes an important branch of what is known as orthopaedic surgery. The important part played by the palsies of children in the production of deformities necessitates a short description of these affections. Infantile spinal paralysis results from an affection of the spinal cord known as anterior poliomyelitis, which occurs during the first few years of life. After an illness of a few days, attended with fever, the child is found to have lost power in one of the lower extremities ; less frequently both legs are paralysed, or one or rarely both arms. For a time the paralysis remains stationary, but after a period varying from six weeks to three months, it tends to diminish both in extent and in degree, and in the majority of cases it ultimately persists only in certain groups of muscles. The limb affected is cold and the skin often bluish, and it readily ulcerates if exposed to pressure ; the reflexes are lost; the paralysed muscles are wasted and for a time exhibit the reaction of degeneration. The limb lags behind its fellow in growth, and it tends to assume a deformed attitude, which at first can easily be