428 INJUEIES OF BONES. tlie method advocated by Bier, and this plan should always be tried in the first instance.' An elastic bandage is applied above tlie seat of fracture, sufficiently tightly to congest the limb beyond, and, to concentrate the congestion in the vicinity of the fracture, an ordinary bandage should be applied from the distal extremity to within a few inches of the break. The congestion should be maintained for several hours (six to twelve) daily. An accurately fitting apparatus should be adjusted to enable the patient to get into the open air. This method of treatment should be persevered with for three or four weeks, and the limb should be massaged daily while the bandage is off. Among the other methods which have been recommended are the injection of oil of turpentine between the fragments (Mikulicz); the forcible rubbing of the ends together, under an ansesthetic if necessary; and the administration of thyroid extract. If these methods fail, the parts may be ex})osed by operation, and the ends of the bones rawed, and pegged or wired. As a rule satisfactory union is ultimately obtained, although much patience is required. Want of Union—“ Un-united Fracture.”-^In a few cases union entirely fails to take place, and the condition is spoken of as an un-united fracture. The most common local cause of non- union is the interposition of a portion of muscle, tendon, or other soft tissue between the ends of the bones. This is most liable to occur in oblique fractures with overlapping of the fragments, and it may be suspected if, with the X-rays, a clear space is seen between the fragments. Any interference with the circulation of the limb, and any form of bacterial infection leading to suppuration in the region of the fracture, is liable to lead to non-union. Fractures inside the capsule of a joint, for example, the hip or shoulder, may also fail to unite, probably because the short fragment has but a poor vascular supply, and because it is impossible to maintain accurate apposition of the fragments. The fragments become atrophied, the ends rounded, and the medullary cavity obliterated, and the ends of the bone remain separate and freely movable. The whole limb may share in this atrophy. In adults, this is most frequently met with in the humerus and in the femur, and in most cases union may be brought about by operative measures. In children, it is occasionally met with in the bones of the leg, and is seldom, if ever, cured by operation. The lower fragments in these cases become very small and thin, and the limb is so useless that amputation is usually necessary.