637 ANKYLOSIS. anJci/losis or synostosis is an osseous union between articulating surfaces (Figs. 243 and 244). It may follow upon fibrous or cartilaginous ankylosis, or may result from the fusion of two osseous surfaces which have lost their cartilage and become covered vrith granulations. In the majority of cases it is to be regarded as a reparative })rocess, presenting certain analogies with the union of fractures. It may be a secpiel of any disease of joints, and especially of such as are attended with suppuration. In addition to those forms of osseous ankylosis, which are clearly reparative in nature, others occur, the etiology and pathology of which are as yet unknown. The name arthritis ossificans has been applied by .loseph Griffiths to one group of these exceptional cases. The alleged occurrence of ankylosis from mere disuse of a joint has not been corroborated. The occurrence of ankylosis in a joint before the skeleton has attained maturity does not appear to impair the growth in length of the bones affected. Any arrest of growth which may occur probably depends more on changes in the epiphysial junctions resulting from the original disease than on fusion of the bones. In order to diagnose between muscular fixation and ankylosis, it may be necessary to anaesthetise the patient. The nature and extent of ankylosis may be learned by manipulating the limb or by skiagraphy. In fibrous ankylosis mobility may be elicited, although only to a slight degree and with pain ; while in osseous ankylosis the joint is rigidly fixed, and attempts to move it are painless. The treatment is influenced by the nature of the original disease, the variety of the ankylosis, and the attitude and functions of the joint concerned. In a case of fibrous ankylosis, if the aim is a movable joint, treatment is directed towards elongating or rupturing the fibrous union between the bones. Fig. 244.—Osseous Ankylosis of Knee in the flexed position follow- ing upon Tuberculous Arthritis. (Anatomical Museum, University of Eiliiiburgh.)