CAPILLARY ANGIOMA. 285 naevi occurring on the face. A pointed piece of wood is dipped in strong nitric acid, and then thrust into the centre of the niBvoid spot. For large nsevi situated on an exposed part of the body, where it is desirable to avoid a scar, either igni-})uncture, or electrolysis is to be preferred. Excision is better when the ncevus is on a part covered by the clothes. liini-puncture consists in making a number of punctures at different parts of the nmvus with a fine-pointed Paquelin’s thermo- cautery, with the object of starting at each point a process of cicatrisation which extends throughout the mevoid tissue and so obliterates the vessels. Electrolysis acts by decomposing the blood and tissues into their constituent elements—oxygen and acids appearing at the positive, hydrogen and bases at the negative electrode. These substances and gases being given off’ in a nascent condition, at once enter into new combinations with anything in the vicinity with which they have a chemical affinity. In the nsevus the practical result of this reaction is that at the positive pole nitric acid, and at the negative pole caustic potash, both in a state of minute subdivision, make their appearance. The effect on the tissues around the positive pole, therefore, is equivalent to that of an acid cauterisation, and on those round the negative pole to an alkaline cauterisation. As the process is painful, a general anaesthetic is necessary. The current used should be from 20 to 80 milliamperes, gradually increasing from zero, without shock; three to six large Bunsen cells give a sufficient current. Steel needles insulated with vulcanite to within an eighth of an inch of their points are the best. Both poles are introduced into the n:evus, the positive being kept fixed at one spot, while the negative is moved about inside the tumour, so as to produce a number of different tracks of cauterisation. On no account must either pole be allowed to come in contact with the skin lest a slough be formed. The duration of the sitting is determined by the effect produced, the average dui’ation lieing from fifteen to twenty minutes. The object aimed at is to produce hardening of the tumour. If pallor of the skin appears, it indicates that the needles are too near the surface, or that the blood-supply to the integument is being cut off, and is an indication to stop. To cauterise the track and so prevent bleeding, the needles should be slowly withdrawn while the current is flowing. When the skin is reached the current is turned off. The punctures are covered with collodion. Six or eight weeks should be allowed