552 INJURIES IN REGION OF KNEE AND LEG. crescent remaining in position, while the inner crescent passes in between the condyles and lies curled up against the crucial ligaments. Occasionally the anterior end is torn from its attachment to the tibia, less frequently the posterior end. In one case we found the cartilage separated at both ends and lying outside the joint. The clinical features are similar to those of mobile cartilage with displacement, and as a rule the nature of the lesion is only discovered after opening the joint. The treatment consists in excising the loose tag or the whole cartilage, according to circumstances. It is never advisable to attempt to stitch the torn portion in position. Rupture of the Crucial Ligaments.—A few cases have been recorded in which, as a result of severe twisting forms of violence, the crucial ligaments have been torn from their attachments, leaving the joint loose and unstable, so that the tibia and the femur may be moved laterally on one another. When the disability persists the joint may be opened and the ligaments sutured in position (Mayo-Robson). Sprains of the knee are comparatively common as a result of sudden twisting or wrenching of the joint. In addition to the stretching or tearing of the ligaments, there is usually a considerable effusion of fluid into the synovial cavity. The swelling which results Alls up the hollows on either side of the patella, and extends for some distance in the synovial pouch underneath the quadriceps tendon. The j^atella is raised from the front of the femur by the collection of fluid in the joint—“ floating patella ”—and if firmly pressed upon, it may be made to rap against the trochlear surface. A sprain is to be diagnosed from separation of one or other of the adjacent epiphyses, fractures involving the articular ends of the bones, and displacement of the semilunar cartilages. On account of the swelling which obscures the outline of the part, the differential diagnosis is often difficult. Chief reliance is to be placed upon the bones retaining their normal relation- ships, and upon the fact that the points of maximum tender- ness are over the attachments of the lateral ligaments. As the internal lateral ligament suffers most frequently, the most tender- spot is usually over its attachments to the inner aspect of the head of the tibia—less frequently over the internal condyle. Unless efficiently treated a sprain of the knee is liable to result in weakness and instability of the joint from stretching of the ligaments, and this is often associated with effusion of fluid in the synovial cavity (traumatic hydrops). This is more likely