208 TUMOURS. stroma is abundant and composed of dense fibrous tissue, the tumour is hard, and is known as a scirrhus cancer—a form which is most frequently met with in the breast. If the cells undergo degeneration and absorption and the stroma con- tracts, the tumour becomes still harder, and tends to shrink or contract and to draw in the surrounding parts, in the breast leading to retraction of the nipple and overlying skin, and in the stomach and intestine to narrowing of the lumen. When the cells of the tumour undergo colloid degeneration, a rare form of cancer — colloid cancer — is produced. Melanin pig- ment is formed in relation to the cells and stroma of certain epithelial tumours, giving rise to the melanotic cancer (Figs. 85, 86). Cystic carcinomata are those in which cyst - like spaces are formed in the tumour by the accumulation of the secretion of the epithelial cells, or as a result of their degeneration. They are met with chiefly in the breast and ovary, and resemble very closely the cystic adenomata, only they tend to infect their surroundings and to give rise to secondary growths. Rodent cancer originates in the glands of the skin, and presents a special tendency to break down and ulcerate on the surface (p. 371). It very rarely infects the adjacent lymphatic glands. Dermoids.—-A dermoid is defined as a tumour containing skin or mucous membrane and occurring in a situation where these tissues are not met with under normal conditions. iikin dermoids, or Derma-cysts as they have been called by Askanazy, arise from portions of epiblast sequestrated in the course of development. When, during embryonic life, coales- cence is taking place between two cutaneous surfaces, a portion of epiblast becomes detached or sequestrated, and remains em- bedded until at some future period it becomes the starting-point of a dermoid. Such a dermoid usually presents the form of a globular cyst, the wall of which consists of skin and the contents of turbid fluid containing desquamated epithelium, fat droplets, cholesterin crystals, and detached hairs. Delicate hairs may also be found projecting from the epithelial lining of the cyst. Such dermoids occur on the trunk in situations where the lateral halves of the body coalesce during development, but they are more commonly met with on the face and neck in the situation of the various clefts and fissures of the embryo. Faulty coales- cence of the cutaneous covering of the back occurs most fre- quently over the lower sacral vertebrae, giving rise to small congenital recesses, known as post-anal dimples and coccygeal