589 ACUTE OSTEOMYELITIS. genetic functions, often to an exaggerated degree. Where the periosteum has been lifted up from the shaft by an accumulation of pus, or is in contact with bone which is dead, it proceeds to form new bone with great activity, so that the dead shaft becomes sur- rounded by a sheath or case of new bone, known as the involucrwm (Fig. 218). Where the periosteum has been perfoi’ated by pus making its way to the surface, there are defects or holes in the involucrum, called doacce. As these correspond more or less in posi- tion to the sinuses in the skin, in passing a probe down one of the sinuses it usually passes through a cloaca and strikes the dead bone lying in the interior. If the periosteum has been extensively destroyed, new bone may only be formed in small patches here and there, or not at all. The tissue cells and capillary loops on the internal aspect of the new case form a lining of granulations which, if in immediate contact with the dying bone, eat into its surface and partly absorb it. The bone in process of separa- tion thus acquires a pitted, grooved, or worm-eaten appearance, and under- goes diminution in size. If the peri- osteal surface of the bone is bathed in pus, it remains smooth and intact. The separation of the dead bone from the living is eftected by granulation tissue aided by osteoclasts, which eat into the living as well as into the dead bone, so that separation takes place at the expense of both. Ultimately the dead bone becomes loose and forms a sequestrum which usually [>resents an eroded or worm-eaten appearance. The .sequestrum is usually white, but may be discoloured by the products of decom- position. The separation of the sequestrum in the vicinity of the ossifying junction takes place more rapidly than in the compact bone of the shaft. When foci of suppuration have been scattered up and Fig. 218.—Shaft of the Tibia after Acute Osteomyelitis. The shaft of the bone has undergone extensive necrosis, and a shell of new bone has been formed by the perios- teum. (Specimen originally figured by J.anies Syme in his Principles of Surgery and now In Mr. Annan- dale's collection.)