83 TREATMENT OF ULCERS. organisms of suppuration, erysipelas, or other specific diseases ; phlebitis, with formation of septic emboli, leading to pyaemia, is liable to occur; and in old persons it is not uncommon for ulcers of long standing to become the seat of cancer. In addition, the offensive odour of many ulcers renders the patient a source of annoyance and discomfort to others. Principles of Treatment applicable to all Ulcers. — The primary object of treatment in any ulcer is to bring it into the condition of a healing sore. When this has been effected nature will do the rest, provided extraneous sources of irritation are excluded. Rest is an essential condition to the repair of all ulcers, and is best secured by confining the patient to bed. Elevation of the part to facilitate the venous return is also most important. The limb should be placed on pillows, or the foot of the bed raised upon blocks, so that the ulcer lies at a higher level than the heart. These measures at the same time encourage the absorption of inflammatory exudation around the ulcer, and this may be aided by massage. In certain varieties of ulcers associated with altered trophic innervation, nerve-stretching has been employed with advantage. The use of elastic pressure or of strapping also accelerates the removal of exudation around ulcers, and so facilitates the contraction of the sore. The removal of all sources of irritation, such as unsuitable dressings, ill-fitting splints, irritating applications, and, above all, septic organisms and their products, is imperative. A septic ulcer must be thoroughly disinfected by washing not only the open surface, but also the skin for some distance around it, with an antiseptic lotion, such, for example, as lysol (1 in 100), to remove grease, and then with Lister’s strong solution or carbolic lotion (1 in 20). Hair-covered parts should be shaved. The raw surface should then be swabbed over with undiluted carbolic acid or sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen. If the granulations are oedematous and unhealthy, they may be removed with a sharp spoon. An antiseptic dressing is then applied, and changed daily till the wound assumes a healthy appearance. As the patient’s health is below par, good nourishing food, tonics, and general hygienic treatment are indicated. By paying attention to these general rules, and by employing certain special measures in different varieties of ulcers, the conditions of a healing sore will be obtained. Management of a Healing Sore.—Perhaps the best dressing