586 DISEASES OF BONE. The swelling appears earlier and is more definite in superficial bones, such as the tibia, ulna, or clavicle, than in those more deeply placed, such as the upper end of the femur or humerus. It may be less evident to the eye than to the fingers, and is best appreciated by palpating the bone from the middle of its shaft towards its end. The maximum thickening and the tenderness usually correspond to the junction of the shaft with the epiphysis, and the swelling tails off gradually towards the diaphysis. As time goes on, there is diffuse redness of the skin, especially over a superficial bone, such as the tibia. The swelling becomes elastic and yielding, and gives definite evidence of fluctuation. This stage may be reached at the end of twenty-four hours, or not for some days. Suppuration spreads towards the surface, until,^at the end of several days, the swelling bursts and the pus escapes, after which the fever usually remits and the pain and other symptoms are relieved. The pus may contain blood and droplets of fat derived from the marrow, and in some cases minute particles of bone are present also. The presence of fat and bony particles in the pus confirms the medullary origin of the suppuration. If an operation is performed, the periosteum is found to be raised from the bone, and the extent of the bare bone corresponds fairly accurately with the extent of the lesion in the marrow. Local Complications. — The adjacent joint may exhibit symptoms which vary from those of a simple effusion to those of a purulent arthritis. The joint symptoms may account for little in the clinical picture, or may so predominate as to overshadow those of the bone lesion from which they originated. Displacement of the epiphysis may take place insidiously, and reveal itself by an alteration in the attitude of the limb, which may resemble that of a dislocation ; it is nearly always associated with suppuration in the adjacent joint. When pathological fractnre of the shaft occurs, as it may do, from some muscular effort or strain of the limb, it is attended with the usual signs of fracture. Pathological dislocation has been chiefly observed at the hip, and it may or may not be associated with suppuration in the joint; it may result from effusion into the joint with stretching of the ligaments, or may be the sequel of a purulent arthritis. Cases are sometimes met with in which there is suppurative osteomyelitis in the femur on one side, and dislocation of the hip without suppuration on the other. General Complications. — In some cases a multiplicity oj lesions in the bones and joints imparts to the disease the features