443 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. middle thirds, just where the two natural curves of the bone meet, and where the supporting muscular and ligamentous attachments are weakest. The fracture so produced is usually oblique from above, downwards and inwards. The sternal fragment may be slightly drawn upwards by the sterno-cleido-mastoid, while the outer fragment falls by the weight of the arm, and the fragments usually overlap to the extent of about half an inch. The shoulder, having lost the buttressing support of the clavicle, falls in towards the chest wall, narrowing the axillary space, while the weight of the, arm pulls it downward, and the muscles in- serted in the region of the bicipital gi-oove pull it forward. Fracture of the middle third may result also from a direct stroke, such as the recoil of a gun, or from violent muscular contraction, the fracture as a rule being transverse, and the displacement less marked than in fracture by indirect violence. Clinical Features.—The attitude of the patient is char- acteristic. The elbow is flexed, and is supported by the o})posite hand, while the head is inclined tow'ards the affected shoulder to relax the muscles of the neck. Crepitus is elicited on bracing back the shoulders, or on attempting to raise the arm beyond the horizontal, and these movements cause pain. Tenderness is elicited on making pressure over the seat of fracture, and also on distal [)ressure. The sternal fragment almost invariably overrides the acromial, and can usually be palpated through the skin; on measurement, the clavicle is found to be shortened. When the fracture is incomplete (green- stick) or transverse the symptoms are less marked. Simultaneous fracture of both clavicles usually results from a severe transverse crush of the upper part of the thorax or from a fall on the outstretched hands. The middle third of the l)one is implicated, and there is marked displacement and overriding. The patient is rendered helpless, and from the extrinsic muscles of respiration being tlirowm out of action, and the weight of the powerless limbs pressing on the chest, dyspnoea is a frequent accompaniment. These fractures are often complicated by injuries of the lung and pleura. Fracture of the outer third of the clavicle is much less common, and usually results from direct violence, the bone being driven down against the coracoid process, and broken as one breaks a stick over the knee. The fracture may take place through the attachment of the conoid and trapezoid liga- ments, in which case the only symptoms are pain and tenderness at the seat of fracture, with impaired movement of the limb.