684 DISEASES OF INDIVIDUAL JOINTS. of the extensor tendons. Wasting of the thenar and hypothenar eminences, and filling up of the hollows above and below the anterior annular ligament, render the appearance on the palmar aspect very characteristic. The attitude is one of slight flexion with drooj^ing of the hand and fingers. The fingers become stiff as a result of ad- hesions in the tendon sheaths, and the power of opposing the thumb and fingers may be lost. Pain is usually absent until the articular surfaces become carious, and then it is elicited by movement. Softening of the ligaments may result in lateral mobility and sometimes in partial dislocation. Abscess formation may be followed by the formation of sinuses, and infection of the tendon sheaths, especially those in the palm. The exact localisation of disease in individual bones or joints may be determined by the positions of pain elicited on pressure or movement, by the use of the X-rays, or by the probe when sinuses are present. Treatment.—Conservative measures may be persevered with over a longer period than in most other joints. The forearm, wrist, and metacarpus are immobilised in the attitude of dorsal flexion, while the fingers and thumb are left free to allow of passive movements. It may be necessary to give an anciesthetic to obtain the necessary degree of dorsiflexion. To inject iodoform, the needle is inserted immediately below the radial or the ulnar styloid process. Sometimes the carjral bones are so soft that the needle may be made to penetrate them in different directions. Abscess is treated on the usual lines. Excision of the diseased bones and synovial membrane by a single ulnar incision (Heron Watson) is a satisfactory operation, and usually yields a movable joint. It is indicated in cases which resist conservative measures, or when the general health calls for removal of the disease. Otiber diseases of the wrist are comparatively rare. They include pyogenic aflections such as those resulting from septic conditions in the palm of the hand, different types of gonorrhoeal, rheumatic, and gouty affections, and arthritis deformans. The Hip-Joint. Owing to the dejith of this joint from the surface, it is not possible to detect the presence of effusion or of synovial thickening as readily as in other joints, hence in the recognition of hip disease we have to rely very largely upon indirect evidence, such as a limp in walking, an alteration in the attitude of the limb, or restriction of the normal movements of the joint. In