436 INJURIES OF JOINTS. The displaced bone, and sometimes the empty socket, may be palpable. Ducoloration is usually later of appearing than in fractures. Alteration in the length of the injured limb—usually in the direction of shortening—is a very constant feature; while girth measurements commonly show an increase. A peculiar soft grating or creaking sensation is often felt on attempting to move the joint. This is due to cartilaginous or ligamentous structures rubbing on one another, and must not be mistaken for the crepitus of fracture. When the disloca- tion has been reduced, in the great majority of cases although not in all, the bones retain their proper relations without external support. A careful investigation of the kind of force which produced the injury, particularly as regards its intensity and direction of action, may aid in the diagnosis. The diagnosis can always be verified by the use of the Rontgen rays, and this should be had recourse to whenever possible. Prognosis.—After having once been dislocated, a joint is seldom as strong as it was formerly, although for all practical purposes the limb may be as useful as ever. Some degree of stiffness, of limited movement, or of muscular weakness, and occasional arthritic pains, and a liability to redislocation are the com- monest sequeliE. Prolonged immobili.sation is liable to lead to stiffness by permitting of the formation of adhesions, or of fibrous thickejiings of tendons or ligaments; while too early movement tends to produce a laxity of the ligaments which favours redi.splacement from .slight causes. Treatment.—Reduction should be attempted at the earliest possible moment. Every hour of delay increases the difficulty. The guiding indnciple is to cause the displaced bone to re-enter its socket by the same route as that by which it left it—that is, through the existing rent in the capsule. This is done by carrying out certain manipulations which depend upon the anatomical arrangement of the parts, and which vary, not only with different joints, but also with different varieties of disloca- tion of the same joint. In general terms it may be said that the main impediments to reduction are : the contraction of the muscles acting upon the displaced bone; the entanglement of the bone among tendons or ligamentous bands which fix it in its abnormal position; and the rent in the capsule being small or valvular, so that it forms an obstacle to the bone re-entering the socket. Muscular contraction is best overcome by the administration of a general aiiiesthetic, and in all but the simplest cases this should be given to ensure accurate and painless reduction.