PES EQUINUS. 747 the lengthening of the limb by flexing the knee and throwing the limb outwards in walking. In severe cases, especially when both limbs are affected, the patient may be entirely dependent on crutches. The astragalus projects on the dorsum, the anterior part of its trochlear surface escapes from the tibio-flbular socket, and the os calcis is drawn up so that it comes into contact with the bones of the leg (Eig. 295). Shortening of the soft })arts affects chiefly the muscles inserted into the tendo Achillis, the j)osterior liga- ment, and posterior parts of the lateral liga- ments of the ankle. The fascise, ligaments and muscles of the sole of the foot are also shortened. The flexors of the toes, the tibialis posticus, and the peroneus longus are shortened to a less degree. Treatment.—Of all the deformities of the foot, pes equinus is that most easily rectified. The ti’eatment is conducted on the same lines as in talipes equino-varus. In recent cases a great deal may be done by regular manipulations, massage, exercises and electricity, and by the wearing of some corrective splint or apparatus between times. In well-marked cases it is necessary to divide the shortened structures, and especi- ally the tendo Achillis. It may be length- ened as follows: the tenotomy knife is introduced into the centre of the tendon close to its insertion, and is made to cut half-way across it: the knife is again in- troduced one inch higher up, and is made to cut across the opposite halt of the tendon. An open operation is to be preferred. On forcible ex- tension the tendon readily elongates to the desired extent. The excessive arching of the foot (pes cavus) and the clawing of the toes usually disappear when the equinus is corrected, but it may be necessary to divide the extensor tendons, especially that of the great toe, and also the plantar fascia. In aggravated cases of long standing, the bones must be attacked, as, for example, by excising the astragalus. Arthrodesis of the ankle and calcaneo-astragaloid joints may be indicated when these joints are flail-like. Amputation is reserved for cases which are otherwise hopeless. When the deformity is Fio. 295.—Skeleton of Foot from case of Pes E(iiiimis due to in- fantile paralysis.