744 THE DEFORMITIES OF THE EXTREMITIES. In the case of children before the tarsal bones have become completely ossified, Ogston has suggested that, instead of remov- ing a wedge from the tarsus, the osseous nucleus of each in- dividual bone should be gouged out, leaving the cartilaginous shell. In this way the intertarsal joints are not interfered with, the cartilaginous tarsus can be moulded so that when ossifica- tion is completed the bones differ but little from the normal. After any of these operative procedures, manipulations, mas- sage, exercises, electrical stimulation of the muscles and the wearing of some apparatus must be persevered with for at least twelve months. Failures are due to not sufficiently over-correcting the deformity in the first instance, and to neglect of after-treatment. Finally, amputation may be called for when other methods have failed, and the patient is unable to put the foot to the ground because of suppurating bursae and ulceration of the skin. Acquired Talipes Equino-varus.—In the great majority of cases this condition results from infantile paralysis, especially affecting the peronei and extensors of the toes, and is unilateral. The patient is unable to dorsi-flex and abduct the foot, which hangs with the toes pointed and the sole turned in (Fig. 292). At first the joints are quite flaccid, and the attitude can easily be corrected by manipulation. In course of time, however, the opposing muscles—those inserted into the tendo Achillis, the tibialis posticus, and the long flexors of the toes — become shortened, and there is secondary contraction of the plantar fascia and of the ligaments on the inner side of the foot, and the deformity is thus rendered permanent. The bones also are altered in their shape and mutual relations, the astragalus being rotated forwards so that a large portion of its trochlear surface protrudes from the tibio-fibular socket. The skin of the foot is cold and livid, and readily suffers from pi'essure sores. The whole limb is ill-developed, and may be shorter than its fellow, and the paralysed muscles are wasted and exhibit for a time the reaction of degeneration. A similar deformity may result from section of the external popliteal nerve, from the peroneal form of progressive muscular atrophy, and from peripheral neuritis. The treatment of talipes equino-varus due to infantile para- lysis varies in different cases. If the deformity is easily corrected, and the paralysis is confined to the extensor and peronei muscles, satisfactory results are obtained by reenforcing the paralysed muscles by those which are still active. For example, the tendo Achillis may be split longitudinally, one-half of it cut across and attached to the distal end of the divided