159 ACQUIRED SYPHILIS. very minute stream; stricture results only in the exceptional cases in which the chancre has ulcerated and caused destruction of tissue. A chancre within the orifice of the urethra is very rare, and being concealed from view its existence is recognised by the discharge from the meatus and Iry the induration felt between the finger and thumb. In the female, the primary lesion is not so typical or so easily recognised as in men; it is usually met with on the labia, and the induration is rarely characteristic and does not last so long; sometimes there are several indurated nodules, and according to Arthur Ward the primary lesion may take the form of coudy- lomata. The hard chancre is usually solitary, but cases are met with in which there are two or more ; when there are several, they are individually smaller than the solitary chancre. In all cases of multiple chancre it may be safely assumed that they are the result of simultaneous inoculation of the virus at several points. It is rather the exception for a hard chancre to leave a visible scar, hence in examining patients with a doubtful history of syphilis, little reliance can be placed on the presence or absence of a scar on the penis. When the primary lesion has taken the form of an open ulcer with purulent discharge, or has sloughed, there is a permanent scar. Infection of the adjacent lympltatic glands is usually found to have taken place by the time the primary lesion has acquired its characteristic induration. Several of the glands along Poupart’s ligament, on one or on both sides, become enlarged, rounded, and indurated; they are usually freely movable, and are rarely sensitive unless there is Superadded septic infection. The term hidlet-huho has been ap]died to them. Their presence is of value in diagnosis. In a certain number of cases, one of the main lymphatics on the dorsum of the penis is transformed into a fibrous cord easily recognisable on palpation, and when grasped between the fingers appears to be in size and consistence not unlike the vas deferens. Concealed chancres is the term applied when one or more chancres are situated within the sac of a tight prepuce which cannot be retracted. If the induration is well marked they can be palpated through the prepuce, and they are tender on pressure. As under these conditions it is impossible for the patient to keep the parts clean, septic infection becomes a prominent feature, the prepuce is oedematous and inflamed, and there is an abundant discharge of pus from its orifice. It occasionally happens that the septic infection assumes a virulent