INJURIES OF BONES. 404 has snapped across during the act of swinging a stick, the humerus in throwing a stone, and the femur when a kick has missed its object. Fractures of ribs have occurred during fits of coughing or in the violent efforts of parturition. Before concluding that a given fracture is the result of muscular action alone, it is necessary to exclude the co- existence of any of the conditions which lead to pathological fracture. Although the force acting upon the bone is the primary factor in the 2iroduction of fractures, there are certain subsidiary factors to be considered. Thus the age of the jjatient is of imirortance. During infancy and early childhood fractures are less common than at any other j^eriod of life, and are usually transverse, incomplete, and of the nature of bends. During adult life, especially between the ages of thirty and forty, the frequency of fractures reaches its maximum. In aged persons, although the bones become more brittle, by the marrow spaces in their interior becoming larger and filled with fat, fractures are less frequent, doubtless because the old are less exposed to such violence as is likely to jjroduce fracture. Males, from the nature of their occupations and recreations, sustain fractures much more frequently than do females, except in old age, when the opposite is the case. A liability to fracture is often hereditary, members of certain families showing a marked predisposition to this form of injury. Bennett of Dublin has drawm attention to the fact that the characters of a given fracture may be inferred from a considera- tion of—(1) the shape and structure of the affected bone, and (2) the nature of the fracturing force. As there is great uniformity in the shape, construction, and relative strength of a particular bone in different subjects, and as each part of any particular bone is liable to the same kinds and degrees of external violence or muscular strain, it follows that individual fractures conform more or less closely to a particular type. Thus, for example, the “tyjfical fracture” of the clavicle result- ing from indirect violence occurs in the middle third of the bone and is oblique (Fig. 105); while direct violence generally j^roduces a transverse fracture near the outer end of the bone. The typical fracture of the bones of the leg caused by direct force is trans- verse, and occurs in the lower third; while indirect violence produces an oblique fracture of the tibia low down, and of the fibula higher up (Figs.^202,'^203). Clinical Varieties of Fractures.—The most important sub- division of fractures is that into simple and compound, j