528 INJURIES OF PELVIS, HIP-JOINT, AND THIGH. ])roduced by direct or by indirect violence, and the displacement depends largely on whether the line of fracture is transverse or oblique. The upper fragment is tilted forward and rotated outward by the ilio-psoas muscle and the external rotators in.serted in the region of the great trochanter. The loAver fragment is pulled upward and rotated outward by the flexors and adductors, the weight of the limb ag- gravating the eversion. The tilting of the upper fragment may be increased by the displaced lower fragment pushing it for- ward. On account of the difficulty of con- trolling the short upper fragment, union is liable to take place with considerable shortening and deformity (Fig. 178). Treatment.—When it is found, under chloroform, that the displacement can be completely reduced, and the fragments kept in accurate apposition by carefully padded local splints, this fracture is treated on the same lines as fractui’es of the shaft of the bone. In cases in which the upper fragment cannot be brought into line with the lower one, however, it is necessary to flex and slightly rotate outward and abduct the thigh in order to get the fragments into apposition. This is most simply done by means of a double-inclined plane (Fig. 179), „ 1-0 , 1. while at the same time extension may be Femur just below applied 111 the axis of the thigh, the Srauli Trochanter Hodgen’s splint (Fig. 180) fulfils these united, showing flex- indications, and it has the advantage of ion and external permitting of the patient being moved or rotation of upper ^ - ^ c n frat^ment even propped up in bed without tear of disturbing the fracture. It consists of a wire frame to one side of which a series of strips of flannel about four inches wide are attached. The frame, which extends from the level of Poupart’s ligament to well beyond the sole, is placed over the front of the limb, and the loose ends of the flannel strips, brought round behind the limb, and fixed to the other side of the frame, convert it into a sling. The strips of flannel may be replaced with advantage by a strong, wide-meshed net. Extension strapping is applied to