658 DISEASES OF JOINTS. is only abandoned if improvement does not show itself after a thorough trial, or if the disease relapses after apparent cure. Ojierative Treatment.—Other things being equal, operation is more often indicated in adults than in children, because after the age of twenty there is less prospect of spontaneous recovery, there is more tendency for the disease to relapse and to invade the internal organs, and there is no fear of interfering with the growth of the bones. The state of the general health may necessitate operation as the most rapid method of removing the disease. The social status of the patient must also be taken into account; the bread-winner, under existing social conditions, may be unable to give up his work for a sufficient time to give conservative measures a fair trial, and the children of the poor cannot always obtain the necessary attention. The local conditions which decide for or against operation are differently regarded by different surgeons, but it may be said in general terms that operative interference is indicated in cases where the disease continues to progress in spite of a fair trial of conservative measures; in cases unsuited for conservative treatment—that is to say, where there is dislocation, separation of epiphysis, or deformity incapable of being otherwise rectified; where there are septic sinuses, and operation affords a reasonable prospect of getting rid of both the tuberculosis and the sepsis; and where the disease is associated with severe bone lesions or with infection of the lymphatics. Operative interference is indicated also when the result will be better than that likely to be obtained by conservative measures, as is often the case in the knee and elbow. The nature of the operative interference in many cases can only be decided after exploration of the joint. The aim is to remove all the disease with the least possible impairment of function and the minimum sacrifice of healthy tissue. The more open the method of operating the better, so that all parts of the joint may be available for inspection. Such methods as permit of dislocating the joint are specially to be recommended, since this procedure affords the freest possible access for in- spection and for removal of the disease. Cold abscesses .should, if possible, be cured before operating on the joint. Diseased synovial membrane is removed with the scissors or knife. If the cartilages are sound, and if a movable joint is aimed at, they may be left; but if ankylosis is desired they must be removed. Localised disease of the cartilage should be removed and the bone beneath investigated. If the articular surface is exten-