TUBERCULOUS LUPUS. 36] yellow scab forms over it. When this is removed a raw surface or ulcer is left which has little tendency to heal. These sores are most common about the hands, arms, neck, and feet, and are most apt to occur in those who have had no opi>ortunities of washing, and who have lived for a long period on tinned foods. The appearance of a number of white scars, each surrounded by a zone of pigmentation, is commonly observed in those who have suffered from veldt sores. Tuberculosis of the Skin.—Interest attaches chiefly to the primary forms of tuberculosis of the skin in which the bacilli usually penetrate from without—inoculation tubercle and lupus. The secondary forms of tuberculosis of the skin usually result from the rupture of cold abscesses which have originated from tuberculous disease of lymphatic glands, bones or joints. They are most often met with in the neck in association with disease in the glands, in the form of multiple tuberculous ulcers. Inoculation Tubercle. — The api>earances vary with the conditions under which the inoculation takes place. As observed ^on the fingers of adults, the affection takes the form of an indolent, }iainless swelling, the ei)idermis being red and glazed or warty and irregularly fissured. Sometimes the epidermis gives way, forming an ulcer with flabby granulations. The infection very rarely spreads to the lymphatics. In children who run about barefooted in town.s, tubercle may be inoculated into accidental wounds in the sole or about the toes, and although the local ai>pearances may not be characteristic, the nature of the infection is revealed by its tendency to spread up the limb along the lymi)hatic vessels, giving rise to eidai;gement, abscesses, and fungating ulcers in relation to the femoral glands. The treatment consists in excising the infected sore and covering the resulting raw surface with a Thiersch graft. When this is impracticable the infected tissues are I'emoved with the sharp spoon. Tuberculous Lupus.—This is an extremely chronic affection of the skin. It very rarely extends to the lymi)hatic glands, and of all tuberculous lesions is the least dangerous to life. The commonest form of lupus—lupus vulgaris—usually commences in childhood or youth, and is most often met with on the nose or cheek. The early and typical appearance is that of brownish- yellow or pink nodules in the skin, about the size of a hemp seed. Their characters are best studied by examining them through a lens pressed firmly against the skin. The appear- ance of the contents of these nodules has been likened to apple jelly. Microscopical examination of the skin shows the