209 DERMOIDS. sinuses. These reces.ses are lined with skin which is furnished witli hairs, sebaceous and sweat glands. If the external orifice becomes occluded, there results a dermoid cyst. Tuhtdo-dermoida arise from embryonic ducts and jiassages which are normally obliterated at birth; they are illustrated by those related to the thyro-glossal duct (lingual dermoids), the post-anal gut (rectal and post-rectal dermoids), and the In-anchial clefts (branchial dermoids). Tubulo-dermoids present the same structure as skin dermoids, save that in so far as they arise from a tube lined by mucous membrane this takes the place of skin in the wall of the cyst, and the contents are derived from the pent-up secretion of mucous glands. Clinical Features.—Although der- moids are of congenital origin, they are rarely evident at Ijirth, and may not give rise to visible tumours until pub- erty, when the skin and its ap})endages become more active, or even not till adult life. Superficial dermoids, such as those met with at the outer angle of the orbit, form rounded, definitely limited tumours, over which the skin is freely movable. They are usually adherent to the deeper parts, and when situated over the skull they may be lodged in a depression or actual gap in the bone. Sometimes the cyst becomes infected and suppurates, and finally ruptures on the surface. This may lead to a natural cure, or a persistent sinus may remain. Dermoids more deeply placed, such as those within the thorax, or those situated between the rectum and sacrum, give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis, and their nature is seldom recognised until the character of the contents—particularly hairs —supplies the clue. The literature of dermoid cysts is full of accounts of puzzling tumours met with in all sorts of situations. The treatment consists in removing the cyst. When it is impossible to remove the whole of the lining membrane by dissection, the portion which is left should be destroyed with the cautery. Ovarian Dermoids.—Dermoids are not uncommon in the ovary (Fig. 49). They usually take the form of unilocular or multilocular cysts, the wall of which contains skin, mucous VOL. 1—14 Fig. 49.—Dermoid Cyst of Ovary showing Teeth in its Interior.