21 LEUCOCYTOSIS. Pneumo-bacteria.—Two forms of organism are associated with pneumonia—FraenbeVs pneumococcus (one of the di[)lococci) (Fig. 4) and P'riedldndePs pneumo-bacillus (a short rod-shaped form). One or other of these may be met with in inflammation of the pericardium, the membranes of the brain, the middle ear, or of lymphatic glands, in suppuration in the pleural cavity or in the liver, and various other inflammatory and supi)urative conditions. They are most frequently found in company with the ordinary pyogenic bacteria, especially streptococci. Bacillus TyjFiosus.—This organism has been found in pure culture in suppurative conditions of bone, of cellular tissue, and of internal organs, especially during convalescence from typhoid fever. Like the staphylococcus it is capable of lying latent in the tissues for long periods. Other Pyogenic Bacteria.—It is not necessary to do more than name some of the other organisms which are known to be pyogenic, such as the bacillus pyocyaneus, which is found in green and blue pus; the micrococcus tetragenus; the gonococcus; actinomyces ; glanders bacillus, and the tubercle bacillus. Most of these will receive further mention in connection with the diseases to which they give rise. Leucocytosis.—Keoeiit investigations have shown that most bacterial diseases, as well as certain other pathological conditions, are associated with an increase in the number of leucocytes in the blood throughout the entire circulatory system. This condition of the blood, which is known as leucoajtosis, is believed to be due to an excessive output and rapid formation of leucocytes by the bone marrow, and it probably has as its object the arrest and destruction of the invading organisms or toxins. The normal number of leucocytes per cubic millimetre varies in different individuals, and in the same individual under different condi- tions, from .5000 to 10,000. It is generally accepted that 7500 is a normal average, and that anything above 12,000 is to be considered as abnormal. When leucocytosis is present the number may range from 12,000 to 30,000 or even higher ; 40,000 is looked upon as a high degree of leucocytosis. According to Ehrlich the following may be taken as the standard proportion of the various forms of leucocytes in normal blood : polynuclear neutrophile leucocytes, 70 to 72 per cent. ; lympho- cytes, 22 to 25 per cent. ; eosinophile cells, 2 to 4 per cent. ; large mono- nuclear and transitional leucocytes, 2 to 4 per cent. ; mast-cells, 0'5 to 2 per cent. In estimating the clinical importance of a leucocytosis, it is not suffi- cient merely to count the aggregate number of leucocytes present. A differential count must be made to determine which variety of cells is in excess. In the majority of surgical affections attended with leuco- cytosis it is chiefly the granular polymorpho-nuclear neutrophile leuco- cytes that are in excess {ordinary leucocytosis). In some cases, and particularly in parasitic diseases such as trichiniasis and hydatid disease, the eosinophile leucocytes also show a proportionate increase {eosino-