ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 303 .sometimes happens, symptoms of compression paraplegia ensue. In its growth the swelling may press upon and displace the adjacent viscera, and so interfere with their functions. The diagnosis has to be made from solid or cystic tumours overlying the artery ; from a “ pulsating aorta ” ; and from spinal caries. The use of the X-rays is sometimes helpful. The condition usually proves fatal, either by the abscess bursting suddenly into the peritoneal cavity, or by slow leakage into the retro-peritoneal tissue. Electrolysis and the Moore-Corradi method have been success- fully employed, access to the sac having been obtained by opening the abdomen. Ligature of the aorta has so far been unsuccessful. Innominate Aneurysm may be of the fusiform or of the sac- culated variety, and is frequently associated with aneurysm of the aorta. It usually grows upwards and outwards, projecting above the sternum and right clavicle, which may be eroded or displaced by it. Symptoms of pressure on the structures in the neck, similar to those produced by aortic aneurysm, occur. The pulses in the right upper extremity and in the right carotid and its branches are dimini.shed and delayed. Pressure on the right brachial plexus causes shooting pain down the arm and muscular pai’esis on that side. Vasomotor disturbances and contraction of the pupil on the right side may result from pressure on the sympathetic fibres. Death may take place from rupture, or from pressure on the air-}>assages. The available methods of treatment are ligature of the right common carotid and third part of the right subclavian (Wardrop’s operation), of which eight successful cases have been recorded. According to Sheen, of Cardiff, the cases most suitable for ligature are those in which the aneurysm is circumscribed and globular. If this is im})racticable, needling, electrolysis, or the Moore-Corradi method may be tried. Carotid Aneurysms.—Aneurysm of the common carotid is more frequent on the right than on the left side, and is usually situated either at the root of the neck or near the bifurcation of the artery. It is the form of external aneurysm most frequently met with in women. From its position the swell- ing is liable to press on the vagus, recurrent laryngeal and sympathetic nerves, on the air-passages, and on the oesophagus, giving rise to symptoms referable to such jjressure. There may be cerebral symptoms from interference with the vascular supply of the brain. Aneurysm near the origin of the common carotid has to be