156 SYPHILIS. be recognised in films obtained by scraping the i)rimary lesion, or from secondary lesions of the skin and mouth. It is of import- ance that it is found also in nou-ulcerated lesions, such as papules and buboes away from the primary sore; in the circulating and splenic blood in acquired syphilis; and in the blood and internal organs in the inherited form of the disease. It is absent from tertiary lesions, which, as will be pointed out, are not infective. Considerable interest attaches to the experiments of Metchnikoff and Roux, who have succeeded in conveying syphilis to the chimjjanzee, obtaining primary and secondary lesions similar to those observed in man, and also containing the spirochseta. Acquired Syphilis. In the vast majority of cases infection takes place during the congress of the sexes. Delicate, easily abraded surfaces are then brought into contact, and the discharge from lesions containing the virus is placed under favourable conditions for conveying the disease from one j)erson to the other. In the male the possibility of infection taking place is increa.sed if the virus is retained under cover of a long and tight prepuce, and if there are abrasions on the surface with which it comes in contact. The frequency with which infection takes place on the external genitals during sexual intercourse warrants syphilis being con- sidered a venereal disease, although there are other ways in which it may be contracted. Some of these imply direct contact—such, for example, as kissing, the digital examination of syphilitic patients by doctors or nurses, or infection of the surgeon’s fingers while opei’ating upon a sy|)hilitic patient. In suckling, a syphilitic wet uui'se may infect a healthy infant, or a syphilitic infant may infect a healthy wet nurse. In other cases the infection is by indirect contact, the virus being conveyed through the medium of articles contaminated by a syphilitic patient—such, for examine, as surgical instruments, tobacco pijjes, wind instruments, table utensils, towels, or underclothing. Physiological secretions, such as saliva, milk, or tears, are not capable of communicating the disease unless contaminated by discharge from a syphilitic sore. While the saliva itself is innocuous, it can be, and often is, contaminated by the discharge from mucous patches or other syphilitic lesions in the mouth and throat, and is then a dangerous source of infection. Unless these extra-genital sources of infection are borne in mind, there is a danger of failing to recognise the primary sore of syphilis in unusual positions, such