TUBERCULOUS LUPUS. 363 the disease is sometimes met with, to which the term lupus elephantiasis has been applied. It usually commences as an ordinary lupus of the toes or dorsum of the foot, from which the tuberculous infection spreads to the lymphatic vessels, and the limb as a whole becomes enormously swollen and unshapely (Fig. 80). Finally, a long-standing lupus, especially on the cheek, may become the seat of epithelioma—lu2nis epithelioma—usually of the exuberant or cauliflower ty[)e, which presents little tendency to infect the lymphatics. The diagnosis of lupus is founded on the recognition of the apple-jelly nodules, on the chronic progress and long duration, and the central scarring with peripheral extension of the disease. On the face it is most liable to be confused with syi»hilis and with rodent cancer. The syphilitic lesion belongs to the tertiary period, and although presenting a superficial resemblance to tuberculosis its progress is much more rapid, so that within a few months it may involve an area of skin as wide as would be affected by lupus in as many years. Further, it readily yields to anti-syphilitic treatment. In cases of tertiary syj^hilis in which the nose is destroyed, it will be noticed that the bones have suffered most, whereas in lupus the destruction of tis.sue involves chiefly the soft parts of the tip of the nose. Rodent cancer is very liable to be mistaken for lupus, because it may affect the same parts of the face, it is equally chronic, and may partially heal. It begins later in life, however, the margin of the ulcer is more -sharjily deflned, and often presents a “ rolled ” appearance (Figs. 82 and 83). The treatment of lupus varies with its situation, its extent, and the stage at which it is met. Although general treat- ment is indicated it is rarely curative, and local measures are required to eradicate what is after all a purely local disease. Numerous methods are employOd for the local treatment of lupus, and much difference of oi^inion exists as to the relative merits of these. When the disease is confined to a very limited area the most rapid and certain cure is obtained by excision. The whole thickness of skin is removed throughout and beyond the area affected; the edges of the gap are brought together by sutures, or the raw surface is covered with a Thiersch graft. On the covered parts of the body excision may be employed, even when the disease involves an extensive area. AVhen lupus covers a wide area of the face, as is more often the case in hospital practice, there is great difficulty in bringing about a cure. In recent years the therapeutic effects