of the breast, for example, the disease often extends to the adjacent skin, fat, and muscle; in cancer of the lip or tongue, to the lower jaw; in cancer of the uterus or intestine, to the investing peri- toneum. In addition to its tendency to infiltrate adjacent tissues and organs, cancer is also liable to give rise to secondary growths. These are most often met with in the nearest lymphatic glands : those in the neck, for example, becoming infected from cancer of the lip, tongue, or throat; those in the axilla, from cancer in the breast; those along the curvatures of the stomach, from cancer of the pylorus; and those in the groin, from cancer of the external genitals. In lymphatic vessels the cancer cells may merely accumulate so as to fiU the lumen and form indurated cords, or they may proliferate and give rise to secondary nodules along the course of the vessels. When the lymphatic network in the skin is diffusely infected the appearance is either that of a multitude of secondary nodules, or of a diffuse thickening, so that the skin comes to resemble coarse leather. On the wall of the chest this condition is known as cancer en cuirasse. Although the cancer cells very constantly attack the walls of the adjacent veins and spread into their interior at an early period, secondary growths due to dissemination by the blood- stream rarely show themselves clinically until late in the course of the disease. It is probable that many of the cancer cells which are carried away in the blood or lymph stream undergo necrosis and fail to give rise to secondary growths. Secondary growths present a faithful reproduction of the structure of the primary tumour. Apart from the lymphatic glands, the chief seats of secondary growths are the liver, lungs, serous membranes, and bone marrow. The tumour tissue may undergo necrosis, and when the overlying skin or mucous membrane gives way an ulcer is formed. The margins of a cancerous ulcer are made up of tumour tissue which has not broken down. Usually they are irregular, nodularly thickened or indurated ; sometimes they are raised and crater-like. The floor of the ulcer is smooth and glazed or occupied by necrosed tissue, and the discharge is watery and blood-stained, and as a result of putrefactive changes may become offensive. Haemorrhage is rarely a prominent feature, but the discharge of blood may constitute a symptom of con- siderable importance in cancer of internal organs such as the rectum, the bladder, or the uterus. Regarding the causes of cancer, much attention has been directed in recent years to the possibility of its origin from infec- tion with micro-organisms. It must be conceded, however, that