ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. 301 In many cases, the support of an elastic bandage is all that is necessary in the way of treatment, but when the condition causes serious inconvenience, an attemi)t may be made to separate the vessels and to close the opening in each by a fine suture, and, if this is impossible, the artery should be ligatured above and below the point of communication. Varicose aneurysm (Fig. 68) usually develops in relation to a traumatic aneurysm, the vein involved having formed adhesions with the sac, and ultimately opened into it. In this way a com- munication between the artery and the vein is established, and the clinical features are those of a combination of traumatic aneurysm and aneurysmal varix. As there is little tendency to spontaneous cure, and as the aneurysm is liable to increase in size and finally to rupture, opera- tive treatment is usually called for. This consists in applying a ligature to the artery above and below the point of communi- cation, and at the same time incising the sac, turning out the clots, and ligaturing any branches which haj)pen to open into the sac. The vein should not be ligatured unless it is absolutely necessary. ANEURYSMS OF INDIVIDUAL ARTERIES. After what has been said of aneurysm in general, it is only necessary to refer very briefly to the more salient points bearing on aneurysms as they occur in individual arteries. To avoid repetition, it may be stated that in the treatment of all aneurysms local measures are supplemented by the employment of the general constitutional treatment already described. It may also be assumed that while the measures mentioned as suitable to each of the special aneurysms are to be preferred, circumstances may make it necessary to have recourse to one of the other j^rocedures already mentioned. No hard-and-fast rules can be laid down for the treatment of a condition which varies so widely in different cases. Thoracic Aneurysm.—The arch of the aorta is the most common seat of aneurysm, but surgical treatment is rarely called for. All varieties of aneurysm occur in the aorta, the fusiform being the most common. Frequently a sacculated aneurysm springs from a fusiform dilatation. The clinical features depend chiefly on the direction in which the aneurysm enlarges, and are not always well marked even