FRACTUEES OF THE CLAVICLE. 445 action. It differe from the other injuries in this region in being more easily reduced and retained in position, the epiphysis lying entirely within the limits of the capsular ligament of the sterno- clavicular joint. The prognosis && to union in all these injuries is good. Firm bony union usually occurs within tw’enty-one days. Non-union, false joint, or fibrous union is but rarely met wuth. At the same time it is to be borne in mind that, in spite of all pre- cautions, some deformity and shortening may result, without, however, interfering with the u.sefulness of the limb. Treatment.—The displacement iii complete fractures of the clavicle is readily reduced by supporting the elbow, bracing back the shoulders, and levering out the tip of the affected shoulder. In a few cases the interposition of some fibres of the subclavius muscle between the fragments has prevented perfect reduction. In the greenstick variety the bone should be bent back into its normal position, even if the force recpaired is .sufficient to render the fracture a complete one. In spite of imperfect reduction, the clavicle usually straightens as it grows, and although some deformity may persist, the function of the limb is not interfered with. Treatment in the Recumbent Position.—There is little doubt that the most perfect aesthetic results are obtained by treating the patient in the recumbent position. In the case of girls, therefore, in whom it is desired that the shoulders should be perfectly symmetrical, the be.st method of treatment is to })lace the patient on a firm mattress, with a narrow, firm cushion between the shoulder-blades, so that the weight of the shoulder may carry the acromial fragment outwards and backwards. A pad is inserted in the axilla, the elbow is raised, and the arm fixed by the side on a pillow with sandbags. Massage is api)lied daily to hasten the disappearance of the effused blood. As this position must be maintained uninterruptedly for two or three weeks, it proves too irksome for most patients. When both clavicles are fractured, however, it is, short of operation, the only available method of treatment, and the patient must be carefully nursed to prevent him moving the arms. Satisfactory results are obtained by the method sugge.sted by Wharton Hood. The fracture having been reduced, three strips of strong adhesive plaster, each an inch and a half wide, are ap^died from a point immediately above the nipple to a point two inches below the angle of the scapula. The middle strap should cover the seat of fracture, and should