664 DISEASES OF JOINTS. tlierefore, we must be specially cautious in the use of those names which seem to indicate the cause of the disease. While these affections occur more commonly in families with rheumatic or gouty tendencies, and while they may be preceded by attacks of rheumatism or gout, it is by no means certain that they are of a rheumatic or gouty nature. The term malum senile—implying, as it does, an association with the changes resulting from advanc- ing years—is singularly inappropriate as applied to a disease which may be met with in childhood. Arbuthnot Lane’s suggestion that the lesions under consideration are the result of trauma, while ingenious and instructive, can scarcely be accepted as applicable to all cases. It is easier, however, to express negative opinions in regard to arthritis deformans than to formulate positive views that are of real value. Morbid Anatomy. — The articular cartilage at first presents a fibrillated appearance. Being of feeble vitality, it is gradually worn away as a result of the movements of the joint, until the subjacent bone is exposed. At the margins of the articular surfaces, where the synovial membrane and cartilage meet, there is an active proliferation of cartilage, resulting in nodular pro- jections—ecchondroses—which have been compared in appearance to the droppings from a candle. These tend to be con- verted into bone, and the ossification thus started may extend into the capsular ligament, thereby' adding to the articular margins a collar or “lip” of new bone, and also into other ligaments and into the insertions of tendons, giving rise to outgrowths of bone— osteoiiliytes or spurious exostoses (Fig. 247). The changes which take place within the articular area subsequent to the disajjpearance of the cartilage vary in different types of the disease. When rarefaction of bone is the predomi- nant feature, the enlarged medullary spaces are opened into by the wearing away of the surface layer, and the bone then presents an erroded, worm-eaten appearance. In course of time there Fio. 247.—Arthritis De- formans of Elbow, show- ing destruction of articu- lar surfaces and masses of new hone around the articular margins. (Anatomical Museum, Uni- versity of Edinburgh.)