GANGRENE. 100 Gangrene following Ligation of Arteries.—After the ligation of an artery in its continuity—for example, in the treatment of aneury.sm—the limb may for some days remain in a condition verging on gangrene, the distal parts being cold, devoid of sensation, and powerless. As the collateral circulation is established, the vitality of the tissues is gradually restored and these symptoms pass off. In some cases, however—and especially in the lower extremity—gangrene ensues and presents the same characters as that resulting from embolism. It tends to be of the dry type. The risk of gangrene is generally believed to be increased if the vein be occluded as well as the artery. In the light of some cases we have observed, in which both vessels were ligatured without gangrene supervening, we are inclined to believe that undue importance has been attached to this factor. Senile Gangrene.—Senile gangrene is the commonest example of local death produced by a gradual diminution in the quantity of arterial blood ]jassing through the parts, as a result of atheroma or other chronic disease of the vessels leading to diminu- tion of their calibre. It is the most typical example of the dry type of gangrene. As the term indicates, it occurs in old persons ; but the patient’s age is to be reckoned by the condition of his arteries rather than by the number of his years (Fig. 2.3). Thus the vessels of a com- paratively young man who has suffered from syphilis and been addicted to alcohol, are more liable to atheromatous degeneration leading to this form of gangrene than are those of a much older man who has lived a regular and abstemious life. This form of gangrene is much more common in men than in women. While it usually attacks only one foot, it is not uncommon for the other foot to be affected after an interval, and in some cases it is Inlateral from the outset. It must clearly be under- stood that any form of gangrene may occur in old persons, the term senile being here restricted to that variety which results from atheroma. Clinical Features.—The commonest seat of the disease is in Fig. 23.—Senile Gangrene in a man, set. 48, whose Arteries were extremely atheromatous.