FEVERS DUE TO PYOGENIC BACTERIA. 65 raucous canals—for example, on the cheek, as a salivary fistula; beside the angle of the eye, as a lachrymal fistula; near the ear, as a mastoid fistula; or close to the anus, as a fistula-in-ano. Intestinal fistulse are sometimes met with in the abdominal wall after strangulated hernia, operations for appendicitis, tuber- culous peritonitis, and other conditions. In the perineum they frequently complicate stricture of the urethra. Fistulm also occur between the bladder and vagina {vesico- vaginal fistula), or between the bladder and the rectum {recto- vesical fistula). The guiding principle in treating a fistula is to enable the discharge to pass more readily by the natural than by the abnormal route. When this is done, spontaneous closure of the fistulous opening tends to take place in most cases, but in others, plastic operations are necessary to effect a cure. Congenital fistulce, such as occur in the neck from imperfect closure of branchial clefts, or in the abdomen from unobliterated foetal ducts, such as the urachus or Meckel’s diverticulum, will be described in their proper places. Fevers due to the Action of Pyooenic Bacteria. We have here to consider certain fevers, Saprajinia, Septicaemia, and Pyaemia, which, although their clinical manifestations may vary, are all associated with the action of the same forms of bacteria. They may occur separately or in combination, or one may follow on another. Saprsemia, or septic intoxication, is the name applied to a form of septic poisoning resulting from the absorption into the blood of the toxic products of pyogenic bacteria. These products are of the nature of alkaloids. They act immediately on their entrance into the circulation, and produce effects in direct projiortion to the amount absorbed. As the poison is gradually eliminated from the body the symptoms abate, and if no more is introduced they disappear. Sapreemia in these respects, therefore, is com- parable to poisoning by any other form of alkaloid, such as strychnine or morphine. Clinical Features.—The symptoms of saprsemia seldom manifest themselves within twenty-four hours of an operation or injury, because it takes some time for the bacteria to produce a sufficient dose of their poisons. The onset of the condition is marked by a feeling of chilliness, sometimes amounting to a rigor, and a rise of the temperature to 102°, 103°, or 104° F., with slight morning VOL. I—5