'PETANUS. 1-23 must be diagnosed clinically from inflammatory lesions of the pharynx or of the alveoli of the jaws, and from afl'ections of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Tetanus Neonatorum is a form of tetanus occurring in infants of about a week old. Infection takes place through the umbilicus and manifests itself clinically by spasms of the muscles of mastication. It is almost invariably fatal within a few days. “//eat?” or Cephalic” Tetanus.—This is a peculiar variety of traumatic tetanus which follows injuries to the head. It is characterised by the occurrence, on the same side as the head injury, of more or less complete paralysis of the facial muscles supplied by the seventh nerve. This paralysis of the facial nerve flbres is believed to be due to a selective action of one of the tetanus toxins on the nerve centre in the medulla, as well as a local action on the peripheral nerve-endings. There is usually well-marked trismus, and other tetanic symptoms, varying in severity, ultimately supervene. In head tetanus the muscles of deglutition are often specially involved—hence the name tetanus hydrophobicus. Recovery is exceptional. Differential Diagnosis. — There is little difficulty, as a rule, in diagnosing a case of fulminating tetanus, but there are several conditions with which it may occasionally be confused. Strychnine poisoning.—Here the spasms come on immediately after the patient has taken a toxic dose of the drug; they are clonic in character, but the muscles are relaxed during the fits. If the dose is not lethal the spasms soon cease. In hydrophobia a history of having been bitten by a rabid animal is usually forthcoming; the spasms, which are clonic in character, affect chiefly the muscles of respiration and deglutition, and pass off entirely in the intervals between attacks. Cerehro-spincd men- ingitis and basal meningitis present certain superficial resem- blances to tetanus, but there is no trismus, and the spasms chiefly affect the muscles of the neck and back. Certain cases of hoemorrhage into the lateral ventricles of the brain also simulate tetanus, but an analysis of the symptoms -will prevent errors in diagnosis. Hysteria and catalepsy may assume characters resembling those of tetanus, but beyond the spasms there is nothing in common between these diseases. Lastly, in the tetany of children, or that following operations on the thyroid gland, the spasms are of a jerking character, affect chiefly the hands and fingers, and yield to medicinal treatment. Prophylaxis.—The prevention of tetanus depends on thorough purification of all wounds which have been liable to infection by