TUBERCULOUS DISEASES. 649 Reactive changes in the vicinity of tuberculous joints are of common occurrence, and play a considerable part in the produc- tion of what is known clinically as white swelling. New con- nective tissue forms in the peri-articular fat and between muscles and tendons. It may be tough and fibrous, or soft, vascular, and oedematous, and the peri-articular fat becomes swollen and gelatinous, constituting a layer of considerable thickness from which tubercle may be entirely absent. This is what was formerly known as gelatinous degeneration of the synovial membrane. It is sup[)Osed that the fat disappears and is replaced by a mucoid effusion between the filrrous bundles of connective tissue, and that these changes result from interference with the circula- tion and nutrition of the tissues concerned. In the case of the wrist the newly formed connective tissue may fix the tendons in their sheaths, seriously interfering with the movements of the fingers. In relation to the bones there may also be reactive changes, resulting in the formation of spicules or scales of new bone on the periosteal surfaces and at the attachment of the capsular and other ligaments. Terminations and Sequelce.—A natural process of cure may occur at any stage of the disease, the tuberculous tissue being replaced by healthy connective and scar tissue. Recovery is apt to be attended with impairment of movement due to the occurrence of limited adhesions, ankylo.si.s, or contraction of the peri-articular structures. Caseous foci in the interior of the bones may become encapsulated, and permanent cure thus be effected, or they may be the cause of a relapse of the disease at a later date. Interference with growth is comparatively common, and may involve only the epi})hysial junctions in the immediate vicinity of the joint affected, or all the bones of the limb. This is sometimes well seen in adults who have suffered from disease of the hip in childhood—the entire limb, including the foot, being shorter and smaller than the corres^jonding parts of the opposite side. Atrophic conditions are also met with, the bones undergoing fatty atrophy, so that in extreme cases they may be cut with a knife or may easily fracture. This is to be borne in mind in forcibly manipulating stiff joints. These atrophic conditions are recovered from if the limb is able to resume its functions. Relative Frequency in different Joints at difevent Ages.— Tuberculosis of the hip and spine are essentially diseases of childhood and youth, and rarely commence after the skeleton has attained maturity. Disease of the knee is very common in children, but may be met with at any period of life. The elbow