674 DISEASES OF JOINTS. a tuberculous or pyogenic focus in the bone close to a joint, which may cause vague neuralgic pains for long periods before rupturing into the articulation. The use of the Rontgen rays, or examination of the joint under chloroform, may assist in difficult cases. The greatest difficulty is met wdth in the knee and hip, where the condition may closely simulate tuberculous disease. The local treatment consists chiefly in improving the nutrition of the afi’ected limb by means of massage, exercises, baths, and electricity. Splints are to be avoided. In refractory cases considerable benefit may follow the application of Corrigan’s button or the actual cautery. The general condition of the patient must be treated on the same lines as in other neuroses. The Weir-Mitchell treatment may have to be employed in obstinate cases; the patient being secluded from her friends and placed in charge of a suitable nurse. Complete recovery is the rule, but when the muscles are weak and wasted from prolonged disuse, a considerable time may elapse before the limb returns to normal. Tumours and Cysts. Innocent tumours and sarcoma of the synovial menibrane are rarely recognised until explored by operation. Multiple cartilaginous bodies, growing from the synovial membrane, are sometimes met with in the knee-joint; we have observed cases, all of them in women, in which the knee-joint was distended with several hundred such bodies, entirely com- posed of hyaline cartilage, some of them still attached to the membrane, the majority of them loose. On palpating the joint, the sensation imparted to the fingers is like that of grains of rice in a bag. Cysts of joints constitute an ill-defined group which includes ganglia formed in relation to the capsular ligament. Cystic distension of bursae which communicate with the joint is most often met with in the region of the knee in cases of long- standing hydrops. It was suggested by Morrant Baker that similar cystic swellings may I’esult from the hernial j^rotrusion of the synovial membrane between the stretched fibres of the capsular ligament, and the name “ Baker’s cysts ” has been applied to these. In the majority of cases cysts in relation to joints give rise to