BACTERIAL VARIETIES OF GANGRENE. 107 should be freely used to remove badly bruised or torn tissue, and no attempt should be made to close the wound by stitches. Rather should it be kept open with drainage tubes or iodoform gauze or worsted inserted into its corners and crevices to ensure free drainage. As the organisms associated with this condi- tion are mostly anaerobic, the use of peroxide of hydrogen is indicated for cleansing the wound. Treatment. — For acute gangrene no treatment short of amputation is of any avail, and the sooner this is done the greater is the hope of saving the patient. The limb must be amputated well beyond the apparent limits of the gangre- nous area. Thorough antiseptic preparation of the region selected, and stringent precautions to avoid discharge from the already gangrenous area reaching the operation wound, are of the utmost importance. An assistant or nurse, who is to take no other part in the operation, is told ofl‘ to carry out this preliminary purification; to wrap the part to be removed in carbolised towels; and to hold the limb during the operation. When the disease has spread so high that amputation above it is impossible, the dead part may be removed, and the surface of the stump sprayed with peroxide of hydrogen and then sponged over with pure carbolic acid. Anti-streptococcic serum has appai’ently proved of service in a certain number of cases. The patient must be freely stimulated after the oijeration, and fed with nutritious fluid food. Malignant (Edema.—This form of acute spreading gangrene has been shown to be due to a si)eciflc organism, the bacillus of malicjnant oedema, which is found in garden soil, dung, and various putrefying animal substances. It is anaerobic, and occurs as long, thick rods with somewhat rounded ends and several laterally placed flagella. Spores, having a very high power of resistance, form in the centre of the rods, and bulge out the sides so as to give the organisms a spindle-shaped out- line. Other pathogenic organisms are often present and aid it in its action. Clinical Features.—The disease has been defined as “a spreading inflammatory oedema attended with eni])hysema, and ultimately followed by gangrene of the skin and subjacent parts.” At the bedside it is difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish it from acute infective gangrene. Both follow on the same kinds of injury and run an exceedingly rapid course. In malignant oedema, however, the incidence of the disease is mainly on the superficial }>arts, which become livid, indurated, oedematous, and emphysematous, and soon die. Bullae form on