168 SYPHILIS. acquired in certain countries is of a specially virulent type, but if the factors to which reference has just been made are elimi- nated, there remains no evidence to support such a belief. It would appear to be rather a question of the resistance of the individual than of the virulence of the infecting agent. These considerations have an important bearing on the treatment of the disease. Diagnosis of Secondary Sy2Mlis.—It should be made a routine practice when a patient presents manifestations which are possibly of a syphilitic nature, to make a systematic ex- amination of the parts of the body which are most often affected in this disease—the scalp, mouth, throat, posterior cervical glands, and the trunk, the patient being stripped, and examined in a good light. Among the diagnostic features of the skin affections the following may be mentioned :—They are frequently, and sometimes to a marked degree, symmetrical; several types of eruption—papules and pustules, for example—may be present at the same time ; there is little itching; they are at first a dull- red colour, but later present a brown pigmentation which has been likened to the colour of raw ham; they exhibit a pre- dilection for those parts of the forehead and neck which are close to the roots of the hair; they tend to pass off spontane- ously ; and they disappear raj>idly under the influence of mercury. Treatment of Secondary Syphilis.—There are two main objects in the treatment of syphilis : to maintain the general health at the highest possible standard, and to place the patient thoroughly under the influence of mercury. It is now uni- versally admitted that these objects are not incompatible with one another. The General Health.—The patient must lead a regular life and cultivate the fresh-air habit, which is as beneficial in syphilis as in tuberculosis. Anaemia, malaria, and other sources of debility must receive appropriate treatment. The diet should be simple and easily digested, and should include a full supply of milk. Alcohol is prohibited unless it is required as a food, in which case beer, claret, or stout may be allowed at meals. The excretory organs are encouraged to act by the liberal drinking of hot w'ater between meals, say five or six tumblerfuls in the twenty-four hours. The functions of the skin are further aided by frequent hot baths, and by the wearing of w'arm under- clothing. While the patient should avoid exposure to cold, or taxing his energies by undue exertion, he should be advised to take exercise in the open air. On account of the liability to