576 INJURIES' IN REGION OF ANKLE AND FOOT. displacement is hachoard, but this is very rare, as are also lateral dislocations, and dislocation by rotation, in which the astragalus is rotated in its socket. In all these injuries the head of the astragalus lo.ses its normal relationshiir with the malleoli. Treatment.—An attempt should be made to reduce the dis- location under anaesthesia, the limlj being placed in the same position as for reduction of dislocations of the ankle. While traction is made upon the foot, an assistant presses directly on the displaced bone and endeavours to manipulate it into position. In incomplete dislocations this usually succeeds, but it not in- frequently fails in those Avhich are complete, and in this case it may be necessary to chisel through the external malleolus to admit of reduction, or to excise the astragalus. In most cases of comi)ound dislocation also the bone should be removed. Sub - astragaloid Dislocation. — In this dislocation, which results from the same kinds of violence as the last, the astragalus retains its position in the tibio-fibular socket, and the os calcis and scaphoid, with the rest of the foot, are carried away froin it. The head of the astragalus, therefore, maintains its normal relationship with the malleoli—a point of importance iji the differential diagnosis between this injury and dislocation of the astragalus. The displacement is usually incomplete, and the foot may either pass backward and inward, or backward and outward. When the foot passes backward and inward, the head of the astragalus projects on the outer part of the donsum, resting on the cuboid. The dor.sum of the foot is shortened, the heel lengthened, the toes adducted, and the inner border of the foot raised. The external malleolus is unduly prominent, and reaches nearly to the sole. In the backward and outward varietjq the internal malleolus and head of the astragalus project unduly towards the inner side of the foot, which is abducted and everted. In neither variety is there any mechanical obstacle to move- ment at the ankle-joint. The treatment is carried out on the same lines as for disloca- tion of the astragalus, reduction being effected without difficulty in most cases. If this fails, as it occasionally does, it may be necessary to excise the astragalus. Medio-tarsal dislocation—that is, at the astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations—is extremely rare. The distal segment of the foot is usually displaced towards the sole; the foot is foreshortened, the malleoli raised from the sole, the arch of the foot is lost, and the first row of tarsal bones project on the dorsum. The treatment consists in reducing the displace-