CARBUNCLES. 359 Treatment.—The local treatment consists in relieving the })ain of the boil and in preventing the occurrence of others. The skin of the affected area should be sterilised as if for an operation. A blind boil should be covered with Unna’s mercury and carbolic plaster, or an ointment containing 20 per cent, oleate of mercury, and 5 per cent, carbolic acid should be rubbed into the skin over it. When boils tend to recur on the back of the neck this ointment should be rubbed into the skin every second night. In boils on the trunk and limbs, lysol or boracic baths are of great service ; the underclothing should be frequently changed, and that which is discarded should be disinfected. In a boil which is going on to suppuration the cjuestion of incision arises. As in other suppurative lesions, suffering is relieved by a timely iticision and evacuation of the pus. The core is then removed with the sharp si>oon, and the wound swabbed out with pure carbolic acid. On the other hand, warm carbolic fomentations may be applied until the boil bursts and the core se[)arates. The further treatment consists in the use of diluted boracic or resin ointment. Although constitutional treatment has no direct curative influence on boils, any imiiaired condition of health should be corrected. When there is sugar or albumen in the urine the conditions on which these dei)end must receive appropriate treatment. Carbuncle is a spreading inflammation of the deeper layers of the skin attended with suppuration and sloughing. It may be looked upon as an aggregation of boils, and is characterised by a densely hard base and a brownish-red discoloration of the skin. A carbuncle is usually about the size of a crown piece, but it may continue to enlarge until it attains the size of a dinner-plate. The patient is decidedly ill and feverish, and the pain may be so severe as to prevent sleep. As time goes on several points of suppuration ap2>ear, and when these burst there are formed a number of openings in the skin giving it a cribriform ajjpearance; these openings exude ^jus. The different o^renings ultimately fuse and a large adherent greyish-white slough is exposed. The sejraration of this slough is a tedious process, and the patient may become exhausted by ^^ain, discharge, and septic absoiqjtion. When the slough is finally thrown off, a large deej) ga^^ is left which takes a long time to heal. A large carbuncle is a grave disease, esjjecially in a weakly }:)erson, and in one suffering from diabetes or chronic alcoholism. In the majority of cases the 2>atient is laid aside for several months. It is most common