CLINICAL ASPECTS OF INFLAMMATION. 45 form of loss of appetite, diminished secretion of the alimentary juices, and weakening of the peristalsis of the bowel, leading to thirst, dry, furred tongue, and constipation. Diarrhcea is some- times present. The tirine is usually scanty, of high specific gravity, rich in nitrogenous substances, especially urea and uric acid, and in . calcium salts, while sodium chloride is deficient. Albumen and hyaline casts may be present in cases of severe inflanmiation with high temperature. Leucocytosis generally accompanies acute inflammation. Clinical Features of Inflammation complicating a Surgical Wound.—If in the course of a surgical operation bacterial infection of the wound has occurred, inflammatory reaction soon manifests itself. In from twenty-four to forty-eight hours after the operation the patient is conscious of a sensation of chilliness, or may even have a distinct rigor. At the same time he feels generally out of sorts, with impaired appetite, headache, and it may be looseness of the bowels. His temperature rises to 100° or 101° F., and the pulse quickens to 100 or 110. On exposing the wound it is found that the parts for some distance around are red, glazed, and oedematous. The dis- coloration and .swelling are most intense in the immediate vicinity of the wound, the edges of which are everted and moist. Any stitches which may have been introduced are tight, and the deep ones may be cutting into the tissues. There is heat, and a constant burning or throbbing j)ain, which is increased by pressure. On inserting a [)robe between the lips of the wound a quantity of dark serous or sanious fluid escapes, or the discharge may even already have become purulent. General Principles of Treatment in Inflammatory Con- ditions and in Inflamed Wounds.—The main object of treat- ment in these conditions is to help the tissues in the contest with the bacteria and their toxins. This is done in two ways —(1) by attacking the organisms and so removing the cause of the inflammation; and (2) by improving the condition of the tissues so as to increase their power of defending themselves. The bacteria may be attacked directly by means of strong antiseptic agents locally applied. In such conditions, for example, as acute lymphangitis, or diffuse inflammation of the subcutaneous tissue, where the skin is unbroken, carbolic acid, in virtue of its penetrating power, if applied on fomentations in the strength of 1 to 40, will act directly on the organisms, and so allay the inflammation.