315 DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC VESSELS. tubercle, and siiiu.se.s resulting from dactylitis. The infection spreads upwards along the superficial lymphatics, which become nodularly thickened, while at one or more points larger, peri- lymphangitic nodules, which tend to break tlown into abscesses and ulcers, may form. When the disease is widely distributed throughout the lymphatics, the limb may become swollen and hard—a condition illustrated by lupus elephantiasis. Treatment must be directed both to the original source of infection and to the diseased lymphatics. Syphilitic lymphangitis is best observed in the vessels of the dorsum of the] penis, where these may be felt as indurated cords in cases of primary syphilis. In addition to acting as channels for the conveyance of bacterial infection, lymphatic vessels freqtiently convey the cells of malignant tumours, and especially cancer, from the seat of the primary disease to the nearest lymphatic glands, and they may themselves become the seat of cancerous growth forming nodular cords (Fig. 86). This fact is of great importance in relation to the eradication of cancer by operative measures. Lymphangiectasis is a dilated or varicose condition of lymphatic vessels. It is sometimes met with as a congenital affection in the tongue and lips, and it may be acquired as the result of any condition which is attended with extensive obliteration or blocking of the main lymphatic trunks. The most important type of lymphangiectasis is that resulting from the presence of the filaria sangxdnis hominis in the vessels, and which is observed chiefly in the groin, spermatic cord, and scrotum. Filarial disease in the lymphatics of the groin appears as a soft, doughy swelling, varying in size from a walnut to a cocoa-nut; it may partly disappear on pressure and on lying down. There may be no other symptoms, or the patient may give a history of feverish attacks during which the swelling becomes painful and tender. These attacks may show a remarkable periodicity, and each may be followed by an increase in the size of the swelling. The swelling may extend along the inguinal canal into the abdomen, or down the spermatic cord into the scrotum. On dissection, the swelling is found to be made up of dilated, tortuous, and thickened lymphatic vessels in which the parent worm is sometimes found, and of greatly enlarged lymphatic glands which have become converted into a tough, spongy tissue, the spaces of which are filled with lymph. The fluid in the dilated vessels is either clear or turbid, in