23 INCISION OF IMS.—IRIDDESIS. rotnul wherever they are not too tightly stretched. When they thus bulge; though a transparent lens may be supposed to exist behind the iris, it may perhaps be safe to incise the tense iris-fibres somewhat obliquely ; but, in such a case, probably an iridectomy would be a better operation. It is probable, indeed, that mere incision for the formation of an artificial pupil, should be confined to those cataract-cases in which the extraction-operation lias been followed by inflammation and closed pupil, with stretching of the iris-fibres. If, in such a case, the Surgeon anticipate inflammation to follow the secondary operation, one simple cut with a broad needle may be rapidly made across the iris fibres. In such cases, too, the iris may be fearlessly incised ; there is no trans- parent lens or no lens to be wounded. The vitreous humour probably protrudes through the opening in the iris ; and, if no fresh inflammation be set up, a good pupil may be made, and may remain (Fig. 456). Just after the operation, Fig. 456.— Incision of Fig. -457.—Artificial Pupil Fig. 458.—Pupil after F ig. 459.—Iridectomy Iris. alter Iridectomy. lriddesis. for Glaucoma. when the pupil is first made, it will appear, of course, to be good, because the aqueous humour has escaped, and the protruding vitreous body then makes it appear very black and clear. Operation.—The eye being well steadied with wire speculum and forceps, or with the fingers, a broad needle, with a cutting edge not confined to the part near the point, is thrust through the cornea and then through the iris at one extremity of the intended incision, and, as it is withdrawn, it is made further to divide the iris-fibres to the other extremity of the aperture that is to be made. Iriddesis.—Before this operation was invented by Critchett, there was an operation for artificial pupil, which consisted in effecting a prolapse of the iris by the cornea, and thus it was hoped an anterior synechia would result; but, by tying the iris externally, it is secured, and cannot return, even partially, within the anterior chamber. Iriddesis makes a regular outlined pupil, of moderate size, largest towards the centre of the cornea (Fig. 458). In these diagrams the cornea is never represented : a central leucoma is supposed to exist in the present instance. The dotted circle shows the place of the pupil before displacement. The opera- tion does not cause bleeding into the anterior chamber, and its subsequent com- plications. The pupil may be larger or smaller, but not very large ; and, as it is made, so it remains definitely. Iriddesis has been much in vogue for cata- ract of that " congenital" form (lamellar and nuclear) in which some layers, or some parts of them, are definitely opaque, if centrally, with a clear marginal part of the lens. This is a stationary form of cataract, and if atropine show a sufficient margin of clear lens, generally behind the iris, we may make there an artificial pupil by displacement and ligature, and let the patient have the use of the natural lens, rather than substitute a glass. The Operation is done thus. The eye being exposed, and held with speculum and forceps, a broad needle is passed through the cornea at that part of the margin towards which it is desired to place the pupil. An assistant then places a little loop of very fine black silk over the opening on the wet surface of the conjunc- tiva, and leaves it there. To draw out as much of the iris as is required, either c 2