OPETRA LMIC SURGERY. 24 an ordinary silver iris-hook is used, or, if it be desired not to include the whole breadth of the iris to be prolapsed, and the pupillary margin is to be left free, a cannula-forceps is used to seize the iris midway between its greater and lesser circumferences. The part of the iris which is to be secured being now drawn out by the corneal aperture, the assistant, holding in each hand a forceps with broad ends, like those used for pulling out eyelashes, seizes the ends of the ligature, and, when desired by the Surgeon, tightens the loop and leaves it. This he does whilst depressing a little the ends of the two forceps, so as to tie the knot quite close to the cornea ; and he is careful not to pull the ligature more one way than the other, lest the iris be dragged on one side, or, being very delicate, and offering no perceptible resistance, it be very easily cut through. The ends of the loop are then cut off close to the cornea, the eye is closed, and both eyes are bandaged. If the knot have been sufiiciently tight- ened, the portion of iris so strangulated and the little hoop of silk will drop off in a day or two ; and the iris, meanwhile, has formed an adhesion within in front (anterior synechia). But by this method of proceeding the ultimate results are often very unsatis- factory : the iris is confined, and a low chronic recurrent iritis, etc., may be set up, which leads to far worse results than the state of things which the operation was intended to remedy. These artificial anterior synechias seem to be as per- nicious as are the common iritic posterior synechia?. We have recently seen many instances illustrative of this disagreeable truth. An excision of iris is a far safer though less attractive operation. If iriddesis be ever to be done, we prefer the proceeding with cannula-forceps, seizing the iris midway, and not the pupillary edge, as in this way much less confinement is caused ; and when but a slight displacement of the pupil will effect the purposes of good vision, iriddesis may yet be permissible. Excision : Iridectomy.—This operation is especially advisable when a con- siderable opacity of the cornea leaves only a very narrow marginal part clear : when iritis has caused occlusion of the pupil (Fig. 457), total posterior synechia or very considerable adhesions, which cannot be detached by the use of bella- donna, or by operation: when perforating ulcer or other cause has ended in complete or almost complete adhesion of the pupillary iris to the cornea. But in all the cases requiring artificial pupil operation, an excision of iris is in a very large majority the best. Operation.—An anassthetic is first given, and the eye is kept open and steadied in the usual manner with speculum and forceps. An opening into the anterior chamber, of at least one-eighth of the circumference, is made in the corneal margin with an extraction (Siehel's) knife. If now it should be necessary that the eye be held in order that the corneal wound may be exposed, the forceps to hold the eye is handed to an assistant; and the iris-forceps, closed and held in the left hand, is introduced into the anterior chamber. A sufficient quantity of the his is seized and drawn out; and, with the iris-scissors laid flat on the surface, it is snipped off close to the cornea. The operation, with extra pre- cautions at the time and subsequently, is described hi the next page (see " Iridectomy for Glaucoma "). An artificial pupil should not be very small, as it will more probably become closed by subsequent inflammation, or, if not closed, contracted till it is much too small for useful vision. The iris must be seized with forceps: a hook may tear through rotten or firmly adherent iris, or will draw out too little. No blood should be allowed to accumulate in the anterior chamber, if it can be prevented. No clot should certainly be left between the edges of the wound in the cornea. And, if the iris, close to the part where it has been cut off