'5 OPERATION FOB SQUINT. the conjunctiva ami subconjunctival tissues, and then, the jwint being always kept dog,; against the convex sclerotic, the handle is depressed, and the hook passed upw ards under the tendon of the muscle to be divided, and brought forwards up to its insertion. The points of the scissors are then carried along the sclerotic side of the hook, and opened a little, so that one blade passes with the hook under the tendon, and the other in front of it. This blade will pass beneath the conjunctiva without penetrating it, or if it be too closely adherent, the two blades of the scissors, closed, may, before dividing the tendon, be made to open a way in front of the insertion of the tendon. The tendon is then cut a. 6. c. d. e. Fig. 453.—a. Wire-Speculum, b. Toothed Forceps with Fine Points, c. Straight Scissors. d. Strabismus-Hook. e. Scissors for Dividing Optic Nerve in Extirpation ol the Eye. through ; the hook being at the same time everted a little to allow one blade of the scissors to pass between it and the sclerotic. The scissors' blades are opened as little as may be required, so as to prevent any unnecessary disturb- ance of the parts, or tearing open of the external opening. An inexperienced operator is liable to be misled by a want of knowledge of the feel of tbe scle- rotic, when it is reached as the hook is passed along beside the globe upon it; or by a fear of keeping close to the globe of the eye. There is no fear, espe- cially for an anatomist, of cutting into tbe sclerotic. The tendon, before it is lost in the sclerotic, lies for some, or all, the distance along the surface of this membrane ; so that, to insert a hook beneath it, the end of it must be brought to bear at a point inferior to and behind the insertion ; and then, being steadily pressed against the sclerotic with some little force, it must be carried upwards and backwards and then a little forwards. In these operations for the division of tendons we must also recollect how wide is the insertion, and at what distance from the margin of the cornea ; and in this they vary a little. The opening in the conjunctiva should be made no larger than will be enough. The conjunctiva, when the tenotomy is completed by this method, prevents the eye from being carried unrestrainedly in the opposite direction. The object is not merely to divide the tendon ; but, according to the degree of dis- tortion, the operator will separate, more or less, the tendon and muscle from its surroundings. In an extreme case, any minor tendinous insertions lying beneath the chief portion of the muscle concerned must be searched for and divided ; while, in trifling cases, these, or at any rate the areolar tissue in con-