IRIDECTOMY FOR GLAUCOMA. 25 still hang in either angle of the corneal wound, it must be returned with the tittle spatula made for this purpose, or with the end of the curette. Besides the operation for glaucoma, for artificial pupil, and for recurrent iritis with adhesions, in which iridectomy is called for, there are a great many other cases in which iridectomy is now usefully employed. In some of them, as, for f 1 i| j instance, in acute ulceration of the cornea and hypopyorrfsimple paracentesis >$j cornesB may be sufficient ; so that, if we doubt the necessity for iridectoniising, ys5s<'~ we can give it a trial meanwhile. If, after an iridectomy for glaucoma or J*^ recurrent iritis, the disease return, the operation may be repeated : the portion M of iris removed being opposite to that excised on the former occasion. An ^ J <rV iridectomy tn the first instaiice for total posterior synechia or for hypopyon, ^^^^ should be a large one, and upwards as in glaucoma cases. X Iridectomy for Glaucoma.—Although the common operation for artificial pupil, to which I have just referred, or for recurrent iritis, may be quite correctly called iridectomy, as it used to be before the cure of glaucoma was invented by Von Grafe, yet the operation and all about it is widely different from that for glaucoma, as may be seen briefly in the following comparison of the two iridectomies. Iridectomy to cure Glaucoma. Iridectomy for Artificial Pupil. There is no permanent opacity of cornea, The operation is done for permanent nor any obstruction of the pupil, leading to opacity of the cornea, or obstruction of the the operation. pupil, or both. The cornea and lens may be becoming Both cornea and lens clear, at least at altogether hazy at the time. some part; at this the operation is done. The globe is hard to the touch. The globe may be soft, or hard, or normal. The fundus would be well seen, but for There is opacity or obstruction preventing turbidity of the aqueous and vitreous examination with the ophthalmoscope, quite humours probably, or haziness of the cornea irrespective of any turbidity of the humours, and lens. or haziness of the other media. The operation is best done during inflam- The operation is only allowable when no mation. (When there is pain, &c.—iu the inflammation exists, acute cases.) Operation cannot be deferred. Operation may be put off without harm.. The excision is best made upwards, The excision should be made any way where it is covered by the upper lid. but upwards : where most convenient, at any exposed part. The piece of iris should be taken specially The piece of iris should be probably from the greater circumference. taken from the pupillary margin. The piece of iris excised should be large. It should be small, or smaller, at any rate, than that in iridectomy for glaucoma. The good result of the operation is im- The good result appears after a while, mediate. The pupil is never afterwards blocked up. Not unfrequently resultless by secondary iritis and occlusion of the pupil. We see, therefore, in the first place, that in glaucoma the portion of iris to be removed must be taken from its whole width, quite up to its greater circum- ference (Tig. 459), so that the preliminary opening made into the anterior chamber must be in the sclero-corneal junction, or in the margin of the sclerotic itself; not in the cornea, as it should be generally in the formation of artificial pupil by excision. For glaucoma, the piece of iris excised must be larger than is usual for an artificial pupil; and, that the gap made when the iris 13 removed may be hiddenvit should be beneath the upper lid, just where an operation for artificial pupil woidd be out of the question. The chief steps of the operation are the same as those described already for operation of artificial pupiL Eut, chloroform having been given, if desired, the wire-speculum and forceps being used, to keep open the lids and to steady the eye, an opening •^tending to one-fourth of the circumference must be made in the selerotieo-v