OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. [8 of the eye, there is nq fear that an incision will be made actually into the globe. After the operation no special treatment is required ; but, by using vrarm water to batbe the eye, great cleanliness is maintained; and, if the movements of the eyes cause any pain in the eye operated on, they may be tied up, and so kept at perfect rest for awhile. Removal of Foreiun Bodies external to the Eye.—A foreign body, such as a particle of dust or of coke, superficially sticking in the eye, is generally to be found embedded in the cornea. The cornea is the most prominent part of the eye; and if a foreign body should hit the sclerotic conjunctiva, it is probably somewhat obliquely, and so it may glance off at once and not remain there. It is probably soon dislodged from the sclerotic conjunctiva, as it is loose and easily moved, and is washed away in the tears. It is often very difficult to see the very small foreign bodies which lodge in or upon the cornea, especially if the iris be dark-coloured, as they are also generally. In order to detect the presence of a foreign body, the Surgeon must open widely the patient's eye in a good light and bid him look in various directions or on all sides, successively; when, if the iris be light-coloured, the foreign body is probably soon detected as a dark speck, and maybe removed forthwith. If the foreign body be light-coloured or transparent, its situation may be de- tected on the eye itself by viewing the convex mucous surface, in all its parts suc- cessively, with the light of the window reflected from it, and then, at this point in particular, the light is irregularly reflected as it is in case of a simple abra- sion, or loss of substance, when there is no foreign body. If it be not thus detected, the lower lid must be pulled down with a finger placed on the skin of the lid, and the patient desired to look very much upwards, so as to expose completely the palpebral and ocular conjunctival surface of the lower part of the eye. It is, however, more probable that, if the foreign body be under either eyelid, it is the upper one. In this case the Surgeon, standing before the patient, places the end of his forefinger sideways on the lid near its outer edge, without involving any folds of loose skin; and pressing a little on the eye, makes the lid slide down- wards, as far as possible, over the lower lid. The lid (not the lashes) is then seized firmly by the end of the thumb applied sideways; and the end of the forefinger is turned downwards, while the lid is held firmly by the thumb and finger. The lid is thus everted (Fig. 454). This is a better plan than using a probe, or a pen laid horizontally on the lid, and then pulling the lid by the lashes over the barrier so as to evert it. The fingers are always available, and the patient is not so much afraid of them as of any instru- ment. The little operation cannot, however, be done the first time it is attempted. The patient may move back his head just as the turn is to be completed (therefore the head of the patient must be steadied by being placed against the wall, or the back of his chair, or by the other hand beliind it); or the lid is not secured between the finger and thumb before the eversion is attempted ; or the lashes only and not the lid are held ; or one fears to press the forefinger sufficiently into the eye to effect the eversion. It is very much more difficult if the patient be fat, the eye deeply set, and the orbicularis strong, or the lid thickened Fig. 45J. Eversion of Upper Lid for Detection of Foreign liodies.