'7 PTERYGIUM. a triangular shape, of which one angle is at or approaches to the centre of the cornea, just as much as the vessels of a chronic ulcer of the cornea following phlyctenular ophthalmia, which follows one of the exanthemata, have a wide circumferential origin, and are definitely bounded on each side, ending as it were at one point or apex—the ulcer itself. So it is in what has been called " fascicular keratitis," though the vessels are not collected in a bundle in it, but converged. Pterygium is to be got rid of, because it will always steadily advance up to the centre of the cornea, and so, to some extent, interfere with vision; and very much too, if, as is not uncommon in these cases, more than one ptery- gium should form in the same eye, and, advancing from different directions in the circumference, meet in the centre, towards which the apex of the growtli is always directed; or if, as is not common, a pterygium should advance from below upwards. The growth is also to be removed, because it is a con- spicuous deformity, easily remediable, so that at least only an irregular whitish scar is left in its place. A pterygium should be removed in any stage of its growth. At first, it is but little redder than the surrounding conjunctiva, and hardly at all raised above the conjunctival surface. It has then been called a " membranous pterygium." Afterwards it becomes very much more vascular and raised above the surface—" fleshy pterygium." In either case an operation is called for. No other treatment is of any use. Pterygium has been removed by dissecting up the growtli from apex to base, transplanting the apex of the flap thus formed into an incision made along the lower part of the ocular conjunctiva beneath the lower lid, and fixing it with sutures in this position. I do not remember that in any of the cases in which I operated in this way the disease returned; but excision of the whole growth more effectually removes the deformity than merely transplanting it; and total abscission is the commonly adopted practice nowadays. Nevertheless, even when carefully removed, pterygium is apt to return; and hence it is import- ant in operating to remove the whole thickness of it, down to the sclerotic and cornea. Operation.—An incision is made with a scalpel through the conjunctiva, along the borders of the growth, whilst put on the stretch by the eye being drawn with forceps in the opposite direction, if necessary by an assistant ; and then with a pair of forceps, with rather long sharp teeth, the whole width of the pterygium is taken up, between the two lines of incision in the conjunc- tiva, at about the middle of its length, and raised sufficiently to allow the scalpel to be thrust beneath it with the edge towards the cornea. The growth being well raised from the surface of the globe, and the traction made in the direction opposite to the place of the pterygium being relaxed, the scalpel is carried onwards, close to the surface of the cornea, up to the centre or as far forwards as the growth extends. The whole is shaved off at once ; the flap is then seized and raised, and dissected off the surface of the sclerotic, and finally removed altogether as far back as it seems to extend at its base, near the junc- tion of the ocular and palpebral conjunctiva?. If any small portions of the pterygium have been left, they should be seized and shaved off the surface of the cornea or sclerotic. The growth should be removed quite up to its margins and to its apex, as far forwards on the cornea as it extends. It may everywhere be raised with forceps from the firm structures, cornea and sclerotic, beneath. If a fine shaving of sclerotic or cornea be taken off, it is not of the serious im- portance that has been suggested ; but of course it should not be done. All soft parts, where the pterygium is situated, should be dissected off the sclerotic and cornea; and if the knife be held flat to the surface of the globe