OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 42 forward and protrude in the midst of the lens-matter, the vitreous body pushes aside tho fragments of broken up lens against the iris and ciliary processes, and mechanically sets up inflammation, which, commonly ends badly. It is very difficult—if not impossible—to remove such fragments by the curette or the syringe, without injuring the vitreous body, which lies in the way ; it will, however, be better to lose some vitreous humour than to leave much lens- matter pressing upon the iris, &c, if such a mishap should occur, and the fragments can be removed. In the final stage, however, of "solution" or keratonyxis (as the needle-operation has been called), very little of the lens being left, the carefully preserved posterior lens-capsule has not unfrequently to be purposely torn open, and a rent, through which the vitreous body pro- trudes, to be made ; for small opaque fragments often remain upon this capsule, after most of the len3-matter has been removed little by little ; or delicate grey webs and streaks and puckerings appear in or upon it, visible, perhaps, only by use of the oblique illumination, and yet interfering very much with good vision. There are now no fragments of lens that can be displaced and excite inflammation. In old people, or even in adults, a needle-operation is a very tedious process. The lens-matter, though swollen, has irregular hard margins, and will very likely set up inflammation of the iris and ciliary processes, &c. A detached fragment of the hard senile cataract left after an extraction will be very likely to do the same; and elderly people, in any inflammation of the eye, are always more likely from their age to get a glaucomatous complication of the disease. But if a young adult have one useful eye, a cataract in the other may be got rid of by repeated use of the needle, doing each time very little with it; and the process, tedious as it is, is safe from the greater risks of extraction ; and the inconvenience of the delay, in such a case, will not be felt. If in this process of solution there should in any case appear to be increased tension (T. 1.) even though the pupil be fully dilated (atropine of course being used) and there be no ciliary redness, the swollen lens-matter must be at once evacuated, and perhaps an iridectomy upwards done at the same time. Suction-operation.—Fluid cataracts are sometimes, but not often, found ; the whole contents of the lens-capsule being evacuated into the anterior chamber when the capsule is torn open with a needle. They occur, perhaps, in young adults for whom we should use the needle. They look like soft cataracts ; and they can hardly or unfrequently be distinguished from ordi- nary soft cataracts, besides that from their rarity they are not expected. They appear of an uniform colour. Somewhat like them surgically are the cataracts of diabetic patients, though these latter are not fluid, only very soft; so that, after the needle has been used, although the patient be middle aged, the whole of the lens is mixed up in the aqueous humour, and can be, and indeed must be, removed forthwith. In this I am speaking of my recent experience, in which I have had a succession of cases of diabetic cataract, all alike, and all successfully treated by suction, at one operation, as described below. I do not say that all diabetic cataracts must be like those to which I refer : they were of a bluish milky colour, very large, apparently pressing forwards the jris, with some broad, convergent, indistinctly glistening strioe anteriorly, rather lighter in colour than the body of the lens itself. The syringe is also available in the cases of wounds of the lens in children or young adults, in .which, soon after the injury (or a first needle-operation), in a week or there- abouts, the whole lens is much swollen altogether, and in cases where, by a subsequent needle-operation, it has been completely broken up and has become uniformly swollen and diffluent. In the youngest patients, it is most