OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 3° Forms of Cataract.—Cataract is most common in old or elderly persons, and in them, it is of the kind called Hard Cataract. In younger persons, and especially in children, cataracts are comparatively soft. The Senile Cataracts are gem-rally striated ; the streaks being very evident in the commencement of the disease, and less seen as the whole lens becomes opaque: the lenses are generally a little amber-coloured, especially in the nucleus. The other cataracts are comparatively little or very indistinctly striated, and of a milky colour. Stria? in the lens are almost invariably found to radiate from an opaque central spot to the circum- ference (Fig. 461), or to project towards the centre from various points of the circumference of the lens (Fig. 460). In fact the stria), according to the direction of the lens-fibres, of which some only have become opaque, always diverge from or converge to the centre of the lens. In hard cataracts the cortical parts, as in the normal lens, are always comparatively soft, sometimes very soft, with a hard nucleus only; but these are cases of secondary degeneration, by which, even the nucleus may at last become dissolved. In rare cases, an indefinite central haze, without any pattern, indicates the beginning of cataract. But there are not un- frequent cases of haziness of the lens, as a senile change, or from intraocular pressure (see " Glaucoma "), which must not be called cataract, for it is some- times found together with good vision, and the haziness may disappear, or it may never go on to a complete or real opacity of the lens. It is not, in fact, the beginning of cataractous changes. This is an important distinction; and no doubtful case must be said to be one of cataract, unless, by examination with the ophthalmoscope, by the direct or oblique methods of illumination, strise or some certain opacities be seen in the lens, or such a degree of central haze in the same situation as to obscure the image of the fundus, when, by direct illumination of the ophthalmoscope, a bright light is thrown into the eye. If any less definite rule be adopted, it will lead to innumerable misunder- standings and false anticipations. When an eye, in which stria; exist in the lens, the rest of it remaining transparent, is examined by direct illumination, the pupil, of course, having been first of all dilated with atropine, the mirror of the ophthalmoscope only being required, the several streaks appear black, in front of the light behind them of the brightly lit-up fundus of the eye (Fig. 460); whereas, when a commencing cataract is examined with a side light, and the ophthalmoscope lens only used (oblique illumination), the stria) appear Fig. 460.—Commencing Cataract: Opaque Fig. 401.—Commencing Cataract: Opaque streaks converging from the margin : streaks diverging from the centre. The the darker stria) are in the anterior parts lens-nucleus is altogether obscured, of the lens. whitish against the dark pupil; for the light is reflected from the front surface of opaque parts of the still partly transparent lens (Fig. 461). Thus, by these two methods, we have, in doubtful cases, a means of checking our diagnosis. The cases of lutzy central commencing opacity of the lens, which are to he