TRAUMATIC AND CAPSULAR CATARACT. 3' called cataract, have been defined already. Of course, in case of a pattetnless non-striated opacity of the lens, far advanced, the whole lens so evenly opaque that no part of it allows an inspection of the fundus, there need be no question of the existence of cataract. That the opacity is not in the cornea, or in any part behind the lens, is found at once by observing the apparent change in the relative position of the parts, when, in a good light (oblique illumination), the observer moves his head from side to side, whilst the patient keeps his eyes fixed on some other object. That it is no opacity in the pupil, is known by the use of atropine, which must of course always be used beforehand for tbe diagnosis of cataract, in doubtful cases, and which will not regularly dilate the pupil if this be not free. Of course there may be obstructed pupil and cataract behind it; but then we cannot certainly make out the latter. Or, if there have been iritic effusion and adhesions now freed, there will be evidence of old iritis. Or, it' the opacity be in the vitreous space, it will be evidently so far behind the level of the pupil as to show its situation by oblique illumination. Besides the idiopathic, there may be, at any time of life, Traumatic Cataract. Any wound of the lens, unless it be a slight clean cut or puncture, and not very deep, is followed by opacity of the whole lens. The surgical treatment of senile or hard cataract, of soft cataract, and of traumatic cases, is very unlike in many respects. In the latter only is there urgent need of any operation being done. Wounds of the eye (and lens), as of other parts, when they have occurred, are generally found to have been in yoiuig persons, or at least not in old people. Hence traumatic cataracts generally resemble the more the soft cataracts, so called, in being soft and whitish. In older persons, when the opacity follows a wound of the lens, it will be found to have a hard nucleus, if it be not altogether hard. The wounded lens becomes opaque, swells up consider- ably, except the nucleus in old people, and in young people very rapidly, by the admission of the aqueous humour; and herein usually lies the urgency of the call for surgical interference. The swelling of the whole lens and the gaping wound of the lens-capsule, by wliich an irregular protrusion of swollen lens-matter takes place, if the lens be not wholly swollen, press upon and rub against the iris and ciliary processes in their movements, and set up iritis and deeper-seated inflammation, which will not, of course, subside until the exciting cause is removed. Those opacities of lens, also, which follow blows on the eye, or severer blows on the head (without any external wound of the eve)> by which the lens is dislocated (or partly separated from its natural connexions, so that it, and consequently the iris, are somewhat tremulous), must be included among the traumatic cataracts. It is in traumatic cases, accidental or surgical, and in these only, of cataract, that no delay is permitted if an operation be required : the curette, the suction-curette, or the spoon must be employed at once, and as much of the cataractous lens matter removed as can be without much interference. Cataracts affecting, for the most part, only the cortical fibres of the lens, have been called Capsular. Anterior Capsular Cataract shows of course the shape of the convex surface as it is seen in front and just behind the pupil. In Posterior Capsular Cataract, there commencing, the stria? appear concave and rather yellow, not white, because they are seen through the thickness of a lens which, by age, is yellowish, as are all old lenses, cataractous or not; and some of them, without being cataractous, have yet a slight haze in them, nevertheless not a commencement of cataract. Secondary cataracts, consequent upon some disease of the deeper parts of the eye, are seen commencing in the centre of the I Osteriot surface of the lens. Capsular cataracts are only commencing cataracts, where the opacity first appears in the cortical layers.