8 Papillary oedema indicates thromboses of the sinuses or of the cerebral veins. Dotted choroidal atrophy indicates an incomplete general atrophy of the brain. Atrophy of the optic nerve indicates sclerosis of the optic layers, and sometimes of the anterolateral columns of the spinal marrow. Cellular and granular exudations of the optic nerve indicate sclerosis of the nerve and its roots. Tubercles of the retina and choroid indicate tuberculosis of the meninges or general tuberculisation, &c. In fine, in most of the cases in which the functions of the cerebro- spinal system are disturbed, one may see something analogous in the eye.' _ . . . in pseudo-meningitis, in face ofmoreorless serious appearances of meningitis, embarrassing symptoms seeming to indicate the outset of this disease, one finds iu the fundus ocuh' a congestion of the optic nerve without choroidal colouration or distension of the retinal veins, i. e„ a lesion signifying cerebral and meningeal congestion without acute inflammation of the meninges ; in which case there would have been either peripapillary oedema or distension, varicosity, stasis, and thrombosis of the veins of the retina. The only difference between the true and false meningitis is a question of degree. In both, me- ningeal congestion is shown by papillary hyperaemia, but in true meningitis the ophthalmoscope shows a higher degree, the circula- tory difficulty of the brain is indicated by papillary oedema, phlebo- retinal stases and thromboses and retinal haemorrhages or tubercles of the choroid, the clots of the sinuses, the ventricular effusions, and the tubercles of the meninges. The progress of the accidents only enables us to distinguish the true from the false meningitis. The pseudo-meningitis does not terminate in convulsions and paralysis. The author distinguishes five or six varieties of this disease.—L'Union Mddicale, Nov. 11th, Dec. 4th—25th, 1S69. Uremic Amaurosis.—Dr. Argyll Robertson distinguishes this from the comparatively common cases of albuminuric retinitis by saying, " Where the dimness of sight is due to uraemia, the amaurosis occurs suddenly,-reaching its height in several hours—in some cases even in a few minutes. And the blindness is not unfrequently complete. Resolution occurs equally rapidly. In the other form the sight may also become pretty rapidly impaired at the commencement, but thereafter progresses more gradually, and after increasing for several days, remains stationary for a longer period. Very seldom does absolute blindness ensue. Resolution, too, whe» it does occur, proceeds-very slowly." The author points out that not unfrequently, "from the insidious progress of the disease," the special ophthal moscopic signs lead to detection of the serious general disorder.— Edinburgh Medical Journal, January, 1871, pp. 615—'23. Dr. Clifford Allbutt quotes an illustrative case. First of all the patient had had albuminuric retinitis, which had damaged his retina in certain districts only. Subsequently his sight became very