2 I ARTIFICIAL PUPIL. the blade never passes the pupillary margin ; its point is always in front of the iris, never of the lens (Fig. 455). As soon as the broadest part of the blade has entered the cornea, it is partly withdrawn, and, cutting downwards a little meanwhile, the point of the needle is again directed to the centre of the anterior chamber. As the opening is now n little larger than the blade, this can be rotated a little ; and, when it is held in this way, the aqueous humour or the contents of the aqueous chamber will (low out beside it, more or less slowly, acconling to the amount of the rotation. As it is almost all evacuated, the pressure of the two fingers, keeping open and steadying the eye, must be a little remitted ; probably no great effort at movement will be made by the patient at this time, but, to prevent possibility of accidents, the broad needle, still held flat forwards, should now be brought altogether somewhat forwards, ami may thus be used in some degree as a point d'appui. The operation done, the needle is quickly withdrawn, and, the fingers being removed, the eye closes. In this brief and simple operation, every precaution must be taken against wounding the lens and making a traumatic cataract. This accident may occur whether the eye be steadied by the finger or by speculum and forceps, either when the needle is introduced, or when the last of the aqueous humour is let out. The operation is attended with little or no pain, even if anaesthesia be not employed ; and, if the fingers and one instrument only (the broad needle) be used, the soft parts of the fingers give no pain, and the patient is but little alarmed. OPERATIONS ON THE IRIS. Artificial Pupil.—In this operation a piece of the iris is either removed altogether, excised (iridectomy) ; or, by simple incision, an opening is made in the iris-tissue. The term artificial pupil is also applied to any operation by which the natural pupil is displaced and altered in shape and position, as well as to those by which an addition is made to the natural pupil, or those by which an altogether new opening is made in the iris itself. There are many different directions in which an artificial pupil may be made : (1) central and downwards, or (2) down and inwards, or (3) down and outwards, or (4) inwards, or (5) outwards. The upper lid so much covers the upper part of the cornea and iris, that it is a forlorn hope only when the operation is done any way upwards, as a direct means of improving vision (see " Iridectomy for Glaucoma," p. 357). Artificial pupil, per se, is called for in many very different cases. L In Partial Opacity of the Cornea, with or without iris-adhesions, it is required to make a pupil opposite clear cornea. 2. In Total Posterior Synechia (exclusion of the pupil), it is needed to re-establish communication between the anterior and posterior chambers, &c. 3. In Closed Pupil (occlusion), it is required to make a pupil opposite clear (uncovered) fens, &c. 4. In Central Lamellar Cataract, this operation is performed to bring the pupil opposite clear (non-cataractous) lens. Next to cataract-operations, those on the iris essentially are those which the ophthalmic Surgeon is most frequently called upon to perform. They made nearly one-fifth of all the operations done in 1871 at the Royal London Ophthalmic Ho-pital in Moorfields, without reckoning any of the very numerous preliminary iridectomies in cataract extraction and other operations. If an operation for artificial pupil be thought of in a case in which the natural pupil is quite oblite- {Bted, or where, in any case, even with atropine, an ophthalmoscopic examination of the fundus cannot be had, the Surgeon must first carefully ascertain that tho C