ui'irriiAL.uic siiR<;i-:i;y. is Liebreich's. It lius a small, polished, slightly concave metal mirror, reflect- ing enough light, but less, of course, than a silvered glass mirror, which more- over is usually made larger. The silver plate has a rather small central aperture, which is well defined as compared with that bored through the thick- ness of the glass plate or scraped in its silvering. The mirror is framed and backed in thin brass, painted black. A short black handle is appended, and to one side of the frame is a clip, to hold behind the hole in the instrument one of various small lenses, which are supplied with the ophthalmoscope. This clip is hinged, so that the lens contained by it can be turned aside when it is not required to be used. The mirror is held, as in the figure, to the right eye, to examine the right eye of the patient, and vice versa, with the handle horizontal, the little finger extended for the patient to look at, which if he does, then the observer (unless also the eye that is being examined is squinting) has in view the optic nerve-entrance in the fundus of the eye. And this is the best starting point, although the rest of the deeper parts of the eye remain, to be examined. It is best to begin the use of the ophthalmoscope in the normal eye (the pupil dilated with atropine) of a young person of fair com- plexion. First, a reddish glare is seen, and this is lighter at the optic nerve- entrance. Then, in order to perceive the details of the fundus, the lens, held in the free hand of the observer, is brought before the eye that is examined at a distance of a few inches, and moved all ways in the line of the reflected light of the fundus, until the best image is obtained. This hand may be steadied against the forehead of the patient. This mode of ophthalmoscopic examina- tion is the " indirect," (inverted image). It is that usually employed. Some practice with the ophthalmoscope is necessary before proceeding to examine the deep-seated morbid appearances within the eye. The preliminary use of atropine should be dispensed with as soon as possible in learning the use of the ophthalmoscope, and always afterwards, when the diagnosis without it is not made incomplete. Or at least it may be employed in weak solution, for one eye only (that of which the patient is independent—the worst eye—the least useful), and the patient forewarned of its temporary effects. Waiting for the pupil to become dilated expends time, and if atropine be indiscriminately used the increasing mischief, in some cases of nerve- blindness, &c, will be often ascribed to it. And for ophthalmoscopic diagnosis, it is only absolutely recruired in some obscure cases of commencing cataract or of vitreous and other ojjacities in the fundus oculi, &c. With the ophthalmoscope, a lens or cataract dislocated by a blow into the vitreous chamber, and lying cpaietly at the bottom of that space, or gravitating perhaps to either side, may often be detected. Operation follows, of course, in this case the diagnosis afforded by the ophthalmoscope, which without it certainly would be impossible : an attempt at least must be made to remove the lens " couched" thus accidentally, in anticipation of the irritation and inflam- mation that it will set up. Dixon (Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, vol. I. pp. 280-5) reports a case in which he discovered by the use of the ophthalmoscope, in the ordinary way, a foreign body (a chip of metal) entangled in some remains of blood-clot hanging in the vitreous chamber. Thus aided, and having per- fectly satisfied himself of the exact position of the foreign body, he made an opening through the sclerotic at a point opposite to that at which it was sus- pended^ and succeeded in removing it with forceps. Also it is indispensable, previously, in desperate operations for evacuating the fluid of detached retina. Bader uses it, indeed, whilst he is actually operating. That is to say, he passes a long needle in through the sclerotic, &c, at a point opposite to the most prominent part of the detached retina, and, looking through the ophthal-