IO (>/'IITIIALMIG SURGER Y. Am*' it may quite safely be done in any case, even if onljt temporarily, required ; ! For, if it do no good afterwards} it does no barm, and the imperfection of the punctum seems jto^bo of no more serious importance^thanis that ol^the nupiL^ lory aperture after an iridectomy that was needed and then done. As the lower lid is of the two the most subject to ectropion, so also it seems that the lower punctum is the more frequently everted, obstructed, or obliterated. Gravity, is perhaps concerned in both. The Surgeon's attention is seldom called to the upper punctum ; if it be too small, altogether absent, or abnor- mally placed, perhaps he is not called on to discover the fact; but, on exami- nation, the4punctum is generally found to be in right position and patent, and yet insufficient to prevent lacrymation when the lower punctum,-to-which the tears-gravitate-, is not fit to receive them, or the canaliculus aruLnmsal duct ■ to convey them away.'. If the lower punctum be so much everted that for any length of time it is dried, it probably becomes^ narrowed, and would not carry aw ay the tears, even if the ectropion were remedied and the punctum again moistened. Operation.—The patient is seated in a chair, in a good light, with his head thrown back, a towel over it, and resting on the chest of the operator, who is standing behind liim. A finger or the thumb of«bb«3eJt hand is placed lightly on the lower and outer part of the skin of the lower lid, which is drawn, forcibly down and outwards, and fixed by pressure on the malar bone sufficient to over- come the force of the orbicularis. If the punctum be not everted, so that it may be fairly seen, it is,well exposed to view by slight traction with another 1 finger, on the skin of the inner part of the lower lid, drawing it downwards a little and fixing it in that position. If the skin of the lower lid be wet with tears or greasy with ointment, it should be first of all wiped dry ; or a comer of the towel may be required to be applied between the fingers and the eyelid. The knife employed is very narrow, and(about an-inoh in length altogether. It ends -in-a small probe,1 of-about.-a-line in length, with a slightly bulbous extremity, bent somewhat towards the cutting edge (Figi 452, b). It is held) with the probe-point turned down- wards and directed into the punctum; and, when the Surgeon is sure of its being in the right position, some little force may be employed, if necessary, for its passage through the punctum. If the punctum be quite obstructed or disguised, it is well to be as sure as possible that the knife is rightly directed ! if little pits be made in the soft skin or conjunctiva with the probe-end, it is so much the more difiicult afterwards to make [ sure of the real position of the punctunu fATminute depression, made oval by traction on the skin of the lid, will be;'detected in the right anatomical position of the punctum, eVeri if it be quite impervious to the tears. The right position may be judged of by relaxing for an instant the dragging force, and, if the lid be bathed in tears, it may be wiped dry, and a very, little quantity of the tears may be detected lying in the natural pit or oozing from it.< The probe-point being within the punctunu the ltnifg is mrned .half-round, so that the cutting ^edge is directed upwaT(is"'and^owards the nose, and the probe- en'd, winch is not in a line with the rest of the instrument,, is directed in that which, anatomically, is known to be the direction of the canaliculus. This is then slit up, as far as the probe end will let the knife go, towards the nose, or, at least, well into that part of the palpebral conjunctiva in which the tears yt h>—/, Fig. 452. —a. Bowman's Probe (No. 6) for Nasal Duct. 6. Weber's ■ Knife for Slitting