3 In the substance of the vitreous the author could never find tho cells spoken of by preceding obscrvors. On tho other hand, in the feet us as well as in adults, tbe whole inner surface of the hyaloid (as is easily shown by treating the vitreous prepared with the hya- loid uninjured, with carmine, fuchsine or osmic acid of half p. c.) is, as it were, thickly sown with roundish granulated cells (cellula) subhyaloidaV),to which the author ascribes great importance both for the first formation of the vitreous and for its nutrition and regeneration. In repeated chemical aualyses of the vitreous the author always found water, NaCl, sometimes also NH4CL, a certain albuminous body, which, to Millon's reagent — N05, and NH40, behaved like the white of a hen's egg, from which, however, it is distinguished by the low power of coagulation with heat, by alcohol, N05, and tannic acid, and in small quantity (in the fcetus always more abundantly than in adults) a fat extractible by ether, but never the mucin announced by Virchow and others.—Ifoleschott's Unters. z. Natur- lehre, X, 583—9. Dioptrics.—Dr. Dudgeon wishing to see distinctly in diving under water, has invented a biconcave air lens, or one made up of two sections of a hollow sphere of glass (two and a half inches diameter), the convexities towards each other, and their edges united by a water-tight metal rim. This is to replace the loss of the refractive power of the aqueous humour (" anterior lens "), and instead of its equivalent (+ 2) glass lens, which had to be adjusted to the eyes each time on going below the surface of the water. The air lens offers no obstruction to vision above water. It seemed to the author " the perfection of simplicity to compel the water which had taken away the vision to restore it by a new arrangement of itself . . . The media, which in the normal condition caused perfect vision, air and water, were again employed, but in an inverted manner." Dr. Dudgeon considers that the reason why authors differ so much as to the actual convexity of the anterior surface of the lens is that they have not observed that it is not the segment of a sphere, but that its external portion has a smaller radius of curvature than its centre (ll-5 and 14 mm.). The latter alone concerns us. Donders aud others have overestimated the increase of curvature of the anterior surface of the lens in accommodation for near objects. The eye, after extraction of the fcataractous) lens, is com- pared to a spherical water lens, composed of the united aqueous and vitreous humours, with identical densities.—Notes on the Dioptrics of Vision (pamphlet). Phcenophthalmotropia.—Under this designation Donders describes an apparatus, by means of which the movements of the eye, accord- ing to Listing's laws, may be represented. It consists essen- tially of a globe, which may be turned about within three rings around three axes standing perpendicularly on one another. By