NEEDLE-OPERATION FOR CATARACT. muscle being at the time tolerably passive, the. speculum is removed and the eye quietly closed. In the old semicircular flap-extraction operation, vitreous humour was, perhaps, more frequently lost than it is in Von Gride's operation ; but then, iu the latter operation, it is more likely to anticipate the evacuation of the lens. If the lens, as a whole, or the greater part of it, have fallen down into the vitreous chamber, the attempt is to be made to transfix it with a long needle or sharp hook, and remove it; but, lost to sight—and the ophthalmoscope cannot, in this stage of the proceedings, be employed—it can seldom be reached. Sometimes after a blow, a lens, perhaps already cataractous, becomes separated from its attachments, and, in its capsule, dislocated into the anterior chamber or the vitreous space. In the former situation especially it must be removed at once (because of the mechanical irritation and consequent inflammation of iris and ciliary processes to be anticipated), by a sufficiently large opening in the cornea, made with the point of a cataract-knife—care being taken meanwhile not to press the lens back again through the pupil: if this be avoided, it will in all probability readily enough escape when the incision is completed. I have seen a lens half-dislocated through the pupil, and held by the sphincter iridis. The iritis set up in this case was, of course, very acute. A. lens> dislocated into the vitreous space, if quite separated and fallen to the bottom of this space, would be probably visible with the ophthalmoscope even although it were transparent, and had not yet become cataractous. It must be brought forward into the anterior chamber and removed by use of a long needle or a sharp hook, introduced through the sclerotic or in any way most convenient to secure it, if it can be done ; but it is very difficult to do this, especially if the lens be still transparent. If the blow have burst the globe, the lens will be found in some cases beneath the conjunctiva, external to the globe. The rupture of the globe is probably in or just behind the ciliary region; and the lens is lying beyond it, further from the cornea. It is seen as a rounded semi-transparent prominence, probably under the upper lid and far back, and it is easily removed by opening the conjunctiva underneath which it is lying. Sometimes a lens or cataract is half-dislocated into the vitreous chamber, that is to say, it is held still partly by the suspensory ligament, as by a hinge, and, fixed here, it can move to and fro ; it also, of course, must be at once removed. Indeed, a lens, cataractous or not, dislocated, or half-dislocated in any direction, is to be removed—if it can be done; for the lens, if transparent, is not in position to be of use, and beside this, in all probability it must soon become opaque. Xeedle-Operation.—This is the method to be preferred for soft cataract at any age, so that we have only to determine which is a soft cataract. It is not often found but as " congenital" cataract, or in traumatic cases in young persons. Diabetic cataracts are soft. If a middle-aged or elderly person have soft cataract, it is as in infants and young persons bluish-white, rather uniform in colour ; it has no hard nucleus; and, especially, it is not at all amber- coloured. If, in any cataract case, a needle-operation be necessary, it should be done without much delay. The earlier in life, and the sooner after the com- mencement of the cataract, the more quickly it will be absorbed afterwards. Infants, unless at the time very young or sickly, should be operated on; or their eyes, when they begin to observe objects, get wandering oscillatory movements as a confirmed habit in after-life ; and infants particularly well bear the risks of swollen lenses. Though the lenses of young persons, and still more of chil- dren swell up much more, and more rapidly than do those of adults, or still more of old people, when their capsules are lacerated accidentally or by surgical operation, the iris and ciliary processes in them seem very little inclined to r> 2