SUCTION-OrEEATION FOE CATARACT. A3 probable that the natural process of absorption will suffice to effect the removal of the lens-matter without risk of inflammation. If it should be altogether very much swollen, even if there be no dangerous symptoms, it is well to hasten the cure by evacuating at least the major part of the soft cataract. Not unfre- quently the wound in the cornea, through which the lens was wounded, will be the most convenient way of reaching the lens ; and often, when a soft swollen lens-mass is pressing outwards the lips of the wound, the thin weak recent cicatrix retaining it may be easily traversed with the end of the suction-curette, and so it may be altogether removed without any cutting instrument. The opera- tion is a very admirable one, and, if practised carefully in the above-mentioned cases, it deserves more consideration than it has obtained. Diffluent lenses used to be evacuated by the curette ; a sufficiently large opening having been made with a broad needle, the curette was introduced into the anterior chamber, and a gush of the aqueous humour and lens-matter took place, and then, by various little movements to-and-fro, a little more of the lens-matter was made to flow along the groove of the instrument. Now, in such a case, by using the syringe, with the end like that of a curette, but made tubidar, keeping the point of it in the posterior aqueous chamber, and the orifice being forwards, we can, without any movements endangering the iris, suck out the whole of the diffluent lens-matter. The corneal opening is made with a broad needle, which should be made to enter also the lens and lacerate the capsule, if necessary. It should be large enough easily to admit the suction-curette ; and the point of this, when once intro- duced, should be brought into the centre of the pupillary area, and then carried back until it is in contact with the posterior lens-capsule. When there, the point should not be moved about, or it may draw in the iris, or afterwards the cornea, with the lens-matter, or bruise the iris. The patient being recumbent, and the point of the instrument kept well back in the posterior aq\ieous chamber, in the hollow of the posterior capsule, all the diffluent lens-matter will fall towards the orifice and be drawn in succession into the syringe. If, in a case of a swollen accidental or surgical traumatic cataract, the Surgeon cannot be sure that the lens-substance is completely dissolved in the aqueous humour, after a lapse of time amply sufficient according to the age of the patient (the older the patient, the slower is the cataract in becoming dissolved in the aqueous humour), it will be better to defer the use of the syringe until some evidence of irritation, red- ness in the ciliary region, &c, shows itself. In no case would it be necessary to wait more than a week or ten days ; but, if the lens-matter be imperfectly dis- solved, some fragments clog the small tube of the syringe, and then it is necessary to remove the instrument from the eye, and reverse the action so as to force out the fragment causing the obstruction in the tube of the syringe. Thi3 necessitates the introduction and reintroduction and various movements of the syringe, almost as much as used to be required with the old curette in the anterior chamber. The suction-curette is invaluable, especially for the total removal of the whole lens at once, without any previous needle-operation on an earlier day, by a very small opening in the cornea, in diabetic and other quite exceptional cases of cataract ; and next in those in which the preliminary operation (or an accidental wounding of the lens) has, after a little while, made it possible and desirable thus to remove the lens, or a great part of it, in a large number of cases ; for, with the suction-curette, the corneal opening need be only very small, and the parts concerned little disturbed. The great amount of swelling of the cataractous lens-substance, and the evenness of its bluish-white tint, are, together with the history of the case and the age of the patient considered, the best indications that can be obtained of the practicability of a suction-opera-