10 mends the "equilibrium test," making use of the physiological fact that a prism stronger than 1° or 2°, held with its base upwards or downwards before one eye, produces inconquerable diplopia, such as, in other words, few can by their superior or inferior rectus overcome. Then a dot on a piece of paper will appear as two, the one not only above the other, but to one side ; for no muscular effort can result in single vision, and so the eye passively deviates outwards. It is accurately measured and recorded, and the details more or less of the operative procedure (tenotomy of the external rectus) are by this to be accurately regulated, according to an empirical scale of Von Grafe's. The gymnastic treatment is given up.—Dublin Quarterly Journal, Aug. 1st, 1870, pp. 35-49. Myopia in the Army.—M. Giraud Teulon says, " Myopia is a cause of exemption in the French but not in the German army, in which it could be so much more often successfully pleaded as appertaining especially to the more studious nation." In the French army the number of exemptions on the ground of myopia does not exceed 4 or 5 per 1000 in the country districts, while in the town districts it is much larger. In the Paris Polytechnic School also, at one of the recent inspections for admission, myopia was found to be as high as 35 per cent. The wearing spectacles may well be set against the advantage of having soldiers who are well instructed, and able to find their way in an unknown country by means of the constellations." To obviate simulation of myopia in a recruit he would always adopt the ophthalmoscopic test. Medical examiners want instruction. Myopic soldiers should not be put to services calculated to aggra- vate the disease.—Med. Times and Gaz., Aug. 27th, 1870, p. 246. Blepharitis.—Mr. Carter very truly remarks that neglect on the part of the patient, and want of painstaking on the part of the surgeon, are the causes of its ill results. At the outset he uses a warm alkaline lotion—live grains of bicarbonate of soda to an ounce of water.—St. George's Hospital Reports, 1871, p. 351. Purulent Ophthalmia.—Mr. Power considers it probable that this ophthalmia, i. e. an ophthalmia with a purulent discharge, although it goes on to a rapidly fatal result, may be merely a catarrhal ophthalmia in a weak or cachectic subject.—Ibid., 1871, p. 322. Sympathetic Ophthalmia.—Mr. Power considers that this never occurs unless the injured eye is amaurotic, i. e., as he afterwards tells us, completely blind.—Ibid., p. 325. Cataract: Early Operating.—When both eyes are affected by cataract, and this is progressing equally and slowly, Mr. Carter would hasten the maturation of the cataract in one eye hy opening the capsule with a needle—a practice much followed, we believe, of late by Mr. Bader, of Guy's. The author would even do this, under certain extraordinary circumstances, if the non-cataractous eye were blind.—The Practitioner, March, 1871, pp. 165-6.