OPHTHALMIC SUB&EBY. 20 all events, altogether removedj for, if it should be succeeded by a dense leucoma, the latter is of no importance beyond the fact of the opacity of the cornea; whereas the former is somewhat equivalent to a foreign body also. But it will not probably be followed by a leucoma; the cornea will become and remain tolerably or quite clear when this superficial opacity is removed from its surface. A little olive oil is dropped upon the cornea, and the eye bandaged with belladonna lotion or fomentation, until the wound has healed and the epithelium is restored. Tapping the Cornea..-^This little operation often does much good, in cases generally only medically treated, locally and generally. When there is pus between the layers of the cornea (onyx) or in the anterior chamber (hypopyon), or mpainful ulcer of the cornea without suppuration, it often acts like a charm ; some of the aqueous humour and pus are evacuated, the pain disappears, and the chronic ulceration of the cornea begins to heal kindly. The operation should be adopted in a greater number of cases ; but it must be done properly without wounding the leus or iris, or doing anything but just to make a small clean puncture obliquely into the aqueous chamber and so letting the fluid contents leak away quietly, and not very rapidly. In onyx and hypopyon, the tapping, to be efficacious, may require to be repeated at short intervals ; and if it fail, as it will probably, if it do not from the first seem to have been beneficial, iridectomy must be done, and will probably succeed. Iridectomy is often performed at once in these diseases; but, in most of the less serious cases, with no increase of tension of the eye, the minor operation of tapping is all-sufficient. Operation.—A spring (stop) speculum to keep open the lids, and a fine-ended and two-toothed forceps to steady the eye and hold it down, may be and are generally employed (Fig. 453, a and 6). But, unless pressure on the globe would endanger the good result, they are unnecessary, and are liable to alarm the patient. In performing the operation, the upper lid should be raised, and the end of the forefinger of the left hand laid horizontally and rather flat upon the edge of the lid and on the globe above the cornea, taking care here, as in other eye-operations, not to touch the eye with the finger-nail. The lower lid is simi- ordinary broad needle, fiat forwards, held in the right hand, the puncture is made in the cornea near the margin, the point being soon directed obliquely downwards and across the anterior chamber, as if about to make a counter- puncture at one-third of the circumference. As the eye tends to roll upwards, the needle, when directed downwards, cannot wound the lens. In this way Fig. 45u. —Tapping the Cornea. larly depressed and held down with the middle finger of the same hand, on the eyeball below the cornea. The two fingers are separated as widely as necessary, and such pressure is exerted upon the globe backwards as will allow no opportunity of closing the lids and of the orbicularis regain- ing its power of action (Fig. 455). The front of the globe is now very prominent, and the eye is at least as much under control as if it were held with forceps. With an