'4 OPJITIIA LMIG SUBQEBY. Surgeon, if the right eye do not now seem to lie again turned in, uses his other hand, and excludes, without closing, tlie patient's right eye, to see, as the patient is always looking steadily in his face, if the other will now seem to correct itself; and so he proceeds, successively and alternately, to confirm his diagnosis. It is very improbable that, if there be some degree of convergent strabismus, even though not constant but recurrent, it will not be manifested when the patient is under the excitement of a formal examination, and is regarding a rather near object, the face of the Surgeon. If there be no squint, and the previous diagnosis were in error, whichever eye is shut out in the way described, the other will not move or change its position, for it continues to look at that at which it was desired to look. If we desire to estimate exactly the degree of strabismus, the patient is desired to look straight before him at any object. A little mark is then made on the skin near the edge of the lower lid of the wrongly directed eye, at a point vertically corresponding with the outer (or inner) edge of the circumference of the cornea. Then the other eye of the patient is closed with the hand ; and the patient, without turning his head, is desired still to regard the same object. The squinting eye is then righted ; and another mark, again corresponding to the same part of the margin of the cornea, is made on the lower lid. Then the distance between the two marks is measured, and the squint is said to be of so many lines. If, in a case of convergent squint, the interval be of as much as three or four lines, it is probably advisable that the tendons of both the internal rectus muscles should be divided at once, rather than that alone of the eye only ostensibly squinting. In the more common and less degrees of convergent squint, it is best at first in each case to divide only the internal rectus tendon of the eye habitually inverted, and to divide the other afterwards only if the first operation should prove to be insufficient. To determine which eye is to be operated on, close attention to the patient, for a short time, covering neither eye, will generally be enough; or both eyes of the patient may be repeatedly covered for a minute and uncovered with the hand of the Surgeon, so as better to observe which eye is habitually turned in. As to repeated divisions of the same internal rectus tendon, when the eye has persistently remained inverted, experience is rather unfavourable ; but if without it the defect be not remedied, it must be done, supposing, of course, that the opposite internal rectus tendon has been cut. Operation.—The operation for squint is thus done. A wire-speculum (Fig. 453 a) is inserted between the lids, which are thus widely opened. A small fold of the conjunctiva is then seized with toothed forceps with fine points (Fig. 453 b), just below and a little in front of the insertion of the rectus ten- don to be divided ; with straight and rather blunt-pointed scissors (Fig. 453 c), this little fold is cut through horizontally ; the forceps is then inserted, closed, rather deeply in the wound, and a fold of subconjiuictival tissue, fascia, &c, is pinched up close to the sclerotic, and divided with the scissors on its sclerotic side. Now, the forceps still holding that which was last taken up with it, the points of the scissors being still pressed against the sclerotic, and each time very little opened, a succession of little snips is made, the scissors being pushed "backwards to some little distance beyond the insertion of the rectus tendon and below the muscle. When none of the fascia in this tunnel-like opening re- mains uncut, when it offers no more resistance, the scissors are withdrawn, and, remembering the direction of the deep little opening just made, and observing that the eye has not changed its position, or, if it have moved, allowing so much for the change of position, the strabismus-hook (Fig. 453 d) is quickly inserted and carried directly backwards through the length of the opening in