33 OPERATION FOR CATARACT. the cataract may be operated on, if complete ami otherwise fit for operation : but it cannot be right to urge the operation which may well be deferred, and need not now be done. If the seeing eye show a commencing cataract, a patient will, not unfrequently, desire the removal of the complete cataract, so as to have prospectively the use of the then practically blind eye when the other fails him. If the seeing eye do not show any commencement of cataract in it, the history and examination of the case require more parti- cular attention in order to its diagnosis—that it be not traumatic, or, if it be, at least that vision, independently of the cataract, be good. Perhaps operation may be advisable. I have sometimes, for cosmetic reasons, extracted a cataract in a blind (amaurotic) but otherwise, externally, healthy-looking eye. Even with the densest or darkest coloured cataract the patient has, in an uncomplicated case, a good perception of light and field of vision. If there should be cataracts in both eyes equally advanced, both fit for extraction, I prefer to do one first and the other a few months afterwards ; but I would not refuse to extract both at once if good and special reasons were given for my doing so. I have known both eyes to be lost after a double extraction. The object of the operations for cataract is the removal of the opaque lens from the axis of vision. Subsequently to the operation, instead of the natural lens, an equivalent glass lens is placed before the eye—for near objects about 24, and for distant objects about 3^ inches focus. The points to be observed are, either the getting rid of the cataract very gradually by natural process of absorption, when, in young persons, the capsule being lacerated, and the lens wounded, by operation from time to time, this can be accomplished ; or, otherwise, the more rapid removal of the cataract, the opaque lens-matter, by laceration first, and then evacuating by as small an opening as possible in the cornea ; or, thirdly, by extraction of the whole at once by a sufficiently large opening. After the operation, we have merely, as a general idea, to let nothing, by any movements brought about directly or indirectly, hinder the healing of the external wound, or interrupt the complete rest and seclusion necessary for the recovery, without inflammation, of the various internal structures that have been disturbed. Before any cataract-operation, belladonna or atropine drops may be well used, although, if the aqueous humour be let out, the iris will contract at once. At any rate the application keeps the pupil dilated in the beginning of the operation, so that one can see well the cataract; it shows also that the pupil icill dilate, and how much it will dilate, and it inclines the pupil to dilatation during the operation and subsequently. I do not think that the iris is ever brought any more in the way of the cutting edge of the instrument used in opening the cornea, by its expansion, as is asserted. In any operation for cataract, care must be taken not to urge the vitreous humour to escape, nor inadvertently to rupture the posterior lens-capsule, nor to bruise the iris or cornea ; and not to leave any lens-matter or clot of blood, not only in the former situation of the lens, if, without much interference, they can be thence removed, but .also in the lips of the corneal opening, where they will interfere with the healing process. Formerly, when the only method of extraction of senile cataract was by a flap involving a section of one half the circumference of the cornea, very many precautionary rules were to be enforced that are now of little or no importance. Then cataracts were only extracted in the spring time—the time we now only consider to be best. Then, if a patient were intractable, the prognosis was very unfavourable, if the operation were done at all. Now, the administration of chloroform during the operation, and perhaps of chloral subsequently, have