ophthalmic sum:ei:v. 28 which most of our internal surgical operations are commenced. It* a prolapse is to be returned, it must be done very soon after it has occurred, or the iris will probably have become adherent to the margin of the external opening, forming what is called synechia anterior, or, compressed between the edges of the wound, the iris will have at least become strangulated. In iridectomy operations, how- ever, it is an advantage that a prolapse of the iris following the current of the aqueous humour should take place ; for then we need not introduce to the anterior chamber the forceps by which it is to be drawn out. In other cases, prolapse of the iris is caused by pressure of the aqueous or vitreous humour behind it, and is not brought about in any sudden or impulsive manner ; it is then discovered as a little bag of a dark colour—whatever may be the natural colour of the iris. If, being recent, we hope to return the pro- lapsed iris intact, Calabar bean and a strong light may be tried ; and the return may be aided, if the prolapsed iris be distended by the aqueous humour, by gently pressing it back with the end of a spatula, by puncturing the most pro- minent part with a needle and relieving the distension, or by closing the lids and making some pressure upon them and rubbing them gently with the finger. The iris bulging may be already adherent to the margin of the external opening aud cannot be returned ; yet it may increase by the opening becoming larger or by an increase of pressure from behind, and this we must guard against by artificially contracting or dilating the pupil, as the case may be, by con- tinued pressure of a pad of wool and a bandage, or, if the prominence be much, by puncturing it, or, supposing it to have become firmly adherent, by snipping it off with a pair of small scissors. In the old operation of extraction of cataract by a semicircular flap, the iris, which is to be left intact, often prolapses, and this is one of the chief difficulties of this operation. It occurs either at th e time of the operation, the vitreous humour, after the lens is gone, causing it to bulge forwards between the lips of the wound ; or the iris is found, after some days, to be involved in the weak and slowly pro- gressing cicatrisation of the same. In the former case it should be smoothly and gently pressed back into its place with the flat side of the spatula held hori- zontally, and then, all pressure being taken off the globe, the lids are to be closed and so the lips of the wound kept together. When the prolapse is discovered some days after the operation has been done, of course it cannot be returned ; pressure may then be employed, or, if the prolapse be considerable, it may be punctured or incised, or, better still, the prominence, if sufficient, be cut off. Synechia : Corelysis.—Anterior Synechia:, or adhesion of the iris to the cornea, only takes place when the two have been brought together for a time by evacuation of the aqueous humour, generally by perforating ulcers of the cornea (see Prolapse above, and Iriddesis, p. 355.) Posterior Synechia, or adhesion of the iris to the lens, which is very much more common, results from iritis ; and these adhesions, once formed, are seldom detached, as in any case they should be if only it be in any way possible : for, if not, an iritis can hardly be said to be cured. Posterior synechia? may be numerous, or the whole round of the pupillary margin may be bound down to the lens—total posterior synechia or exclusion of the pupil: if tins be so, no communication exists between the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, the circle of the iris projects forwards around the central depression in which is the adherent pupil, and presents a very characteristic appearance by oblique illumination. It is important also, for it is an urgent call for an immediate operation : the commuincation between the two aqueous chambers must be re-established by an iridectomy. If posterior synechias be few, or even irumerous, the iritic inflammation having subsided, a certain amount of permanent injury, a source of irritation, and a liability to