32 OPHTHALMIC SVBGEEY. General Rem auks on Operation. — If cataract begin as a stellate cen- tral patch in the lens (Fig. 461), of course vision is at once much interfered with, and is probably benefited by the use of atropine from time to time ; whereas, in both these respects the reverse is true, if the striae project only towards the centre from the circumference of the lens (Fig. 460). In any case, even the most complete, of cataract, it must be remembered that, though the fundus of the eye cannot be seen by the Surgeon, the patient can always, if the case be uncomplicated, see a bright light very well, the other eye being covered, and can at once equally tell the absence of it when the hand is before it. The " held of vision," also, within which the patient can see the light, is not reduced in size. The patient has not the hopeless look of blindness of an amaurotic patient; he seems to look for the light and to enjoy even such vision, of light only, as he has left to him. So it is also in any case of non- nervous blindness, in leucoma, &c. Also, in the diagnosis of a case of cataract to be operated on, one expects to find a pupil ready to dilate well or to contract, a good-sized anterior chamber,—in fact, an apparently healthy eye but for the cataract; no increase or decrease of tension of the globe ; no history of former pain, and so on. Arcus senilis is no reasonable objection to operation. Cataract, unless it be traumatic, in which case the history is our guide, and the lens becomes cloudy in a few hours or days, is, of course, comparatively of slow formation, very slow indeed in the senile forms ; but blindness or partial blindness iu one eye from cataract, or indeed from any other cause, without pain or redness, is not unfrequently discovered suddenly and by chance, by the patient accidentally closing the other eye, with which he has been seeing, so that the history given us may require a complete mental refutation, lest we be led to fear any unfavourable complication not existing in the case. An incompletely opaque lens must not be operated on for its extraction if the operation can be deferred or avoided i but it cannot be in some cases of so- called congenital cataract, in which the lens opacity is central and so large as to need the loss of the whole lens (see, on the other hand, Iriddesis), or hi cases in which very slowly progressing senile cataract has produced so con- siderable a cetitral opacity in the lens of both eyes of a patient, as, without rendering the lens of either completely cataractous, to have made the patient practically blind. Then either one may use the needle once or twice before- hand, and, the whole lens having consequently become opaque, it may be regularly extracted ; or the risk and danger of extracting immature cataracts must be borne. (I have had no practical experience of the extraction of cata- ract in its capsule.) For portions of transparent cortical lens-matter are sticky, and adhere to the portions of lens-capsule remaining in the eye after an extrac- tion-operation, and to other parts ; besides, if they were not thus difficult to remove, and did not require much interference for their removal, they are trans- parent at the time, and so cannot be seen to be removed. The preliminary needle-operations are not very satisfactory in practice : for the central, very slowly progressing cataracts, equal in each eye, of old people, needle-operations are in themselves rather dangerous (see p. 374), and they take much time whilst one is striving to hasten the end ; for two needle-operations or a following extraction-operation cannot be done at short intervals safely, and a senile cataract very slowly becomes opaque, even when the capsule is opened, and an iritis is never improbable. The congenital forms occur in younger, perhaps very young patients ; and, very often, a needle-operation having been done in order to the maturation for extraction of one of these cataracts, it will be found better to complete the operation by repeated use of the needle only. If one ejre be cataractous, the other still retaining more or less useful vision,