6 OPHTHALMIC SURUKIlY. the granular conjunctiva, and, secondly, of the superinduced trichiasis. It is, perhaps, because granular conjunctiva chiefly affects the upper lid, that trichiasis most often occurs in it, and so, of course, pannus appears first at the upper part of the cornea. As to the so-called Distichiasis, the disease has no real existence; there are no cases in which two rows of lashes exist separately. Cases of trichiasis vary so much, and the modes of operating are necessarily so various, that only a few of the operations can be here detailed, and a few practical facts noted. The practice of pulling out the ingrowing eyelashes is worse than useless; because they only grow again, the hair-bulbs being left. The case is therefore only temporarily relieved, and, in the end, vascular nebula of the cornea and consequent blindness are produced by the constant mechanical irritation of the inverted eyelashes. Lashes should only be pulled out as a temporary expedient. Patients sometimes come to the hospitals, almost blind, who have been taught by Surgeons to practise the pulling out of their ingrowing lashes; they have done it for years, they have their own tweezers and looking-glass for the purpose, they are relieved each time temporarily, but, far from being cured, are always by little and little becoming worse. Again, they not unfrequently break off the lash, and then the broken end causes more irritation and pain than the whole lash had done before. An eyelash, when it is to be pulled out, should be properly seized, near the skin, with broad and rough-ended forceps, and very steadily drawn in the direction in which it grows. But a patient will twitch it out quickly with his tweezers at right angles to the direction of the growth of the lash, and so it is very liable to be broken off. If only one or two lashes grow in they may be pulled out, once or twice, in the hope they will not grow again nor again be so misdirected. But if many lashes grow in, or if a few only be always growing in, they must either be excised with their hair-bulbs, or an attempt must be made, by producing cicatrisation, to give a right direction to their future growth. The latter operation, being m'ore tedious and. less certain in its results, is not worth performing, except on young persons or those to whom personal appearance is important. When the hair and hair-bulbs are extirpated, the whole row of lashes of each lid operated on should generally be removed, though some only here and there be inverted, unless those which are turned in be all at one part of the margin of the lid. In such a case, a small round piece of the skin and all the structures down to the cartilage may be excised, close to the edge of the lid, so as to expose the roots of the inverted lashes, and the lashes drawn outwards with many fine sutures, inserted wherever they seem to be most required; after which the scar may effectually evert the ingrown lashes. If the whole row of lashes, or, perhaps, even if some all along the edge of the lid, be growing in, a similar operation to that last described, but extending the whole length of the margin of the lid, may be clone. If this should fail, the lashes may afterwards be wholly extirpated. The excision of a part of the row of hair-bulbs is very often unsatisfactory, because the subsequent cicatrisa- tion at the extremities of the wound will often drawn in and invert sonic of the nearest lashes of those rightly directed. Excision of Hair-bulbs is thus done. A forceps (compressoruuu), having for its lower blade a slightly curved plate of metal, has this blade placed under the lid, between it and the globe. The other blade, the skin of the lid being drawn away from its margin, is then brought down upon the outer surface, and is screwed down, so as to steady the eyelid between the two blades and hold it just firmly enough to control the bleeding, which in any operation