1 REPORT ON OPHTHALMOLOGY. By J. F. Stbeatfeild, F.R.C.S. On the Colour oftheEyesoftheJVeivly lorn.—Dr. Alfred "Wiltshire had observed that it is blue, or, rather, " slaty," and this, without ex- ception, even in different races of men. (So it is also in the lower animals.) The "foetal" blue begins to change usually in six or eight weeks after birth. If the eyes (irides) are destined to become "dark," i.e. hazel-brown or black, a brownish hue overspreads the leaden blue, and in the course of a few months effaces it. Eyes that ultimately become brightly blue, whether the shade be bight or dark, gradually clear up, as it were, like the sky after a thunder- storm. The author concludes by referring to the importance of the above observations in a medico-legal point of view.—Lancet, Feb. 11th, 1871, p. 188. Dr. "WilHam Ogle, on this, points out that this remark was made specially of the human eye by Aristotle.—Ibid., March 4th, 1871, p. 323. Dr. J. H. "Waters attributes their coloration to the influence of light. " We know their colour is derived from its action, for the eyes and hair of the newly born are without any decided colour for days after their birth." (Certainly not always: the last infant we have seen just after birth had an abundance of bright-coloured, dark-lrown hair and grey eyes, and now, after six months, the hair and eyes are just the same.)— Ibid., April 22nd, 1871, p. 534. Colour of the Eyes of the lest Courier Pigeons. — Mr. R. "W. Alldridge, at a meeting of the "West Kent Natural History Society, remarked on this subject that "pearl" eyes are preferred, but that one of the most celebrated birds now in Belgium has black or bull eyes. This bird has beaten all its competitors in travelling in foggy or very heavy weather, and has reached its home late of an evening, when the other birds have lodged for the night. He continues:—" The woodcock, snipe, and all night-flying birds possess black eyes. The wild duck has a piercing black eye, and not only flies at night, but sees well under water. The swallow, so active at the close of the