7 by the state of the circulation aa seen in the retina;—the hypenemic to be treated with bromide of potassium and depletion—and the anaemic with quinine, iron, and strychnia. In the latter class, the brain being anaemic during sleep, becomes a predisposing cause of the fits. In the congestive form they would be more likely to take place during the day.—Lancet, March 11th, 1871, p. 356. The Ophthalmoscope in Cerebral Disease.—Dr. Hughlings Jackson would have the instrument always used in cases of doubtful nature, perhaps the so-called " bilious fever," headache, vomiting, &c.; and if there is no renal disease, and the neuritis is double, it is strong evidence of some kind of coarse disease of the brain. There may be neuritic changes, although the patient can read the smallest type. The establishment of this and similar facts will enable physicians to foretell probable failure of vision in some cases.—Medical Times and Gazette, June 3rd, 187.1, p. 627. Congestion Papilla.—Mr. Swanzy reports a case of this kind in ■which he diagnosed, and there was found, after death, a tumour of the brain. The patient had constant headache, frequent vomiting, great drowsiness, and loss of memory. The pupils were dilated widely. One eye had slight perception only of light. He was ill four months. The tumefaction of the optic disc was very prominent, but did not extend far into the surrounding retina. The retinal veins were very much engorged and tortuous, disappearing where they turned round the edge of the tumid part. The extreme prominence of the papilla is depicted in a woodcut showing the eye, in two parts, cut open. The ophthalmoscopic appearances are given as a chromo- lithographic illustration. The author concludes by contrasting this state with that in neuritis descendens; the pathological changes in congestion papilla ceasing at the lamina cribrosa.—Dublin Quarterly Journal, February 1st, 1871, pp. 226—7. Meningitis and Pseudo-Meningitis.—M. Bouchut characterises the latter as a morbid state of functional disturbance of the brain and meninges; as an acute febrile temporary state of disease, shown by fever, irregularity of pulse, vomitings, constipation, and pains in the head, brought on by reflex congestion of the membranes. It is par- ticularly an infantile complaint. Not so only. The author goes on to say that by cerebroscopy one may discover in the eye unmistakable evidence of meningeal congestion. He refers to his former researches in this respect with the ophthalmoscope, from which he would deduce the following conclusions: Congestion t5f the papilla indicates congestion of the meninges and of the brain. Hyperemia of the retinal veins, distended and filled by stasis or by clots, indicates repletion of the sinuses and thromboses of the meningeal veins. Retina! haemorrhages indicate venous compression. Aneurisms of the retinal arteries indicate a similar lesion of the smaller cerebral arteries.