NEEDLE-OPERATION FOB CATARACT. upon the lens, in infancy, still it seems that nothing is to he feared. In no juvenile cataract will it ever he necessary to make a large Opening and remove the lens as a whole. If the lens, wounded either accidentally, or by the surgical operation, swell much, or, whatever swelling occurs, should there he any symptoms of inflam- mation of the iris and ciliary processes, more at least than a very slight red- ness in the ciliary region and no marked tension, which, may he disregarded, (and this is more likely the older the patient may he,) the process of absorp- tion is arrested ; the lens-matter, or some of it, must for hoth reasons he removed at once hy use of the broad needle and suction-curette, and if among the diffluent lens-matter and aqueous humour be found a solid nuclear portion of the lens remaining, the corneal opening should be enlarged with a knife for its removal with a scoop, if without one it will not escape. Of course, unless it follow an accidental wound, the lens should not be so much exposed by so extensive a laceration of its capsule as to admit of so much swelling that in- flammation follows ; but this cannot always be calculated beforehand. In first operating in any case on an eye by the needle-operation, unless, perhaps, in infants and very young children, it is well not to make more than a small opening in the lens-capsule, for fear of this mechanical irritation and after in- flammation ; also, I would not extensively at first break up the lens within this opening, or the consequent swelling may open out the whole lens, though the opening made in the capsule, by the needle, was not large. Within a week, even in the older patients, in any case, I think, the greatest amount of swelling consequent on needle-operation will be reached. After that, so long as the bulging lens-matter shows in the wound it may be left—the pupil being merely kept dilated constantly with atropine drops or belladonna lotion, whilst absorption is going on. In a few weeks, more or less, the lens-matter, which was bulging, no longer protrudes ; the surface is perhaps rather flattened, and the situation of the opening made in the lens-capsule is somewhat excavated. The needle then should be used again ; and at the second or at least the third time of using it, after sufficient intervals, there is no fear of the remaining lens-matter swelling enough to bring about any inflammation, and it is much more unlikely now that a fragment of lens should be detached and so set up inflammation. Hence the needle may be used in the latter operations more and more freely each time. And the needle must be employed whenever the bidging out lens-matter no longer protrudes, and the wound in the lens-capsule seems to be a little excavated ; for, if the repetition be long deferred, the lens-capsule in front may become so tough that it can never be thoroughly broken up, and it will be drawn in at the edges of the sxirgical wound, enclosmg some portions of white opaque lens-matter which, if not in the centre so as to obstruct vision, will show when the pupil is large, and are a defect, in appearance, in the good result to be expected from timely interference. If the capsule be toughened, the lens will perhaps move about on the end of the needle as it is moved about, and the lens-capsule is no more torn open. A second needle must then be introduced from the opposite side of the cornea, and then with it the lens may be held and steadied while the needle in the other hand tears open in various directions the capsule, and breaks up the lens-substance freely ; or, if it be very tough, the two needles, introduced from each side of the cornea, and meeting at the same aperture in the lens-capsule, may have their points separated, so as to make a large rent in it. The posterior capsule is throughout to be carefully preserved from any accidental wound. If it should be wounded, whilst the lens is still bulky and softened, and it let the vitreous body come