i6 OPUTJIALMIC SUliOEliY. nection with tlie tendon, should be undisturbed. It is not adyisable. however, in extreme cases, that the operation should be made to resemble the old stjuint- operation, by dividing the conjunctiva over the insertion of the tendon. If this be done in internal strabismus, it leads to retraction of the caruncle and the plica semilunaris, and a staring look of the eye, although it be made to act in a parallel direction with the other. To obviate the difficulty of an exten- sive accidental rent of the conjunctiva during the operation, especially if it seem to be thin and liable to be torn open, the forceps, instead of a second time being made to grasp the parts to be divided, may at first be made to seize the subconjunctival tissues together with the conjunctiva in a fold in a radiat- ing direction from the centre of the cornea, and the conjunctival opening made far back from the margin of the cornea ; the scissors also should be less blunt- pointed than those figured, and by pressing their separated points towards the eyeball firmly before closing them, to make the division, the operation may be completed without using the forceps in the wound at all. In extreme cases, the corresponding tendon of the opposite eye certainly should be divided. The test of complete tenotomy in these cases is that, when the hook has been passed so that if any fibres were uncut they would be caught in it, the concavity of the instrument can be brought up to the convex edge of the cornea under the conjunctiva, and will remain there passively, without any dragging force. As squint-operation is a painful one, at any rate as compared with most eye operations, it is usual to give an anaesthetic ; but, during and after the in- halation, the muscles of the eyes do not act together as they would without its having been used, and, at any rate, at such times the patient cannot be made to attend well to the Surgeon's wishes in directing his eyes. Children with or without chloroform or bichloride of methylene will not give us this assistance, and they therefore at least should always have the anaesthetic. The operation being over, and it being found that the tenotomy has been satisfactorily done, a piece of lint wetted with cold water, and a round hollow sponge or some wool dipped in the same, are at once tied tightly over the eye, with a strip of common bandage fastened behind the opposite ear in a knot. In six hours the lint, sponge, and bandage may be left off (the fear of " black eye," or much ecchymosis, being passed), the two eyes may be uncovered and brought into use together (for distant objects as much as possible), and the eyes only bathed with lukewarm water as often as the patient may desire it. Tenotomy, as concerns the muscles of the eyes, is hardly ever done but for the cure of one or other of the kinds of squint actually existing. It is, how- ever, desirable to divide the external rectus tendon in some cases of muscular asthenopia (insufficiency of the internal rectus muscles) as well as of external strabismus; and several of the tendons (sometimes in the same eye of the same patient) have been divided in cases of oscillating globes ; and the upper, inner, and outer tendons have been cut when an artificial pupil has been made necessarily at the upper margin of the cornea, so as to weaken the opponents of the inferior rectus. OPERATIONS ON THE EXTERIOK OF THE GLOBE. Pterygium.—This is not a common disease in England. The cases which we have seen have been in adult men, sailors, perhaps foreigners. The disease consists in an hypertrophy of some portion of the ocular conjunctiva and subconjunctival tissues, consequent upon some long previous chronic irritation or inflammation; and as the vessels of this mucous membrane pass to or from the centre of the globe in front, radiating in all directions, it has