COREL YSIS.—CA TARA CT. 29 recurrence of iritis, therefore, at tiny indefinite time, are left ; but the damage it' there should he total posterior synecida, tends always and at all times, without intermission or hope of abatement, to aggravate itself, by the constant dragging the great tension that is kept up, by the accumulation of aqueous humour from behind, upon the iris between its greater and lesser circumferences, its ciliary and pupillary borders. Occlusion of the pupil is a very different case : it is when the pupil is tilled by a false membrane after an iritic inflam- mation : the pupil may be, and is, very probably , also excluded, but if it be only occluded, it may not be bound down to the lens at all, and the aqueous humour may pass freely from the posterior into the anterior aqueous chamber through the occluded pupil: in some such cases I have opened out the false membrane and made a central pUpil, ■without at all interfering with the iris. {Ophthalmic Hospital Reports, Vol. II., page 311.) If iris-adhesions be few in number, three or four perhaps, and these be not wide, if the iritis have occurred but once, at least two or three months previously, and the iris seem, otherwise healthy, able and ready to dilate, as much as could be expected, considering the adhesions, under the influence of atropine, and the latter remedy have been fairly tried (a drop of a strong solution placed in the eye three or four times a day for a week) and have failed, I have been in the habit of detaching them with a spatula-hook passed between the iris and the lens (Op. cit., p. 309). There is no fear of wounding the lens. But, now, unless cir- cumstances be altogether favourable, according to the above data, I am afraid of lighting up a fresh iritis and of getting re-adhesions after the detachment has been done. The results of Corelysis, as I have called it, are altogether en- couraging in these favourable cases : the patient, not old in years or in general health, his iris fully dilated, and able to dilate, but for a few tense adhesions posteriorly by which it is distorted. But, in most cases, the adhesions are either more numerous and extensive, or they have been, just after the iritis, detached 1 »y the proper use of atropine: if this have not been and cannot be accomplished, and the adhesions be numerous or extensive, or both, the question of an iridectomy arises. If vision (the pupil) be much obstructed, together with the fact of the adhesions, an iridectomy, by way of artificial pupil, must be done. "Without much impairment of vision, on the other hand, if the iritis should become recurrent, an iridectomy, larger and upwards, is required for the purpose of arresting the recurrences (see Iridectomy). If the pupil be somewhat blocked, besides the synechia?, and there be recurrent iritis, still it is iridectomy. The two reasons for iridectomy coexist, and probably it will be desirable to make a rather large iridectomy down and inwards; or a large iridectomy may be made in the usual upward direction, and, subsequently a small iridectomy, by way of artificial pupil, in the opposite direction. CATARACT. Until within a very few years, it was considered an easy matter to deter- mine, in any case of cataract, what operation should and would be done. One was a case for extraction (by a large flap, as it is now called), another as cer- tainly would be removed by needle-operation, and a third by linear extraction, as it was called. Now every ophthalmic Surgeon is in search of some improved method which shall diminish the number of his unfavourable results ; and everything is changed for the better, or it may be for the worse. It is rather a bold thing, as far as the profession is concerned, to do an extraction as it is used to be done, making a semicircular section of the cornea, &c. This state of un- certainty makes it also very much more difficult to say what operation is meant by name, or to venture to recommend any particular operation in any case.