OPHTHALMIC 8UBGEBY. -P take on inflammatory action by the pressure and mechanicul irritation of the, in these cases very soft, swollen lens-matter. The immediate result of the use of the needle in this operation is, that the cataraetous lens becomes very much increased in bulk by the admission of the aqueous humour within its capsule. Operation.—The needles used should be very fine, and should not let the aqueous humour escape beside them. The pupil is to be dilated with atropine, which must be constantly employed in these cases during all the surgical treat- ment. An anossthetic is sometimes necessary. A stop-speculum is inserted between the lids, to keep them apart; and a little fold of conjunctiva and subcon- junctival tissues is to be seized with the toothed forceps just below the cornea, or opposite to the point at which the needle is to be introduced, as may be most con- venient, to steady the eye. The needle, held in the other hand, is made to enter the anterior chamber through the cornea, at some part near the margin, wher- ever it may seem best, probably at the upper and outer part; it must not be passed very obliquely through the coats of the cornea, or in its use they will be much twisted. The point of the needle, having passed the pupillary margin, is then carried on down to the centre of the anterior surface of the lens, which is nearer to the cornea, according to the youth of the patient, and made to enter its substance a little way, and the capsule is torn open by moving the needle-point in various directions to aud fro. If the operation be performed for the first time in a very young patient, the lens is so soft that it is very readily broken up by the to-and-fro movements, and by rotation of the needle (drilling), but it soon afterwards swells up very much, and therefore but little should be done. If the needle be passed far into the sirbstance of the lens towards the nucleus, it will, unless the patient be very young, become fixed in the denser substance, and the lens will move about as a whole on the needle, and may become dislocated. If the patient be older, or have been before operated on, one needle will not, perhaps, freely lacerate the tough anterior capsule, and two may be required. The fixing forceps must then be entrusted to an assist- ant ; or, one needle being entered some distance in the anterior chamber, it may be used, the patient being then quiet, for an instant, as a fixing point, holding the eye forwards, until the needle in the other hand has been also entered, and then the eye is perfectly under command. If one needle only be required to be used, it is better to use neither speculum nor forceps, but the fingers of the other hand (Fig. 455) instead of both, unless the eye be small and deep in the orbit. If two needles are to be used, the speculum must be employed, and then, choosing an opportunity when the eye is still, one needle, and then quickly that in the other hand, is introduced ; and the operation is completed with the two needles, opening out the lens, whilst at the same time they keep the eye steady. The needle-operation is always the best for infantile cataract. So, in child- hood, if one of these so-called congenital cataracts have been left so long for operation, it should be broken up with the needle for its ultimate gradual removal by the natural process of absorption. Children and young adults hardly ever have any other kind of cataract than the congenital, unless it be the result of some -wound or mechanical injury of the lens : then also, if the lens have become opaque, unless already the lens-capsule be sufficiently lacerated, the needle must be employed at once, and again and again whenever it may seem to be necessary to expedite and complete the process of removal, after a longer or shorter time, according to the rapidity with which the absorp- tion proceeds ; and this will be more or less, in inverse proportion to the age of the patient. Though the anterior chamber is so small and the iris so close