12 pigment was dark brown. By other observers cells containing Mood-corpuscles have been found repeatedly near haemorrhages in melanotic tumours. When, as in most melanotic tumours, no haemorrhages have been found, penetration of red blood-corpuscles through the coats of the vessel may be assumed, and this action would be very much favoured by the capacious and thin-walled vessels of the melanoma. The tumour in question, which was interesting in other par- ticulars, was situated on the cornea, with a narrow base, fungus-like. Its surface was smooth, with little pigment; the deeper parts were extensively coloured of a dark brown by porous-like layers of distant vessels. It was placed upon a fibrous pannus-like mass, which grew from the conjunctiva, covering the anterior surface of the cornea, but without affecting its substance. On the other hand, a brown colouring extended from the tumour into the upper layers of the cornea, even beyond the tumour. The coloured parts consisted of epithelial-like cells, which, with- out intercellular substance, were lying loosely together, and were partly pigmented, partly pigmentless. The cells were lying in round alveoli, the reticular spaces between which were occupied by vessels and closely compacted cells, which, for the most part, were more strongly pigmented than the cells of the alveoli themselves. In the parts non-pigmented the cells were much smaller, round, elongated, or spindle-shaped, closely compacted in a finely-granular or striped ground substance ; the vessels were here also much finer. —Centralblatt fur die Medicinischen Wissenschaften, May 14th, 1870, pp. 346-7. Calabar Bean in Suppuration of the Cornea.—M. Galezowski says the contractile action exerted by the bean on the vessels of the cornea opposes their dilatation and congestion, and singularly aids the cicatrization of wounds. Belladonna, which produces opposite effects, should, he thinks, be discarded in these affections.—Annuaire de The'rapeutique, 1870. False Colouring and Indefinition of Objects by Santonin.—Walter G. Smith, M.B., says, " On the 30th of Angust, a bright clear day, I took five grains of pure white santonin, half an hour after luncheon. While engaged in reading, some three hours after, I became gra- dually conscious of a yellowish tint on the paper, and fancied that there must be a yellow haze in the air. My own hands and the complexions of others appeared of a sallow, unhealthy colour, and the evening sky, which was really of a pale lavender tint, seemed to be of a decided light green. Vision was not perfectly distinct for some hours, and was accompanied by a certain vagueness of defini- tion. This effect was followed each time after a dose of four or five grains of santonin, whether of the white or yellow modification."— Dublin Quarterly Journal, November 1st, 1870, p. 266. Microphthalmos.—Mr. Wilson has exhibited to the Dublin Patho- logical Society an eye which he had extirpated. There had been a