Ol'llTUALMIC SURGERY. 22 eye retains perception of light. But, in order that the operation may he likely to succeed in restorin" useful vision in such cases, the patient should not oidy have a perception of light, but should be able, when the other eye is closely covered with the palm of the hand, to readily perceive the shadow of the hand of the Surgeon when it is passed quickly before the light, between it and the eye of the patient, even at a distance of two or three feet. If there be a less degree of vision remaining, if the tension of the eyeball be plus or minus, indications of intraocular pressure, or atrophy, there must have been some deep-seated disease, besides the iritic inflammation, the immediate cause of the obstructed pupil. After estimating the degree to which vision is impaired in the case of proposed operation for artificial pupil, the Surgeon must observe accurately what evidence of past disease he can see with his own eyes, and compare all this with the history of the case. If corneal opacity be the reason why an artificial pupil should be made, the operation must be deferred until, after some months at least, no improvement by progressive clearing has taken place, according to the history of the case, or by the Surgeon's observation, no redness of the sclerotic has appeared around the cornea, and no former operation of the same kind has been attempted. A lad was admitted at University College Hospital for the operation of artificial pupil. He had had keratitis of both eyes some years before, and slight attacks more recently. He had been treated at intervals as an out-patient for a long time, with cod-liver oil and syrup of iodide of iron, &c. He was anaemic, and, apparently, lived poorly. When taken into the Hospital, he had full diet, and he sat, almost blind, by the fire with the other jmtients. Very soon he could see better, and in a short time the clear marginal part of the cornea was wider. When the operation was performed, a few weeks after his admission, it was remarkable how his cornese were cleared, after they had been at a stand-still for months, if not for a year previously, accord- ing to the patient's own account, and the latter part of the time during which he had been under our own observation.* Of course, if there be ever any appearance of present, or any history of recent inflammation, any faint diffused nebula of the cornea and slight redness around it, it must be understood that it is not of that external nature with superficial vessels, due to granular lids, an inverted eyelash, or other mechanical means, but an affection of the cornea itself. One can only wait for the cornea to clear as much it will, always from the margin, of course. The general health of the patient must be attended to, and belladonna locally may be of some use, meanwhile, as a sedative and mydriatic. In any case of opacity of the cornea extending nearly to the margin, and allowing at no part any wider clear space for artificial pupil, the incision of the cornea must be made in the sclerotico-corneal junction and very little obliquely, so that the iris may be drawn out quite up to its outer circumference. Artificial pupil, if one eye only be diseased, is urgently required if there be total posterior synechia or numerous adhesions, and should be done, although the performance of the operation is not urgent, if the patient incline to it, in any of the other cases, even if the unaffected eye be perfectly sound. Incision.—This is an operation not much in use. It is advisable perhaps only when the lens is no longer present, or, at least, is useless and of no account by results of operation or injury, and the iris has prolapsed through the corneal wound ; or when the pupil has been obliterated in consequence of iritis, the cornea remaining clear, and, there being no communication between the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, the iris-fibres bulge forwards all •In cases of old hopcloss leuoomata, at a subsequent timo to the operation for artificial pupil. If any such operation be done, the disfigurement may be entirely remedied by tattooing Oiem of a somewhat darker colour than the iris.