9 defective. This dimness of vision varied a good deal ; at one visit he could scarcely distinguish objects at all, or count fingers ; while at the next he wanted only clear vision of details. There were some symptoms of uraemia existing, such as drowsiness and occasional vomiting.—Lancet, June 3rd, 187 L, p. 746. Glycositric Amblyopia.—Dr. Fitzgerald related to tbe Dublin Pathological Society a case of dimness of vision in diabetes. There was no cataract, no haemorrhages, only atropby of the optic nerve and retina, and (the choroidal vessels and pigment islands were very well seen) tbe epithelial layer of tbe choroid implicated, " but this is only natural when we consider its very close relation witb tbe external layers of tbe retina." The opposite eye had been lost by an injury seven years previously (tbe lens dislocated).—Dublin Quarterly Journal, August 1st, 1870, p. 226. Bloodletting in some Eye Diseases.—Mr. Hamilton, of Liverpool, protests against the almost entire disuse of local bloodletting. He employs leeches and cupping, and relates three cases, characterised by more or less evident hyperemia of the optic nerves and dilated pupils, corroborative of his views, of which also be gives a rationale. —The Practitioner, June, 1870, pp. 340-8. Squint Doiunwards.—Surgeon Partridge, of Bombay, reports this case:—Captain E—, set. 45, generally used only the right eye, and had acquired a habit of half closing tbe left at tbe time. Both being open, the left eye was turned directly downwards, or downwards and very slightly inwards. There was no paralysis. " Both eyes being uncovered, and he being told to look with the left eye only, the right eye was turned somewhat upwards." The left inferior rectus was divided subconjunctivally aud the squint perfectly cured. In the left eye (V=i) the patient had mixed astigmatism. Glasses for the two eyes were ordered.—Medical Times and Gazette, March 4th, 1871, p. 243. Insufficiency of the Internal Recti.—Dr. Swanzy says in muscular asthenopia (as distinguished from the accommodation) there are pains and sensations of tension, more especially, perhaps, in the brow. In accommodation astbenopia, " if work be proceeded with, the objects soon become indistinct; in muscular .asthenopia this is also tbe case; but here, if the patient be reading, the indistinctness consists more in a shifting of the words and lines over each other than in a general cloudiness of them. In both forms a shorter or longer rest enables work to be proceeded with again; but in the muscular form the benefit derived is less striking ; in it tbe rest must be of longer duration, and the periods of work sborter. Many persons suffering from muscular asthenopia learn to cover one eye with the band during close work, by which means they succeed in evading the troublesome symptoms." As a certain test, be recom-