OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. .4 a belter position when he is sitting on the edge of the couch, on the side opposite to that of the eye ahout to he operated on, so that he may he as little as possible in his own light. In either position, whether from behind or on one side facing the patient, he will, for one or the other eye, if both should require to be operated on, have to cross his hands, if not so ambidextrous that he can use the scissors with his left hand. And, in this particular operation, that the Surgeon is in an unfavourable position as regards light is of little importance to him. In using the spring-wire stop speculum to keep open the lids, it is a point worth remembering that, chloroform not being used, less pain will have to be home by the patient, if, when the speculum has been allowed to open to the widest extent, it be then a very little closed and then so much fixed open. In many very trifling operations a speculum is often used, when chloroform is quite unnecessary, and when the instrument would not be wanted at all by a practised operator, who prefers his fingers. The same remark often applies to the use of forceps, for fixing the eye (see Tapping the Cornea, p. 352). It is well if the fingers can be made to answer the purposes of speculum and forceps ; but such pressure on the globe of the eye with the fingers as is required, when they are employed not only to keep the eye open, but to fix the globe, would be dangerous in any case in which any considerable opening is to be made in the coats of the eye, as in some of the cataract operations, iridectomy, &c. Operations on the eyelids and con- junctiva, the skin, and mucous membrane, are probably very much more painful than are any of the internal operations on the eye : therefore an anoesthetic may be used in such cases for the sake of the patient. In the major (internal) operations on the eye we must use the anaesthetic very much for the advantage of the operator ; to whom any little movements of the patient, during an operation, are a great inconvenience, if they be not actually dangerous to the result. In testing the amount of vision of a cataractous or otherwise blind eye (so called) we must cover the other. So also, to produce perfect seclusion of an eye, whether after operation or not, we must cover both ; because the two eyes, their irides, and the muscles of the globe, act together. And whenever a shade is ordered, it should be over both eyes. Of eye-bandages, the best, unless much pressure be required, is Liebreich's, which consists of an oblong piece of knitted cotton with a piece of tape sewn to it at one end, and at the other two such tapes, which are joined, and have beyond them another single tape. The two tapes are put one above and the other below the occiput to steady the ban- dage, and the two single ends of tape are tied together, as tightly as may be required, round the head. If common bandages he employed, the two ends may be tied in a knot on the side of the head opposite to that of the eye affected ; or, the two ends being split for a short distance, the two lower half ends may be tied above the occipital protuberance and the two upper ones below it. The object is to employ no more length of bandage than may be required, and to prevent the bandage from becoming shifted. A narrow flannel bandage, long enough to be passed many times round the head, is the best bandage when pressure on an eye is required. OPERATIONS "We are here only concerned in extent, peculiar to the eyelids. Tumours.—Of tumours there are Molluscum is-very common about by thrusting a'sharp-pointed knife 6n the eyelids. thqse operations which are, at least to some 1 ere, as elsewhere, many kinds, the skin of the eyelids. This is best treated through the tumour, with the back of the