4 turning within of the outermost ring every desired inclination can be imparted to the originally horizontal turning axis which was directed from the lateral to the median side, in which case it remains always in the plane perpendicular to the sight line. It is known that according to Listing's laws the eye turns around an axis, which stands perpendicular upon the first and second position of the sight line, which condition therefore is fulfilled in the apparatus. Also the inclination of the representations of horizontal and vertical lines and the solution of Helmholtz of the movements of the eye ("raising and lowering, turning laterally of the sight line, rotation) may he demonstrated by the model, of which in the original a full description is set forth.—Centralblatt fur die Medicinischen Wis- senschaften, July 16th, 1870, p. 510. Test Types.—Dr. ~B. Joy Jeffries, judging by his own vision, doubts if our tests are sufficiently nice—if the power of reading Snellen's No. XX, at 20 ft., is not considerably below the average. The doctor, e.g., can read No. VIII of Snellen's types at the same dis- tance, " when not feeling below par in general sensation of health." Of some recruits he has examined, he says:—" The same men who the day after a spree could not read my Snellen XL or L, would come back the day following and read XX fluently."—Transactions of the American Ophthalmological Society, 1869, p. 43. Accommodation.—Brought about in the human eye by the ciliary muscle. Mr. Hulke infers that the normal condition of the lens at rest is to be compressed and flattened, especially on its anterior sur- face, by the action of its suspensory ligament, and that the ciliary muscle, by drawing forward the choroid and processes, and slack- ening the ligament, allows the lens to assume a greater degree of anterior convexity.—Lancet, July 9th, 1870, p. 62. Traumatic Paralysis of Accommodation.—Dr. G. C. Harlan reports three cases of this nature, two of them uncomplicated, a rare result of injuries. Dimness of vision and a widely dilated pupil were the leading symptoms prima facie. Calabar bean was applied locall}', and recovery was complete and speedy.—Amer. Journ. Med. Science, Jan., 1871, p. 139. Paralysis of the Ciliary Muscle from Diphtheria.—Three cases of Mr. Hutchinson's are reported. The patients were children, and unable to read, and, unless there were also hypermetropia pre- sent, as in other cases of the kind, distant objects were well seen without a convex glass, such as is needed for reading when the muscle of accommodation is paralysed, without hypermetropia. "In a month or six weeks the sight is again perfect."—Lancet, Jan. 7th, 1871, p. 13. Epileptic Pupil.—Dr. Clouston, as to the various states of the pupil in insanity, of which he considers a permanent contraction to be the most unfavorable prognostic, makes the following remark, " I