OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. 36 forwards by tlie vitreous body behind it, and so, if any fragments of opaque lens be on it, they are presented forwards in the pupil, and a spoon may be em- ployed once or twice for their removal. No blood-clot, nor any lens-matter, nor of course, the edges of the iridectomised iris, must be left in the corneal wound. Extraction by Von Grafe's Method.—Since the last edition of this work, four years ago, this operation has grown immensely in favour with ophthalmic Surgeons, and almost all senile cataracts are now extracted in this way ; or, at least, this operation is the grand foundation on which individual operators have built their modifications in details according to their own incli- nations. First of all, we may observe that the idea seems to be based on two principal facts : 1st. That, to extract a cataract, it is not necessary to make so large an opening as a half section of the cornea, as in the old flap-operation— which, indeed, became clear to us some years ago, when the traction-instru- ments were invented ; and 2nd. That it is equally unnecessary as a rule, even with the smaller opening, and very undesirable on all accounts if its use can be avoided, to introduce any traction-instrument within the eye, as is done in the operation last described. (If Von Grafe used any such aid in any case, it was a small blunt hook instead of a spoon.) The incision is made with a knife like a sharp-pointed tenotomy-knife,by puncture and counter-puncture, of perhaps one- fourth of the circle of the sclerotico-corneal junction. Attached to the corneal flap is left a flap of conjunctiva to cover the incision. An iridectomy is made, and, of course, the lens-capsule is lacerated in the usual manner. To evacuate the lens, the back of the curette is pressed against the sclerotic margin of the incision, and the necessary counter-pressure below is made with the fixing forceps. The cortical lens-matter generally remains to be removed, after the nucleus has come out or has been removed by the hook placed under and around it. Von Grafe says that the advantages are the following :—1st, the incision is linear ; in consecpience of which the co-aptation of the edges of the wound is more perfect than is the case after a flap incision, and there is less risk of gaping of the wound, permitting loss of vitreous humour after the performance of the operation : 2nd, it is peripheral, passing chiefly through a vascular texture, in which the healing process occurs more rapidly than in a non-vascular tissue : 3rd, the incision may be viewed as subconjunctival, being covered by a flap of conjunctiva : 4th, a portion of iris is removed, and thus no prolapse of iris can occur, and the tendency to iritic inflammation is diminished : 5th, in most cases no instrument is introduced to assist the evolution of the lens, and, when such is necessary, a hook merely is employed ; and 6th, the after-treatment is of short duration. Now probably no extraction by Von Grafe's method is ever done in all its stages, exactly as Von Grafe used to do it, and no operator is free from all prejudice in favour of his own particular modifications, which indeed to him only, it may be, are advantages in operating ; but some few practical remarks as to my own experience of this now established method of performing the most important of the capital operations in eye surgery may be useful. The pupil is under the influence of atropine. The anaesthetic preferred may be fearlessly given ; and, the patient being well under its influence, a spring speculum (Fig. 453, a) is introduced between the lids, and the eye itself steadied by grasping a considerable fold of conjunctiva at some distance below the lower margin of the cornea, with the toothed forceps (Fig. 453, 6). For either eye to be operated on, I stand, as usual, behind the head of the patient lying on the couch, and hold the forceps generally in my left hand, because, in my way of making the corneal section, the knife for cither eye nun be as conveniently held in the right hand. I prefer a Sichel's knife, as in