3 day, has similar coloured organs of vision. On the other hand, the cupulet, a pigeon scarcely known in England, has an eye infinitely whiter than pearl; it is the highest flying and the longest on the ■wing of all the pigeon tribe, and mostly chooses midday for its flight. He concludes that pearl- or white-eyed birds succeed the best in broad daylight and clear weather, and vice versa. One bird flew 500 miles in one day. It is said that, in taking their course, at the out- set, their vision enables the best birds, in particular, to recognise some familiar landmark in relation to their home.—Standard, April 10th, 1871. The Eye oftlie Mole.—Dr. R J. Lee shows that, though the foetal mole has an optic nerve, foramen, &c., both are completely atrophied or absent in the adult.—Lancet, July 9tb, 1870, p. 55. Anterior Epithelium of the Cornea.—The lowest layer of the anterior epithelium of the mammalian cornea consisting of' cylindrical cells, contains in scanty distribution peculiar cells, whose chief dis- tinction from those around them depends on the nature of their nuclei, which show remarkably granular oval corpuscles, whose intercellular layer mostly is with difficulty to be shown. In fine diagonal sections of the cornea through the epithelium, these corpuscles lie at an almost uniform little distance from the anterior elastic layer. Quite freshly examined, they appear more pale, by help of reagents as ellipsoid forms, which contain numerous heterogeneously grouped and arranged longish granules in a clear ground substance. Neither with the wandering cells of the corneal epithelium nor with the always double contoured nuclei of the neighbouring epithelial cells are these corpuscles to be confounded; the origin and signification of which is as yet entirely obscure. Prom successive horizontal sections it is evident that the reproduc- tion of the corneal epithelium does not proceed in the inferior, but essentially in the middle layers by division of nuclei. According to which one might have therefore to distinguish an inferior constant cylindrical-epithelium, and a superior constantly renovated division of the epithelium, consisting of flat cells.—Centralblatt fur die Medi- cinisclien Wissenschaften, May 28th, 1870, p. 383. Intimate Structure of the Vitreous in the Human Eye and in that of the Vertebrata generally.—G. V. Ciaccio arrives at directly contrary results to those hitherto published, asserting that the minute structure of the vitreous in foetal life and in adults is absolutely the same; that the whole mass of it consists of a very transparent sticky homogeneous matter, and also of an extremely fine inextricable net interspersed in the same of extraordinarily numerous fine fibres felted together, which are intimately attached to the inner surface of the hyaloid. The fibrous network is especially evident when the vitreous has been treated with alcohol and chromic acid, but in the perfectly fresh condition traces of it may be discovered.