6 in the eye. The (ophthalmoscopic) morbid appearances he arranges in two heads, the secoud including the traumatic cases : 1. Simple or primary atrophy of the optic nerve, sometimes accompanied, at first, by that slight hypertonia and inactive proliferation which make up the state I have called chronic neuritis. This sort of change he has never found as a result of spinal injuries, but he has often met with it in chronic degeneration of the cord and in locomotor ataxy. 2. A somewhat characteristic hyperamiic change not seen in chronic degeneration, or in locomotor ataxy, but in cases of injury of the spine only. The retinal arteries do not dilate, but become indistin- guishable, while the veins begin to swell and become somewhat dark and tortuous. The disc then becomes uniformly reddened, and its borders are low, the redness or pinkness commencing with increased firm vascularity at the inner border, which thence invades the white centre and the rest, so that the disc is obscured, or its situa- tion known only by the convergence of the vessels. In many cases, rather than redness, he has observed a delicate pink—pink which sometimes passes into a daffodil colour. It ends in resolution rather than in atrophy. Sometimes the sight suffers a good deal in these cases, sometimes but little or scarcely at all. He has not seen true optic neuritis, with active proliferation, as a sequel of spinal disease. As to the processes connecting the changes in the spine and in the eye, the author, in the first place, objects to Prof. "Wharton Jones's recent explanations of injury to the cord causing the sympathetic nerve or its origins to be involved, and so are, consequently, the blood-vessels, and nutritional changes are superinduced in the eye. He also objects that he has not observed, ophthalmoscopically, the di- latations of the arteries at and above the disc, to which Mr. Jones alludes. Can a palsied sympathetic be the ruin of the optic disc, when its effects are unseen in the pupil, unseen in the conjunctiva, unseen in the ear and cheek ? Again, he says, it is a matter of veri- fied observation, in numerous cases in which there have been most obvious signs of a palsied sympathetic in the ear, face, and outer eye, that in these very cases the back of the eye has been found un- changed. He is led towards the conjecture that hyperemia of the back of the eye, following injury to the spine, is probably dependent upon a greater or less extension of meningeal irritation up to the base of the brain. Spinal meningitis does creep up to the encephalon, and if this ascending meningitis be the correct explanation, it accords with his observation that, in general, the higher the injury to the spine the sooner the affection of the eye. Atrophy of the discs is seen, not in injuries of the spine, but in slow degeneration of the cord, in cases, that is, where meningitis is usually absent or inactive, and it is seen most frequently by far in that degeneration of the cord called sclerosis of the posterior columns—of that part of the cord which tends to travel towards the encephalon, and not towards the periphery—up to the cerebellum.—Lancet, Jan. 15th, 1870, p. 76. The Ophthalmoscope in the Treatment of Epilepsy.—Dr. Reuben Vance, of New York, distinguishes two forms of the disease, diagnosed