11 He contrasts the advantages of this artificial maturation with the method of extraction of the immature cataract in its capsule. " In all cases in which trouble is to be anticipated from the adhesive character of the still transparent cortex, the surgeon lias the addi- tional l-esource of extracting the lenticular system in its entirety, the lens in its unbroken capsule. But a transparent cortex gene- rally implies a condition of rather firm connection between the hyaloid and the posterior capsule, and there is then constant liability to loss of vitreous prior to the escape of the lens. When this hap- pens, or when the lens resists moderate pressure, it becomes neces- sary to use traction instruments; and the operation has then been followed, in some instances, by inflammation and cell-proliferation in the vitreous itself, causing turbidity that only very slowly dis- appears. Moreover, the extraction in the unbroken capsule requires a very large iridectomy, likely to be productive of dazzling and im- perfect vision; and it also requires a rather large external section, which increases the risk to the cornea. On the whole, therefore, the dangers of this method are probably greater than those of punc- ture as a preliminary to extraction, and its advantages in respect of saving time and of perfection of vision are only obtained when the course of events is altogether without accident or complication."— St. George's Hospital Reports, 1871, p. 345. Corelysis and Paracentesis for results of Iritis.—Mr. Carter suggests that Streatfeild's spatula-hook should be made to cut in the notch, for which purpose the latter should be somewhat larger than he made it. Mr. Carter fears irido-dialysis, and he further suggests that the spatula-hook be made bent on the flat for its use on the nasal side of the eye. When, in iritis, the tension is increased, and only recently, Mr. Carter does paracentesis and evacuates the aqueous, humour, " by opening the little incision by a fine probe, or by the beak of Weber's lachrymal knife. In most cases it will be desirable to introduce the probe two or three times a day for the first few days, and thus to establish a drain of aqueous humour, which will, in fact, be a sort of indirect depletion of the vessels of the eye.' (In a case of the intractable creeping ulcer of the cornea Mr. Carter incised it, and every day, for a week or ten days, re- opened the incision along its whole length by the beak of a Weber's knife.)—Ibid., 1871, pp. 356-7-9. Melanoma of the Cornea.—Supplementarily to his experimental investigations on the formation of pigment in extravasation, Th. Langbans sought also to infer the pigmentation of melanotic tumours from the transformation of cells containing blood-corpuscles. In the case of melanoma of the cornea investigated by him, cells con- taining blood-corpuscles could not, of course, be any longer shown, as they had already many months been lying in spirit, but the pig- ment was collectively enclosed in cells, and the larger pigment- granules had yet, in part, clearly the form and size of the normal discoid or the altered globular blood-corpuscles; the colour of the