OPRTRALMIO SURGl.'UY. 34 almost set nskle this objection. The great extent of the surgical wound in the cornea, then deemed indispensable, was naturally an evil prognostication if the patient were feeble, lest the section should never heal, or the cornea die of malnutrition ; or, if the patient had an habitual cough, it was ominous of vitreous escape through so large an opening, or of prolapse of the iris at least, in the same way. Iris-adhesions, always unfavourable, when no iridectomy was done, were a fatal objection to an extraction. Our patients now-a-days have great advantages at least in the improved methods of extraction. But no result of any surgical operation is so beautiful as a successful extraction by the old semicircular flap ; and, all things being favourable, the patient completely anoesthetised, it may still be done in some few cases. Hard or senile cataracts are extracted wholly and at once by one of the three following methods. Extraction by Flap-Operation.—The old operation of extraction by a semi-circular flap is thus done. The patient is lying on his back on a high couch with his feet to the window ; the Surgeon standing behind him, having cautioned the patient against any irregular movement on his part, puts his forefinger against the lower edge of the patient's upper lid, using his left hand for the right eye of the patient, and vice versd, raises it, and holds it securely against the upper margin of the orbit. The middle finger is put on the surface of the globe, on the nasal side, to keep it from rolling inwards. An assistant has charge of the lower lid, which he depresses and holds securely against the edge of the orbit without any pressure on the globe itself. The Surgeon, with the extraction-knife, held like a pen in his other hand, again cautions the patient, tells him to look towards his feet, and, resting the hand with the fourth finger on his cheek, enters the point of the triangular knife (Sichel's) at the outer side of the cornea, near its margin ; then, not allowing the eye to be rolled in, he thrusts the knife rather quickly across the anterior chamber in front of the iris, and penetrates, from within, the cornea at the inner side, making the counter- puncture just opposite to and symmetrical with the first; so that the upper half of the cornea is in front of the knife or before its cutting edge. The knife is now only thrust onwards as far as it can be, until the flap is completed : but this, very probably, cannot be done but in drawing the knife back again a little, or by little to-and-fro movements. Until the section is nearly completed, and the knife has passed in front of the whole iris, it must not be at all retracted ; or the aqueous humour is allowed to escape, and the iris falls in front of the cutting edge. The lids are now freed, and the patient told to keep them gently shut. After a short rest the lids are held open, but they need not be again so firmly fixed as before ; the patient is then told again to look down, the convex back of the pricker, held horizontally, is inserted between the edges of the corneal wound, carried down to the pupillary area, and turned with its point against the capsule of the lens. Then, by a few light scratches, this is freely lacerated and the instrument withdrawn, with its back turned upwards, so that its point may not be caught in the iris or cornea. The eye is again closed for a minute, and when again opened, it is by the operator only, who raises the upper lid as before, but without much pressure against the edge of the orbit, and then he places the convex back of the curette horizontally on the skin of the lower lid near its margin. "With this he makes intermittent light pressure on the globe just below the ciliary region, and synchronous counter-pressure with the point of the forefinger, which is holding the upper lid at its margin against the ciliary region just above the corneal wound. This requires much tact and attention. If the globe be compressed too far back, the lens will escape violently, and not improbably with some of the vitreous humour. If it be compressed too far in