38 OPHTHALMIC SURGERY. become larger and larger, the curette pursues it until it is just all outside the corneal opening. At this stage, of course, the slightest continuance of pressure would lead to an escape of vitreous humour. If the curette he at any time slid upwards too soon, so as to get in advance of some of the soft lens- matter, the tendency is to push it hack from the corneal outlet, and it will probably never be made to escape, or vitreous humour will be lost.' No frag- ments of lens-matter must be left in the corneal wound or between the lids. A drop of atropine may be placed between the lids. A piece of fine linen (about 6X3 inches), is placed over loth eyes, a little pad of fine wool is placed in each orbital space, and over this is fitted a Liebreich's bandage of elastic knitted cotton, and tied comfortably tight. Sichel's moderately pointed knife cuts through the cornea better than the very obtuse keratome, or the very acute Von Griife's extraction-knife; and in the way it is recommended to be used, the inner and outer openings of the cornea may be made of the same size, square at both extremities, less obliquely through the coats, and the pupillary area is never transgressed. The incision may be less easily done, and less rapidly than is a single movement straight forward with a cutting instrument; but, for the curved incision, a previous determination of the line to be followed and a firm free hand only are needed. Escape of the vitreous humour is the most important mishap in a cataract extraction operation that is likely to occur. It is not that the loss of any small portion of vitreous humour is in itself very prejudicial, but it is not often that a very small portion only does escape : if a little escapje, it is probably followed by more ; and the quantity is hardly recognised at the time. If vitreous humour he lost in the operation, it influences the ultimate result rmfavourably; the eye is so much the less safe as an organ of vision hereafter, though the proximate result of the operation is successful. In the serous fluid occupying the place of the aqueous chambers and of the lens and the vitreous humour that is lost, the iris falls back out of its place, leaving a very deep anterior chamber, as it were, and has also probably got adhesions posteriorly to some new false membranes. And all synechias are, as I have said, in any case, incompatible with a prospect of safety for the future result. But if vitreous humour escape in any cataract operation before the lens, or that portion of the cataract which it was intended to evacuate by the operation, the operation is seriously marred; for if then the lens-niatter be removed—and, the vitreous body having got precedence, it very likely cannot be,—more and more of the vitre- ous humour is allowed to escape by necessity. Even if the major part of the lens be after all removed, the prolapsed vitreous body will retain some considerable fragments and press them aside against the iris and ciliary body, and so very likely mechanically set up inflammation. The Surgeon is bound to be alert in detecting the least tendency to or beginning of prolapse of the vitreous body : the opaque lens-matter, instead of advancing, perhaps recedes a little, and soon a small transparent bead appears in the corneal opening. This opening very likely is too small, and needs enlarging ; but after this, when the vitreous humour has shown itself once in the wound, still it would be dangerous to attempt the evacuation of the cataract by pressure ; a sharp hook for a hard cataract, or a spoon or the suction-curette for soft lens-matter, may be used. Sometimes vitreous humour will escape at the close of the operation, after the lens has been removed; this is insomuch less serious; but at all events, if vitreous humour have escaped before the bds are closed and bandaged, the escaping vitreous body should be divided across close to the corneal opening with a pail of scissors; then the wire speculum is raised a little from off the surface of the globe to remove its weight, and to prevent the action of the orbicularis upon it; and then,,this