37 IOX URAt'E'S OPERATION FOR CATARACT. iridectomy (p. 358), in the present operation ; not that there is anything to he feared in wounding the lens, or that it cuts hetter than Von Griife's, but because with it a section of the cornea can he made less obliquely in all its extent than by puncture and counter-puncture, which, in iridectomy for glaucoma, is also an advantage; and especially because, with so small a section of the cornea as is now made, the counter-puncture extremity of the section, when a counter-puncture is effected, makes so small an opening in the anterior chamber as compared with its size externally, and this is a deception, for of course its least dimensions are only practically available in the evacuation of a lens. The point of the knife being directed towards the centre of the pupil, the cornea is transfixed at its | upper margin at the right hand extremity of the intended incision ; the point of the knife is then carried" on between the cornea and iris along the upper circum- ference of the anterior chamber. No counter-puncture is made, but the knife is quickly brought into a more vertical position, and with a firm hand, and quickly, by little to-and-fro movements, the section is continued as far as need he to the left extremity of the intended opening. That this extremity may he square like the other, and not at all oblique, the knife should be either drawn out at the end of the section, held quite vertically; or, the knife being held horizontally, the edge is brought upwards and forwards, and its point is made so to cut its wray out suddenly at one stroke. The corneal opening should be as large as one-third^pf the circumference of the cornea; it had much hetter /».j^tjfijf/fcV he unnecessarily large, than a little too small in any case; it is easily extended at / either end, if it should seem to be necessary, by re-introduction of the point of the knife into the anterior chamber, and cutting right or left. No conjunc- tival flap is left to cover the wound : it is doubtful if, when it has been left, the corneal wound heals any the hetter. A considerable iridectomy is as usual made (p. 358), and the lens-capsule opened (p. 366). To evacuate the lens, the back of the curette, held horizontally, is now pressed on the globe hetween the lower margin of the cornea and the point below it, at which the globe is held with the fixing forceps?" By moderate pressure backwards, gradually increasing, and by a succession of little sliding movements from helow upwards, never reaching the edge of the cornea, the upper margin of the lens will begin to protrude at the corneal opening, and dilate it: as soon as it is cer- tainly advancing out of the eye, the sliding movements must be discontinued, d. and the simple, very gradually increasing backward, and upward pressure alone is to be kept up on the eye or the lens ; its largest part not having passed the opening, may recede as well as advance alternately with each up and down movement of the curette, and the extraction might never he completed. This steady backward pressure is to be kept up patiently until the largest part of the lens is certainly quite outside the corneal opening, when the whole body of the lens will probably fall aside out of the way, or it may be pushed aside, only not with the curette, for the pressure must not be altogether intermitted. At least we are no more concerned about it, and have only now to care for the complete removal of all the softer cortical lens-matter left behind in the an- terior chamber. The curette is continuously pressing on the lower front part of the globe, and now again the sliding movements upwards may he recom- menced, still not reaching forwards beyond the lower margin of the cornea ; hy this the vitreous body advances still more, and the lower part of the iris and cornea are brought into contact with it first, and soon, the pressure and upwards sliding movements being continued, the lower margin of the pupil is Been to be quite clear and black. The curette may now be slid a little up on to the lower part of the cornea; the opaque soft lens-matter will then rise higher, and so gradually, as it Is seen to advance, and the clear pupillary space to