19 UEMOVAL OF FOREIGN BODIES. and contracted—inclined to be inverted—by old results of ophthalmia. The upper lid being everted, it is held so and pushed upwards as much as possible with the thumb against its edge; and, the patient being desired to look very much down, we expose nearly the whole of the upper palpebral and ocular conjunctiva). If the foreign body be not now seen, it is well to pass the tip of the forefinger lightly over the everted palpebral conjunctiva, as in this way the foreign body may perhaps, if transparent, be felt; or we may pass the spoon-end of a common probe quite up to the sulcus, if it cannot be seen, ami along between the upper palpebral and ocular conjunctivas, to catch the foreign body if it should be there. If it be not now found we may again examine the cornea, for it is here that nearly all foreign bodies in the eye are found; and the oblique illumination with the ophthalmoscope, using a second convex lens as a magnifier, may be serviceable in this examination. Not unfrequently a larger foreign body, such as a small button, or a husk of corn, purposely or accidently introduced under the upper lid, has passed beyond the upper edge of the cartilage, and so is retained for months or years, until the persistent slight irritation leads to its detection and removal. Therefore, in doubtful cases, as above recommended, the spoon-end of a probe should be used. To avoid error in diagnosis, it is always well to inquire if the patient remem- ber the time at which the foreign body entered the eye, when he has the sensa- tion of an existing foreign body, for there are many irregularities of the surface of the palpebral conjunctiva, which, in its movements, give the sensation as of a foreign body when there is none. Conjunctivitis especially is a cause; and if there be no such cause, and the patient recollect no particular time at which he first felt the foreign body, and " something got into his eye," we must look for some little tumour, or a somewhat inverted eyelash or other persistent cause. A patient may have the sensation as of a foreign body in the eye when it is there no longer, but has left, perhaps, a slight abrasion. A foreign body in the cornea is best removed with the end of a little instru- ment which is like a piece of wire flattened at the end, and with a round edge, but little sharpened, like a " spud." A piece of wire, beaten out at the end, is the instrument made for themselves, and used by some one of their number, by the workmen in some of the large factories. With this, the lids and the eye itself being held open and fixed with the fingers, the foreign body is turned out of the hollow in which it is embedded. Sometimes, if it be very deep in the cornea, a sharp-pointed or cutting instrument must be used. There is a class of cases by no means common, which may be considered together with foreign bodies in or upon the cornea, for the offending substance is quite superficial to the cornea and keeps up irritation. It appears as a perfectly opaque, dense, whitish opacity on the front of the cornea, unlike leucoma in its 'perfectly definite outline, and in being very superficial and dead-white k> appearance. There is also some injection of the eye, which there is not generally in cases of circumscribed leucoma—the dense corneal opacity left long after the inflammation before it. The foreign substance is deposited in some hollow of the cornea, an excoriation, abrasion, or ulcer, probably after using some lotion of acetate of lead, which is too often applied by patients for all eye-inflammations indiscriminately. It must be picked out of the little hollow, like any other foreign body; and if it he in a layer beneath the epithelium, this must be scraped off, and then the deposit will be found immediately beneath it; and in these cases, with some difficulty, little by little, in broken Hakes or fragments, it can be removed with the point of a knife, or, with the edge of it held flat, it may be shaved off. It should be, at