5 have observed a condition of the pupil in an epileptic which 1 have not seen described. The patient is a youth of seventeen, who has taken epileptic fits from birth. After each fit, just when the tonic spasm has ceased, if the eye is kept open and the pupil watched, there occurs what appears to me to be an epileptic convulsion of the iris. It dilates to its utmost extent, and then contracts rhythmically for over two minutes at least. The movements are, of course, slower than the jerking convulsions of the voluntary muscles, but appear to me to be of tbe same character. From what I have observed in other cases too, I am inclined to think that the hitherto unexplained movements of the iris during and after an epileptic fit, are in reality of the nature of the spasmodic movements of the voluntary muscles."—Practitioner, July, 1871, p. 21. Demonstration Ophthalmoscope.—MM. "Wecker and G. Roger presented to the Paris Academie des Sciences, a prismatic objective, with which two observers can explore together the interior of the eye. — Archives Gertie"rales de Midecine, June, 1870, p. 756. Ophthalmoscopic Demonstration.—Dr. C. M. Gariel, in his recent publication, Paris, 1869, on the ophthalmoscope, has shown the pos- sibility, theoretically, of getting objective images thrown on a screen, and thus, by a modification, to make them visible, at one and the same time, to a number of persons.—Gazette Hebdomadaire, Dec. 17th, 1S69, p. 816. Ophthalmoscopic Signs of Death.—M. Poncet, of Strasbourg, has been investigating this point in man and animals. He has invented (and figured) a new ophthalmoscope for this purpose, which requires the eye to be observed in a dark chamber. In four to five hours, or less, the cornea is often too opaque for light to be transmitted, if the eyelids have not been closed. The cornea should be wetted with a drop of water to restore its transparency. Immediately after deat h the arteries generally disappear, and the veins are only shown by small, indistinct, irregular clots here and there. The choroidal plexuses are replaced by whitish or slightly rosy streaks in the pigment. The optic disc is yellowish white, in a fundus generally pale and doubt- ful in its.aspect, without vascularisation but for the clots mentioned. The fact of death having occurred, or of the exact moment when it has occurred, may thus be determined in any doubtful cases. — Archives Centrales de Medecine, April, 1870, pp. 408-24. Ophthalmoscopic Signs of Spinal Disease.—Dr. T. C. Allbutt, in re- viewing the facts, as they are known at the present time, adds to them his own observations. He says, in eight of thirty well-marked cases of spinal injury, secondary disturbance within the eye was found. These changes do not become established in the cases which run a short course, but they slowly supervene in the course of weeks or months in more chronic cases. In spinal diseases arising from in- jury, the higher the seat of the injury the sooner are these changes 2