EXTRACTION BY Tit ACTION. 35 front, the lens may be dislocated, but not out of the eye ; it may fall back into the villous space and be lost. If all go well, the upper edge of the lens is seen to come forwards through the pupil which it dilates, and then rides over it and presents itself in the corneal wound. The pressure should be kept up or increased, until little by little the lens has advanced so far that at least more than half is without the wound. Then, the pressure exerted being little and equal, the lens, if it remain in the wound, may be rolled out sideways with the tip of the middle finger of the hand which steadies the upper lid. This is better than increasing the pressure up to the final evacuation of the lens, as vitreous humour may follow it, and better than omitting altogether the pressure exerted, or much of the softer cortical parts of the lens are likely to be detached and left in the lips of the wound and in the anterior chamber. Any such are in the next place removed with the curette, if it can be done without much interference. If the iris be now inclined to prolapse, it may be pressed gently back with the small spatula, made for the purpose, held horizontally. The instruments, knife, pricker, &c, are all held horizontally; so that if the eye, ill controlled by the patient or Surgeon, should, in any stage, roll up- wards, as it has a tendency to do, the instrument in hand may not pass down- wards into the deeper parts of the eye, but be forced out of it by this move- ment. The iris now being in position, the pupil clear, and nothing being left between the edges of the corneal wound or within the palpebral aperture, the lids are gently closed, a smooth oblong piece of linen rag, with a slit in it for the nose, is placed over both eyes, then a little wool is put in the orbits over the rag, and a bandage over it round the head. The patient is kept in bed for a day or two, and fed with spoon meat. He may then get up and walk about the room a little. Extraction with a Traction-Instrument.—In this operation chloroform is given, and a wire speculum to keep open the lids, and forceps to hold the eye, are used. The Surgeon either thrusts in at the upper part of the sclerotico- corneal junction a lance-shaped knife in his right hand, or, what is preferable, the point of a Sichel's extraction-knife, at the right extremity of the incision which he intends to make in this part of the eye, and, holding it almost vertically, he cuts on as far as he intends, perhaps one-fourth of the circumference, to the left. He then makes a considerable iridectomy, larger than for artificial pupil, and not so large as in a case of glaucoma. Then with the pricker he lacerates the lens-capsule. He then passes the end of the traction-instrument (Critchett's spoon) between the lips of the wound, vertically, to the upper edge of the lens and within the capsule, rather posteriorly ; and, remembering anatomically the curve of the hinder capsule, he passes it along the curve just behind the lens itself. He then tilts forwards the end of the spoon, and, watching that the lens is coming with it, he begins to withdraw the instrument and the lens together. If the spoon will not go on between the lens and its capsule, it may be introduced perhaps a little sideways ; and as soon as it has begun to pass between the two, it may be passed all the way without difficulty. If the lens is being pushed before the point of the spoon, instead of the latter passing behind it, it will be seen, the front surface of the lens being purposely watched, to be passing downwards ; and we must try some other way, sideways, as above directed, or further backwards, and not of course push on the instrument so as to displace the whole lens downwards. The piece of iris excised must be so large that what is left does not become compressed between the spoon and the cornea, in the removal of the lens; and the corneal opening must be so large that not much dragging is required. The main body of the cataractous lens being extracted, the concavity of the posterior capsule, in winch it rested, is pressed