OI'IITIIALMIC SURGERY. 26 corneal junction, or even in the margin of the sclerotic, at the upper part. About one-fifth of the whole iris is removed in the operation. For this pur- pose, a lance-shaped knife is generally thrust into and across the anterior , chamber, and the incision is extended, if necessary, as the knife is being removed ; but an ordinary (Sichel's) extraction-knife is much preferable. It cuts better, requiring less thrusting force, and with it the wound in the cornea may be made less obliquely through the coats of the eye, nearer, that is to say, to the greater circumference of the Ms, which we want to reach ; and the point of the cutting instrument always between the cornea and iris may be kept quite away from the front surface of the lens, instead of being, as when the lance-knife is used, necessarily carried straight across it. In glaucoma, the anterior chamber is very shallow. The point of the knife, which may be held in the right hand for either eye if the operator be not ambidextrous, is in- troduced in the sclero-corneal junction, at the right extremity of the incision to be made, and carried a little way towards the centre of the anterior chamber; and, when it has well entered this chamber, the cutting edge is directed up- wards and forwards, and being thrust onwards steadily, with a firm hand, so as not too quickly to evacuate the aqueous humour, is made to cut, aided perhaps by slight sawing movements up and down, rather vertically (not by making a counter puncture, as some recommend) as far along the extreme margin of the .M cornea or sclerotic as the length of the incision is to be made, at least one- sixth of the circumference. The knife, as it is withdrawn, is then brought once more with its point directed towards the centre of the chamber, so as to make a similar square extremity of the incision, to the end at which it was begun.* Then, as in the excision-operation for artificial pupil, the fine curved iris- forceps is introduced, and the toothed points opened in the anterior chamber (unless the iris have prolapsed, with the flow of aqueous humour, when the corneal wound was completed) widely enough to seize a rather large portion of the iris. This is then drawn fully out, and is first cut through with the iris- scissors vertically on the right side ; then, the blades of the scissors being held flat on the surface of the globe, it is divided along its ciliary attachment, close to the opening into the anterior chamber, and, lastly, it is separated altogether by another vertical cut. The operation is then complete. If much bleeding into the anterior chamber occur, the blood must be, if possible, coaxed out in one way or another, before it has formed a clot. The point of the curette between the lips of the wound, or on its posterior lip, may do this ; or the blood may be pressed out with the convex back surface of the same instrument, by passing it, wet with tears so as not to abrade the epithelium, from below up- wards over the front surface of the cornea ; or, by gently pressing back the wire- speculum upon the eye, it may be squeezed out. If there be bleeding, however, some blood will probably be left, and cannot be removed. The eye is tied up with some lint, wet or dry, over it, and a bandage is applied over both eyes. Diagnosis of Glaucoma.—In the diagnosis of a case of glaucoma, much stress must not be laid on the meaning of the word—the sea-green colour in question is often not at all seen in the reflected light from behind the pupil. The chief diagnostic signs are these :—1. Tension in excess—varying from the least degree T. 1, to a stony hardness, T. 3. It is appreciated by the two forefingers, used much as in trying elsewhere to discover the existence of deep-seated pus, the patient looking down and gently closing the lid?; or the amount of tension may be appreciated by the eye, as well as by the touch, by placing the point of the « This method of making preliminary corneal incisions in proferonco to thnso made with tho thrust of a keratomo or the oounter-punoturatlon of Von Gritfc* knife (see Cataract pago 869) has, 1 am glad to find, boon adopted on principle by some of my colleagues since the last edition of thio work.