LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: StitACts, ftlifoAUj CoUieh'oA ^ ^Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https ://archive.org/details/b21534172_0002O F THEORY and PRACTICE O F PHTSIC AND SURGERE B Y JOHN AITKEN, M. D. Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons; one of the Sur- geons of the Royal Infirmary; Member of the Royal Medical Society—of Edinburgh; Member of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland; Lecturer on the Practice of Physic; and on Anatomy, Surgery, and Chemistry. IN TWO VOLUMES. VOLUME II. LONDON: 1782,n i S' I > Df , \A Vol. II. ELEMENTS O F S U R G E R T. nosology. 771. THE principal forms or modifica* tions of local difelfe (41.), the fubject of chirurgical nofology (70.), may be fyfte- matically arranged under five heads, or rather are five, 1. Swelling. 2. Dislocation. 3. Division. 4. Deformity. 5. Obstruction.ELEMENTS of 2 I. SWELLING. Appellations. Tumor. Phyma. Tuber. Excrescentia. Extuberantia. Tumor protuberans. Morbus tumidosus. Tumeur. Excrescence. Tumour. Excrescence. ' Unnaeu Definition. 772. Morbid increafe of the bulk of any part of the animal body *. * Tumor—Partis magnitude) aufta fine phlogofi. Cullenus. Tumor—Tumorem medici id appellant, quicquid- jn hnmano corpore contra naturam increfcit vel intit* mefeit. Heisterus.. Tumor — Morbofutn vol'uminis augmentum in parte organica. Cujus materiem fiftit fluidum omne sum naturale, cuiu praeternaturale, congefium, com-SURGERY. 2* Varieties, 573. Swelling (772.), a numerous form or modification of difeafe (771.), is, 1. Humoral. 2. Solid, pactum, coagulatum, concretum, induratum : Sub» jedtum vero effe pored quae libet pars cavo praedita adque recipiendum fluid urn apta. Callissen. Phyma—Tumor humoralis, notabilis folitarius. Sauvagesius. Phyma—TumGr humoralis folitarius. Saga- rus. Tuber—Tumor partium folidarura non hydropi- cus. Sauvagesius. Tuber—Tumor partium folidarum externus non hydropicus, cahexia. SaGarus. Excrescent 1 a —Tumor a folidus adaudtis, iij. dolens, Jente crefcens in fuppuratiqnein non abiens. Sauvagesius. Excrescentia — Tumor a foiidis adaudtis per fuccum nutritium copiofiorem advedtum, &c. in hunc converfum. Sagarus. Extuberantia—Extuberantia fuper cutem emi- net; tumor intra aut fubter earn exiflit. Voge- LI US. A 2 lELEMENTS of 4 Humoral Swelling. Appellations. Tumor humoralis. Tumeur humeural. Definition. 774. Swelling (772.) conftituted by hu- moral or fluid parts of the animal body. 775. Humoral fwelling, (774.) according to circumftances, admits of divifion. into, 1. Infia7nedfwelling, or inflammation. 2. Frigid, or not-infiamcd fwelling. Inflammation. Appellations. Phlegmone. Phlogosis. Phlegmasia. Tumor phlogisticus. Morbus febrilis phlogisticus. Linnaei. Febris continua composita, in- flam MATO ri a. Vogelii.SURGERY. 5 Morbus acutus febrilis. Bcerbav. Ffbris inflammatoria. Hojfman. Inflammatio. Inflamed swelling. Inflammation. Phlegm as y. Phlegmon. Wifeman. Definition. 776. Swelling (772.) varioufly elevated and circumfcribed ; according to fitua- tion vifible or not; always marked by morbid tenflon and fenflbility producing acute, lancinating, pulfatory, or throbbing pain; augmented heat; vivid rednefs: in advanced progrefs, it is often livid, fome- what pointed, and foft about its centre; defquamation and proportional fympto- matic (691.) inflammatory fever (462.) are often perceptible *. * Phlegmonf.—Tumor fpheroideus, rubore ca- lore, tenfione, dolore pulfatili infignis, l’ponte in fup- purationem vergens. Sauvagesius. Phlegmone—Qiiaecunque hominis pars calore in- tenfo, molefto, et dolorifico afficiatur, maxime fi tenfio, rubor, et tumor, fimul adfint, ea inflamma- ta dicitur ; Ejufque ftatu% Graecis phlogofis a phlego Uro, Latinis inflammatio a fenfu Jlami?iqe caloris, nun- ?upatur. Sauvagesius.$ ELEMENTS of 777. Inflammation (776.), whether oc- curring as an idiopathic (43.) or fymp- Phlegmone—Febris ex partis externae tumore pulfatono, rubore tenfivo, calente. Linnaeus. Phlegmone—Tumor dolens, renitens, inflamma- torius, cum rubofe, ovi faltem gallinacei magnitu- dine. Vogelius. Phlegmone—Cognofcimus phlegmonem ex febre acuta, continua, inflammatoria, pulfu duro, fanguine crufta inflammatoria tecfto, et partis externae in- flammatione. Pars externa phlegmone affecta calet, rubet, dolet, tumet, eft fimul tenfa, refplendens, fphaeroidea ; cutis ipfa et partes Tub ipfa contentae inflammatae funt ; phlegmone in fuppurationem ten- dit, neutiquam vero eryfipelas. Sagarus. Phlegmone—Rubore vivido, tumore circumfcrip- to, in faftigium plerumque elevato, faepe in apoftema abeunte ; dolore faepe pulfatili. Cullenus. Phlegmone—Omnem inflammationem, faepe ta- men, earn fignificat quae externas corporis fedes in- feftat. Eft tumor cum inflammatione, latus, pro- fundus, aequalis, et qui potiflimum adipem occupat, Platnerus. Species of Phlegmone, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Phlegmone mammarum. Majlodynia. Pail. 2. Phlegmone oculi. • Ophthalmia interna.SURGERY. 7 toniatic (44.) affe&ion, has juftly ever 3. Phlegmone teftis. Gonorrhee tombee dans les bourfes. 4. Phlegmone mufculorum. Tumor phlegmondes. 5. Phlegmone axillaris. Bubo axillaris. 6. Phlegmone tefticuli. Riverii. Phlogosis—JEJlus volaticus — Subitus fugaxque aeflus, cum rubore faciei. Vogelius. Phlogosis—Pyrexia, partis externae rubor, ca- Ior, et tenfio dolens. Cullenus. Phlegmasia—Pyrexia continua vel remittens cum interna infl'ammatione, vel ciun exanthematis, Sauvagesius. Phlegmasia—Phlegmone. Sagarus. Phlegmasia — Febris fynocha ; phlogofis, vel dolor topicus, fimul laefa partis internae fun&ione ; fanguis mifTus et jam concretus fuperficiem coriaceam albam oftendens. Cullenus. N. Phlegmafia membranofa et parenchymatofa eft. Inflammatio—Sanguis obftru&is in vafis. Tu- mor tenfus, calidus, rubens, pulfans, dolens. Lin- naeus. Inflammatio—Tumor fphaei^oideus rubore, ca- lore, tenlione, dolore pulfatili infignis, folitarius, p!e- vumque fat extenfus, in fuppurationem fponte ver-ELEMENTS op 8 been deemed a mod important object of attention *. gens; eryfipelas non fuppurat, et phlegmone habei; Temper pyrexiam conjundam manifeftam ; inflamma- tio faepius in phlegmone tranfit ; vel phlegmone eft gradus major inflammationis. Sagarus. InFLAMMATIO—EhlogoflS. CtJLLENUS. Inflammatio—Motus audus fanguinis in cor- pore vivo, quo fuccus in minimis arteriis partium mol- lium quiefcens, majore vi agitatur, nt is vel mobilis reddi, vel in pus verti queat. Ejus notae funt qua- tuor ; rubor et tumor, cum calore et dolore. Plat- NERUS. Inflammatio — Inflammatio, ignis, phlegmone, ob catifae et effeduum fimilitudinem, ab igne nomen habet. Eftque fanguinis rubri arteriofi in minimis ca- nalibusftagnantis preflio et attritus a motureliqui fan- guinis mod, et per febrem fortius adi. Boerhav. Inflammation—A large tumour, hot, of a red Colour, with pain, pulfation, tenfion, and a circum- fcribed hardnefs. Wiseman. # Chirurgiae operam daturo valde neceflaria eft inflammationis notitia : nam fi externae fedes inflam- mantur, requiri folet chirurgorum opera. Ex in- flammatione etiam variae noxae nafcuntur, quarum plures ferramentorum operam defiderant. Nec vul- nera, turn quae chirurgus accipit, turn quae facit fine ilia efle queant ; quae fi iucrebrefcit, magna pericula adfert. Saepe ea quoque tumores ulcera, Iuxata, fradaque occupat. Platneri Inflitut. Chirurg. § 28.SURGERY. 9 Diagnojlic. 775. It will readily appear from the defi- nition of inflammation (772.), that, the principal fymptoms which conllitute its diagnoftic (69.) are, 1. Pam or a morbid augmentation of fenfibility, produdti ve of puliation, or throb- bing, or increafed arterial action. This is a prime fymptom (67.). 2. Swellmg, morbid tUmefadtion or ten- fion. This is proportioned to the former fymptom, and confilts in a morbid deter- mination and congeftion of the fluids (21.), fometimes named fluxioji *. This is not apparent till the affedtion has exified fome time, it is therefore a fecondary fymptom (68.). 3. Heat or inflammatory temperature, diflinguilhable by the touch or thermo- meter, is a fymptom that has given name to the affedtion in queftion, it is confe- quent in a great meafure to the fymp- toms enumerated, and is therefore fe- condary (68.). * See Wiseman’s Surgery, vol. 1. p, 26. etpnjjim, VOL. II. JB tso ELEMENTS of 1 4. Rednefs or alteration of the healthful colour. This fymptom is proportioned to the fwelling. It feems not to be a prime one (67.). 5. Shudder mg (156.) often precedes or attends the acceflion of the enumerated fymptoms of inflammation. This fymp- tom, although it appears early in the in- flammatory train, is, in all probability, fecondary (68.). Progrefr. 776. Inflammation, (772.) palpable or vifible, is at firfl: comparatively fmall, uni- formly hard ; rapidly acquiring greater ex- tent, it foon becomes fomewhat foft about its middle part. The pain, at this period is fenfibly diminiflied. Stages. 777. The defcribed progrefs (776.) of inflammation (772.) points out a divifiois into two ftages; they may be named, 1. Adhae/ive inflammation. Z. EffuCive inflajnmation.li SURGERY. % Adhaesive Inflammation. Definition. • 778. Inflammation (772.) from its com- mencement while its confluence is e- quable. 779. The ftage of inflammatory exift- ence (772.), thus defined (778.), is named adhaefive, becaufe contiguous parts aifecft- ed by it are obferved readily to adhere and fuifer concretion or union. Effusive Inflammation. Definition. 580. Inflammation (772.) tending to foftnefs (776.), and proportionally giving a humoral perception, named fluctuation; effiifion of the fluids from their vef- fels, or extravafation having taken place. B 2ELEMENTS of ra !Terminations. 781. Inflammation (772.) may attain one of three terminations, named, 1. Difcujfion. 2. Suppuration. 3. Mortification * Inflammatio varium habet exitum. Nam qqi- efcens humor vel refolvitur, vel orta fuppuratioue in pus vertitur, vel mflammatio degeueratin gangraenhm et fcirrhum. Ex gangraena facilis tranfitus eft in pphacelum, ex fcirrho in cancrum. Si vulnus et ab- fceffus male cedunt aut non refte, aut negligenter curantur, ex iis ulcus oritur, ex ulcere fijlula. Sine ulla noxa inflammatio tollitur,_y? ilia refolvitur. Hoc fieri poteft, fi quiefcens et obflrtiftionem effi- ciens humor, au£ta ilia vitali cordis et nervorum ac- ti'one, et a fanguine a tergo veniente commotus, ite- rum abripitur, et mobilis redditus circumeuntibus hu- moribus admifcetur. Haec curatio locum habet fi pa- rum humori-quiefcit, inflammato nec magna nec pro- funda eft, fi vafa nondum rupta 1'unt, li ipfe humor malus putrifque non tft, nec vafa erodit. Si fanguis aliquantum, aft non nimis vehementer agitatur, nec febris ingentem fervorem habet. Si praeterea ipfa pars inflammata nec nimium rigida et contrafta, nec 3axa et foluta. PlaTNERI Injlit. Chirurg § 52, 53. Omnem inflammationem five internam five exter- nam vel refolvendo exfudandove; fuppurmido demum ct gangraena et fcirrho terminari pro varietate partis %SURGERY. *3 I. Discussion. Appellations. Resolutio. Platner. Exudatio. Discussio. Resolution. Exudation. Healing by the first inten- tion. Definition. 782. Difappearance of die fymptomsof inflammation (772.), generally, with full return of function of the parts it occupied. 783. Difcuflion (782.) of inflammation, a termination which has been named exu- dation *, or at lead comprehends it, takes affectae pro variaque indole materiae peccantis, omni- bus notum eft. De Meza Comp end. dried. PraEl. fafcicul. alter. § 22. * Befides thefe already mentioned, I believe there is another manner ftill in which inflammation termi- nates. When the internal parts are affefted with in- flammation, there occurs almoft always upon theirI *4. ELEMENTS of place moft commonly during its adhaeflve ftage (778.), or before much effuflon has acceded. Pus. Appellation. Purulent matter, Dejinition, 784. A mild, whitifli, cream-like fluid, generated by inflammation (772.) *. • r furface an exudation, which appears partly in a vifeid concretion upon their furface, and partly in a thin ferous fluid effufed into thd cavities in which the in- flamed vifcera are placed. Though thefe appearances accompany very conftantly thofe inflammations that have proved fatal, it is, however, probable, that like circumftances may attend thefe inflammations termi- nated by refolution. and may contribute to that event, as there are inftai ces of pneumonic inflammations ter- minated in hydrothorax. Dr Cullen’s Practice of Phjfc, § 256. « * Pus albidum efl ; crafliim vero quia calore den* fatur. PlaTNER. Inflit. Chirurg. § 54.II. Suppuration. Appellations. SUPPU RATIO* PURULENTI A. Imposthumation. Purulent Process. Effusive inflammation. Suppurative inflammation. PURULENCE. Boiling. Definition. 785. Inflammation (772.) producing purulent matter (784.). Imposthume. Appellations. Abscessus. Apostema. Pustula. Absces. Aposteme.\ 16 ELEMENTS of Depot. Apostem. Abscess. Boil. Definition. 786. A collection of purulent matter (784.) concealed by the integuments *. * Abscessus—Inflammatio fuppurata in pus col- legia. Tumor tenfus, calidus, ruber, pulfans, dolens. Linnaeus. Abscessus—Colledlae in inflammato loco materiae in pus aut in alienam fubftantiam converfio. Vo- GELIUS. Apostema—Cyftis purulenta. Sauvagestus. Apostema—Cyftis purulenta, vel ichorofo-puru- lenta ; nofcitur ex flu&uatione, praegrefla inflam ma- tione, albedine, remiffione doloriset pulfationis. Sa» GARUS. Apostema—Poll phlogofin, remittentibus dolore et pulfatione, tumor albefcens, mollis, fluftuans, pru- riens. Cullenus. Pustula—Veficula purulenta, turgens, dehifcens pure. Linnaeus. Imposthume—A collection of purulent matter in a bag or cyft. Johnson’s Dictionary.I SURGERY. 17 787. Impofthume (786.) is detected by inflammation (776*) becoming foftifh about its centre, by exhibiting fluctuation (580.), and commonly by a remiflion of the inflammatory pain (775.) and the fub- ftitution of an itching one, or prurience. Species of Apoftema, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Apoftema abfceflus. Abfccs apofthume. Callor. 2. Apoftema apoftafis. Depot. Gallor. 3. Apoftema fynchyfis. Dijfolutio vitrei , Oeil fotidu. 4. Apoftema hypopyum, Cali go ab hypopyo. 5. Apoftema diapyefis. Ca/igo a diapyeft. 6. Apoftema onyx. Co.hgo ab ungue. 7. Apoftema a paroulis. Parulis. Sennert. 8. Apoftema empyocele. , Apoftema tefticuli vel fcroti. 9. Apoftema fpina ventofa. Apoftema oftftum. 10. Apoftema vomica. 11. Apoftema phalangum. Fourchcs. Vol. II. cELEMENTS of t8 I III. Mortification', Appellations. Mortificatio. Gangraena. Sphacelus. Sphacelismus. Spiiacelatio. Gangraene humide, Gangraene. Sphacelation. Putrefaction. Corruption. Rottenness. Partial deaths Definition. 788. Inflammation (776.) become more' or lefs livid, black and foetid, with propor- tional lofs of fenfibility, heat, and tone; re- paration of the fcarf-Ikin into veflcation filled with fanies is often to be mark- ed * Gangraena—Initio mortis partis, deinceps pu. trida folutio. Sauvagesips.J9 SURGERY. C 2 Suppofed Termination. " 789. Induration, or, as fome chufe to call it, fcirrhus *, has been reputed to be * See Scirrhus. Gangraena—Inflammatio S. fuppuratio laJTocata, mortua ferpens in -tunica cejlulofa. Cntis'livens, mol. Jiufcula, putris, cum veficulis fub epidermide ; fer- pente vitio jnargine fubinflammato ardente. Lin- naeus. ? Sphacelus—Gangraena omnium folidorum partis. Mortificatio putrida ad offa penetrans, indolens, pro- perans. Linnaeus. -/ Gangraena—Inflammatae partis livor, et mor- tificatio foetida, cum puftulis icjhorofis ; ienfus doloris hebes. Vogeliuj. Sphacelus—Perfe&a mortificatio, qua pars fenfum, motum, mnatum calorem, tota amilit; fitque prorfus nigra, mollis, putris, et cadaverofa. Vogelius. Gangraena — Anaefihefia, immobilitas, frigus^ phlyftenae lympham continentes, flacciditas, lividitas, et partis mors in cute et membrana celluiofa, vel in omnibus ad offa ufque, textus facilis laceratio et dif- Jolutio putrida, cum foetore cadaverol’o, definiunt hop genus. Sagarus. Gangraena—Pod phlogofin, pars livens, mollis, parum fenfibilis, faepe cum veficulis ichorofis, Cul- LENUS.ELEMENTS o* 20 a fourth termination (781.) of inflamma-* Sphacelus — Port gangraenam pars nigricans, flaccida, facile lacerabilis, fine fenfu vel calore, et rum foetore carnis putridae ; vitio celeriter ferpente. CULLENUS. Species of Gangraena, according to Sauyages, are, 1. Gangraena a contuflone. djjuefnay. 2. Gangraena ab infiltratione. Ejufdem. 3. Gangraena ab ftrangulatione. Ejufdem. 4. Gangraena a veneno. Ejufdem. <?. Gangraena ab'inflammatione. Ejufdem. 6. Gangraena ex ambultione. Ejufdem. 7. Gangraena a gelu. Ejufdem. Gangraena a nimio frigore. Vandermonde. 3 Gangraena a put redine, djhiefnay. Gangraena—Ouiefdtin afFecta narte ornnis dolor, peritque fenfus, tumor rnmuitur, color vero ex rubro in pallidum et liddum mutatur, putredine interea ultro procedente Platnerus. Sphacelus—Fx gangraena fphacelus oritur, fi membrum penitus ad os ufque emortnum, et line omni fenfu motuque. Platnerus Gangrene—I he actual coming on of gangrene may be perceived by the colour of the inflamed part changing from a clear to a dark red ; by blilters ariflng upon the part ; by the part becoming foft, flaccid, and infenfible ; and by the ceating of all pain as thefe appearances take place. Dr Cullen’s Prac- tice of Phyfc, § 251.SURGERY. 21 tion (776.) *, obfervation feems to prove, that, fcirrhus may be generated witliout inflammation (776.), at leafl;, in any re- markable degree. If at any time a con- nection can be traced, the inflammation may only furniih a predifpofition. It cannot be confldered as a part of the in- flammatory progrefs analogous to fuppura- tion (786.) and mortification (788.) f. Sphacelus—As the gangrene proceeds, the co- lour of the part becomes livid, and, by degrees, quite black ; the heat of the part entirely ceafes ; the foftnefs and flaccidity of the part increafes, it lofes its confidence, exhales a cadaverous fmell, and may then be confldered as a deeded with fphacelus. Dr Cullen’s Practice of Phyfic, § 252. * * See quotations refpeciing inflammation above. See Homii Princip. Medicinae de Scirrho. f Scirrhus—That is, an indolent hardnefs of the part formerly affected by inflammation, is a rare occurrence, and does not feem fo much to depend upon the nature of inflammation as upon the circum- ftances of the part affected. Scirrhus more readily arifes from other caufes, which it is fooner or later apt to do. It does not fo commonly increafe as change feirrhofity into fome kind of abfeefs. Dr Cullen’^ Practice of Phsfc, § 253.ELEMENTS of 22 Dredifponent Caufe. 790. The principal predifponent caufe (58.) to inflammation (776.) is the fan- guine temperament, or plethoric habit (139.), connedled with great vigour of the moving folids; circumftances which have been fpecified, as principally conflituting the phlogiftic date (464.) : always to be re- garded as very different and remote from adtual inflammation. Occafional Caufe. 791. In general, flimulant (120.) or ir- ritating applications of every kind may be- come the occafional caufe (61.) of inflam- mation (776.). 792. Inflaming applications (791.) may adl chemically or mechanically, or in both thefe ways. Chemical Inflaming Applications. Definition. 793. Applications capable to excite in- flammation (77 6.), by adding to, or abftra<fl>ing from, the living compofition (15.), in confeqnence of attraction, or other qua- lities, independently of bulk, lhape, or im- pulfe. 794. Among chemical exciting c'aufis (793.) of inflammation (776.), the follow- ing maintain an eminent iituation, 1. Fire—its diminution is cold. 2. Salt. 3. Foifon of various kinds—variolous, fyphilitic, l$c. 4. Acrimony, or acrid matter in general. Mechanical Inflaming Applications. Definition. 795. Applications capable to excite in- ? flammation (776.), by bulk, lhape, or im- pulfe. 796. The principal mechanical caufes exciting (795.) inflammation, generally de- nominated foreign or extraneous bodies by furgeons, are, 1. Metal, 2. Wood. 3. Stone.24 ELE M,.E N T S o F \ 4. Glafs. 5. Cloth. 6* BotiCj &c. 797. It is not difficult to conceive, that, tfle fame application may prove an exciting caufe (791.) of inflammation (776.), by adding as well chemically (793.) as mecha- nically (795.) * * The remote caufes of inflammation may be re- duced to four heads. 1. The application of ftimulant fubftances, among which are to be reckoned the action of fire or burn- ing. 2. External violence operating mechanically in wounding, bruifmg, or over-ftretching the parts. 3. Extraneous fubflances lodged in any part of the body, though they be neither of an acrid qua- lity, nor cf a pointed form. 4. Cold in a certain degree, not fufficient immed'w ately to produce gangrene. It will not be difficult to underhand how thefe re- mote ctufes, fmgly, or in concurrence, produce the proximate caufe of inflammation. Dr Cullen’s Practice of Phyfc, § 252. Praedifponunt vero ad inflammationes plethora,' robor et vaforum rigiditas, aetas juvenilis et virilis, temperamentum cholericum, nec non cacochymia va- ria. Gingendo morbo autem favent frigus vehemens, vala conftringens, fanguinemque condenfans, color maxim us, humidiora diffipans, inde et omne's evacua-SURGERY*- 25 798. The influence of the occafional caufe(79i.) of inflammation (776.) is often fo powerful as to require no co-operation from peculiar predifpofition (790.): the af- fection thus induced,' by fome, has been named pajjive inflammation, probably for thecaule, that haemorrhage (137.), in cer- tain circumftances, is fo denominated. Seat of Inflammation. 799. Obfervation teaches, that inflam- mation (776.) may occupy any part of the living (25.) animal (23.) body; that, the molt lenfible or impreflible are moft obnoxious to it—the integuments, the mufcular ftrucflure: and, that, the preva- lence of the cellular texture favours the ac- ceflion of fuppuration (785.). tiones ferofae profufiores. Acria quaecunque, ftimu- lantia five applicara live ingefia venena, fpirittis fer- mentati potufque frigidus aeiluante corpore. Praeter frictiones fortes, vulnera, fracturas, luxationes, con- tufiones, punduras, ligaturas ar£te appoiitas, com- prefliones, dillorliones, combultioues ; balnea et fri- gida et calida. Fit qtioque inflammatio metaftatica per tranllationem materiae morbofae ad hunc vel il- ium locum. De Meza Compend. Medlcum Idracl'icum, fafclcul. alter. § 4. VOL. II. DELEMENTS of Proximate Caufe. 8Go. Authors are generally agreed con- cerning the remote caufe (790, 79?.) of in- flammation ; but this is far from being the Cafe with refpedt to its proximate one (64.0- 801. Many arguments may be dated to evince, that a fpecific alteration, induced by its remote caufe (800.) in the ultimate ftrudture (15.) of the parts affedted by in- flammation (776.) is its proximate one; and, that, from this refult,the alteration of func- tion, and all its other fymptoms ; mod of which may be viewed as the proximate caufe become apparent. Suppofed proximate Caufes. 802. Stagnation of the blood in the ex- treme arteries or velfels, difturbing its cir- culation proportionally, and creating irri- tation, has been reputed by a celebrated fchool as the proximate caufe (64.) of in- flammation (776.) *. * Boerhaavii Aphorifm. § 370,27 SURGERY. 803. Although ftagnation (802.) fhould be admitted to be a circumftance attend- ing inflammation (776.), it is as likely to be an effect as cL caufe. The known occa^- flonal caufe (791.) does not feem well cal- culated to produce the fuppofed proximate one in question. 804. Spcifm of the extreme blood veflels, generated by the vis medicatrix naturae to relieve the Jlimulus of local congefion of the blood refulting from its unequal difribu- tion, and fupporting their increafed a ft ion, has been propofed, and ftrenuoufly de- fended, as the proximate caufe (64.) of inflammation (776.) *. w Omnes quotquot funt inftainmationum diverfae fpe- cies oriuntur a ftafi vel ftagnatione pa'rtnularum fan-i guinis rubrarum, rn vafis minimis vel ferofis haeren- tium, fluidorum tranfnum im'pedierrtium, et irrita- tionem pruducentium. Hinc omnes corporis partes, praecipuae glanddlae et membrana cellularis, ftjfium obnoxiae funt. HoMii Princip. Median, pars 3. § n * From the do&rine of fever we are led to be- lieve, that an increafed action of the heart and ar- teries is not fupported for any length of time by any other means than a ipalm affeiifing the extreme vef- lels; and, that, the fame fnafm takes place in inflairi- D 228 ELEMENTS of 805. The idea of the proximate caufe of inflammation now recited (804.), in- mation feems probable from hence, that every con- fiderable inflammation is introduced by a cold ftage, and is accompanied with that and the other circum- ftances of pyrexia j and it feems alfo probable, that fomething analogous to this occurs even in the cafe of thofe inflammations which feem lefs confulerable, and to be purely topical. From all this, the nature of inflammation may be often explained in the following manner. borne caufes of inequality in the diftribution of the blood may throw an unufual quantity ol it upon particular veflels, to which it muft neceflarily prove a Aimulus. But, further, it is probable, that, to relieve the congeftion, the vis medicatrix naturae increafes Hill more the adtion of thefe veflels, which it eftedts by the formation of a fpafm in their extremities, as in all other febrile difeafe^ A fpafm, therefore, of the extreme veflels, fupjmrt- ing an increafed adflon in the courfe of the fame, may be confidered as the proximate caufe of inflammation, at leaf in all cafes not ariftng from direct ftimuli ap- plied. That, in inflammation, there is the concurrence of a copflriftion of the extreme veflels with an increafed adhon in the other parts of them, feems probable from the confideration of rheumatifm. This is a fpe- cies of inflammation which is often manifleftly produ- ce1 either by cold applied to over diflended veflels, or by caufes of an increafed impetus, and over diflen- fion in veflels previoufly conflridted. Hence, the dif«SURGERY. 29 dependently of its being exceedingly com- pounded and involved, and its adoption, eafe efpecially appears at feafons liable to frequent and confiderable viciflitudes of heat and cold. To this we may add, that the parts of the body moll frequently affedted with inflammation, are thofe expofed both to over diftenfion from a change in the diftribution of the fluids, and at the fame time to the immediate adtion of cold. Hence quinfies and pneumo- nic inflammations are more frequent than any other. That a fpafm of the extreme vdlels takes place in inflammations, we prefume further from what is at the fame time the ftate of the whole arterial fyftem. In every conliderable inflammation, though arifing in one part only, an affedtion is communicated to the whole fyftem, in confequence of which an inflamma- tion is readily produced in other parts befides that firft affected. This general affedtion is well known to phyfleians under the name of Diathesis Phlogi- stic a. It appears moft commonly in perfons of the mod rigid fibres ; is often manifeftly induced by the tonic or altringent powers of cold ; is increal'ed by all tonic and ftimulant powers applied to the body ; is always attended with a hardnefs of the pulfe ; and is moft ef- fectually taken off by the relaxing power of blood- letting. From thefe circumftances it feems probable, that the diathefis phlogiftica coniifts in an increafed tone, or contractility, and perhaps contraction of the mufcular fibres of the whole arterial fyftem. buch 2 flate of the fyftem prefumes a fpafm of the extreme veflels ; and the general ftate commonly arifes from that begun in a part; though it be alfo probable, that the general ftate may arife and fubfift, for fame30 ELEMENTS of of courfe, repugnant to the fimplicity of philofophy (io.), fuppofes a morbid Hate —local congeflion—pre-exifting, without af- figning any caufe, remote or proximate, for it. 806. The fpafm (admitting its exiftence), fo efficient in the laft mentioned fuppofed proximate caufe (804.) of inflammation (776.), carefully regarded, may perhaps appear to be only a fymptom, or rather to be another name for its pulfatory pain (775*)* Indeed, the inadequatenefs of the whole of it as to general application, is, in a great meafure, admitted by its celebra- ted author. Proposition IV. 807. Inflammation (776-) is one and. the flame ajfeBion in its efl'ence or nature univcr- flallU flujflering accidental variations in its re- time, without the obvious inflammation of any parti- cular parts. We have thus endeavoured, in the cafe of inflam- mation, to explain the ftate of the whole fvftem, as •well as that of the part more particularly affetted, and this laft as in its firft formation. Dr Cullen’s PraR* of Phylic, § 238. &c.SU R G E R Y. 3J fult, according to the fate of the organization itfrizes. * - ■ Demonf ration. 808. The propofition announced (807.) is fupported by experience, and verified by analogy *. I 809. Whatever theory reflecting the proximate caufe (64.) of inflammation. (776.) be adopted, it feems by no means ambiguous, that, the fwelling, rednefs, eC* fential to this affection, refiilt greatly from the red part of the blood being urged into veflels, which, in the healthful Rate, deny it accefs, a circumflance named error loci. *. * We cannot perceive, that, in different cafes of inflammation, there is any difference in the flare of the proximate caufe, except in the ciegree ; and though fome difference of inflammation may arife from the difference of its remote caufes, tills is not necefl'ary to be taken notice of here ; becaufe the different appearances which attend different inflam- mations, may be referred, for the moff parr, to the difference of the part affefted. Dr Cullen’s Prncl. of Pbyftc, § 255. * Si fanguis in eas vehas, quae fpiritui accommo- datae funt, transfunditur, et inflammationem, quam32 ELEMENTS of Prognojiic. 81 o. Of the three fpecified terminations of inflammation, difcuflion (782.), fuppu- ration (785.), and mortification expe- rience fhews, that, the firfl is more fa- vourable to recovery than the fecond, and this than the third; and, that, thefe accede refpetflively in proportion to the quantity, and in fome degree to the fltua- tion of the affedlion ; the confequent dan- ger is therefore to be eftimated from thefe circumftances ; the age and habit of the patient may be taken into calculation *. Graeci ipKtypom nominant, excitat, eaque inflamma- tio talem motum efficit, qualis in febre eft, ut Erasi- STrato placuit. Cels, de Medicina, lib. 1. * The prognoftic ('reflecting inflammation) is found- ed on a previous knowledge of the intenfenefs of the eaufe producing it, the importance of the part affeft- ed, habit of body, and fex of the patient. Thus in- flammations fucceeding to V'ounds, fra&ures, luxa- tions, operations, except the fymptoms run high, do not alarm us, as being no more than what ought to be expefted. Thofe proceeding from extraneous fub- ftances, fubfide in general on their being extracted ; unlefs the wound is confiderable, or the patient of an irritable habit of body. But wc ever find, that, afterVol. 11. E . Cure. 811. The healing management bf in- flammation will obvioufly admit of fome diversity, according to the tendency it may have manifefted, and the progrefs it may have made at the time, medical efforts are directed againft it; eircumftances which fugged the expediency of confidering its care with refpecd to its various termina~ tions (781.). DifcuJJion. 812. Like that of other modifications of difeafe (136.), the cure of inflammation, l O) eratio is or injuries done on tenfe, membranous, or ligamentous parts, inflammations run higher, attended with more or lefs dilturbance in the general circulation and nervous fvltem. Inflammations that arife from in- ternal caule-., and fix on the internal parts, require par- ticular attention as to the method of treating them, be- ing often an effort of nature to throw out fomething hurtful to her, as we fee in eryfipelas, and in poxed, fcrophulous, and gouty patients; where the repelling of the inflammation would be of the word confe- quence, Sic. Lease’s Introduction to the Theory and Practice of Surgery, vol I. p. 29.» 34 ELEMENTS of efpecially carrying it to difcuflion (782.), (which in general is expedient), notwith- ftanding the diflention of authors j*, may f The indications of cure of inflammations are dif- ferent, according as it may be ftill capable of refolu- tion, or may have taken a tendency to the feveral other terminations. Its tendency to thofe laft is not always at firft: obvious; and therefore, upon the firft appearance of inflammation, the cure of it byrefolution is always to be attempted. The indications of cure for this purpofe are, 1. To remove the remote caufes, when they are evident, and continue to operate. 2. To take off the phlogiflic diathefis affedflng the whole fyftem, or the particular part. 3. To take off the fpafm of the particular part, by remedies applied to the whole fyltem, or to the part itfelf. Dr Cullen's Pracl. of Phyftc, § 259. Cure—The mod defirable termination, in general, of inflammation, is refolution, by which the integrity of the part affefted is preferved. This is brought about by Removing the caufe of the irritation : Taking off the irritability of the part: Moderating the intenfenefs of the ofcillarory mo- tion and impetus of the blood ; fo as that the exfuda- tion in the adjoining cellular membrane may be ab- forbed, or thrown out on the furface, the veffels be unloaded, a free circulation take place, and the ftate of the part become the fame as before. This event will much depend on our being called in early; other- wife very often it will not be in our power to pre-SURGERY. 35 be eftablifhed on two principles or indica- tions (99.), Supported by the preceding argumentation, and by experience. Indications of Cure. ..2:: •' Ji’ J■ c. . . -■ 813. The indications of cure (99.) of inflammation are, 1. Removal of caufes (790, 791.). 2. Alleviation of fymptoms (775.)* 814. Upon clofe and juft reflection, it will be granted, that the fpecified indica- tions of cure (812.) of inflammation (776.) fully comprehend every chalte application of medicine (89.) ; the utmoft effect of which .can only be the limiting and cir- cumfcribing, the derangement (801.), the direct reftoration of the healthful ftate (27.) of the ftruCture (15.)? and function affected by it, is the indifputed and pecu- liar province of the plaitic principle (73.). vent a fnppuration or even a gangrene from fuccecd- ing. Dease’s lutroduBion to the t heory and Practice of Surgery, vol. t. p. 30. r\ «*-- E 2 -9 : /: . 03* ELEMENTS os Antiphlogistic Remedies. Appellation. Auxilia antiphlogistica. Definition. 81-5-. Remedies (91.) calculated to counr tera6l inflammation (776.). Antiphlogistic Course. . Appellations. Regimen antiphlogisticum* Administrate antiphlogistica. Antiphlogistic regimen. Definition. 816. The proper application of antiphlo- giftic remedies (815.). * Firfi Indication. 817. The firfl; indication of cure (813.) 0f inflammation (776.) is of obvious ne»SURGERY. 37 Ce&ty towards difcuffion. (782.); Iid vain does medicine ftruggle to affedt the fnbver- flon of difeafe, while caufes are permit* ted to operate. ,, r n f: > 818. Under the firft healing indication (813.) of inflammation (776.), the remo- val of its occafional caufes (791.) fall chief- ly to be regarded ; becaufe that of its pre- difponent one (790.) is accornplifhed by- remedies enumerated under the fecond indication. humiQiityli i : 1 • ( r - ill 819. Mechanical occafional caufes (795-) of inflammation (776.) are removable with more or lefs facility, according to their tex- ture, form and fituation: ample fcopeis fre- quently afforded for the moft dexterous efforts of furgery (96.) guided by anato- my (16.). % 820. The abftradVion of chemical occa- flonal caufes (793.) of inflammation ( 776.) is always difficult, fometimes impradfi- cable. Their adlivity, in general,demands an inflantaneous attempt. Attention to chemical folubility and attradiion f may -f See AlThen’s Outlines of Ghe/njlry.ELEMENTS of 38 fuggeft procedure not lefs falutary than fcientific *. . ■ Second Indication. 82*. The alleviation of the fymptoms of inflammation (776.), or the circumfcrip- tion of its progrefs, the objedt of the fecond indication of healing (813.) is attainable by a proportioned and timeous application of antiphlogiftic remedies (815.), which, with refpedl to primary and inlfantaneous influence, at leaft, may be denominated, 1. General. 2. 'Topical. General Antiphlogistic Remedies. Dejinition. 822. Antiphlogiftic remedies (815.) whofe impreflion affedts the fyftem generally and more or lefs inftantaneoufly. * The means of removing the remote caufes will readily occur, from confidering the particular nature and fituation of the different kinds. Acrid matters muft be removed, or their adtion mull be prevented by the application of demulcents. Comprefling and39 SURGERY. i,T. • 'OI!) ;~r, • Topical Antiphlogistic Remedies. Definition. i f ' ■. ^ m • 823. Antiphlogiflic remedies (815.), whole imprefhon, for fome time at lead, is comparatively circumfcribed or local. General Antiphlogiflic Remedies. 824. The principal general antiphlo- gidic remedies (822.) are, 1. Blood-letting (116.) from a larger veffel, whether arterial or venous \. 2. Purging (108.), or excited intedinal fecretion and excretion. 3. Abdinence, or proportional fad- ing. 4. Dilution (411.), or a copious ufe of bland watery fluids. 5. Tepid bath (408.). 6. Cold, efpecially air of low tempera- ture (391.). overftretching powers muft be taken away ; and from their feveral circumftances, the means of doing fo will be obvious. Dr Cullen’s Pract. of Phyftc, § 260. A t See Arteriotomy and Phlebotomy.40 ELE MENTS o f 7. Anodynes (119.)? particularly opi- um. 825. The enumerated antiphlogiflic re- medies (824.), particularly blood-letting, adminiftered properly, according to cir- cumitances (die degree of fymptomatic fever (691.) * is a principal one), as expe- rience manifefts, never fail to produce fa- lutary effects, by circumfcribing inflam- mation, and giving the wilhed-for ten- dency to difcuflion (782.). 'Topical Antiphlogijlic Remedies. 1 . f 826. The moft notable topical antiphlo- giftic remedies (823.) are, 1. Blood-letting (116.) from the fmall veflels of the inflamed part f. 2. Tepid bath (408.)—poultice (410.) is the bell form J. * Febris confenfualis. Callissen. f See Topical Blood-letting. J A poultice or pultaceous medium, for the confti- tution of topical tepid bath, may be formed of vari- ous materials. To be fully pliant, and devoid of Si- mulant quality, are efienrial characters. Wheat-bread4* S U R G £ R V. 3* Co!d (794-)- 4. Anodynes (119.). Opium is the moft effectual. 827. Of the fpecified topical antiphlo-* giftic remedies (826.)^ the moft powerful is blood-letting (372.). The effetfts of poultice (410.), ever foothing and comfort- able, feem to be indifpeilfable, and may be fo managed as to promote topical bleeding (369.) *. ■ »——— ♦ 828. Inflammation (776.), local in a great meafure as to its effetfts, may be or wheat-flour properly blended and boiled with a due quantity of recent cow-milk, fo as to acquire due confluence, is a form, in general, eaflly procurable, and not inferior. The addition of butter or bland oil prevents its becoming hard, and hurtfully adhe- ring fo much and fo foon as otherwife would hap- pen. * The means of taking off the fpafm of an infla- med part are much the fame as thofe mentioned for taking off the fpafm of the extreme veflels in the cafe of fever. Only it is to be obferved, that topical bleedings are hOvfe efpccially indicated, and that fome Of the other remedies are to 'oe more exactly directed to the part particularly affedted. Dr Cullen’s Pratt, of Phsfic, § 262. VOL. II. FELEMENTS of 4* conduced to difcuflion (782.) by the in- fluence of the topical antiphlogiftic reme- dies (826.). 829. Inflammation (776.), fo confider- able in quantity as either to difturb the fyftem by its fymptomatic fever (691.), or likely to obtain ftich extenfion as to be able to do fo, juftly demands the com- bined operation of general (824.) and to- pical (826.) antiphlogiftic remedies. A11 early application is a circumftance fo preg- nant with utility as to merit every atten- tion, becaufe it is in general during adhe- five inflammation (778.) that difcuflion (782.) is practicable. 830. The general rule of conducting inflammation (776.) to difcuflion (782.) admits of few exceptions. When, it is ftrictly exanthematous (542.) or metafta.- tic and confequently critically connect- * Metastascs—-Tranflatio materiae morbificae a parte in-partem in qua alterius generis morbus produ- citur ; fie ex fontanella reficcata, ex materie arthritica repulfa, ex ichore cancrofb retento, fi alibi fuperve- niat, ophthalmia, hemiplegia, phthifis, &c. Morbi illi a prioribus diverli, per metajlnfim facli, feu mctajiatici.SURGERY. 43 cd with a pre-exifting morbid date, as bubo, &c. occurring during plague (554-)* this practice admits of doubt and hefi- . tation. 831. In fome lituations, the difcuflion of metaftatic inflammation (830.), may be effential to the prefervation of life. Suppuration. 832. It has been remarked (810.), that, fuppuration (785.), the fecond enumerated termination (781.) of inflammation (776.), is lefs fortunate than difcuflion (782.), be- caufe a proportional deftruction of organ (15.), and, by confequence, of its form and function, is a neceflary refult. 833. The formation of pus (784.), a procefs ever connected with and propor- tioned to inflammation (776.) feems to confift in a peculiar change which the ex- travafated part of the blood (22.) under- dicuntur; quod de fcabie reprefia, et iterum refum- pta, did non poteft. Sauvagesius./ 44 ELEMENTS or goes *. This may be analogous very pro- bably to fermentation f. 834. It has been rendered probable, that the red part of the blood (22.) extrava-. * I have already obferved, that the ferum of hu- man blood, upon {landing but a little time in the fur- nace, becomes turbid before it grows offenfive, and then gradually drops a fedimenr refembling di- gejled matter. This experiment was alfo frequently repeated with the fame fuccefs ; and I likewife took notice,, that this matter never changed its colour, or mixed again with the ferum. From thefe circum- ftances I conjeflure, that this fediment is a terreflrial fubitance, intended for the nouriihment or reparation of the folids. And I am the more inclined to this opinion, upon difcovering a like fediment in the urine of people in perfedl health, after long (landing ; as I confider this laft as either the redundance of the nu-, tritious matter, or what has been actually applied, but ceafes to be any longer of ufe. May we not therefore conclude, that the ferum is perpetually oozing into ulcers, but that, from the heat of the part, and the natural volatility of animal fluids, it is all quickly evaporated, excepting this mat- ter, that remains in the fore in the form of pus, and which is fo requifite in the cure. Sir John Pringle’s Experiments, &c. p. Si. See Afla Taurinenfta, vol. ii. in which many ex- periments to the fame effedl nearly with Sir John Pringle’s are recorded by Mr Gaber. J See AlTKEN’s Outlines of Chemifry.SURGERY. 45 fated, is either not convertible by inflam- mation (776.) into pus (784.) or only in imall proportion. 835. The cellular fubftance (and proba- bly other component parts) is often, and to a great degree melted and deftroyed by purulent inflammation (78 3.), and of courfe intermixed with the conftituent parts of pus (784.) *. 836. Suppuration (785.), the fjpontane- ous ifllie of inflammation (776.), not dif- appearing by difcuflion (782.) or mortifi- cation (788.), is, for the molt part, abun- I * In abfcefles, while the pus is formed of one part of the matter which had been effufed, the other and thinner parts are reabforbed ; fo that, in the abfcefs, when opened, a pus alone appears. This pus, how- ever, is not the converted gluten alone; for that con- verfion of this being the effect of a particular fermen- tation, which may affect the folid fubftance of the parts, and perhaps every folid of animal bodies, fo it moft readily and particularly affects the cellular texture, and thereby a great deal of this is eroded, and forms a part of the pus ; and it generally happens alfo, that fome of the fmaller red veffels are eroded, and fome red blood appears mixed with the pus in abfcefs. Upon the whole, the internal furface of an abfcefs is to be confidered as an ulcerated part. Dr CuLlen’s Pratt. of Phyfic, § 747*I 46 ELEMENTS op dantly rapid and extenhve, and requires therefore no promotion. Suppuratives. Appellations, SlJPPURANTIA. Maturantia. SUPPURANTS. Phlogistic cause. Definition. . ‘ . X 837. Matters promoting fuppuration (7 85-)- 838. All that feems indicated on the part of furgery (96.) during fuppuration (785.) is to ward off irritation, that, the purulent procefs may not be deftruflively extended. A due application of poultice (826.) has this effect. 839. The greateft part of the applica- tions, named fuppuratives (837.), polfefs no fuch character, a circumftance rather fortunate, according to inference, from what is premifed.SURGERY. 47 839. If it fhall be fuppofed to be a fa- lutary meafure at any time to promote fup- puration (785.), fubftituting fuppuratives (837.) in the Head of antiphlogiftic reme- dies (815.), is the obvious courfe. Nu- tritious aliment (103.) may be properly conjoined Spontaneous Rupture of Impofhume. 840. Rupture or burding of impofthume (786.) often happens fpontaneoully like * When a tendency to fuppuration is diftin&ly perceived, as we fuppofe it to depend upon the elfu- fion of a fluid which cannot be ealily reahforbed, fo it becomes necefiary that this fluid be converted into pus, as the only natural means of obtaining its-evacu- ation ; and as the eflufion is perhaps feldom made without fome rupture of the vefTels, to the healing of which a pus is abfolutely neceflarv ; lo, in the cale of a tendency to fuppuration, the indication of cure al- ways is to promote the production rf a perfeft pus as quickly as poflible. For this purpofe, various reme- dies, fuppofed to poflefs a fpecific power, have been propofed ; but we can perceive no fuch power in any of them ; and, in my opinion, all that can be done is, to favour the fuppuration by fuch applications, as m fupport a moderate heat in the part, as by fome te- nacity may confine the perfpiration of the part, and a?, by an emollient quality, may weaken the cohefiou-48 ELEMENTS of fuppuration (78 5'.), becaufe it depends on it. 841. It is highly probable, and not a little confonant to experience, that the rup- ture of impoflhume (840.), or the deftruc- tion of the containing parts, will happen at the point of its furface that is the leaft fupported ; becaufe fluids prefs equal- ly on all fides. 842. The circumftance peculiarly effi- cient in the rupture of impoilhume (840.) feems to be, 1. The mechanical ^ aflion of the con- 's. The chemical 3 fined matter. Artificial opening of Impoflhume. 843. In general, a fpontaneous rupture (840.) of impoflhume (786.) may be per- mitted. Formed, however, in or near or- gans of indifpenfable importance, whole fun&ion may be diflurbed or impaired by its maturation, an artificial opening * i» of the integuments, and favour their erofion. Dr Cullen’s Pratt. of Pbyfc, § 263. * See Oneotomy.49 SURGERY; fully warranted. The patient is peculiar- ly unfortunate when its fituation bars this practice ; becaufe, from magnitude as well as from rupturing in an unfavourable di- rection, and the pus acquiring a new fi- tuation, it may become additionally de- ftruCtive. And even when this is not the evpt, its detention and confinement kindles heCtic fever (693.), which too fre- quently is only terminated by the gradual diffolution of the deplorable fufferer. A fpeculation whether this is caufed by aCtual abforption, or irritation of pus, or both, is unproductive and unavailing. 844. Artificial opening (843.) of impoft- hume (844.) may be performed in three ways : 1 i Incifion *, or the ufe of the knife (128.). 2. Erofion*, ortheufeofcauftics(127.), 3. Seton *. 845. Each of the fpecified modes of opening impofthume (844.) may poffefs peculiar advantages. Incifion will pro- * See Operation Vol. IL GELEMENTS of 5° bably be found, in general, the leaft pain- ful and moft falutary method. 846. Theopening of impofthume (786.), however formed (844.), ought obvioufly to be proportional, rather large, and as much as may be dependent with refpeCt to the ft- tuation which the patient is likely to main- tain during the cure. 847. Impofthume (786.), whether open- ed fpontaneoufly or artificially (844.), may juftly be regarded as wound * under fup- puration (78^.), the pofterior cure is con- ducted accordingly. Mortification. 848. Mortification (788.) eflentially in- ferring the death (26.) of inflamed parts, and often accidentally that of the whole fyftem, is therefore the moft formidable termination (781.) that inflammation can aflume, and requires the moft decided and rigorous counteraction. 849. Sypmtoms, marking the tendency * See Wound.SURGERY. St to mortification (788.) as well as its ac- ceflion, have been recounted. 850. Mortification (788.) commonly ac* cedes during adhefive (788.), rarely during effufive (780.) inflammation. \ 851. Mortification (788.), amofl alarm- ing affection, feems, in general, to be caufed by excefs of inflammation (776.), which will ever be as its proximate caufe (801.). The vital (late (25.) being proporti- onally extinguifhed,vafcular action is dimi- nifhed or deflroyed, and as well the folid as fluid parts concerned are affedtedby corrup- tion, or the putrefcent fermentation *, like other dead animal matter: this truth the fymptoms demonftrate. 852. In fome cafes mortification (788.) is not preceded by inflammation (776.). By the powerful agency of exciting caufes (791.) vitality (25.) is extinguiihed, and rottennefs diredlly is confequent. * See Aijken’s Outlines of Chemijlry. G 21* ELEMENTS of Prognojlic. 853. That the fate of mortification (788.) depends on the degree of inflammation (776.), or other morbid change, the living ftrudture (15.) has fuffered, and the pre- difpofition to it (790.), is an aflertion con- fonant to rationality, and it. is believed, to experience ; circumftances carefully to be weighed in forming a prognoftic (69.)* 854. Mortification (788.) is more like- ly to remain local and limijted, when the inflammation is excited by a local and evi- dent caufe than by contrary ones. Among the laft, oflification of any part of the vaf- cular fyftem, or other change of ftrutfture induced by age, may be reckoned. Cure. 855. Becaufe the remedies„of mortifica- tion (788.) may be diverfified according to circumftances, efpecially its degree, they may be confidered as directed againft, 1. A tendency to mortification. 2. Eftablifhed mortification.53 SURGERY. A tendency to mortification. 856. A tendency to mortification (788), commonly named gangrene, is difcovered in inflammation (776.) by the commence- ment of the fpecified fymptoms. That degree of the vital flrudture (25.) which remains and may be capable of health (27.), ought to be preferved and foSter- ed by a timely, fpirited, and combined application of general (824.) and topical (826.) antiphlogistic remedies, upon the fuppofltion that the patient is vigorous, and the inflammation of that kind that may be denominated adtive (798.). 857. The tendency to mortification (778.), acceding to inflammation (776.) in a constitution exhibiting a defedl of healthful vigour, and a general putrefcent tendency (441.)) or predifpofition to mor- tification (788.), the ufe of the general an- tiphlogiftic remedies (824.) is juStly fu- perfeded by that of antifeptics (118.) and cordials (120.), feparately, or in combina- tion, among which the following maintain great character:ELEMENTS of 54 1. Wine. 2. Peruvian bark. Is not the promifcuous ufe of Peruvian- bark an abfurd, if not hurtful practice ? Are its effects againlt mortification in ge- neral equal to the great expeditions raifed. by its unlimited praife * ? S58. To inflammation (776.) tending to mortification (788.), in general, poultice (410.) is a preferable application. 859. An inclination to fuppuration (785.) or difcuflion (782.) is the molt certain and pleafing evidence that the tendency to mortification (788.) is fubverted j\ * When the gangrene arifes from the violence of inflammation, the bark may not only fail of proving a remedy, but may do harm ; and its power as a tonic is efpecially fuited to thofe cafes of gangrene which proceed from an original lofs of tone, as in the cafe ' of palfy and oedema, or in thofe cafes of inflammation where a lofs of tone takes place, while the original inflammatory fymptoms are removed. Dr Cullen’s Traci, of Phyftc, § 267. See Monro feriior’s Works, No. 44. •f When an inflammation has taken a tendency to gangrene, that event is to be prevented by every pof- fible means; and thefe mult be different, according to55 SURGERY. JLJlabliJhed Mortification. 860. Inflammation (776.) having com- pletely aflumed the termination mortifica- tion (788.), or having loft abfolutely the vital ftate (25.), is faid to be fphacelated, and the change is commonly named fpha- celation. 861. The connexion between mortified and living parts can only confift in con- tact or accidental adhefion, living (25.) integrity being extinguifhed. Slough. Appellation. Eschara. Definition. 862. Mortified parts (26.) *. the nature of the feveral caufes occafioning that ten- dency. Dr Cullen’s PraEl. of Phxfic, § 266. Eschara—Crufta ficca, mortua, fluidis folidif- que corporis humani coagmentata. Si pars quaedam$6 ELEMENTS op Sloughing. Appellations* Exfoliatio. Lapsus. Exfoliation. Definition. 863. The reparation of mortified (26.) from living (25.) parts. 864. Sloughing (863.) is, for many ob- vious reafons, a fortunate event, particu- larly, becaufe it indubitably marks the cauterio afruali vel potentiali comburitur, ea pars fic- ca, dura, afpera, fenfus et vitae expers, proprie Ef- chara dicitur, quae grifea a lapide infernali, argentei coloris a butyro antimonii, nigra a plnmbagine, igne cvadit: ejus lapfus eft opus naturae, quae fuppuratio- nem partium fuppofitarum excitat ; juvatur autem ce- rato Galeni, butyro, et fimilibus. Verum Efcharae nomen etiam extenditur ad fibras et filamenta, lacini- afque membranarum in ulceribus mortuis, ad cruftas ficcas, nigras, quae variolae. puftulis herpetibus, le- prae, aliifque fimilibus exantbematicis fuperveniunt. Sauvagesius,SURGERY. 57 circumfcription of the mortification (788.). It ought therefore to be promoted *. * Afcer a gangrene has in fome degree taken place, it can be cured only by the reparation of the dead front the living parts. 1 his, in certain circumftances, can be performed, and molt properly, by the knife. In other calcs, it can be done by exciting a fuppu» ratory inflammation on the verge of the living part, whereby its cohelian with the dead may be every ■where broken off, lb that the latter may fall off by itfelf. While this is doing, it is proper to prevent the farther putrefaftion of the part, and its Ipreading wider. For this purpofe, various antifeptic appli- cations have been propofed. But we are of opinion, that, while the integuments are entire, rhefe applica- tions can hardly have any efleft:; and therefore that the fundamental procedure mull be to lcarify the part, fo as to reach the living fubftance, and, by the •wounds made there, to ex.ite the fuppuracion required. By the fame incilion, alfo, we give accefs to antifep- tics, which may prevent the progrefs of the putrefac- tion in the dead, and excite inflammation in the living parts. When gangrene proceeds from a lofs of tone, and when this, communicated to the neighbouring parts, prevents that inflammation which, as we have faid, is neceflary to the feparation of the dead part from the living, it will be proper to obviate this lofs of tone by tonic medicines given internally; and, for this purpofe, the Peruvian bark has been found to be efpe- cially effectual. i hat this medicine operates by a to- nic power, we have endeavoured to prove. Dr Cullen’s Pratt, of Phvfic, $ 266. Vo L. 11* ' ' H5s ELEMENTS of 865. The acceflion of floughing (863.} is announced by a florid or inflamed line circumfcribing the mortified portion (862.), in the courfe of which pus (784.) becomes more and more perceptible till feparation is completed. 866. The inflammation (776.) invefting mortification (788.), and ending in fuppu- ration (785.), and facilitating the hough- ing (863.), is, in general, not a part of the inflammation which had terminated by mortification. It is recent, and may be produced by the acrimony of the dead matter adling as an occaflonal caufe (791.), which fometimes feems to be fo powerful as fatally to extend its influence. 867. It feems to be a reafonable afler- tion, that, fubflances may be antifeptic (118.) over dead (26.) and not over living (25.) matter. With refpecfl to the for- mer, if any advantage is fuppofed to be derived from retarding complete corrup- tion after inflammation, proper antifep- tics may be locally applied ; among which are fupereminent, feparately or com- binedly.SURGERY. 59 1. Vinous fpirit. 2. Eflential oil. 868. The application of the fpecified an- tifeptics (i 18.) may be rendered more in- timate by forming inciflons into the Hough (862.), which at fame time will permit the fanies to flow out. Thefe ought not perhaps to be carried into the living parts, becaule they permit the inflnuation of the putrid matter, which may in confequence become more deftructive. * 869. The floughing happily completed, (863.), the patient may be confldered as affected by wound, with lofs of fubftance, occupied by fuppurative inflammation (785); its cure ought to proceed according- *>'*• 870. Spreading mortification (788.) may be completely removed by amputa- tion f, which is a lubftitution of wound *; a bold remedy; its adoption, however, is jultifiable by reafon and experience, * See Wound. t See Operation. H 2 1ELEMENTS of 6© 871. Much of the fuccefs of amputa- tion, as a remedy of mortification (788.), will depend on fituation. The extremities of the body are favourable to its applica- tion. 872. Mortification (788.) confequent to inflammation (776.), excited by local caufes, unlefs ftrong predifpolition (857.) - exift, feldom extends beyond the inflamed parts. f 873. When mortification (788.) ceafes to fpread, or floughing (863.) is begun, fpontaneous amputation will fuperfede that which is artificial. It has often done this. The floughing procefs is amputation. The determination of the form and place of the wound is the only apology that can be of- fered for its adoption in this ftate. It is often wanton and unprincipled. 874. That the necefiiry of applying am- putation as a remedy of mortification (78 8.) only refults from its validity to check ex- tenfion, - otherwife fatally to take 'place, feems to be a juft conclufion from the de- tailed remarks (873.).61 SURGERY. 875. No good reafon occurs, for ima- gining that furgery (96.) is tarnifhed, al- though amputation, one of its moft power- ful remedies, may have been unavailingly employed to flay the ravages of mortifica- tion (788.). No remedy is univerfally fuccefsful. The moft Herculean expedi- ents are daily obferved to be abortive *. * A. C. a feafaring man about fifty years of age, was admitted into the Royal Infirmary of this city. He had a diflocation at the ankle, and a fratture of the fibula of the fame leg, about three inches from its inferior extremity, and a correfpondent wound of the covering parts. Mortification extending upwards foon made its appearance ; amputation was inftituted above the knee, with a view of checking its progrefs. This remedy was unfuccefsful. I alhlted at the con- futation, and readily advifed the operation mention- ed, as the only expedient that was capable to afford the unfortunate fufferer any chance of furvival. 1 he drawback in this cafe feemed to be the too late adop- tion of amputation. Within thefe few days paf!, mortification induced by local violence proceeded fatally beyond the place of injury. A gardener aged ninety-four years, living in the neighbourhood of this city, had his leg a little above the ankle miferably fra&urcd and wounded by the wheel of a loaded cart. Forefeeing that inflamma- tion, likely to affume the termination by mortification, was to enfue, I propofed inftantaneous amputation. He would not fubmit. Mortification acceded. Hcexpi- red within three days from the time of the violence.6 2 ELEMENTS of Necrosis. * i Appellation. La Gangrene Seche. Definition. 876. Mortification (788.) gradually ac- ceding without much previous inflamma- tion (776.), the dead parts becoming hard and dry *. 877. Necrofis (876.) feems to indicate no fpeciality of practice. 878. Inflammation (776.), according to fituation, is either internal or external, the latter occupying the cutaneous furface chiefly. # Necrosis—Partis mors, fine tumore praevio, deinde vero exficcatio, induratio, nigredo. Sauva- gesius. Necrosis—Partis mors Ienta, fine praevio tumo- re, mollitie, et diiTolutione, foetida, cum dolore ar- dente ordinario et ftupore, quae fequitur exficcatio partis, induratio, nigredo, et mumia : differt a gan- graena, in eo, quod lentius procedat, cum dolore ro- 163 SURGERY. Internal Inflammation. 879. Internal inflammation (878.) is often beyond the reach of infpedlion. It may fometimes be detected by touch * , it is always known by 1. Pain proportionally acute and pun- gent. 2. Symptomatic fever (691.). 3. Altered function of the inflamed parts f. 880. The moft noted varieties of inter- nal inflammation (878.) may be recount- ed, and any admiflible fpeciality of cure pointed out. 1 denfe et ftupore, et in niumiam abeat; gangraena contra mollefcat, phlyfraenas elevet, putrefcat, foete* at, et cito decurrat. Sagarus. # See Operation. ■f Inflammationem adefle dicitur, ubi tumor dtirus acuteque dolens, cum rubedine intenfa vebementique pulfatione : quae fi externas occupat partes, facile pa- tet; non ita vero, fi interrias, membranaceas, aut vifcera. Turn enim non nifi ex dolore plus minus autto, punctorio, pro varietate partis affe&ae, vel ef fumma anxietate, fi in pulmonibus aut hepate ; febri- que valida, turn et pulfu duro dignofcitur. Inflam*64 ELEMENTS of Phrenzy. Galenu HippoCt. Appellations. * Phrenitis. Phrenitiasis. CaJleL Phrenismus. Vogel. Cephalitis. Sphacelismus cerebri. Siriasis. Sphacerus. Sphalerus. Sideratio. Latin. Coma-cep halus. Aphrodific. Apoplexia. Brafavoli. Ulcus cerebri depascens. Lujitan. Encephalonosos. Rhumel. Cerebri sphacelus. Cerebri abscessus. Apoplexia purulenta. Morgagtn Cephalalgia inflammatoria. Cephalaea. Phrenesie. Inflammation du Cerveau. River. matio partium exttrnarum ejufqtie fequelae ad chirur- gicos pertinent morbos. Dk Meza Commend. Med. Praft. § l«SURGERY. 6j Brain-fever. Vulg. Definition. 881. Inflammation ('76.) feated in the brain (encephalon) or its membranes (me* ninges) *. * Phrenitis—Dolor capitis, delirium audax, vis artuum, pulfufque major, pyrexia acuta. Sauvage- Sius. Phrenitis—Tnflammatio nieningum—-Febris fyno- cha, cephalalgia, furor, anxietas, fyringmos, ophthal- mia, carpologia, oblivio. Linnaeus. Phrenitis—Febris acura, dolor capitis, delirium conftaris et vehemens. Vogelius. Phrenitis—Phlegmafia acuta, cum pyrexia et de- lirio perpetuo, a cephalalgia atroci plerumque incipi- ens; deliri-n quandoque eft audax, urina plerumque citrina, cum nebula fublimi. Sagarus. Phrenitis—Pyrexia vehemens; dolor capitis, ru- bor faciei et oculorum; lucis et foni intolerantia; pervigilium; delirium ferox vel typhomania. Cul- LENUSi Phrenismus—Vera inflammatio cerebri aut mem- branarum ejus, quam ex dolore capitis et vehement! delirio febrili vulgo definiunt, qilae figna vero admo- dum ambigua. Vogelius. Cephalitis—Febris acuta, cum delirio fomnolen- to, et carphologia. Sauvagesius. VOL. II. IELEMENTS of 66 Diagnojlic. 882. Phrenzy (881.) is detected by, 1. Pain peculiar, acute, and pulfatory' (775*)- Cephalitis—Phlegmafia in qua mentis ftupor, fomnolentia, lomnus cataphoricus, carphologia adfunt, cum pyrexia acuta typhode; pulfus fucceflive mol- lefcit, cum frequentia tine celeritate ; aegri funt ad- modutn debiles; lingua plerumque mollis, fudor qua- fi perpetuus; caput faepe manibus impetunt, fricant etiam deleri. Sagarus. SphacfiLisMUS — Inflammatio encephali. Syno- chus, delirium, carpologia, afthenia, immobilitas, anae- fthaefia, aphonia. Linnaeus. * " » - Species of Phrenitis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Phrenitis vera. Boerhav. Phrenitis ejfentialis. Fortis. v Phrenitis idiopathicn. Juncker. 2. Phrenitis fynochi pleuriticae. Phrenefis. Sydenham. 3. Phrenitis miliaris. Hoffman. Phrenefis novae febri f/perveniens. Sydenham^ 4 Phrenitis fynochi fanguineae. Ejufdetn. 5. Phrenitis Variolofa. Ejufdetn. 6. Phrenitis morbillofa. Morton. 7. Phrenitis verminofa. Sennert. 8 Phrenitis a plica. Hoffman. 9. Phrenitis aphrodifiaca. Winpleri, 10. Phrenitis a pyreta. Collado,SURGERY. 67 2. Rednefs and morbid fenfibility of the eyes. 3. Symptomatic fever (691.) propor- tional. 4. Difturbed function of the brain, un- ■ der the form of ferocious raving (delirium ferox (421.) *. 11. Phrenitis calentura. Calenture. 12. Phrenitis Indica. Bonfii. 13. Phrenitis a dolore. 14. Phrenitis a tarantifmo. Baglivi. 15. Phrenitis hydrophobica. 16. Phrenitis inanitorum. Meyzerey. Species of Cephalitis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Cephalitis /£gyptiaca. Phlcgmone cerebri. 2. Cephalitis traumatica. River. Abfcejfus cerebri. Schenck. 3. Cephalitis fpontanea. Phrenitis heclica. Hippoc. Morbus folflitialis. Trinumin. Cerebri abfcejjiis etfphacelus. River. 4. Cephalitis firialis. Ardor capitis. SiriajisAetii. 5. Cephalitis littriana. 6. Cephalitis epidemica. 7. Cephalitis verminofa. 8. Cephalitis cerebelli. * The fymptoms by which phrenzy may be niofl: I 2ELEMENTS of ■68 883. Afcertaining whether or not phren* zy (881.) be idiopathic (43.) or fympto- piatic (44.) is a point of moll obvious importance. 884. Phrenzy (881.) may aflume any one of the fpecified terminations (781.) ; mortification (788.), however, can rarely accede, becaufe the vital condition (25.) is likely to be previoufly obliterated. Special Cure. 885. The high importance of the organs affedled by phrenzy (881.) is a cogent mo- tive to carry it to diffcuffio.n (782.). Sup- puration (785.) is an event greatly difaf- trous, often fatal; this experience teaches. The moil powerful antiphlogiftic reme- dies (815.) ought not to be {lintedly ap- plied in its earlieil exiftence, particularly filood-letting (1 16.), and occafionally re- peated *, certainly known are an acute pyrejtia, a violent head- ach, a rednefs of the face and eyes, an impatience of light, a conftant watching, and a delirium impetuous and furious Dr Cullen’s Pract. of Phvfic, § 286. See Fordyce’s Elem. of Ph\fic, p. 214. * The cure of phrenzy is the fame with that of in- flammation in general j but here the moft powerful\ SURGERY. 69 886. Phrenzy (881.) fymptomatic of wound or fracture *, in general, demands appropriated chirurgical operation f to con- duct it to difcuflion (782.). 887. Phrenzy (881.) reaching fuppura- tion (785.),the pus (784.) may fometimesre- * quire evacuation'!'. This efpecially is like- ly to happen when it is induced by local injury. 888. After fufficient blood-letting (116.) has been employed againfl phrenzy (88i.)a purging (118.) may be reforted to, remedies are to be immediately employed. Large and repeated bleedings are efpecially neceflary, and thefe taken from veflels as near as potfible to the part affe&ed. Dr Cullen’s Pract. of Phyftc, § 288. In the cure of inflammation of the brain, the moft powerful means of reflation are immediately to be employed. Fiat V. S. c brachio ad unc. xii. xx. xxx. pro dia- theft inflammatoria aut corporis viribus, et repe- tatur pro re nata, &c. Fordyce’s Elem. of Phyfc, p. 215. * See Wound and FraPure, f See Trepanation.7® ELEMENTS of Quinsy. Cynanche. Squinantia. Gordoii. Prunella. Paracel/. Angina inflammatoria. Boerhav. Cynanche tonsillaris. Cullen. 889. Inflammation (776.) fituated in the throat (fauces), particularly in one or both tonfils (amygdalae) *. * Cynanche—Dolorgutturis, cum dyfpnoea ftran- gulante, dyfphagie, et pyrexia acuta. Sauvagesius. Cynanche—Tnflammario faucis. Synocha, tuflis, aglutitio, ortopnoea, angina, fufFocatio, linguae intu- mefcentia. Linnaeus. Cynanche—Phlegmafia acuta, pharingis, laringis, dyfpnoeam et dyfphagiam inducens, cum pyrexia acu- ta, faucium rubore, calore, dolore, tumore, quae ad- elTe docet infpe&io in fauces, deprefla lingua. Sa- GARUS. Appellations. Esquinancie. Angine. Throat-inflammation. Graecor. De/jiition.SURGERY. 7r 890. Quinfy (889.) in general may be difcovered by infpedtion. Symptomatic fever (691.) is prefent proportionally. Cynanche—Pyrexia aliquando typhodes ; rubor et dolor faucium ; deglutitio et fpiratio difficiles, cum anguftiae in faucibus fenfu. Cullenus. Angina—Difficultas refpirandi, cum fenfu obicis in gutture, et faepe deglutitione difficili, fine phleg- mafia. Sauvagesius. Angina—Faucis dolor cum fuffocatione. Lin- naeus. Angina—Faucium inflammatio ; febris continua, refpirandi et deglutiendi difficultas, praefocationis me- tus. Vogelius. Angina—Refpiratio impedita, cum fenfu obicis in gutture, abfque phlegmafia, five dum adfit dyfphagia, five non. Sagarus. Angina—Cynanche. Cullf.nus. Species of Cynanche, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Cynanche tonfillaris. Synanche. Graecor. Anginae quarta fpecies. Boerhav, FJquinacie ordinaire. 2. Cynanche epidemica. Febris a/tginofa. Huxham. 3. Cynanche maligna. Panarol. a. Cynanche ulcerofa. Vandermonde. b. Cynanche gangrae/iofa. Marteau,72 ELEMENTS of Special Cure. 891. Although quinfy (889.) termina- ting by fuppuration (785.) may not pro- duce fatal confequences, yet this is an 4. Cynanche exanthematica. Angina variola fa. „ , , . . h Sydenham. Angina morbillofa. j 5. Cynanche trachealis. Cynanche vera. ^ / , , J- Graecor. Cynanche laryngea. j Angina canina. Lufitani. Anginae prima fpecies. Boerhav. 6. Cynanche pharyngea. Parafynanche. Graecor. Dyfphagia tnfiammatoria. Anginae quarta fpecies. Boerhav. 7. Cynanche thy mica. Bonet. 8. Cynanche hepatica. Guarinmii. Angina, falva larynge, a jecore corntpto orium du* cens. Bonet. 1 9. Cynanche a deglutitis. Angina fpuria. Etmuller. 10. Cynanche arthritica. Angina arthritica. Mufgrave. Angina metojlatica a fcabie, herpete repulfis Mezerey. 11. Cynanche mercurialis. Schenck. 12. Cynanche prunella. Etmuller. 13. Cynanche a dyfenteria. Ejufdern. *4. Cynanche parotidaea.SURGERY. event abundantly painful and inconve- nient, and points ouc the expediency of 15. Cynanehe purpuro-parotidaea. Ejufdem. Species of Angina, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Angina bronchus. Angina pituitofa. Catarrhas ad fauces. Angina mucofa. Hdxham. Angine catarrhale. 2. Angina loweriana. Angine o'edemateufe. Boerhav. 3. Angina calculofa. River. 4. Angina a deglutitis. Tulpii. Ab infxo afperae arteriae officulo. Bonet. A fpina pifcis in faucibus haerente. Schenck. 5. Angina a laqueo. Angina fufpenforum. 6. Angina fcirrhofa. Boerhav. Dyfpnoea a tumore carcinomatofo afperae arteriae adnato. Bonet. Dyfpnoea a farcomate in poflica parte palati. Ruyfchii. 7. Angina fuppuratoria. Boerhav. 8. Angina venerea. Ulcere verolique au gofer. 9. Angina hyfterica. Riven 10. Angina hydrophobica. Sycanke. Graecor. 11. Angina nafalis. VOL. II. r K rELEMENTS of 74 vigoroufly attempting to condud it to di£- eufiion (782.). 892. The tepid bath in the form of va- pour (410.) may be employed as a remedy favourable to the difcuffion (782.) of quin-- fy (889.). Its lituation fcarcely admits of its ufe in any other form *. 12- Angina exanthematica. Hoffman* Angina fymptomatica. Angina variolofa. Angina msrbillofa. 13. Angina fcorbutiea. Hoffman* 14. Angina thymica. Bonet. 15. Angina polypofa. Albucafts. 16. Angina anearyfmatica. Bonet. l 7. Angina bronchocelica. Marchett. Angina a Jlruma interna circa jugulunr. 18. Angina fpafmodica. Zwingeri. Angina alba. Meyzerey. JEfquin'acie blanche on pituiteufe. *■ In the cure of quinfy, fome bleeding may ba< proper; but large bleedings will feldom be neceflary. The opening of the ramular veins feems to be an in- iignificant remedy ; and leeches fet upon the external fauces are of more efficacy. This inflammation may often be relieved by mode- rate aflringents, and particularly by acids applied to the inflamed parts. In many cafes, nothing has been found to give more relief than the vapour of warm water received into the fauces. D'r Cullen’s Brail tf PhyfiCj § 324.SURGERY. 7* $93. Suppurated (786.) quinfy particu- larly calls for artificial opening (843.). The fuffocation it produces has fometimes been fo threatening, as to make bronchotomy * neceflary for the maintenance of life j\ .894. Quinfy (889.) connected with fcar- kt fever (565.), conftituting the affedlion named ulcerous fore throat (577.), often becomes mortified (788.): It is to be treat- ed accordingly. Peripneumony. Appellations. Peripneumonia, PuLMONARIA. PULMONIA PNEUMONIA. AlpinL PULMONIA. ? n. -n > Lai tells. Peripleumonia. s * See Bronchotomy. f If the paflage of the air into the lungs (by quin, fy) be fo much obftrufted as to threaten immediate fuffocation, bronchotomy is to be performed. If no fluid can be got into the ftomach, the blood-veffels may be fupplied in fome meafure by glyfters. For- PYCE’s Elements of Pbyftc, p. 224. ’ K 27<S ELEMENTS of Pleuroperipneumonia. Bonef, PneTumo-pleuritis. Dolaei. / v • . . * * 3' • Peripneumonia notha. Peripneumonie. Definition. 895. Inflammation (776.) feated in th»c lungs *. * Peripneumonia—Pyrexia acuta, dvfpnoea gra- vis, gravativus pectoris dolor, tuflis cruenta, pulfus mollis. Sauvagesius. Peripneumonia—Inflammatio pulmonis., fynocba* haemoptyfn, d, fpnoea, interfcapuli dolor, cubatus fu- pinus. Linnaeus. Peripneumonia—Pulmonum inflammatio, febris continua, dolor thoracis obtufus, gravativus, tuflis hu- mida, aliquando cruenta, difficultas anhelitus anguftia-; ye. Vogelius. Peripneumonia—Pyrexia acuta, dyfpnoea gra- vis, fenfus oppreflionis gravativae fub Iterno, calor et anxietas in peftore, tullis cruenta, facies rubra, lingua, yubra, tumidula ; pulfus in incremento magnus, fub infpiratione remittens vel penitus intermittens, ad fl- uem morbi mollis. Sagarus. Peripneumonia—Pneumonia; pulfu non Temper duro, aliquando molli; dolore thoracis obtufo ; refpl- ratione perpetuo difficili, faepe non nili trunco corpo- ris eretto exorienda; faciei tumidae colore purpureo; tufli plerunique humida, faepe cruenta. Cujllenus. 1SURGERY. 77 Diagnojlic. 896. Befldes the common fvmptoms of internal inflammation (776.), peripneumo- Species of Peripneumonia, according to Sauva. ges, are, 1. Peripneumonia pura. Peripneumonia vera. Pneumonitis. Bougard. La vraie peripneumonie. 2. Peripneumonia purrida. Peripneumonie fymptomatique. 3. Peripneumonia ardens. Brunsfelfit, Peripneumonitis. Bougard. 4. Peripneumonia maligna Peripneumonia pejlilens. Schenck. Peripneumonia eryfipelatofa. Ejufdem. Febris crimodes. Foreft. Peripneumonia typhodes. Pleuro-peripneumonie bilieufe. 6. Peripneumonia catarrhalis. Amati. Peripneumonia a capitis difhllatione. ? poreft Peripneumonia pituitofa. J Peripneumonia notha. Ejufdem. Fluxion fur la poitrine. 7. Peripneumonia arthririca. Mufgrave. 8. Peripneumonia phthilicorum. Morton. 9. Peripneumonia exanthematica. Peripneumonia a variola. Morton. Peripneumonia a rubeola. Sydenham. Peripneumonia a miliari' Albini.7$ EL EM ENTS of ny (895.) is peculiarly marked by 1. Difturbed pulmonary function, or difficult refpiration f. 2. Pain within the chefl more or lefis acute, aggravated by exertion. 3. Cough (705.) varioufly urgent, fome- times productive of little expectoration. 4. Blood varioufly abundant blended with the fpitting, and more or lefs altered, efpecially at the beginning (217.). 10. Peripneumonia hydrophobica. 11. Peripneumonia gaftrica. Barthes. 12. Peripneumonia rachialgica. Doazam. f See D'fpnoea, §220. Orthopnoea, § 220. AJlh- tna, § 749. Pneumony (pneumonia) almoft always comes on with a cold ftage, and is accompanied with the other fymptoms of pyrexia, though in a few inftances the puXe may not be more frequent, nor the heat of the body increafed beyond what is natural. Sometimes the pyrexia is from the beginning accompanied with the other fymptoms ; but frequently the pyrexia is formed for fome hours before the other fymptoms become confiderable, and particularly before the pain be felt For the moft part, the pulfe is frequent, full, ftrong, hard, and quick; but in a few inftances, efpecially in the advanced ftate of the difeafe, the pulfe is weak and foft, and at the/ame time irregu- lar. Dr Cullen’s Prafl. of Phv/ic, § 328. \ .SURGERY. 79 5. Pulfes accelerated, full and hard for the moil part (144.). 897. Determining whether peripneuma- ny (895.) be refident in the parenchyma- tous, membranous, or vafcular part of the lungs, or in all of thefe combinedly, is a: point very little confequential *. Special Cure. 898. The peculiar ftrudture of the lungs,; and their indifpenfable function, inculcate in the ftrongeft manner the expediency of the utmoft exertion to divert peripneumo- ny (895.) from reaching fuppuration(785.) or mortification (788.): The latter of thefe will always prove a mortal events * Some phyficians have imagined, that peripneu- mony begins in the parenchyma or cellular texture of the lungs, and has its feat chiefly there. But it feems to me very doubtful if any acute inflammation of the lungs, or any difeafe which has been called peripneu- mony, be of that kind : It feems probable that every acute inflammation begins in membranous parts, &c. Dr Cullen’s Pratt, of Phyftc, § 334. 1 he inflammation of the lungs is a difeafe of the bronchial artery only. Fourd-Yce’s Elnnents of P'hy- fc, p. 229.So ELEMENTS of 899. Very liberal general blood-letting (116.) early inftituted during peripneu- mony (895.) is the only remedy equal to check its progrefs. 900. Expectorants (112.), it is doubtful if any fubftances meriting fuch denomina- tion exift, compared with blood-letting (116.), are feeble and inlignificant: The ftimulant power by which fecretion, excre- tion, or expectoration is promoted, is like- ly to aggravate rather than alleviate peri- pneumony (895.}, and is feemingly oppo- fite to the ftfft indication of cure (813.) 901. The cough (705.) attending peri- pneumony (895.) may be quieted by the ufe of anodynes (119.), which in this in- fiance may 'prove antiphlogifiic (815.) in two ways. 902. The bronchial furface of the lungs is acceffible by the vapour-bath (410.), which is likely to communicate benefit during peripneumony (895.) *„ * Mr MtJDGE has invented an inflrumcnt for the adminiftration of the vapour-bath to the lungs., which he has named Inhaler. I have taken the liberty toSURGERY. 8i 903. Epifpaftics (11 i.)j when applied to the back or fides during peripneumony (895.), anatomy {hews to be diftant and remote ; their evaCuant effedt will be pro- portionally unavailing ** Lung-Boil. % Appellations. Vomica. PLEURODYNE VOMICA: VoMIQUE: alter and Amplify its ftru&ure very confiderably, by which it is rendered more manageable, and its adlioti nv re accurate. I he improvements are mentioned rind engraved in the Encyclopaedia Britannica how pilbliihing m this city. • Very early in the difeafe, a blifter ihould be ap. plied as near to the pained part as pofliole. But as, When the irritation of a blifter is prefent, it renders bleeding lefs effectual; fo the application of the blifter Ihould be delayed till a bleeding ihall have been em- ployed. It ma. be frequently neceffary to repeat the bliftering; and, in that cafe, the plaftdrs Ihould al- ways be applied fomewhere on the thorax ; for wherf applied to more diftant parts, thev havTe little effect. Dr Cullen’s Prat7. of Phyfic, § 358. Vol. 11. L \ELEMENTS of 82 Definition. 90-4. Impofthume (784.) formed in the lungs *. w * A + + * 905. The unfortunate acceflion of fuppu- rative (785.) peripneumony (895.), which conftitutes lung-boil (904.), is known by fhivering and cold fits (156.)* diminifhed pain, hedtic fever (695.). A\ ■■ - • • ’ ; 7 '" T ‘ 906. Lung-boil (904.), it is evident, is in every degree and fituation a dangerous occurrence; and its deftrudtive confe- quences will be much in the rate of its fize or extenfion, and of its feat as to the bronchial tubes. * Vomica—Pulmonis purulenta, copiofa, impro- vifa cvacuatio. LlNNAEU$. Vomica—Subifanea, copiofa pnris aut fanguinjs nigri e pulmonibos reje&io per tuflim. Vogelius. I VouMlCA—Poll pneumoniam, refolutione quadam non determinatam, dyfpnoea tt tuflis perdanres, cum clecubitu in latus fanum difliciH, et febre heiftica. Cuju LENUS.SURGERY. 83 907. Lung-boil (904.) penetrating or rupturing the bronchial furface, and the pus (784.) receiving a gradual effufion and expectoration (705.), is the mold favour- able evacuation it can obtain: Indeed a great and fudden difcharge of it in this di- rection, by fuffuling the air-veffels, and fupprefling relpiration, may induce imme- diate death (26.). 908. If the pus (784.) of lung-boil (904.) makes a penetration towards the pleura, and finally delbroys a portion of this mem- brane, it falls into the pleuritic cavity of the correfpondent fide, and constitutes em- pyema*; the cure of which will be after- wards taken notice of. 909. Peripneumony (895.) feldom in- curs mortification (788.) ; the death (26.) of the whole iyftem is likely to anticipate this event -j~. * See Empyema. t Pneumonic, like other inflammations, may termi- nate by refolution, fuppurationi or gangrene ; but it has alfo a termination peculiar to itfelf, as has been hinted above, and which is, when it. is attended withELEMENTS of §4 Pleurisy. Appellations. Pleuritis. Passio pleuritica. Aurelik Telum. S anion. Pleuresis. Gordon. Phlegmasia membranae costalis. Alpin. Pleura furens. Helmont. Morbus costalis. Vernae. Peripneumo-pleuritis. Trillcr. Pleurodyne. Pectoris dolor. Bonet. PsEUDO-PLEURITIS. Pleuritis spuria. Pleuresie. Douleur de poitrine, an effufion of blood into the cellular texture of the lungs, which interrupting the circulation of the blood through this vifcus, produces a fatal fuffocation. This indeed feems to be the moft common termination of pneumonic inflammation, when it ends fatally ; for* upon the diffe&ion of almoft every peri'on dead of that difeafe, it has appeared that fuch an effufion had happened. Dr Cullen’s Praft. of Pbfsch § 338. ISURGERY. 85 ... f * - . T * ^ Definition. 910. Inflammation (776.) afletfling the inverting membrane of the chert (pleura), and more or lefs the neighbouring parts *. # Pleuritis—Dolor laterls, refpiratio et pulfus frequens, tuffis. Sauvagesius. Pleuritis—Inflamm3tio pleurae. Synocha, dyf- pnoea, tudis, haemoptyfis, pleuritica. Linnaeus. Pleuritis—Pleurae inflammatio; febris confinua, dolor in latere thoracis pungens, tulTis ficca, dyfpnoea. Vogelius. Pleuritis—Phlegmafia cum pyrexia acuta, dyf- pnoea, dolore peftoris plerumque pundiorio, et tufl! molefta dolorem augente, fine gravitate iti medio pe- ftore. Sagarus. Pleuritis—Pneumonia; pulfuduro; dolore, ple- rumque lateris, pungente, Tub infpiratione praefertim acuto; decubitu in latus molefto; tufli dolentiifimo, initio ficca, poftea humida, faepe crucnta. Cullenus. Pleuritica—Thoracis dolor lateralis pun&orius. Linnaeus. A Pleurodyne—Pe&oris laterifve dolor pungitivus, cum refpirandi difficultate, citra phlegmafiam acutam. Sauvagesius. Pleurodyne—Anhelatio, cum pedloris dolore, fine phlegmafia, cum exigua vel nulla febre.* Sagarus.ELEMENTS of 86 91 i. Pleurify (910.) perhaps ought to be reftri&ed to denominate inflammation Pleurodyne—Pneumonia. Cullenus. I ' ' t • r r\ 1 - V r* 1 ’ »•* ' ♦ ^ Species of Pleuritis, according to Sauvages, are, I. Pleuritis vera. Boerhav. Pleuritis fanguine a. Hippoc. Pleuritis pura. Baglivi. Pleuritis jlammofa. Triller. 2.. Pleuritis pulmonis. Zeviani. Pleuroperipneumonia. '3. Pleuritis dorfalis. Hippoc. 4. Pleuritis mediaftini. Freind. 5. Pleuritis pericardii. Lufttan. 6. Pleuritis traumatica. 7. Pleuritis biliofa. Tulpii. Pleuritis a bile. 8. Pleuritis verminofa. Quercetani. Pleuritis Jlomachalis. Bianchi. 9. Pleuritis putrida. Vandermonde. Pleuritis ingluviofa. Triller. Pleuritis fymptomatica. Pleuritis impura, fecundaria. 10. Pleuritis catarrhalis. Hippoc. Peripneumonia epidemica. Dodon. II. Pleuritis eryfipelatofa. Baglivi. Pleuritis a febre ardenti. Mocha. Pleuritis a magno aejlu et fiti. Wolfgangi. 12. Pleuritis hepatica. 7 Hepatis pleuritica. ' 13. Pleuritis convulfiva. Bianchi. Pleuritis ftcca. Hippoc. 14. Pleuritis periodica. Morton.SURGERY. 87 (776.) of the coftal portion of the pleura and contiguous parts: Conlidered as mark- •'.*./j) (nc'rr'irqhfq t 5- nor//2 15. Pleuritis hydrothoracica. Crendal. 16. Pleuritis peftilens. Schenck. 17. Pleuritis lafiea. Plcurefie laiteufe. Puzos. 18. Pleuritis polonica. Stabel. 19. Pleuritis fplenica. De Haeti. 20. Pleuritis miliaris. Camerarii. Species of Pleurodyne, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Pleurodyne plethorica. Pfeudo-plcuritis. Zacuti. Pleuritis fpuria. River. 2. Pleurodyne verminofa. Quercetan. Dolor pleuriticus ex lumbricis. River. 3. Pleurodyne rheumatica. Dolor lateris. Ballonii. 4. Pleurodyne flatulenta. Ejufdem. Dolor lateris ajlatu. Bianchi. Pleurodyne Jlatulenta. Pringlii. Pleurefie venteufe. 5. Pleurodyne venerea. Lateris dolor. Ballonii. Gallicus morbus. t 6. Pleurodyne hyfterica. Van Swieten. Pleurodyne hypochondriaca. Vernae. 7. Pleurodyne a cacochylia. Ejufdem. 8. Pleurodyne phthifica. Guarinonii. Pleuritis phthifica. Vernae. 9. Pleurodyne a fpafmate. Van Swieten. 10. Pleurodyne ex aneuryfmate. River.ELEMENTS op 88 ing inflammation of the pleura and lungs* it is difficult to draw a line of partition between it and peripneumony (895.) . • 1 11. Pleurodyne fcorbutica. Lind. Pleuritis fcorbutica. Sennert. 12. Pleurodyne arthritica. Baglivi. 13. Pleurodyne rachitica. Buchneri. 14. Pleurodyne catarrhalis. 35. Pleurodyne febricofa. Morton. 16. Pleurodyne miliaris. Altonii. 37. Pleurodyne ex abfceflu. Willijfi. 18. Pleurodyne ab ofliculo. Gijfard. 19. Pleurodyne parapleuritis. Veziani. 20. Pleurodyne a rupto oefophago. Boerhav, 21. Pleurodyne vomica. Vomica puhnonuin. Williffii. Vomica latens. Tulpii. Luberculum puhnomtm. Ba glivi. Abfceffus pulmonum. Etmuller. * It has been difputed whether this difeafe (pleu- rify) be an inflammation of the pleura, or of the ex- ternal coat of the lungs. It appears molt probable, that the inflammation arifes in the pleura, and fpreads from thence to the lungs. FoRlbYCE’s Elements of Phy/ic, p. 236. Sedes morbi (pletiritidis) in 300 pleuriticis denatis, a P. Servio Romano, in pleura pulmonali invents eft; invenit nimirum pleuram pulmonis fuperficiem cum fuperficialibus et extremis vafis pulmonis inflam- matam. Sagarus. Matter forming during pleurify is fhewn by irre-S tr R G E R Yi 89 \ f f ( *' . • U Diugnojlic. 912. Pleurify (910*) is chiefly diftin- guifhed from peripneumony (895.) by 1. Pain fuperiorly acute, and fometimes aggravated by prelfure made on its feat. 2. Refpiration in general lefs obftrudt- ed. 3. Expectoration not bloody. Special Cure. 913. The remarks made on the cure of peripneumony (895.) are fuflicient to point out that of pleurify (910.).^ 914. If pleuretic inflammation (910.) is difeovered to refide chiefly in the coital portion of the pleura, it is, anatomically fpeaking, more within the reach of exter- nal application, particularly topical blood- gular coldnefs and Ihiverings, the pain going off, and becoming flight and obtufe. If tiie matter fx>fnts ex- ternally, a fluctuation is felt in the part affected. If the pus is contained in the cavity of the thorax, it id felt between the lower ribs, and the patient cannot lie on the oppofite fide. Fourdyce’s Elements of Phyfic, p 239. VOL. IL M90 ELEMENTS of letting (369.), bliftering (111.), and poul- ticing (826.) f. 915. Pleurify (910.),* thus confidered (914.),- and reaching fuppuration (785.), is more likely to effect rupture externally, and to admit of artificial opening (843.), than peripneumony (895.) : it may equal- ly produce empyema (908.). HE ART-INFLAMMATION. Appellations, Carditis. Inflammatiocordis et pericardii. Senac. Synochus cardiaca. Meyzerey, Inflammation du coeur. f Cupping glafles, with and without fcarifkation, have been applied in both difeafes (pleurify and peripneumony), fometimes with advantage; but the cold air, to which the Ikin is expofed during the ope- ration, often overbalances the good effe&s of it. FqURDYCE’s Elements of Bhy/ic, p. 242.SURGERY. 9i Definition. 916. Inflammation (776.) feated in the fubftance of the heart*. * Carditis—Dolor fub fterno, pulfus inaequalis, frequens, palpitatio, et cardialgia, cordis anxietas. Sauvagesius. Carditis—Cordis inflammatio, fymptomata fere ut in peripneumonia, fed graviora, dolor veheme.-.s in Tegione, cordis palpitatio, pulfus frequens ac inaequa- lis, hydrophobia ; an femper ? Carditis—Adeft dolor conftans fub fterno, in re- gione cordis urens, flammam vitae extinguens, cum palpitatione, frequentibus animi deliquiis, pulfu jam magno, duro, per momenta, jam parvo, freqnente, in- aequali, inordinato, intermittente; febre au<fta typho- de et anxietatihus ; cor manu tenentes aegri fugitivis oculis et mille ja&ationibus agitationi, libi comburi, illudque mori quaeruntur, clamant. Sagarus. Carditis—Pyrexia; dolor in regione cordis, an. xietas, fpiritus difficilis ; tuflis ; pullus inaequalis ; pal- pitatio ; fyncope. Cullenus. Species of Carditis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Carditis fpontanea. Aleckel. 2. Carditis traumatica. Seaac. BleJJure du coeur. M 29* ELEMENTS of Diagnoflicy 917, Inflammation of the heart (916.), is an occurrence more rare than might be imagined, befldes the general fymptoms of peripneumony aggravated, its prefence is peculiarly marked by 1. Pain in the region of the heart un- commonly diftrefling and acute. 2. Palpitation (751.) or irregular adlion of the heart. 3. Fainting (570.) frequently recur- ring *. * In Cardite epidemics, Clar. Trecourt, 'Journal dt Med. Dec. 1755. meinorat figna fequentia : 1. Symptomata peripneumoniae, fed violentiora. 2. Dyfpnoeam extremam, cum longo intervallo in- ter exfpirationem et fequentem infpirationem 3. Sirim clamofam. 4. Horrorem potus, ira ut aquae adfpedu freme- renr et convellerenturaegri. 5. Dolorem in regione cordis, quo pedus tanquam plavo confoffum videretur.i— His ad ie naulcam conti- iHiam, pilpitationem, pulfum depreffum, pculos lachry. niofqs, tfirtes, linguain aridarq, nigram, fanguinem pleuriricunj corio flavo denfo obdudum ; minus fanis prant fimiles; aegritudo contagiofa, quae feptimana termi'nabatur. Sedis cadaveribus plurimis, cordis fub- ft;mtia omnibus ulcerata ; plurimis concretiones poly- pqfae, pericardium cordi accretum. Sauvagesius.SURGERY. Special Cure. 918. The importance of the heart evi- dently calls for the mofl potent remedies We might give a feriion on the carditis and peri- carditis, or the inflammations of the heart and peri- cardium; but they hardly require a particular confi- deration. An acute inflammation of the pericardium is almoft always a part of the fame pleuritic affe&ion we have been treating of, and is not always diftinguilhed by any different fymptoms, or, if it be, does not re- quire any different treatment. The fame may be faid of an acute inflammation of the heart itfelf; and when it happens that the one or the other is difco- vered by fymptoms of palpitation and fyncope, no more is implied, than that the remedies of pneumo- nic inflammation fliopld be applied with greater dili- gence. From difTeriions, which fhew the heart and peri- cardium affected with erotions, ulcerations, and ab- fceffes, we difcover that thefe par.ts had been affected with inflammation ; and while at the fame time no fymptoms of pneumonic inflammation bad appeared, it may be alleged that thefe inflammaiions of the heart and pericardium fhould be confidered as difeafes inde- pendent of the pneumonic. This indeed is juft ; but the hiftory of fuch cafes proves, that the inflammations had been of a chronic kind, and hardly difcovering themfelves by any peculiar fymptoms, or if attended with fuch as marked an affc&ion of the heart, thefe 3r? at the fame time fuch as have been known to94 ELEMENTS of (815.) during its inflammation (776.), of which any other termination than difl- cuflion (781.) feems not a little incompa- tible with life (25.). 919. The method of cure of inflamma- tion of the heart (916.), fymptomatic of wound *, will be colleded from the re- marks refpeding this laft named affedion. Pericardial Inflammation. Appellations. Pericarditis. Pericardii inflammatio. Inflammation de pericarde. Definition. 920. Inflammation (776.) occupying the covering of the heart (pericardium) f. arife from other raufes than inflammation. There is therefore no reafon for our treating more particular- ly of the inflammation of the heart and pericardium. Dr Cullen’s Pract. of Phyftc, § 362. % # See Wound. f Pericarditis—-Pericardii inflammatio; omnia ut in mediaftina, urgente morbo fyncope. Voge- I LIUS.95 SURGERY. Diagnojlic. 921. Inflammation of the covering of the heart (920.) is difficultly difcriminated from pleurify (910.), and from inflam- mation of the heart itfelf (916.) f. Special Cure. • 1 " * y'* ; 922. The procedure valid againfl pleu- . rify (910.) and inflammation of the heart (916.) will be equally fo againfl that of its covering (920.). Mdiastinal Inflammation. Appellations. Mediastina. Mediastini inflammatio. Inflammation de mediastine. f Inflammation of the pericardium has many things in common with the inflammation of the pleura; but the pain is deeper feated, and is not fo much increa- fed upon infpiration. If the heart is afle&ed, the pulfe becomes fmall, ir- regular, and intermittent, with immenfe anxietv, the • ' j * patient falls into fyncopes, and is foon deflroyed. It is to be treated alfo as the pleurjfy. Fouit- DYCE’S Elements of Phyjic, p. 446.ELEMENTS oP 9S Definition. 923. Inflammation (776.) of the parti- tion of the chefl (mediaflinum) *. Diagnojlic. 924. Inflammation, of the partition of the chefl: (923.) is fpecially marked by Pain Ilriking from the breaft-bone to the back. Special Cure. 925. The creation of empyema (908.), in confequence of mediaftinal inflamma- tion (923.) attaining the fuppurating flate (785.) may be prevented by artificial open- ing of die impoftliume (786.). A corre- fpondent trepanned hole of the breaft- * MeDiastina—Mediaftini inflatmnatio ; febris continua, incendium in thorace, offendiculum quoddam ad fternum in infpiratione, refpiratio frequens, tuflis cum fputis coloratis, orthopnoea ; an femper ? Voge- Lius. Mediastina—Pneumonia. Cullenus.SURGERY.' 97 bone*, and proper opening of the foft parts, is the mode f. Paraphrensy. appellations. % PARAPH RENE SI Si Paraphrosyne. Paraphrenitis. Boerha'O* Fievre maligne cerebrale. Meyzer* Diaphragmatic inflammation. Definitioni 926. Inflammation (776.) of the mid« riff (diaphragma) J. * See Trepanation. ■f See an excellent collection of Fadls and remarks on this fubjedt, by M. de la Ma rTtnierE, among the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, vol. 4. p. 555- &c- Ifi one cafe, the pus fpontaneoufly de- ftroyed the breaft-bone, and was difeharged. t Pahaphrenesis—Syrnptomata phrenitidis et pe- ripneumoniae. Sauvagesius. Vol. II. N98 ELEMENTS of I Diagnojiic. 927. Eftaphragmaticinflammation (926.) is noted fpecially by Pa raphrenesis—Inflammatio ^iaphragmatis, pe- ripneumonia, phrenitis. Linnaeus. Pa raphrenesis—Pneumonia. Cullenus. • Paraphrenitis—Diaphragmatis inflammatio ; fe- bris continua, clyfpnoea, dolor e regione ventriculi, cinguli inftar, ventrem fupra lumbos ambiens, deli- rium. Vogelius. Diaphragmitis—Phlegmafia cum dolore obfcur© ad coftas fpurias, oppreflione pe&oris, fputis faepe cru- entis, orthopnoea, anxietate; cingulum praecordia ftringens queruntur aegri; angulos oris faepe retra- hentes delirant; quandoque lethargo vel cataphora laborant; pulfus eft inaequalis, inordinatus, intermit- tens, durus; hypochondria intro traifta; refpiratio fine motu diaphragmatis ; facies jam pallet, jam rubet; calor eft urens ad praecordia internus. Scripft ficut obfervavi in meis aegiis. Sagarus. Paraphrenitis—Pneumonia. Cullenus. Species of Paraphrenefis, according to SauvageS). are, 1. Paraphrenefis diaphragmatica. Paraphrenitis. Boerhav. 2. Paraphrenefis pleuritica. 3. Paraphrenefis hepatica.SURGERY. 99 1. Pain (775.) uncommonly acute du- ring infpiration, and darting in its di- rection, and confequently in the hypo- chondres. 2. Refpiration accelerated, imperfect, becaufe chiefly performed by the inter- coftal mufcles. 3. Hiccup (753.) and convulflon of the mufcles of the face, named rifus fldoni- cus. 4. Peculiar ficknefs at ftomach. 5. Aggravation of the enumerated fymp- toms upon the neceflary attempts to dif- charge excrement. Cure. 928. Paraphrenfy (926.) obvioufly will yield to the fame remedies employed againft pleurify (910.). Stomach-Inflammation. Appellations. Gastritis. Inflammatio ventriculi. River. N 2TOO ELEMENTS op Dolor ventriculi. Bonet. Cardialgia inflammatoria. Tralless Febris STOMACHICA INFLAMMATOi RIA. Hoffman. Inflammation de l’estomac. Definition. 929. Inflammation (776.) occupying the ftomach (ventriculus) *, * Gastritis—Dolor epigaftrii, naufea, vomitu- ritio, febris typhodes, vel remittens, maligna. Sau- Vagesius. Gastritis—Inflammatio ventriculi. Febris am- phemerina, lipyria, anxietas, vomitus ingeftorum, car- dialgia. Linnaeus. Gastritis—Ventriculi inflammatio ; febris lei- pyria, dolor et ardor in epigaftrio, fitis, vomitus in- geftorum, fingultus. Vogelius. Gastritis—Phlegmafia ftipata dolore epigaftrii, ardore, tenfione, fni, naufea, vomitione, fxngultu, et pyrexia acutiflima. Sagarus., Gastritis—Pyrexia typhodes; anxietas; in epi- gaftrio ardor et dolor, ingeftis quibuftibet auctus; vo- mendi cupiditas, et ingefta protinus rejefta; fingultus. £ULLENUS. Species of Gaftritis, according to Sauvages, ire, j. Gaftritis legitima, _lor SURGERY. t Diagtiojlic. 930. Inflammation of the ftomach (929.) is known to have taken place by the fol- lowing fymptoms, which are a good deal peculiar to this affe<5lion. 1. Acute pain (775.) in the epigaftric region, efpecially if fubjedled to any pref- fure. 2. Vomiting (706.), efpecially when any fubfiance, however mild, is fwal- lowed. 3. Hiccup (753.) more or lefs conflant and fevere. 4. Pulfes (144.) generally fmall and hard. Special Cure. 931. The peculiar importance of the ilomach diredls to the mofl deciiive mea- Febris Jlomachica. Hoffman. 2. Gaftritis traumatica. Meyzerey. 3. Gaftritis a veneno. Hoffman. Febris malignae fpecies. Meyzerey. 4. Gaftritis eryfipelatofa. River. ■ 5* Gaftritis fterno-coftalis. 6. Gaftritis exanthematica. Hoffman. /» Gaftritis herniofa, Garengeot./ 102 / ELEMENTS op 4 / fures to conduct inflammation of it (929.) to difcuflion (782.), becaufe any of the other terminations of this affection (781.) cannot fail to prove highly difaftrous, if not fatal; indeed, death (26.) and mor- tification (788.) of this organ feem to be infeparable. Its high fenfibility difpofes inflammation to proportional violence and rapidity. 932. The earliefi: employment of the antiphlogiftic remedies (815.), for the rea- fons enumerated (931.), is manifeftly pro- per. The peculiar fun&ion of the fto- mach may admit of an advantageous ap- plication of tepid bath (410.), or milk rendered mildly tepid for this purpofe, may be fwallowed in fuch quantity as the fto- mach can retain. Anodynes (119.) may perhaps be bell applied to the inferior part of the alimentary canal *. * It is only in the cafe of phlegmonic inflamma- tion that we can advife the cure or refolution to be attempted by large and repeated blood-lettings em- ployed early in the difeafe; and from thefe we are not to be deterred by the fmallnefs of the pulfe ; for, after bleeding, it commonly becomes fuller and fofter. After bleeding, a blilter ought to be applied to the region of the ftomach ; and the cure will be afliftedSURGERY. 103 \ Clyster. Appellations. Enema. Lavemens. Injection. Glyster. Dejinition. 933. Any fluid fubfiance injedled into the alimentary canal, or inteflinal, through its inferior extremity (anus). 934. Inflammation of the flomach (929.) producing impofthume (786.), rupturing towards the cavity of this organ, will ma- nifeft itfelf by the pus (784.) being dif- charged upwards or downwards. Heal- ing is, as much as may be, to be .acquired by the mildefl management. by fomentations of the whole abdomen, and by fre- quent emollient and laxative glyfters. Dr Cullen’3 Pratt. of Phyfic, § 372.io4 ELEMENTS of PUORRHOEA. Definition. 935. Difcliarge of pus (784.) by ftool *. 936. Little fpeciality can be pointed out by anatomy (16.) in the ftrudture of the ftomach to evince that its inflamma- tion (929.) fliould be peculiarly determined to the modification named eryfipelatous f. Experience does not fantftion this idea J. * Puris finceri ex alvo excretio. Vogelius. f See Rofe or Eryfipelas. ^ Eryfipelatous inflammations of the ftomach are more frequent than thofe of the phlegmonic kind. It appears al leaft from diflections, that the ftomach has often been affeded with inflammation, when neither pain nor pyrexia had given any notice of it; and fuch nve judge to have been of the eryfipelatous kind. This kind of inflammation alfo is efpecially to be expected from acrimony of any kind applied to the ftomach, and would certainly proceed more frequently from fuch a caufe, were not the interior furface of this organ commonly defended by a mucus exfuding in great quantity from the numerous follicles placed imme- diately under the villous coat; on many occafions, the exfudation of mucus is prevented, or the liquid pour- ed out is of a lefs vifeid nature, fo as to be left fitted10S SURGERY. Gut-Inflammation. Appellations. Enteritis. Chordapsus. Inflammatio intestinorum. Sen. Febris intestinorum inflamma- TORIA. Hoffman. Febris iliaca inflammatoriai Ejufdem. Enterophlogia. Meyzerey. Inflammation des boyaux. \ ' * Intestinal inflammation. to defend the fubjacent nerves; and it is in fuch cafes that acrid matter may readily produce an eryflpela- tous affe&ion of the ftomach. From what has been faid, it muji appear, that an eryfipelatous inflammation of the ftomach may fre. quently occur, but will not always difcover itfelf, as it fometimes takes place with pyrexia, pain, or vomit- ing. Inflammation of the ftomach is of two kinds; phleg- monic, or eryfipelatous. The firft may be be feated in what is called the nervous coat of the ftomach, or in the peritonaeum invefliug it: The fecond is always feated in the villous coat and cellular texture immedi- ately fubjacent. Dr Cullen’s*Pracl. of Phyfc, § 377, 373, 364- VOL. 11. OELEMENTS of io6 Definition. 937. Inflammation (776.) occupying any portion of the alimentary or intefti- nal canal, below the ftomach f. f Enteritis—Dolor circa umbilicum vehemens, cum meturifmo, pyrexia acuta, ileo vel dyfenteria. Sauvagesius. Enteritis—Inflammatio inteftini Febris ex eva- cuatione abdominis, colica atroci, tenfiva, calente, Linnaeus. Enteritis—Tnteftini inflammatio ; febris affodes, phricodes, cruciatus ventris intolerabilis, flatuum et ftercoris retentio, aut dyfenteria. Vogelius. Enteritis—Phlegmafia acuta, cujus fymptomata funt tenfio tumjda et valde doloriifica, taftum non tp- lerans, partium abdominis inteflinis relpondentiurp, puna pyrexia, meturifmo, quandoque et ileo, vel dyfen- teria. Saga hus. Enteritis—Pyrexia typhodes; dolor abdominis pungens, tendens, circa umbilicum torquens j vomitus, alvus pertinaciter adftrifta. Cullenus. Species of Enteritis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Enteritis iliaca. Febris iliaca. Hoffman. 2. Enteritis colica. _ Chordapfus, Galeni. ■y Enteritis flatulenta. Meteorifmus. VulgO. . . /SURGERY. 107 % Diagno/Uc. \ 938. Inteftinal inflammation (937.) is afcertained to exift chiefly, by, 1. Pain (775.) in the abdominal cavity, acute and fixed. 2. Difturbed function of the inteftines, productive of obftrudtion, and confequent- ly of coftivenels (720.) and vomiting (7°6.) *. 939. An accurate difcrimination be- tween inteftinal inflammation (937-) and colic (756.) is eflential to a proljperous cure of the former. 4. Enteritis mefenterica. Pblegmone mefenterii. Alpin. Mefenterii injlammatio. Sennert. 5. Enteritis enterocelica. Meyzerey. * Enteritis may be known to be prefent by a fixed pain in the abdomen, attended with a pyrexia, coftive- nefs.and vomiting. Pra&ical writers mention the pain, in this cafe, as felt in different parts of the abdomen, according to the different feat of the inflammation ; and fo indeed it fometimcs happens; but very often the pain fpreads over the whole belly, and is felt more efpecially about the navel. Dr Cullen’s Pracl. o/Pbyftc, $ 384. O 2ELEMENTS of 198 Special Cure. 940. The cure of inteftinal inflamma- tion (937.) is conduced on the lame plan with that of the like affedtion of the fto- mach (931.). 941. Suppuration (785.) acceding to in- teftinal inflammation (937.)* and burft- ing towards the cavity of the gut, will neceflarily produce purulent purging (935). 942. Mortification (788.) of the intef- tine within the abdominal cavity can hardly fail to induce death (26.), by lofs of function of this indifpenfible organ, and by the diffulion of its contents over con- tiguous bowels. 943. Inteftinal inflammation (937.) is not feldom fymptomatic (44.) of colic (756.), of intuffufception *, and of rup- ture *. Its cure neceflarily implies pre- vious attention to the idiopathic (43.) affection f. * See Intuffufception and Rupture. 3 The enteritis and gaftritis arife from the like <iaufes; but the former more readily than the latter.SURGERY; 109 944. May not furgery (96.) attempt to form an artificial anus * when inteftinal inflammation (937.), ending in mortifica- tion (788.), is otherwife certainly to be fol- lowed with death ? a plan not feldom executed by the plaftic power (73.) f. *. * . ' i • : I 1 1 ■ .«*•«! Liver-Inflammation. t: Appellations. Hepatitis. Febris icteriodes. Galeni. Febris typhodes. Forejl. Inflammatio hepatitis. Semiert. Hepatalgia. Dolor hypochondrii dextri. JBonet. Inflammation du foye. Douleur du foye. r I from cold applied to the lower extremities, or to the belly itfelf. The enteritis has likewife its peculiar caufes, as fupervening upon the fpafinodic colic, incar- cerated hernia and volvulus. Dr Cullen’s Praci. of Phyftc, §3 7*5. * See Gastrotomy. + See an elaborate fpeculation and fads relative to gaftrotomy, by M. Helvin, in vol. iv. of the Me- moirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery,ELEMENTS of no Definition. 945. Inflammation (776.) refldent in the liver *. * Hepatitis—"Dolor, tenfio, calor in regione lie- patis, cum pondere, tufli ficca, refpiratione difficili. Sauvagesius. Hepatitis—Inflammatio jecinoris ; amphemerina, tuflis ficca, afthma, fingultus, hypochondrii dextri ten- fio calens. Linnaeus. Hepatitis—Jecinoris inflammatio; febris conti- nua, hypochondrii dextri dolor tenfivus, tuflis ficca, itterus, interdum vomitio bilis et per alvum dejeitio. Vogelius. Hepatitis—Phlegmafia acuta, cujus fymptomata funt tenfio dolorifica hypochondrii dextri fub coftis fpuriis,cum fenfil ardoris ac gravitatis ; dyfpnoea, tufli ficca, faciei colore flavefcente, fiti, anorexia, faepius et fingultu, vomitione et tumore hepatis, pulfus elt fubdu- rus, tenfus, urinae ifleritiae, biliofae, lerum fanguinis mi{fi et crufta fubflava, febris quafi Temper remittens. Sagarus. Hepatitis—Pyrexia ; hypochondrii dextri tenfio et dolor, faepe pungens pleuritici inftar, faepius obtu- fus ; dolor ad claviculam et fummum humeri dextri; decubitus in finiftrum latus difficilis ; dyfpnoea ; tuflis ficca; vomitus; fingultus. Cullenus. Hepatic a—Jecinoris dolor hypochondrii dextri. Linnaeus.SURGERY. in 946. The liver, partly from various pe- culiar circumftances, is frequently the feat Hepatalgia—Molefta fenfatio, gravativa, tenfiva, aut alia quaevis in regione hepatis, fine pyrexia acuta. Sauvagesius. Hepatalgia—Mulefta fenfatio gravativa, tenfiva, aut quaevis alia in regione hepatis, fine pyrexia acuta; Sagarus. Species of Hepatitis, according to Sauvages, are^ 1. Hepatitis eryfipelatofa. Lufitatii, Hepatitis a bile. Jonftoni. Hepatitis biliofa. Bontii. 2. Hepatitis pleuritica. St/fpirium irrupt am. iEgiuetae. 3. Hepatitis mufcularis. Etmuller. 4. Hepatitis cyftica. Boneti. 5. Hepatitis obfcura. JonJloni. Species of Hepatalgia, according to Sauvages, 1. Hepatalgia calculofa. Colique hepatique. 2. Hepatica fcirrhofa. Scirrhus hepatis. Scirrhe ait foye. 3. Hepatalgia infarctus. Tumor hepatis fimplex. Sennert. InfarElus hepatis. Juncker, ObjlruEHon du foye. are,112 I LAMENTS of of inflammation (776.), the chief fymp- toms of which are 1. Pain (775.) in its region, or in the right hypocliondre, fometimes fhooting to the correfpondent fhoulder. 2. Hiccup (753.), from the proximity of the midriff. 3. Vomiting (706.), from the proximity of the ftomach. 4. Jaundice (719.), according to fitu- ation. 5. Symptomatic fever (691.), fometimes attended with infatiable thirft. 6. Swelling (772.), difcoverable by touch, is fometimes difcernible. Special Cure. 947. Every exertion is requifite to carry liver-inflammation (946.) to difcuflion 4. Hepatalgia intercus. Bartholin. 3. Hepatalgia aeruginofa. Colic a fpafmodica Angelim onta noru m. Scheuch- zeri. 6. Hepatalgia farcomatofa. Mangeti. Excroijfance clu foye. 7. Hepatalgia apoftematofa. Bartholin, Abfces an foye. Civadier. 8. Hepatalgia Petitiana. Petit. 9. Hepatalgia deceptiva. Billebault.SURGERY. ii j 0 (782.). Any other event, if not fatal, is in general infinitely perilous. 948^ Suppuration (785.) acceding to li- ver-inflammation (945.), fometimes de- ftroys life before the pus (784.) procure any vent * ; which, when procured, is ac- cidentally various as to diretffion and con- fequences. 949; The pus (784.) formed by liver- inflajnmation (945.) may be poured into 1. The alimentary canal, and may be voided by vomiting (706.) of purging (935.), or by both manners. 2. The correfpondent pleuritic- cavity * Father. D , of the fociety of Jefus, about flxty years of age, fomewhat corpulent, after a great exertion to prevent his falling on the llreet during froft, inftelntly perceived a pain, loon followed by the other fymptoqis of liver inflammation, particularly hiccup and infiipportable drought. No external ap- pearance of the affection was detected. In confequence bf confutation between the late Dr Rutherford and myfelt, the molt liberal blood-lettings, &c. were em- ployed. After two weeks, death put an end to a moll fexcruciating fitu ition, fupported svith the molt manly fortitude. DHTedion dil’covcred a very large impoft- Ijlihk in the fubltance of the liver. Vot,. II, p114 ELEMENT So? having deflroyed a portion of the midriff, and thus form empyema (908.) ; and if the lungs be injured, part of the pus (784.) may be ejedled by fpitting, and hedlic fe- ver (693.) be kindled. 3. The peritonial cavity. 4. The gall-bladder ; Having deflroyed the peritoneum, ab^> dominal mufcles, may be 5. Spontaneoufly or artificially ejedted f When hepatitis has ended in fuppuration, the pus collected may be difcharged by the biliary dudfsi or if the fuppurated part does not any where adhere clofely to the neighbouring parts, the pus may be dif- eharged into the cavity of the abdomen; but if du- ring the firft date of inflammation, the affected part {hall have formed a clofe adhefion to fome of the neighbouring parts, the difcharge of the pus after fup- puration may be various, according to the different feat of the abfcefs. When feated on the convex part of the liver, if the adhefion be to the peritoneum lining the common integuments, the pus may make its way through thefe, and be difcharged outwardly ; or if the adhefion fhall have been to the diaphragm, through this into the cavity of the lungs, and from this may be difcharged by coughing. When the ab- fcefs of the liver is feated on its concave part, in con- fe pence of adhefions, the pus may be difcharged into the ftomach or inteftines, and into thefe laft either df-SURGERY. 115 930. The varied direction (949*) which fuppurated liver-inflammation (945.) may aflume gives occafion to much attention, which may ufefully, in fome cales, em- ploy inciflon *. 951. It is probable, that in few cafes only of liver-inflammation (945.) has life endured till mortiflcation (788.) has ac- ceded. 952. Symptomatic (44.) liver-inflam- mation (945.) cannot be cured till the idiopathic affection (43.) be fubdued. 953. The diftindlion of liver-inflam- mation (945.) into chronic (47.) and acute (46.) does not promife much ad- vantage j*. rectly, or by the intervention of the biliary dufls. Dr Cullen’s PraEl. of Phyftc, § 399* * See Incision and Oneotomv. + Inflammation of the liver feems to be of two kinds; the one acute, the other chronic. The chro- nic hepatitis we only difcover to have happened, by our finding large abfcefles in the liver, which are pre- fymed to be the effect of fome degree of inflamma- P 2ELEMENTS of ji6 Spleen-Inflammation, Appellations. Splenitis, Lienis inflammatio. Sennert, Dolor hypochondrii sinistri, Plater. Dolor lateris sinistri. Sennert. Inflammation de la rate. Douleur de ta rate. Definition. 954. Inflammation (776.) ^flfetfling the fpleeri (lien) *, tion. As this chronic inflammation is not to be cer- tainly known, and therefore does not lead to any cer- tain pra&ice, we omit treating of it here. Dr Cul- len’s PraB. ofPhyfc, § 39°- 392* * Splenitis—Dolor, tumor in regione lienis, ta- fturn vix tolerans, cum febre ut plurimum remittente. Sauvagesius. • ' I Splenitis — Inflammatio lienis. Febris tetarto- phia, refpiratip interfefta, hypochondrii finiftri tumor pulfatorius. Linnaeus. Splenitis—Lienis inflammatio; febris continue, liyppchondrii finiftri diftenfio atque tumor, dolor pul* funs, inoleftus dexter decubitus. Vogelius.SURGERY, 117 Diagnoflic. 955. Spleen-inflammation (954-) is ftia- nifefted by Splenitis—Cognofdtur haec phlegmafia febre re- mittente, faepius tetartophia, tumore, duritie in regi- one lienis, dolore tadum fagiente pulfatili, calore, dyfpnoea, pulfu in infpiratione intermittente, in carpo jini/iro magis, et abfentia fymptomatum nephriticorum ; frigent hi aegri artubus; calor interims non eft adeo magnus; fanguis niiflus eft crufta inflammatoria tedus; cibi adeft faftidium, decubitus in latus fmiftrum diffici- lis, fitis et anxietas: Semel obfervavi hunc morbum ficut ilium hie deferipfi. Sagarus. Splenitis—Pyrexia, hypochondrii finiftri tenfio, calor, tumor, et dolor preflu audus; abfque fignis ne- phritidis. Cullenus. SplenaLgia—Dolor aut moleftia in regione lienis fine pyrexia*acuta. Sauvagesius. Splenalgi a—Molefta fenfatio gravativa, tenfi^a, aut quaevis alia in regione hepatis, fine pyrexia acu- ta. Sagarus. Species of Splenitis, according to Sauvages, 1. Splenitis phlegmonodea. Species of Splenalgia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Splenalgia infardus. Objlruclio lienis. Sennert. ObJiruElian de la rate.ELEMENTS of i r8 i . Pain in the region of the fpleen. 2. Swelling (772.) or tenlion. 3. Symptomatic fever (691.). Kidney-Inflammation. Appellations, Nephritis. Renum inflammatio. Sennert, Phlecmone renum. Alphii, Nephralgia. Zwingeri, Dolor nephriticus. Inflammation des reins. * Renal inflammation. Definition. 956. Inflammation (776-) affecting a kidney (ren) *. 2. Splenalgia fcirrhofa. Scirrhe a la rate. 3. Splenalgia fuppuratoria. Stalpart. 4. Splenalgia farcomatofa. Lien ingens. Blancard. Rate de grojfeur enormc. * Nephritis—Dolor acuius in regione renum, juxta ureteres, in veficam tliredlus, cum febre acuta, dyfuria, ifchuriave, Sauvagesius.SURGERY, 119 Diagnojlic. 957. Kidney-inflammation (956.), from common as well as peculiar caufes, is not a rare affedlion : it is difcrimmated by, Nephritis—Synochus irregularis, naufea, fingul- tus, ru&us, urinae varietas, obftipatio, lumbago urens, femoris ftupor, inflammationem rerris indicantes. Lin- naeus. Nephritis—Renis inflammatio, febris acuta, do- lor ardens in regione renis, urina pauca, flammea, vel nulla, ftupor cruris vicini, dolor teftis vicini, ruflus, vomitio. Vogelius. Nephritis—Phlegmafia, pyrexia acuta, dolore renum inflammatorio, urinae ardore, mi&ione fre- quenti ftipata; dolor fequitur ureteres, teftis retra- liitur, rotatur, crus ftupet, plerumque adeft vomitio, fine augmento doloris aeger poteft corpus ad anteri- ora flexum erigere. Sagarus. Nephritis—Pyrexia; dolor in regone renis, fae- pe ureteris iter fequens ; miclio frequens urinae, vel tenuis, decoloris, vel ruberrimae ; vomitus ; cruris ftu- por ; tefticuli ejufdem lateris retra&io aut dolor. Cullenus. Nephralgia—Dolor lumbi alterutrius, ureteris duftum fequens, cum naufea, teftis retrattione in viris, cruris ftupore in feminis. Savvagesius. Nephralgia—Dolor fixus in regione renum et ureterum, fine pyrexia acuta. Sagarus.120 ELEMENTS OP u Pain in the region of the kidney fhooting in the direction of the ureters Species of Nephritis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Nephritis vera. 2. Nephritis calculofa. Pi/on. 3. Nephritis arthritica. Hoffman. Species of Nephralgia, according to Sauvages^ are, 1. Nephralgia calculofa. Swinger. Calculus renum. Sennert. Calcul des reins. 2. Nephralgia arenofa. Bonet. La graville. 3. Nephralgia arthritica. Mufgrave. 4. Nephralgia rheumatica. Sydenham. Lumbago rheumatica. /j. Nephralgia hyfterica. Sydenham. 6. Nephralgia haemorrhoidalis. Nenteri, Nephritis fpuria. Nephralgia plethoric a. 7. Nephralgia purulenta. Bonet. 8. Nephralgia a pancreate. Mangcti. 9. Nephralgia verminofa. River. jo. Nephralgia mefenterica. Mercklinis 11. Nephralgia monftrofa. 12. Nephralgia a carie. Vandermonde. 23. Nephralgia febricofa. Morpon. 14. Nephralgia miliaris. Hamiltoni. 15. Nephralgia fcirrhofa. Sachs. Nephralgia a lienis luxatione. Bonet. 26. Nephralgia gravidarum. Puzos. \y. Nephralgia haematurica. Tralles.SURGERY. 121 numbing the thigh, or retracting the te- Iticle of the correfpondent fide. 2. Difturbed function of the affeCted or*- ganj fometimes diminiihed, fometimes to- tally fupprefled (714;)* Not feldom the u- rine is bloody (242.). 3. Vomiting (706.) and ficknefs at Ito- inach. 4. Symptomatic fever (691.); The Stone. Appellations. Calculus. Materies calculosa. Calcul. Tartar* Gravelle. Gravel. Definition. 958. Stone-like matter (1.), varioufly fized, furfaced, and folid, generally lafni- nated, or confifting of concentric layers (itiata), including a central portion or ker-* nel (nucleus). Vol. II. Q_ELEMENTS of 122 * See Lithotomy. 959. The ftone (958.) has been found in almoft every point of the animal fabric, but is peculiarly abundant in the urinary paffages, exciting much torment, and its extraction affords great fcope to chirurgic ingenuity *. Calculous Habit. Appellations. Lithiasis. Diathesis calculosa. Definition. 960. A peculiar conftitution of body fa- vouring the generation of the ftone (958.). Formation of Stone. 961. Cbfervation feems to evince, that, there is conftandy prefent in the animal fluids a calculous matter (958 ), which readily coheres, and is formed into maffes in certain circumftances : thefe fmall and numerous in the urinary tubes are named gravel.IOI SURGERY. f 962. A circumftance favourable to the formation of the ftone (958.) is the prefence of any folid fubftance that may become a kernel (95*8.)* This is foon, in general, involved with calculous incruftation. 963. A leaden ball, a needle, a portion of a tobacco-pipe, fragments of various other fubftances, have been detected as affording kernels (9 >8.) to calculous maffes in the bladder of urine. 964. In the urinary paffages, it would appear, that, the kernel (958.) of the ftone (958.) is moft frequently afforded by the kidnies, and, confequently, from thefe or- gans, the ftones (9,8.), as yet fmall, pe- netrate to the other parts of the urinary furface, with various diftrefsful progrefs. 965. Does the matter whofe concretion forms the ftone (958.) prevail in one indi- vidual more than in another ? or varioully in the fame individual at different peri- ods ? What idiofyncrafy (272.) or caufe can be affigned for fuch a fa6t ? Is it he- reditary (51.) ? What relation does the Q_2*24 ELEMENTS of ftone (958.) bear to the ofleous matter, and *0 the matter named tophaceous * ? 966. The ftone (958.) is very frequent-? ly an occafional caufe (60.) of kidney-? inflammation (945.)* a circumftance de-r ferving much attention, becaufe thus ex- cited, and the caufe continuing to adl, the? affedtion will be more violent and obfti- nate than in oppofite circumftances. 967. It is a lamentable truth that might a priori be demqnftrated, which now in- deed is tacitly confefled, that, moft part of the drugs which from time to time have been extolled as lithontriptics (124.), are totally inefficacious, and thofe that really poflefs any fuch power cannot be permit- ted to exert it within the urinary paflages,, and particularly, cannqt be carried into * Tophus—-Any gritty qr earthy matter abound- ing in fome mineral waters, and concreting qpon the Tides of veflels th?y are long contained in, or to hard bodies lying in them ; whence alfo, for its likenefs thereunto, it is applied to the chalky fubfiance which is fometimes depofited upon the joints of arthritic perfons. Quincy.125 SURGERY. contact with the (lone (958.) in the kidney, the mode of application the moft aufpi- cious. # Special Caret 968. In every view, a vigorous and early direction of the antiphlogiftic reme- dies (815.) againft kidney-inflamraation (945.) to procure difcuffion (782.) is a juft practice. Dilution (411.) maybe much adopted. 969. The function of the kidney is more indifpenlible to the vital Hate (25.) than that of fome other organs. The difafters neceffarily following its fuppura- tory inflammation (785.) cannot be fmall, Purulent Urine. Appellations. Pyuria. PuOTURIA. PlSSEMENT DU PUS.136 ELEMENTS of Definition. 970. A difcharge of pus (784.) by the urinary paflages *. * Pyurta. — Puru'.entae, albefcenti., aut vifcido- mucofae materiae mictio. Sauvagesius. Pyuria—Purulent&e, albae, flavae, aut luteolen- tae materiae cum urinis mindtio. Sagarus. Puoturia—Mittio purulenta. Vogelius. Species of Pyuria, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Pyuria renalis. Ulcus ureterum. > Pijjement dit pjts. 2. Pyuria veficalis. Bonet. Ulcere a la vefte. 3. Pyuria a corde. Bonet. 4. Pyuria a thorace. Ejufdem. 5. Pyuria vifcida. Deidier. Glaire des reins. 6. Pyuria mucofa. Rams veficae morbus. Hoffinan. Catarrhus veftcae. Lieutaud. Gins. Linnaei. Glaire de la vejjie. 7. Pyuria Iadtea. Uiemerbroechi. 8. Pyuria chylofa. Urines blanchatres. \ ieuflens. g. Pyuria arthritica. JJrina cretacea. Hundertmarck- Ulcus renum. Sennert.127 SURGERY. * See Nephrotomy. 971. A purulent matter (784.), blend- ed more or lefs with the urine, may in- dicate the acceffion of fuppuration (785.) to kidney-inflammation (945.). 972. Kidney-inflammation (945.) has been communicated to the lumbar mufcles and integuments, and the fuppuratory Rate (785.) has been detecled, or appeared externally, under the form of impofthume (786.), and fpontaneoufly or artificially ruptured, has afforded vent to the flone (958.) that had been its occafional caufe (60.). 973. It is only when kidney-inflamma- tion (945.) excited by the flone (958.) has difcovered itfelf externally (972.) that the variety of lithotomy named nephrotomy * can be attempted, although anatomy points out the poffibility of carrying in- cifion into the fubflance of the kidney without wounding the peritoneum. The Unties blanches. 10. Pyuria a mefenterio. Bond. 11. Pyuria nigra. 12. Pyuria virefcens.ELEMENTS of 128 uncertainty of the prefence of the ftone (958.) is an additional argument againft operation (973.) till the event mention- ed*'. Bladder-Inflammation. Appellations. a Cystitis. Vesicae inflammatio. SennerL Cystiphlogia. Meyxerey. . Inflammation de la vessie. Definition. * 1 974. Inflammation (776.) of the blad^ der of urine (vefica urinae) f. * See a diflertation of great utility on this intereft- ing fubject, in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, vol. iv. p. 233, by M. Laffete. f Cystitis—Dolor, tumor, tenfio hypogaftrii, cum dyfuria vel ifchuria. SAuvagesius. Cystitis—Inflammatio veficae. Febris, dolor hy- pogaftrii, cum tumore inflammatorio, dyfuria, te» nefmo. Linnaeus. Cystitis—Veficae urinariae inflammatio. Febris129 SURGERY. Diavnojlic. • 975. Bladder-inflammation (974.) is Chiefly diftinguifhed by, 1. Pain in the region of the bladder of urine augmented by every exertion of the organ itfelf, or of the abdominal and rc- fpiratory mufcles, or by preflure and agi- tation. Jevior, hypogaftrii dolor ardens, prefiorius, frequenS meiendi ftirnulus, ifchuria, tenefrrius. Vogel ius. Cystitis— Phlegmafia, cujus praeripua fyrnpto- mata funt intumcfcentia ovalis in pelvi, cum tenfioue, dolorc rattum non tolerante, dyfnria, vcl ifchuria, et pyrexia arnphemerina ; adfunt infuper vigiliae, fun, fubin delirium, extremorum frigus, tenefrnus, vel ob- ftipatio : Pulfurn obfervavi tenfum, fubdururn, natu- rali frequentia et celeritate non multum rnajorem ; in fanguine miflb cruftarn tenuem albam, fubgelatinofam, clyfmatum difficilem inje&ionern. Scribo ticut obfer- vavi. Sagarl'3. Cystitis—Pyrexia, hypogaftrii tumor et dolor ; miftio frequens dolorifica, vel ifchuria ; tenefmu';. CULLENUS. Specif.s of Cyftiti;, according to Sauvages, arc, 1. Cyftitis fpontanea 2. Cyftuis a cantharidibus. 3. Cyftitis traumatica. VOL. II. R130 EL EM ENTS of 2. Tenfion or fwelling of the hypogaftric region. 3. Micturition, or frequent and painful urgency to difcharge urine, of which a to-’ tal fuppreffion (714.) may accede. 4. A morbid and frequent defire (494-) to void excrement (faeces). 5. Swelling (772.) perceptible fometimes to the finger in the ftraight gut (reCtum). 6. Symptomatic fever (691.) in propor- tion. 976. The ftone (998.) which may have fallen from the kidney (964.), or may have been generated in the bladder of urine, may prove an occafional caufe (5o.) of inflammation of this organ, (974.) a cir- cumftance difcoverable by founding *. Special Cure. 977. When bladder-inflammation (974.) is difcovered to be excited 1}y the ftone (958.), (an aggravation is commonly deno- minated a fit of the ftone), a perfedt cure, or indeed a comfortable alleviation is fcarcely to be expeCted, while fuch a # See Catheterism.SURGERY. J See Ulcer. powerful occaflonal caufe is permitted to aCt. 978. The ftone (958.) in the bladder of urine admits of the application of Lithon- triptics (124.) by injeCtion *. Experience has fully evinced, that, as yet medicine can- not boaft of being polfelfed of any fuch, effectual and at fame time fafe. The variety of lithotomy named cyftotomy 'j', is the only certain mode of removing it. 979. Bladder-inflammation (974.) is con- ducted to difcuflion (782.), in general, by the antiphlogiftic remedies (815.). The te- pid bath (408.) to the bladder of urine it- felf, to the ftraight gut, and externally in the form of poultice (826.) to the re- gion of the former organ, is applicable and may be conducive. 980. Bladder-inflammation (974.) fuf- fering fuppuration (785.) may give puru- lent urine (970.) and ulcer J, or be pro- ductive of a deltruCtion more or lefs ex- # See Introduction. t See Cystotomy.132 ELEMENTS of tenfive, fo as to permit the urine to flow by the groin, paflage of the womb, &c. Womb-Inflammation. Appellations. • Metritis. Hysteritis. Inflammatio uteri. Sennert. Febris uterina. Inflammatio uterina. Inflammation de la matrice. Definition. 981. Inflammation (776.) occupying the womb or uterine fyftem (uterus) * Metritis—Dolor et tumor in regione et ex- tenfione uteri, ac lumbis, et inguinibus, cum febre. Sauvagesius. Metritis — Hanc phiegmafiam adeffe nofcimus tumore, ardore, dolore, gravitate in regione uteri, et pyrexia acuta ; digiti in vaginam immilfi os uteri ta- <fhim non fert, idem valde calet; adelt dolor ad ingui- na, femora, diaphragma, qui ad claviculas extenditur, cum dyi'pnoea, naufea, vomitione, fmgultu, obftipatione, ifehuria vel dyfuria, horrore perpetuo, frigore extre- morum, delirio, ja&atione, fpalmis, dolore oculorum jSURGERY. *33 Diagnojiic. 982. Inflammation of the womb (981.), which may be excited by peculiar circum- ftances, is afcertained to exift by the fol- lowing fymptoms chiefly : 1. Pain in its region acute and con- ftant. 1 pulfus varius, animi deliquia, fopor, tetanus, catalepfis, obiervantur, cum febre plerumque remittente. Sa- garus. Hysteritis—Inflammatio uteri. Febris, delirium, fpafinus, fardiafis, dolor hypogaftrii tumorque calens. Linnaeus. Hysteritis—Uteri inflammatio. Febris varia et lenta phricodes, aut quotidiana continua, dolor colicae fimilis, egefliones chylofae, et ichorofae, nullo doloris fenfu defluentes. V^gelius. Hysteritis—Pyrexia; hypogaftrii dolor, calor, tenfio, tumor; os uteri taftu dolens; vomitus. Cul- LENUS. Species of Metritis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Metritis puerperarum. Mauriceau. 1. Metritis typhodes. Fievre maligne avec inflammation de P uterus. 3. Metritis lactea. Depot laiteux avec flevre aigue. Puzos.ELEMENTS of *34 J See Ulcer. 2. Swelling (772.) perceptible to the finger in its pafTage (vagina uteri). 3. Difturbed excretion of urine and excrement (494.). 4. Symptomatic fever (691). 983. The womb is peculiarly liable to inflammation (776.) after parturition, either tedious or violent *, a period at which the flate of this organ is favour- able peculiarly to its inroads. Special Care. 984. Every exertion ought obvioufly to be made to carry womb-inflammation (981.) to difcuflion (782.). The tepid bath (408.) maybe from time to time admini- ftered by injection t-> 985. Suppuration (785.) acceding to womb-inflammation (981.) cannot fail to be exceedingly deflrucflive, if not fatal. Ulceration % is fometimes confequent. The pus (784.) may be difcharged by the paf- fage (vagina uteri). * See Difficult Parturition. -j- See Introduction.SURGERY. t$s 986. Has not womb-inflammation (981.), acceding after parturition, been miftaken for proper puerperal fever (517.) ? Peritoneal Inflammation. Appellations. Peritonitis. Epiploitis. Omentitis. Mesenteritis. Myocolitis. Inflammatio peritonaei. Inflammation de l’opiploon. Definition. 987. Inflammation (776.) affecting the inverting membrane of the lower belly (peritoneum) *. * Peritonitis—Peritonaei inflammatio; febris affidua, tumor ventris, et dolor pun&orius. Voge- lius. Peritonitis—Pyrexia, dolor abdominis, corpore ereclo audlus ; abfque propriis aliarum phlegmafiarura abdominalium fignis. Cullenus.136 ELEMENTS o? Diagnojlic* 988. Peritoneal inflammation (987.) is known by the general fymptoms of inflam- Epiploitis—Dolor circa hypogaftrium, et umbu licum, juxta epiploi extenfionem. Sauvagesius. Epiploitis—Bis obfervavi hanc phlegmafiam, fe- mel in viro ruftico 30 annorum, ec femel in quadra- genaria muliere, cum fequente charaftere : Febris erat mitis amphernerina, virium non adeo magna pro- ftratio (rufticus venerat ipfus quarta die niorbi pro confilio ad me), lingua alba tumidula, fanguis miflus coriaceus, obftipatio non pertinax, dolor obtufus infra peritonaeum ad attaelum paululum acutus, tumor omenti, refpiratio fufpiriofa, pulfus durus, naturali celeritate et frequentia non multum major, fitis medi- ocris, urinae flavae, appetitus aliquis, aliquis et foninus. Sagarus. Epiploitis—Peritonitis. Cullenus. Omentitis—Omenti inflammatio ; febris conti- nua, cum dolore et tumore in regione epigaftrica et hypogaftrica. Vogel 1 us. Omentitis—Peritonitis. Cullenus. Mesenteritis—Mefenterii inflammatio ; febris varia, occulta et lenta, phricodes aut quotidiana con- tinua, dolor colicae fimilis, egeftiones chylofae et icho- rofae, nullo doloris fenfu defluentes. Vogelius. Myocotitis—Mufculorum abdominalium inflam- matio ; fymptomata ut in peritonitide. Vogelius.SURGERY. i37 mation (776.) particularly of abdominal inflammation when the anterior part of the peritoneum lining the abdominal mufcles is inflamed, a peculiar inability of railing the body to the perpendicular attitude is produced. 989. Peritoneal inflammation (987.) af- ter child-bed, from the fudden alteration of dimenlion and other circumstances, is a frequent affedtion, and does not feem to have been properly difcriminated by prac- titioners from puerperal fever (517.) *. Loin-Inflammation, Appellations. Lumbago psoadica. Fourdyce. Species of Epiploitis, according to Sauvages, is, x. Epiploitis vera. Roebrnan. * I have obferved two cafes of peritoneal inflam- mation immediately confequent to child-bearing af- fume the fuppurative termination, and produce im- polthume, which buidt externally : The fituation was near the groin. VOL. II. 5138 ELEMENTS of Lumbago apostematosa. IsCHIAS EX ABSCESSU. Lumbago ab arthrocace. Morbus coxarius. Be Haen. Arthropuosis. Cullen. Definition. 990. Inflammation (776.) affedting the loins or lumbar parts internally *, 991. Loin-inflammation (990.) is mark^ ed by 1. Pain in the back lower than the kid^ nies. 2. Symptomatic fever (691.) j\ * Lumbago esoadica—Inflammation of the cel- lular membrane lying under the pfoas niufcle. Four- DYCE. Arthropuosis—Dolores artuum, vel partium mu* fculari'um, faepe port contu.fionem, profundi, obtufi, diuturni ; tumor vel nullus, vel modicus, et diffufus; phlogofis nulla ; pyrexia primum lenis, tandem hefti- ca ; et tandem partis apoftemS. Cullenus. f It (inflammation of the cellular membrane lying under the pfoas mufcle) agrees very much, excepting for the fituation, in its fymptoms, progrefs, and ter-. Diagfiofiic.SURGERY. *39 S 2 Cure. 992. The cure of loin-inflammation (990*) feems to confift in no fpeciality. mination, with the inflammation of the liver, i. e. the pain is fituated in the back, for the moft part rather lower than the region of the kidnies. Both it and the other fyrnptoms of inflammation are flight, and feldom attended with a great degree of general in- flammation. The difeafe commonly terminates in fup* puration ; notwithllanding which, the pain fometimes continues, falling gradually lower. In other refpe&s the ufual fyrnptoms of internal fuppuration arife, l'uch as irregular coldnefs, he£tic fever, &c. The pus makes its way through the cellular mem - brane, fometimes into the cavity of the abdomen^ when it is fatal; fometimes externally in the thigh, a little on the outflde of the lymphatic glands in the groin ; fometimes it appears in the loins ; or difletts along the abdominal mufcles to the fpine of the re<flum, and forms a tumor with flu&uation in the hip; or it pafles down to the pelvis, and gets to the peritoneum, or refembles the hemorrhoids ; often producing caries in the bones of thefe different parts, or inability of moving the mufcles. Fourdyce’s Elements of Phyfict p. 264.ELEMENTS of 140 Joint-Inflammation. Appellations. Arthropuosis. Phlegmone articuli. Definition. 993. Inflammation (776.) of an articu> lation or joint. 1. Pain acute and much aggravated by preflure or motion. 2. Swelling (773.) more or lefs confi- derable, often without any difcolouration, at lead in its earlier periods. 3. Diminilhed function. 4. Symptomatic fever (691.). 994. Left joint-inflammation (993.) fhould induce incurable alteration of the articular ftrudlure, every method of pro- curing its difeuflion (7S2.) ought time- oufly to be adopted: its fituation permits Diagnojlic. Special Cure.SURGERY. 14* the combined influence of the general (824.) and topical (826.) antiphlogiftic re- medies cottimodioufly. 995. Suppuration (785.) of joint-in-^ flammation often converts the capfular cavity into impofthume (786.), arid finally affedls the bones, and deftroys the liga- ments, producing erofion and ulcer * ex- ternally. It not feldom proves fatal 996. Giving vent artificially (843.) to the pus (784.) of joint-inflammation (993.), a meafure of eafy execution is in its effects not a little precarious ||. As the al- teration of the parts, however* will be as the detention of the pus, the fooner it is difcharged healing is more likely to fuc- ceed. * See Ulcer. + I lately difie&ed 3 middle-aged man, in whofe larger joints, cfpecially the knee and fhoulder ones, a very confiderable quantity of pus was contained ; the ligaments and articular extremities of the bones con- cerned were not a little affetted. 1 have not been informed refpe&ing the particular hiftory of this safe, t See Oncotomy. || See Dr Hunter’s Medical Commentaries.142 ELEMENTS of Bone-Inflammation. t Appellations. Arthrocace. Paedarthrogace. Spina ventosa. Phlegmone MEDULLARIS.' Epine venteuse. Definition, 997. Inflammation (776.) exifting with- in a bone or in its cancellated Itru£ture (cancelli) *. . . i V t: J > i . • J * Arthrocace—Ulcus medullae offium, faepius in epiphyfibus, cum exoftofi et dolore. Sauvagesius. Arthrocace—Ulcus medullae cum carie offis. Arthrocace—Ulcus malignum, tumens, dolore aftocopo. Linnaeus. Arthrocace— Ulcus medullae ab interioribus fponte natum, cum offis carie, exoftofi, et perfaepe dolore. Sagarus. Arthrocace—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Paedarthrocace—Tumor offis, dolore gravis, in exulcerationem tendens. Vogel ius.SURGERY. *43 4 See Incision and Trepanation. DiagnoJltc. 99$. Bone-inflammation (997.) is indi- cated by 1. Fain intenfe, and referable to the in- terior portion of the bone in which it is refldent. 2. Swelling (772.) of the bone *. 3. Inflammation (776.) of the covering foft parts, at leaft, in its advanced Hate, this affedtion neceflarily accedes. 4. Symptomatic fever (691.). Special Cure. 999. If the molt afliduous attention fhall be unable to prevent bone-inflamma- tion (997.) from reaching luppuration (785.) and tending to enlarge and deftroy the bone, no objection can be Hated againft artificial opening (843.) f. On the contrary, it is a pradtice in every re- fpedt juftifiable. * See Exojlofis.ELEMENTS of *44 External Inflammation. iooo. The principal varieties and deno- minations of external inflammation (878.) may now be considered. Carbuncle. Appellations, Anthrax. Carbunculus, Pruna. Ignis persica. Charbon. Definition, 1001. Inflammation (776.) peculiarly Intenfe, and commonly ending in mortifi- cation (788.) * Anthrax—Phyma (protuberance), apice gan- graenofum, ambitu inflammatum. Sauvagesius. Anthrax—Glandula fubcutanea, infiammata, in fuppurationeni malignam vergens. v Anthrax—Tumor rotundus, eryfipelaceus, im- merfus, dolentiflimus, fuppurandus, apice acuto, puitu- !a purifera. Linnaeus.SURGERY. 145 Diagitoflic. 1002. The diagnoftic (71.) of car- buncle (1001.) is chiefly derived from Anthrax—Quali malignus furunculus, qui partem ' mox adurit, pultulas circum fe ardentiirimas ciet; tan- dem crufta nigra vel cinerea obducitur, et corruptae carnis lobum excutit; quo excedente, ulcus cavum fordidum manet. Vogelius. Anthrax—Phyma apice gangraenofum, et in ra- dice inflammatum. Sagarus. Ca rbunculus—Tumor valde durus, exatro rubens et lividus, qui parum levatur, Ted carni inferiori quali alfixus, dolor ardentiflimus elt, et qualis ab adurenti- bus efl’c folet : non, ut furunculus, in pus vertitur; fed fuperveniente gangraena, putrefcit. PlaTNERUs. Charbon—Une tumeur rouge, un peu dure, ronde, elev£e en pointe, accompagnee d’une douleur vive, d’une chaleur brulante, et d’unl grofle puitule dans le milieu, ou de plufieurs petites, qui fe changent en une croute noire, comme li Pon y avoit aplique un fer chaud. Villa rs. ! Species of Anthrax, according to Sauvaces are, 1. Anthrax fimplex. Anthrax fporadieus. 2. Anthrax inalignus. Charbon ptjlilcntiel. 3. Anthrax Perficus. Pruna et ignis Perficus. Avicennae. VOL. II. Tt I 146 ELEMENTS of 1. Rapidity of progrefs. 2. Tendency to mortification (788.)* particularly about its central portion. 1003. Carbuncle is mild and fporadic (50.), or malignant and peftilential (52.). The former may be confidered as idiopa- thic inflammation (43.), the latter as ex- anthematous (542.) or metaftatic (830.), efpecially when connected with plague (544-)- Special Cure. 1004. Mild carbuncle (1001.) feems to demand no fpeciality of cure. An early well conducted application of antiphlo- giftic remedies (815.), particularly local ones (826.), is likely to diminifh or fuper- fede its tendency to mortification (788.), and confequently expedite the healing pro- cefs. Le mal des arderrs. Le feu du St Antoine. 4. Anthrax tarantatus.T 2 '47 SURGERY. / Boil. Appellations. Furunculus. Clou. Furuncle. Definition, 1005. Inflammation (776.), its extent fmaller and its degree lefs fevere tlian thofe of carbuncle (1005.) *. * Furunculus—Tumor inflammatorius, cutane- us, prominens, durus, et atro-ruber, cujus centrum, cum fuppuratus eft, occupant fibrae craflae, quae in pus non colliquefcunt. Sauvagesius. Furunculus-^—Tuberculum acutum apoftemato- des; ovnm columbinum magnitudine non excedens. V OGELIUS. Furunculus — Tumor inflammatorius, cutaneus feu fubcutaneus, prominens, profunde ruber, fphae- roideus, cujus centrum occupat vertex fibrofus, digeri nefciens ; ordinario juglandis habet magnitudinem. Sagarus. Furoncle—Tumeur phlegmoneufe, dure, dou- leureufe, d’un rouge vif tirant le pourpre, egalement ronde, s’elevant en pointe, qui n’excede pas ordinaire-148 ELEMENTS o? Diagnojlic. 1006. Boil (1005.) may occupy any point of the cutaneous furface. It is feldom folitary, rarely produces fymptomatic fe- ver (691.), circumltances fufficiently dif- criminative. Special Cure. 1007. The local antiphlogiftic remedies (823.) will be of fuflicient influence, if not to difcufs (782.), at lead, to circum- fcribe boil (1005.), and, of courfe, to pro- mote healing. ment la grofleur d’un euff de pigeon, et qui ne flip- pure jamais entierement. Villars. Species of Furunculus, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Furunculus dothien. Clou ordinaire. Common boil. 2. Furunculus terminthus. 3. Furunculus phygothlon. Pan us vel panis.I •* SURGERY. 149 Rose-drop. Appellations. Gutta rosea. Gutta rosacea. Bacchia. Varus. Dejinition. 1008. Furuncle (1005.) lituated in the face, fmall fized, not folitary, and more or lefs chronic *. * Gutta rosea—Maculae faciei rubrae, gutta- tae, parum prominentes, aut afperae, et diu perma- nentes. Sauvagesius. Gutta rosea—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Gutta rosacea—Varus quafi confluens, cum ru- bedine afpera, maculofa. Vogelius. Gutta rosacea—Cutis faciei efflorefeentia, chro- nica, variis tuberculis, vel puftulis phlogifticis, phlogo- deis, fquamofis, vel ulcerofis, exafperata aeftu, et do- loribus lancinantibus molefta faepius evadit. Haec cu- tis defoedatio vernacule vifage coupreufe audit. Lieu- taud. Bacchia—Varus faciei, cum nodis maculifque co- loratis chronicis. Linnaeus. r150 ELEMENTS of Burning. Appellations. COMBUSTURA, Encausis. Bacchia—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Varus—Tuberculum durum, conftans. Sauva* gesjus. Yarus—Puftulae gland.ularum febacearum, rq« brae, difperfae, chronicae. Linnaeus. Varus—Tuberculum in facie durum, exiguum, ru- brum, fere callofum, difperfum, multiplex. Voge- LIUS. Varus—Tumor pifi magnitudine, plerumque fub- durus, non fuppurandus aut defquamandus, pertinax, in glandulis febaceis. Sagarus. Varus—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Species of Gutta Rofea, according to SauvageSj are, ! • Gutta rofea {implex. ? ‘Taches hepatiques. 3 Goutte-rofe. Turner. 2. Gutta rofea herpetica. Sennert, Couperofe dartreufe. 3. Gutta rofea fyphilitica.SURGERY. tfi Encauma. Ambustio. Adustum. Brulure. Scalding. 1009. Inflammation (776.), its occafional caufe (794.) fire *. Le cbapelet. 4. Gutta rofea febrilis. Meyzerey. * Combustura,—Vulnus igne fa&um, inducia ef- chara. Linnaeus. Encausis—Inflammatio cutis ambuftione. Voge. LIUS. Ambustio—Plaga a flamma ignis corporibufque ex igne candentibus, liquidis ferventibus, aut radiis fobs in focum coadtis, noftro corpori illata, fuccedenti- bus phaenigmo, phlyclaenis, vel efchara. Sagarus. Ambustio—Continui folutio a materia externa adurente caufata, cuticulam Temper, cutem plerumque nonnunquam etiam mufculos, venas, arterias, nervos, atque tendines laedens. Blancardus. Definition, Corona Veneris. Couronne de Venusl5* ELEMENTS of Diagfiojlic. 1010. The occafional caufe(ioo9.) fur" nifhes the diagnoftic (71.) of burning (1009.). ion. Organized (15.) matter (i.),efpe- cially living (25.) matter, is readily alter- able, and deftrudlible by the adtion of fire : it is, perhaps, the moft adtive of all the occafional caufes (791.) of inflam- mation (776.). This affedtion, excited by it, is not fpecifically different from that excited by other applications 1012. The violence and extent of the inflammation induced by fire (794.), will neceffarily be in proportion to the quanti- ty applied, the duration of its adlion, and the date of the parts it affedls. 1013. The capacities of bodies (i.)'f to retain fire is various : that of the body, by means of which, the fire exciting- inflammation (776.), has been applied, and the degree of accumulation being * Proportion iv. in § 807. f See Crawfurd on Animal Heat.S U R G E R Y. *53 given, an afliftance may be deduced to efti- mate the degree of injury. 1014. In confequence of the aCtion of Ere on the living llruCture (25.), this Sometimes fuperficially afFeCted with in- flammation (776.), generally covered with vefication (287*), at other times the de- ftruCtion is profound, extended, and en- crufted, or mortified (788.). 1015. The difference between burning and corrofion, or the action of fire and cauflics (127.) may perhaps confift in ithe former producing a diflipation of the more volatile component parts, and the latter chemically attracting fome of them. 1016. Symptomatic fever (691.), often to a fatal pitch, attends very conftantly any confiderable burning (1009.) Special Cure. 1017. An immediate and proportioned application of the antiphlogiftic remedies (815.) is efpecially indicated in the cure of burning (1009.), t0 prevent, as much Vol. 11. UELEMENTS of *54 as may be, the accefiion of fiippuration (785.) and mortification (788.), which ac- ceding require treatment as taught. Suppofed Remedies. 1018. The exquifitc increafe of fenfibi- lity attendant on burning (1009.) not on- ly interdicts the touch of any ftimulant fubftance (120.), but claims the moft bland and foothing coverings, and confe- quently the propriety of the application of the following fubftances, fuppofed to be its remedies, is rendered not a little pro- blematical. 1. Vinous fpirit*. Spiritus vinofus. 2. Salt of lead f. Saccharum faturni. 3. Lime-water. Aqua caleis. * See PlaTner. Injlit. Cbirurg. 5 146. | See Goulard on Lead. See Aikeh on Preparation: cf Lead.SURGERY. *T5 Chilblain. Appellations, Pernio. Erythema pernio. Mules. Engelure. Kibe. Definition. 1019. Inflammation (776.) induced by- cold, principally infefting the feet j~. 1020. Cold or diminilhed temperature, efpecially if fuddenly induced, is capable of altering and deftroying living organi- zation, whether animal or vegetable. In f Pernio—Cutis rubor, ardens, pruriens a frigo. re, in exulcerationem tendens Sauvagesius. Pernio—Partis uftio gelu facta. Pernio—Pars alba coeruleRens, tempeftatibus re- crudeLens, faepe exulcerans. Linnaeus. Pernio—Tumor rnbens, pruriens, dolens, prae- ternaturalis, a frigore brumali, praecipue in pedibus manibus excitatus. Blancardus. Pernio—Phlogofis, Cullenus. U 2156 ELEMENTS of a certain degree, its effedl excites chilblain (1019.), which is fometimes flight and fu- perficial, and fometimes aggravated, and ending in mortification (788.). 1021. Not feldom the effect of cold is fo intenfe as inftantaneoufly to extinguifh the vital condition (25.) of the parts, within its reach, without any intervening inflam- tnation (776.). • Cure. 1022. No valid argument occurs to evince the propriety of adopting any fpe- ciality of cure of chilblain. The topical antiphlogiftic remedies (823.) will in ge- neral fufhce againft its flighter inftances. Ophthalmy. Appellations. Ophthalmia. Pi t u 1 t a. Horatii. Lippitudo. Celfu OdJLI I NFL A MM AT 10. Dolor oculi. Sennert.SURGERY, *57 Ophthalmoponia. Ophthalmitis. Chemosis. Ophthalmie. Mal aux yeux. Definition. 1023. Inflammation (776.) of the eye- ball and its lids j\ f Ophthalmia—Dolor oculi, cum rubore, lucis jntolerantia, et lachrymatione. Sauvagesius. Ophthalmia—Oculi dolor. Linnaeus. Ophthalmia—Inflammatio albi oculorum. Vo- gelius. \ Ophthalmia—Rubor et dolor oculi, lucis into- lerantia. Cullenus. Ophthalmia cognofcitur ex oculi dolore, rubore, intolerantia lucis, et lachrymatione, vel liccitate. Sa« garus. Ophthalmites — Inflammatio interiorum oculi membranarum, et praecipue choroideae ; dolor in oculo fere intolerabilis, cum febre, cephalalgia, agryp- nia, delirio. Vulgo Pblegtnone dicitur. Vogel I us. Chemosis—Vehemens adnatae oculorum inflam- matio, ut fuper corneam feratur, acerbus dolor, per- verfio palpebrarum, cephalalgia, agrypnia. Vo ge- nius.ELEMENTS op DiJlinElioii. 1024. Ophthalmy (1023.) may be na- med fuperjicial when it affedts only the Species of Ophthalmia, according to S^uvages, are, 1. Ophthalmia taraxis. Taraxts. Aetii. Ophthalmia notha. Sennert. Ophthalmia catarrhalis. St Yves. 2. Ophthalmia Trichiafis. Trichiaife. St Yves. 3. Ophthalmia puftulofa. Pojlh ia. Graecor. 4. Ophthalmia Trachoma. JEginetae. Dafymma, fi fit herpetica. Tylofis, fi callofa. Tyfco/is, fi pultulae crafliores fuerint. 5. Ophthalmia ficca. Xerophthalmia. iEginetae. Ophthalmia angulos oculi ajjiciens, St Y ves. Ophthalmiae quintafpecies ah acrimohid. Mezerey. 6. Ophthalmia puftulofa. St Yves. Ophthalmie bourgeor.ee. 7. Ophthalmia eryfipelatofa, St Yves. 8. Ophthalmia humida. Ejufdem. Epiphora. Galeni. Ophthalmia vera. Sennert. 9. Ophthalmia fcrophulofa. jo. Ophthalmia tenebricofa. Hy drophthalmia. Graecor. Exophthalmia.24. Ophthalmia metaftatica. Meyzerey. \ SURGERY. i £9 anterior furface of the eye-ball, and pro- Gutta ferena. Aliquorum. II. Ophthalmia fyphilitica. Baglivi. Ophthalmia Gallica. Zacuti. Ophthalmia venerea. Camerar. Ophthalmie venerienne. St Yves. • 12. Ophthalmia chimofis. Ejufdem. Chemofis. Aetii. Ophthalmia traumatica. Meyzerey. 13. Ophthalmia choroides. Ophthalmie interne. 14. Ophthalmia angularis. Injlammatio carunculae lachrymalis. St Yve9. Ophthalmie angulaire. 15. Ophthalmia cancrofa. Cancer palpebrarum. St Yves. Cancer des yeux. 16. Ophthalmia a fynechia. Mauchartii. 17. Ophthalmia a lagophthalmo. 18. Ophthalmia ab cleomate. Mauchartii. 19. Ophthalmia ab ungue. Ejufdem. Unguis vel onyx. Abfceffus corneae. St Yves. 20. Ophthalmia a corneae fiftula. Mauchart. 21. Ophthalmia phlydenodes. BhlyElaina. Phlyclaenae corneae. Sennert. 22. Ophthalmia uveae. 23. Ophthalmia febricofa. Morton.%6o ELEMENTS of found when it attacks its coats, Idc. more deeply and generally f. Diagnojlic. 1025. Profound ophthalmy (1023.) is chara&erifed by, 1. Pain deep feated, intenfe, and dart- ing, in the direction of the axis of the Eye-ball. 2. Headach fevere and torturing. 3. Symptomatic fever (691.) attended Sometimes with raving (420.) Hypophyon. Definition. 1026. Impoflhume (786.) formed in the eye-ball f Inflammation of the eye may be confidered as of two kinds, according as it is feated in the membranes of the ball of the eye, when we name it Ophthal- mia Membranarum, or as it is feated in the feba- ceous glands placed in the tarfus or edges of the eye- lids, in which cafe it may be termed Ophthalmia Tarsi. Dr Cullen’s PraEt. of Phvfic, § 272. * Hypopyon—Abfceflus intra oculum. Voge- uus.It • SURGERY. i6i i Special Cure. 1027. Ophthalmy (1023;), particularly when profound (1025.), is to be prevent- ed, as much as may be, from fuppurating (785.) by a refolute application of the an- tiphlogiltic remedies (815.), an event, that, in the nature of things, mult be ei- ther greatly or totally deltruCtive of light. 1028* Topical blood-letting (824.), ef- fected by wounding the dillended velfels of ophthalmy (1023.)*, is an inaufpicious practice in fpeculation : in application it has been found to be very conliderably hurtful f. The caufe may perhaps be the irritation of the wounds thus inflicted. /Leeching (372.), performed in the vicini- ty, is a preferable mode. 1029. The eye-ball is excellently accef- fible to the tepid bath (408.) in every form. * See Incision. 1 t ^ many cafes of ophthalmia, the moj} effectual remedy is fcarifying the internal ftirface of the infe- rior eye lid, arid cutting the turgid velTels upon the adnata Itfelf. Dr Cullen’s Pracl. of Phyfic, § 276. Vol. II. XELEMENTS of 162 Some objeftions have been ftated to the ufe of poultice againft ophthalmy, found- ed on the fuppofition that it increafed in- flammatory heat, while it induced a hurt- ful relaxation. Are thefe its eflefls ? and to what is the fpeciality to be afcribed ? Collyrium. Definition. 1030. A liquid medical compofltion or formula for the eye-ball and its lids. 1031. The fuppofition now related (1029.) has fuggefted the propriety of cooling and aftringent (121.) applications to ophthalmy (1023.), the expediency of which admits of queftion. Gum-Inflammation. Appellations. f 1 Odontalgia. Dolor denyium..SURGERY. 163 Rheumatismus odontalgicus. Hoffman. Paradontidas. Parulis. Paroulis odontagra. Heifier. Mal aux dents. Gum-boil. Toothach. Definition. 1032. Inflammation (776.) feated in the gum (gingiva) *. * Odontalgia—Dolor maxillarum dentiumve. Sauvagesius. Odontalgia — Dentis dolor maxillaris. Lin- naeus. Odontalgia—Dolor dentium. Vogelius. Odontalgia — Dolor dentium maxillarumque, cum vigiliis et faepius ptyalifmo, maxillae aut gena- rum tuinore, Sagarus. Odontalgia — Rheumatifinns vel arthrodynia maxillarum a carie dentium. CullEnus. Parulis—Tuberculum dolens, inflammatum, in gingivis. Vogelius. Parulis—Apoftema gingivarum. Sagarus. X 2164 E L E M E N T S of 1033. Gum-inflammation (1032.) is mo ft commonly fymptomatic (44.) of difeafed tooth *, a circumflance which, when detedled, calls for previous atten- tion f. 1034. Gum-inflammation (1032.) is fit- ly treated by the antiphlogiftic remedies (815.). Its fuppuration (785.), peculiar- ly denominated gum-boil is likely to Species of Odontalgia, according to Sauva ges, are, 1. Odontalgia carictfa, Fauchart. 2. Odontalgia gravidarum. Mauriceau. . 3. Odontalgia catarrhalis. ‘Juncker. Fluxion fur la dent. 4. Odontalgia fcorbutica. Eugaline. 5. Odontalgia dentitionis. La dentition. 6. Odontalgia arthritica. Mufgrave^ 7. Odontalgia haemodia. Stupor dentium. L’agacement des dents. 8. Odontalgia hyfterica. 9. Odontalgia ftomachica. * See Caries. t See Tooth-drawing. f See Mr Hunter’s ingenious Treatife on the Teeth, p. 29.SURGERY. accede, provided difeafed tooth, the ex- citing caufe, is allowed to remain. Every attention is requifite to prevent its burft- ing fo as to give deformity. Parotid. Appellations. Parotis. PaROTIDIS PHLEGMON2. Parotide. Oreillon. Definition* 1035. Inflammation (776.) feated in a parotid gland (parotis) *. * Parotis — Tumor fcirrhofo-phlegmonoidcus glandulae parotidis diftae, in fuppuratum lentiffime vergens. Sauvagesius. Parotis—Tumor glandulae ejufdem nominis. Vogelius. Parotis—Tumor fcirrhofo-phlegmonoideus pare-, tidis glandulae, in fuppurationem lentiffime vergens. Sagarus. Parotis—Bubo. Cullenus:t m ELEMENTS of DiJlinElion. 1036. Like carbuncle (1001.), parotid may be benign (50.) or malignant (52.). Special Cure. 1036. Becaufe the convoluted flrudfure of extreme arteries in glands probably dif- pofes them to fuffer obftrucflion or other derangement, and, of courfe, proportional lofs of function in confequence of being affecfled by inflammation (776.), it feems every way expedient to diredl benign pa- rotid (1035.) to difcuflion (782.), and if fuppuration (785.) has acceded, to give to the pus (784.) early an artificial vent (843.). Parotide—Une tnmeur contre nature, qui oc- cupe les glandes parotides. Elle eft dure, phlegmo- neufe, et fouvent oedemateufe. Villars. I Species of Parotis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Parotis benigna. Parotide fimplex. 2. Parotis febrilis. He tittert.SURGERY. 167 Ear-inflammation. Appellations. Otites. Otopuosis. Otoplatos. Otalgia. Dolor otalgicus. Spasmus otalgicus. Definition. 1038. Inflammation (776.) refident ip. the paflage of the ear and its vicinity *. * Otites—Inflammatio auris internae, dolor im- manis in aure, febris, cephalalgia, agrypnia, delirium. Vogelius. Otopuosis—Pnris ex aure effluxus; catarrhus auris fordidus. Vogelius. Otoplatus—Humiditatis olidae retro aurem ex- credo. Vogelius. Otalgia—Dolor aurium. Sauvagesius. Otalgia—Auris dolor. Linnaeus. Otalgia—Dolor auris internae et externae. Vo- gel lUfr.168 ELEMENTS of? Special Cure. « . , * 1039. The requifite delicacy of the or- gan of hearing, fo likely to fuffer a hurt- ful alteration from inflammation (776.), makes its difeufhon (782.) an event not a little defirable. Reaching fuppuration (785.), a degree of deafnefs (732.), or fome more difaftrous change may enfue. Breast-inflammation. Appellations. Mastodynia*- Mamillae inflammatio. Mammae piilegmone. Douleur aux Mammelles. Definition* 1040. Inflammation (776.) refident in the breaft or milk glands (mamma) *, Otalgia—Dolor in aure. Sagarus. Otalgia—Phlogofis. Cullenus. * Mastodynia — Dolor mammarum. SauVa* CE8IUS.SURGERY. 169 1041. The female bread, efpecially foon after parturition, when its glands are pre- Mastodynia—Mammarum dolor. Vogelius. Mastodynia—Dolor mammarum. Sagarus. Mastodynia—Phlogolis. Cullenus. Species of Mallodynia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Mallodynia phlegmonodes. Cajlro. Mammillae injlammatio. 2. Mallodynia puberum. Krameri. 3. Mallodynia pilaris. Cajlro. 4. Maltodynia cancrofa. Cancer mammarum. Caftro. Cancer aux mammelles. 5. Mallodynia polygala. Sparganjis. Diofcorid. Laclis redundantia. Caftro. Depot laiteux aux mammelles. PuZ03. 6. Mallodynia butyrofa. Vandermonde. 7. Mallodynia emphyleinatofa. Cajlro. 8. Mallodynia apollemacofa. Abfcejfus' mammarum. Caftro. 9. Mallodynia portentofa. Graecor. VOL. II, YELEMENTS op jjo paring to commence the fecretion of milk, is peculiarly obnoxious to inflammation (776.), a circumftance by fome referred to changes, which the milk, ftagnating in the excretory du£ls, fuffers, as its caufe. 1042. Breaft-inflammation (1040.) al- ways a painful and frequently a moll de- ftrudlive aflfedtion as to the function of fe- cretion, often is extended fo as to involve the whole of the organ. Special Cure. 1043. The termination of bread-inflam- mation (1040.) by difcuflion (782.) is pe- culiarly to be wilhed for. Exhaufting the milk du&s, when neceffary, by the gen- tlefl: fu&ion, may contribute not a little to aflift the influence of the antiphlogifllic remedies (815.); whofe adoption ought to be made as foon as the phlogiftic tendency is marked. 1044. The unfortunate event, fuppura- tion (785.) of breaft-inflammation (1040.), having taken place, makes the affording of an artificial vent (843.) to its pus (784.) a practice of great propriety. TheSURGERY. 171 j fituation of the opening claims fpecial at- 1 tendon. Whitlow. appellations. Paronychia. Panaricum. Panariticum. Reduvia. Panaris. Paronychie. Felon. Definition. 1045. Inflammation (776.) affecting a. Anger, generally its extremity *. * Paronychia—Phlegmone extremi digiti, cum dolore perterebrante. Sauvagesius. Paronychia—Serum corruptum fub tendinibus perioftioque. Paronychia—Partis rubor dolentifiimus, os de- ftruens. Linnaeus. Paronychia—Inflammatio dolotifica in fumraitate digitorum. Vogelius. Y 2172 ELEMENTS of 1046. Whitlow (1045.) is a very com- mon affection. Three varieties, differen- ced by depth of fituation only, may be taken notice of. 1. That which is refident in the inte- guments. 2. That which affedls the tendinous, {heaths. 3. That which feizes the periofteum and bone. Paronychia—Inflammatorius tumor extremi di- giri, cum dolore faepius perterebrante, calore, tenfio* ne, et fubin cum rubore. Sagarus. Paronychia—Phiogofis. Cullenus. Species of.Paronychia, according to Sauvages, 1. Paronychia cutanea. Par-onychiae prima fpecies. Heifteri. Panafs cutanc. 2. Paronychia perioftei. Garengect. 3. Paronychia tendinis. Paronychiae tertia fpecies. Heifter, 4. Paronychia ardtura. Linnaei. 5. Paronychia digitmm. ? Digit turn. 6. Paronychia prefTura Prejfura. 7. Paronychia artificialis. Ejufdem. Ejufdem.SURGERY. 173 Special Care. 1047. According to quantity and vio- lence whitlow (1045.) requires antiphlo- giftic treatment (816.) : The pain is often exceedingly intenfe, ftretching to the palm, and even to the wrift, inducing propor- tional tumefadlion (772.), and not feldom Symptomatic fever (691.), to be Succeeded by mortification (788.), as well of a por- tion of the Soft parts as of the bone. Suppofed Remedies. 1048. The following have been propo- sed as remedies tending to carry whitlow (1045*) to diScuflion (782.). 1. Incifion or wound more or leSs pe- netrating. 2. Immerfion in hot water. 3. Vinous Spirit f. + Haec inflammatio (paronychia), et non, nifi ab initio difcutitur, ubi nondum penitus infedit. Ad id vero maxime poflit aqua, quantum tolerari poteft,y>r- vida, in quam digitus demittitur, et per multurn tem- pus in ea relinquitur. .Alii magis idoneum efle volunt fpiritum Vini cum camphora, &c. Platneri Injlit. Chirurg. § 146.ELEMENTS op *74 Bubo. . Appellations. Bubo. Bubon. Dcjuiition. 1049. Inflammation (776.) occupying an inguinal, or (in an extended accepta- tion) any lymphatic or conglobate gland *, * Bubo—Tumor partim fcirrhofus, partim inflam- matorius, glandulae unius aut alterius inguinalis, Sauvagesius. Bubo—Tumor glandulae inguinalis. Vogelius, Bubo—Glandula conglomerata, inflammata, in fup. purationem vergens. Linnaeus. Bubo—Glandulae conglobatae tumor fuppurans, CULLENUS. Bubo—Phyma fcirrhofo-phlegmonoideutn in glan- dulis inguinalibus. Sacarus. Bubon—Tumeur phlegmoneufe, ronde ou ovale, dure, accompagnee d’ inflammation, de chaleur, de rougeur, de pulfation, et de douleur, qui vient ordi- nairement aux glandes conglobees des aines. quelque fois a celles, des aifelles, et du cou, Villars.SURGERY. J75 DiftinEtions. t 1050. Bubo (1049.), a frequent affec- tion^ is fometimes idiopathic (45.), fome- times fymptomatic (44.) ; hence thd fol- lowing diftindtions and appellations. 1. Simple -j 2. Febrile 3. Syphilitic }» Bubo. 4. Scrophulous I 5. Cancerous Species of Bubo, according to Sauvages, are, r. Bubo (implex. Bubon. 2. Bubo fyphiliticus. AJlruc. Cambirea. Paracelfi. Pore lain. 3. Bubo fcropbulofus. Bubon fcrophulcux. 4. Bubo peftilens. Bubon pejlilentiet. 5. Bubo crefcentium. Les croijfances. 6. Bubo fcorbuticus. 7. Bubo axillaris. Hatte.1J6 ELEMENTS of i. Simple Bubo. Diagfioflic. 1051. Simple or idiopathic bubo is not of difficult detection (69.). The rapidity of acceffion, independent of no pre-exifting morbid affeCtion (28.), is a ftrong dia- gnoftic circumftance* Cure. 1052. No fpeciality feems to exift in the cure of ffinple bubo (1051.): Difcuffion (782.) is obviouily its molt eligible termi- nation (781.). 2. Febrile Buboi Diagnojlic. 1053. The variety of fever (266.) na- med plague (54.) is moft commonly pro- ductive of bubo (1049.); on this account it is fometimes named peftilential. The connection is eafily traced.V. SURGERY. 177 Special Cure. y 1054. Febrile bubo (1053.) may perhaps ibe juftly confidered as a metaftatic (830.) cor exanthematous (542.) affection : Its fup- jpuration (785.), it has generally been fup- j pofed, ought therefore to be promoted and ! effected, at leaft not to be oppofed. 3. Syphilitic Bubo. Diagnojlic. / » 1°55. Syphilitic bubo is very frequent- ly an objedl of the furgeon’s (97.) at- tention, being not a rare occurrence in either fex. Its diagnoftic (69.) is for the moft part obvious. The fyphilitic poifon, its exciting caufe (60.), can often be tra- ced to the point of application, in general a little ulcer* (chancre), from which it had been abforbed, and conveyed by the inter- vening lymphatic veffels. * See Ulcer. VoL. II. £178 ELEMENTSo? Special Cure. 1056. Whatever may be the propriety of fomenting fuppnration (785.) in the fe- brile bubo (1053.), the expediency of a like pradlice with refpebf to the fyphilitic one (1055.) may be juftly queftioned; a painful, tedious, and frequently hazardous fituation is in confequence to be buffered, 9 while no fecurity againft the inroads of the peculiar poifon is*obtained. Attempt- ing therefore its difcuflion (782.) by an- tiphlogiflic remedies (815.), while the idiopathic affeftion is attacked by its pro- per ones (of which mercury is the chief) feems to be the moft eligible plan of cure*. Amputation'f of the affedfed gland, which has been fuggefted, is a procedure not lefs harfh than futile J. 1037. The argument hated for giving an artificial vent (843.) to the pus (784.) * See Simmons’s Treatife an the Venereal Difeajt. f See Amputation. $ See Monro de Veins lymphaticis valvuloJJs, p. 115*SURGERY. 179 of parotid (1036.) is equally valid, with refpecft to that of fyphilitic bubo (1055.) in particular. A moderate dependent m- cifion is perhaps the moft proper mode of forming an opening of it. The proximi- ty of the crural veflels to inguinal bubo fuggefls a caution to the operator, who is iuppofed to be fully qualified to dillin- guifh it from other inguinal fwelling. . 4. Scrophulous Bubo. Diagnojlic. 1058. The king’s-evil (757.) is a modi- fication of difeafe (136.) not difficult to be recognifed, and confequently fcrophu- lous bubo, which is a part or fymptom of it, is eafily difcriminated. The jugu- lar glands is its moll common feat. A plurality often are at once affecfied. Special Cure. 1059. Suppuration (785.) of fcrophu- lous bubo (1058.) induces a deftrudlion of tedious cure, and brings no alleviation Z 2t 180 ELEMENTS ©f of the general affection. Difcuffion (782.) is obvioufly to be aimed at by a proper adminiftration of remedies (815.). Pur- ging, or at lead the ufe of fea-falt, i. e. of fea-water, has been fuppofed to be pe- culiarly proper, as conducive to this pur- pofe. Cancerous Bubo. • I DiagnojHc. - ' 1060. Induration or fcirrhofity in ge- neral, is a preliminary requifite to the ac- ceiTion of inflammation (776.), produc- tive of cancer f, and confequently of can- cerous bubo. Its diagnoftic (69.) will therefore commonly not be of difficult in- veftigation. Succels in this point is very important. Special Cure. 1061. The method of cure of cancerous bubo (1060.) will be collected from the remarks to be made on cancer f in general. * See Scirrhus. •f- See Cancer. J ISURGERY. Piles. Appellations. Proctalgia. Proctitis. Proctica. Clunesia. Fistula ani. Dolor ani. INFLAMMATION DU FONDEMENT. Definition. % 1062. Inflammation (776.) affecting the verge of the anus and its vicinity *. * Proctalgia—Dolor podicis citra tenefmum. Sauvagesius. Proctalgia—Dolor podicis. Sagarus. Proctalgia—Phlogofis. Cullenus. I Proctitis—Inflammatia ani, febris, ppoclica, cum tenefmo. Linnaeus. Proctitis—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Proctica—Ani dolor. Linnaeus. Clunesia—Dolor in podice. Vocelius. Clunesia—Phlogofis. Cullenus.182 ELEMENTS of 1063. From common as well as peculiar caufes, piles (1062.) is a frequent and pain- ful affection; not rarely it is confequent to haemorrhoids (241.). Special Cure. 1064. The general and topical antiphlo- giftic remedies (815.) ought to be early di- rected againft piles (1062.), in order to prevent fuppuration (785.), becaufe expe- Species of ProCtalgia, according to Sauvagf.s, are, 1. ProCtalgia inflammatoria. Senrtert. Inflammation du fondement. 2. ProCtalgia filtulofa. Fiflula atii. Fiflule a I anus. 3. Proctalgia inrertriginofa. Intertrigo ani. Sennert. 4. ProCtalgia ex rhagadibus. Sennert. Gerfures du fondement. 5. ProCtalgia Brafilienfis. Lufitani. Vermis Brafilienfis. 6- ProCtalgia ab exania. Chute de fondement. 7. ProCtalgia ex marifeis. River. Douleur des hemorrhoides. 8. ProCtalgia diarrhoica. p. ProCtalgia tenefmodes* ro. ProCtalgia equina.V SURGERY. 183 rience teaches that this event is not feldom extenfive, deftrudlive of the (Iraight got (retflum), and productive of ulcer of diffi- cult healing, which, under certain modi- fication, is named fiftula ani *. Situation favours the ufe of the tepid bath (408.) in various forms, preventing an accumula- tion in the inteftine, and horizontal po- fture, are circumftances full of utility, and well worthy of attention. Genital Inflammation. Appellations. PUDENDAGRA. Douleur DES PARTIES GENITALES. Definition. 1065. Inflammation (776.) occupying the external genital parts f. * See Ulcer. t Pudendagra—Dolor genitalium citra dyfarU am. Sauvagesius. Pudendagra—Genitalis dolor. Linnaeus. •184 ELEMENTS of io66. Genital inflammation (1065.) is varioufly denominated, and admits of fome Pudendagra—Dolor partium genitalium, turn in viris, turn in feminis. Sagarus. Cedma—Dolor in partibus genitalibus. Voge- lius. Species of Pudendagra, according to Sauvages^ are, 1. Pudendagra a parorchidio. Douleur des tejlicules retires. 2. Pudendagra ex phymofi. Douleur du gland pravenant du phymofis, paraphy- mofis, &c. 3. Pudendagra herniofa. Douleur de hernie. _v m 4. Pudendagra ulcufculofa. Chancres aux genitoires. 5. Pudendagra pruriens. Impetigo fcroti. Fonfeca^ Prurit des parties naturellei. 6. Pudendagra a gonorrhoea. Dyfuria venereaficca. A/truc. 7. Pudendagra arfura. Ejufdem. Incendium virgae. 8. Pudendagra cancrofa. Carcinomata venerea. Aflruc. Douleurs des cancers aux parties genitaleS. g. Pudendagra ab afcaridibus. 20. Pudendagra teftiutn. Gonorrhoea in fcrotum dclapfa.SURGERY. 185 fpeciality of curative application, accord- ing to particular lituation. Clap. Appellations. PUDENDAGRA A GONORRHOEA. Gonorrhoea syphilitica (709.). Gonorrhoea virulenta. Gonorrhoea cordata. Dysuria syphilitica (494.). Dysuria a phlogosi urethrae. Dysuria arsura. Incendium virgae. Ardor urinae. Gonorrhee virulente. Ciiaude pisse. Urethre-inflammation. Virulent running. Heat of urine. CoRDEE. Definition. 1067. Inflammation (776.) feated in the urethre (urethra), excited by fyphilitic poifon (766.). Vol. II. A a186 ELEMENTS oi Dicignojlic. 1068. Other caufes (56.) befides the fyphilitic poifon (766.) may induce in*, flammation of the urethre (1067.): this however is the moft common one. 1069. Clap (1067.) is known to have acceded, after expofure to its original caufe (766.), principally by, 1. Pain, feated in the extremity of the urethre, at firft gentle, gradually fuffering aggravation, it becomes peculiarly keen while the urine is tranfmitting (ardor uri- nae), and in the male, during erection (cordee) ; it is varioufly extended : 2. Gleet (706.) or running, at fir ft thin and fcanty, foon acquiring increafe and conftfterice : it takes the appearance, and perhaps the nature, of pus (784.), which, for fome time, contains fyphilitic poifon (776.) in fufticient quantity, to excite in- flammation (776.) by contadl: 3. Swelling (772.), more or lefs viftble, diminifliing proportionally the capacity of the urethre; 4. Rednefs, more or lefs extended ex- ternally ;A a 2 S tJ R G E R Y. 187 5. Micturition (714.) varioufly painful: 6. Symptomatic fever (691.). This fel- dom attends. 1070. Clap (1067.) makes its appear- ance from three to nine days, or thereby, from the action of its exciting caufe (60.). This is a circumftance much dependent on accident. 1071. It has been fuppofed, that the poifonous matter (776.) generating clap (1067.) is fpecifically different from that which is capable to produce general fyphi- litic affection, becaufe this laft is not often connected with the former. The poffibility of both being caught at once, is a fact per- haps everfive of this diflinction. Special Cure. 1072. The firft indication of cure (817.) cannot be fatisfactorily complied with in regard to clap (1067.) * becaufe the occa- fional caufe has operated or produced its effect before the patient has adverted to it.i 88 ELEMENTS of 1073. The antiphlogiftic remedies (815.) directed againft clap (1067.), in propor- tion to its fymptoms or intensity, are ful- ly curative. The topical ones (823.) in general will have fufficient influence. The tepid bath (408.) in various forms is ap- plicable. Copious dilution (411.) exhibits excellent effects, particularly by diminifh- ing the ftimulant quality of the urine. 1074. Recent and repeated experiments have evinced, that little attention is due to the fpeeial caufe (766.) of clap (1067.) during its cure. As remarked (1071.), the poifon is feldom or never abforbed from the urethre, or, at leaft, its influence is generally confined to that furface. Testicle-Inflammations Appellations. PUDENDAGRA TES-TIUM. Hernia humoralis. Gonorrhoea in scrotum delapsa- Testiculi inflammatio, Empyocele*iScr SURGERY. r '■■■ • t Oscheocele purulenta. r Swelled testicle. Definition. 1075. Inflammation (776.) feated in a tefticle (teftis). Diagnofiic. 1076. Tefticle-inflammation (1075.) is not likely to be confounded with any other affedlion. Afcertaining its being idiopa- thic (43.) or not, is a point of much im- portance as to its cure. It is mod com- monly excited by pre-exifting urethre-in- flammation (1067.) affedling the feminal excreting duels and their fluids. Special Cure. 1077. The confummate delicacy of the organ affected by inflammation in que- ftion, and the deftrudlion of ftruclure it may thereby fuffer, vindicate the fulleft: employment of antiphlogiftic remedies as early as poflible. Profufe topical blood- letting (372.) and poultice (826.), conjoin- ed with horizontal poflure and quiet, are190 ELEMENTS of found to be peculiarly efficient in attain- ing difcuflion (782.). 1078. Suppuration (785.) formed in the tefticle is a deftrudiive event, and may . much deftroy its function. As foon as may be, the pus (784.), with much pro- priety, may be difcharged by artificial opening (843.)- Phimosis. appellation. PlJDENDAGRA EX PHIMOSl. Definition* 1079. Inflammation (776.) of the fore-* fkin or prepuce (preputium) *. I * Phimosis—Phlegmone praeputii, cum hujus ad- ducendi vel reducendi difficultate. Sauvagesius. Phimosis—Praeputii intumefcentia inflammata, glandem denudans incarceranfve. Linnaeus. Phimosis — Tnflammatio aut oedematodes tumor praeputii, quo glans nudari non poteft. Vogelius.SURGERY. * See Operation for Phimosis. Diagnojlic. 1080. Phimofis (1079.) is an evident af- fection, often fymptomatic of clap (1067.). 1081. The topical antiphlogiftic reme- dies ,(823.) will very generally procure dif- cufiion (782.) of phimofis (1079.). It feems to be rafh conduct, without the molf urgent caufe, to divide, by incifion *, Phimosis — Tumor fere Temper inflammatorius praeputii, glandem incarcerans aut excludens ad coro- 11am hancce vinciendo. Sagarus.' Ph I MO SI S—Phlogofis. CUL LENUS. Species of Phimofis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Phimofis vera. Phimofis. Heifteri. 2. Phimofis hydrocelica. 3. Phimofis fyphilitica. Phimofis verolique. 4. Phimofis circumligata. Aflruc. Circumligatura. -Latinor. Paraphimofs. Graecor. Periphimofts. iEginetae.# 5. Phimofis vaginae. Aflruc. 6. Phimofis infantium. Manget.192 ELEMENTS of the difeafed parts, efpecially if fyphilitic poifon is likely to be applied to the wound, becaufe its deftrudtive effedts may be there- by promoted. 1082. A conftridled or narrow flate of the prepuce, preventing the denuding of the gland (glans penis), is often a connate 1 affedlion ; it may other wife exift without , inflammation (776.) ; it is of courfe to be regarded as deformity. Incifion, as its cure, may be freely adopted. Paraphimosis. • ♦ Appellations. PupENDAGRA EX PARAPHIMOSI, I Phimosis circumligata. Definition. 1083. Inflammation (776.) affedling the retradted or difplaced prepuce (1079.) and the gland (1082.), in confequence of the conftridtion it produces *. * Paraphimosis — Inflammatio praeputii retro glandem addufti, ut earn tegere non poflit. VoGij. LIUS.SURGERY* *93 Diagnojlic. I 1084. Paraphimofis (1083.) is an evi- 1 dent affection: it is, in truth, a diflocation* fometimes of the prepuce without inflam- mation (776.), but moft commonly of this duplicature of the integuments already in the ftate of phimofls (1079.). Special Cut'e. 1085. The Ipeciality of cure of para- phimofls (1083.) conflfls in relieving the conftridtion (1083;), which too frequently excites inflammation (776.)’ ending in mortification (788.), varioufly deflrudtive. The application of the antiphlogiflic reme- dies (815.) is of too tardy influence. Re- pofition of the prepuce mult be effected mechanically. 1086. Repofition of the prepuce under paraphimofis (1083.) may be accomplifli- ed by, 1. Diminution of the tumefa<ftion of the gland. o 2. Dilatatidii. * See Dijlocatiorn ? Vol. II. B b. 194 ELEMENTS of £ See Operation for Paraphimosis. 1087. Diminution is attainable by pref- lure properly applied, while the gland owes its enlargement to oedematous affec- tion (796.) *; repeated experience confirms its expediency. 1088. Dilatation is procured by incifion. 1089. In all other refpe&s the cure of paraphimofis (1083.) t 1S the fame as that of phimofis (1079.). Rose. Appellations* Erysipelas- Erythema. Erysifele. Feu sacre. Definition. ~ w- •• -X [ ' 1 1 • 1 * ‘ -5 1090. Inflammation (776.) not much elevated, comparatively cutaneous, fuper- # Tumor cryftallinus. Astruc.SURGERY. J95T : ficial and diffufed, covered with blifters {287.), varioufly- numerous and fizeablfy fometimes Ihifting its lituation *. * Erysipelas. Sec its Definitions and Species § 555- Erythema—Tumor fine febre, fuperficiarius, fo- litarius, diffufus, rubro-roleus, preflione evanefcens. Sauvagesius. Erythema—Inflammation feizing the fkin alone, and very little of the whole fyflein ; or the affection of the fyftem is only fymptomatical of the external :aflammation. Cullen's PraEl. of Phv/ic, § 219. Species of Erythema, according to Salvages, are, 1. Erythema fpontaneum. Eryjipele commun. 2. Erythema ambuflio. Heifler. Brulure. 3. Erythema volaticum. Maculae volaticae. Sennert. JEflus vo/a ticus. Feu volage. 4. Erythema pernio. Engel tire. Mules aux talons. 5. Erythema intertrigo. 6. Erythema paratrima. Paratrima. Greecor. 7. Erythema gangraenofum. Qiefnny, B b 2i$6 ELEMENTS of Diagnojltf. 1091. The mod peculiar circumftances by which eryfipelatous inflammation (1090.) is diflinguifhable from inflamma- tion (776.) as hitherto confidered, and, which, for diftinclion’s fake, has been na- med phlegmonic and phlegmonous, are its being more diffufed, lefs elevated, and t its changing its pofition. 1092. Eryfipelatous inflammation (1090.) is perhaps lefs difpofed to be terminated by fuppuration (785.) than that named phlegmonic (1091.) ; fucli an event how- ever now and then accedes. The affedtion is denominated phlegmonoid rofe (eryfipe- las phlegmonodes) *, 8. Erythema volans. Flamma volans. Tulpii. Feu du v if age. 9. Erythema a pun&ura. * Hoc vitinm (eryfipebs) aliquod difcrimen habet. Nam faepe minor pruritus, qui ex quiefcente et acri humore in cute fit, veram inflammationem movet, et dicitur <p\ty/uoruJi(. PlaTNER! InJUtut. Chi rung. § 158.SURGERY. 197 1093. Rofe (1090.) may attack any part of the furface. Its cutaneous portion, and the external furface of this, is its molt common feat (556.). The alimen- tary furface is perhaps not exempted from its invarton (936.). 1094. Of the cutaneous furface, the face is the mod frequent refidence of rofe (1090.). It not feldom inverts the head. The tumefadlion exifts often in fucli quantity as to Ihut the eye-lids, and in them to aflume the fuppurative termi- nation (785.) f. The function of the brain, too frequently, is affedted, and to a fatal degree. f When the rednefs and fwelling in eryfipelas'have proceeded for fome time, there commonly arife, fooner or later, blitters of a larger or fmaller fize on feveral parts of the face. Thelc contain a thin colourlcfs li- quor, which fooner or later runs out. The furface of the (kin, in the bliltered places, fometimes becomes livid and blackilh : but this livor feldom goes deeper than the furface, or difeovers any degree of gangrene afFe&ing the Ikin. On the parts of the face not af- fected with blliters, the cuticle fuffers, towards the end of the difeafe, a conliderable defquamatlon. Sometimes the tumor of the eye lids ends in fuppu- ration. Cullen’s PraEl. of Phyfc, § 5^4.198 ELEMENTS of Special Cure. 1095. Obfervations on the caufes of rofe (1090.), and its connection with fe- ver (266.), are premifed (555.)- The me- thod of cure of the local affeCtion remains to be marked. 1096. Recent experience in a variety of cafes has evinced, that the cure of rofe (1090.) may be mo ft fuccefsfully conduct- ed by a proper application of antiphlo- giftic remedies (815.). The topical ones (823.) in particular have exhibited the beft effeCts ; their adoption ought to be early and extenfive, in order to fubvert any fpe- cial tendency to fuppuration (785.) or mortification (788.). Suppofed Remedies. * 1097. Very generally fomething pecu- liar and fpecific has been imagined to be prefent in eryfipelatous inflammation (1090.), and confequently, that, a fuited mode of treatment is indicated.SURGERY. 199 1098. It does not appear to be a dttfi- < cult undertaking to fhow that die charac- ter! flics of rofe (1090.) are merely acci- dent, resulting chiefly from fpeciality of oc- cafional caufe(558.) and fituation (1093.), and, of courfe, that, no peculiarity of re- j mcdy againft it is wanted. Thole fup- pofcd to have fuch are 1. Meal, or farinaceous powder. 2. Abforbent earth.—Chalk. 1099. The matters enumerated (1098.) are ordered to be from time to time ap- plied to the affection in queftion (1090.) under various pretexts; fuch as, their ap- titude to abforb exfudation of acrimony, &c. fuppofed to take place and to form the matter of the defquamation that ge- nerally attends difcuflion (782.) *. * As in eryfipclas there is always an external af. fection, and as hi many cafes there it no other, fo va. nous external applications have been propofed to l>e made to the part affected. But alrnoft all cf them are of doubtful effect. 'I'he narcotic, refrigerant, and aftringent applications are fufpected of cifpofiag to gangrene. Spwkous applications feern to increafe the inflammation, and all oily or mating applaiat ion* ft tut to occafion its fpreading. The application which fec.v to be the tmft faftt ar.d what is mujl comtmr.ly ufid,2bo ELEMENTS of i ioo. It may juftly be apprehended that the treatment of rofe (1090.) now detailed (1099*) may have been not a lit- tle inftrumental in aggravating the fymp- toms, and in inducing its too frequent fuppuration. The Sydenhamian pra&ice was very oppofite *. Frigid Humoral Swelling. Definition. 1101. Humoral fwelling (774.) not im- mediately produced by inflammation (776). is that of a dry mealy powder, frequently fprinkled upon the inflamed parts. Cullen’s Prat1. of Phyficy I S65' * Hie ego materiam peccantem (eryfipelate' fl-a- grante) fanguini permixtam rite evocandam, ejufdem fanguinis ehullicionem remediis illam contemperanti- bus fufflaininandam .cenfeo ; earn denique, quae jam partibus impafta eft, materiam evocandam difeutien'- damque. Haec ut fiant, ubi primum accedo, fatis largam fan- gutnit quantitatem e brachio extrahi praecipio, qui qui- dem pleuriticorum fanguinem fere Temper aeinulatur. Die fequente blandam potionem cathartic am exhibio, ec hora Tomni haujhim paregoriciim et partem aJfeElaw f&- veri jubeo. SYDENHAM. Oper. cap. vi.SURGERY. 201 Dijlin Elion. i 102. Humoral fwelling (i ioi.), regard being had to the inverting or folid parts, admits of diftindtion, into 1. Circumfcribed. 2. Encyfted. 3. DifFufed. * Circumscribed Humoral Swelling. Definition. 1103. Humoral fwelling (1101.), its Conftituent matter circumfcribed by cellu- lar fubftance varioufly altered and con- denfed. 1104. It may be remarked, that, the cellular matter defcribed (1103.) as invert- ing the fluid of frigid fwelling (1101.), has been commonly named cjfi (cyftis), and the fwelling faid to be enc filed. Vol. II. C c I202 ELEMENTS o* Wen. Appellations. Lupia., Encystia. Tumor lymphaticus. Tumeur Lymphatique. Loupe. Definition. 4 1105. Swelling frigid, humoral, circum^ feribed, colourlefs, for the moft part in- dolent, flow in its formation and pro- grefs, its contained matter more or lefs pul- taceous * Lupia—Cyftis vel follicnlus materiam pullaceam non purulentam continens. Sauvagrsius. Lupia—Extuberatio fubter cutem, mobilis, mollis,, non dolens. Cuulenus. Lupia—Tumor five protuberantia fabae turcicae magnitudine, durus, glandtilam in cute, quidam pro pro meliceride accipiunt, alii pro ganglione, alii ean- dem cum feirrho obtinere caufam putant. Blam- CARDUS. Encystis—Tumor frigidus, indolens, membrana indutus, et materiam fpiflam complexus. Atheroma,SURGERY. 203 Diajrno/iic. 1106. Confufion, nearly inextricable, reigns among chirurgical writers with re- Jlcatovia, meliceris, tejhtdo, talpa ejus fpecies. Voge- Lius. Atheroma—Tumor tunicatus, rotundatus, mobi- lis, mdlliufculus, indolens, abfque cyftide. Linnaeus. Lupia—Cyflis materiam pultis vel mellis confiften- tiam referentem continens, haud purulentam, indo- Jens, cuti concolor, loco mobilis. Sagarus. Meliceris—Folliculus materia vifcida confiften- tiam mellis vel pultis adepta turgidus. Sagarus. Steatoma—Tumor materia adipis vel fevi con- fiftentiam habente repletus. Sagarus. Loupe— l'urneur enkyftee, ordinairement ronde, plus ou moins dure fuivant la matiere qu’elle ren- ferme, quelquefois grofle, quelquefois petite, fansdou« leur, fans inflammation, et fans changement de cou- leur a la peau. Le mot loupe eft un terme generique, qui renferme plulieurs efpecies au quelles la fituatiori et la qualite de la matiere continue donnent differens noms. Celle de la gorge I’apelle bronchocele; cello d’une matiere dure, femblable a du fuif, on l’apelle Jleatome • on a mis aufli au rang des loupes Vatherome et le meliceres. Villars. Wen—The fteatoma, meliceris, and atheroma, are the three kinds of encyfted tumors which our writers204 ELEMENTS of fpeCl to the acceptation of the term wen (1105.) ; fome of them beftow it on every fwelling (772.) not inflamed (776.), whe- ther humoral or folid (573.) *• 1107. Wen (1105.) may be formed in any point of the furface of the body, a fmall degree of fwelling and fluctuation afford, the detection of its exiftence. Its formation feems not to be preceded, nor at- tended with any remarkable degree of in- flammation (77 6.). 1108. It is fometimes not a little diffi- cult to mark the line of divifion between inflammation (776.) and wen (1105.). Like other morbid ftates they feem often to be take notice of under the denomination of wens, Gooch. Species of Lupia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Lupia meliceris. Mellijlavium. 2. Lupia fteatoma. Lipoma. Loupe graijfcufe. * See Petit des Tttmeurs. See Warner’s Cafes, p. 117. See Gooch’s Surgery, vol. ii. p. 28kSURGERY. 205 blended together, and hence the contents of the latter exhibit a degree of purulent appearance (784.). They are, however, in ge- neral fomewhat vifcid and pultaceous ; the quantity often amounts to many pounds f. DlJlinElion. 1109.- Wen, from the date of its con- tents, has obtained a variety of appella- tion. 1. Atherom. Appellation. Atheroma. Dejinition. 1110. Wen (1105.), its contents refem- bling curds blended with whey in various proportion. "t I Have frequently treated wen, from which up- wards of twelve pounds of its peculiar matter has been20 6 ELEMENTS of 2. Melicere. Appellation. Meliceris. Melliflavium. Definition. mi. Wen (1105.), its contained maU ter vifcid like the more fluid honey, ** . J C * %. \ f V ■ --1I 3. Steatom. Appellation. Steatoma. Loupe graisseuse. Definition. 1112. Wen (1105.), its contents con- flftent like fuet or lard *. * From fonie remarks and experiments I have made, I am inclined to believe that the fubftance which is taken for fuet in the Jientomatous, and alfo that which is called curds in the atheromatous tumour, are only infpilTatcd lymph; but I do intend to make fome farther trials, as opportunities offer, to afcertain thefe doubtful points, although indeed even now I am not in doubt myfelf. Gooch’s Surgery, vol. ii. p. 283.SURGERY. 207 1113. There is caufe to conclude, from many circumftances, that wen (1105.), efpecially when large, and the effufed mat- ter femipurulent (784.) or atheromatous (1110.), may be connected with the fcro- phulous habit (757.) In fuch circumflan- ces, it can only be regarded as a portion or a fymptom of this general morbid affec- tion (39.)> requiring its proper reme- dies (91.-). Cure. * * 1114. Wen (1105.) feldom or never is terminated by difcuffion (782.) ; its only fpontaneous cure, perhaps, to be expedted, is its burfting, and buffering, of courfe, a convention into wound *, or rather ulcer * ; the cicatrifation of which is varioufly pro- tradled. This is no rare occurrence. 1115. The fpecified termination of wen (1105.) may be artificially and fuccefsful- ly anticipated, and the time of healing con- fequently abridged in proportion. 1116. The opening of wen (1105.) may be performed by any of the modes enu- * See IViund and Ulcer.2o8 ELEMENTS ov merated for that of impofthume (786.). In general, the incihve method * is prefe* rable f. fon.. r-j-,. r~'~~ | before opening is performed, for the mod part is greatly aggravated for fome time afterwards, and requires every attention. It too often rages fatally. 1 Variety. 1118. Wen (1105.), according to iitua- *ion, is varioufly denominated. Talpa. Testudo. Taupe. * See Oncotomy. f In two cafes of wen opened by the feton-me- thod, the running and fever were fo great and in- tenfe, aggravated by the prefence and irritation of the fetons, that life feemed to owe its prefervation to their removal, which I had ordered. Mole. Appellations.SURGERY, 209 Definition. 1119. Wen (1105.), generated in the hairy fcalp (capilhtium), its contained rinatter generally fteatomatous (1112.). Diagnojlk. 1120. Mole (1119.), from lituation, is (determined to be p*articularly eminent: it iis generally moveable with refpeft to the Ibone, and careful examination difcovers i fluctuation. Due attention to tliefe cha- ! rafters will prevent miftake. Special Cure. 1121. The general principle of* pure of wen (1105.) applies to mole (1119.), its be- ing very much circuml’cribed, and its peculiar lituation favour eXciflon of it *. The integuments, by a dexterous ufe of the knife, may be very advantageoufly preferved f. * See Amputation. t I lately, with mucli fuccefs, adhered to the plan cf cure of mole mentioned, in that of one of many Vol. 11. D do 210 ELEMENTS of Sty. Appellations■* % Hordeolum. Crithe. Grando. Orgeolet. Definition. 1122. Wen (it05.) formed in the eye** lid, commonly in its margin ; and, for the moll part, fteatomatous (1112.) f. years formation. The patient (a gentleman of great refpect), by his Iteadinefs, favoured the perfett dif. fedtion of it, which enfured an expeditious healing. v . * ; f Hordeolum—Tumor durus, vix fenfu gaudens, CUti concolor, raro rubens, in palpebrarum limbo e- nafcens, fphaericus, pifo ut plurimum minor. Sau- vagesius. Hordeolum—Tuberculum cyfticofum, ovatum, in limbo palpebrarum, fuppurans faepius apice. Lin- naeus-. Hordeolum—Tuberculum calidum in abfcefium fere defjnens, quod e palpebrae margine atque e cilio jprorumpit„ Vogelius.1 SURGERY. ci i . jjtV . *> j.-.t V . - ■ * ' .*• Cure. • • >«/ j a . , 1123. Sty (1122.), which often confifts in an accumulation of matter in an ob- itrudted excretory du6t of a lebaceous gland, after a certain degree of diftenfion (772.),is attacked by inflammation (776.). Hordeolum—Tumor durus, aut excrefcentia plus minus mollis, plerumque cuti concolor, ferme fenfu ca- rens, in limbo palpebrarum enata, magnitudine faepius granum hordei vel pill aequans. Sagarus. Hordeolum—Phlogofis. Cullenus. Grando—Tuberculum durum, palpebrae fere fu- periori innafeens. Vo gel 1 us. Species of Hordeolum, according to SauvaGes, are, 1. Hordeolum grando. Aetii. Crithe. Graecor. Grain de grele. 2. Hordeolum chalozium. Heifter. 3. Hordeolum Siro. Ciro/i des paupieres. 4. Hordeolum fteatomatofum. Sennert. 5. Hordeolum verrucofum. Verru'e des paupieres. (). Hordeolunj hydatidofum. Aqueola. SeDnert. D d 2ELEMENTS of 212 Burfting (840.) andfpontaneous cureenfue, A confiderable degree of dexterity is requir. fite, if detaching it by dilfe6lion * is atr tempted. 3. Bronchokele, -1 \ * ^ \ \ / 3 Appellations, Bronchocele. Trachelophyma. Gouetre. Definition. 1124. Wen (1105.) fituated on the fore part of the neck f. * See Amputation. f Bronchocele—Excrelcentia vel tumor fcirrho- fus anticae partis colli. Sauvagesius. Bronchocele—Tumor glandule thyroideae. Vo- GELIUS. Trachelophyma—Tumor varius, non purulen- tus, neve inflammatorius, anticae partis colli. Sa- garus. Species of Bronchocele, according to Salvages, are, I. Bronchocele botium. BoncaUi. Hernia gutturis. ISURGERY, 215 Cure. 1125. No fpeciality of cure feems to be demanded by bronchokele (1124.). i'' ■ ' . \ ’ .r Ganglion. Appellation. Condyloma ganglion. Sauvag. Definition. 1126. Humoral fwelling (772.), cir- cumfcribed, formed in the courfe of a tendon, generally about the wrift or ankle, of flow increafe, colourlefs, indo- lent *. 2. Bronchocele ventofa. Ejufdein. Hernia colli emphyfenultica. Botium. 3. Bronchocele aquofa. Mcntalti. * Ganglion—Tumor tendinibus Innatus, ovatus, mobilis, pulpofus, indolens. Linnaeus. Ganglion — Tumor durus, concolor, indolens, tendini infidens, Vogelius.214 ELEMENTS of Diagnojlic. 1127. Attention to the defcription (12 26.) of ganglion,-will always enfure a diagno- dic (69.). Didedtion fliows, that, it is condituted by a matter more or lefs pel- lucid and confident, colle&ed probably within a tendinous membrane. . £1* jj Cure. 1128. The abforption of the condim- ent matter of ganglion (1126.) maybe promoted by 1. Fridlion: 2. Prediire: 3. Adroke: Or it may be difcharged by 4. Incidon Ganglion—Extuberatio durior, mobilis, tendini infidens. Cullenus. Ganglion—Tumor tendinibus innatus, ovatus, mobilis, indolens, tunicatus, pulpofus. Sagarus. Ganglion—Tumor cyfticus, qui a vagina tendinis formatur, liquidum crudo albumin! fimile continens. Pjlenck. -j- By incifion, ganglion, upon the fore part of the ankle of a young lady, which occafioned deformity,SURGERY. 2I£ Encysted Swelling. , . / ~ . i . i . Appellations. Cystis. Tumor cysticus. Tumor tunicatus. Tumor capsulatus. Tumor tunica comprehensus. Tumeur cystique. Definition. 1129. Humoral fwelling (772.), the conftituent fluid of which is inverted by a proper membrane, or contained in a proper cavity or vertel of the animal bo- dy *. f dilcharged a cryftalline gelatinous matter, more con- fident than white of egg or the vitreous humour of the eye ; a faft which feems to evince, that ganglion is more conne&ed with lupia than with condyloma. * Cystis — Protyberantia fa&a a fluidis- intra membranam propriam vel alienam maxime dilatatam- contentis, vel receptacula quaevis diftendentibus. Sav- vagesius.ELEMENTS oP 2i6 1130. Encyfted fwelling (1129.), as de- fined, notwithftanding its acceptation is comparatively reftrided f, is not a little various in refped of contained matter, fi- tuation, and other circumftances, points well worthy of attention, becaufe a fuit- ed furgery (96.) is indifpenfable. 1131. It is almoft unneceffary to ob- ferve, that, from peculiar ftrudure (15.) in fome fituations, encyfted fwelling (1129.) may not always be vifible ; on this account, however, it cannot be con- tended that it is lefs real. Di/iindion. 1132. Confideratiori being had to con- Aituent matter of humoral fwelling (1129,), it admits readily of diftindion into Cystis—Tumor capfulatus fluido refertus. Sa- GARUS. Tumor cysticus—Si qui forte humores aut tu- bercula peculiaribus tunicis contenta in corpore ori- untur, tumores cyftici vulgo appellantur. Heisterus. f Wen and its varieties have been commonly na- med Encyfted Swelling.SURGERY. 217 VOL. II. E e ' jt. Purulent (784.). 2. Sanguine or bloody (22.). 3. Serous or watery. 4. Pultaceous (1105.). 5. Biliary. 6. Urinary. 7. Stercoraceous. i* Purulent ehcyfted Swelling« Empyem. Appellations» Empyema. Empyocele. Purulent tumour; Definition. 1133. Encyfted fwelling(1129.), formed by purulent matter (784.) ** # Empyema—A colle&ion of purulent matter in any part whatfoever. Quincy. Empyema—Symptomata hvdrothoracis, prnegref- fa pulmonis inflammatione fuppurata, et comitante fe- bre hettica. Sauvagesius.2 I 8 ELEMENTS of DiagnoJIlc. 1134. Diagnoftic(69.') of empyem(i 133.) is often evidenced by 1. External fwelling (772.) : Always by 2. Preceding inflammation (776.) in its feat or vicinity : 3. He&ic fever (693.), for the moft part prefent. Empyema—Refpiratio gravis cum flu&uatione in ca1 o thoracis port: febrem. Empyema—Pus in cavum thoracis effufum. Lin- naeus. Empyema—Abfceflus in thorace^latus aut partem ejus in tumorem attollens, cum febri hectica, praegref* fa pleuritide vel peripneumonia. Vogelius. Empyema—Difficultas refpirandi a pe&oris recli- natione crefcens, quam praeceilit phlegmafia pe&oralis, non refoluta, led iuppurata. Sagarus. Species of Empyema, according to Sauvages,. are, 1. Empyema a peripneumonia. Van Sivieten. 2. Empyema a vomica. Ejujdem. 3. Empyema pleurae. Boneti. 4. Empvenia mediaffini. Ejujdem, 5 Empyema diaphragmatis. Ejujdem. 6. Empyema inte^colble. /E e 2 Cure. 1135. Affording as foon as may be a pproper artificial opening (843.), by which the pus (784.) conlfituting empyem (1133) jimay be difcharged, is, in general, a prac- tice highly expedient. Unfortunately this lfalutary meafure is not always attainable, .and hedtic fever. (793.)) often fatal, enfues. Variety. xi 36. The varieties of empyem (1133.) :may be enumerated. Head-Empyem. Appellations. m Empyema capitis. Phrenitis suppurata (887.)* Abscessus cerebri. Apoplexia purulent a. Definition. 1137. Empyem (1133.), its pus (784.)ELEMENTS op 220 contained within the fkull or membranes of the brain (encephalon). DiagnoJUc. 1138. The diftenfion attendant on head-; empyem (1137-) may not be always per-, ceptible (1131-) 5 its diagnoftic (69.) will, with much certainty, be gathered from 1. Symptoms of compreffion of the brain, refembling a good deal thofe of apoplexy (177.) : 2. Phrenzy (881.) necefTarily precedent. Cure. 1 . ’ 1139. Every argument that can be urged in behalf of opening impofthume (786.) artificially (843.), is doubly force- ful for adopting a fimilar practice againlt head-empyem (1137.). The choice of fi- tuation may often be a bufinefs of diffi- culty. Trepaning * in general will be the mode. ♦ See Trepaning.SURGERY. 221 Cheek-Empyem. • ’l * ' » * • I ' * ‘ * •» Appellations. Empyema antri maxillaris. OzAENA MAXILLARIS. Odontalgia suppurata (1032.) ‘•rrc’* Definition, 1140. Empyem (1133-)^ its Pus (784..) accumulated within the maxillary cavity (antrum maxillare). Diagnojlic, 1141. The painful, and often deforming event, cheek-empyem (1140.), is marked by 1. Inflammation (1032.) precedent and attendant: 2. Tumefaction (772.) of the hone, and its deftruCtion ; thefe fometimes take place. Cure. 1142. The cure of cheek-empyem (1140) confifts chiefly in affording a vent to ks pus (784.) through\ 422 ELEMENTS of 1. The orifice of the maxillary cavity: 2. An artificial orifice (243.) *. Eye-Empyem. Appellations. Empyema oculi. Ophthalmia suppurata. Abscessus oculi. Hypopyon (1026.). / • 1 Dejinition. *1143. Empyem (1133.), its Pus (784*) Contained within the eye-ball. Diagnoflic. 1144. Eye-empyem (1143.) is confe- quent to profound fuppurated ophthalmy (1027.). Cure. 1145. By giving a timeous vent to the pus of eye-empyem (1143.), if fight is not preferved thereby in any degree, much pain may be avoided. * See Incision.SURGERY. 22,3 Chest-Empyem. Appellations. Empyema pectoris. Peripneumonia suppurata (905.). Vomica rupta (908.). Empyeme. Dejinition. 1146. Empyem (1133-)» the Pus (784*) contained in the cavity of the pleura. Diagnojlic. 1147. Cheft-empyem (1146.) is marked by . 1. Diflurbed refpiration, efpecially while lying on the fide not pofTelfed by its pus (784.) : 2. Peripneumony (895.) or other inflam- mation (776.) of the thoracic organs ha- ving preceded: 3. Swelling (772.) fometimes externally: 4- He&ic fever (693.) always*224 ELEMENTS of Cure. / I 1 1148. The expediency of difcharging the pus (784.) forming cheft-empyem (1146.) by a. proper opening (843.), is too glaring to be difputed *. Belly-Empyem. Appellation. Empyema abdominis. Ascites purulenta. Definition. 1149. Empyem (1133.), its pus (784.) contained in the cavity of the peritoneum. Diagnoflic. 1150. The exiftenCe (69.) of belly-em- pyem (1149-) is known chiefly from at- tention to the manner in which inflam- mation (776.) of the abdominal organs, or containing parts, may have terminated. * See Incision. ISURGERY. Vol. II. F f 22f Cure. 1151. No valid objedlion occurs againft adopting the general mode of cure of em- ppyem (1133.), with refpedt to that form- ed in the abdominal cavity (1149.) *. Scrotal Empyem* Appellations, EmpYema TUNICAE VAGINALIS. Empyocele scroti. Hernia humoralis purulenta« Definition, 1152. Empyem (1133.), its pud (784.) Contained within the vaginal coat of a te~ Hide. Diagnofiic. 1 IJ 53* The detedlion of fcrotal empyem (II52*) cannot be difficult. . • 1 + See Tapping.Cure. 1154. Cure of fcrotal empyem (1152.) is attainable by adhering to the principle Specified (1135.)* \ Joint-Empyem. Appellatio?is. Empyema articult. Arthropuosis (993.). Abscessus articularis* aDefinition. ir55. Empyem (1133.) its pus (784.) lodged within a capfular membrane or li- gament. Diagnojiic. 1156. The prefence of joint-empyem (1155.) is readily difeovered by 1. Precedent joint-inflammation (993.)- 2. Diminifhed function. * 3. Proportional fwelling, and fometimes fluctuation. 4. He&ic fever (693.).SURGERY. 22 7 Cure. U57. No fpeciality feems to be indica- ted in the cure of joint-empyem (1155.)* except, that, if the prefervation of life (25.) demand, it may be commuted for wound f. 2. Sanguine or bloody encyfled Swelling. Haematokele. Appellations. Haematocele. Blood-swelling. Definition. 1158. Encyfled fwelling (1129.) form- ed by blood (22.). f See Amputation. F f 2ELEMENTS of Aneurysm. Appellatio?is. Aneurysma. Abscessus spiR1TUOSUS. Haematocele arteriosum. Aneurysme. Definition. 1159. Haematokele (1158.) formed in a morbid dilatation of a portion of an arte- :■> rial branch (22.), or from a wound * of it by extravafat-ion in its vicinity j\ * See Wound. f Aneurysma—Cyftis arteriofa. Sauvagesius. Aneurysma—Arteriae dilatatio. Aneurysma—Tumor mollis, pulfans, concolor, rotundatus. Linnaeus. Aneurysma—Tumor arteriae mollis et pulfans. V OGELIUS. Aneurysma—Tumor mollis, pulfans, fupra arte- riam. Cullenus. Aneurysma—Cyftis arteriofa, cruore referta, ex pulfu et fitu nofcenda. Sagarus. Aneurysme—Tumeur contre-nature faite de fang par la dilatation, ou par Pouverture d’une arterq. Ces.SURGERY. 229 Diagnojiic. 1160. The diagnoftic (69.) of aneuryfm iswarioufly doubtful, according to fitua- tion: In general, it may be afcertained by ■ . 1. Swelling (772.) for the mod £art vi- fible, colourlefs, more or lefs round or fpheroidal, fituated upon or near an arte- rial branch, and pulfating fynchronoufly with the arterial fydem : 2. Suffering diminution upon preflure properly applied; at lead this generally happens, and a particular noife or tremor may in the mean time be often marked: deux caufes font diftinguer Vaneuryfine en vrai et en faux. Le vrai eft celui qui forme par la dilatation de quelque artere, il jouit du meme movement de diaftole et de fyftole. II cede a la comprefilon des doigts, et revient auilitot qu’on cefle le comprimer. Le faux fe fait par un epanchement de fang en confeqnence de I’ouverture d’une artere, accedent qui arrive quelquefois dans la faigne'e. Vii.lars. Species of Aneuryfma, according to Sauvages, are, r. Aneuryfma fpurium. Heiflcr. 2. Aneuryfma verum. Atieuryfme vrai. 3. Aneuryfma cylindroides.330 ELEMENTS of 3. The occafional caufe (60.); which is fometimes wound: 4. Difturbed circulation of the blood, when it affe&s the larger arterial branches, producing palpitation (751.), &c. DidinElion. 1161. According to circumftances, aneu- ryfm (1159.) is varioufly diftinguilhed,and named 1. True, 3. Spurious, 3. Varicous. True Aneurysm. « Appellations. Aneurysma verum. Aneurysme vrai. v Definition. 1162. Haematokele (1158.) formed by dilatation of a portion of an arterial trunk.SURGERY. 23* DiagiioJUc. \ 1163. The difcrimmation of true aneu- ryfm (1162.) from other diftindtions is not difficult, when lituated in the extremi- ties, or acceffibly *. * That kind of dilatation of the arterial tube which is called a true aneuryfm, is fometimes formed in the middle, and fometimes in the upper part of the thigh, and fometimes in the ham. The general chara&eriftic marks of this ddlemper are a circumfcribed tumour, fmall at its fird appear- ance, but gradually increafing, and for fotne length of time having a'pulfatory motion, and felt exactly correfpondent with the patient’s pulfe at the wrifl : This pulfation, arifing from the motion of the blood through the artery, is eafily feen and felt for fome length of time ; but as the tumour becomes gradually larger, the pulfation in it becomes more and more ob- feure to the touch; and in length of time, when either the artery is dilated to a very confiderable five, or has burft, and has fhed part of its contents, the motion becomes in fome cafes fo oblcure, as fcarcely to be felt at all, or at leall not without very diligent attention. When it has got into this date, whether it be femoral or popliteal], the lower part of the limb becomes, by preflure of the extravafated blood, and by the ob- ftruction to the circulation through the dilated artery, confiderably loaded and fwollen, unfit for ufe or mo- tion, and in general very painful. Pott’s WerU? vol. iii. p. 412.ELEMENTS of 2J2 Aneurism of the Aorta* Appellations. , . I . 1 ; I S. Lx T* Cardiogmus. Cardionchus. Aneurysma Praecordiorum. Anurysme du Coeur. Definition. • . • t ... 1164. True aneuryfm (1162.) formed in the aorta, near the heart, or in the heart itfelf*. * Cardiogmus—Gravis pertinaxque in praecor- diis moleftia, cum fenfu ponderis et magnae molis pui- fantis, a minimo motu increfcens. Sauvagesius. Cardiogmus—Anxietas cordis dolorifica, cum fen- fu ponderis et pulfatione. Vogelius. » Cardiogmus — Gravis pertinaxque moleftia in praecordiis, cum fenfu ponderis auttaeve molis et pul- fatione, quae ad minimum motum augentur : aneu- ryfmati cordis, auricularum, finuum, et arteriarum, iribuitur cardiogmus, feu dolor cordis. Sagarus. Species of Cardiogmus, according to Sauvages, are, I. Cardiogmus polypofus. Hombergii, a. Cardiogmus palaggii. Lancift.SURGERY. *33 Diagnojflic. 1165. Aneuryfm of the aorta (1164.), or of the heart, is principally known by its diflurbing the circulation of the blood. It fometimes deftroys the contiguous ribs, and appears externally* It has been found connected with olfification of the valves of the heart 1166. The blood propelled by the com- bined contractile power of the heart and veffels, re-a6ts proportionally on every part of the vafcular furface. Its impetus or force being greateft in the larger branches of the arterial canals, Ihould their refift- ence in any point be diminiihed or remo- ved, a fwelling diftenfion or burfting and effufion, the affeCtion aneuryfm (1159.), will necelfarily be generated, which pul- 3. Cardiogmus auriculae. Senac. 4. Cardiogmus cordis finifiri. Poterii. 5. Cardioginus aoriae. Setiac 6. Cardiogmus a mole cordis. Marchet. 7. Cardiogmus Leprotianus. Leprcti. 8. Cardiogmus. Mechlii. t See Hildani Oper. Centaur 2. Ob. 99. Vol. II. G g234 ELEMENTS of fates fynchronoully and more or lefs di~ ftin&ly with the arterial fyftem in general. ! Cure. 1167. The curative treatment of true 4 aneuryfm (1162.) may be 1. Radical: 2. Palliative. The former confifts in obliterating the dif- eafed portion of the arterial tube *; the i latter, in diminifhing the impetus of the circulating mafs, by 1. The antiphlogiftic courfe j and in counteracting the diftending power, :: by 2. Suited deligation f,. or mechanical fupport. 1168. Aneuryfm feated within (1164.) , or near the trunk of the body generally admits of palliation only (1167.); in the extremities, the palliative or radical cure may be adopted, according to circum-1 ftances.. 4 - * See Operation for Aneurysm*. | See Deligation.SURGERY. *35 Spurious Aneurysm. Appellation. Aneurysma spurium. Ecchymoma arteriosum. I Dejinition. 1169. Haematokele (1158.) formed in the vicinity of a wound of an artery. Diagnojlic. 1170. Spurious aneuryfm (1169.), ob- vioufly not an encyfted fwelling (1129.), is chiefly difcriminated by the circum- flance of wound * or violence having pre- ceded its appearance; and, by the noify per- ception already taken notice of (1160.). Cure. J171. The general principle of cure fpecified (1167.) for true aneuryfm (1162.) is equally applicable to fpurious one (1169.) t- * See Wound. + See EJays Phyfical and Literary, vol. iii. where valuable communications on this i'ubjefr are inferted by Sir J. Pringle and Dr D. Monro. G g 2Varicous Aneurysm. ) Appellation. Aneurysma varicosum. Aneurysma venosum. Definition. 1172.. Hematokele (1158.) formed in a dilated portion of the venous fyftem (22.), communicating with the contiguous por- tion of the arterial one (22.) by a hole confequent to mutual wound* Diagnofiic. ■ * t 1173. Varicous aneuryfm (1172.) is of eafy detection; it can almofl only be the produce of an undextrous performance of the operation of blood-letting *. In all re- fpedts, this affedtion, although an encyfted fwelling (1129.), is not ftridtly aneuryfma.h Cure. 1174. No fpeciality is indicated in the furgery (96.) which refpedts varicous aneuryfm (1172.). * See Phlebotomy.SURGERY. *37 r • ; * M - ^ '3 %f ’ ' ■* r* ‘ *. . , , Varix. Appellations. ClRSOS. Haematocele venosum*. Varice. Swollen vein. Definition. 1175. Haematokele (1158) formed with- in or near a venous branch f, Diagnofic. 1176. The principal fymptoms of va- I'i^l1175-) al'e> f Varix—Cyftis venofa. Sauvagesius. Varix—Venae dilatatio. Varix—Tumor mollis, quiefcens, concolor, rotun- datus. Linnaeus. Varix—Tumor venae mollis, lividus aut niger. V OGELIUS. Varix—Tumor mollis, non pulfans, fupra venam. CULLENUS. .Varix—Dilatatio venae rubra, nigrefcens, ad*38 ELEMENTS of 1. Swelling (772.) within or connected with a venous branch, generally difappear- ing when prelfure is applied to it, and re- fuming its former dimenfion when this is removed; often fuperficial and livid. 2. Abfence of pulfatory motion. Varicocele. Appellations. » r • f ' • ClRSOCELE. Oscheocele varicosa. Varix scortalis. Definition. 1177. Varix (1175.) feated in the fper- matic chord *. preflionem recedens, iterumque fubito rediens hac cef- fante, pleramque pruriens, mordicans. Sagarus. * Cirsocele — Tumor arteriarutn venarumque fpermaucarum inaequalis, renitens. Vogelius. Cirsocele—Dilatatio vaforum ad teftes enntum varicofa, ita ut tertium tefliculum quandoque mentia- tur. Blanca rdus. Varicocele—Tumeur dufcrotum caufe'e par des varices qui fe forment autour des tefticules et des vaif-SURGERY. 239 1178. Varix (1175.) may be formed in any point of the venous fyftem; its mod ordinary fituation, however, is m the lower extremities, and fcrotum: This circum- ftance, in a great degree, is unqueftion- ably to be imputed to the propulfion of the venous blood in thofe parts being in a direction oppofite to that in which it gra- vitates. Dijlinclions. 1179. Three diftindlions may be noted with refpedl to varix (1175.), which have obtained correfpondent appellations. 1. True 2. Spurious 3. Aneuryfmal True Varix. Appellations. Varix vera. Varice vrai. feaux fpermatiques, e’eft le meme chofe que cirfoccle. Villars.240 ELEMENTS op Definition. 1180. Varix (1175.) formed by the di- latation of a venous branch (22.). Spurious Varix. • /»' » • j ju . 1 . * t f j Appellations. Thrombus. Varix spuria. Ecciiymoma venosum. \ (Definition. 1181. Varix (1175.) formed by blood effufed from a wounded vein *. 1182. Spurious varix (1181.) is obvi- oully not eneyfted fwelling (12-29.). t \ * Thrombus—Tumeur forme'e par un fang epanche et grumele clans les tegumens en confe- quence d’une faignee. Quand Pouverture de la veine qu’en a pique'e ne repond pas a celle de la peau, ou qu’il fe prefente un inorceau de grailTe, ou que le vaii- feau eft percc' de part en part, une petite portion du fang qui ne peut fortir librement, fe gliffe dans les cellules du corps graifieux, et fait elever la tumeur dont il s’agit. Villars. f See WlLMER’s Cafes a?ul Remarks in Surgery, p. 168. A remarkable cafe of fpurious varix near the groin is there related.1 24! SURGERY. Aneurysmal Varix. Jppcllatiofis. AnEURYSMA VAR1COSUM. Varix aneurysmalis. Definition* 1183. Varix (1175.) created by a mor^ bid communication of a venous branch With a contiguous arterial one. Cure. 1184. The cure of varix (1175.), like that of aneuryfm (1159.)) may be 1. Radical: 2. Palliative. The firlt confilts in incifion or excifion * ; the laft, in gentle comprefiion, procured by fuited dcligation which therefore in general will be preferably adopted. 1185. Aneilryfmal varix (1183.) will obvioufiy demand a method of cure limb lar to that of aneuryfm (1159.). * See Incision and Amputation. f See Df.lioation. Vol. II. H b. %242 ELEMENTS of EIe ad-Haem atokele. Appellations. Apoplexia traumatica. Haematocele cerebri. Extravasation. Pott. Definition. 1186. Haematokele (1158.}, its blood lodged within the fkull or membranes of the brain (encephalon). Diagnofiic. 1187. Head-haematokele (1186.), or con- geftion of extravafated blood within the fkull, for the moft part the effect of frac- ture * or other local violence, is traumatic apoplexy (179.)) and recognifable from the characters of this affeCtion, the blood aCting as a compreffing power on the brain. Cure. 1188. To prevent, at leaft an increafe of * See FraElure.243 SURGERY.. jhead-haematokele (1186.), the antiphlogi- ftic courfe (816.) may be purfued: and to remove the prefent imprefhon, and to fn~ perfede future effects of the extravafated blood, which readily buffers change, and may thus as well as by bulk excite phren- zy (881.), affording to it a proper vent f, is a juft indication (99.) It is a molt for- tunate fadt, when its fituation exactly detected, permits this pradtice. Chest-Haematokele. Appellations. Haematocele pectoralis. Haematocele pleuritica. Pleuritic haematokele. Definition. 1189. Haematokele (1158.) formed with- in the pleura or cavities of the cheft (tho- rax). Diagnojlic. 1190. Cheft-haematokele (1189.), almoft | See Trepaning. H h 2ELEMENTS of 244 f See Incision. / always the produce of wound *, is recog., nifed by the interruption it produces ne-? ceifarily in refpiration, and during the ly-r ing fituation. , Cure. 1191. When confiderable, the blood of chefl-haematokele (1189.) plainly demands a prompt difcharge ; which may be attain- ed by dilating the wound * that may have given rife to it, if fituation permits ; or by Incifion f made in a proper point. Belly-Ha em atokele, Appellations. Haematocele abdominis. Haematocele peritonaealis. Peritoneal haematokele. Definition. 1192. Haematokele(1158.) formed with^ in the peritoneum or abdominal cavity, * See Wound.SURGERY. 245 Diagnojlic. 1193. Belly-haematokele (1192.) princi- pally manifefts itfelf by tumefaction (772.) and a fenfe of weight, till the blood altered chemically disturbs the function of conti- guous organs. Cure. 1 1194. The mode of cure fuggefted for blood-congeftion in the cheft, is equally fuited for belly-haematokele (ri92.). Scrotal Haematokele. Appellations. Haematocele. Auttor. Ha'ematocele scroti. Oscheocele * cruenta. OsCHEOPHYMA SANGUINEA. Hernia sanguinea. * Oscheocele—Protuberantia fcroti a cyftice col- lects inibi fluidis, feu cyftis intra fcrotum. Sauva- gestus. Oscheocele—Tumor in fcroto ex annulo mufcu. li obliqui ab ingrefTo inteftino omentove vel utroqife conjun&im. Vogelius.246 ELEMENTS OF Definition* 1195. Haematokele (115 8.) formed with- in the vaginal coat pf a tefticle. Oscheocele—Tumor fcroti, non dolens, paulatim crefcens, mollis, flu&uans. Cullenus. Oscheophyma—Cyftis fcroti variisfluidis turgens. Sagarus. Species of Ofcheocele, according to Salvages, are, 1. Ofcheocele flatulenta. AuElorum. 2. Ofcheocele aquofa. Hydrocele. Heifteri. 3. Ofcheocele hydatidofa. Hydatidocele. Graecor. Hydrocele ab hydatidibus funiculi fpermatici. Hydrocele ab hydatidibus omenti prolapf. Epiplocele hydrocelico-hydatidofa. Lamorier. Hydatis fcroti circoceli fuccedens. Vandermonde, 4. Ofcheocele Malabarica. Ofcheocele hydrocele. Hydrocele Malabarica. Kempfer. 5. Ofcheocele varicofa. Cirfocele. Circocele. f Varicocele. 6. Ofcheocele feminalis. Spermatocele. Anchor. 7. Ofcheocele cruenta. Hernia fanguine a. Celfi. Haematocele. Heifter. Auttor.SURGERY. Diagnoflic. ■» T i . ^ v - — 1196. Scrotal haematokele (1195.), which is not a frequent affection, and may be pro- duced from a burft velfel, or from wound, is characfterifed by fudden acceflion for the moft part, want of pellucidity, and its fur- face being equable. Cure. 1197. The blood forming fcrotal hae- matokele (1195.) ought to be difcharged as foon as may be by a proper opening *. It may not be neceffary to induce oblite- ration f of the vaginal cavity. 8. Ofcheocele purulenta. Hernia humarnUs. Heider. Empyocele. Graecor. 9. Ofcheocele adipofa. Liparocele. Halleri. 10. Ofcheocele ab algedine. Spermatocele fyphilitica. Algedo. Cockburn. Gonorrhee tcmbe dans les bourfes. « See Incision*. * See Scrotal Hydrokele.248 ELEMENTS of Watery e?icyfed Swelling. Hydrokele. '. ■. „ r. r 1 r . > • - . , • c. 1 : :.. Appellations. ^ ' i Hydrocele. EIydatis. Phlyctaena. Hydroa. ' 1 Hygroma. Hydrocystis. Hydrops localis. Hydatid. / r • , . - . . 1 Water-swelling. • - -1 t r | • • c ■ • f r Local dropsy (769.). Partial dropsy. Definition. 1198. Encyfled fwelling (1129.) form- ed by ferofity or (as it is commonly term- ed) water*. * Hydrocele—Any watery fwelling. Quincy. Hydatis—Cyftis lymphae duftuum. Sauvage- sius. Hydatis — Cyftis lymphae du<ftuum dilatatorum, lympham vel ferum continens. Sagarus. Hydatis—Veficula cuticularis humore aquea pie- na. Cullenus.2 49 SURGERY. Diagnojlic. 1199. Hydrocele (1198.) is diftinguifh- ed by 1. Situation (1129.). 2. Confidence (1198.). 3. Pellucidity in certain fites* 4. Slow augmentation. 5. Indolence. 1200. In the living date (25.) of the animal body, there is a perpetual ferous or lymphatic exhalation from arterial vef- fels (therefore named exhalants), into its every cavity and cell: This feems to be finally intended to enfure lubricity of contiguous furfaces, in order to facilitate motion and prevent concretion. The effufed matter is as conflantly inhaled by bibulous correfpondent venous tubes, Spe-cif.s of Hydatis, according ro Sauvagf.s, are, 1. Hydatis hygroma. 'l. Hydatis corollata. Hydatide en chapelet. 3. Hydatis cellnlofa. Vol. II. I i250 ELEMENTS or -f- See Incision. which, from ftruclure, contents, and function, are named valvular abforbent lymphatic veins’*. Thus congeftion, du- ring their healthful condition, is prevented. yd 1201. It is evident, that, if the action of the exhalant veflfels (1200.) is increafed, or that of the abforbent ones is dimmifh- ed by relaxation, obilruclion, wound, See. the balance will be deftroyed, and the extravafated fluid will acquire accu- mulation proportionally extenflve ; hence general and lo'cal dropfy (769.). Cure. 1202. According to the flotation of hydrokele (1198.) it proves varioufly di- iturbing and dangerous. Its cure may be obtained by 1. Abforption (1200.). 2. Chirurgic evacuation (843.). The former mode |s flow and feldom at- tainable ; the latter is more expeditious, but is not always practicable f. * See Monro de Vcnis lytnpbat'tcis valvulofs.251 SURGERY. Variety. 1203. The varieties of liydrokele (1198.) mo ft meriting to be taken notice of may be enumerated, and any fpeciality point> cd o-ut. Brain-Hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrocephalus interior. Hydrocephalus internus. Whitii. Apoplexia serosa. Hydrocele cerebri. Hydrops cranii. Hydrocephale interne* Dropsy ok the brain. Water in the head. Internal head-dropsy. Definition. 1204. Hydrokele (1198.) formed with- in the fkull, or in the cavities of the brain (encephalon) f. + Hydrocephalus—Tumor capitis, facies fae- pius excepta, mollis aut elafticus, a fluidi inira ipfum congeftione. Sauvagesius. I i 2352 ELEMENTS of Diagnoftic. 1207. Head-hydrokele (1204.) is, at its commencement, diftinguifhed by the fol- lowing fymptoms : Hydrocephalus—Capitis oedem^tofaintumefcen- tia, hiantibus futuris cranii. Linnaeus. Hydrocephalus—Capitismonftrofus tumor a col- legia aqua in cute aut fubter calvaria. Voqelius. Hydrocephalus — Capitis intumefcentia mollis, inelaftica, hiantibus cranii futuris. Cullenus. Hydrocephalus—Hydrops capitis a fero. Sa- garus. Species of Hydrocephalus, according to Sau- VAGES, are, 1. Hydrocephalus interior. Hydroctphale des ventricules. 2. Hydrocephalus exterior. Hydrocephale des teguments. Hydrocephalus interior vel exterior dicitur. Interior cognofcitur ex hiatu futuraruni, qui hiatus digito premente innotefeit; cognofcitur quoque ex fpi- na bifida, fomnolentia, progreffus tarditate, mole ca- pitis aucta. Exterior—In hac fpecie integumenta capitis fun oedematofa, palpp obvia ; futurae npti hiant, nifi cum interiori concurrat. Sagarus. \ *1SURGERY. 253 - 1. Liftleflnefs (144.). 2. Vomiting (706.). 3. Coflivenefs (720.). 4. Headach. 5. Pulfes (144.) flow and irregular. 6. Vifion dimmifhed (731.)? an<^ pupils proportionally dilated. 7. Epilepfy (744-) fometimes. 8. Evident tumefaction (772.) in forac cafes. 1206. Head-hydrokele (1204.) is pecu- liarly incidental during the earlier peri- ods ; the rachitic conflitution (764.), and its large head, mark a predilpofltion to it. TumefaCtion of the head can only accede before the futural junction of the bones of the fkull be completed *. Hyd/.ocepha lus—or dropfy of the head, is either external or internal. 1 he former has its feat in the cellular fubflance between the fkin and the pericra- nium, or between this membrane ami the Ikull. In the internal hydrocephalus, the water is fometimes collected between the cranium and dura mater, or be- tween this lalt and the pia mater; but moft commonly it is found in the ventricles of the brain immediately below the corpus callcfum. Dr WHITE on Hydroce- phalus. * I lately difle&ed a child, about eighteen months pf age, killed by internal head-hydrokde. The quan-254 ELEMENTS op Cure. 1207. It is a melancholy fadl, that, head*, hydrokele (1204.) 1S the certain harbinger or death (26.), defying equally pharma- ceutic and chirurgic* remedy (91.); at lead, there feems to be too much evidence of this circumftance ; and there is extreme reafon to fufpetft, that obfervators have tity of the extravafated fluid, which had expanded the ventricles of the brain, and fqueezed its fubftance fo as not to exceed a quarter inch in thicknefs oppofite to the parietal bones, amounted to about twelve pounds. 1 have a patient in whofe head there is not a lefs accumulation. * Between the parietal bones of the fku!l of Catherine Gillies, a child of eighteen months, whofe head was monflroufly enlarged by hydrocepha- lus (its circumference twenty-five one fourth inches), a puncture was made by the common lancet cautioufly and obliquely introduced : A large quantity of fero- fity was voided during five days ; her ftrength dimi- niflied in proportion. DifiefHon difeovered, that, the ferolity not only inverted the furface, but filled and dirtended the cavities of the brain to fuch a pitch, that, it fomewhat refombled a hollow' gourd ; a faefl: that tends in fome meafure to evince that the organi- zation of the brain altered by hydrokele is a mor- tal circumftance, and, confequently the futility of in- cifion.255 SURGERY. been miftaken in inftances of fuppofed cure. Jk \ 1208. What is called external dropfy of the head (hydrocephalus externus), is not an encyftedfwelling (1129.): It will be ta- ken notice of hereafter. Spine-Hydrokele. - Ji J r ’) \j Appellations. Hydrorachitis. Spina bifida. Spinola. Hydrocele spinalis. Spine-dropsy. Definition* 1209. Hydrokele (1198.) formed within the fpinal tube, or within the exterior co- vering (dura mater) of the fpinal mar- row (medulla fpinalis), externally pro- truding in the courfe of the fpine, ge- nerally at the loins as a fwelling (772.), always connate, fmall, round, indolent,ELEMENTS of foft, fluctuating, redifli, or livid, and is diminiflied by preflure *. 1210. The affection fpine-hydrokele (1209.) *s local dropfy (1198.) communi- cating with the ventricles of the brain: Like head-hydrokele (1207.), it is defperate as to cure. Obfervation manifefts, that, all the ill-fated fufferers, after a few months of languid exifte.nce, perifli. The aid of * Hydrorachitts—Tumor cyfticus, fero turgi- dus, ex hiatu vertebrarum lumbarium, in recens natis, protuberans, cum anaefthefia. Sauvagesius. Hydrorachitis—Tumor fupra vertebras lum- borum, mollis, exiguus, hiantibus vertebris. Culle- nus. Hydrorachitis—Tumor cyfticus ex hiatu ver- tebrarum lumbarium, vulgo fpina bifida in recens na- tis protuberans, cum anaefthefia ; eft verus hydrops thecae fpinalis. Sagarus. Spina bifida—Tumor aquofus, exiguus, in nucha aut inferiore fpinae loco, pofterioribus vertebrarum dehifcentibus proceflibus emergens. Vogelius. Spinola—Tumor fupra vertebras lumborum mol- lis, exiguus, vertebrarum procefiibus dehifcentibus. Linnaeus.SURGERY. 257 phyfic and furgery (132. 133.) are equal- ly unavailing f. Eye-hydrokele. Appellations* Hydrophthalmia. Hydrophthalmus. Callifen. Hydrocele oculi. Hyjdrophthalmie. Hydrophthalmy. Eye-Idropsy. % Definition. 1211. Hydrokele (1198.) formed in the cavity of the eye-ball f Sauvages. Nofol. Method, vol. ii. p. 497. Morgagni Epijiol. xii. Art. 12. $ Hydrophthalmia—Tumor totius oculi, cum aliquo dolore, adeo ut is palpebris operiri non poflit. Vogelius. Hydrophthalmia—Hydrops oculi. Platne~ rus. K k Vol. II.258 ELEMENTS of * See Incision. Diagnojlic. 1212. Eye-dropfy (1211.) is manifefted by a flow acceflion of, 1. Tumefaction (772.) of the eye-ball: 2. Altered function: 3. Abfence of inflammation (776.): 4. Peculiar fluctuation. Cure. 1213. The cure of eye-dropfy (1211.) will confift in, i. Artificial vent (843.) to the ferofity * * v Staphyloma—Cyftis aquofa a corneae proptofi, «t dilatatione, vel ab uveae hernia trans foramen cor- neae elapfa. Sauvagesius. Staphyloma—Protuberantia corneae obfcuratae^ Vogelius. Staphyloma—Cyftis corneae ex dilatatione ejuf. dem, e&opia uveae in cameram oculi anteriorem pro- lapfae ; hoc genus magis ad e&opias fpedlat. Sagarus. Hydrophthalmie—Hydropifie de Poeil. Vil- la rs. Staphyloma—Tumeur qui s’eleve fur la cornee «n maniere de grain de raifin. Villars.SURGERY. 259 2. Application of aftringents (121.), or other pharmaceutic fubftances, calculated to prevent reaccumulation : 3. Compreffion effcdled by fuited deliga- tion f. Chest-hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrothorax. Hydrocele pectoris, Hydrops thoracis. Chest-dropsy. Dejinition. 1214. Hydrokele (1198.) formed in any cavity within the cheft (thorax.). Variety. 1215. The ftrudture of the thoracic ca- vity permits a variety of cheft-dropfy an to flotation; 1. Pleuritic: 2. Pericardial. . .. * f See Deligation. K k 226o ELEMENTS of Pleuritic hydrokele. » .? Appellations. Hydrothorax. AuElor. Hydrops pulmonis. Hippoc. Hydrothorax pleurae. Hoffm. Hydrocele pleuritica. Pleuritic Dropsy. Definition, 1216. Hydrokele (1198.) formed in the cavity of a pleura *. * Hydrothorax—Difficultas refpirandi decubitu horizontali audla, cum faciei pailore, manuum et pe- dum oedemate, fymptomatisephialticis, alterutrius bra- chii ftupore, ec aegritudine chronica non remittente. Sauvagf.sius. Hydrothorax—Cahexia cum dyfpnoea et effu- fione aquae intra pe&us, ftrepitijin concuffione intus facientis. Vogel i us. Hydrothorax—Dyfpnoea, faciei pallor; pedum oedema, urina parca, decubitus difficilis; fubha et fponte ex fomno cum palpiratione excitatio; aqua in peftore Hu6luans. Cullenus. Hydrothorax—Anhelatio chronica, continua fti- pata phlegmafia pedum, pailore faciei, oedemate ma- nuum, fubita in fomno fuffocatione, alterutrius manu$ {tupore, fine llgnis empyematis. Sagarus,SURGERY. 261 Diagnojlic. 1217. Pleuritic dropfy (1216.) is chiefly afcertained to exift by 1. Refpiration diminiffied and difficult, which has gradually acceded, and this circumftance increafed by lying or agi- tation : 2. Tumefaction (772.), fometimes vi- sible in the interftices, or at the extremi- ties of the ribs of the flde affeCted: 3. Fluctuation (580.) fometimes per- ceptible, and even audible : 4. Oedematous feet (769.). Cure. », \ 1 . r * '» ■ » i , • * * t 1218. Pleuritic dropfy (1216.) obtains a molt ready folution by chirurgic open- Species of Hydrothorax, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Hydrothorax chylofir. WilliJJii. 1. Hydrothorax ab omento. Rhodii. 3. Hydrothorax vulgaris. Pifon. 4\. Hydrothorax febrifequens. Farmer. 5. Hydrothorax hydatidofus. Pifon. 6. Hydrothorax pleurae. Hoffman. 7. Hydrothorax pericardii. Hydrocardia. Hildani. Hydrops: pericardii. Lufitan. Hydropijie du pericarde. VieufTens. ?• Hydrothorax a fcabie. Morgagni.'262 ELEMENTS of * See Incisiojl ing *, which feems to be too much over- looked as a remedy of this affe&ion, be- Caufe ablorption (1202.) is tedioufly pro- moted, and, it may be dreaded, that, ap- plications intended to have this effe<5t have ; often produced one diametrically oppofite. - f \.L' •- . >. • Pericardial hydrokele. Appellations. i Hydrothorax pericardii. Hydrocele pericardii. HydrOcard 1 a. Hildani. Hydrops pericardii. HyDROPISIE DU PERICARDE. Pericardial Dropsy. -rrr:;o : rg'iLrmio yd - 1 J . .ij Definition. .1 1218. Hydrokele (1198.) formed with- in the covering of the heart (pericardium). Diagnofiic. 1219. Pericardial dropfy (1218.) is chiefly marked by the difturbed and ir- regular aflion of the heart neceflarily re- ‘ fulting from it, the fame nearly as has iSURGERY. 263 / been marked as difcriminative of pericar- 1 dial haematokele (229.). Cure* ■- , , 1220. Is chirurgic opening (1202.) to difcharge the conftituent ferofity of peri- cardial dropfy an admiflible expedient l Anatomy (8.) fhews its practicability. Belly-hydrokele. Appellations. Ascites. Hydrokele peritonaei. Hydrops abdominis. Belly Dropsy. Ascite. Dejinition. 1221. Hydrokele (1198.) formed with- in the peritoneum or abdominal cavity *. # Ascites—Hydrops totitis abdominis a fluido non elaftico, feu gravis et fluduofus. Sauvagesius. Ascites—Abdominis oedematofa intumefcentia. Ascites—Tumor abdominis, fcroti, et crurum, aquofus, cum atrophia fuperiorum partium. Lin- naeus.264 ELEMENTS of Diagnqjlic. 1222. Belly-dropfy (1221.), -which is often fymptomatic (44.)* is difcovered (69.) principally by, • : • „ » *j Ascites—Abdomen impulfurn, fenfus calldae per- motaeque intus aquae praebet. Vogelius. Ascites—Intumefcentia gravis, fphaeroidea, et fluftuofa abdominis, non elaftica, cum poiydipiia, uri- na pauca, lixiviali, lateritia. Sagarus. Species of Afcites, according to Sauvages, are, I. Serf Abdominales. 1. Afcites vulgatus. 2. Afcites ab oppilatione. Hydrops ab obJlruElione vfcerum. 3. Afcites ab hepate. Bonet. 4. Afcites a liene. 5. Afcites fcrophulofus. Afcites a mefenterio Jlrumofo. €. Afcites ab ovariis. Mead. 7. Afcites a fanguifluxibus. Juncker. Afcites ab inanitione et colliquatione. Schenck. 8. Afcites ab exanthematis. 1. A fcabie repulfa. Deidier. 2. Ab herpetibus maculis, &c. reprejfs. Charle- ton. 3. A rubeola repreffa. 9. Afcites arthriticus. Mufgrave. 10. Afcites artificialis. Lower. 11. Afcites fcorbuticus, Bocrbav. 12. Afcites febrilis.SURGERY, 265 1. Tumefadtion (772.) of the belly (ab- domen) foft and equable, llowly and uni- 'fbrmly proceeding from below upwards ; Afcites a colliquatione. Sennert. Afcites ex quart ana. Werlhof. 13. Aftites calidus. Sponii. II. Serf non Abdominales. 14. Afcites intercus. Oedema. Lamotte. Hydropfe du peritoine. 15. Alcites uterinus. Nicolai. 16. Afcites ftomachi. River. 17. Alcites intermufcularis. Short. 18. Alcites omentalis. Munneiks. 19. Afcites ovarii. Afcii s faccatus. Mercklini. Hydropfe enkiflpe. III. Non Seroji Abdominales. 20. Afcites cruentus. Afcites ab aqua fanguiHolinta. Bafii. Afcites ab aqua nigrefcente. Bonet. Afcites a cruore loturae carnium fimili. Holler. Afcites a cruore mero. Tulpii. 21. Afcites purulentus. Mead. Afcites a pure aquofo. Saltzman. Afcites a purulentia faccata. Bonet. Afcites a pure abdomen difendente. Plateri. 22. Afcites Urinofus. Afcites a veftca difrupta. 23. Afcites cbylofus. 24 Alcites oleofus. jBaglivi. Vol. II. LII 266 E L E M E N TS of 2. Fluctuation or perception of an ex- travafated fluid: 3. Indolence or abfence of pain : 4. Difturbance of the funClion of the abdominal organs : 5. Refpiration proportionally confined or impeded : 6. Morbid thirft: 7. Diminiihed urinary fecretion : efpecially when inJ veterateJ 1223. The fluid conftituting belly-drop- fy (1221.), varioufly turbid and confident (987.), is contained in the peritoneum, which is the cyft of the fwelling in que- 1 dion, wliich fometimes contains others like diftended little bladders, particularly named hydatids (1129.), which are proba- bly portions of lymphatic veflels (1200.) thus morbidly altered. •y Cure. 1224. Seldom is belly-dropfy (1221.) re- : IV. Nec Sero/t, nee Abdommales. 25. Afcites fanguineo-uterinus. 26. Afcites fanguineo-intercus. 27. Afcites fanguineo-peritonaeus. 38. Afcites fl'atulento-peritonaeus. Mead. 8. Oedematous legs, 9. Emaciation, 10. Symptomatic fever (691.),S U R G E R Y. 267 moveable by internal remedies, intended to promote abforption (1200.). Although chi- rurgic opening {1202.) *, giving vent to the ferolity, may not often prove radical- ly curative, efpecially if the affection is fymptomatic (44.), yet it almoft always affords the molt comfortable refpite and palliation, and may be repeated occafion- ally f. Performed early fo as to fuperfede exceffive diftenfion and alteration, it is molt likely to be fully curative J. "• • r; - • f 1225. Are there any cafes of abdomi- nal dropfy (1121.) in which injection by the opening through which the ferofity had been difcharged may be employed with advantage or impunity ? and what ought to be the compolition ? Womb-Hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrometra. * See Tapping. f Dr Mead relates tiie cafe of Dame Marjory Page, who fuffered tapping with great relief upwards of fixty times. t See Dr Fothergill’s Works. L 1 2/ *68 EL EM ENTS op Hydrops uteri. SennerL Inflatio uteri. Cajiro. Hydrocele uterina, Hydropisie de la matrice. Womb-dropsy. Definition. 1226. Hydrokele (1198.) formed by fe- rofity accumulated in the cavity of the ■womb (uterus) *. * Hydrometra—Tumor hypogaftrii in mulieri- bus fucceftive crefcens, uteri figuram referens, pref- fioui cedens fluftuanfve, ab ifehuria et graviditate di- verfus. Sauvagesius. Hydrometra—Tumor in mulieribus hypogaftrii paulatim crefcens, uteri figuram referens, preftioni cedens fluctuanfve ; citra il'churiam et graviditatem, Cullenus. Hydro cystis—Hydrops faccatus pleurae, peri- tonaei, aut vifeeris abdominalis. Vogelius. Hydrometra—Tumor hypogaftrii, fine gravidi- tate, ab utero fluidis diftenfo, rotundus, fluctuans, le- ges gravitatis fequens ; dolor inguinum, fpirandi clif- ficultas, menoftafia, rigores, mammarum mollifies, phlegmalia et ta&us orificii uterini diagnofin firmant. Sagarus. Species of Hydrometra, according to Sauvages, are, I. Hydrometra afcitica. AJlruc.SURGERY. 269 ) Diagnojlic. 1227. Womb-clropfy (1226.), it may accede during pregnancy, is principally diftinguifhed (69.) by 1. Tumefa&ion (772.) in the middle of the hypogaftric region, gradually emer- ging from the bafon (pelvis), admitting lateral motion, and exhibiting fluctuation, and not the perception of an included child, and not diminiflied by excretion of urine : 2. The weight and volume of the womb increafed and perceptible through its paf- fage (vagina uteri) : 3. Supprefled menftruation (716.). Cure. 1228. The feroflty conftituting womb- dropfy (1226.), when uncombined with pregnancy (it is a rare affetftion), may be difcharged by rendering pervious the in- ternal orifice of the womb (os uteri inter- » 2. Hydrometra gravidarum. Puzos. Hydropijie de matrice dcs femmes grojfes. 3. Hydrometra fanguinea. Bonet. 4. Hydrometra hydatica. Aflruc. 5. Hydrometra puriformis. Bonet. Hydrometra pvarij. AJlruc.27a: ELEMENTS of num) by a probe or catheter * The like plaa may be purfued, notwithflanding the pregnancy, if neceffity urge. !o dIdL: ■ ; -f . /. ' Ovary-Hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrometra ovarii. Hydrocele ovarii. Ascites ovarii. Ovary-dropsy. Definition. 1229. Hydrokele (1198.), its condim- ent ferofity collected in an ovary (ovarium). \ N Diagnoflic. 1230. Ovary-dropfy (1229.), which of- ten acquires monftrous fize f, is difcrimi- nated (69.) chiefly by its 1. Gradual acceflion in one fide of the hypogaftric region : * See Introduction. -}- Sunt hydrometrae ovariorum afciticae, quarum pennltima octoginta, ultima centum et duodecim libras feri continebant. Tumorem tubarum 150 librarum aquae plenum, memorat III. Blanchi Taurinenjis Profejfior. Sauvag. Nofol. Method. vol. ii. p. 512.SURGERY. 271 2. Fluctuation varioufly obfcure. Cure. 1231. Arrived in contaCt with the ab- dominal containing parts, fo as to exhibit diftinCt fluctuation, ovary-dropfy (1229.) may have its ferofity ufefully difcharged by artificial vent made in thefe *. i Scrotal Hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrocele. Au&or. Hydrocele scrotalis. Oscheocele aquosa. OsCHEOPHYMA AQUOSUM. Hydrops scroti. Hydrops testis. Hernia aquosa. Scrotal dropsy. Definition. 1232. Hydrokele (1198.), its ferofity ac- cumulated within the vaginal covering (tunica vaginalis) of a tefticle (teftis) f. * See Tapping. f Hydrocele—Tumor tunicarum, quibus teftis comprehenditur, aquofus. Vogelius.ELEMENTS of 272 DiagjioJiic. 1233. Scrotal dropfy (1232.) is mam- felled. (69.) by 1. TumefaClion (772.), equable, foft, and fluctuating, commencing at the bot- tom of the- fcrotum, gradually involving the tefticle, and riling upwards, and not leflened by alteration of pollure : > 2. Pellucidity; at lead this fymptom often exifts, and certainly difcriminates this fwelling from fcrotal haematokele 3. Indolence : 4. Spermatic chord unaltered, diftin- guifhable between the upper part of the fwelling and the correfpondent abdominal ring. Hydrocele-—Tumor fcroti, non dolens, paulatim crefcens, mollis, fluctuans, pellucidus. Culdenus. Hydrocele—A preternatural accumulation of A watery fluid between the tunica vaginalis and the tu- nica albuginea, which immediately invefts the vafcular fubftance of the teftis. Else. 1 Hydrocele, ufed in a literal fenfe, means any tu- mour produced by water ; but furgeons have always- confined it to thofe which poffefs either the mem- branes of the fcrotum, or the coats ot the tefticle and its veflels. Pott.SURGERY. 2 73 *234. The ferofity conftituting fcrotal dropfy (1232.) is generally pellucid, fome- times, however, turbid and tinged in vari- ous degrees. Its quantity is correfpondent to the fize of the fwelling. Caufes* 1235^ Cold and violence are frequently accufed as occafional caufes (60.) of idio- pathic (43.) fcrotal hydrokele (1231.): It is often fymptomatic (44.) of morbid al- teration of the flrudture (15.) of the cor* refpondent telticle. Special Cure. 1236. The peculiar flrudture and func- tion of the parts concerned in fcrotal hydro- kele (1232.) permit a very great fpeciality in its curative conduct. The mode may be 1. Palliative: 2. Radical. Palliative Cure. 1237. The palliative management (1236.) Of fcrotal hydrokele (1232.) confifts in af- fording a fmall Vent (843.) to its ferofity nearly as propofcd for partial dropfy in other fituations. As this practice does not materially affedt the Rate of the exha- lant and abforbent veffels ot the telticle Vol. II. M m274 ELEMENTS of and its coats, (1200.) a re-accumulation olT the fluid very conftantly and foon takes place: Hence its name Radical Cure. I2'58* The radical cure (1236.) of fcro- tal hydrokele (1232.) is eflfe&ed by artifi- cially difcharging its lerofity in flich a manner as to procure an obliteration of the cavity in which it had been collected, and thus effectually fuperfede its genera- tion for the future. On this account this practice is juftly denominated abfolute. Modes. 1239. Obliteration of the vaginal cavity containing the fluid conftituting fcrotal hydrokele (12-32.), in which its radical . cure (1238.) confifts* is procured by adhe- five inflammation (778.) extended over all the furface of the tefticle and its vaginal coat, by which concretion is eftablifhed. * The method of tapping is called the palliative cure of hydrocele ; not but that it does now and then prove an abfolute one. Share’s Surgery. I am credibly informed of a cafe of fcrotal hydro- cele, which has exifted upwards of fifty years with- out producing any remarkable inconvenience, except by its bulk, which a frequent repetition of the pallia- tive treatment ncceflary.S U R G E R Y. a75 1240. The applications or modes of chi- rurgic medicine (96.), to obtain the fpe- cified cure of fcrotal hydrokele (1239.), have been various : thofe moftly efteeme4 give to its ferofity artificial opening (843.) like that of impoflhume (786.), by which fufEcient inflammation (776.) is excited; namely, 1. Incifion: 2. Cauftic: 3.. Se.ton ■*. 1241. Each of the fpecified modes (1240.) of radical cure (1231.) of fcrotal hydrokele (1232.) have had their abettors f, and may have peculiar advantages ; all of them have in facft fucceeded. Candid ex- perience will probably award the prefe- rence to the fir ft properly executed f. 0 ' t . .j 1242. The regulation of the inflamma- tion (776.), by whichever method of ra- dical cure of fcrotal hydrocele induced, requires much attention; exceflive (1239.), it muft be reftrained by the antiphlogiftic * See Operation. t Mr Pott abetts the feton ; Mr Else, the cauftic. See their publications. Mm2276 ELEMENTS of remedies (815.); deficient, it requires ex-, citement by adequate irritation. Confolh. dation and cohefion are generally thus at-r rained fafely within thq fpace of t;hree Qr four weeks, Exploded Modes. I. Exclfion of the vaginal coat, &c. 1243. Experience has manifefted, that^ excifion of the vaginal coat of a tefticle, and of a portion of its integuments, how- ever enlarged and otherwife altered, (a plan of operation that has been projected for the radical cure of fcrotal hydrokele), is altogether unneceffary; therefore, becaufe exceedingly painful, it is cruelty 2. Injection. 1244. Through the fmall vent praflifed for the cure of fcrotal hydrokele (1231.) it has been fuppofed, that a fluid irritant matter may be injefted into the vaginal cavity of the fcrotum, that may fafely excite inflammation (776.) and give con- cretion. Vinous fpirit has been tried and found to be dangeroufly ftimulant f. * See Douglas on the Hydrocele, + See Sharp’s Surgery, p. 44.SURGERY. 277 3. Irritation from a folid. 1245. Allowing the lheath of the in- ftrument employed to form the vent for the palliative cure (1237.) of fcrotal hy- drokele.(.i 232.) to remain in contact with the tefticle for fome time to give the re- quiflte irritation and inflammation (776.) has been tried, and found to be inexpe- dient. Joint-Hydrokele, Appellations. Hydartiirus. Hydrops articuli. HyDROQELE ART1CULARIS. Joint-dropsy. Definition. 1246. Hydrokele (1198.), its feroflty fituated within a capfular membrane or ligament. Diagnojlic. I247- Joint-dropfy (1246.), not a rare occurrence, chiefly poflefles the knee-joint, is diflinguifhed by 1. Tumefaction (772.);278 ELEMENTS of 2. Fluctuation (780.) : _ 3. Indolence (1222.), at moft pain not acute. 0 Cure. * - , \ . I 1248. Abforption of the conftituent fluid of joint-dropfy (1246.) is generally fpontaneous, or procurable without arti- ficial vent. Evacuation from, its lurface by leeching (116.) and bliftering (111.) feem to be falutary 4. Pultaceous eucyjlcd Swelling. White Swelling. Appellations. Hydartheus. Auttor. Anchylosis. Fungus articulorum. Heijler. Hydarthrus synovialis. Simp/on. SCROPHULA ARTICULARIS (760.). * I have lately treated two ftrongly marked cafes of joint-dropfy. Both knee-joints of one patient were pofleflTed by it. Solution of fait of lead was employed without perceptible effedt. The afFedlion receded perfedtly by the applications mentioned above. I have never feeh it occupy any articulation except that of the knee.SURGERY. 279 LuPIA ARTICULI (1105.). TUMEUR BLANCHE. Definition. 1249. Encyfled fwelling (1229.), its condiment fluid, pultaceous (1105.) or nor purulent (784.), occupying the cavity of a joint, generally that of a larger one *. * Hydar.thr.us—Cyftis articuli aquofa. Sauva- GESIUS. Hyda rthrus—Articulorum, genu potiffimum, tu- mor, parum primo eininens, cuti concolor, dolentifli- mus, et mobilitatem imminuens. Cullenus. HydarTHRUS—Hydrops vel in capfa articulari, vel in cellulis vicinis, haud in tunica propria; tumor eft fluftuans, fine coloris mutatione, pulfatione. Sa- garus. Anchylosi 9—Tumor geniculorum, ligamenti cap- fulaeque tenfione expreffa fynovia. Anchylosis—Tumor ad genieula, mollis, pulpr*. fus, concolor. Linnaeus. Anchylosis—Articulorum rigor, quo flexus eo- rundem aut extenfio prohibetur. Vogelius. Fungus articulorum—In membrorum articulb tumor, qui abfque omni ferme calore ac dolore pallet, digitifque prementibus facile quidem, propter molli- tiem, cedit; fed ita tamen ut ad inftar fungi, remote digito, confeftim fefe rurfus expandat, nec foveas im- press retineat. Heisterus.*8o ELEMENTS <7f Diag?io/iic. 1250. White fwelling (1249.), a direful malady (28.), may occupy any articula- tion ; it, however, generally and frequent- ly poflefles the knee one. Special rtruc- ture (15.) may perhaps produce this fad. 1251. It is an eafy bulinefs to dirtiri- guifh between white fwelling (1249.) and joint-dropfy (1246.). The difcrimination of the former from joint-inflammation (993.), is'more difficultly acquired. Its principal fymptoms are 1. Pain, at its commencement obfcure, gradually becoming intenfe. It fufFers iil- tolerable aggravation by motion : 2. Swelling (772.) of the articular por- tion of the bones concerned in the joint is fometimes perceptible; always, how- ever, that of the foft parts inverting the articulation is prefentr differing flow in- Species of Hydarthrus, according to Sauvages, are, j. Hydarthrus fynovialis. Sympfon, Tumeur blanche. . 2. Hydarthrus flatulentus. Gonagra. Lufitani. Tumor genu loco puris ventkin cmittens. River,SURGERY. 281 creafe, peculiarly elaftic to the touch, and* till the affediion become inveterate, free from difcolouration ; then, indeed, in- flammation (776.) and ulcer * often in- vade : 3. Progrefs comparatively flow and chronic: 4. Scrophulous (late (757.), fometimes difcoverable in other parts of the fyftem: 5. Fluctuation within the joint, often perceptible: 6. Symptomatic fever (691.), in propor- tion, often ending fatally 7. Emaciation (761.), particularly in the vicinity of the aifedtion, and in the rate of its progrefs : 8. Cutaneous veins, often varicous (1175). 1252. DifleCtion difcovers the cellular fubftance, the capfular and other liga- ments of the joint affected by white fuel- ling (1249.), thickened and altered; the cartilages and articular ends of the bones more or lefs eroded and carious f; and, a fluid fometimes feemingly purulent (784.), but * See Ulcer. f See Caries. Vol. 11. N n * 1 *282 ELEMENTS of more frequently pultaceous (1105),collect- ed within the capfular cavity. Thefe cir- cumftances will correfpond with the du- ration of the affeCtion in queftion. Caufcs. 1253. Violence is frequently blamed as an exciting caufe (60.) of white fwelling (1249.). It is far from being improbable that it may originate from a particular conftitution, probably the fcrophulous one (757.)} which may be fo predomi- nant as to require either a flight co-ope- ration, or none, in order to produce the enumerated fyraptoms (1251.). termination. 1254. Difcuflion (782.) is the only fa- lutary termination of white fwelling (1249). This may be followed with 1. Complete function : 2. Diminifhed function and curvature ; a change named anchylofls: an event which feldom accedes, and to be reafon- ably expeCted only during the early ex- ifteilce of this terrible evil. s Cure. 1255. To procure difcuflion (1254.) of white fwelling (1249.) every effort is ob-SURGERY. 283 vioufly to be direded. The pradice with this view has been not a little various and perplexed. The chief applications recom- mended are 1. Antiphlogiflic remedies general and topical, .(822, 823.) : 2. Bliftering (1J l) : 3. Artificial ulcer or iflue * : 4. Mercury : 5. Fridion : . and when effufion has taken place, and jluduation flrongly perceptible, 6. Artificial opening f. 1256. Experience can boaft of few con- queils gained by the enumerated (1255.) dr f Strong fluctuation was perceptible in a cafe of white (Veiling of the knee-joint. I afforded the mat. ter an artificial vent. It was in great quantity, and atheromatous. The curd-part, by the motion of the joint, had been formed into fpheroidal poliflied mafTes, generally fomewhat larger than kidney-beans ; their number confiderable, above one hundred ; many of which I have preferved. The pain and (welling, in a great meafure inflammatory, foon became fo great as to render amputation indifpenfable. In genera!, if not always, this has been the refult of making inci- Jfion or opening into white (welling. * See Fontanel. N n 2284 ELEMENTS op i any other remedies over white fwelling (1249.) fo as to obtain its difperfion (1254), To fave life (25.) furgery is almoft ah ways compelled to make a fubftitution of wound by amputation f, a remedy that ought not to be with-held till the wafted condition of the ill-fated fufferer renders healing a precarious or impoflible event, a fatal error not feldom committed. 5. Aerial encyjled Swelling. Pneumatokele. Appellations. Pneumatocele. Empneumatosis. Aurelian, Pneumatosis. Emphysema. Hyderos, Galeni. Sarcites flatuosus, Tumor ventosus. Al R-SWELL1NG. Definition, 1257. Encyfted fwelling (1129.), of which the conftituent fluid is air *. 1 f See Amputation. # Pneumatosis—Elaftica et flatulenta cutis inm- niefcentia.I SURGERY. Diagnofiic. 1258. The diagnofiic (69.) of pnennfia* tokele (1257.) is chiefly derived from 1. Indolence: 2. Situation : 3. Occafional caufe: 4. Crackling perception and fonorofity, Emphysema—Tumor diffufus, elalticus, preffione crepitans, cuti concolor. Savvagesius. Emphysema—Flatus intra t unicam cellu'ofam par- tis. Emphysema—Tumor elalticus, concolor, diapha* nus, indolens. Linnaeus. Pneumatoses—Totius corporis intumefcentia a flatu. Emphysema—Tumor mollis, frigidus, in fingulan parte, ab aere cellulofum cutis habiium ingrelTo, for- matus. V ogelius. Pneumatosis—Corporis intumefcentia tenfa, ela-! ftica, lub manu crepitans. Cullenus. Emphysema—Phyma cuti concolor, elafticum, ex preflione aut percuflione crepitans. Pneumatosis—Intumefcentia univerfalis ab aere, ?d atta&um crepitans, elaflica, levis. Sagarus. Species of Pneumatofis, according to Sauvages, are; 1. Pneumatofis a venena. Linnaei. 2. Pneumatofis a vulnere. Tympanites univerfalis. Williffii. 3. Pneumatofis hylterica. Sydenham. 4. Pneumatofis febrilis. River. .tL586 ELEMENTS op Cure. s / 1259. Unlefs fituation forbid, affording a vent to the conftituent fluid of pneuma- tokele (1257.) experience juftified as expedient. DiJlinSlion. 1260. The chief diftindtion as to pneu~ matokele (1257.) refults from fituation. Chest-Pneumatokele. Definition. 1261. Pneumatokele (1257.) formed by extravafated air accumulated within a pleura. Diagnofiic. 1262. Cheft-pneumatokele (1261.) ori- ginates from the pulmonary air-veffels, de- ftroyed by violence, fometimes by inflam- mation (776.) * ; and is chiefly manifefled by diminilhed pulmonary fundtion, often * See PALFIN’sy/ttaifo/MW Chirurgicale, vol. ii. p. 169. A cafe is related of this affe&ion from ulceration of the lungs.287 SURGERY. attended with external, diffufed, emphyfe- matous fwelling *. Cure. 1263. The general method of cure (1259.) is abundantly applicable to cheft-pneuma- tokele (1261.), and generally fuccefsful f. It feems to be obvioully proper to preferve the vent pervious till the wound of the lungs be healed f. Tympany. Appellations. Tympanites. Typhos quartus. j Hydrops siccus. * Hydrops flatulentus. Tympania. Galeni. Tympanita. Sennert. Tympanias. Frommanni. Ascites flatulentus. *• See Empbyfeme. f See Obfervatious and Inquiries, vol. iii. Excellent remarks and fa&s refpefting this point are inferted, communicated by the late very ingenious MrHEWSON. t See Incision.288 Elements or Meteorismus. Exomphalus flatulentus. Pneumatocele abdominis. La Tympanite. Belly-pneumatokele. Definition. 1264. Pneumatokele (1257.) formed by air accumulated within the peritoneum, or more commonly within the inteftine *4 f Tympanites—Hydrops totius abdominis a fla- tu, feu elafticus et levis. Sauvagesius. Tympanites—Tumor abdominis renicens, pulfa- fatione fonitum edens, cum obftipatione et atrophia. Linnaeus. Tympanites—Abdominis fiatulenta intumefcen- tia, conftans, fonora. Vogel 1 us. Tympanites—Abdominis intumefcentia tenfa ; al- vus adftricla, caeterarum partium macies ; rejedto fur- fum vel deorfum aere levamen. Cullenus. % Tympanites—Intumefcentia totius abdofninis le- vis et elaftica, a pulfatione fonum edens, cum ructibus, borborygmis, conftipatione et doloribus abdominis. Sagarus. Tympanites—An immoderate diftenfion of the colon with air. Sir John Piiingle. Species of Tympanites, according to Sauvage9, are, .. 1, Tympanites inteftinalis. Smetn.SURGERY. 289 Diagnojlic. 1265. Tympany (1264.) is known by an equable diftenfion of the belly, pecu- liarly elaftic and fonorous when prefled or ftruck: but the difcrimination of the peritoneal variety from the inteftinal one is difficultly made. Indeed, it may be queftioned if the latter is a poflible event. The former is likely to fufler occafional 2. Tympanites abdominalis. ValeJJti. 3. Tympanites enterophyfodes. Combelufier. 4. Tympanites afciticus. Papa. 5. Tympanites fpafmodicus. Potiwie. 6. Tympanites Steward. 7. Tympanites verminofus. Meyzeriy. Meteorismus—Tnflatio flatulenta, vel epigaftrii, vel in morbo acuto ipfius abdominis. Sauvagesius. Meteorismus—Iritumefcentia flatulenta epiga- ftrii, hypochondriorum, vel totius abdominis, et pie- rutnque indolens. Sagarus. Meteorismus—Tympanites. Cullenus. Species of Meteorifmus, according to Sauyages, are, 1. Meteorifmus ventriculi. Injlatio ventriculi. Sennert. 2. Meteorifmus abdominis. 3. Meteorifmus hyftericus. Raulin* 4. Meteorifmus a manzanilla. PeyfontL VOL. II, Q o290 ELEMENTS of alteration of bulk, and may thus be fome- what marked. Cure. 1266. Peritoneal tympany (1264.) juft— } ly afcertained to exift, little objection can b: he ftated againft oppofing it by the gene- | *al method of cure (1259.) *• Womb-Pneumatokele. Appellations. Physometra. Hysterophysi. Pneumatocele uterina. Inflatio uteri. Sennert. Tympanite de la matrices AJlritc, 1 Definition. 126*7. Pneumatokele (1257.) formed by ;< air accumulated within the womb f. * See Incision. f Physometra—Conftans permanenfque tumor levisj elafticus, uteri figuram et fedem referens in mu- lierum hypogaftrio. Sauvagesius. Physometra—Conftans tumor a flatu uterum dif- tendente, rotundus^. elafticus, levis, in fede uteri. Sa- GARUS. ' . •SURGERY, 291 Diagnojlic. 1268. The exiftence of womb-pneuma- tokele (1267.), a rare affe&ion, is likely to be difcriminated chiefly by 1. Permanence : 2. Elaflicity. Cure. 1269. There feems little caufe of he- fitation with refpecl to affording evacua- tion to the air forming womb-pneumato- kele (1267.) ky the fame expedient fug- gefted to difeharge the ferofity of womb- hydrokele (1228.J. Scrotal Pneumatokele. Appellations. Oscheocele flatulenta. Physometra—Tumor levis, elafticus, in hypo- gaftrio, figuram et fedem uteri referens. Cullenus. Hysterophyse—Tumor hypogaftrii ab utero fla- tu diftento. Vogelius. Species of Phyfometra, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Phyfometra ficca. AJlruc. Tympanites uteri. Valefii. 2. Phyfometra humida. Aftruc. O o 2ELEMENTS of 2^2 Pneumatocele scrotalis. Windy rupture. Definition. 1270. Pneumatokele (1257.) formed by air congefted within the vaginal covering (tunica vaginalis) of a tefticle (teftis). DiagJtofiic and Cure. 1271. The exiftence of fcrotal pneumg.- tokele (1270.) is not generally admitted f. Its prefence (69.) and cure are difcover- ed and attained by the general principles fpecified (1259.). Joint-Pneumatorele. Appellations. Hydarthrus flatulentus. Pneumatocele articuli. Definition. 1272. Pneumatokele (1257.) formed by air colledied in the cavity of a joint. Diagnofiic. 12 73. Joint-pneumatokele (1272.), which rarely occurs, may perhaps be diftinguifh- f Pneumatokele—is a miftake : There is no tu- mour of this. kind. Pott.SURGERY. 293 ed, by careful touch, from fimilar tume- faction (772.). The joint of the knee is the only recorded refidence of this va- riety of air-fwelling j\ Cure. 1274. An accurate diagnoftic made (69.), the air conflituting joint-pneuma- tokele may be dilcharged by an oblique fmall wound, fo that the inftrument re- tired, it may as a valve prevent the ingrels of the furrounding air, and obviate much inconvenience. . 6. Biliary cncyjled Swelling. v Cholikele. Appellations. Cholicele. Tumor biliosus. Hepatalgia Petitiana. Sauvag. Bile-swelling. Definition. 1275. Encylted fwelling (1229.) form- ed by bile (bilis) morbidly accumulated in its bladder (velica fellis). f See Sauvagks. Nofol. Method, vol. i. p. 166, where two cafes of this affection are taken notice of.294 ELEMENTS of Diagnojlic. 1276. Cholikele (1275.) is recognifed by 1. Situation: 2. Circumfcription: 3. Jaundice (719.): 4. Pain: ' 5. Fluctuation (780.). Cure. 1277. When the gall-bladder, the cyft of cholikele (1275.), is adherent to the abdominal mufcles, the morbid accumu- lation of bile caufed by obftrucftion of the cyftic or common biliary duCt (dudtus communis cholidochus), often induced by gall-ftone, its contents may be dis- charged by chirurgic opening (B43.). If there is no adhefion, or the cyft is permit- ted to burft, the gall is diffufed within the peritoneum, and produces fatal ef- fects *. * See Memoirs de VAcademie Rcyale de Chirurgie, vol. i. p. 155. An inftru&ive communication is there recorded on this interefting point, by M. Petit. mI SURGERY. 29£ 7. Urinary encyjled Swelling. Urokele. Appellations. Ischuria vesicalis (714.)' Urocele vesicularis. Bladder ischury. Urine-swelling. Definition. 1278. Encyfted fwelling (1229.) form- ed by urine morbidly accumulated within its bladder (vefica urinae). . Diagnojlic. 1279. Urokele (1278.) is difcriminated, with fufficient accuracy, from other varie- ties of hypogaftric fwelling, by, 1. Sudden acceflion : 2. Preceding fuppreffion of urine (714.): 3. TumefaCtion (772.) painful efpecial- ly when prelfed, always to be felt, fome- times vilible: 4. Situation: 5. Figure: 6. Micturition. Caufes. 1280. Suppreflion of the excretion ofigb EL EM ENTS of urine from its bladder, and of courfe the generation of urokele (1278.) may be, 1. Organic: 2. Mechanical. 1281. Organic urokele (1281.) is a fymptom of an idiopathic affedftion (43.) of the bladder itfelf, which may be, 1. Inflammation (776.) of its neck and urethre: 2. Tonic convulfion (736.) of its fp'hinc- ter. » 1282. Mechanical urokele (1281.) is created by the preffure, or other adlion of foreign fubftances or neighbouring parts, namely, that of, t. The Hone (958.) in the bladder @r its urethre. 2. Bloody urine (242.). 3. Adjacent fwelling (772.). 4. The pregnant womb (248.). Cure. 1283. An accurate inveftigation of the caufes (1284.) of urokele (12.78.) can only lead to a fuitable method of cure. What- ever thefe may be, the painful diftenlionSURGERY. 297 ff the bladder of urine (which fometimes rrrives at an aftonifhing pitch*), and the iifk of its burfting f, demand urgently hhe evacuation of its contents, which may we attained by, 1. Rendering the urethre pervious 2. Chirurgic opening || (843.). [The former mode always to be ailiduoully attempted before reco.urfe be taken to the laatter, w^hich admits of confiderable va- riety, according to fex and other circum- lltances. * Mrs M‘K , a tall fhapely woman, during the (third or fourth month of pregnancy, had laboured 1 under urokele nearly three days; the fwelling, per- iceptible externally, was very great. By catheterifm, ■ eleven pints three gills of urine, Englifh meafure, ■ was difcharged. Perfeft return of function of the affe&ed organ happily I'uperfeded any farther opera- tion. f See Medical Obfervations and Inquiries, vol. l’v. in which two inftances of urokele producing burfting of the bladder, are recited by MefT. Hey and Lynn, Surgeons, die former in Leeds, the latter in Wood- bridge. $ See Catheterism. II See Incision. Vol. II. P p298 ELEMENTS of 8. Stercoraceous cncyjlcd Swelling. DeJijiition. 1284. Encyfted fwelling (1229.) form- ed by the excrementitious matter of the inteftine. Diagnojlic. 1.285. obvious, that, ftercoraceous- fwelling (1284.) can only be formed with- in the inteftine, and by obftruCtion from gut-inflammation (937»)> intuffufception * or fome foreign mafs f aCting mechanical- ly while this organ is entire, and, if burft within the peritoneum : its diagnoftic (69.) is. manifefted by, 1. Abdominal tumefaction (772.). 2. Coftivenefs (720.). 3. Vomiting (706.), particularly of the conftituent matter, or its difcharge by wound. CurL 1286. A diligent inquiry into circum- ftances, producing and attending ftercora- ceous fwelling (1284.), can only lead to a * See Intuflufception. 4 Concretions refembling the ftone have been dif- covered fatally impa&ing the inteftino.SURGERY. 299 i proper method of cure, and may fometimes, perhaps, warrant fome bold and uncom- mon furgery (96.) J, after other expedi- ents have been unavailing. Diffused humoral Swelling. Appellation. Tumor diffusus. Definition. 1287. Humoral fwe'lling (774.), its conftituent fluid not circumfcribed(i 103.), not contained in a proper cyft (1129.). Difiin Elion. 1288. According to conftituent matter, diffufed fwelling (1287.) is 1. Bloody. 2. Watery (ferous) (1198.). 3. Aerial. 1. Diffufed Blood-Swelling. Ecchymom. Appellations. Ecchymoma. 4 See Incision—Enterotomy. P p 2300 ELEMENTS of Ecchymosis. SUGILLATIO. Haematoole diffusa. Aneurysna spuriu'm. Varix spurium. VlBEX. Blotch. • t , Definition. 1289. Diffufed fwelling (1287.) formed by blood extravafated in the cellular or other fubflance *, * Ecchymoma—Macula nigricans, velatro-rubra, aut iivefcens, fucceffu temporis flavefcens, non conge- nita, nec afpfira, fed plana, aut parum prominens, aut fubfolitaria. Sauvagesius. Ecchymoma—Macula a fanguine per cutem quail effufo, livida vel nigra. Ilia Pelioma, haec Melafma fpeciatim dicitur. Vogejlius. % Ecchymoma—Tumor diffuffus, parum eminen.s, Iivefcens. Cullenus. Ecchymoma—Macula nigricans, vel atrorubra, coerulea, Iivefcens, in gilvum fucceflive definens colo- rem, nata a fanguine in telam adipofam lub cute ef- fufo. Sagarus. Sugillatio—Cruor effufus in tunicam cellulofam. Sugillatio—Tumor obfoletus, latus, luridus. Linnaeus.301 SURGERY. DiagnoJiic. 5290. Ecchymom (1289.) is vifible. !Terminations. 1291. Ecchymom (1289.), vifible, and frequently formed by contufing violence, the quantity of its blood not being too great, fuffers fpontaneous difcuffton (782.). The blood feems to undergo a gradual fo- lution, and to be abforbed (1200.). The Species of Ecchymoma, according to Savvages, are, 1. Ecchymoma ab i&u. Ecchymofis. Auftor. Sugillatio. Livor. Sennert. Contujion. Gallor. 1. Ecchymoma melafma. Galeni. Nigror. 3. Ecchymoma vibex. Vibices. Vulgor. 4. Ecchymoma fcorbuticum. 5. Ecchymoma a compreilione. 6. Ecchymoma hypopyon. JEginetae. Hypophthalmia. Mippoc. 7. Ecchymoma palpebrarum. Ecchymoma hypofphagma. ./Eginetac. Sugillatio. * Haematops. Hippoc. 8. Ecchymoma hyponychon. Subunguium. Sennert. «302 ELEMENTS of yellownefs which fucceeds the lividity o£ the morbid parts may be mentioned as a proof of this fact. The folids having re- ceived much injury, and the quantity of extravafated blood confiderable, fluctua- tion (780.) is perceptible, inflammation (776.) may enfue, and be terminated in mortification. Cure. 1292. Abforption of the blood conftitu- ting ecchymom (1289.) may promoted perhaps by friction; or, when confider- able, it may require chirurgic evacuation (843.). The inflammatory tendency (776.) will juftly defiderate the influence of the antiphlogiftic remedies (815.). 2. Dijfufied Water-Swelling. External Head-Hydrokele. Appellations. Hydrocephalus externus. Hydrocephale externe. Definition. 1293. Hydrokele (1298.), its fluid dif*SURGERY. 3°3 fufed in the cellular fubftance of the head,, external to the fkull. Diagnojlic. 1294. External head-hydrokele (1293.), a connate affedlion, and may be fo con- hderable as to obftrudt parturition ; it is vilible, and is farther manifefted by pe- culiar foftnefs. Cure. 1295. A fpontaneous abforption (1200.) for the molt, puts an end to external head hydrokele (1293.). This proceeding tar- dily may be promoted by fridtion, epif- paflies (111.), or ftimulants (120.), or chi- rurgic evacuation * may be reforted to. 1296. The fpecified method of cure (1295.} of external head-hydrokele (1293.} is fuited todiffufed watery fweliing (1293.) in any other fituation. 3. Dljfufed Air-Swellhig. Emphysem. Appellation. Emphysema. * See Incision.m ELEMENTS of Definition. 1297. Pneumatokele (1257.), its a*r dif- fufed in the cellular fubftance. Diagnoflic. 1298. Emphyfem (1297.), for the moft part, originating from wound of the pul- . monary air-veffels, or of the wind-pipe, is diftinguifhed by a peculiar crackling when prelfed, firft appearing in the vici- nity of the wound, and extending itfelf gradually, it fometimes becomes general. It may be artificially induced. Cure. 1299. When flight, emphyfem (1291.) lpontaneoufly difappears ; when more con- fide*'able, chirurgic opening (843.) may be afforded. Solid Swelling. Appellations. Tumor solidus. Tumeur solide. Definition. 1300. Swelling (772.) conftituted by the folid parts of the body chiefly (774-)*SURGERY. 30$ Diflinclion. 1301. Solid fwelling (1300.) muft ne* eelfarily be conftituted by, 1. Bone, or offeous pans (17.): 2. Flefh, or foft parts (17.). 1. Bone-Swelling. Appellations. Exostosis. Nodus. PaedarthrocacE. Freind. Hyperostosis. Ludwig. Exostose. Naeud* jDefinition* 1302. Solid fwelling (1300.) peculiarly hard, immoveable with refpedl to conti- guous bone, flowly formed, often indo- lent *t * Exostosis—Tumor oflis Vel totalis vel partia- lis. Sauvagesius. I Exostosis —Tumbr durus ex dfle prominent! finatus. , Linnaeus.- t Exostosis—Tumor in ofle circumfcriptus. Vo- Oelius. Vol. II, q3°6 ELEMENTS of Diagnojlic. 1303. Bone-fwelling (1302.), from'the 1 enumerated characters, cannot be mifta- 1 ken. It is mod frequently fymptomatic ii (44.) of venereal difeafe (766.), of king’s j evil (757.), of rickets (764.), of bone-in- :: ■ flammation (997.). Cure. 1304. Idiopathic bone-fwelling (1302.), | i Exostosis—Tumor durus offi infidens. Cul- LENUS. Exostosis—Tumor odls partialis, vel aliquando totius oflis, ut fubinde in minoribus fit, ad ofia acce- dens. Sagarus. Nodus—On prend communement pour nodus de petits tumeurs ou exoftofes en forme de petits naeuds qui s’elevent fur la fuperficie des os ec la rendent ine- gale. Tumeurs aflez ordinaires aux Vorales et aux Gouteux. Villa rs. Specie9 of Exoftofis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Exoftofis benigna. Petit. 2. Exoftofis rachitica. Ejufdem. Paedai'throcace. Severini. 3. Exoftofis cancrofa. Petit. 4. Exoftofis fcroph-ulofa. Ejufdem. <5. Exoftofis fcorbutica. Ejufdem. 6. Exoftofis fyphilitica. Ejufdem. 7. Exoftofis variolofa. Ejufdem. 8. Exoftofis fpuria. Ludwig. 9. Exoftofis ofteo fteatoma. Ejufdem:.SURGERY. 3°7 if acceflible and form and convenience require, may be removed by excifion \ This affection, when fymptomatic (44.), its chirurgical cure defiderates the ex- tinction of the idiopathic affection (43-) previoully. 2. Flesh-Swf.lling. Appellations. Sarcoma. Sarcocele. Condyloma. Definition. 1305. Solid fvvclling (1300.) conftitruted chiefly by component parts (17.) of the body (23.), not offeous or bone f. * See Amputati on . f Sarcoma—Excrefcentia carnis confiftentiam cir- citer obtinens. Sauvagesius. Sarcoma—Caro nuda enata e vivo vulnere. Lin- naeus. Sarcoma—Carnis incrementum tnberculi tumorif- ve fpecie. Cullenus. Sarcoma—Excrefcentia carnis confiftentiam fere habens, plerumque rubra. Sagarus. Q q 2ELEMENTS or 308 Diagnoflic. 1306. The diagnoflic (69.) of flefh-r fwelling (1305.) in general mufl be ob- vious. o- 4- 7- 8. 9- St Yves, Species of Sarcoma, according to Sauyagf.s, are, 1. Sarcoma vulgaris. Ex co rijf vice chamfer 2. Sarcoma narium. Polypus uarium. Polype du tiez. Sarcoma oculorum. Sarcoma cercofis. Polypus uteri. Cercofis. Aetii. Sarcoma natta. Napta dorft. Sarcoma leucophalum. Sarcoma fungofurn. Hyperfarcojis. Graecor. Sarcoma fcroti. Sarcocele. Heifteri. 10, Sarcocele varicocele. Circoceles. Ramex varicofus. 11. Sarcoma encanthis. St Yves. Borelli. Heifter. Condyloma—Excrefcentiae forma carnibus du. rior, ofiibus mollior. Sauvagesius. Condyloma-.-Tunica interior relaxata, gibba. Linnaeus. Condyloma—Tubercuhim ^urum, pene indoJens,.SURGERY.. 7. Condyloma porrura. 309 Caufe. 1 1307. It is by no means an eafy enter- prize to unfold the caufe of flefh-fwell** ing (1305.) in general, giving it creation in different fituations and bellowing on it no fmall degree of diverfity as to form, confiftence, 8tc. 'Termination* 1308. Few of the varieties of flefh- in ani margine. Ejus fpecies Ficus, Thymus, a figura jta di&ae. Vocelius. Condyloma—rExcrefcentia eminens vel non emi- nens, firmior carnibus et cute, mollior contra offibus, non elaftica. Sagarus. \ Species of Condyloma, according to Sauvages* are, 1. Condyloma tylus. 'Tyloma. Graecor. Calloftle. 2. Condyloma clavus. Cor des pies. 3. Condyloma callus. Senncrt, Cains ou Cal. 4. Condyloma ganglion. Hei/ler. 5. Condyloma ficus. Syfco/ls. Graecor, 6. Condyloma thymus. Crctes pendiloques.310 ELEMENTS of fwelling (1305.) have been obferved to de- creafe and difappear fpontaneoufly ; on the contrary, in general, a gradual aug- mentation has been marked, and, from its incipient (late of colourlefs indolence, it becomes inflamed, (776.) peculiarly pain- ful and ulcerated *, admitting fcarcely of check, and never of cure by the influ- ence of any known pharmaceutic applica- tion, notwithftanding the boaflings of fome writers f. Care. 1309. Amputation | of flefh-fwelling {1305.), as yet fmall and incipient, or be- fore its veffels become dangeroufly en- larged, portending much haemorrhage (13 7.), or before it fuffer the fpecified change (1308.) and contaminate its vicinity, is the method of cure moft generally fan&ioned by reafoning and experience. This is performable by the ufe of 1. The knife : * See Cancer. | See Storck’s Treal ife on Hemlock; &c. See Goulard’s Trcatife on Lead. | See Amputation.SURGERY. 311 2. Comprefiion inducing mortification (788.), formed by ftrict binding or ligature about its (talk or root: / 3. Cauftics (127.) : 4.. Any inftrument calculated forceful- ly to perform its eradication *. 1310. Of the enumerated methods (1309.) of fubftituting wound for flelh- fwelling (1305.), the firft, in general, is preferable ; peculiar fituations or other cir- cumfiances may render an occafional a- doption of the other expedient. Variety. 1311. A confiderable variety of flefli- fwelling (1305.), refulting from appear- ance, confidence, fituation, &c. have been marked, and varioufly denominated. Be- caufe a fpeciality of curative procedure may thence refult, a recital may be jufii- fied. Scirrhus. Appellations. SciRRHtrs. SciRRHOSITOS®- ✓ * See Amputation.ELEMENTS of 312 SciRRHOSIS. Squirre. Definition. 1312. Flefli-fwelling (1305.) peculiarly hard, occupying chiefly parts demonftra- bly glandular, its furface varioufly une- qual and rugged *. * Scirrhus—Tumor durus, indolens, concolor, renitens. Sauvagesius. Scirrhus—Glandula indurata. Scirrhus—Nodus durus, afper, concolor, indo- lens, rotundatus, preffioni infenfilis. Linnaeus. Scirrhus—Tumor durus, indolens, concolor, re- nitens. VoGELIUS. Scirrhus—Partis pleruraque glandulae tumor du- rus, non dolens, aegre fuppurans. Cullenus. , Scirrhus—Phyma durum, indolens, gravans, fri- gidum, in partibus glandulofis enatum, dum externum cuti quoque concolor obfervatur. Sagarus. Species of Scirrhus, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Scirrhus hepatis. Squirre ait Joy e. 2. Scirrhus lienis. Squirre a la rate. y. Scirrhus lupia. Avtceimae. Glandula. Lupia. Caftelli. 'Tumeur fquirreiife, fcrophttleufe*SURGERY. 313 Dwgnojlic. 1313. Attention diredted to the enume- rated characters of fcirrhus (1312.), its di- agnoftic (69.) is likely to be afcertained with accuracy. i • r ' ' 1314. Scirrhus (1312.), like farcomatous fwelling in general (1305.), is peculiarly liable to incur thefpecifiedchanges (1308.): its ulcerated ftate is cancer *. It often re- mains, however, indolent and ftationary for many months and even years. 1315. Thehiftory of fcirrhus (1312.) does not feem to afford fuflicient authority to warrant the conclufion, that, there ever exifts a fcirrhus diathefis, or conlfitution; on the contrary, it appears to be a fact, that it is an affedtion, in its commence- ment very ftridtly local (41.) f. * See Cancer. f A woman of a corpulent habit fuffered fuccefsful amputation of one of her breath, which had become fcirrhous, and was verging rapidly to cancer. Some years afterwards, the died a few days after child-bed. Difleftion difcovered a fcirrhous pear-lhaped fwelling ariling from the abdominal furface of the bottom of the womb. Vol. II. R r3*4 ELEMENTS of 1316. The milk glands, after the ceffa- J tion of the menftrual difcharge, feem to be 1 very fufceptible of fcirrhous induration and fwelling (772.) f. Cure. 1317. The curative principle, dated as- applicable to farcomatous fwelling (1305.), in general is peculiarly expedient, for the caufe afligned (1308), to fuperfede the dan- gerous, horrible, and often fatal confe- quences of the acceflion of inflammation (776.) which is difcovered by its proper fymptoms. The earlier its adoption the more profperous. Relying on the affec- tion remaining ftationary, is temerity little removed from madnefs. Varieties. 1318. According to fituation, fcirrhus is varioufly confequential and denomina- ted. j. I faw one indance of fcirrhus degenerated into cancer, afFetting the mammary glands of a male pa- tent. Amputation was fuccefsfully applied.SURGERY. 315 l . / - - - "> Sarcokele. appellations. Sarcocele. Audor. Sarcoma scroti. SCIRRHUS TESTIS. Scirrhous testicle. Dejinition. 1319. Scirrhus (1312.) occupying a tefticle Diagnojlic. 1320. Attention to the characters of fcirrhus (1312.) will eafily difcriminate be- tween it and any other fcrotal tumefaction (772.). The correfpondent l’permatic chord being unaltered, marks its locality (41.). Cure. 1321. Sarcokele (1319.), not the efleCt of inflammation (776.) or venereal difeafe, * Sarcocele—Teftis farcoma aut fcirrhus. Vo- GELIUS. Sarcocele—1 efticulus indurefcit, et in eo fcir- rhus fit. Vel inter tunicas ipfis etiaiu arteriis venif- que, ex quibus tefticulus dependet, carnes incrcfcunt. l£ctf>KOK>itoir Graeci vocant. Platnerus. R r 23i6 ELEMENTS of efpec'ially if acquiring augmentation and pain, demands amputation *. The mod fatal effects have refulted from unfcienti- fic delay f. Piiyscony. Appellations. Physconia. Hyposarca. Sc IRRII US ABDOMINALIS. Definition. 1322. Scirrhus (1312.) occupying one or more of the abdominal organs * See Castration. f I have in my pofleflion both the tefticles of a middle aged man in a fcirrhous ftate, for which caltra* tion was inftituted. £ Physconia—.Tntumefcentia abdominis a parti- bus folidis, fine graviditate et flucluatione. Sauva- gesius. Physconia — Intumefcentia abdominis longa, a niagnitudine habituve vifceris mutato. Vogelius. Physconia—Tumor quandam abdominis partem potiffimum occupans, paulatim crefcens, nec fouora nec flu&uans, Cullenus.SURGERY. 3r7 ♦ Diagnojlic. 1323. Phyfcony (1322.), often produc- tive of afcitic dropfy (1221.) and other Physconia—Inrumefcentia abdominis a partibus folidis praeternaturalis, fine graviditate, fludtuatione, et elafi; ad ta&um dura, refiftens, parenchymatica. Sagarus. Species of Phyfconia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Phyfconia hepatica. Cujfon. Scirrhodea. Seger. Calculofa. Bonet. Hydatidofa. Winckeri. 2. Phyfconia fplenica. Cujfon, Emphraciica. Haller. Scirrhodea. Bonet. 3. Phyfconia renalis. Cujfon. Calculofa. Plater. Sarcomatico-cyjlica. Haller. 4. Phyfconia uterina. Bonet. 5. Phyfconia ab ovario. Monroo. 6. Phyfconia mefenterica. Cujfon, Hydatidofa. Horflii. Strumofa. Bonet. Scirrhodea. Donati. Sarcomatica. Bonet. Steatomatofa. Cabrol. Bungofa. Bonet. 7- Phyfconia inteftinalis. Cujfon. Concrete -glomerat a. Morgagni. Sarcomatica. Fantoni. 8. Phyfconia omentalis. Reebman. 9. Phyfconia polyfplachna. Cujfon.3i8 ELEMENTS of grievous difafters, is diftinguifhable (69.) from other varieties of abdominal fwelling 1. Peculiar hardnefs : 2. Partiality * : 3. Situation : Scirrhodea. Hikiani. Scirrhodea et farcomatica. Huldenreich. Scirrhodea et adipofa. Bartholin. Hydatidofa. Coiter. Hydatidofa et j'cirrhofa. Haller. 10. Phyfconia vifceralis. Bonet. Megalofplachnos. Hippoc. Mcgalofplachna. CulTon. 11. Phyfconia externa lupialis. Ejufdem. 12. Phyfconia externa feirrhoidea. Ejufdem. 13. Phyfconia externa hydatidofa. Ejufdem. 14. Phyfconia ab adipe fubcutaneo. Ejufdem, Simplex. Lieutaud. Syphilitica. Fizes. 15. Phyfconia ab excrefcentia. * A female of a delicate conflitution, aged upwards of fifty years, laboured under an abdominal tumefac- tion, which had rifen gradually to a tnoft enormous pitch. Phyfcony in part was obvioufly conflituent of it: A partial fluctuation infinuated, that afcitic dropfy was combined with it. Anxious to alleviate her mi- fery, I twice performed tapping. The difeharge of fluid was final]’. Upon difieCtion, I found her left kidney monflroudy enlarged and indurated ; its weight was fomewhat more than forty, five pounds.319 SURGERY. 4. Slow accefhon : 5. Difturbed function of the affected organ : 6. Touch in fome fituations—the womb, the bladder of urine f, &c. Cure. 1324. The fituation of phyfcony (1322.) precludes chirurgic cure ( 96.). Phar- maceutic medicine (95.) has ever been, and, it is to be feared, ever will be found, if not aggravating and detrimental, at mod greatly unavailing. Dietetic regulation (94.) may afford palliation or prevent progrefs. Lipom. Appellatio?is. Lipoma. The liver of a man whom I diflected was enlarged fo as to occupy the greateft fhare of the abdominal cavity: its weight could not be lefs than eighteen pounds. f The fcirrhous or thickened ftate of the bladder of urine, it is to be dreaded, often blafts expectation from cyftotomy, a circumftance deferving of attention from the furgeon.320 ELEMENTS of Natta. Lupia steatoma. Sauvagcs. Loupe graissjeuse. Definition. I325* Flefti-fwelling (1305.) fubcuta- tieous, formed chiefly by a morbid growth of a portion of the cellular fubftance *. Diagnofiic. 1326. Lipom (1325.) is often difficult- ly diftinguilhable from wen (1105.). Its diagnoftic (69.) is chiefly collected from 1. Confluence, it is foftifh : 2. Slow progrefs : 3. Lobular appearance when fuperflcial. * Lipoma—Lipome, ou loupe graiffeufe, eft tu~ meur enkifte'e, ou efpece de loupe, forme'e par une graifle epaifTie dans quelque cellule de la membrane adipeufe. II en vieni quelquefois de fort groftes entre les epaules. Villars. Natta—Sarcoma dorfi penfile maximum eft ex- crefcentia petiolata multum excrefeens, dorfo accreta, quae pondere aggravat, fitu et mole decubitui nocet. Sauvagesius. Natta—Tumor tunicatus, mufculis frradicatus, emiiiens, pulpofus, indolens. Linnaeus.SURGERY* Cure. 1327. No fpeciality of cure is indica- ted with refpedt to lipom (1325*)* As foon as accurately difcovered, unlefs fome cir- cumftantial objection can be Hated, dif- fedtion* ought to be adopted : the larger the more difficult. 1 Polype. Appellations. Polypus. Cercosis. Polype. Dejinitimi. 1328. Fleffi-fwelling (1305.), often round- iffi and ftalked, exifting in the nofe, the throat, the gullet f, the external palfage of the ear, and that of the womb * See Amputation. f The hiftory of a remarkable cafe of polype in the gullet, ingenioufly treated by Mr Dallas, is inferted in Ejjays Phyftcal and Literary, vol. iii. pi 525. ^ Polypus—Sarcoma intra nares (fauces, oefopha- gum, &c.) praelongum, pluribus appendicibus adhae- rens. Vogelius. Vol. II. S f t322 ELEMENTS of Diagnojiic. 1329. The diagnoflic (69.) of polype (1328.) can hardly be overlooked. Cure. 1330. The plan of cure fuited to far- comatous fwelling (1305.) in general, is applicable fully to polype (1328.). Its early performance is favourable, becaufe want of fpace in the particularized cavi- ties to manage inftruments is in propor- tion to its fize. Amputation by ligature (130.9) is commonly the mode*. Polypus—Excrefcentia internae narium vel fau- cium membranae, farcomatica aut mucofa, variae fi- gurae. Sagarus. Cercosis—Polypus uteri eft excrefcentia carnofa molis majoris, quae ex utero vel vagina propendet, et hyfterocelen quandoqtie mentitur. Sauvagesius. * From the external orifice of the womb, a polype' of the fize of the head of a new-born child protruded - the patient’s friends believed parturition to have ac- ceded. It was connected to the internal orifice by a peduncle. During- my attempting to inclofe it in li- gature, it was totally detached. I\o inconvenience followed. See Memoirs de l* Academic Royale de Chirurgie, vol. iii. p. 518.; from which, important information on this point may be gathered.SURGERY. S £ 2 3*2 Gum-Sarcom. Appellations. Epulis. Sarcoma epulis. Epulie. Definition. 1331. Flefh-fwelling (1305.) feated on the gum (gingiva) *. Pterig. Appellations. Pterygium. Ungula. Panis. Unguis. Onyx. Ongelet. * Epulis—Tuberculum in gingivis,fme inflamma. done. Vogelius. Epulis — Sarcoma in gingivis dentium praecipue enatum, licet fubin et in aliis locis oris vifum. Sa- <?arus.324 ELEMENTS or Definition. 1332. Flelh-fwelling (1305.) on the an- terior furface of the eye-ball, ftretching to « its lucid portion *. Film. Appellations. Leucoma. * Pterygium—Excrefcentia carnea, vel membra- naceo-vafculofa, ad oculi canthum exorta, alam ex- panfam referens, et verfus corneam fe extendens. Sauvagesius. Pterygium—Cuticula excrefcens e cantho oculi, fuperficiern ejus obtegens. Linnaeus. .7 Pterygium — Excrefcentia membranulae forma rubra fupra album oculi. Vogelius. Ungula—Membrana ungulae crefcentis formam referens, per fcleroticam verfus corneam extenfa. Sa- garus. PannUs—Congeries vaforum fupra album oculi, ipfamque corneam expanforum, memoranam unifor- niem referentium. Sagarus. Species of Pterygium, according to Sauvages, are, I. Pterygium ungula. Hcifler. Onglet. ■2. Pterygium pannus* Le drapeau.4. Leucoma gerontoxon. Mauchart. SURGERY. 33$ Ajlchys. Albugo. Perla. Taye. Speck. Definition. 1333. Flefh-fwelling (1305.) occupying the lucid portion of the eye-ball (cornea > lucida) *. Cure. 1334. The removal of film (1333.) ought obvioully not to be attempted by furgery (69.) where it fully pervades the lucid membrane of the eye-ball. * Leucoma—Macula opacans corneam. Sauva- GESIUS. Leucoma—Macula corneae pelluciditatem vitians, opacans. Sagarus. Species of Leucoma, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Leucoma nephelium. Nebula. Latinor. Acblys et JEgis. Graecor. 1. Leucoma albugo. Margarita. Latinor. Paralampfis. Graecor. PerU. 3. Leucoma cicatrix.326 ELEMENTS op Caruncle. Appellations. • Caruncula. AuElorum. Sarcoma urethrale. Caruncula virgae. Dysuria a caruncula. Carnosite de l’uretere. Definition. !335- Flefti-fwelling (1305.) exifting in the urethre (urethra). Diagnojlic. 1336. Caruncle (1335.) is detected by its proportionally difturbing the excretion of the urine, fometimes inducing total fup- preflion (714.). It frequently is confequent to clap (1067.). Cure. 1337. Pteffure procured by the intro- duction of bougies (candelae cereae) is ufe- ful, and fometimes curative of caruncle (1335*) > it Fas been propofed to fuperadd 10 the bougie a pharmaceutic influence (95- )•SURGERY. 32 7 Corn. vjo ' o Oil ^ji£)£3q fci/C* Appellations. Clavus. Condyloma clavus. Cor. Definition. 1338. Flefh-fwelling (1305.), in con- fidence refembling horn, fituated on the feet *. Cure, 1339. Corn (1338.), a very common and painful affedlion, may obtain 1. Palliation from the tepid bath (410.), and partial occafianal excifion : * Clavus—Verruca in tendinibus radicatar baft feiifibilis. Linnaeus. Clavus—Tuberculum album, rotundum,callofuin, in digitis plantifque pedis.- Vogelius. , Clavus—Cuticulae craffities,dura,lamellata. Cul- lenus. Clavus—-Excrefcentia dura, callofa, periofteo, cu- ti, aut tendinibus mufculorum pedum manuumve ad- haerens, nucleum in centro habens. In humido acre dolent pruriuntque clavi. Sagarus.328 ELEMENTS of 2. Eradication, by the knife * ; againfl this practice no valid objection occurs. Wart. Appellations. Verruca. Acrochordon. Verruca gregalis. Verrue. Definition. 1340. Flefli-fwelling (1305.) round and prominent, lefs confident than corn (1338), occupying any part of the cutaneous fur- face of the body f. * See Amputation. f Verruca—Excrefcentia cutanea, prominens, condylomate minor, fenfu deftitu;a, intlolens. Sau- •VAGESIUS. Verruca—Papilla nervea, intumefeens, indurata. Verruca—Papula durior, fcabra, ficca, indolens. Linnaeus. Verruca—Tuberculum fupra cutem durum, afpe- rum, feflile, vel penfile. Vogelius. Verruca—Extuberatio dyrior, fcabra. Cui.ee- NUS.SURGERY. 3^9 ' .. : :> Cure. 1341. Wart is often fymptomatic (44.) of venereal difeafe (766.), and is then refi- 1 dent about the genital parts. Idiopathic • wart, large and inveterate, like other far- eomatous fwelling (1305.), often becomes cancerous * ; a fadl that Itrongly inculcates ! timeous eradication Thyme. Appellations. Thymus. Ficus. Condyloma ficus. Verruca—Excrefcentia cutanea, prominens, vlx fenfibilis, ipdolens, praerupta feu afpera fuperficie. Sagarus. Species of Verruca, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Verruca fimplex. Acrochorclon. Graecor. 2. Verrue. Verruca gregalis. 3. Verruca fyphilitica. Verrue fyphilitique. * See Cancer. f See Amputation. Yol. II. T tCrista. Fungus. Porrum. Myrmeceum. Definition. 1342. Flelh-fwelling (1305.) more or lefs pendulous and projecting, fituated in the vicinity of the anus *. Cure. 1343. The remarks made refpedting the cure of wart (1341.) apply fully to that of thyme (1342.) and its alfociates. * Thymus, &c.—-Condylomata fyphilitica puden- dorum et ani: alia criftas, alia flores thymi, alia braf- A {icam taulifloram referunt, turn figura, turn colore j unde diverfa nomina. Sauvagesius.33* SURGERY. r ■ , II, DISLOCATION. Appellations. Ectopia. Dislocation Aberratio. Error loci. Deplacement. Displacement. Definition. I 1344. A morbid alteration of the Iitua» tion of any organ of the animal body *• Dijlin Elion. 1345. Dillocation (1344.), Itridly an or- ganic derangement (28.), becaufe it re- ipeds immediately the entire organ, and not any morbid change of its intimate * Ectopia—Partium folidartim e fua fede dimo- tio, fenfibus obvia. SauvagesiuS. Ectopia—Partium folidarum e fua fede dimotio, fenfibus obvia, continentibus has relaxatis. bAGA- RUS. Ectopia—Pars ex fua fede dimotio, rumorem fa. fiens. Cullenus. T t 2332 EL EM ENTS of ftrudture (15.), according to circumflances, admits- of diftindtions named, 1. Rupture: 2. Defcent: 3. Luxation'. 1. Rupture., Appellations. Hernia. Ramex. Mernie. Hernial swelling. Herniary tumour. Definition. 1346. Dislocation (1344.) of a portion of the foft parts of the animal body (23.), con- cealed by the integuments or other fub- ilance *. # Hernia—Inteftini obte&i ultra fedem propriam protrufio., Linnaeus. Hernia—Partis mollis e&opia cute et aliis integu- trientis adhuc tecta. Cuelenus. Hernia—Hernia adefle dicitur, cum funftio faria laeditur, quia pars mollis, interna, ex fede fua natu. ISURGERY. 335 Diagno/iic. 1347. The organs contained in the ca- vity of the head, of the cheft, and of the belly (abdomen), varioufly difplaced, crea- ate rupture (1346.), which neceflfarily takes place at the point of the containing parts leaft fupported or refiftent, like aneuryfm (■ I59-)- 1348. The ftrudture (15.) and connec- tion of the abdominal contained organs peculiarly favour a degree of locomotion : rupture (1346.), therefore, as might be ex- pedted, moft frequently exifts upon the cir- cumference of the belly (1347.). Accord- ingly the general dodtrine to be delivered refpecling this affedtion chiefly refers to it in this fltuation. 1349. The exiftence of rupture (1346.) i$ detected with facility, according to fitu- ation. Its chief fymptoms (65.) are, rali egrefla, intra cavum alius partis mollis morbofe recepta eft. Gaubius, Pathol. § 230. Hernia—A fwelling produced by the falling down or protrulion of fome part, or parts, which ought na- turally to be contained within the body. Pott gk Ruptures, § r. *334 ELEMENTS of 1. Tumefaction (772.), generally evident or perceptible. 2. Sudden acceffion, efpecially after un- common exertion : 3. Sudden receffion obtained by prelfure or varied polture: 4. Interrupted function of the difplaced parts. 1350. Rupture may be confounded with inguinal bubo (1049.), with fcrotal Eydrokele ( 1232.), and with farcokele (1319.), which, on account of external fi- milarity, have been named falfe raptures (herniae fpuriae). But due attention to ftructure (15.) of the parts concerned, to the hillory (70.) of the doubtful affection, will furnilh a full difcrimination. Rupture-Sac. Appellations. Saccus herniosus. Saccus iiernialis. Definition i 1331. The in veiling membrane of the cavity (1347.) from which rupture (1346.)SURGERY. 335 is formed, protruded with and containing the difplaced organs. 1352. Peritoneum of a texture very diftenfible, forms the fac (1351.) of all the varieties of abdominal rupture, which, is very conftantly prefent. Reducible Rupture, Definition. 1353. Rupture (1346.), its conflituent parts capable of reduction. Irreducible Rupture. Dcfnition. 1354. Rupture (1346.), its conftituent parts not capable of repofition. 1355. The external furface of rupture fac (1351-) frequently forms concretion to the parts to which it becomes contiguous in the protruded Rate. Concretion at the fame time often takes place between its internal furface and the contained parts ; events that effectually prevent its own re-* pofition, as well as that of the organs it invefts: irreducible rupture (1334.) is thus produced. A circumftance meriting336 ELEMENTS of much attention, incident only to invete- rate rupture. Cquifes. 1356. The principal predifpoling (58.) and occafional (60.) caufes of rupture (1346.) are 1. Peculiar conformation : 2. Laxity of containing part§ : 3. Vifceral diftenlion : - 4. Straining efforts ; 5. Wound. Cure. 1357. The indications of cure (99.) of diflocation in general (1344.), and con- sequently of rupture (1346.), are necef- farily 1. Reduction or repofition. 2. Retention. 1358. Reduction (1357*) or replacing the organs conftituting rupture (1346.) is of obvious propriety; when timely at- tempted, generally practicable : Sometimes it is exceedingly difficult and impracticable by the touch (taxis), even when it is not irreducible (1254.) in the acceptation ex- plained. 1359. Reduction (1358.) of herniary337 S U R G E R T. parts by the touch (1358.), or without in- cifion *, is affedled by accommodated 1. Preffure with the hand : 1. Pofture ? c „ > or trie patient: 3. Agitation y 4. Cold: 5. Pharmaceutic medicine (95-.). 1360. Retention (1357.) of herniary parts (1346.) happily reduced (1359.) is to be fought for from the influence of fuit- < ed deligation f. 1361. The fpecified method (1359-) of treating rupture (1346.) admits of confi- derable diverfification according to occur- rences. Cure of Reducible Rupture. 1362. With refpetfl to rupture (1346.) the molt completely reducible (1353.), the mentioned plan of cure (1357.) feldom produces more than palliation; in fome fortunate instances of this affection exifling in young fubje6ls, accurate and perfevering retention (136c.) has been rewarded with : radical cure. * See Kf.lotomy. a. t See DKHGAriON. VoL. II. U VLELEMENTS op 33» 1363. Rupture-fac (1351.) remaining in a flate of protrufion, after the hernial parts (1346.) have been reduced (1359.)?1S a great bar to the radical cure. It obvi- oplly prevents the contraction of the hole or orifice through which rupture had been formed. This the ancient furgery pro- pofed to deftroy by future (futura regia, punctum aureum),and by cauftics (127.)*. Cure of Irreducible Rupture. 1364. Rupture (1346.) become irredu- cible (1354.) admits of very limited pal- liation only, which is afforded by fuited deligation f, communicating fupport and protection io as to prevent aggravation and injury. Varieties. 1365. Appellations have been impofed ©n the numerous varieties of rupture (1346.) from two circumffances; 1. Contents : 2. Situation. - -f- See Suture. 4 See DELiGATioisr.SURGERY. 33f I. Variety from contents. Brain-Rupture. .Appellations. Encephalocele. Hernia cerebri. Definition. 1366. Rupture (1346.) conftituted by the brain (encephalon) *. Caul-Rupture. Appellations. Epiplocele. Auftor. * Encephalocele—Cerebri, cerebelli, aut utrw ufque (verbo encephali), per odium cranii non penitus ollilicatorum hiatum prorumpentis, eftopia herniofa- Sauvagesius. Encephalocele—Cerebrum per hiatum calvae extrorfum eminens. Vogelius. Encephalocele—Cerebri aut cerebelli, vcl utri* ufque fimul per hiatum oflium cranii necdum fat co- haerentium e&opia herniofa, relaxata pariter lamina utraque durae matris et piae, externa tenuifliraa, pel- lucida; fymptomata fubin non magna, fubin contra graviffima cauflans. Sagarus. See Lieutaud’s Hijlor. Anatomico-Medic. vol. ii» p, 280. U U 234° ELEMENTS of Hernia omentalis. Epiploc fle. Omental rupture. Definition. 1367. Rupture (1346.) formed by the caul (omentum) *. Stomach-Rupture, Appellations. Gastrocele. Gastric rupture. Definition. 136B. Rupture (1346.) conftituted by the ftomach, generally fituated in the epi- gaflric region. Vomiting is a fymptom f. * Epiplocele—Hernia omenti. Sauvagesius. Epiplocele — Efpece de hernie caufee par la chute tie I’epiploon dans Paine, on dans le fcrotum. Villars. t Gastrocele—Ventriculi trails laxatos,didudos regionis epigaftricae parietes, imrno per umbilici annu- lum elapfi, edopia herniofa. Sauvagesius. Gastrocele—Tumor in fcrobiculo cordis vulgo dido, vel ad minus fupra umbilicum, infolitus, hepnio.• I SURGERY. 341 Gut-Rupture. Appellations. Enterocele. Hernia intestinalis. Intestinal rupture. Definition. 1369. Rupture (1346.) formed by $ portion of the inteftine *. Liver-Rupture. Appellations. Hepatocele. Hernia hepatica. fus, ventriculum aut alia vifcera elapfa continens, cuti concolor, reponibilis, in decubitu dorfali fponte rece- dens, indolens, ex relaxatione integumentoram unde- cunqne orta natus, vomitum cauiTans. Sagarus. See Memoirs de P Academie Royal de Chirurgie, tom. iv. p. 190. * Enterocele—Hernia inteftini. Sauvagesius.343 ELEMENTS of Definition. I37°* Rupture (1346.) containing the Jiver *. Spleen-Rupture. Appellatioms. $ Splenocele. Hernia splenica. Definition. 1371. Rupture (1346.) formed by the fpleen f. Kidney-Rupture. Appellations. Nephrocele. * Hepatocele—Hepatis trans laxatos, diduftos, in umbilici vicinia, abdominis parietes, vel per ipfurn umbilicum, ettopia herniofa. Sauvagesius. f Splenocele—Lienis trans laxatos, diduttos ab- dominis in latere finiftro parietes, vel per inguinalem ejufdem lienis annulum elapfi, e&opia herniofa. SaU* YAGESIUS.SURGERY. 343 Hernia renalis. Renal rupture. Definition. 1372. Rupture (1346.) formed by a kidney *. Womb-Rupture. Appellations. Hysterocele. Hernia uterina. t Definition. 1373. Rupture (1346.) conftituted by the womb f. * Nephrocele—Both kidnies of a young man, whom I carefully infpe&ed, were diftin&ly the cOnftiJ tuent organs of rupture. The one was more percep- tible through the containing parts than the other The ureter could be traced a confiderable way. No fac could be prefent. There feemed to be malforma** tion of the lumbar mufcles. f Hysterocele—Uteri trans annulos inguinales, aut laxatos abdominis parietes elapfi, e&opia herniofa-. Sauvagesius.344 ELEMENTS ot Bladder-Rupture. Appellations. Cystocele. Hernia vesicalis. Definition. 1374. Rupture (1346.) conftituted by the bladder of urine f. # Gut-and-Caul Rupture. Appellation. Entero-epiplocele. Definition. 1375. Rupture (1346.) created by the aaul (omentum) and inteftine (inteftinum) combined! y f Cystocele—Veficae urinariae tra'ns annulos inguinales Tub arcubus cruralibus, et per laxatos, di- duflos perinaei, hypogaftrii, nec non vaginae parietes elapfae, eftopia herniofa. Sauvagesiu?. * Entero-epiplocele—Hernie danslaquellePirv- teftin et Pepiploon font toinbe's enfemble dans l’aine. ou dans le fcrotum. Villars.SURGERY. 345 2. Variety from Situation. Navel-Rupture. Appellation's. Exomphalus. Exomphalos. Omphalocele. Umbilical rupture. Deflation. 1376. Rupture (1346.) formed through the umbilical ring (umbilicus) *. Inguinal Rupture. Appellations. Bubonocele. * Exomph a los—Umbilical rupture, fo called from fituation, has, like the other, for its general contents a portion of inteftine, or omentum, or both. Pott. Omphalocele—Tumor ab ingreflo inteftino omen- tove vel utroque conjunctim ex umbilico. Omphalocele—Tumor herniofus ad umbilicum rcponibilis, cuti coiicolor, indolens plerumque, ex re- laxatione integumentorum et peritonaei natus, viria vifcera coritinens. SagAr.us. Vol. II. x X346 ELEMENTS of Hernia inguinalis. Hernia scrotalis. \ Groin-rupture. Definition. !377- Rupture (1346.) formed through an abdominal ring, or flit of the tendon of the external oblique mufcle *. Congenial Rupture. Appellation. Hernia congenita. Definition. - - - 1378. Inguinal rupture (1377O5 its ^ac (r 351.) by accidental conformation per- mitting the contents to touch, the corre- fpondent tefticle f. * Bubonocele—Tumor in inguine, ex annulo mufculi obliqui, ab ingreffo inteftino omentove, vel utroque conjundtlm. Vogelius. Bubonocele—Tumor herniofus, emergens per annulum vaforum fpermaticorum, fenfnn enarus, cuti concolor et indolens abfente Itrangulacione. Saga- rus. f Congenial rupture is that particular kind of hernia in which the portion of the inteftme or omei:-347 S U R G E R Y, Femora-l Rupture. Appellations. Merocele. Opodeocele. Hernia femoralis. Hernia cruralis. Crural rupture. Definition. 1379. Rupture (1346.) formed in the courfe of the crural veifels below Faupart’s ligament turn which occafions the tumor, inflead of being found alone in the hernial fac (as in common rupture), is found in contadl with the naked tefticle, the bag con- taining it being formed by the tunica vaginalis teftis. Pott. '1 he exiftence and true conftitution of congenial rupture, it would appear, are not a difcovery by Mr Pott. Mr Sharp had priorly adverted to this af- fection in the living adult; Dr Hunter had likcwife previoufly obferved it in a dead one ; Mr J. Hunter had already elucidated its character by diflection of a Rill-born child, and by drawings ; it had not efcapcd the attention of the illuflrious Count Haller. See Dr Hunter’s Medical Commentaries, and Mr Sharp’s Critical Inquiry. * Merocele—Tumor ab inteflino infra ligament turn Paupartii elapfo. Vogelius. X X 2I 348 ELEMENTS op Thyroid Rupture, Appellations. Hernia ovularis. Enterocele ovularis. Definition. 1380. Rupture (1346.) formed through the thyroid or oval hole of the bones of the bafon (pelvis) *. Ischiatic Rupture. Appellations. Ischiocele. Opodeocele—Tumor herniofus in fummo femme, ad latus genitalium, egrediens per fmuofitatem oflis ifchii fuperiorem, vails tranfmittendis dicatam ; in foe- minis prope alterum vulvae labium vifitur haec (Uto- pia ; reponibilis, cuti concolor, mollis, dum parvus tu^ mor vix obfervatur, fubin eil elalHcus. Sagarus. * Hernia ovularis—Tumor in fuprema et in- terna femoris regione, a prolapfu vifceris abdominalis per fuperiorem excifuram foraminis ovalis in pelvi. Plenck. Enterocele ovularis—Hernia intellinalis fo- ramina ovalis, in fuperiore et interna parte femipis, prope perinaeum. Yogelius.SURGERY. 349 ISCHJATOCELE. Hernia ischiatica. Hernia dorsalis. Definition. <: 1381. Rupture (1346.) formed through the hole by which the fciatic nerve is tranfmitted from the bafon (pelvis) to the leg t- f Ischiocele — Hernia emergens per incifuram offis facri, feu hiatum inter os facrnm et tuber olfis ifchii, decubitu prono reponibilis, raruin genus et fat adhuc obicurum. Sagarus. IschiaTocele— Tumor ab inteftino per hiatum intra ligamenta ifchiatica elapfo. Vogelius. Hernia ischiatica—Tumor juxta anum, qui a prolapfu omenti vel inteftini per hiatum, quern exci- fura ifchiatica et ligamenta facro ifchiatica formant. Plenck. Hernia dorsalis—A remarkable cafe of rup- ture thus named is defcribed by Lieutaud, and feems referable to this variety, as the contents feem to have efcaped above or between the correfpondent fncro- ifchiatic ligaments. See Hijloriac Anatom; co-mediCae, y»L ii. p. 337. V35° ELEMENTS or Perinatal Rupture. • /* jI 1 ;AI . L) ■ i * /i 5* 1. \ Appellations. Elytrocele. *A\‘. i5lv. \ iv Hernia perinaealis. Hernia vaginalis. Vaginal rupture. Definition. 1382. Rupture (1346.) formed in the vicinity and courfe of the end-gut (in- teftinum reddum), or pa{Tage of the womb (vagina uteri) f. -I' • * •* Ventral Rupture. 1 Appellations. Hernia ventralis. Hernia abdominalis. f Elytrocele—Hernia in vagina uteri eminens. Vogelius. Hernia vaginalis—Tumor in cavo vaginae lo- catus, a prolapfu abdominalis vifeeris in laxatam vagi, nae partem produchis. Plenck. Hernia perinaealis—Tumor in perinaeo,aprc- lapfu veficae urinariae natus. Plenck.SURGERY. 35* Definition» * : *' ■ '/ • *7 * • • » v i 1383. Rupture (1346.) feated on the abdominal furface, its contents not emer- ging through a natural ring or opening of the containing parts *. % . A Q - * *■/ » • . f \ % • 1384. After the enumeration of the va- rieties of rupture (1346.) d.fcriminated from lituation (1347.), it may not be im- proper to obferve, that a variety of organs may contribute to form any one of them, a circumftance from which fuch have been named mixed f. A quantity of fero- fity (1198.), or a degree of abdominal hydrokele (1221.) is fometimes conjoined with the folid parts in the conftitution of rupture (1346.). Strangulation of Rupture. Appellations. Hernia strangulata. # Hernia abdominalis—I umor in quacunqua abdominis regione litus, a prolapfu vifceris abdomina- lis natus. Plenck. t Hy dr enterocele} Hydrentero ■ ep iplcccle, 8cc.3S2 ELEMENTS of Hernia incarcerata. * INCARCERATIO HERN1AE. Strangulated ? T > RUPTURE. Incarcerated b Definition. 1385. A flriCture exifting at the hole through which rupture (1346.) isTormed, difturbing proportionally the flruCture {15.) and function of the protruded parts, and preventing repofition (1358.), otherwife practicable. 1386. The formidable accident ftrangu- lation (1385.), chiefly incidental to ab- dominal rupture, returnable and irreturn- -able (1353O5 may originate from a change either with refpect to the orifice or ob-' truded parts : The latter, perhaps, if not the only, is the moft frequent caufe of this extreme misfortune. Symptoms. 1387- The exiftence of herniary flran- gulation (1385.) is decifively marked, by the fudden accefhon of 1. Pain unufually acute, conflant, and augmented by preffure and motion :SURGERY* 353 2. Hardnefs, tenfion, and augmentation i t)f the hernial fwelling : 3. Suppreflion of the inteftinal dif- < charge (720.) always prefent, the gut (I375*) being included: 4. Vomiting (706.) and ficknefs at fto- mach; the matter ejected is often (terco- raceous: 5. Symptomatic fever (691.), marking inflammation (776.) having attacked the ftrangulated parts, too frequently to be ter- minated by mortification (788.) ; a fudden femiflion of pain and tenfion announce this event. 1388. Hernial ftrarigulation (1385.) is peculiarly dangerous, when the inteftino is intercepted; mortification (788.) of any portion of this indifpenfable bowel is very conftantly a fatal incident. A few fortu- nate individuals have efcaped from the jaws of death (26.) by the formation of an accidental amis, which fometimes has been furprifingly healed, the excrementitious matter afliiming its ufital route. Cure. 1389. Should the fpecified remedies fot efieding the redudion of rupture (1346.), VqL. 11, y y354 -ELEMENTS of properly and perfeveringly adminiftered, prove abortive, herniary ftrangulation (1385.) can only be defeated by a chirur- gic augmentation of the orifice * : A prac- tice, which plainly ought not to be too long poftponed, requiring the utmoft judgment and dexterity. 1390. Herniary ftrangulation (1385.) r£- <■ moved by furgery (96.), and the conftitu- ent part9, brought in view, feemingly. mor- - tified (788.), they ought not to be re- placed, becaufe no liable argument occurs againft waiting fome time, and, if morti- fication is really prefent, againft permit- ting the floughing (863.) to be previoufly completed. Detaining the gut after flough- ing, fo as to produce a temporary anus, may fave life (25.). 1391. Are not excifion, or ligature, or both, of mortified caul (omentum), prepa- ratory to inftantaneous replacement after keletomy, although fan&ioned by high authority f, if not dangerous and irra- tional, at leaft doubtful pieces of furgery ? * See Keletomy. •}• See Pott on Ruptures, § 6. See Warner’s Cafes, 31.355 SURGERY. 2. Descent. Appellations. Prolapsus. Procidentia. Proptoma. Chute. i Falling-down. Dejinition. 1392. A naked diflocation (1344.) of any of the loft parts of the animal body (23->* Diagnojlic. 1393. The diagnoftic (69.) of defeent * Prolapsus—Vifcusnudum,relaxatum,elongato- propendens ultra proprium locurn Linnaeus. Prolapsus—Partis cujufdam edopia nuda. Cul- LENUS. Prolapsus—In prolapfibus, pars fedeirt nmtans nuda eft, et fenfibus exploranda immediate Vcnit. Sauvagesius. Prolapsus—Procidentia ab hernia differt, eo quod ponat partem mollem, quae fecund urn naturam intus recondita eft, e fede fua ita dimotam, ut per hiatum aliquem, vel naturalem, vel vitio natum, nuda foras effyndatur. Gaubius. Y y 2356 ELEMENTS op (1392.), for the mod part, is obvious to infpection or touch ; in fome inftances, its exiftence is inferred from alteration of function of the difplaced organ, and of that of others in its vicinity, Caufes. 1394. In general, the caufes (55.)* of .defcent (1392.) are the fame, or analogous ; to thofe (1356,) of rupture (1346.). Cure. 1395, Eew the varieties of defcent (1392.) are productive of much danger; being a diflocation (1344.), its curative in-s i dications (99.) are neceffarily r. Reduction or repofition : 3. Retention. Varieties. # Exophthalmy. Appellations. Exophthalmia. Ophthalmoptosis, Exophthalmie. Chute de i/oeil, \SURGERY. 357 Definition. • 1 1396. Defcent (1392.) of the eye-ball *. * Exophthalmia—Bulbi oculi procidentia, aufta vel non mutata ienfibiliter nativa ipfius magnitudo.- Sauvagesius. Exophthalmia—Ettopia oculi. Sagarus. Species of Exophthalmia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Exophthalmia hydropica. Buphthnlnfia. Mauchart. 2. Exophthalmia cancrofa. St Tvcs. 3. Exophthalmia purulenta. Maitre Jan. 4. Exophthalmia a protuberantia. Ab exojhft introrbitali. Petit. Ah apojlemate introrbitali. Maitre Jan. Ab haemato-cyflide introrbitali. Ejufdem. A fcirrho gand. lachrymalis. Boerhav. Ab hydatidibus introrbitalibus. Petit. Ab adipis introrbitalis intumefcentia. St Yvea. A lupia introrbitali. Maitre Jan. A gummate introrbitali. Aiiruc. Exophthalmia paralytica. Maitre Jan. 6. Exophthalmia a conatibus. Ecpiefmus ex nifu parturitionis. iEginetae. Ecpiefmus ex certamine athletico. Aetii. 7. Exophthalmia a ftrangulatu. Ecpiefmus ex ftrangulatu. iEginetae. 8. Exophthalmia a chimofi. St Eves, 9. Exophthalmia a ftaphylomate. /35s EL EMENTS of Diagnoflic. 1397. Exophthalmy (1396.) betrays it- felf. Cure. 1398. Exophthalmy (1396.), whenfymp- tomatic (44.), cannot admit of cure (85.), except by a previous abolition of the pri- mary affedtion *. Blepharoptose. Appellations. Blepharoptosis. Ectropium. Entropiu&i. Lagophthalmus. Ptosis. Definition. 1399. Defcent (1392-) of an eye-lid f. * See Wilmer’s Cafes and Remarks in Surgery, p. 64. A ftrongly marked occurrence of exophthalmy fymptomatic of polype, is mentioned. f Blepharoptosis—Palpebrae utriufque vel al. tei^utrius elongatae, retraclae, introverfae vel extra- mfae eftopia. Sauvagesius.SURGERY. 359 I Cure. i 1400. Blepharoptofe (1399-) felf-evi- dent, like exophthalmy .(1396.), when fymptomatic (44.), its cure prefuppofes that of the idiopathic (43.) affedtion. Hypostaphyl. Appellations. Hypostaphyle. Staphyle seu uva. Craspedon. Columella bicornis. Aretaei. Uvula nimium producta. Heifter. Blepharoptosis—Palpebrae utriufque vel alter- utrius morbofa elongatio, retra&io, intra vel extra verfio, cum fymptomatis cinque e&opiae propriis. Sa- garus. Species of Blepharoptofis, according to Sauvag£s? are, 1. Blepharoptofis genuina. Blepharoptofis. Lnpfus palpebrae. Platner. Ptofis. Heifteri. Chute de la patipiere. Maitre Jan*- 2. Blepharoptofis lagophthalmus, Lagophthalmie. 3. Blepharoptofis europium.j6o ELEMENTS of Definition. 1401. Defcent (1392.) of the pap of the throat (uvula) *. Cure. 4 J402. Hypoftaphyl (1401.), when idio- pathic (43.), fometimes requires exci- fion ; when fymptomatic (44.), the pri- mary affedtion (28.) muft be extinguifh- ed previouily to the application of chirur- gic medicine (96.). Eraillement. > 4. Blepharoptofis eftropium. Erich'iaife avec inverlion des iarfes. * Hypostaphyle—Gurgulionis feu uvulae Iaxa- tae, inflammatae, ulceratae, attenuatae, bicornis pro- cidentia. Sauvagesjus. Species of Hypoftaphyle, according to Salvages, are, >' * j, Hypoftaphyle ab inflammatione. Inflammatio uvulae. Celfi. 2. Hypoftaphyle a laxitate. Prolapfus uvulae. Nenteri. ProduElio uvulae a pituita. Heifter. Oedema uvulae. Gorteri. Catarrh us uvulae. Ejufdem. Cafus uvulae j Dionis. Propendent'ia uvulae paralyticae. Gorteri. Chute de la lucttc.SURGERY, 361 Paragloss. Appellations: Paraglosse. Linguae inflatio. Galeni. Linguae retractio.. Sortie d'e la langue. Definition. 1403. Defcent (1396.) of the tongue *. * Paraglosse—Linguae rnotu deglutitorio in fau- ces revolutae, vel ere extrufae, exundantis, exertae icftopia. Sauvagesius. Species of ParaglofTe, according to Sauvages, are, 1. ParaglofTe deglutitoria. Linguae veratae refolutio in fauces. Petit. G/ofocele feu hernia linguae. Gaubii. 2. ParaglofTe glofTomegifhis. Intumefcentia linguae nitnia. Galeni. y, ParaglofTe exertoria. Linguae exertio. Gorter. Linguae extrufio. Gaubii. Sortie cle la langue. 4. ParaglofTe retra&oria. I-lortpr Vot. II. Z z36t ELEMENTS op Cure. 1404- No fpeciality is indicated in the Cure of paraglofs (1403.). Womb-Descent. * Appellations. Hysteroptosis. Prolapsus uteri. Hysterocele nuda. Procidentia uteri, COLPOPTOSIS. Definition. 1405. Defcent (1396.) of the womb (uterus), or of its paffage (vagina uteri)*, * Hysteroptosis—Uteri vel vaginae prociden- tia. Sauvagesius. Hysteroptosis—’"teri vel vaginae protidentia, protuberantiam intra vel extra vaginam faciens. Vo- GELIUS. Hysteroptosis.—Uteri procidentia, tumorem fi- flens in vagina, vel quandoque extra genitalia penden- tem, undique liberum, nienfes ftillantem, faltem initio reponibilem, cum doloribus hypogaftrii, inguinum, urinae difficultate, animi deliquiisj haec omnia tadtus sbftetricius definit. Sagarus.SURGERY. 365 Varieties. 1406. The uterine fyftem, particularly ! the womb itfelf, from peculiar ftruclure, ntuation, and fundlion, is varioully liable to fuffer herniary (1346.) and prociden- tial (1392.) difplacement. 1. Not Pregnant. Diagnoftic. 1407. Defcent of the womb (1405.) not impregnated (247.) is a frequent form CoLPOPTosrs—Tumor in finu muUebri vel extra pendens, annularis, mollis, perforatUs (prolabitur fub- inde una tantum ruga vaginae), per quod foramen di- gitus immifl'us altius orifkimn uteri, uterumque in fua quafi fede abfque colpocele deprehendit ; reponibilis: torquet infuper aegram dyfuria, teneGnus. Sagarus. Species of Hyfteroptofis, according to Sauvagss, are, x. Hyfteroptofis. Uteri prolapfus. Lnpfus uteri. Chute tie la matrice. 2. Hyfteroptofis uteri inverfio. Renverfement tie la matrice. 3. Hyfteroptofis vaginae prolapfus,. Z Z 2364 ELEMENTS o? of difeafe, to which conftitutional or morbid laxity of ftrudture predifpofes. It prevails in various degree, lometimes evident and pendulous, at other times fcarcely emerging from the palfage (va- gina- uteri), which fuffers necelfarily a pro- portional procidentia! change (1392.). Cure. 1408: By adequate preffure, gently aug- mented as refiftance may didlate, while the patient is in the reclining attitude, repohtion (1357.) is effected with facility. Support afforded by fuited deligation, of which fmooth fubftances, varioully fhaped, introduced within the paffage (vagina ute- ri), named peffaries are neceffary confti- tuent parts, affords retention^ (1357.) to be- perfeveringly employed. Inversion of the womb. Appellatiou. Inversio uteri. Vaginae lapfus, rchxatio. Chute dc la vagin. 4. Hyfteroptofis compofita.3% surgery. Definition. 1409. Defeent of the womb (1405.) ac- ceding immediately after parturition, the entire organ appearing pendulous from the external orifice (os uteri externum), its ca- vity obliterated, attended with much hae- morrhage (137.). Diagnoflic. 1410. The affedtion defined (1409.),com- monly called inverfion of the womb, com- monly induced by unfcientific and prema- ture exertion to extradf the after-birth (pla- centa), as yet adhering, is felf-evideiTt: the haemorrhage (137.) is neceffarily extreme, and generally fatal. Cure. 1411. All circumftances of inveriion of the womb (1409.) confpire in the molt ur- gent manner to dictate immediate repofi- tion(i357-), to favour contraction, and to fupprefs the haemorrhage (137.)* to be effected by the force of die hand propor- tionally exerted in a proper direction. Re- tendon is not likely to be difficult *. * In one cafe, after the attempts of Dr - :—ELEMENTS of 366 2. F'regnant. ■ 0 • ~-nr ' •' ■ • ■ *. -. t r.' - Retroversion of the womb. Appellation. Retroversio uteri. Definition. 1412. Defcent of the womb (1405.) ac- ceding during an early period of pregnan- cy (247.), its bottom (fundus) retroverted varioufly into the concavity of the facred bone (os facrum), producing impadtion in the bafon (pelvis), and interruption of the function of the adjacent organs. Diagnojlic. 1413. Retroverfion of the womb (1412.), indifputably a variety of defcent (1405.), is a more frequent occurrence than had been fuppofed : much deftruction, it is juftly to be feared, has been the confe- quence of its diagnoftic (69.) being un- known or overlooked. The principal fymp- toms marking its exiftence are* had been unavailing, I effected repetition of the in- verted womb Unfortunately the haemorrhage had already raged to a fatal rate. I ftdl preferve the parts.SURGERY. 367 1. Painful fenfarion about the uterine region, conftant and occurring during che third or fourth months of pregnancy (247O: 2. Vomiting (706.) and ficknefs : 3. Mechanical urokele (1282.), ariling from compredion ; this is fometimes pro- digious *: 4. Suppreflion of (tools (720.), attended with draining (494.): 5. Tumefaction (772-) of the perineal parts : 6. ImpaCtion and altered pofture, or the difeafe itfelf, perceptible to the touch through the palfage of the womb (vagina uteri), or the end-gut (inteftinum reCtum). 7. Symptomatic fever (691.) f. * See WlLMKR’s Cafts end Remarks in Surgery, p. 144. A cafe is there recorded of retroveried womb, the diagnoftic fatally overlooked ; the urokele enormous, and totally mifmanaged. f See Medical Observations and Inquiries, voj. iii. and iv. which contain mafterly obfervations by Drs Hunter and Gartiishore. In refpedt to the important buftnefs of afeertaining the character of retroverted womb, often a diforder doubly fatal, as well as to many others full of utility, fociety is much indebted to the penetration and atten- tion of Dr Hunter, He feems to have the honour368 ELEMENTS of Cure. 1414. The evacuation of the contents •of the bladder of urine and gut is a pre- paratory ftep of obvious neceffity to the repofition (1357-) retroverted womb (1412.), which ought to be attempted, as foon as the diagnoftic (69.) is eftablifhed, by the fingers introduced tenderly into the paflage (vagina uteri) and gut (intefti- num redtum), while the patient fupports herfelf upon her knees and elbows. Much affiftance to move the womb might be per- haps derived from inftruments of proper ponftrudlion. / 1415. Should repofition of retroverted womb (1412.), attempted by the fpecified plan (1414.), be unfuccefsful on account of volume, one of two expedients may be adopted to fave the life of the mother or the child, or both : 1. Augmenting the capacity of the ba- fon (pelvis) at its brim. 2. Diminifhing the volume of the womb. to be the flrffc who (in this country at lead) has fully explained this affeftipn, which 1 have prefumed to as. rancre as a variety of womb-defeent.SURGERY; .09 1416. The capacity of the bafon at its \ lbrim (1415.) can only acquire augmenta- | ttion by fedtion of the fubltance uniting (tthe {hare-bones (fymphyfis ofiium pu- j Ibis) *, an expedient calculated to fave child ;and mother, and is always likely to be <]profperoiis 1417. The volume of the womb (1415.) iis diminilhed by emitting the waters (li- iquor amnii), through its internal orifice, ;and when this is inaccefiible by chiyur- ; gic perforation J, an expedient fatal to the child, and not a little hazardous to the mother. 1418. Retention of the womb, happily reftored from the retroverted ^condition (1412.), is confulted by, * See Extraction^ f Dr Purcell, Ledturer of Anatomy in the Uni- verfity of Dublin, is the ingenious propofef of aug^ menting the capacity of the bafon as explained ; .1 practice which Dr Hunter had found neceflary to repofition in the dead body, and which it is i'urprifing he had not adverted to as a remedy during life, its prac- ticability and fafety having been previouQy afcertained, X See Incision. Vol. II. 3 AI 370 EL E M EN TS of 1. Reft: 2. Pofture: The more difficult the effecting of the repofttion, the more eafy the attainment of retention. Hysteroloxy. Appellations. Hysteroloxia. Obliquitas uteri. Definition. 1419. Defcent of the womb (1405.) or obliquity, acceding during advanced pregnancy (247.), and impeding, as fome have fuppofed, parturition *. * Hysteroloxia—Uteri faepius gravidi et ab- dominis, claullris contend, fitus in obliquum errans. Sauvagesius. Hysteroloxia—Uteri gravidi vel non gravidi in nbd’omine fitus feu diredtio aberrans a directione natu- jrali axeos fuae, nol'cenda ex orificii uterini diredtione inutata, palpo externo abdominis, turn aliis fymptoma- tis inconluetis; ut ifchuria, dyfuria, enurefi, obfiipa- tione, &e. Sagarus.SURGERY. 37* \ Exa"ny. Appellations. Exania. Prolapsus ani. Chute du fondement. Falling down of the body. Definition. 1420. Defeent (1396.) of a portion of ihe inferior extremity of the inteftine, fo as to become vifible *. Species of Hyfteroloxia, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Hyfteroloxia anterior. Uterus antrorfum inclinatus. Uterus in partem anteriorem obliquus. Inclinatio uteri. Auftor. Venter propendulus. Latinor. 3. Hyfteroloxia pofterior. Uterus retroverfuni inclinatus. Uteri reclinatio• Auclor. 3. Hyfteroloxia lateralis. Uterus in latera obliquus. Roeder. 4. Hyfteroloxia citra graviditatem. Lateralis uteri non gravidi inclinatio feu obliqiti- tas. Ruyfch. * Exania—Sphincfteris ani etinteftini refti inver- fi procidentia. Sauvagesius. 3 A 2 *ELEMENTS of 37* Cure. 1421. Exany, (1396.) like rupture(1346), may fuffer ftrangulation (1388.), efpecially in the fanguine and robuft. It is general- ly produced by ftrong expulfive efforts, the effedt of various irritation (12Q.). Speedy repofition (1357.) is proper. The remo- val of'caufes (56.), combined with the ef- Exania—Sphin&eris ani, vel et inteftini refti in- verfi procidentia, extuberans, rubra, reducibilis fem* per extra ltrangulationem. Sagarus. Species of Exania, according tp Salvages, are, 1. Exania pritnaria. * 2. Exania ex alvifluxu, 3. Exania a calculo. 4. Exania a dyflocia. Exania paralytica. 6. Exania traumatica, A girl of eight or ten years had fuffered unreduced exany about three years : The protruded portion, become confiderably altered in appearance and thick- nefs, was fully fix inches long : i he feces were occa- fionally voided from its extremity. Various attempts and applications had been made in vain to reduce it before I faw her. With force cautioufly and gra- dually applied in a proper direction I completely efi, fefted its repolition. No retentive artifice feemed neceffary. Now after two years Hie is in perfeft health, having had no relapfe.SURGERY. 373 fed of horizontal pofture, are expedients the raoft likely to fecure retention (1357.) Intussusception. Appellations. Ileus. Volvulus. Convolvulus. Iliaca passio. Miserere. Passion iliaque. Iliac passion. Twisting of the gut. Definition. 1422. Defcent (1396.) of a portion of inteftine, fo as to be received within that immediately contiguous, adjoining and in- ferior *. * Ilf.us—Atrox circa epigaftrium dolor feu gaftro- dynia, alvi conftipatio, et faeculentae demum materiae vomitio. Sauvagesius. t , Ileus—Colica acuta, cum vqmitu demum excre- mentorum. Vogelius. Ileus—Gaftrodynia, obftipatio, anxietas, et vorri- tus demum faeculentae materiae, determinant hunc374 ELEMENTS of Diagnojlic. 1423. It is exceedingly difficult to di~ ftinguifh intufTufception (1422.), truly a » morbuin ; atrocia circa umbilicum tormina, ruclus, naufea, fingultus, iuteftinorum volutatio, virium pro- ftratio, pertinax alvi obdipatio, et vomitus demum faeculentus, funt fymptomata principals hujus morbi. Sagarus. Ileus—Colica. Cullenus. 4 4 Iliac A—Vomitus cum obftipatione fixa et colica. u NNAEUS. Species of Ileus, according to Sauvages, are, 1. ileus inflammatorius. Chordapfus. Bonet. Colica ifijlanimatoria. Brondel. 2. Tleus a faecibus induratis. Sennert. Ileus a cydoncato obturente. Fernel. 3. Ileus fpafmodicus. Ileus ab humorum anarrhopia. Sennert. 4. Ileus ab inteftino comprdTo. Bonet. 5. Ileus a colo pituita infarfto. Ejufdem. 6. Ileus herniofus. 7. Ileus volvulus. Bonet. 8. Ileus Indicus. Hoffman. 9. Ileus phyfodes. Bel fined. Tormentum. Aurelian. 10. Ileus calculofus. . Chaptal. 11. Ileus a callofa coli ftriftura. Gauteren. j2. Ileus imperforatorurn. Iliac a a reSJi hitcf ini coalitu. Bonet.1 SURGERY. 375 procidential (1392.) and not a rare affedtion (28.), from colic (756.) and gut-inflam- mation (937.)? efpecially at its commence- ment *. • They all nearly in die fame man- ner difturb the fundtion of the alimentary canal. Cure. 1 1424. Suppofe the exiftence of intuf- fufception (1422.) detected, is repofition to be expedted from 1. The fwallowing of ponderous fub- ftances, leaden bullets, quickfilver, &c ? 2. The adminiflration of any fubflance in the form of clyfter (933.), particular- ly of water in fuch quantity as to adt me- chanically ? 3. Chirurgic operation (96.) f attempt- ing repofition (1357.), or the formation of a temporary anus ? 1425. Does not paraphymofis (1084.) be- long to defcent (1396.) ? 13. Ileus verminofus. Iliac a pajjio a vermibus. Gordon. 14. Ileus a veneno. * See EJJhys Phyftcal ami Literary, vol. I. t See Enterotomy.ELEMENTS op 376 ✓ 3. Luxation. « Appellations. Luxatio. Exarthrema. . Diastasis. Subluxatio. Luxatura. OsSIUM RECESSUS. Definition. 1426. Diflocation (1344.) of a bone ^ # Luxatio — Geniculi folutio citra fubftantiae diflolutionem. Linnaeus. Luxatio—Dimotio oflis ex articulo fuo perfefta. Vogelius. Luxatio—Os ex fua fede in jun&uris dimotum. CULLENUS. Luxatio—Luxatio dicitur, cum offa, qua inter fe commifla funt, de fede fua naturali decedunt. Gau- bius. LuxatiO—Luxationem five diflocationem aliquam contigiffe dicitur, quotiefcunque os aliquod fede fua five junftura naturali fic niotnin fuit, ut ejufdem fun- (5lio five ufus inipeditus reperiatur. Heisterus. Luxatio—Diflocation deboetement, deplacement des os de L’endroit ou ils font articule's. Villa rs.SURGERY. 377 Di/linElion. 1427. The various pieces of the offeous fyftem are connected moveably or im- Exarthrema—Sepdfatio contigui in oilium arti- culis, non vero immobiliter combinatis. Sauvagesius. Exarthrema—Separatio contigui in odium arti- culis per diarthrofin combinatorum, pofcenda ex impo- tentia ad motum, mutationc nativae conformationis, dolore, protuberantia infolita, cavitate, mufculorum tenfione, converiione artus, accurtatione membri vel prolongatione. Sagarus. Diastasis—OITium, cartilaginiim immobiliter com- binatorum, feparatio, feu receflus ab invicem partialis Vel totalis. SAUVAGF.SIUS. Diastasis—Oilium receflus junftorum per ra- phen, harmoniam fynchendrofin, ant fyndefmofin, cognofcibilis cavitate infolita uno in loco,- in altero vero tumore, mutatione pofiturae, et reliqtiis fympto- matis oculo et ta&ui patentibus. Sagarus. Species of Exarthrema, according to Sauvages, are, I. A caufa externa. 1. Exarthrema fimplex. Lux atio fimplex completa. 2. Exarthrema fubluxatio fimplex. Exarthrema incompletaJbnplex. 3. Exarthrema diftorfio. Exarthrema incompletum injlantaneum a vi ex- terna. Vol. II. 3 B378 ELEMENTS of moveably. The following remarks chief- ly apply to luxation (1426.) of moveable II. A cat if a interna. 4. Exarthrema a convulfione. 5. Exarthrema a paralyfi. 6. Exarthrema a defmochaunofi. Luxatio a fcrofa ligamentorum laxitate. 7. Exarthrema a defmophlogia. Luxatio a phlogodea ligamentorum infumefcentia, Duverney. 8. Exarthrema paftaceum. Luxatio a fynoviae lentefcentis copia. 9. Exarthrema tophaceum. Luxatio a fynoviae concretione. jo. Exarthrema exoftofnim. Luxatio a capitum ojjis et acetabulorum intume- fcentia. Petit. Species of Diaftafis, according to Sauvages, are, I. A cat fa externa. 1. Diaftafis violenta. * II. A caufa inteuia. 2. Diaftafis raphica. Recefus futurarum cranii. ' 3. Diaftafis harmonica. Diafafs offium nafi. Levret. 4. Diaftafis fynofteo-chondrica. Diajlafis cartilaginis natrium. Ejufdem. 5. Diaftafis epiphyfica. Diafafs epiphyfum. Duverney. 6. Diaftafis fynchendrofica. Diafafs fyncheudrofegn. Hildani.SURGERY. 379 or articulated bones, and efpecially of thofe of the limbs. Diagnojiic. 1428. Luxation (1426.), which accedes in proportion to the quantity of motion a bone pofleffes, which is .as form and length of ligament, is difeovered by 1. Pain varioufly acute : 2. Alteration of form : 3. Diminution of motion ; 4. Swelling (772.). Caufcs. 1429. Violence alone can be the caufe (56.) of idiopathic (43.) luxation (1426.), which fuppofes a deflrudlion of ligament* more or lefs extenlive and fudden. \ Cure. 1430. The difplaced (1426.) extremity of a bone by degrees forms a connection with the parts to which it has become con- tiguous by concretion in various ways, the effe£t of the plaftic power (73.), which makes no exertion to replace the * See Medical Ob/ervations and Inquiries, vol. i. P* 3 B ^ELEMENTS of 3So organ. This may be named natural cure, and is neceffarily followed with im- perfection of form and function. 1431. Chirurgic medicine (96.) is in- ch fpenfibly neceffary to the complete cure of luxation (1426.), which is attained by 1. Reduction or repofition : 2. Retention. 1432. That repof tion (1431.) of a luxa- ted bone may be effected, tractive efforts or extenfion, in general, muft be premifed to overcome the mufcular power, which often urges the bone upwards, fo as to fhorten the limb. 1433. ^ie extending power applied to the luxated bone (1426.), and not to more diftant parts, while the member is in a Rate of femiflexion, or greateft relaxation, is varied in degree and direction accord- ing to the ftrength of the patient, the du- ration, and other circumftances of the affeCtion./ SURGERY. 381 1434. Extenfion attempted previoufly to the accedion of fwelling (772.), and con- cretion (1430.), is moft likely to be fucceff- ful, and fubfervient to repofition (1431.) of a luxated, bone. 1435. It may often be neceflfary to aug- ment the exertion of the furgeon (96.) and his affiftants by the mechanical pow- ers the lever and the pully, and to apply them fo as to occafionally elevate and fufpend the patient by repeated and fud- den jerks *. 1436. Extenfion (1432.) duly perform- ed, the luxated bone refumes its health- * The famous Ambe of Hippocrates is a lever fup- ported by a peculiar fulcrum : This inftrument has been varioufly improved by M. Freck, &c. I have combined the ambe conftrufted upon the belt principle, and an axis in peritrochio, fo as to be capable to produce the moft regular forceful exten- fion, and, when requilite, the elevating jerk, with- out the afliltance of any other apparatus. After a luxation had endured thirteen weeks, and the patient had been fubje&ed to a great variety of furgery, particularly had been repeatedly hoifted, I performed repofition of the arm-bone (os humeri) by the aid of what I call the foot-lever} in uling which the furgeon needs no afliftance.3^2, ELEMENTS OF ful fituation, often audibly, a circumftance ealily afcertained by a fudden reftoration of form, and proportional return of func- tion. Retention. 1437. Retention of replaced bone (1426.) till the violated parts are healed, is eafily attained by fuited 1. Deligation : 2. Pofture. 1438. Symptomatic (44.) lu xation (14 2 6) admits not of the aid of chirurgic medi- cine (96.) till the idiopathic affection (43.) is removed. \» SURGERY. 383 III. DIVISION. Appellations. Dialysis. VlTIUM DIALYT1CUM. SOLUTIO. Dissolutio. SOLUTIO CONTINUI. Definition. 1439. A divifion or deftru&ion of the animal folid *. Dijlinclion. 1440. Divifion (1439.), a modification of difeafe (771.), of necefhty a frequent occurrence, according to the nature of the parts it affeft s, and other circumflan- ces, admits of being diflinguifhed under the form of 1. Wound: 2. Fracture: 3. Ulcer. * Dialysis—Solurio continui vifu tactuve ipam- fefta. Cullenus.elements of 34 i. Wound.' Appellations. Vulnus. Plaga. Morbus traumaticus* Ruptura. Blessure. Playe. Definition. 1441. Divifion (i439.),> recent, and generally bloody, of the foft parts (1301.) of the animal body (23.) *. * Vulnus—Salutio mechanica in carnibns, cum labrorum hiatu, initio cruenta, dein ad inflammatio- nem fuppurationemque tendens. Sauvagesius. Vulnus—Subftantiae diflolutio partis mollis, hians, cruenta. Linnaeus. Vulnus—Solutio partis folidae mollis, a caufa me- chanica, cum effluxu fanguinis. Vogelius. Vulnus—Vulnera funt, ubi partes folidas, non duras, aliquid ita laelit, ut ex vafis exeat fanguis, vel alius fuccus. Platnerus. Vulnus—Vulnus, quod notat continui folutionerft in parte folida, non dura, recentem, a vi mechanica ita faftam, ut fanguis aliufve fuccus e vafis prodeat, Gaubius.SURGERY. 384 Vol. II. 3 C Diagnojiic. 1442. The exiftence of wound (1441.) is in general eaflly afcertained; but the dete&ion of its courfe and penetration is a buflnefs mote intricate, and demands, for the molt obvious caufes, every poflible at- tention. Cicatrization. 1443. The infliction of wound (1441.) is almoft neceffarily productive of haemor- hage (137.), which fpontaneoufly ceafes, provided none of the larger veffels have been inj nred; adheflve inflammation (778.) fucceeds, and for the moft part becomes fuppurative (785.): The quantity of pus (784.) is gradually diminilhed with the extent of the diviflon (1439.), and at ^a^ converted into a cruft, which foon falling off, leaves a veftige of the former affeCtion, named fear (cicatrix). Stages of Healing. 1444. It is evident that the deferibed Species of Vulnus, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Vulnus (implex. 2. Vulnus fclopetorum. 3. Vulnus virulentum.3 96 ELEMENTS o j tranfition (1443). of wounded parts (1441.) to integrity and found nefs, which often is . manifefted to a moll aftonifhing degree* being Ipontaneous, is the foie operation of the plaftic power (73.), may be confidered as divided' into two ftages as to artificial treatment: 1. Haemorrhagic : 2. Inflammatory- Prognojlic. 1445. A prognoftic (71.) with refpeCl to wound (1441.) is founded chiefly on 1. Extent: 2. Mode: . 3. Situation: 4. Habit of the patient: 5. Experience. Cure. 1446. It has been remarked already, that the healing- of wound (1441.) is effect- ed by the exertion of the plaftic principle (73.),, t° which, of courfe, chirurgic (96.) and pharmaceutic (95.) interference ought always to be fubfervient. Cure of Wound diir'mg its Haemorrhage. 1447. Vulnerary haemorrhage (1443’*) isSURGERY. '387 * See Deligation. rpaflive (148.), and therefore, when immo- derate, requires to be fupprefled by, j. Deligation *: Comprejfion : S ature: 2. Styptics (121.}. 3. Fife, or actual cautery (127.). 1448. Deligation (1447.), properly con- ducted, will, in general, be fully fuppref- five of traumatic haemorrhage (1443.), and luperfede the application of its other fpe- cified remedies (1447.), which is very deftrudtive and painful. Cure of Wound during its Infammation and 1449. Haemorrhage (137.), which is al- ways a prime confideration in the treat- ment of wound (1441.), being happily fupprelfed, the chief curative fteps (99.) are, 1. Abftraftion of impacted matter: 2. Repoiition and retention: 3 C 2 healing388 ELEMENTS of 3. Regulation of its inflammation l1443): 4. Protection. I. AbJiraElon of impacted Matter, 1450. Foreign fubftances moft common- ly impacted in wound (1441.) have been enumerated (796.) ; their abftraCtion is inconteftably a proper meafure, unfortu- nately, not always, a practicable one. It is therefore to be cautioufly and fcientifically attempted by the fingers, inftruments, in- cifion, injeCtion, &c. as circumftances dic- tate *. Attention to the pofture the patient maintained at the moment of receiving the wound will contribute much to this pur- pofe. 2. Rep ft ion and Retention. 1451. Repofing divided parts (1441.), fo as to facilitate concretion and favour ci- catrization (1443.), is clearly requifite, and in general eafily effeCled. 1452. Retaining wounded parts (1441.) *■ See Extraction.f See Deligation. . * / SURGERY. 389 in a proper fituation, till union accede *, frequently a difficult talk, is attempted by, 1. Deligation f : 2. Pofture. 3. Regulation of Inflammation. 1453. What is ftridlly called wound (1441), may be regarded as an occaftonal caufe (791.)of inflammation (776.), which, during the fecond Page, (1444.), is the foie obje<5i of the furgeon’s attention. 1454. Traumatic inflammation (1443.) is liable to its fpecified terminations (781.): rarely does difcuffion, peculiarly named healing by the firft intention (782.), take place. Suppuration (785.), the moft com- mon one, feldom affumes the form of im- pofthume (786.) : It is named digeflion: The pus (784.) is gradually formed and cjetfled. * With pleafurable furprife furgeons have often beheld the re-union of parts properly replaced and retained, that had nearly fuffered a complete deftruc- tion of their living connection with the body ; a fatt which ought to lay an ufeful reftraint upon the too ready knife.390 ELEMENTS of *455* refpedts inflammation (776.) refulting from wound (1441.) demands the fame remedies (815.) as if it had been excited by any other caufe (791.). 1456. General antiphlogiftic remedies (822.) are indicated during the inflamma- tory ftage of wound (1443.), in the rate of the fymptomatic fever (691.). Anodynes (119.) may have fpecial falutary influence, as tending diredtly to elude the irritation of divifion, its occafional caufe (1445.). 1457. Topical antiphlogiftic remedies (826.) are always proportionally requilite a- gainft traumatic inflammation (1443.),par- ticularly poultice (827.), which is peculi- arly folacing and agreeable. 1458. When digeftion (1454.) of wound (1441.) is eftablilhed, a free vent to the pus (785.) is anxioufly to be confulted, left it undergo hurtful changes, and difturb the healing (1443.). 4. Protection. z459* After traumatic inflammationSURGERY. 39} I (144-3.) is fubfided, and the healing procefo peculiarly in wound (1441.), with lofs of fubftance, named incarnation, commen- ced, the ufe of poultice may be fuperfeded by that of foft abforbent matters * fup- ported by the gentleft deligation f, that,, the exquifitely fenhble, and inconceivably delicate reuniting and regenerating part3 may remain perfectly tranquil and pro- tected. 146a. The purpofe of impofing foft abforbent matters (1459.) upon wound. (1441.) confidered, as well as the condition of the parts they cover, fully evince the * Linteum carptum vel rasum, Charpie, Scraped Lint, feems to be the leaft exceptionable covering for wound, pofleffing in a donfiderable degree the requifite qualities, and is now very generally em- ployed. The heterogeneous prefcriptions, the con- ceits of ignorance, with which books of furgery. abound, whether in the form of ointment, linimentr tinRure, baljam, &c. and which have been fpecioufiy named vulneraries, traumatics, digeJHves, incarnativesy cicatrizers, &c. have done infinite mifchief to man- kind, and have too long unexploded remained the opprobrium of fcience. Who compounds vulneraries for the wounded ferae naturae ? t See Deligation.392 ELEMENTS of abfurdity of too frequent removal, a prac- tice not lefs pernicious than common Proud Flesh. Appellations. Fungus. Hypersarcosis. Definition. 1461. Incarnation (1458.) become lulu* riant f. 1462. Proud flefh (1461.) has particu- larly been prevalent in wound (1441.) of the brain. It feldom appears under judi- cious treatment, a fadt that creates a fu- fpicion, that its former frequency has been the effects of ftimulant and impro- per application. It, for the mod part, fpontaneoufly difappears. Its progrefs * Suppofe it to be the furgeon’s intention to pro- tract the cicatrizing procefs in wound, what more effectual expedients could he devife than daily expo- lure, waihincr, and friCtion ? f Fungus—Caro vulgo fpuria, ulceribus laxisr hu- midis innata. Sagarus. 4SURGERY. 393 may be curbed, or it may be radically deftroyed by 1. PrefTure : 2. Cauftics (127.): 3. ExcifiOn by the knife or ligature (1309.). Modifications. 1463. Wound (1441.) is fufceptible of modifications, as well from form as other circumftances. Amputative Wound. Appellations. Amputatura. Amputatio casualis. Wound with loss of substance. « Definition. 1464. Wound (1441.) produced by the excifion of any part or member *. • - • t * * Amputatura — Solutio continui in partibus tunrf rnollibus, tuni oITeis, cum artus, articuli, vel partis to- tali feparatione a refiduo trunco. Sauvagesius. Vol. II. 3 DELEMENTS of 394 Cure. 1465. Amputative wound (1464.) re- quires no fpeciality of cure, except the removal of any portion or inequality that may impede future utility or retard cica- trization (1443.). Lacerated Wound, Appellations. Laceratura. Laceration. Rupture. Dejinition. 1466. Wound (1441.), accompanied by tearing and diftradtion of the foft parts *. I i 4. k.. v. w- i* - •* ' Diagnojlic. 1467.. The exiflence of lacerated wound (1466.) is afcertained by infpedtion, and by attention to the wounding body. AmputaTura—Vulnns detrnncatione partis tota- lis factum. Linnaeus. * Laceratura Vulnus fibrarutn cutifque Ia- ceratione fattum. Linnaeus.- t »• 1 • .. • f • r* » At • t • 3Q5 » * SURGERY. V. Cure. 1468. Inflammation (776.) peculiarly : intenle, and likely to end in mortification, is incidental to lacerated wound (1466.), juftly therefore to be fupprefled by a pro- portioned ufe of antiphlogiftics (815.). In mobile conftitutions, efpecially in the warm latitudes, dangerous tonic convul- flon (735.), often in the form of locked jaw (741.) fupervenes, unlefs prevented by a full ufe of 1. Anodynes (119.) : 2. Cold bath : 3. Amputation or converflon into Ample wound. ■ ————■OBTB— 1 - Contused Wound. Appellations. CoNTUSURA. Contusion. Bruise. * See Amputation. 3 D 2396 ELEMENTS op Definition. 1469. Wound (1441.), accompanied with contufed deftru&ion of the fibres *. Cur^. 1470. Contufion (1469.) is clearly con- nected to laceration (1466.) in its effence ana cure. Penetrating Wound, Appellations, PuNCTURA. Pi QU EURE. Puncture. * Contusura—Textus carnofi, pofiffimum infra cutem, ruptio, per minima pun&a, et vaforum contri- tio, ecchymoma faepius inferens. Sauvagesius. Cqntusura—Cutis niufculorumque conquaffatio dolorifica, plerumque cum ecchymomate, ac citra vul- nus aut fubftantiae mamfeftam deperditionem. Vo- GELIUS. Contusura—rFibrarum fpiutio, citra fubftan^iae dilTolutionem. Linnaeus. Contusio—Partis cujufcunque mollis vel folidae, in minimis vafeulis, fibris, attritio, fractio, folutio, Sa- garus.SURGERY. 397 Definition. 1471. Wound (1441.), whofe greateft exteniion is inwards *. 1472. A degree of contufion (1469.) is likely to be formed in penetrating wound (1471.), inflicted by a blunt furface, which often’ produces proportional mor- tification (788.) and a flough (862.). Cure. 1473. Penetrating wound (1471.) fcarce- ly requires any fpeciality of cure, unlefs its entering the cavity of the head, of the cheft, or of the belly, and its particular form favouring congeflion of the extra- * Punctura—Continui folutio' intus tantnni ex- tenfa. Sauvagesius. j .* I Punctura—Vul.nus tendinis pundione fadutn. Linnaeus. , . , - - - • -» i i f i Jxl Punctura — Continui folutio intus tan turn exten- fa, eaque inftrumento pungente fada. Sagarus. • <■ t Species of Pundura, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Pundura fimplex. 2 Pundura a cufpide frada. 3. Pundura venenata.39$ ELEMENTS of or vafated fluids, may make dilatation enlarging particularly neceflary. Gun-shot Wound. Appellations. SCLOPETOPLAGA. VULNUS SCLOPETORUM, Coup d’arme a feu. Gun-shot wound. Ball-wound. Definition. 1474. Penetrating wound (1471.) in- flidled by ball *. Cure. 1475. Gun-fliot wound (1474-) demands treatment fimilar to that fpecified as pro- per to promote the cure of wound in ge- neral (1441.), and of penetrating wound (1471.) in particular. No fpeciality re- fults from the explofive power impelling the ball, * Sclopetoplaga-—Vnlnus a glandibus e bom- bardis aut fclopetis explofis illatum, vaginatum, dccur* fum glandis exprimens, oblongum. Sagarus,SURGERY. 399 1476. The propriety of promifcuoufly dilating gun-fhot wound (1474.) by in- cifion or other means, fuch as the intro- duction of tent (turunda), of fkain (fetum). The firft, a practice very generally incul- cated *, and, it is to be feared, too gene- rally adopted, often wantonly fuperadds wound to wound. The others are in con- tradiction to the firft curative indication (813.)- Excoriated Wound. Appellations. Excoriatura. Excoriation. Definition. 1477. Wound (1441.) extended fupsr- ficially f. * See Ranby on Gim-fijot JVounils. t Excoriatura—Cuticulae vel cutis a carnibus fubjedis feparatio. Sauvagesius. Excoriatura—Cutis retnota a carnibus vivis. Linnaeus. Excoriatio—Epidermidis a cute, vel cutis a gar* nibus feparatio, detraftio. Sagarus.400 ELEMENTS of Envenomed Wound. Appellations. VULNUS VIRULENTUM. Poisoned wound. k k . L ' V Definition. 1478. Wound (1441.) into which poi- fon (virus) is introduced. \ '-is Cure. 1479. Canine, cancerous, and fome other lethiferous matters introduced into wound (1441.), render its inftantaneous ampu- tation or converfion. into fimple wound * to prevent incurable dififemination, a prac- tice highly expedient and manly, agreeably to the poetic fentiment, Sero mcdicina paratur, Cum mala per longas involucre moras. Amputation confidered as a Remedy of Wound. 1480. Amputation * confidered as a re- Species of Excoriatio, according to Sauvages, are, I. Excoriatio viva, a. Excoriatio phly&aenodes. * See Amputation.SURGERY. 401 3 E medy of wound (1441.) or the converfion. of lacerated contufed wound (1469.) into Ample wound (1441.) is never to be raihiy inftituted; becaufe, in circumftances feerti- ingly defperate, healing (1443,) hirpri! .g-* ly accedes : The extent of the power of he plaftic principle (73.) to regain integr y, although not unbounded, is much larger than that which prefuming furgery (96.) too often unhappily allots to it *. 1481. The healing (1443.) of wound (1441.) of every denomination, after in- flammation (776.) is fufhciently abated, is more likely to be promoted by dietetic (94.) than by pharmaceutic (95.) me- dicine, not excepting the much extolled Peruvian bark (66p.) j\ * See M Bilguer’s Works. + Bark, a medicine which no human eloquence can deck with panegyric proportionable to its virtues, of luch incomparable benefit is it to mankind. Ranj^y on Gnn-fhot Wounds, p. 36. • VOL. II.4° 2 ELEMENTS op 2. Fracture. Appellations. Fractura. VuLNUS OSSIS. Broken bone. Definition. 1482. DivijGon (1439.) of a bone into two or more pieces *. * Fractura—Separatio violenta et mechanica oflis in fragmenta iqvicem non cohaerentia. Sauva* GESIUS. o Fractura—OlTis folutio citra fubftantiae folutio- nem. Linnaeus. Fractura-—DifTolutio oflis tranfverfa aut obliqua. V OGELIUS. Fractura—Oflis partes a cohaefione in inagna fragmenta vi iolutae. Cullenus. Fractura—Fra&ura, folutio continui eft in parte dura, odea, cartilaginea, a caufis mechanicis fadla, Gaubius. Fractura—Solution de continuite, ou divifiou faite fubitement dans les os, ou les cartilages dures, par la violence de qnelque caufe externe. Villars. I Species of Frattura, according to Sauvages, are, j. Fra&ura fcindens. Fratture t rune haute.SURGERY. 403 DiJlinBions. 1483. Fra&ure (1482.), or wound (1441.) of a bone, conlidered as exifting in a long one, according to -direction, is 1. Tranfverfe : 2. Oblique: and, according to extent of injury, is 1. Simple : 2. Compound. Simple Fracture. Appellations. Fractura simplex. VULNUS OSSIS. T)efi?iition. 1484. Divilion (1439.) of a bone Drily, Compound Fracture. Appellations. Fractura compositA* •2. Fraftura atterens. Fraclure avec fracas. 3 Ea404 ELEMENTS of Fractura complicata. Complicated fracture. a . L ■ ‘ : :’j1 ■ 7. Zl * f . Definition. 1485. Divifion (1439.) of a bone, and apparent wound (1441.) of the furround- ing foft parts. 1486. It is manifeft, that, between the ftri&ly fimple (1484.) and compound frac- ture (1485.) there are many intermediate degrees of violation fultained by the foft parts. Diagiiojlic. 1487. Simple fraCture (1484.) is prin- cipally known (69.) by 1. Acute pain : 2. FriCtion or grating of the fragments, fometimes audible: 3. Lofs of function : 4. Alteration of form : 5. Tumefaction (772.}. 1488. Compound fraCture (1485.) is ! felf-evident, becaufe the fragments are to be feen or felt.Canfes. 1489. The occahonal caufe (60.) of idiopathic (43.) fradlure (1482.) is vio- lence, often fo confiderable as to require no co-operation from predifpofition (59.), which, as has been fuppofed, is moft preva- lent during old age and froft *. Prognojlic. 1490. A prognoftic (71.) refpedting fradture (1482.) is a calculation proceed- ing on a careful revifal of the 1. Number of fragments, when minute named fplinters : 2. Obliquity : 3. Situation, particularly as to a joint: 4. Condition of the foft parts : 5. Habit of the fufferer. Cure. 1491. The healing of fracture (1482.), like that of wound (1441.), the immediate effect of the plaftic principle (73.), is ac- * Tanto levioribus caufis fra&ura nafcitur, quo o(Ta ex fenio, acri gclu, lue venerea, fcorbuto, arthri- tide, rachitide, carie, above vino, fragiliora funt. Gaueii Patholog. § 217.0 I ( 406 ELEMENTS of complifhed without regard to form, be- caufe it aims almoft folely to maintain and reftore integrity. Callus. 1492. A fubftance named callus, inter- pofed between the fragments in various proportion, is the cement employed: about the fource of which a multiplicity of fen- timent has prevailed *. 1493. Chirurgic (96.) cure of fradlure (1482.) is abfolutely requifite to recover form, and confequently fun&ion of the affedted organs. It confifts in procuring 1. Reduction or repofition, named coap- tation, and vulgarly fetting : 2. Retention f. * See the Works of Haller, Du Hamel, and Camper. f The general doctrine relative to fradtures is con- tained under the following heads : Extenfon, Counter- extenfon, Co-aptation or Setting, Application of Medica- ments, Deligation or Bandage, Pofition, Prevention or Belief of Accidents. Pott on Fractures. Quadruplex datur in chirurgia fra&urarutu moment turn : primum in conveniente quieto loco conltituen- duseft aegrotus j extrema oflis fradti ad fe invicem ad-SURGERY. 407 ReduRion. 1494. To reduction (1493.), feldom dif- penfable as to fraCture (1482.), particular- ly when oblique (1483.) , extenfion is al- moft always a neceflary preliminary ; it is applied cautioufly according to refiftence (which is as the mufcular power), in the healthful direction of the broken bone, while the mufcular relaxation is confult- ed *. The fooner after the infliction of the injury, the more ealily is reduction practi- cable : Recovery of form is a certain mark of its completenefs. 1495. Reduction (1493.) of compound fraCture (1485.) is fometimes rendered dif- ficult by the protrufion of one or more fragments from its wound (1441.). This obftacle may be furmounted by, 1. Enlarging the wound (1441.): 2. Amputation of the protruding bone. The firft of thefe expedients is obvioufly ducenda et adaptanda, inque hoc fitu, quamdiu res ex- igit, retinenda ; fymptomata avertenda vel initiganda; fequelae praepediendae. Calissen. * See PoTT on Fractures, pafTmi.408 ELEMENTS of preferable, becaufe leaft deftrudtive, not-* withftanding the authority by which the taft is abetted % • Retention. 1496. Retention of fradture (1493.), af- ter coaptation (1494.) has been happily ef- fected, is procured by the influence of, 1. Deligation : 2. Pofture. The former affords a temporary fubftitu- tion to the healthful function of the bone till concretion enfue. The latter is fo regu- lated as not to diminifh mu'fcular re- laxation. Splints (ferulae), (pafteboard is a convenient material for their formation), properly fhaped, and equalling at leaft the length of the divided bone, fuftained by ligature, accurately adjufted as to ftridt- nefs, conftitute the moft commodious de- ligation for fimple fradture (1482.). 1497. Retention (1485.) of compound fradture (1485.) is an arduous bufinefs, principally on account of the prefence of wound (1441.). To furmount the embar- raffment refulting from the oppofite cura- * See Gooch’s Surgery.SURGERY; 409 live treatment, indicated by the affections, has formed the wilh, and called forth the exertion- of ingenious furgeons in every age. Much has been done, much remains to be done. Of the numerous modes of retentive deligation, that claims the pre- ference, which is calculated mod effectual- ly to fupply the function of the bone, while it does not remarkably didurb that of the foft parts *. Amputation confdered as a Remedy of Fraflure. 1498. Inflammation (776.) confequent to fracture may be fo aggravated as to ter- minate in exceffive fuppuration (782.), and even in mortification (788.), notwith- ftanding the fulled influence of antiphlo- gifiics (815.). The fplintered condition of the bone likewife may preclude th§ hopes of re-union, circumdances that, in * Since publishing 'F.ffays arid Cafes in Surgery, ill ■which the principal inventions for Retentiofi of frac- ture, and Fran [portation of frafture patients, are enu- merated, 1 have made feveral (and I hope fuccefsful) attempts to improve this part of furgery ; but the nature of the prelent work does not permit their de- tail : hereafter I may poffibly venture to publfih them Vol. II. 3 F410 ELEMENTS of order to fave life, may juftify amputation, or the fubflitution of fimple wound. Thisdecifive remedy ought not to be applied till the healing power (73.) has been per- mitted to make a full exertion, which not rarely is aftonifhingly great. Fradiure of the Skull. 1. Fissure. Appellations. Fissura. Contra fissura. Fissure. Definition. 1499. Erasure (1482.) without remark- able alteration of the fragments f. f Fissura—Separatio offis in duas partes, rima tantum diffitas, eE alterutro faltem cohaerentes. Sau- VAGESIUS. Fissura—DifTblutio oilis recla et ut ligni in lon- gitudinem. VogELIUS. Fissura—Divifio odium, rimnm referens, haecee- ve non penitus feparans. Sagarus. Fissure—Une efpece de frafture, ou de folution de continuite, longue et tres etroiie. Villars.SURGERY. 411 2. Depression. Appellations. Thlasis. Thlasma. Definition. 1500. Fradhire (1482.), with depreflion ©r inward intrufion of a fragment *. Diagnojlic. 1501. Frafture of the fkull (1499.), al- ways an alarming affection, on account of the proximity of the brain (encephalon), is difcovered by 1. Infpedtion through a wound (1441.) or incifion: 2. Symptoms of comprelfed brain (1205.), created by haematokele (1186.) or intrufion of bone or other matters. * Thlasis — Calvaria depreffa citra fra&uram. VoGELIUS. Thlasis — Efpece de fra&ure des os plats, qui confident dans une contufion et un enfoncement des fibres ofleufes. Villars. 3 F 2412 ELEMENTS of i Cure. 1502. Trepanning will always be necef- fary when depreflion (1500.) is manifeft, or when fiffure (1499.) is accompanied with extravafation (1186.) inducing com- predion (1205.) of the brain. 1503. Fradlure of the fkull (1499.) ever requires a powerful ufe of antiphlogiftics to obviate inflammation (776.), which often refults from concuflion or commotion of the brain, or derangement (28.), the efledt of the fradturing violence. 3. Ulcer. Appellations. Elcosis. Ulcus. Morbus Lazari, Exulceratio. Ulcere. Ulceration. Sore. X)efnition. 1504. Divifion (1439.) not recent, dif-SURGERY. 4i3 charging a foetid matter, varionfly colour- ed and confident *. * Ulcus—Partium mollium erofio purulenta, cute profundior, cum pure icherofo, vel utcunque vitiofo. Sauvagesius. Ulcus—Vulnus fuppuratum partis carnofae. Lin- naeus. Ulcus-—Partis mollis folutio purulenta vel iclie- rpfa. Cullf.nus. 4 * C. * i Ulcus—Difcrimen efl inter vulnus et ulcus. Vul- nus Temper ad fanitatem tendit : in ulcere aliquid eft, quod in pedit curationem. Omne vulnus facile in ul- cus degenerat; et ulcus fanari nequit, nili prius ita mutatum fuerit, ut naturam vulneris habeat. Plat-. NERUS. Ulcus—Solution de continuite dans quelque par- te'e que ce foit du corps humain, avec erofion de fub- ftance, et ecoulement de pus. De Villars, Chi- rurgie, vol. vi. p. 349. Species of Elcofis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Elcofis fiftulofa. Fijlule. 2. Elcofis variolofa. Petit. 3. Elcofis herpetica. Ulcus fefipigeticfum. Heifter. Ulcere dartreux. 4. Elcofis fcrophulofa. 5. Elcofis hydropum. 6. Elcofis fcorbutica. . Noma tibiarum. Linnaei.414 ELEMENTS of 1505. Ulcer (1504.) is idiopathic (43.), or fymptomatic (44.). The remarks which follow chiefly refpedt the former ; becaufe the latter, whether fcorbutic (697.), fcro- phulous (757.) or fyphilitic (766.), does not admit of healing till the primary af- fedtion is fubverted. Situation and Dijlin Elion. 1506. Idiopathic ulcer (1505.) maybe external or internal, every component part (17.) of the body being fufceptible of it. The lower portion of the cutaneous furface is its mod common fltuation. From the matter difcharged, it is named, 1. Purulent (784.): 2. Sanious. Diagnojlic. 1507. External ulcer (1506.) is vifible. The exiftence of internal ulcer is detected by the 1. Lofs of function of the parts affedt* ed : 7. Elcofis fyphilitica. 8. Elcofis cancrofa. 9. Elcofis gangraenofa. jo. Elcofis ./Egyptiaca. farbo. iEgyptiorum,I SURGERY. 415 2. Matter difcharged: 3. Touch in certain fituations. 1508. The difcrimination of idiopathic (43.) and fymptomatic (44.) ulcer, a point of the greateft importance, refults from fcrupulous attention to 1. The characters of the fuppofed pri- mary difeafe (43.): 2. Its habit: 3. Its hiftory or progrefs (70.). Caufes. 1509. Ulcer (1504.) is perhaps always preceded by inflammation (776.) Its im- mediate predifponent (58.) and occafional caufes (60.) deferve well to be attentively marked. Prognojlic. 1510. Prognoftic (71.)? efpecially regard- ing idiopathic ulcer (1506.) will depend much on the 1. Nature: 2. Extent: 3. Situation : 4. Duration : 5. Conftitution of the patients416 ELEMENTS ot Cure of Purulent TJlcer. 1511. Purulent ulcer (1506.), much al- lied to wound (1441.), demands nearly the lame method of cure (1446.). Cure of Sanious Ulcer. 1512. Sanious ulcer (1506.), fo denomi- nated from the matter difcharged being ferous or ichorous, is often exceedingly obftinate and untra&able. Its cicatriza- tion (1443.) or reduction to the ftate of wound (1441.) or purulent ulcer (1506.) is attainable often by 4 1. Soft abforbent applications * : 2. Obviating the gravitation of the fluids: 3. Dietetic medicine (94.). 4. Amputation, or fubftitution of wound: * Scraped Lint has already been mentioned as a foft abforbent covering to wound and ulcer : when the effufion is abundant, it rather imbibes too Uowly and fcantily. Sponge, which has been rationally recom- mended as an abforbent after amputation, 1 apply to- ulcer, as well fymptomatic as idiopathic, with the tnoft complete fuccefs, interpoftng a thin layer of Lint to ob- viate its entangling amoDg the granulations. I permit it to adhere from four to fourteen days, according to circumftances. Ointments confuting of refinous and oily ingre- dients are in every view improper and hurtful appliwSURGERY. 4 T7 Issu£. Appellations. Fontanella. Artificial ulcer. Definition. 1513. Wound (1441.) intentionally con- verted into ulcer (1504.) by irritation. 1514. Argument and experience {hew the inefhcacy of iffue (1513.) formed in the vicinity of in veterate fanious ulcer (15 06.) as a means of favouring cicatrization (1443.)* Varieties. 1515. There are feveral varieties of ul- cations to wound or ulcer. I have thrice, in the ro- tation of attendance, expelled them from the furgery of the Royal Infirmary. I furround the margin of wound and ulcer with four parts of honey, and one of wax bleached or un- bleached, carefully melted together, and triturated till cold, under the name of Ceramet. The proportion inay be varied : I fometimes add one part of fperma- cete. When intended for the venereal ulcer, I extin- guilh the ufual quantity of quickfilver in the ceromel, Vol. II. 3 G418 ELEMENTS of cer (i5°4-)j as weh m refpecdof form and situation, as of other characters that de- ferve enumeration and remark. Fistulous Ulcer. Appellations. Fistula. Sinus. Sinuous ulcer. t . . Definition. 1516. Ulcer (1504.) with a narrow, of- ten callous orifice * Fistula—Cavitas ulcerofa, finuofa, cujus pa- rietes callofi funt ut plurimum, aut fundus ad os cari- ofum, arthrocace corruptum, pertingit. Sauvage- sius. Fistula—Ulcus cortice callofo vaginatutn. Lin- NAEUS. Fistula —'ileus finuofo-penetrans, intus cortice obteftum, ore anguftatum. Linnaeus. Fistula—Ulcus altum, angufhnn, callofum. Vo- GELIUS. Fistula—Ulcus cortice callofo vaginatum, ore an- guftatum, oblonguni. Sagarus. Fistula, feu ulcus fidulolum genuinutn, dignofei-SURGERY. 419 Dijlin Elion. 1517. Fiftulous ulcer (1516.) feated in the lachrymal paflages is Fistula lachrymalis : In the falivary dudts, is Fistula salivalis : In the bladder of urine, or its urethre, is Fistula perinaei vel urinaria: l In the vicinity of the end-gut (anus), is Fistula ani. Cure. 1518. Cicatrization (1443.) of fiftulous ulcer (1516.), experience demonftrates, is obtainable by incifion * or adequate irrita- tion, exciting adhefive inflammation (778). Excifion *, formerly a common practice, is unneceflfary. \ tur angufto foramine cutis in canalem ampliorem ca- vernofum terminato, oftio et fuperficie vix unquani non callofis, puris ichoroli copiofiore, quam cum an- gufta apertura convenit, itillicidio, et totius ulceris an- tiquitate. Calissen. * See Incision and Excision. 3 G 2420 ELEMENTS op . Carious Ulcer. Appellations. Caries. Rotten bone. Definition. 1519. Ulcer (1504.) affecting a bone*. Diagnojlic. 1520. Carious ulcer (1519.) is diftiu* guifhed by I. Situation; * Caries.—Oflls fuo periofteo denudati decolora- tio, afperitas, exfoliatio, et fubfequens fragilitas ac erolio. Sauvagesius. Caries — tJkus oflis feparato periofteo. Lin- naeus. Caries—Ulcus connivens cum raris pumftionibus, indolens, fanies paftim nigra fe prodens. Linnaeus. Caries—Ulcus in ofle, cum fubftantiae et perioftei corruptione, qua os fpongiofum et friabile redditur. Vogelius. Caries—Ulcus oflis. Cullenus. Caries—Oftis erofio cava, afpera, periofteo denu- data, plerumque nigra ; unde os evadit fragile, fria- bile, vel exfalcabile. SaCarus. 1SURGERY. 421 2. Roughnefs to the touch : 3. Peculiar fmell of the matter difchar- ged. 1521. The nature of the offeous flruc- ture preventing the folution which would Otherwife happen, a portion of the bone really dead is prefent very conftantly in carious ulcer (1519.), analogous to Hough (862.), and feparation, peculiarly named exfoliation (863.), accedes. Cure. 1522. Argument is wanting to evince why carious ulcer (1519.) ought to obtain any fpeciality of cure, except in regard to mortified bone (1521.). Exfoliation (863.), which fometimes takes place to an afto- nifhing extent, is with great propriety pro- moted by 1. Incifion of the contiguous foft part, when evidently giving obftrudHon : 2. Poultice, plain (826.), or varioufly an- tifeptic (118.) : 3. Abforbent covering (1459.). 1523. Exfoliation (863.) is neceffarily retarded, or totally fupprefled, by any ap-422 ELEMENTS of plication, chirurgic (96.) or pharmaceutic (95*)j that tends to check or impede incar- nation (1459.), by which the dead parts are fully detached ; confequently, the mif- chievous abfurdity of employing perfora- tions, adlual cautery, fpirituous impregna- tions, and the like *, requires no illuftra- tion. 1524. Carious ulcer (1519.) and morti- fication of the bone (1521.) become not rarely fo extended, that exfoliation (863.) is a talk too great to be performed by the * Superfcie (oilis) autem jam e7nortua, vel laminae exfoliatio promovenda eft, quod cita et attenta deliga- tione, fpiritu viui reSijicatiJJimo, effentiis vel pulveribus balfaDiicisy olds aether eh, partis cariofae ad fingu inis profluvium perforatione olninetnr ; vel corruptum fcal- pri idonei ope anfertur. Si pars cariofa ulcere exter- no major fuerit, hujus dilatationem non raro per fe patet. Ceterum aqnoforum pinguium ufus, atrifque accefi’us, fedulo vitetur. Profundae cariei oflis demi- datione, remediis jamjam laudatis, interdurn quoque ear/fids, inter quae hydrargyrum in acore niircfo folti- tum, atque pulvis Euphorbii, principem locum tenent. Praejtantiffimum tamen in caric profunda, humida im- primis et carnibns luxuriantibus obfefia, remedium con- ' iiftit in prudentc ignis adminiftrationc. Injlitutioncs Chirttrg/ae hodiernqe KeNRICI Calissen, M. D. See. Was a furgeon intent to prevent exfoliation, could he imagine applications more apt or deranging?SURGERY. 423 healing power (73.}, however well medi- cine (89.) may be fubfervient; a calami- tous event, that, when the parts are accef- fible, juftifies a tranfmutation into wound by amputation partial or complete *, ac- cording to circumftances, to prevent the fatal effects of hedtic fever (693.). Cancerous Ulcer, Appellations. Cancer. Carcinoma. Noli me tangere. Noma. * Mr White, an eminent furgeon in Mancheffer,, fbccefsfully introduced partial amputation as to the larger bones having their articular extremities affedted ■with carious ulcer, by which limbs, and probably life, have been faved. He cut off' the head of the arm- bone in a carious condition ; a beautiful practice, that has been profperoufly imitated in a fnnilar cafe by Mr Orred, furgeon in Chefter; and lately in Liverpool, in an inffance of carious knee-joint, the extremities of the thigh and leg bones being amputated, and the foft parrs preferved. May not this practice be ex- tended to the head of the thigh-bone ? See Mr White’s Cafes and Remarks ; and Philofo• phical Tra>factions, vol. lxix.ELEMENTS of 4H Ulcus phagedaenicum. Ulcus depascens. Cancer occultum. Cancer apertum. Cancer. Definition. 1525. Ulcer (1504.) fupervening to &irrhoiity (1312.) *. * Carcinoma—Ulcus cancerofnm cum doloribus lancinantibus. Sauvagesius. Carcinoma—Ulcus fcirrhi fuppurati. Carcinoma—Ulcus putridum, ferpens, vafis tumi- dis radicatum, periodicc dolens. Linnaeus. Carcinoma—Cancri converfio in ulcus, quod ni- grum eft, putridum, teterrimi odoris, ec vehementer dolet. Vogelius. Carcinoma—Scirrhi ulcus. Cullenus. Carcinoma—Ulcera cancrofa, fordida, labiis duris, everfis, fcirrholls, ex quibus ichor manat acris et ro- dens; adfunt infuper dolores lancinantes, excrefcen- tiae fungofae, venae adjacentes varicofae non inepte pedes cancri referentes, et febris heftica. Sagarus. Cancer—Tumor durus, tuberofus, lancinans, per- tinaciftimus. SauvagEsius. Cancer—Tumor durus, dolore lancinante gravis, inaequalis, livefcens aut nigricans. Vogelius.SURGERY. Vol. II. 3 H Diagno/lic. 1526. Cancerous ulcer (1525.) is mark- ed by 1. Situation generally glandular : 2. Pain uncommonly acute : 3. Rapid extenlion : 4. Acrimonious difcharge : 5. Ragged and often inverted cir- cumference. 1527. Scirrholity (1312.), and flefti- fwelling in general (1305.), may be per- Cancer—Phyma fcirrhofum, lancinans, venis vari* cofis profunde rubris, nigris, lividis oblitum, cinftum, facile fanguinantibus. Sagarus. Species of Carcinoma, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Carcinoma vnlgare. 2. Carcinoma fyjbhiliricdiii; Cambuca. Particeifi. Species of Cancer, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Cancer verrucofus. 2. Cancer myrmecia. 3. Cancer lupus. Lup 'ia cancrofa. 4. Cancer phagedaena. 5. Cancer fyphiliticus.426 ELEMENTS of haps confidered as a predifpofltion (15.) to cancerous ulcer (1525.) : Attacked by inflammation (776.), the integuments as yet entire, occult cancer is produced ; thus termed in diftindtion to its after condi- tion called open cancer. Cure. 1528. Experience has too abundantly evidenced, that chirurgic medicine (96.) alone, by timeous amputation *, while cir- cumfcription (1317.) permits, is equal to the eradication of cancerous ulcer (1525.). It may be performed by 1. The knife : 2. Cauftics j\ 1529. Subftitution of Ample wound {1441.) being the eflence of amputation, it is evident that this only remedy of can- cer (1525.) ought to be applied as foon as. this direful evil is difcovered, or rather as foon as its predifpofltion can be marked,. * See Amputation. -j- Plunket’s Remedy appears to be a <auftic com- pofed of arfenic and honey. This or any fimilar ap- plication is only curative by deflroying (amputating} the morbid parts.SURGERY. 3 H 2 \ 427 that the fatal diffemination of the poifon it generates may be fuperfeded f. 1530. Palliation is the lamentable fate of the defperate wretch in whom the ex- tenfion of cancer (1525.) precludes am- putation (1528.).. 1. Poultice (826.) varioufly blended with recent herbaceous matter,—carrot, turnip, See. : 2. Delicate abforbent matter impofed. f Mr Kill affirmed, chat of eighty-eight patients, from whom he had amputated cancerous affe&ions, after two years, feventy-ljx were found in health. Cafes in Surgery, p. 8. Mr Bruce, middle-aged, perceived a fin all painful fwelling near the inner angle of the left eye, which , during eight years, having become cancerous, gradu- ally dellroyed the adjacent portions of the eye-lids and eye-ball, notwithdanding a mod unparallelled confumprion of hemlock in every form internally and externally, particularly of its exprefi'ed juice : during eighteen months or two years, he 1 wallowed by mea- fure at lead one hundred and twenty Englifh pints, Arfenic once nearly produced cicatrization. He had confultations in Edinburgh and London. I urged the expediency of amputation of the eye-lids and eye-ball, a fentiment that was adopted, and which I executed in prefence of Dr A. Monro. Within three months the wound was perfectly healed, and he now enjoys full health.ELEMENTS of 428 devoid of ftimulation, and qualified to ab- ftratft its acrimonious difcharge : 3. Anodynes (119-) generally and lo- cally applied : Are the tranfient and feeble means of ob- tunding its inexpreffible tortures, till the complete deftrucftion of vital organization happily and finally extinguifh feeling. Herpetic Ulcer. Appellations. Herpes. Impetigo (765.). Dartre. Tetter. Ring-worm, Definition^ 1531. Ulcer (1504.) comparatively fu^ perficial, generally covered with a fcaly cruft, extending commonly beyond its firft limit * * Herpes — Effiorefcentiae ex tumoribcis exiguis, rubris, aggregates, pruriginofis, in fquamas furfura. ceas. raro cruftofas. abenntibus. Sauvagesius.429 SURGERY, ' Itch. Appellations, Scabies, Psora. Herpes—Puftulae efcharoticae, bafi communi cry, fipelacea. Linnaeus. Herpes—Papula ardens, cutem ferpentibus mini, mis puftulis erodens, Purpura fcorbutica quam vocant, s'eriflima ferpigo. Vogelius. Herpes—Phlytftaenae vel ulcufcula plurima, gre- galis, dylepuleta. Cullenus. Herpes—Papularum prurientium corymbus in fqua, mas furfuraceas fatifcentium. Sagarus. Species of Herpes, according to Sauvages, are. 1. Herpes fimplex. Scrmert. Dartre farinettfe. Dartre feche. 2. Herpes mjliaris. Ejufdem. Dartre miliaire. 3. Herpes ferpigo. Turneri. Formica ambulatoria. Celfi. Dartre encrouiee. 4. Herpes elthiomenos. Galeni. Herpes exedens vel depafcens. Turneri. 5. Herpes fyphiliticus. Herpes venereus. A ft rue. 6. Herpes perifcelis. Zona et Zojler. j. Herpes collaris.43° ELEMENTS of Gale. Scab. Vulgor. / Definition. T532* Ulcer 1504.) confequent to a fmall phlegmonic (776.) puftule (287.), often covered with a cruft fometimes fcaly, peculiarly itchy, and contagioufly propa- gating itfelf by contadl * 8. Herpes puftulofus. 9. Herpes Zofter. Zona ignea. Hoffman. Zona. Ruffeli. Ceinture dartreufe, Shingles. * Psora—Puffulae et ulcufcula pruriginofa, con- tagiofa, manus male habens. Sauvagesius. Scabies—Puftulae cruftofae, lentis magnitudine, pruriginofae, manus potiffimum obfidentes. Sauva. gesius. Scabies—Durities cutis rubicundior, ex qua pudu- lae oriuntur, quaedam humidiores, quaedam ficciores,- faniem rodentem, exulcerantem, cruftas formantem, et contagiofam complexae. Vogelius. Scabies—Puffulae et ulcufcula pruriginofa, conta- giofa, manus male habens. Cullenus. Scabies cognofcitur ex puffulis vel phly£faenis, lentis vel fecalis grani magnitudine, lympham aut fa-*1. SURGERY. 9. Scabies Neogamorura. 43 Scald Head. Appellations. Tinea. PSYDRACIA. Lichen. Achor. Crusta lactea. Ignis volaticus. Teigne. Milk crust. niem continentibus, quae fcalpendo ruptae cruftas pru- rientes formant. Contagiofus hie morbus et inocula^- bilis flexuras artuum maxime occupat, et fquamis caret. Sagarus. Species of Scabies, according to Sauvages, are* 1. Scabies humida, benigna. Hoffman. 2. Scabies critica. 3. Scabies canina. 4. Scabies herpetica. 5. Scabies fcorbutica. 6. Scabies Indica. Herpes feu impetigo Indica. 7. Scabies catamenialis. Fribe. 8. Scabies felina. Wedelii. 10. Scabies Cretica. 11. Scabies vermicularis.43 2 ELEMENTS of Definition. 1533. Ulcer (1504.) covered with a yellow cruft infefting the hairy fcalp and face, moft commonly occurring during infancy and youth *. * Tinea —Cruftae flavae vel grifeae, ulcerofae, per caput diverfae. Sauvagesius. Tinea—Puftulae capillitii ficcae, efchara albo-fia- vefcente, pilifque abbreviatis, eredtis, bulbofo-radicatis. Linnaeus. Tinea—Ulcus capitis, quod denfiflimam duriffimam- que cruftam facie, ferpens, piiis abbreviatis. Voge- lius. Tinea—In cute capillata, ad radices capillorum, ulcufcula, humorera in cruftatn albam, friabilem, abe- unteni fundetitia. Cullenus. Tinea—Tinea incipit a puftulis vel phlyclaenis ca- pitis aut faciei, diverficoloribus, quae ruptae in crultas humidas vel ficcas abeunt corymbofae ; videtur nimi-. rum efle fcabies capitis, et nihil aliud. Sagarus. Species of Tinea, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Tinea ladtea. Achor. ' LaElucimen. Crtijla laElca. 2. Tinea volatica. Feu volage. Lichen, vitiligo, mentagrd. Ouor undam.433 SURGERY. Lachrymal Ulcer. Appellation. Aegilops. Definition* 1534. Ulcer (1504.) formed in the paf- fage of the trois *. Aphthous Ulcer. Appellations. Aphtha. Ignis JllvcJiris et volaticus, raaxime dum mento irlhaeret. 3. Tinea favofa. Aftruc. Ket ion, favus. 4. Tinea ficofa. Ejufdem. 5. Tinea humida., Ejufdem. 6. Tinea porriginofa. Ejifdetti. Pityriafs. /Eginetae. Furfurifca. Gilbert. Porr’tgo. Tineafurfuracea. 7. Tinea crultofa. 8. Tinea lupina. 9. Tinea fyphilitica. * iEciLops—Anchilops in ulcus conVerfutn. Vo- GELIUS. ' t VoL. II. 3 I434 ELEMENTS of Pemphingodes. PUSTULAE ORIS. Vesiculae gingivarum* Thrush. Definition. 1535. Ulcer (1504.) generally covered with a white cruft, occupying the mouth,, and perhaps the alimentary furface, con- nected feemingly with eryfipelatons in- flammation (1090.), and very conftantly attending he<£tic fever (693.) *. * Aphtha—Eruptio puftulofa, phlyftenodes, ec ulcerofa, in ore aut pudenda. Sauvagesius. Aphthae—Efcharae albidae, rotundae, du&ibus* excretoriis internis innatae. Sauvagesius. Aphthae—Ulcera oris aut pudendorum fuperficia- ria, mucofa. Vogelius. Aphtha—Lingua tumidiufcula ; linguae et fau- cium color purpurafcens ; efcharae os internum totum- ©ccupantes. Cullenus. Species of Aphtha, according to Sauvages, are,. 1. Aphtha la&ucimen. Matiget. Aphthae mfcintiles. 2. Aphtha febrilis. Aphthae iti adultis. Sennert. 3. Aphtha maligna. 4. Aphtha fyphilitica. Ulcufcula venerea oris. Aflruc. Aphtha fcorbutica.SURGERY. 435 Nose-Ulcer. appellations. n OZAENA. OzAENE. Definition. • 1536. Ulcer {1504.) fituated within the nofe or nafal cavity (1140.) *. Chap. Appellations. Rhagas. Fissura. * Ozaena—Ulcus intra antrum Highmori. Lin- naeus. Ozaena—Ulcus occultum e naribus faerens. Lin- naeus. Ozaena—Ulcus narium putridum, e quo grave- olens mucus exftillat. Vogelius. Ozaena—Ulcus intra antrum Highmori fordidum, cariofum, foetens; fi in finubus frontalibus aut fphae- roidalibus fit, vocant illud Germani Apoflema capitis: facile fefe prorit Ozaena dyfodia, exftillante materia ichorofa, fordida, e naribus. Sagarus. 3 1 2436 E L E M E N T S of Fente. Crevasse. Gersure. Definition. 1537. Ulcer (1504.) of a linear form af-- fetfling chiefly the margin of the mouth, and of the inferior extremity of the; ali- mentary canal (anus) *, Lunq-uecer. Appellations. Phthisis pulmonalis,. Lung-consumption. Phthisic. % Definition. 1538. Ulcer (1504.) formed in the lungs (759-)- * Rhagas—Solutio continui ficca in partium mar- ginibus. Sauvagesius. Rhagas—Fiffura cutis arida. Linnaeus. Rhaga s—Solutio cutis linearis, arida. Vogelius. Rhagas—Solutio continui ficca in partium molli- u:n marginibus, ut labiis oris. Sagarus.SURGERY. 437 IV. DEFORMITY, Appellations. Deformatio. Deformis. Deformitas. Distortion. Malformation. Definition. 1539. Malformation of any part or or- gan of the animal body connate or acqui-. red. tn iTj.^arfn. SUPPLE-JOINT. Appellations. Loxartiirus. Perversio ARTICULIo Definition. 1540. Deformity (1539.) rehilting from uncommon and morbid flexibility of a joint *. * Loxarthrus—Odium cum motu fenfibili arti- sulatorum fitus relativus in alienum conftanter muta»438 ELEMENTS of Cure. 1541. Morbid fupplenefs of a joint (1540.), an obvious affection (28.), re- quires mechanical counteraction (128.) to be derived from deligation f. Joint-contraction. Appellations. CONTRACTURA. Anchylosis. Beriberia. Ankylose. Contracture. Contraction. Definition. 1542. Deformity (1539.) formed by an tus, aut obliquitas refpettiva perfiftens, cltra exarthre- uia et fpafmum. Sauvagesius. Species of Loxarthrus, according toSAUVAGES, are, 1. Loxarthrus perverfivus. 2. Loxarthrus anifotonicus. 3. Loxarthrus gibbofus. Gibbofitas fcapularis feu alata. f See Deligation. fI SURGERY. 439 articulation or joint fixed in its Hate o£ flexion j*. Cure. 1543. Joint-eontradlion (1542.), which refults from deranged ftrudture of the arti* f Contractura—Artus cujufdam, ut brachii vel cruris, conftans, diuturna rigiditas fenfini exorta. Sauvagesitts. Contractura—Geniculorum fixatio rigida. Lin- naeus. Contractura—Geniculorum contraCtio rigida. CULLENUS. Contractura—Artus unius, vel plurium con- ftans, diuturna rigiditas, inflexilitas. SagarU3. Species of ContraCtura, according to Sauvages-, ape, 1. Contractura hypochondriaca. Bonet. 2. ContraCtura dolorifica. 3. ContraCtura fcorbutica. Sennert. 4. Contractura paralytica. Schroder. 5. ConrraCtura rachialgica. Tetanus metallicus. Lorry. 6. ContraCtura Bohemica. Schenckit. 7. ContraCtura arthritica. Etmuller, 8. Contractura catarrhalis. Baton, I 9. ContraCtura ankylofis. 10. ContraCtura fyphilitica. 11. ContraCtura fpafmodica. %ELEMENTS of 440 cular organs, whether ofleous, ligament tous, or mufcnlar, (17.), is moft fre- quently fymptomatic (44.), acircumftance in its cure meriting ultimate attention. Depending on mufcular alteration only, falut^ry influence is derivable from, 1. Tepid bath (408.) : 2. Deligation t: 3. Counteraction from appended weight jultly proportioned. Club-foot. Appellations. Lordosis varorum. Lordosis valgorum. Definition. 1544. Deformity (1539*) of the ankle' permitting the foot moft commonly to be turned towards the other, or inwards * See Deligation. f Lordosis—Oflium ditfortio, unde hinc protu- berant, inde vero excavanrur artus, ac incurvantur ofla, vel a fitu defleaunt. Sauvagesius. Lordosis—Odium incurvatio. Linnaeus. Lordosis—Gibber. Vogelius.441 SURGERY. Caufes. 1545. Club-foot (1543.), a native de- formity derived from accidental pofirion of the patient before birth, is far from be- ing a rare affection, it is very difqualify- ing. Cure. 1546. Club-foot (1544.) mayjuftlybe confidered as diilocation (1344.)* and treat- ed by early and afliduous deligation, that, retention beingTecured, the obftrudt- ed parts, by being permitted to expand, may affume form and function Lordosis—On'uim longiorum fiftuloforum circa medium iafle&io, edopia a tinea recta. Sagarus. Species of Lordofis, according to Sauvages, are, 1. Lordofis compernium. 2. Lordolis valgoruin. 3. Lordofis. varorum. t I have paid much attention to this affection, and, I flatter myfelf, have improved the deligation, fo as to obtain its full effedt, with as little inconvenience as poflible, even in the youngefl. See Fab. Hildani Opera, Cent. Vi. Ob. 9. See White’s Cafes and Remarks m Surgery, p. 47. Vol. IT. 3 KELEMENTSof 442 / Webbing. Definition. 1547. Deformity (1539.) created by mutual concretion of the fingers and toes refpeCtively. Cure. 1548. Webbing (1547.), according to fituation, named web-hand and web-foot, is native or accidental, and admits fome- times of rectification from the knife. Hare-Lip. Appellations. Lagostoma. La6ocheilos. Labarium. Labium leporinum.- Bec de lievre. Definition. 1549^ Deformity (1539-) confiding in a divilion of a lip, generally the upper one, and fometimes of the jaw and palatd,SURGERY. 443 for the molt part connate; not feldom traumatic (1441.) Cure. 1550. Concretion by the firft intention (782.), attained by 1. Repolition : 2. Retention: Constitutes the cure of hare-lip (1549.) The conversion of its native variety into equal-fided angular wound (1441.) is ne- celfary ; a talk varioully difficult accord- ing to circumltances f. Tongue-Tying. Definition. 1551. Deformity (1539.) of the integu- ments connecting the tongue to the bot- * Lagostoma—Labium fuperius oris fiffum. Lin- naeus. * Lagostoma—Labium oris fifTum. Sagarus. Lacocheilos—Divifum femtl vel bis labium ; Labium Ieporinum quoque dictum. VoCELIUS. + See Rectification. 3 K 2ELEMENTS of 444 tom of the mouth (fraenum linguae), hampering motion. Cure. * 1552. Incifion cautioufly performed fub-^ ftitutes wound (1441.) for tongue-tying (IJ51-) t- Bone-Incurvation, Appellations. Lordosis, Distortion. Bow-leg. Definition. 1553. Deformity (1539*) refulting from the bending or curvature of bone, or the oflfeous parts, efpecially of thofe of the limbs *. Gibbosity. Appellations. Gibbositas. f See Rectification. * Lordosis. See its Definitions, § 1544*SURGERY. 445 Gibber. Obstipitas. Torticollis. Caput obstipum. La bosse. Spine distortion. Hump-back. Vulgor. Definition. 1554. Deformity (1539.) refultingfrom an alteration of the healthful arrangement of the fpine or back-bones *. * Gibbositas—OfTium pefioris indecora promi- nentia a tumore, luxatione, diftortione, aut alio prin- cipio oriunda. Sauvagesius. Gibbositas—Odium pettus vel pelvim componen- tium indecora prominentia a tumore, luxatione, dia- ftafi, tortione, preflione, aut alio principio nata. Sa- GARUS. Gibber—.Thoracis dilatatio prominens. Linnaeus. Gibber—Protuberantia fpinae dorfalis, omoplatae olfiumve thoracis. Ejus fpecies Cyphofts, Lordofis, Scol- cofis, et Scefis. VoGELlUS. Obstipitas—Colli fpafmus tonicus, capitis nati- vam mobilitatem et direttionem mutans. Sauva- gesius. Obstipitas—Colli fpafmus, vulgo dicitur Torti-446 E L E M E N T S of *555• Spine-diftprtion or gibbofity (1554*) 1S frequently fymptomatic (44.), and ofteneft of rickets (1538.) : Sometimes it is evidently generated by inclined and lateral attitude too long continued, impe- ding the growth and altering the fhape of the vertebres (vertebrae.). Cure, 1556. Rectification of gibbofity (1554.), or prevention of its increafe, is mofl like- ly to be derived from, 1. Diminifhing the incumbent weight or influence of the head or upper parts up- on the fpine, confidered as a column and lever : 2. Reverfing the culpable attitude, at leaft abftaining from it perfeveringly : Thofe effeCts can only be procured from ingenious deligation, of which the modes may be numerous *. rollis, tonicus vel clonicus, capitis mobilitatem et direc- tionem inutans. Sagarus. Caput orstipum—Incurvatio colli. Vogelius. * See Heisteri Injlitut. Chir. T. xxiv. fig. 5. See M. LE Vacher’s Memoir in the Collection of thofe of the Royal Academy of Surgery} vol, iv.surgery. 447 Narrow Bason. - • ylppellations. Distortio pelvis ossium. Distorted pelvis. Definition. 1557. Deformity (1539.) of the capa-' city of the bafon (pelvis), arifing from the component bone. 1558. The exiftence of narrow bafon (I557,)> a greaC calamity when it affecfts the female ftrudture, becaufe it propor- tionally impedes parturition, is detected by comparative menfuration. Is the prin- cipal fource of obftetrical furgery *. 1559. Deformity (1539-) fometimes af- fedls the organs after mentioned, and re- quires a fuited application of chirurgic medicine (96.) f : 1. The inferior extremity of the ali- * See Womb-objlruction. f See Extraction.448 ELEMENTS of mentary canal, confifting in imperforatiori or other alteration, ndmed Imperforated rectum,' Anus imperforatus, rendering incifion neceffary : 2. Elongation and alteration of the nymphae, requiring excifion * : 3. The external orifice of the womb (os uteri externum), or its paffage, nar- rowed or ihut up by membrane or con- cretion, indicating incifion : 4. Malarrangement of a tooth, requiring preffure J or extraction ||. 5. The dbubling of the integuments forming the prepuce, and connecting it to the gland (fraenum preputii), requiring incifion 4- : 6. The orifices of the nofe and ear, when deficient, may require opening 4. * See Nymphotom^* f See Incision. $ See Mr Hunter's Treat ife on Dfeafes of' the Teeth. || See Tooth-drawing. 4. See Incision.449 SURGERY. V. OBSTRUCTION. Appellations. Meatuum obstructio. Occlusion. Definition. 1560. Obftrudtion (713.) of a paffage ' (meatus) of the animal body. Difin Elion. 1561. Obftrudtion (1560.), an affection (28.) frequently occurring, and afford- ing much fcope for chirurgic medicine (96.), may be 1. Organic : 2. Mechanic: A diftindtion meriting much attention. Diagnofic. 1562. The exiftence of obftruction .(156a) in general, of eafy detection, is fully afcertained by 1. Infpection : 2. ' Touching : 3. Lofs of function. Vol. IL 3 LELEMENTS of * See Extraction. 45° v Cure. / 1563. The cure of organic obftruCtion (1561.), which is often fymptomatic (44.)* requires attention to the prifnary affec- tion (43.) : That of mechanical ob- flrudtion (1561.) neceffarily demands the extraction of the obftruCting matter, a talk varioufly difficult, which may of- ten warrant incifion. * Varieties. Tear-Obstruction* Appellations. Epiphora. Tearing. Definition. 1564. ObflruCtiori (1560.)' of the paffage of the tears to die nofe (viae lachryma- rum). Cure. 1565. When the natural paffage cannot be rendered pervious by the fpecified prac-SURGERY. 451 tice (1563.), an artificial one may be form- ed *. Nose-Obstruction. Definition. 1566. Obstruction (1560.) of the nafal cavity or paffage, whether existing in the noStrils, or in the orifices of the commu- nicating ones. Cure. 1567. No fpeciality of cure feems to be indicated by mechanical (1561.) nofe-ob- ftruction (1566.). Ear-Obstruction. Appellations. Cophosis (732.). Deafness. Defnition. 1568. Obstruction (1560.) of the inter- * See Incision. 3 L 2ELEMENTS op 4 52 * See Injection. nal (tuba Euftachiana) or external pafTage of the ear (meatus auditorius externus). Cure. 1569. Mechanical (1561.) ear-obftruc- tion (1568.) can only be fuccefsfully re- moved by a furgeon well acquainted with the ftrudture of the organs concerned, by a proper ufe of a 1. Probe (fpecilla). 2. Matter injedted*. Gullet-obstruction, Appellations. Dysphagia. Dysphagy. Dejinition. 1570. Qbftrudtion (1560.} of the gullet (oefophagus), 1571. Mechanical (1561.) dyfphagy or gullet-obftrudlion (1570.) mod frequently refults from matters impacted during eat- > \ • n pSURGERY. 453 mg, which by contiguity affecting refpira- tion, often fuddenly extinguish life (25.). Cure. 1572. Extraction*, the curative indica- tion (1 s 6 2.), is indicated, and may be often effected by 1. A probang, or flexible probe, pro- perly conftruCted; 2. Oefophagotomy f, when the obftruCt- ing matter is in the upper portion of the gullet. Breath-Obstruction. Appellation, Obstructio tracheae. Definition, 1573. ObftruCtion (1560.) of the wind- pipe (trachea). Cure. 1574. The confequences of obftruCtion of the upper portion of the wmd-pipe may * See Extraction. f See Oesophacotomy.454 EL EM ENTS of often receive temporary alleviation, at lead, from Bronchotomy *. Gall-Obstruction. Appellations. Icterus (719.). Bile-swelling (1275.). Definition. 1575. Obftruflion (1560.) of the gall- du6ls (du6tus biliarii), Gut-Obstruction. Appellation. OBSTRUCTIO INTEST1NALIS. Definition. 1576. Obftrudtion (1560.) of the in- tefline (inteftinum) (1422.). * See Bronchotomy.SURGERY. 455 Cure. 1577. Is enterotomy * admiflible as a remedy in any cafe of gut-obftruction (1576.), whether organic or mechanical (1561.) ? Urine-Obstruction. Appellations. Ischury (714.)* Urokele (1278.). Definition. 1578. Obftruction (1560.) of the uri- nary paftages (viae urinae). Cure. 1579. Mechanical (1561.) urine-ob ft ruc- tion (1577.) is often created by the ftone (958.), the extraction of which is the ob- ject, almoft univerfally, of lithotomy *, * See Lithotomy. * See Enterotomy1.ELEMENTS oi 456 Womb-Obstruction, Definition. 1580. Obftrudtion (1560.) of the womb (uterus) or its paifage (vagina uteri). 1581. Mechanical (1561.) womb-ob- ftrudtion (1579.) moil frequently refults from the child (foetus), or after-birth (placenta, fecunclinae), at the time of par- turition (1582.) ; to remedy which is the foie objedt of obfletrical furgery or mid- wifery (obftetricium, ars obftetricia). Parturition. Appellations. Parturitio. Partus. Accouchment. Birth. Delivery. Labour. Child-bed. Child-bearing, In-lying. Travail.457 SURGERY,- Definition. 1582. The expullion of the ripe child and after-birth (ic8i.) from the womb (1580.). Labour-pain. Appellations. NlSUS PARTURITIONISi Labour throe. Throe. Definition. 1583. Convulfive (735.) Rate of the womb, often afliRed by a fimilar Rate of the abdominal and refpiratory mufcles, tending mechanically, or by compreRion* to promote delivery (1582.), DifinSlion. 1584. Parturition (1582.), according to facility, may be named 1. Ordinary: 2. Extraordinary. 3 M VOL. II.ELEMENTS or 45 8 Ordinary Parturition, Appellations, Common. Easy. Natural. Definition, 1585. Parturition (1582.), the child’s head prelenting or pointed to the orifice of the womb, and the tranfmilfion not uncommonly interrupted f. * The head of the child, efpecially in the earlier periods of exiftenee, bears a great proportion to its other parts in fize and folidity. The child, tlierefore, inclofed by veficular membranes, decidua, chorion, am. tiios (with the placenta they are called fecundinafy Varriere falx, fecundities, after-birth), to which it is connected by a vafcular rope, the umbilical chord, and floating in ferofity termed liquor arnnii, '■Maters, neceflarily affumes a fituation as to the womb accord- ing to the relative gravity of its parts, viz. the head undermofl:, or oppoled to the internal orifice, the mo- ther fuppofed to be in the handing attitude ; a cir. cumftance very conhanrly happening, and greatly ef. fential to eafy or natural parturition. The increafing fize of the child gradually difiending the womb, its neck proportionally Ihortened, is at laft abolilhed ; the internal orifice, become thin and l'ome- what dilated, permits the finger introduced by theSURGERY. 459 l 1586. Ordinary parturition (1585.) can- not be considered as womb-obftruclion. It is a healthful a&ion, and requires no adiftance from art (1581.). vagina to perceive the membranes and contiguous head (a mode of inveftigarion peculiarly named touch- ing) • circumftances which, connected with a painful fenfation in the facral region, extending to the pubis, and aggravated at intervals, indicate inftant or ap- proaching parturition. By diltenfion chiefly the contradile power of the womb is roufed, which excites the co-operation of that of the refpiratory and abdominal mulcles, by whofe repeated and attoniiliingly forceful nifus or ex- ertions, named labour-pains or throes, the veficular diftended membranes are proportionally comprefled, and protruded through the internal orifice of the womb gradually dilated, fo as to form one common opening with that of the bafon : The child’s head en- tering its brim can be diftinguiflied through the cover- ing membranes by touchi ng; thefe at laff bunting, the liquor amnii is fuddenly effufed : Its crown di- rected downwards and forwards, elevating the exter- nal orifice and perineum in the form of a tumor, emerges from under the ofia pubis; the happy pre- Iude of parturition icon to be completed by the ex- pulfion of its other parts, and of the fecundities: a painful, foinetimes tedious, but fpontaneous procefs, in which the interference of art ought to be regarded as impertinence, not feldom hurtful, 3 M 2460 ELEMENTSop Extraordinary Parturition. Appellations. Dystocia, Atocia. Partus difftcilis. Difficult labour. Non-natural birth. Dejinition. 1587. Parturition (1582.), the trarxf-- miflion of the child uncommonly inter- rupted or painfully protra&ed *. t * Dystocia—Dolor uterinus in gravidis cum co- natibus parturitionis. Sauvagesius. Dystocia—Partus laborious, difficilis. Vogs- LIUS. Dystocia—Dolorifica, laboriofa ultra modum foe- tus exclufio, aut fecundinarum, vel penitus impollibilis. Sagarus. Dystocia—Partus difficilis dicitur, quando partus non intra breve et confuetum tempus unius aut ali- , quot horarum fponte fuccedit; fed ob certas caufa,s, quae impedimentum inferunt, jufto diutius remoratur, et fine auxilio aliorum vix vel prorfus non abfolvi po- . tefl. Graecis Avoroxicc appellatur. Heisterus. Partus difficilis—Si foetus propter ipfius in Utero fituin, nimiam magnitudinem, vel parturientis1588, Difficult parturition (1587.), constituting womb-obftru6tion (1580.), is a legitimate object of art (1581.) the falvation of mother and child is thence, in many inftances, only to be derived. DiJlinEiion. 1589. Difficult parturition (1587.) is diltinguiffied and named 1. Lingering: 2. Preternatural. deformitatem, aliudve impedimenfuru, naturaliter ex- pelli nequeat, Partus dijfic'dis dici polfir. \ Species of Dyftocia, according to Sauvages, are, Dyjlociae ex parte matrix, 1. Dyftocia a debilitate. Mauriceau. 2. Dyftocia a c-olica. Ejufdem. 3. Dyftocia a pathemate. Ejufdem. 4. Dyftocia ab anguftia. Ejufdem. 5. Dyftocia ab hyfteroloxia. Dyjlociae culpa foetus. 6. Dyftocia a mole foetus. Mauriceau. 7. Dyftocia a foetu tnortuo- jfunder i. 8. Dyftocia a foetus fitu. Mauriceau. Accouchemens centre nature. 9. Dyftocia a fecundinis elapfis. Ejufdem. 10. Dyftocia a mola. Ejufdem. Atocia—Partqs difficillimus, qui fine arte pror- fus abfolvi non poteft. Vogelius.462 ELEMENTS op Lingering Parturition. Appellations. Laborious. Non-natural. Definition. 1590. Difficult parturition (1587.), the child’s head prefented or oppofed to the orifice of the womb. Caufes. 1591. It is exceedingly important to detect the caufes (55.) producing linger- ing parturition (1590.), becaufe, till this is effected, a juft practice cannot be inftituted. The principal ones are, On the part of the mother, j. Narrow bafon (1557.) : 2. Rigidity : 3. Hyfteroloxy (1419.): 4. Defetft of throe (1583.) : On the part of the child, 5. Deformity : 6. Shortening of the umbilical chord.SURGERY. 4 6$ i. Narrow bafon. Symptoms. 1592. Symptomsof narrow bafon (1591.) creating womb-obftruction (1580.) are, 1. The child’s head remaining uncom- monly long at the brim of the bafon, not- withftanding a fucceflion of throes (1583.) fufficiently coercive, and full dilatation of the internal orifice • 2. Tumefaction (772.) of the integu- ments of the child’s head, and overlapping of the bones of the fkull. 1593. Abfolute certainty of the exig- ence of narrow bafon (1592.), and even of its degree, is acquired by menfuration ef- fected by 1. The hand : 2. A graduated probe * : 3. A fpecial pelvimeter f. 1594. The fhorteft diameter of the bar fon, at its brim, being three inches, expe- * I have marked a fcale of inches, See. on the fe- male cathether for this purpofe. f See M. Coutouly’s Drawing and Dfcript'um. of a Pelvimeter.464 ELEMENTS of rience fliews to be the leaft dimenfion ca- pable to tranfmit the child’s head, or to permit parturition (1582.) *. * The proper adult female bafon, at its brim, may- be regarded as an ellipfis, or oval figure, whofe longeft diameter, five inches and one quarter, extends betwixt the olfa iliQm ; its fhorteft one, four inches and one quarter, ftretches betwixt the facrum and fymphyfis of the ofia pubis j the diftance of the extre- mity of the os coccygis and junfture of the ofia pubis is nearly five inches, that of the tubera ifchiorum from one another nearly four inches : Behind, where the bafon is very confiderably concave, its depth is fix inches ; at its Tides, four inches ; at its fore part, two inches. A fruall variation of thefe dimenfions may exift without materially affedling parturition. A line parallel to and in the axis of the pelvis nearly pafles through the anus. The child’s head refembles an oblong fpheroid, whofe circumference is nearly fifteen inches; its longeft axis, extending from finciput to occiput, five inches; its Ihorteft one, from ear to ear, four inches. Thefe dimenfions vary like thofe of the cavity of the pelvis : The unoflified jun&ure of its bones renders it capable ofTuffering with impunity furprifmg altera- tion of form, and of accommodating itfelf to the fuc of the bafon. It is evident, from confidering the refpettive di- menfions of the child’s head and bafon, that the for- mer can only enter the brim of the latter, and be tranfmitted by a coincidence of their longeft axis arid longeft diameter. 1 he point at which the neck, joins ihe head, and the manner of the articulation, ne-SURGERY. 465 Practice. 1 • 1595. The degree of narrow bafon (1592.) afcertained to be compatible with the progrefs of parturition (1582.), at- tempts may be made, in the mofi; gentle and cautions manner, to promote the tranf- milhon of the child by the influence of 1. The hand : 2. The lever (vetflis) : This may be re- garded as an artificial hand, and to which the mother’s parts are never to afford re- fiftence as a fulcrum. 3. The forceps: Thefe may be confidered as a pair of artificial hands. Their action is moft beneficial when the child’s face is lodged in the concavity of the facral bone (os facrum) f. ceflarily determines its vertex to point obliquely and laterally downwards after entering the pelvis; this is perceived by touching, i heir relative form occa- fions the vertex to be turned forward, and the face confequently lodged in the facral concavity; the ver- tex then emerges from the os externum, as already defcribed. Le diametre qui traverfe la tete d’un enfant a fa fiaifiance a pour le moins trots pouces tin quart. Re* c here he s fur la Section du Symphyfe du Pubis, par M. Alphonse Dtj Roi, &c. p. 33. t To the Forceps firft invented by Chamberlain^ Vol. II. 3 N466 ELEMENTS of 1596. The degree of narrow bafon (1592.) afcertained to be incapable of ad- mitting the tranfmiffion of the child, womb-obftru6tion (1580.) may be dimi- nifhed and removed by 1. The feparation of the fhare-bones (1416.) from one another, imparting aug- mentation to the bafon * : 2. The Caefarian fedtion, or forming a chirurgic opening through the abdominal containing parts and womb, by which the child and after-birth may be extract- ed * : 1 , 3. Embryotomy, or diminifhing the volume of the child, particularly of its j[iead, by evacuating the brain 1597. Of the fpecified expedients (1596.) for relieving womb-oblfruction (1580.), it is obvious, that the fil'd and fecond aim at the prefervation of mother and child, and the third at that of the mother only. and publifhed by Chapman, and which have fufFered a variety of modification, D. Leak has added a third blade, which he fuppofes in fome cafes may extend their utility. * See Extraction.SURGERY. 467 2. Rigidity. Symptoms. 1598. Rigidity of the mother’s parts (1591.), particularly of the internal orifice, caufing lingering parturition (1590.), is difcovered by 1. The mother’s being paft the meridian of life, and never having been before in child-bed: 2. The comparatively rcfiftent and un- dilated condition of the parts, although the urgency of the throes (1583.) have been great and continued : 3. The abfence of other caufes. Practice. 1599. Rigidity (1598.) is a caufe of lingering parturition (1590.) much lefs formidable than narrow bafon (1592 ), and generally is furmountable by protra<fl- ed diftenfion, the organs concerned being conftituted to yield gradually, a change that may perhaps be promoted by 1. Blood-letting (116.), when the mother is ftrong and plethoric. 2. Anodynes (119.) in proper form lo- cally applied. 3 N 2468 ELEMENTS of 3. Emollients (122.), particularly fat oil, pure and bland, topically administered. 1600. The fpecified expedients (1599-) adopted feparately, or in combination, with due perfeverance, are always likely to fu- pcrfede the harfh neceflity of inciSion an inaufpicious practice, 3. Hvjleroloxy, Symptoms. 1601. Structure and experience com- bine to manifeft, that feldom can, or does, hyfteroloxy (1591.), an obvious affedtion, create lingering birth (1590.), notwith- Standing the oppohte fentiments of fomq obfervers f. Practice. 1602. The method of cure of hyStero- Joxy has been taken notice of (1357.)* 4. Defehl of Throe. Symptoms. 1603. A defedt of labour-pain (1583.] is the Slightest of the enumerated cauSes * See Smel lie’s Cafes. f See Deventer’s Works.SURGERY. 469 of lingering birth (1590.). Its exigence is felf-evident. Practice. 160For the molt part, defeat of throe (1603.) fpontaneoully ceafes : arihng from inanition and weaknefs, benefit will be derived from a due ufe of 1. Nutrients (103.); 2. Cordials (120.). 3. Deformity of the Child. Symptoms. 1605. The principal deformity of the child giving lingering labour (1590.) is head-hydrokele (1204, 1293.). Its exig- ence is eafily detected, the other caufes be- ing abfent (1591.). <* Practice. 1606. Womb-obftrudtion (1580.) de- pending on head-hydrokele (1204.) is re- moved by executing the method of cure (1295.) of that affedtion (28.). Pre- fuming, in the firft inftance, that it may be external (1293.), and forming an open- ing in the. integuments only, is a fafe and470 ELEMENTS of humane experiment, and may fometimes preferve life. 6. Shortening of the Umbilical Chord. / Symptoms. 1607. Shortening of the umbilical chord refults from its being accidentally twilled about the child’s neck. It is de- tected, the other caufes being abfent, by the child’s head arrived near to the external orifice buffering much retradlion in the intervals of the throes (1583.). PraElice. 1608. As foon as the child’s head e- merges from the external orifice, the im- pediment to parturition (1582.), refulting from the twilling of the umbilical chord, is removed by dividing it in the moll ac- ceffible point. Combination. 1609. A combination of the fpecified caufes of lingering parturition (1590.) does not create much diverfity of pradice.SURGERY. 47 * Preternatural Parturition. Definition. 1610. Difficult parturition (1587.), the child’s head not prefented or oppofed to the internal orifice of the womb. 1611. The oval form of the child, its limbs contradled, and of the cavity of the womb, feldom permits the former to afiume a polition tranfverfe to the latter. Ac- cordingly, when the head is not prefented to the internal orifice, the fuperior parts of the trunk, an arm, a fhoulder, or the in- ferior ones, a leg or breech, are oppofed to it. Symptoms. 1612. A knowledge of the exiftence of preternatural parturition (1610.), and in- formation as to the part of the child pre- fenting, is acquired by, 1. Touching: 2. Infpe<5tion, fometimes. Practice. 1613. Experience {hews, that parturi- tion (1582.) may happily be accomplished472 ELEMENTS ot without art, notwithflanding the inferior parts (1611.) of the trunk of the child are prefented to the internal orifice. The legs and arms reflected along the trunk and head increafing the impaddion (1580.), may- be extradited in fucceflion, by guiding the feet gently to the pofterior part of the ex- ternal orifice (perinaeum), when the knees are apparent at its anterior part; and the hands in the fame way as foon as the eh bows can be reached by the forefingers of the furgeon. 1614. Structure affords an infuperable impediment to tranfmiffion of the child through the bafon, when the fuperior parts of the trunk are prefented to the internal orifice, till its pobtion be changed by turning. Turning. •Definition. 1615. Altering the pofition of the child in the womb, in order to facilitate partu- rition (1582.), or fubftituting the feet or legs for the fuperior parts of the trunk.SURGERY; 473 Manner. 16 r 6. The direction of the axis of the bafon and womb (with which the hand or instruments introduced ought to coincide) demonstrates the neceSTary attitude of the mother during turning (1615.) to be lying on her Side, or reSting on her knees and elbows. The hand befmeared with bland oil, and formed like a cone, in the mod: delicate and cautious manner carried in- to the cavity of the womb, feizes one or both of the feet of the child (carefully di- stinguishing thefe from the hands), and with appropriated exertion guides them in- to the paSfage (1580.), and judicioully co-- operates with the throes (1583.) till partu- rition (1582.) be completed, uniefs it is difcovercd that the face of the child is to- wards the belly of the mother ; a circum- itance that indicates the propriety of turn- ing the child in the axis of the baS'on, fo as to give the face an oppohte poSicion, by which it falls into the concavity of the fa- cral bone, and facilitates the tranlmiSlion. 1617. T he umbilical chord falling down before the child's head into the pafTage, Vol. 11. 3 oELEMENTS of 474 and the pufhing of it upwards not practi- cable, ought juftly to be deemed a preter- natural polition demanding turning (161 <p), becaufe it is liable to compreffion, which may prove fatal to the child. A Plurality of Children. 1618. Two or more children in the womb at one time is an accident that does not afford much embarraffment of prac- tice, which ought to be accommodated, as taught, to the circumftances of each. Expulfion of the After-birth. 1619. Till the umbilical chord is de- ft roved, the after-birth (1581.) is juftly re- garded as a part of the child. Its expul- lion is effected by the fame energy that ex- pelled the child (1583.), and, in general, no aftiftance is required. If uncommon detention (deuteria) or flooding (246.) make artifice neceffary, the traCtion ought to be gentle, and in a juft direction. Rudenefs may induce inverfion (1409.), or other fatal injury. 1620. Organic (1561.) womb-obftruc- tion (1580.) refiding in its tubes (tubae475 SURGERY. fallopia) or elfewhere, occafioning fle- rility (715*) and other morbid effects, re- quire diligent inve(ligation. Cataract. Appellations. Suffusio. Glaucosis. Hippoc. Hypochysis. Galeni. Glaucoma. Gutta opaca. Cataracte. Definition. 1621. Obftruclion (1560.) of the paf- fage of the light to the eye (retina), arifing from obvious opacity of the cryllalline humour (lens cryftallina) or its capiule, or of both *. * Cataracta—Vifus debilitas ob maculam opa- cam pone pupillam. Sauvagf.sius. Cataracta—Vifus privatio cum vitio obferva- bili. Linnaeus. Cataracta—Caecitas cum obfcurata lentc retro pupillam confpicua. Vogelius* 3 O 247$ “ ELEMENTS of Diagnojlic. 1622. Cataradf (162J.) is generally of a gray pearl-like or ftraw colour: What Cataract A—Vifus debilitas vel abolitio ob ma- culam opacam poft pupillam pofitam, feu opacitatem lentis cryitallinae. Sagarus. Suffusto—Graecis \i7royvci; vel l)7r'o^yya, aliis ca- taratta, dicitur, fi vel lens xfu<TTa\MiAnc, vel ejus velar menta, tunica qua includitur ca\a$>;c, qua vitrei fin us, cui lens infidit, cingitur, quas naturaliter perlucentes efTe oportet, opacae faftae fe luci oppo- nunt, et hanc per fui medium non tranfmittunt. Plat- HERUS. Glaucoma cognofcitur colore fubcoeruleo, volu- mine lentis minore, opacitate, duritie. Sedes in humo- re vitreo. Sagarus. Glaucoma—Since glaucoma is no other difeafe than cataradl, the diftinclion of thefe two diftempers muff at once be difcarded as merely imaginary. Sharp. Glaucome—Alteration de cryftallin, que devient ppaque, et de couleur azure'e, ou de verd de mer, en- fuite grisacre ou blanchatre. Villars. Glaucoma—Opacitas humoris vitrei. Plenck. pPECiES of Catara&a, according to Sauvages, are, j. Catara&a vera Maitre-jan. Glaucoma. Woolhoulii,SURGERY. 477 fome have called black cataradl is probably blindnefs (730.) *. A difcrimination may be made by attending to the Rate of the pupil, which is always dilated during the latter affe&ion. , 1623. Concurring arguments evince, that, there is little caufe to imagine, that, the cryRalline humour incurring the ca- taraclous Rate (1621.) neceRarily fuffers a diRolution of its healthful confiRence (which indeed fometimes happens : It is then named milky), and thereafter gradu- ally becomes hard. This idea feems to have been generally entertained, and pro- CafaraEla virgata. St Yves. CataraEla purulent a. Maitre jan. Cataracla argyrias. , Woolhoylii. Cataract a clavata. Ejufdem. Cataracla luxata. Maitre-jan. CataraEla a fynchyfi. Mauchart. CataraEla antiglaucoma. Maitre jan. 3. Cataracla glaucoma. Ejufdem. 4. Cataracla membranofa. IEoolhouf i. 5. Catarafla fecundaria. Hein. * The whole cryftalline is fometimes diflolml into q fluid dill preferving its tranfparency. This kind of alteration, as I take it, forms what is by fome called one fpecies of Gutta Serena, by others Black Cataract. Pott.478 ELEMENTS of bably has given occafion to denominate it accordingly ripe and unripe *. Cure. 1624. Becaufe cataraCt (1621.) obfcnres vifion by obftruCting the progrefs of the rays of light to the optic nerve (retina), furgery (96.) deflroys its living connection with the fyftem, and retires it from the axis of the eye-ball f. 1625. Is there any affinity between ca- taraCt (1621.) when fluid and wen, or be- tween it when folid and fcirrhofity (1312.)? Is it a faCt that cataraCl dilplaced fuflers gradual folution in, the aqueous humour and abforption ? Obliteration of the Pupil. Appellation. Synizesis. * See Pott’s Obfervations on CatarciEl. See Sharp’s Operations of Surgery—Couching. f See Couching and Extraction.SURGERY. 479 Definition. 1626. Obftrudtion of the pupil by con- cretion. Cure. 1627. Obliteration of the pupil by con- cretion (1626.) may indicate incifion cau- tioully conducted fo as to render the uvea pervious *. See Cutting of the Iris,ELEMENTS O F S U R G E R r. CH1RURGICAL OPERATION. Operation. Operatio Chirurgica. 1628. Definition. ANY remarkable appli- Cation of chirurgic medicine (96.) *. * OpEitAtio Chirurgica—Studiofa folutio coni tinui ad aliquid eximendum, ut Lithotomia—Operatio teipfa eft vulnus ftudiofe et dextera manu Chirurgi faftum. SagarUs. Operatic Chirurgica—On doit entendre, par Operation de Chirurgie, une prudente et methodique application de la main fur le corps de l’homme, pour lui conferver, ou lui rendre la fante'. Dionis. Operatio Chirurgica—Artificialis manipulation cum vel fine inftrtlmentis, qua morbus aliquis curatur ; et vel manualis vel injlrumentalts eft. Plenck. VOL. II, 3 P482 ELEMENTS of 1629. Objctt.—Operation (1628.) prcr- pofes for its obje<5t the attainment of 1. Prefervation of life (25.) : 2. Reftoration of function : 3. Recovery of form Otherwife it is nugatory and cruel 16304 Mode.—Oftentation and hurry in operation (1628.) may create danger, and even induce death (26.) ; the fir ft always degrades the operator in the eftimation of the difcerning, the laft is in oppofition to the fpirit of the fcience, of which he can only be regarded as an unworthy retainer. Fejiina lente is an excellent maxim f. 1631. ModificatioJis.—Operation, (1628.) according to object(1629.) and circumftan- ces, admits of feveral modifications, which,. * Chirurgo omni fuae artis ufu, vitae partium quas curat utilitatis, et formae naturalis, confervationi fe- clulo confulendum eft. Celsus. ■f Je fuis perfuade, que le defir' d’acquerir cette faufTe gloire, que le public donne a lacelerite' d’un operateur, a fait perir plus des malades qu’aucune mauvaife manoeuvre. Pout a u Melange, de Chirurg► p_. 2QO.. M ASURGERY. 483 in all their variety, may be arranged un- der the following heads : 1. Deligation. 2. Amputation. 3. Incision. 4. Extraction. 5. Rectification. 6. Cauterization. 7. Introduction *. * The Operations of Surgery have been arranged under the fix following heads—a plan which does not •entirely coincide with the principles adopted in thefe Elements. 1. Synthesis—The-conjuniftion of divided parts. 2. Diaeresis—The divifion of parts morbidly or preternaturally concreted. 3. Exaeresis—The extirpation of parts morbid- ly affected. 4. Aphaeresis—The amputation of whole mem- bers or parts become difealed. 5. Diorthosis—1 he repolition of parts dif- placed. 6. Prosthesis—The fubftitution of artificial parts. KElSTERI Injlitut. Chirurg. M. Dionis affirms, that all the variety of Chirur- gical Operation may be reduced to four of the ipecitied heads. “ 1 outes les Operations de la Chirurgie fe reduif- fent fous quatre efpeces ; dont la premiere rejoint ce qui a ete fepare, et fe nomme Synthefe; la fecond di- vile les parties dont l’union eft contraire a la fante, et 3 P 2484 ELEMENTS OF I. DELIGATIOR Deligatio. J 632. Definition*—Operation (1628.) pro- ducing, 1. Compreflion, or 2. Retention. 1633. Forms.—The mofl noted forms of deligation (1632.) are, 1. Bandaging : 2. Suture. Bandage. Fafcia. Fillet. 1634. Definition.—A portion of flexible material, generally cloth or leather, calcu- lated for forming deligation (1632.). 1635. To bandage (1634.) are occasion- ally fubfervient celle-la s’appelle Diaerefe; la troifieme, qu’on a com- prife par le mot d'Exaerefe, ote ce qui eft etranger; et la quatrieme, qu’on appelle Projlhefe, adjoute ce qtri y manque.” Cours cl’Operations—Premise Demonjl ration.SURGERY. 485 1. Pledget (plumaceolum, pulvillus, glo- mus) formed of lint, rag, or other foft matter : 2. Comprefs (fplenium) formed of cloth, leather, &c. 3. Splint (ferula), confiding of rigid or redilent fubfiance,—pafleboard, leather, wood, 8cc. 4. Machine (ferramentum, machina) of various material and form, according to deflination. Bandaging. VinElura. Binding tip. 1636. Definition.—An accommodated and fcientific application of bandage (1634.) 1637. Varieties.—The principal varieties of bandage (1634.) are, t. Roller (fafeia circularis), which, ac- cording to the mode of application, form, &c. is named a. Tournequet (torculum) : b. Spiral (fafeia fpiralis repens): c. Figure 8 : d. Spica, which is fingle or double, fca~ pular or inguinal;486 ELEMENTS of e. Uniting (fafcia uniens): f, Six, 8tc. headed (fafcia fex, &c. capi- tum) : 2. Great head-bandage (capitium mag- niim) : 3. Triangular head-bandage (capitium triangulare) : 4. Eye-bandage (monoculus, binoculus). 5. Sling or ftirrup (funda, capiftrum). 6. Mafk : 7. Scapulary and napkin (fcapularis cum mantili) : 8. Scarf (mitella) : 9. T. Bandage (fafcia Heliodori) : 10. Trufs or fufpenfory (fi^fpenforia): 11. Stump-bandage : 12. Fradture-bandage. 1638. The i$fluence of many of the fpe- cified varieties (1637.) bandage is ex- cellently afforded by the nightcap, waift- coat and drawers. Suture. Sutura. Ligatio. Sewing. Ligature. 1Lying. Stitch.I SURGERY. 487 1639. Definition. Deligation (1632 ) pro- cured by flitch or ligature. 1640. DiHinftion. Suture is diftinguifh- ed into 1. Falfe, 2. True, Sicca, Omenta, Dry : . Bloody. The former, which is really bandage (1634.), is conflituted by ftraps propor- tionally flrong and numerous, paifed or tied over the repofed lips of wound (1441.), fupported by portions of cloth or leather properly fhaped, and glued or adhering to the adjoining furface. The latter, by threads, proportionally thick and flrong, transfixing the repofed lips of wound by means of a needle, generally a crooked one. According to mode, it is named, 1. Interrupted (futura nodofa), when it confifls of one or more detached Hitches at proportioned diftance, according to the extent and direction of wound (1441), and tied over its approximated edges immedi- ately, or over interpofed rag or lint: 2. Quilled (futura clavata), which dif- fers from the interrupted variety only in the circumflance of the extremities of the488 ELEMENTS of thread forming it being fixed on pieces of quill or .the like (clavi), placed on each fide of wound near its margin, inftead of be- ing tied over it: 3. Glovers (futura pellionum) : This confifts in a feries of connected or con- tinued ftitches forming a learn : 4. Twilled (futura tortilis), formed by regularly twilling a thread about one or more pins of gold or filver palfed tranfverfe- ly through the approximated edges of wound. 5. Styptic (futura llyptica): It confifts in inclofing a bleeding veftel in a Hitch generally formed by two femicircular mo- tions of a crooked needle. A hook (tena- culum) or artery-forceps are requifite to draw the veftel beyond the furface of wound, when none of the neighbouring parts are to be included. As no needle is thus neceftary, it is literally tying or ligature *. * This variety of Suture, from its being chiefly employed to reftrain haemorrhage, feems to merit the appellation ofJlyptic, and from its importance worthy to be ranked with the others. See Mr Aiken (an ingenious Surgeon of Warring- ton) his Treatife on the Ligature of Arteries.SURGERY. 489 1641. EjficEt.—Falfe is preferable to true future (1640.) as a retentive application to wound (1441.)j with a view to expe- dite cicatrization (1443.) ; the laft is al- moft conftantly and neceffarily unfuccefs- ful. A combination of both may often be effectually adopted. — * Gut-Suture. Enteroraphia. Etitcroraphy, 1642. Definition*—Suture (1639.) applied to be retentive of wound (1441.) of the inteftine. 1643. Mode.—Gut-future (1642.), an operation (1628.) rarely occurring, is rnoft properly effected by glovers flitch (1640.). A portion of the thread is left at each ex- tremity of the feam, to connect it to the neceffarily pre-exifting Wound (1441.) of the abdominal containing parts till con- cretion accede. When this organ is di- vided entirely, it is propofed to procure retention (1431.) by introducing the ex- tremity ot the fuperior portion a little Vol. II. 3490 ELEMENTS of way into the cavity of the inferior corre- fponding one, and applying two flitches of interrupted future (1640.). A paper tube lodged within the gut at the wound- ed part has been fuggefled as an afhfting. means *. Belly-Suture. Gafiroraphia. Gafiroraphy. 1644. Definition.—Suture (1639.) form- ed upon wound (1441.) of the abdominal- containing parts. 1645. Mode.—A combination of twill- ed and falfe future (1640.) is moil likely to prove fully retentive of wound (1441.)- of the belly. Navel-Tying. 1646. Definition.—Ligature (1639.) form- ed upon the umbilical chord at the time of parturition (1582.). * See PLENCK’s Cotnpend. Injiitut. Chirurg. p, 84.491 SURGERY, 1647. Mode.—The motion of the blood is fo vivid in the umbilical arteries of the new-born child as to require ligature (1639.) to prevent fatal haemorrhage (137.). A thread of proper thicknefs is fecurely tied around the umbilical chord, about two fingers breadth from the navel, beyond which it is divided by the feiffars. The adhering portion being caducous foon ihrinks. Aneurysm-Operation. 1648. Definition.—Ligature (1639.) form- ed upon an artery (20.), above and below aneuryfm (1159.). 1649. Mode.—Previous to aneuryfm- operation (1648.) the difeafed artery is carefully feparated by dilfetttion from the contiguous parts. It has been ingenioufly propofed to preferve it pervious in the cafe of fpurious aneuryfm{i 169.)by twitt- ed future (1640.) *, * Mr Lambert, an eminent furgeon in New- caftle, propofed and attempted this praftice. 3492 ELEMENTS o* Cross-Stitch. Crucial Suture. 1650. Definition.—Suture (1639.) of the interrupted kind (1640.) formed upon a, ftump (truncus) with a view to prevent retraction of the integuments *, Royal Stitch. Pun Slum aureum, Sutura regia. 1651. Definition.—Suture (1639.) infti- tuted to produce the radical cure of rup-» ture (1346.) f. * See Sharp’s furgery amputation. f See Parey’s opera chirurgie, p. 242. See Pott’s works, vol. ii. p. 17S'SURGERY. 493 II. AMPUTATION. Excifio. Amputatio. Excifton• Cuttlng~off. 1652. Definition.—Deftruction of the vi- tal connection of a part or member with the fyftem to which it belongs. 1653. Principles.—A fuccefsful inftitu- tion of amputation (1652,) demands ulti- mate attention to the point or line in which it is formed in refpedt to 1. Difeafe (28.) indicating it. 2. Future function. 3. Form of the fedtion or wound (1441). And to 4. Preventing haemorrhage (137.) du- ring performance. 1654. —1. Difeafe indicating amputation (1652.)—The complete removal of morbid parts is efiential to amputation (1652.), which proves beneficial by fubftituting wound (1441.): it is therefore to be mofl feduloufly fiudied.494 ELEMENTS of 1655. 2.—FimEl ion after amputation (1652.) —Every point and organ of the fyftem (23.) manifeftly contributing to general function, an encroachment by amputation (1652.) on the found ftrudlure (15-) in- fers wanton and unjuftifiable injury. The ordinary points, in which the extremities are amputated, are, a little above the wrift, elbow, ankle, and knee, and below the el- bow and knee. The diftance may be va- ried according to circumftances: preferving the infertion of the mufcles extending and bending the fore arm and leg is a ufeful meafure, becaufe it prevents derangement that might otherwife enfue. 1656. Solid argument is wanting to evince the impropriety of performing am- putation at or in a joint: fome recent ex- periments have been made refpe&ing this important point, in the fhoulder and hip ones *. * See Mr White’s Cafes in Surgery, p. 57. Mr Kerr, Surgeon of Northampton hofpital, amputated the leg of a girl, in the hip-joint: She died in twelve days ; but this event feems juftly im- putable to other catifes. See Medical Comment* vol. v.SURGERY. 495: 1657.—3. Form of the amputative 'wound (1652)—Cicatrization (1443.), being the concretion of the wounded integuments over the fubjacent parts, is expeditious in proportion to their prefervation ; a circum- ftance as much as poffible to be confulted, particularly by due attention to their con- tractility; becaufe experience has manifeft- ed, fometimes fatally, that an oppohte con- duct creates a pointed or pyramidal flump- in every refpect injurious. Hence the pro- priety of a double *, or rather triple, but That amputation in the joint of the hip is not an impracticable operation (although it be a dreadful one) I very well know. I cannot fay that I have ever done it, but I have feen it done, and am very fure i {hall never do it, unlefs it be on the dead body. The parallel that is drawn between this operation and that in the joint of the Ihoulder will not hold. Pott’s Works, vol. iii. p. 41a. * Cheselden has the honour of reviving the ufe of Double Incifion of the foft parts in Amputation ; a rational praftice, not obfcurely taught by Celsus. “ Inter fanam et vitiatam partem incidenda fcalpello caro ufque ad os ; reducenda ab ea fana caro, et circa os fubfecanda eft, ut ea quoque parte aliquid oflis nu- detur; dein id ferrula praecidendum quam proxime fanae carni etiacn inhaerenti. Cutis, fub ejufmodi cu» ratione, laxa efle debet, ut quam maxirne os undique contegatur,” whofe fentiment feems not to be gene* rally underftood.496 EL EM ENTS of more properly tripartite fedlion of the component parts of a limb refpetflively. Flap-Amputation. Amputation a lambeaux. 1658. Definition.—Amputation (165 2.) in which a projecting portion or flap of the foft parts is preferved, generally one on each fide *. 1659. Mode.—So important have the ad-* vantages derivable from a proper form (165 7.) of amputative wound appeared, that flap-amputation (1658.) had been devifed, andlikewife crucial flitches (1650.); prac-^ ticesjuftly fuperfeded by the tripartite fecfli- ©n (1657.), becaufe more of the foft parts can * It appears that the Flap-mode of Amputation was fuggefled by Lowdham, an Englifh furgeon, afterwards improved by M. M. Verduin, Sabou- rtn, Vermale, La Faye, O’Halloran: This laflr recommends poflponing the application of the flaps till fuppuration be eAablifhed, as a grand improvement. See Memoirs de l’ Academie Roy ale de Chirurgie, tom. ii- P* 243. M. O’Hallo RAM’s Complete Treatife on Gangrene and Sphacelus, •with a New Mode of Amputation.497 SURGERY. be pteferved by it, in every point of the circumference of the wound (1441.), than by the flap-method, at its oppofite fides. • / > 1660. Preventing haemorrhage during amputation (1652.).—-The motion of the blood in the limb the fubjeft of ampu- tation (1652.), and confequently hae- morrhage (137.) during performance, is effectually prevented by the application of tournequet (1637.) ProPer ftrudbure : A practice, however fimple, that fatally for many ages eluded the invention of fur- geons *i j c 1661. Mode.—Amputation (1652.) of a limb is accomplifhed by a feclion nearly tranfverfe of 1. The integuments and fubjacent cel- lular fubftance, which is duly retracl- * Sed (Excifio) cum fcimmo penculo fit ; nam fae- pius ipfo opere, vel proftifione fanguinls, vel auiriii de- fe&ione, aegri moriunrur. Celsus. M. MoitEL, during the liege of Benfanfah, in'the 1674, is faid to have been the firft who employed ihe tournequete. By a fitnple addition I have improved the common tournequet, fo as to render it preferable to that na- med Petit’s, or any other. n V 3 R V OL. 11.498 ELEMENTS of ed, after proportional diffe&ion from the mufcles : 2u The mufcular fubdance, clofely to the integuments, properly drawn back and prate died: 3. The bone clofely to the mufcular fubftance duly retraced, along with the integuments. 1662. Injlrumaits.—The fe&ion of the foft parts in amputation (1652.) is perform- ed by a circular movement of a large ftraight knife, formerly varioufly falci- form (culter amputatorius)', and that of the bone by a dextrous motion of a ftraight faw of due iize. The retraction of the in- teguments during the fection of the muf- cular parts is bed accomplifhed by the hands of the affiftant; and that of thefe and the mufcles, during the fawing of the bone together, by.a metal perforated plate, from office named rctraftor. 1.663. From the premifed defcription of amputation (1652.)* it is apparent, that, if is intended to obtain a fe&ion of the inte- guments in a point conliderably lower than- that of the mufcles, and a feCtion ofSURGERY. 499 ihefe laft in one lower than that of the bone, the limb confidered in a perpendicular at- titude. In due proportion confifts the excellence of the performance; a circum- ftance which determines the place of inci- iion of ail of them refpedtively. 1664. The wound formed by amputa- tion (1652.), as well in its haemorrhagic as inflamed condition (1444.) is created and conduced to healing (1443.) as already taught (1446.). Deligation (1632,) not like- ly to augment retradlion of the parts is to be adopted. Shoulder-Amputation. 1665. Dcjinition.—Amputation (1652.) inftituted in the fhouldcr-joint. 1666. Speciality.—The chief fpeciality * of amputation (1652.) in the fhoulder- joint confifls in the difficulty of prevent- ing haemorrhage during performance: it refults from the form of the parts. This may- be furmounted by * See Bromfield’s Chirurgical Obfervatkns, vol.i. p. 247. 3 R 2500 EL EM ENTS of 1. Compreffmg the principal artery as it palTes over the firft rib, by the fingers, or by a fpecial tournequet (1636.) : 2. Tying (1639.) the artery alone in the arm-pit previously, or by aneuryfm-opera- tion (1684.) : 3. Tying (1639.) the artery temporarily along with a parcel of the adjacent parts, without the ufe of the knife; Hip-Amfutation. 1667. Definition. —Amputation (165 2.) inftituted in the hip-joint. 1668. Speciality.—Like amputation in the fhoulder-joint, that in the hip one de- mands little deviation from the explained principles (1653.). The complex proce- dure that has been inculcated by fome feems to be unnecelfary. The chief fpe- ciality confifts in preventing haemorrhage (137.). The crural artery, as it paffes over the edge of the bafon (pelvis), ad- mits of full compreflion from tournequet (16^7.) invefting the body.5oi SURGERY. Thigh-Amputation. i Amputatio fiemoris. 1669. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) performed in the thigh. 1670. Speciality.—The mufcular fub- ftance difpoled along the thigh-bone is lefs attached to it pofteriorly than anteri- orly, divided in atranfverfe line that upon its back part will luffer greateft retraction, a circumltance which fuggelts a propor- tional obliquity in the direction of the in- cihon. Arm-amputation. Amputatio humeri. 1671. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) performed in the arm. 1672. Arm-amputation (1671.) is very analogous to thigh-amputation (1669.). Leg-Amputation. Amputatio tibiae.EL EM ENTS of 5°2 1673. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) performed in the leg. 1674. Speciality.—Obliquity of feclion of the foft parts, proportioned to their difpolition in the calf, and dividing the interolfeous fubftance, which is inacceffible to the amputation knife, by a two-edged one named catlin (culter anceps) are the chief fpecialities of leg-amputation (1673.). Fore-arm Amputation. Amputatio cubiti. 1675. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) performed in the fore-arm. 1676. Speciality.—Fore-arm amputation has the fame fpeciality with leg-amputa- tion (1673.). Uvul’ Amputation. Amputatio uvulae. 1677. Definition.—Amputation (1652.} removing the pap of the throat (uvula).SURGERY. 503 1678. Mode.—UvuP amputation (1677.) is accomplifhable by 1. Incifion effe&ed by the knife or feif- fars : 2. Compreffion by ligature. This is procurable by the affiftance of Hilda- nus’s ring. Tonsil-Extirpation. Amputatio amygdale. 1679. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing a tonfil (amygdala). 1680. Mode.—Tonfil-extirpation (1680.) is effected by the fame means with uvul amputation (1677.). Eye-Extirpation. Excifio bulbi cancrofiu 1681. Definition.—Amputation (1652.} removing an eye-ball. 1682. Mode.—When the eye-ball only is difeafed, the eye-lids may be preferved, and this deformity be much alleviated.ELEMENTS of 504 1683. bijlrumcnts.—The knife and fcif- fars poffefling a proportional lateral cur-* vature are indifpenfable inftruments of eye-extirpation (1681.). Breast-Amputation. Extirpatio mammae. 1684. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing a breaft (mamma). 1685. Mode.—-When the integuments are not morbid, their dextrous prefer vation greatly expedites the healing of the wound (1441.) after breaft-amputation (1684.). The incihon of the integuments of the under part of the breaft may be formed before that of the upper one, otherwife the blood obfeures the progrefs of the knife. Amputation (1652.) of the Axillary Glands. 1686. The axillary glands are often dif- eafed at the fame time with thofe of the breaft, and jointly demand excifion (1652.)*SURGERY. 505 which may be attained through the wound (1441.) formed by bread-amputation (1684.), or another made in the arm-pit itfelf. The proximity of large branches of the vafcular and nervous fyftem juftly dilates due caution in the management of the knife. dividing die yard (penis). 1688. Mode.—Yard-amputation (1687.) tnay be effected by 1. Se<5tion, proportional (1657.) anc^ confecutive as to its integuments and ca- vernous part; or fimultaneous as to both: 2. Compreffion from ligature (1639.), inducing mortification (788.). Yard-Amputation. Amputatio penis. ) 1687. Definition.—Amputation Castration, Cafiratio. Emafculatio. VOL. II.1689* Definition.—Amputation (1652.)' removing a teflicle (teftis). t 1690. Mode.—A linear or longitudinal fedtion of the integuments (fuppofing them not to be tainted) in the courle of the fpermatic cord, a tranfverfe one of this cord itfelf, and of the cellular matter con- necting the vaginal coat to the external parts, an eafy talk, conftitutes caftration (1689.). The fpermatic cord and artery may, in the mean time, be comprelfed * 1. The fingers of an afiiftant: 2. Ligature : and, finally, the fpermatic artery may be fhut by 1. Suture (1639.) involving the fperma- tic cord altogether : 2. Tying (1639.) affecting the artery only. Nymphotomy. Nymphotomici. ' 1691. Definition.—Amputation (165 2.) removing a nympha.Cataract-Amputation. Extraction Defer ejfion Couching 1692. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing the cryftalline humour of the eye become cataradtous (1621.). 1693. Mode.—The cataract (1621.) de- tached and remaining within the eye-ball is faid to be deprefled or couched j de- tached and expelled, it is faid to be ex- tradted.. The £rft change is accomplifhed by a needle-like inftrument pufhed through the coats of the-ball behind the uvea into the pofterior chamber, and cautiouily car- ried into contadt with the cataradh The laft is effected through an incifive opening of the cornea, parallel to and at its junc- tion with the fclerotis, equalling half its circumference, and of the capfule of the cataradt, which is then by gentle and dex- trous prelfure and artifice extracted. De- ftroying the capfule of the vitreous hu- mour, and allowing part of this to be ef- fufed, is a misfortune often deftrudtive of the eye. of the CataraCt.508 .ELEMENTS o.r 1694. Injiruments.—Depreffion of cata- ract (1621.) is performed by a fmall perfo- rating inftrument named couching needle; and extraction of it by a fmall knife, while the rolling of the eye is prevented by an eye-holder (fpeculum oculi), or the fingers of an afhftant*. 1695. May extraction (1692.) of cata- ract (1621.) be effected through an open- ing behind the uvea ? Tooth-drawing. Evulfio dcntis. 'Tooth-extraBion. Luxating. 1696. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing a tooth. 1697. Mode.—A line parallel to and palling through the axis of the tooth to he * I have lately devifed new inftruments for eflett- iug the extraction of the cataract, with the def;gn principally of fuperfeding the ufe of the fpeculum oculi (which I have likewife endeavoured to improve), the prefiure of which not rarely has deftroyed the eye; and of obtaining a more accurate feCtion of its Cornea, which repeated experiments on the dead bo* dy demonllrate to be productive of the defired eficCt.SURGERY. 509 amputated (1652.), the ftru&ure (15.) de- monilrates to be the belt dire&ion in which it can be moved for that purpofe. This however is not always pra6licable, on account of native form, or difeafe (26.). It becomes therefore neceffary to incline it fomewhat laterally, either towards the ca- vity of the mouth, or in an oppofite direc- tion : Multiplied experiments have evin- ced, that, a cautious motion of it in both is a fafe practice. 1698. Inflrumejits.—Numerous inftru- ments have been invented for tooth-ampu- tation (1696.), named Pelicanus, Pes Capri, 8cc. Of thefe, the hook and lever, com- monly called the key-inftrument (clavis Anglicana), is the moll generally appli- cable and powerful, and therefore moft commonly employed : Unlefs, however, it be very well accommodated as. to fize, pro- perly and dextroufly managed, it moves the tooth in a very unfavourable direc- tion f. f I have invented feveral tooth-extraitors, with a view to attain, as much as mechanifm can afford, the advantages of proper direction in tooth-amputation, while the gum and focket are protected as fully asELEMENTS of 51Q 1699. A decayed or rotten (1519.) tooth, named flump, is mofl commodioufly and fafely difplaced (1697.) by fame me- thod and inflruments enumerated for the drawing of an entire one : A pointed lever or punch and forceps will be additionally ufeful. Lipom-Amputation. Amputatio Lipomatis. 1700. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing lipom (13250* 1701. Mode. — Preferving the integu- ments, which in general are not difeafed, by dextrous diffe&ion, greatly abridges the time of healing (1443.) of the wound (1441.) confequent to amputation of lipom (1700.) Polype-Amputation. Extirpatio Polypi. may be. They cannot be verbally defcribed. A de- (cription of fome of them has been publifhed in EJfays and Cafes in Surgery.SURGERY. 5« 1702. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) •f polype (1328.). 1703. Mode.—It has already been re- marked, that the molt common mode of polype-amputation (1702.) is ligature (1639-)• • * * 1704. Injlrumcnts.—A double tube, in which a piece of gold or lilver wire is lodged, inftead of a thread, to inclofe and comprefs the peduncle of polype, is the beft inftrument for forming ligature (1639.) f. Peculiar forceps are invented for its eradication (1309.). Wart-Amputation. 1705. Definition.—Amputation (1652.) removing wart (1340.). f M. Lev ret feems to have been the author of the double tube for effecting the ligature of polype. See Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery. Sciflars with probe points, or peculiarly concealed in a cafe, conftitute an inllrument that may be fuc- cefsfully employed for the excifion of polype in fome flotations./ 5i2 ELEMENTS ot III. INCISION. \ Incifio. Paracentefs♦ Perforation. Puncture. Tapping. Piercing. Wounding. 1706. Defnition.—The formation of a chirurgic opening or divifion by the knife in any point of the animal body. 1707. Varieties.—Incifion (1706.) admits numerous varieties, which deferve to be enumerated and confidered : Many of them are of difficult and delicate execution, and have a powerful influence as remedies Blood-letting. Emifio fanguinis. Bleeding. 1708. Defnition.—Incifion (1706.) form- ed in any point of the vafcular fyftem,surgery. 513 with a view to the evacuation of blood (22.). • 1^09. Dijlindtion.—According to place and manner, blood-letting (1708-.) is na- med 1. Phlebotomy : 2. Arteriotomy : 3. Scarification. Phlebotomy. Phlebotomia. VenaefeBio. Phlebotomie. Venaeftclion. 1710. Definition.—Blood-letting (1708.) performed in a vein (22.). 1711. Principles.—A fuccefsful execu- tion of phlebotomy (1710.) refults from mature attention to 1. Selection of a vein (22.). 2. Method of diftenfion, and its degree* 3. Inftrument. 4. Size 5. Direction Vol. II. 3 T ■i of wound.ELEMENTS o? .5*4 6. Mode. 7. Deligation (1632.). 8. Accidents. j* ^ ' \0 _ f\ ^ 1712. 1. Sclctimi of a vein.—Anatomy (16.) regulates the choice of a vein for phle- botomy (x 71 r.). The external jugular veins, thofe fituated at the bending of the arm, exterior to the tendon of the biceps mufcle, andupon the upper part of the foot, and near the ankle, being confiderably re- mote from, the larger branches of the arterial and nervous fyftems, are commonly feled:- ed for the fubjedlof venaefedtion (1710.). Dexterity joined with caution may fafely perform it in any fituation of vein, f. 1713 . 2; Method of diflenfion, and its de- gree.—Experience fhews, that, a confider- able diflenfion of a vein to be opened by phlebotomy (ry 10.) is neceflary to afford refiflerxe to the inflrument performing it, \ f Is not phlebotomy practicable with fafety in the internal jugular vein, at its inferior part, near the clavicle, immediately to the infertion of the fterno- cludo maftoid mufcle into that bone ? and may not a more fudden depletion of the veflels of the head, in the apoplectic ftate, be obtained) than from any other point of the venous fyftem ?515 SURGERY. In order to prevent transfixing; and that this may be commodioully procured by a fillet (1654.) comprefling the veins, while it does not much atfedt the arteries, applied nearer to the heart (22.) than the point to be wounded. Additional diftenfion, when neceiTary, may be obtained by the flimulant a&ion of fire or heated water, communicated by a fponge, or by immer- fion. The proper degree of diftenfion is as- certained by the touch *f. 1714. 3. Jnjlrumetit.—A modification of the knife named lancet (phlebotoinus, lan- ceola) is the inftrument (128.) employ- ed for performing blood-letting (1708.), which, according to conftrudfion, is na- med 1. Common or French, 2. Springed or German: While eacli poffefles peculiar advantages, the former is moft generally employed. t 715. 4. S'rzc of wound.—The diameter t A particular collar, with a pad on each fide cor- refponding to the jugular veins, has been invented to procure their diftenfion. See Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Surgery, vol. iv. 3T 2p6 ELEMENTS of of the vein felefted for phlebotomy (1710.) regulates the fize of wound; becaufe it is manifefl, that, the diameter of theftream of blood cannot be greater than that of the veffel tranfmitting it. T716. 5. Direction of wound.—Although, a wound parallel to the axis of a vein is more favourable to the fuppreflion of the cpnfequent haemorrhage (137.)) yet, in general, a phlebotomical one (1710.) may be fomewhat oblique, becaufe this is more certainly inflidted and patent. 1717. 6. Mode.—The common lancet (1714.), whatever be its general form, ought to be exceedingly acute : for per- forming the a6t of phlebotomy (1710.) it is moll cOmmodioufly held between the finger and thumb of either hand (the phlebotomifl ought to be ambidextrous), fupported by the middle and ring fingers ; its point averted from any adjoining ar- tery, is now cautioufly urged into the ca- vity' of the vein, and a wound of the fjpeci- fied dimenfion and form produced (1715-); while the integuments are properly fuftain- ed by the thumb of the other hand fo asSURGERY. 517. to preferve a coincidence between the ori- fice in thefe and that in the vein. 1718. 7. Deligation.—A comprefs applied over the wound formed by blood-letting (1708.), and fupported by a limber rol- ler (16 3 7.), upon the elbow and ankle, giving this the form of the figure 8 (1637.) ; contributes to fecurity againft return of haemorrhage (137.)* 1719. 8. Accidents.—Aneuryfm (1159.), ecchymom (1289.), an<^ inflammation (776.), are the moll likely accidents to fupervene upon the celebration of blood- letting (1708.) ; of which the firft is the mod formidable ; the fecond is the re- fult of a want of coincidence of the wounded parts ; and the third mofl com- monly the refult of injured nerve. They refpectively require their fuited manage- ment j*. f Whenever there has been extraordinary pain at the time of the operation of bleeding in the arm, I take it for granted, that the lancet has touched a nerve, and not a tendon, as is commonly luppofed. And we all know, that the alarming fymptoms which fpmetimes happen after bleeding, are oftener owing to fome circumftance of the patient’s conflitution.5»* ELEMENTS of Arteriotomy. Arteriotomia. Arteriotomie. 1720. Definition—Blood-letting (1708.) pradifed from an artery (22.). 1721. Principles.—A perfect perform- ance of arteriotomy is efFeded nearly on the fame principles as phlebotomy (1710.), The chief fpecialities are in 1. Selection of an artery : 2. Mode and inftrument: 3. Deligation. 1722. 1. Selection of an artery.—The re- markable pulfatory action of the larger arterial ramifications, and the confequent vivid motion of their blood, necefFarily producing a difficulty of flaying haemor- rhage (137.) from a wound in them, how- ever fmall, is a circumftance which has nearly reftrided arteriotomy (1720.) to the temporal branch of the carotid aiv tery. ■than to any unfortunate or unlkilful way of perform- ing the operation. Dr Hunter’s Medical Comment. P 67vSURGERY. $1$ 1723. 2. Mode and injlrument.—Arteri- otomy (172a.) may be performed by cut- ting the integuments and artery at the fame time, or in fucceffion, by the ufe of the common lancet (1714.), or any other pointed inftrument. • * * . , , . 1 . - ’ .r,r * . * < t't »r ■ . » A 4 ' • - i 4. 1724. 3. Deligation.—Little difficulty attends the flaying of haemorrhage after arteriotomy (1720.) juftly performed in the temporal artery. Deligation fpecified after phlebotomy (1710.) being found in- adequate, affiftance may be derived from the tournequet (1637.) *. 1725. Arguments adduced to evince, that, peculiar advantages refult from ab- ftradlion of blood from the arterial fyftem (22.), are by no means conclufive. Ar- teriotomy (1720.) is therefore very feldora pradlifed. * Dr Butter has invented a fpecial bandage rcr be ufed after arteriotomy. It is no more than a ilight alteration of Petit’s tournequete. It may be ufefully applied to other parts of the body to reftrain haemor- rhage.S so E L E M E N TS .&* » IN • t • — . •. < \w;\w\\ vr:.r ’ ...\ Scarification. Scarificatio. 1726. Definition.—Blood-letting (1708.) performed in confequence of the infliction of fmall wounds. flr: vir,:d-i';"> i. .\ r 'io • •/:d 0>. J f ' : 1 —rim-nn v . r f i] > • 'K '• 'r . : !rff ( .C' " » V'"[• ‘ * • * 10i */J- 't- \*w • , . Moist Cupping. Cucurbit a cruenta. Ventoufe humide. Cupping. 1727. Definition.—Scarification (1726.) promoted by the influence of an exhauft- ed receiver (cucurbita, cup). ■ ■■■■ iHiinwBvar.r—>■ t)RY Cupping. Cucurbita Jicca. Ventoufe fieche. 1728. Definition.—Application of the ex'- haufted receiver (1728.) without fcarifica- tion (1726.). 1729. Mode.—Moift cupping (1727.) is521 S U R G E R Y, performable upoh almoft any; point of the cutaneous furface. The influence of dry cupping (1728.) is fometimes premifed to fcarification to procure determination of blood and diftenfion of its veflels. 1730. Injlruments.—Scarifying (1726.) is performed byafpecial inflrument named fcarificator (cubus fcarificatorius), which is a combination of lancets rapidly moved, by a flrong fpring. The cup (1727.), formed generally of glafs, of various fize and fhape, is exhaufted by 1. The air-pump or fucker. 2. Fire or heat inducing rarefadlion of the contained air. The former method feems to be the moft commodious and efficient. Leeching. 1731. Definition.—Blood-letting (1708.) performed by a leech (fanguifuga). 1732. Leeching (1731.) is peculiarly ex- cellent, becaufe it gives no uncommon ir- ritation, and may of courfe be per- 3 U VOL. II.5'22 ELEMENTS of formed from the very feat of inflamma*> tion (776.)* Oncotomy. Oncotomia. Kirfotomia. 1733. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) or chirurgic opening (843.) of impofthume- (786.), or humoral fwelling (774.*) in ge- neral. 1734. Mode atid Injlruments*—The direc- tion of the opening (1733.) formed into Immoral fwelling ought, if circumllances permit, to be longitudinal as to the body, and its fize and fituation to be favourable- to afford eafieft vent to the fluid to be dif- charged. A fmall knife (fcalpellum), a large lancet (1714.), a grooved or con- ducting probe (fpecillum fulcatum), are inflruments neceflary to the completion of oncotomy (1733.). Other expedients for opening humoral fwelling have been enu- merated (844.),-523 SURGERY. Dilatation of Wound. Dilatatio Vnlneris. 1735. Definition.—Incifion(i7o6.) direct- ed to enlarge and alter the form of wound <1441.}. 1736. Mode and Infruments.—Dilatation of wound (1441.), as to mode and inftru- snents, much refembles oncotomy (1733.)* Trepaning. 'Trepanatio. Terebratio. Operation of'Trepan- Perforation of the full, 1737. Definition.—Incilion (1706.) form- ed through the Ikull, or any other bone j\ 1738. Principles.—The condudt of tre- f Trf.paning — Making one or more orifices through the fkull, to admit an inftrument for railing 2ny pieces of bone that by violence are beat inwards upon the brain, or to give iflue to blood or matter lodged in any part within the cranium. Sharp. 3 U 2524 ELEMENTS of paning (1737.) the fkull is diversified ac- cording to the ftrudture of 1. The fcalp (capillitium). 2. The fkull. 3. The membranes of the brain. 1739. 1. The fcalp.—Fa£ts uniformly teflify, that cicatrization (1443.) of wound (1441.), in every fituation, is tedious near- ly in proportion to the deftrudtion of the integuments: Amputating(1652.) any part of them, therefore, in performing trepana- tion (1737.) (a deftrudtive practice named fcalping), is carefully to be avoided f. In- cifion curved, flraight, or crucial, accord- ing to circumflances, affords fufficient ac~ cefs to the bone. 1740. 2. The fkull.—Special ftrudluve (15.) precludes the poffibility of forming f Scalping, preparatory to trepaning, which is flrongly inculcated by Mr Sharp and fome other modern furgeons, Teems not to have been much prac- tifed by their predeceflbrs. Nirnis durum videtur, moy, angplos feciae cutis Tor- fice praecidere; praeltat illos relinquere, et inter eos atque os linamenta poncre. Platneri Jnjlit. Cki- rurg. § 565.SURGERY. 525 a proper chirurgic opening through the ikull without the afliftance of a circular law (modiolus), by which excifton (1652.) of a piece of it neceftarily takes place. A juft execution of this ftep of trepaning bu- ftnefs (1737-) requires attention to 1. The feledtion of place. 2. The mode. 3. The inftruments. 1741. 1. The feledllon of place. —The up- per portion of the Ikull alone is acceftible to trepaning (1737.) : Thofe parts admit it moft favourably whi«h are of equal thick- nefs, and freeft from vafcular furrows and pits. Dexterity, however, will not hefitate to attempt it, when neceftity urges, in the fagittal future itfelf. Such, however, can feldom exift, becaufe a perforation near it on each fide is likely to fulfil every indica- tion (99.). Deliberate progrefs, and fre- quent examination, are indifpenfably ne- ceftary. Detaching the membrane of the bone (pericranium) previoufly to the appli- cation of the faw, is not only a needlefs, but injurious ftep. Frequent perforations, and elevation of fragments, are not feldom indicated.526 ELEMENTS of 1742. 2. Inftruments.—A trephine or hand-trepan, its faw full-fized and cylin- drical, is the inltrument employed for cut- ting the bone in trepaning (1737.) : Its center is commonly fixed in a puncture formed by the perforative trepan*. A lever is ufeful to. elevate deprefled frag- ments. 1743- 3. 'The membranes oj the brain.— The dura mater may juftly be confidered as a membrane of the fkull, becaufe an in- timate vafcular connection fubfilts between them, which ought not to be wantonly de- ftroyed. An opening, when necefiary, is formed through it by cautious oblique ftrokes of the knife f. 1744. Till the objeCt of the operation of trepaning (1737.) is fully attained, fome * Trepanum, Terebra—11 y a trois fortes tie Trepan; P exfolintif, le perferatif, et le couronne. VlL- LARS. f Frequent practice of trepaning has enabled me to reduce its inftruments to a finall number: 1. A lcnife ; 2. A trephine without a center ; A lever. The rugine or rnfpatory, the center and key, and the varioufly formed lenticulars, are thus difcarded.SURGERY. 527 lint may be interpofed between the in- teguments and bone; afterwards repofi- t-ion, and the other curative fteps of wound, are to be periifted in (1447.). Trepaning the Upper Jaw. 1745. jDefinition.—Incifion (1706.) form- ed into the maxillary cavity (antrum ma- xillaris). 1746. Place.—Perforation of the ma- xillary cavity (1745.) may be formed ei- ther through the focket of the correfpond- ing middle or largeft grinder (dens mola- ris), or through the furface of the bone near the zygomatic procefs. This laft is the mod eligible pointy when the bone is found. 1747. Mode and Injlrumcnts.—The tooth mentioned (1746.) being amputated (1696), or the integuments of the mouth covering the fpecified point being divided by the knife, gradual boring in a proper direc- tion, performed by perforative trepan (1742.), or any proper perforator, till the inftrument reach the cavity of the maxii-528 ELEMENTS or* lary bone, completes its trepanation (1737)* Preferving the hole pervious by a tube (canula) or tent (turunda) may fometimes be proper. Trepaning the Breast Bone. 1748. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) form- ed through the breaft bone (fternum). 1749. Mode and infruments.—Thefpongy and equable texture of the breaft bone renders its perforation (1737.) a bulinefs of eafy execution. No lpeciality in mode ®r inftruments (1742.) is indicated. Trepaning a Hollow Bone. 1750. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) car- ried into the cavity of a long bone. 1751. Mode and infruments.—The leg- bone (tibia) is moft likely, of the fifluloms or hollow bones, to be the fubjedl of tre- panation (1737.)- Its performance feems to demand no fpeciality in manner or in- ftruments (1742.). 1SURGERY. 529 Eye-Perforation. Paracentefis oculi. 1752. Definitiom—Incilion (1706.) form- ed through the coats of the eye-ball. 1753. Mode and injiruments.—Eye-per- foration (1752.) may be made at a point immediately behind the Uvea, by the couching needle (1694.) or any fuch in- ftrument. Cutting the Iris. SeElio uveae. 1754. Definition.—Incilion (1706.) form- ed through the iris (uvea), of which the pupil has been obliterated (1626.). 1755. Mode and injlrumcnt.—Cutting of the iris (1754.) may be lafely effected by the point of the couching needle, intro- duced as taught for the performance of couching (1692.) and dextroully directed and moved. 5 X VOL. II.ELEMENTS op Bronchotomy. Bronchotomia. Tracheotomici. Laryngotomia. Bronchotomic. 1756. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) car- ried into the cavity of the wind-pipe (trachea) to permit the tranfmidion of air for fupporting refpiration. 1757. Mode and infiruments.—A longi- tudinal divilion of the integuments, and of the cellular fubdance in the interface of the adjacent mufcles, exactly over the middle or axis of the wind-pipe (1756.), from its top (larynx) to the top of the bread bone (dernum), formed cautioufly by the knife ; and a tranfverfe one effected by the fame indrument in the interdice of the fecond and third, or third and fourth rings of the now apparent wind- pipe, (fecured againd motion by a thread inferted by the crooked needle, or by a hook), of fufficient capacity to tranfmit the requifite quantity of air through a flattened double diver tube, inferted andSURGERY. 53* properly fupported with, a view to pre- serve the wound pervious till its purpofc be fuperfedcd conftitute bronchotomy *. Chest-Perforation. Paraceutcfis ‘Thoracis. * In prefence and with confent of feveral eminent phyficians, 1 performed bronchotomv on a child of two or three years old, labouring under all the fymptoms of extreme croup (fuff'ocatio ftridula, cynanche tra- chealis), with a view to prevent luffocation, and to extract, if pofljble, a fuppofed morbid membrane. The patient furvived the operation only a lhort time. The great motion of the trachea, and its final 1 Pize, rendered it a bufmefs not a little diffh ult and delicate. Dilfection difcovered no membrane, no inflammation, no contraction. Fixing the trachea by a ligature paf- fed tranfverlely through it by a needle, till the tranf- verfe feclion be performed, is an obvious improve- menu Operation for Empyema. Haematocelen. Hydrothoracern. Pneumatofn. Chejl-empycm. Chef-haematokele. Chef-hydrokele. Chef-pneumatocele.533 ELEMENTS of 1758. Defoiition.—Incifion (1706.) form* ed into a pleuritic cavity to difcharge fluid. 1759. Mode and place.—Ched-perforation (1758.) confifts in cautioufly dividing the integuments, the intercoftal mufcles and pleura, fo as to form an opening of pro-, per capacity to fulfil the indication (1758.). A point equidiftant from the back and bread bones, in the interdice of the fixth and feventh ribs, is commonly eligible ; a latitude in this refpecd is permiflible. 1760. Injlruments. — Ched-perforation (1758.) in general is mod fafely efledled by the knife cautioufly ufed, efpecially in dividing the pleura, to which the lungs may be adherent, and is therefore pre- ferable for this office to the canulated per- forator named commonly trocar, which has been fpecioufly recommended *, The * In the cafe of air effufed in the pleura, it has been fpecioufly propofed to obtain its evacuation by a cautious and ohlique introduction of a canulated tro- car, that, when retired, the obliquity of the hole aft- ing as a valve, may deny admifTion to the furroundjngSURGERY. 533 orifice may occafionally be kept pervious by a tube (canula) properly formed and fu flamed. Belly-Perforation. Operatio ad afcitem. Operatio ad tympa?iitem. \'Tapping. Piercing. 1761. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) form- ed through the abdominal containing parts to acquire evacuation of fluid. 1762. Mode and injlruments.—Belly-per- foration (1761.) is performed by a cau- tious and oblique infinuation of a canu- lated perforator into a point equidiflant from and between the navel and fpine of the haunch bone (os ileum) till a failure of refiftance, or the efcape of fluid, mark ♦ air. The po/Tibility of adhefions of the longs, and of the neceffity of repeating the perforation, are fuffici- ent objections to the general expediency of this mode of operation, which promifes few peculiar advantages. Ufeful remarks on this point by the late ingenious Mr Hew son are in Medical Ejfitys and Inquiries. vol. jii.534 ELEMENTS of full penetration. A reclined lateral Etu- ation renders the fpecified point abundant- ly dependent. The discharge is promoted by preflure, which may be molt commo- dioufly procured by the fix-tailed bandage (1636.),of due fize, inverting the belly, pro- portionally tightened. This may be allow, ed to remain for fome days. Bladder-Perforation. Paracentefis Vcficae Urittae. PunEture of the Bladder. 1763. Defnition.—Incilion (1706.) made into the bladder of urine. 1764. Place.—Bladder-perforation (1763) may be effected immediately above the fhare-bones (olfa pubis) in both fexes ; from the perinaeum and ftraight gut (in- teftinum rectum) in the male, and from the partage to the womb (vagina uteri) in the female. 1765. Mode and Infrument.—A canulated perforator (trocar) properly rtzed and form- ed, is infinuated cautioufly in a proper di- re<rtioii, till it reach the cavity of the dif-SURGERY. S3$ M. Fleur ant. tended bladder (1278.). The tube may be allowed to remain for fome time, to fuperfede a frefli introduction t. Womb-Puncture. Paracentefis Uteri. 1766. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) car- ried into the cavity of the womb. 1767. Mode and Infirument.—Womb- puncture (1766.) can be performed by the trocar properly formed, introduced through its paffage (vagina uteri). This harfh prac- tice may perhaps be always fuperfeded by a forceful dilatation of its internal orifice (os uteri internum). Scrotum-Puncture. Paracentefis Scroti. Operatio ad Hydrocelen palliativa. Palliative Cure of Hydrokele. t See M. Poutou’s Melange de Chirurgie, p. 50c. in which is recorded a valuable communication by$$6 ELEMENTS of 1768. Definition.—Incifion (1706.) car- ried into the vaginal coat of a tefticlc (teftis). i 769. Mode a?id Injlruments.—The ufual perforating inftrument (trocar) is pufhed through the integuments and vaginal coat from an inferior anterior point of the fur- face of the fcrotum, that, as much as pof- fible, the adjacent telficle may be avoided* It may likewife be accomplilhed by the knife or lancet. Fistul’ Operation. 1 Operatio ad Fijlulam A?ii, ' St Elio Fifiulae Am. 17jo. Definition. — Incifion (1706.) di- rected from fiftulous ulcer (1516.),adjacent to the ftraight gut (inteftinum return), into this organ, fo as to form a common cavity. ' 1771. Mode and Injlruments.—A probe- pointed knife is palled into fiftulous ulcer (1516.) communicating with the ftraight gut (1764.), till its point reft on the fingerSURGERY. 537 vol. ir. lodged in the gut, performs fiftul’ opera- tion (1770.). It is of more difficult accom- plifhment when there is no hole of com- munication : It is propofed to make one with a perforator, and to complete the bu~ finefs with the knife f. 1772. The incifion formed by fiftul operation (1770.) is kept diftended fome- what with lint introduced, till adhefive in- flammation (778.) and concretion (1443.) enfue. f I have invented a concealed knife of fuch mecha« nifm, that it is qualified to perform filluP operation, whether there is a hole of communication or not: It is moved upon a conductor previoufly inferted into the gut, and the fedlion is afterwards readily com* pletedi 3 v538 ELEMENTS o? iv. extraction: Extra&io. Excmptio. Extracting* Drawing-out. 1773. Definition.—Operation (1628.) di- redded to effedt extradtion. 1774. Varieties.—The fubftance the fub- jedt of extradling (1773*)» an(i Situation, create its varieties. Abstraction of Foreign Matter from Wound. Exemptio Cbrporum extraneorum. 1775* Definition. — Extraction (1775.) pradtifed on foreign fubftances impadted in the wounded folids (1441.). 1776. Principles and Mode..—Remarks re- fpedling the principles and mode of extradl- ing (1773.) foreign matters (796.) are pre- mifed (1450.).- It may be farther obfer- ved, that, as experience has manifeded,SURGERY. 3 Y 2 535 that, lead, efpecially in the form of ball, may remain for a great length of time buried in the living parts with impunity, any detractive attempts to abllract it may in general be fuperfeded. Qjesophagotomy. Oefopbagoto??iia. Oefophagotomie. 1777. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of foreign matter impacted in the upper por- tion of the gullet (oefophagus) by incilion (1706.). 1778. Mode.—Anatomy (16.) Ihews, that oefophagotomy (1777.) is barely practi- cable. Incilion (1706.) formed laterally in the moll cautious manner is intended to permit extraction (1773.) : A project that has never been carried into execution on the living body, and can only avail when the impediment to deglutition is lituated in the neck. 1779. Subllances impacted in the gul- let (1777.), and moveable, are often fuc-54° ELEMENTS of fuccefsfully difplaced by a flexible probe (J572-)- Enterotomy. Enterotomia. Enterotomie. \ 1 m 1780. Definition.—Extraction (1773O of foreign matter, from the cavity of the in- teftine (1576.) byincifion (1706.) 1781. Mode.—The blind gut (caecum) and ftraight one (reCtum) are fo lituated, that enterotomy (1780.) is practicable with- out wounding (1706.) the peritoneum, pr opening the abdominal cavity: directed to any other point of the alimentary canal in that cavity, this membrane is necelfa- rily wounded *, Division of the Share-bones. ScElio fynchondrofeos ojfitim pubis. Operatio figaultiana. ScEiion of the pubes. * M. Plenck talks of Enterotomy dire&ed to the ftomach. <f Metalla, ferro excepto, quod acidis fol- vitur, mercurio vivo folvi pclTint, fi in ventriculo reti-SURGERY. 541 1782. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of the child; or parturition (1582.) effected ; in confequence of cutting (1706.) the con- necting fubftance (fymphyfis) of the fhare- bones (offa pubis). 1783. Mode.—The divifion of the fhare- bones (1782.) is effected by a coniiderable longitudinal coincident incifion (1706.) of the integumefits, and cellular fubftance co- vering the junction of thefe bones, and of their cartilage or connecting fubftance; the adjacent bladder of urine and urethra ^re carefully avoided by the knife *. neantur. Corpora majora et indifiolubilia e ventricub etiam exfcindi poffunt.” Compend. I/ifiitut. Chirurg. p. 80. * The capacity of the pelvis is demonftrably aug- mented by feparating the {hare bones from one an- other, by incifion of their integuments and intermedi- ate cartilage, a fafe operation, which M. Sigault, afliited by Dr Le Roy of Paris, about tv» o years agoi had the honour for the firft time to perform on the living human body. The fhare-bones receded mutually fomewhat more than two inches and an half; a living child was confequently extracted through a bafon, whofe lhortefl: diameter was only two inches and an half, which by demonftratioi* is thus proportionally, although not fomuch, lengthened as isitslongeft one.ELEMENTS of 542 Caesarean Section. Seftio caefarea. Partus caefareus. Gajlrotomia. Hyflerotomia. Hyflerotomatocia. Operation caefiarienne. Gafirotomy. Hyfierototomy. Caefarean operation. 1784. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of the child and after-birth (1581.), in confe- quence ofincifion (1706.) formed through the abdominal containing parts only, when extrauterine; and of the womb (uterus), or its tube (tuba fallopiana), when lodged in thefe. 1785. Mode.—Caefarean fection (1784.) confifts in a longitudinal incifion (1706.) formed through the abdominal containing parts, fix or feven inches in length, and on its left fide at a fufficient diftance to avoid the epigaflic artery. Much atten- tion,not to injure the protruding bowels, is neceffary. The dhild and its after-birth (1581.), if extrauterine, may be now ex-543 SURGERY. traded ; if not, the womb is opened by a correfpondent incifion formed exadly through the middle of its anterior furface, of fufficient extent to permit the extrac- tion intended, which ought to be effeded, with expedition to permit contradion, that, the great haemorrhage (137.) necefia- rily prefent may be checked. A proper in- cifion of a fallopian tube is formed when the child is contained in it. Embryotomy. Embryotomia, Embry ulcia. Objletricum hamattlc. Embryotomic. Crocbetting. 1786. Dejinition.—Extradion (1773.) of the child from the womb, effeded in con- fequence of diminution of volume, arifing from incifion (1706.) of its head or other part. 1787. Mode and Injintments.—Embryo- tomy (1786.), the child’s head oppofed to the orifice of the womb, is performed by eautioufly guiding any piercing inftru-ELEMENTS of 544 ment (fciffars peculiarly formed and fome- what curved are generally employed) ca- pable to infliCt a fufficient wound (1441.) of the parts containing the brain, fo as to permit its difcharge. The extraction is completed by the ufe of hooks (crotchets), the conduCt of which requires every at- tention, left the mother receive any in- jury. Lithotomy. Lithotomia* Lithotomies faille de la pierre. Cutting for the Jlone. 1788. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of the (tone (958.) in confequence ofincifion (1706.) from any point of the animal body. 1789. Varieties.—Lithotomy (1788.) is moft frequently directed to the ftone (958.) exifting in the urinary paffages. According to fituation of the ftone (958.) it is named x. Nephrotomy: 2. Cyftotomy : 3. Urethrotomy.SURGERY. 545 V Nephrotomy; 1790. Definition.—Lithotomy (1788.), of Which the ftone (958.) in a kidney is the objedt. 1791. Mode.—The ftone (958.) in the kidney is beyond the reach of fearching *. Its prefence can only be inferred from the affedlion of the kidney it induces, of which a principal fymptom is kidney-in- flammation (956.); a circumftance that may be produdtive of fallacy. It is there- fore only when it has betrayed itfelf by ex- ternal appearance that nephrotomy (1790;) can be rationally undertaken (972, 973.)* Cystotomy. Cyfiotomia. Cyfiotomki 1792. Definition.—Lithotomy (1788.), of which the ftone (958.) in the bladder of urine is the objedb * See Searching. Vol. 11. 3 7n546 ELEMENTS of 1793. Varieties.—Without wounding the peritoneum, cyftotomy (1792.) may be pra&ifed through the anterior, and alfo the inferior part of the bladder of urine. Accordingly, of its four varieties, one re- fpedts the former and three the latter por- tion of it. They are named 1. High : 2. Lateral: 3. Cellic: 4. Great. 1794. Preliminaries.—Before cyftotomy (1792.) is undertaken, the urmoft atten- tion is juftly due to afcertain the 1. Exiftence of the ftone (958.) in the bladder: 2. Size and other characters of the .{lone: 3. State of the bladder : 4. Habit and age of the patient. 1795. Exigence of the fonc in the bladder. —The exiftence of the ftone (958.) in the bladder is difcovered principally by 1. Bladder inflammation (974.) :SURGERY. 547 2. Pain darting in the diredlion of the nrethre, aggravated during and after dif- charge of urine, or defultory motion : and fometimes alleviated by recumbent pofture, and preflure upon the perinaeum: 3. Bloody urine (242.) fometimes : 4. Slimy urine very conftantly; it is fometimes purulent (784.) : 5. Sounding*, efFedted by means of a found introduced into the bladder, or in- to the ftraight gut (inteftinum redlum) f, or of the finger lodged in this lall named organ or in the p^ffage of die womb (va- gina uteri) * See Sounding. f I have invented a thick pohfhed metal probe, proportionally curved, intended to be int odj cd far- ther into the flra'ght gut than the finger can reach, in order to aflilt in detecting the characters of itone in the bladder of urine. I name it Lithonieter. X Signa calculi latirantis in vefica funt dolorifica et fjjequens mingendi cupiditas, doior glandis, tentigo penis injucunda line inflatione, pondus in perinaeo, fubitanea inter niingendum urinae fnppreflio, facilitas mingendi refupinato corpore et decuflatis cmribus, u- rina mucofa et foetida, exacerbatio dolorum circa et in vefica a veCtura in curru. Signa haec adhuc magis 3 z; 2548 ELEMENTS of 1796. Size and other char afters of the Jlone.—It is of the laft importance prepa- ratory to cyftotomy to acquire full infor- mation of the charatfters of the ftone (95 8.), particularly as to lize and plurality *, 1797. State of the bladder,—Becaufe the bladder is wounded (1441.) in a very um favourable manner by cyftotomy (1792.), and healing is in proportion to its founds nefs (it is often contracted, thickened, and feeming feirrhous (1312.), a careful in- quiry into its condition is an indifpenfable preliminary to cyftotomy (1792.). 1798. Habit and age of the patient.—The propriety of attention to the habit and age of the patient previoufly to performing cyftotomy (1792.) is obvious. confirmat catheter in veficam et digitus in anum im- mifTus. Sagar. De Ifchuria Calculofa. See Sharp’s Surgery—of the Stone. * A ftoue amounting to five, fix, or feven ounces, extracted by cyftotomy, as generally performed at pre- fent, will probably eighteen times in twenty produce fatal violence : In a few cafes the miferable fuflferere have furvived the extraction of a ftone much larger.SURGERY. 549 High Cystotomy. Lithotomia franconiana. Cyjlotomia cum apparatu alto. Cyjlotomia hypogaflrica. Seclio hypogaftr 'ica. Appareil haul. High operation. 1799. Definition.—Cyftotomy (1792.), the inciflon (17c6.) formed above the ihare-bones (offa pubis) into the fore part of the body of the bladder. 1800. Mode'andInjlruments.—High cyfto- tomy (1799.) is accomplifhed by inflicting a longitudinal wound (1706.), two or three inches in length, in the inferior part of the linea alba, extending from the ihare-bones upwards, through the integu- ments, interface of the mufclcs, and into the bladder of urine, cautioufly avoiding the peritoneum. To facilitate the inci- flon, diftenflon of the bladder by urine or injeCted fluid is praCtifed. The {tone (958.) is intercepted and extracted by an inftru- ment named forceps, of which the litho*SS° ELEMENTS OF tomift ought to poflefs various modifica- tions as to fize and figure *. 1801. Advantage.—A more eafy and fafe extraction of a large ftone (958.) by high cyftotomy (1799.) than by the other va- rieties is expected. 1802. Objection.—The difficulty of car- rying a proper incifion (1706.) into the bladder, without wounding the perito- neum, is the chief objection to high cy- flotomy (1799.) f. 1803. May the divifion of the fhare- bones (1782.) in any cafe facilitate high cyftotomy (1799.) ? Lateral Cystotomy. Cyjlotomia lateralis. Methodus Fratris Jacobi. Metbodus Mariana. * Mr Broomfield has invented a lithotomy-for- ceps with four blades. f Frere Come has invented a mode of high cylto- tomy, and fuitable inftruments, that may diminilh the objection to it. See his publication.SURGERY. 55* Lithotomia Chefeldeniana. Lithotomia Douglajfiana. Lateral operation. Lateral method. 1804. Defjiition.—Cyftotomy (1792.), the incifion (1706.) formed laterally from the perineum into the membranous part of the urethre and neck of the bladder. 1805. Mode and Injlruments.— Lateral cyftotomy (1804.) is thus performed: A grooved probe (commonly named ftaff) is introduced into the urethre and bladder; a proportional incifion is cautioufly made through the integuments and cellular fub- ftance of the perinaeum, ftretching oblique- ly from the fcrotum to the interftice be- tween the hip-bone (os ifchii) and the ex- tremity of the ftraight gut (anus), through the adjacent mufcular fubftance and mem- branous portion of the urethre, till the point of the knife is lodged in the groove of the ftaff. The incifive part is completed by an inftrument named cutting gorgeret (a happy combination of the conductor of Hildanus and the knife) :f Its point or beck is certainly guided along the fore552 ELEMENTS cf finger into the groove of the ftaff, and is urged into the bladder, cutting the proflate gland, neck of the bladder, and contiguous parts, laterally, thus making an opening equal in length to its own breadth *. The ftaff is retired, and the for- ceps introduced along the gorgeret, which is next withdrawn, and the ftone (958.) intercepted, is cautioufly and dextroufly extracted : A plurality often exifts. 1806. Difficulties.—The incihve part of lateral cyftotomy (1804.) is of eafy execu- tion : indeed introducing the beck of the gorgeret into the groove of the ftaff re- quires attention ; the operation, upon the whole, is not without difficulties. The chief are, 1. Catching the flone in the forceps, efpecially when fmall, or the bladder dif- eafed. 2. Extracting the flone, when friable or large. The fragments (it is often broken) are extracted with a fpoon-like inftrument. * The ingenious Frere Come and others have in- vented various inftruments to be uled inftead of the cutting gorgeret.553 SURGERY. When large, it may be divided *, or the wound increafed, to diminilh the volume. 1807. Improvement.—Almoft all the di- faftrous confequences of lateral cyftotomy (1804.) refult from the fmallnefs of the incifion or opening; becaufe, even by the tranfmiffton of comparatively a fmall ftone, laceration and contulion (1466.) take place. Imagination recoils from* the cal- culation of what thefe muft be, when a large ftone is urged forcefully along. The chief improvement to be expected, of courfe, is a fafe invention to give always a large incifion, efpecially when a large ftone is fufpedled to be prefent f: Indeed a- bandoning the extraction of a large one * Si quando autem calculus m;ijor non videtUr, ni(i rupta cervlce, extrahi polTe, findendus eft, cujus re* pertor Ammon 1 us ob id A/9-&tj«cc cognominatus eft. Celsi de Medicina, lid. vii. cap. 26. I have invented and deferibed a forceps on a prin- ciple peculiarly calculated to divide and diminifh the ftone in the bladder. See EJJays and Cafes in Surgery. f I have made fume very promifing experiments with a gorgeretofat leaft twice the ordinary kreadth of the largeft now employed. 4 A VOL. II.554 ELEMENTS of till this is effetfled, is humanity and he- roifm. « 1808. Injecting * tepid water into the bladder immediately after cyftotomy, efpe- cially if the (lone has been broken, is in every refpebt a juftifiable pradlice^ Lateral Cystotomy on the Female. 1809. There is no occafion for the knife in performing lateral cyftotomy (1804.) on the female: the gorgeret (1805.) is urged into the bladder along the ftaff previoufly introduced. t8to. A repetition of lateral cyftotomy (1804.) is fometimes necelfary. No varia- tion refults from this circumftance; the oppolite fide of the parts may be wounded alternately f. * See Injection. f A gentleman, now in good health, has five times undergone lateral cyftotomy, performed by MeflT. Gibson and Anderson, furgeons in Leith. See Carol. Sibbald Hijioria Lithotomiae in eodetn bmwne bis fa£iae} cum ejus rejlitutione.555 SURGERY. Celsic CVstotomy. Sc El to Cclfica. Methodus Guidiniana. Methodus parvo apparatu. Petit appareiL Cutting on the gripe. 1811. Definition.—Cyftotomy (1892.),the ncihon (1706.) formed through the peri- naeum, till the ftone (958.), preffed againft it by the finger of the left hand in the ftraight gut, is expofed and extracted, the the courfe of the incifion refembling thatv^> of the lateral method (1804.) *. Great Cystotomy. Cyjlotomia cum apparatu magno. Methodus apparatu magno. i ♦•This manner of incifion is a deviation from the original method of Celsus. Its form, according to him, was that of a crei’cent, with its point turned to- wards the back of the patient: “ Cum jam eo ve- “ nit, incidi fuper veficae cervicem, juxta anum, cutis <e plaga limata ufque ad cervicem veficae debeat, cor- “ nibus ad coxas fpeftantibus paulum.” Celsi de JMedicina, lib. vii. cap. 26. 4 A 2556 ELEMENTS of Methodus mariana. Grand appareil. Great apparatus. 1812. Definition.—Cyftotomy (1792.), in which the incifion is made into the urethre below its bulbous part, which is forceful- ly dilated by inftruments named conduc- tors (conductores mas et femina), to per- mit the ' introduction of the forceps and extraction of the tone (958.). 1813. The high (1799.), celfic (1811.), and great (1812.) cyftotomy, are, for ma- ny obvious caufes, juftly fuperfeded by lateral (1804.) cyftotomy. Urethrotomy, Urethrotomia. Urethrotomie, 1814. Definition.—Lithotomy (1788.), the object of which is the ftone (958.) in the urethre. 1815. Mode.—The impaction of the ftone in the urethre, which is obvious, de-SURGERY. 557 mands urethrotomy (1814.), which may be performed in any part of it by a longitu- dinal incilion (1706.) upon the (tone (95 8.), and its extradtion through the wound. Re- tracing the integuments previoufly, that they may afterwards cover the wound of the urethre, as propofed by Cels us *, is at lead unneceflary. 1816. The done (958.), impacted in the urethre, may fometimes be extraCed with- out incilion by appropriated forceps and other methods. Extraction of the Stone in the sa- livary Ducts. 1817. The exidence of the done (958.) in any of the falivary orifices, and its ex- traction, is obvious and eafy. *' Nonnunquam eriam prolapfus in ipfam fiftulam calculus, qui fubinde eo ex'enuatur, non longe ab ex- itu inhaerefcit. Eum, fi fieri poteft, oportet vellere, vel oriculario fpecillo, vel eo ferramento, quo in fectio- ne calculus protrahitur. Si id fieri non potuit, cutis extrema quam plurimum extrahenda, et, condita glan- de, lino vincienda eft : deinde a latere refta plaga co- les incidendus, et calculus eximendus eft : turn cutis 1ELEMENTS of dc Medicina, lib. vii. cap. 26. Tooth-cleaning. 1818. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of the Hone adhering to a tooth. Catheterism. Catheterifimus. UJing the catheter. Drawing off the urine. 1819. Definition.—Extraction (1773.) of the urine from its bladder, by means of a fpecial tube, named catheter. 1820. Mode on the male.—A catheter (1819.),named male,becaufe correfpondent in curvature to the male urethre, is on him employed for catheterifm (1819.) ; its con- cave fide, turned to the belly, is gently in- troduced into the urethre, and dexteroufly pudied along till it reach the bladder, while the yard (penis) is fupported by the hand. The a Hi fiance of the finger in the ftraight gut (inteflinum rectum) will be neceffary remittenda ; fie enim fit, ut incifiim colem integra pars cutis contegJt, et urina naturaliter profluat. Cels:SURGERY. 559 to facilitate its paflage through the cavity of the neck of the bladder. It is needlefs to obferve, that the inftrument ought to be proportioned in all refpects to the urethre it is intended to be palled along : Befmear- ing with bland oil is ufeful. It is fome- times flexible, and permitted to remain unextradled occafionally. 1821. Mode on the female.—The catheter (1819.) comparatively fliort and ftraightr is named female, becaufe it is thus corre- fpondent to the form of the female urethre, Catheterifm (1819.) may be effe&ed on the female without infpedlion ; becaufe the point of the catheter gently palled back- wards between the nymphae can fcarce fail to enter the urethre. It is ealily urged into the cavity of the bladder. The finger in the paflage (vagina uteri) perceives its having entered *. * A few weeks ago, by attending to this circum- ftance, I fuecefsfully introduced the catheter into tha bladder of a female who had laboured under all the agonies of urokele, after many fruitlefs attempts to do this had been made during feven days, by various furgeons.ELEMENTS of j6o V. RECTIFICATION. RcBficatio. Reduction. Repofition. Replacing. 1822. Definition.—Operation (1628.) di- redled chiefly to the reftoration of place and form. 1823. Varieties.—Redtification (1822.) is ext;enfively indicated. Remarks on its principal varieties follow. Bone-Setting. 1824. Definition.—Rectification (1822.) ©f luxated (1426.) and fradtured (1482.) bone. Rectification of Bone-Jncurvation. 1825. Mode.—Bone-incurvation (1553.) may fometimes receive redtification (1822.) from fuited deligation (1632.) perfevering- ly maintained, efpecially during infancy and youth.SURGERY. 561 Rectification of Tongue-Tying. 1826. Mode and Injlrument.—Tongue- tying (1551 -) is rectified (1822.) as already taught (1552.) by the ufe of fciffars whole points are covered to prevent their wound* ing the adjacent parts of the mouth. Rectification of Hare-Lip. 1827. Mode and Injlrumcnts.—The cure of hare-lip (1549.) has been already detail* ed. The excifion (1652.) of the edge of native hare-lip is fitly performed by an in- urnment that at the fame time fupports the parts fo as to procure a rectilinear wound. Retention (1550.), till concretion (1443.) enfue, is obtained by the combined effort of twilled and falfe future (1640.), the blood effufed daring the operation, and fpittle for fome time after ought to be fwallowed, to prevent alteration of the parts *. . 1 * Mifs A. B. aged about five years, had a double hare-lip, with divided jaw and palate. The intercept- ed portion of jaw, covered with a piece of lip, and carrying two teeth, projected iomewhat more than Vol. II. 4 B562 E L E M E N TS of Rectification of Wry-Neck. 1828. Mode and InJIrumcnts.—Rectifica- tion (1822.) of wry-neck (743.) is at- tained by dividing the maftoid mufcle, whofe contraction is its caufe. This is efFeCled by forming a wound of the inte- guments in the direction of the mufcle fo as to permit a probe-rafor, or any fuited inftrument f, to be inlinuated half an inch beyond irs proper fituation, greatly in- creafing the deformity. In confultation with Dr Da- vid Spence of this city, it was determined to reduce the projecting portion of jaw by partially dividing it with a fin? faw immediately under the noitrils, its piece of lip, which could not be uleful, being previ- oufly removed, and then to join the lip. '1 his deli- cate and new plan of cure I fuccelsfully cai ried into execution. I had heard of a nearly fnnilar cafe of hare-lip, where the projecting maxillary portion was totally cut off, and the lip afterwards united. By inventing a commodious forceps to fuflain the lip, fo as to effeft an accurate exeition,—by forming it fo as to efteift the excillon at the fame.—by adopt- ing dry future, as defcribed, in place' of the uniting bandage,—by difcarding the ufe of a forceps named port-aiguille, deemed neceflary to hold the needles—by injoining the patient to fwallow blood efFufed into the month during perfomance, I prefume 1 have brought the operation of hare-lip to its utmoft perfeftion. f The knife already mentioned is well calculated to divide the maftoid mufcle.SURGERY. 563 Cautioufly behind it to cut it afunder tranfverfely. .■■^nfT»WiTgailTnni» tiT.» — Rectification of Webbing. 1829. Mode.—Webbing (1547.) may receive redrefs (1822.) by fuited incifion (1706.) and deligation (1632.). Keletomy. Keletomia. Hcrniotomia. Hernlotomle. Herniotomy. •/ Operation for Rupture. 1830. Definition.—Reduction (560.) of the conftituent parts of rupture (1346.) under ftrangulation (1385.) or removal of the ftrangulation itfelf by incifion (1706.). , 1 1831. Mode and Inflruments.—Keletomy (1830.) implies an incifion (1706.) of the integumentsof ftrangulated rupture (1385), and a careful continuation of it through the rupture-fac (1351.) : A conducing probe fomewhat pointed,inftnuated among 4 B 2564 ELEMENTS of the cellular matter occafionally, will af- ford much protection againif the point of the knife. The hole at which the ftran- gulation exifts is widened by the moft guarded touches of the knife ; a probe- pointed one is eligible for this bufinefs. A fmall degree of divifion fuffices. The direction of it, according to fituation, is pointed out by anatomy (16). Rectification of Shut Straight Gut. Incifio re Ell imperforati., 1832. Mode and Inftruments.—The recti- fication (i8'22.) of the deformity (1539.) fhut ftraight-gut (anus imperforatus) (1559-) requires very cautious incifion (1706.) conducted in the direction of the gut till a communication is attained. When the integuments only are to be di- vided by the knife, the bufinefs is eafily completed, but when the obflruclion is deep the difficulty is not fmall ; into the opening made by the knife a trocar may be guardedly urged in the proper direc- tion *. * Mr Leighton, an eminent furgeon of New- caftle, has favoured me with a hiftory of two cafes.SURGERY. 5% Prepuce-Rectification. Operation for phymofts. Operation for paraphymofis. 1833. Definition. — Rectification (1822.) of the prepuce (preputium) when narrow- ed (phymofis) '(1079.) or retracted (para- phymofis) (1083.). 1834. Mode and Itijlruments.—Prepuce- rectification (1833.), when prepuce-re- traction exifls (1083.), is often attainable by well conducted preffure (1087.). This expedient found inadequate, it is effected by the knife, by which the conflicting portion is cautioufly divided. A like di- vifion of prepuce is neceffary to rectifica- tion when narrownefs of it (1079.) is the affection f. in which die ftraight gut opened into the bladder of urine: In both rectification was attempted in vain. f The concealed knife before mentioned is pecu- liarly calculated for the operation for phymofis.566 ELEMENTS or VI. CAUTERISATION. Cauterifatio. *835. Definition.—Operation (1628.) di- recting the application of cauftic (127.). 1836. Mode and injiruments.—Cauftic (127.) is, 1. ACtual cautery : Cauierium a51 uale : 2. Potential cautery : Cauierium potentiale. The firft is fire; its application is through the. medium of metal (iron), varioufly formed according to intention : The laft is fait or faline matter varioufly compound- ed The chief difficulty attending its ufe is the confining of it to the intended fitua- tion: This is often effected by furrounding it with plafter. l l L ■: :' • 1837. An explanation of the mode of aClion, as well of the aCtual as of the po- tential cautery (1836.), is premifed(ioi5.). Unlefs in extreme urgency the firft is never employed by modern furgery (96.), and the laft lefs frequently than formerly. * See Aitken’s Outlines of Chemjlry. See Pharma cop. Eilinenf.SURGERY. 567 ■\ ... 1 ' \; . -•( .. VII. INTRODUCTION. ■ * - - IntroduElio. Infitio. Tnferting, In-putting. . ' ‘Ji.' 0 ' {.0 £ dl - 1838. Definition.—Operation (1628.) di- rected to inlinuate any fubftance into the folid texture (15.), or into a cavity of the animal body. : , ;; c' ; ) ; . ’ .\A:i; 1839- Varieties.—Chirurgic (96.) as well as pharmaceutic (95-) medicine often em- ploy introduction (1839.): its principal varieties refulting from circumftances de- ferve enumeration. Tooth-transplantation. ‘Tooth-luxation. 1840. Definition.—Introduction (1839.) of a tooth into a focket, to which it did not natively belong, or from which it had been abftracted (1696.). 1841. Mode.—The tooth to be fup- planted is removed (1696.) from its foq-V68 ELEMENTS of ket, with as little violence to this laft as may be, into which the one to bef trans- planted (named Scion-tooth), Selected of a correlpondent form and Size, newly ex- tracted from the living Subject, is accu- rately introduced and Suftained by tying (1639.): concretion in a Short time, for the molt part, takes place. This practice is al- molt neceffarily limited to lingle-fanged teeth 1842. Replacing (1822.) an extracted tooth into its proper Socket, isv named luxa- ting. A management, that, by deftroy- ing the continuity of the nervous fibre, is expeCted to prevent pain (toothach). Inoculation. Inoculatio. Inoculating. * With a view to determine if the cruet practice of extracting the found teeth of mercenary wretches for trranfplanting, might not be fuperfeded by ufing of dead teeth,—1 inferred' a living or newly extracted tooth and a dead one into two incifions of the comb of a cock. After Sixteen or eighteen days, 1 found the former was connected with the comb, while the latter, not connected, had produced Suppuration.Vol. II, 4 C s u R G E R Yi Jt> 9 1843. Definition.—Introduction (1839.) of morbific matter generally variolous (578.) into the fyflem. 1844. Mode and in fir ament.—Inoculation (1844.) generally reftricted to fmall-pox poifon may be performed in various ways. The molt common one is the forming of a little wound (1441.) in the arm, into which a fmall portion of the fpecific mat- ter adhering to a lancet (a gold one is pre- ferable), is carefully infinuated; the wound may be made with an untainted lancet. Inflammation(776.) fucceeding within two or three days is a proof of fuccefs. The future management will be collected from what is premifed (606.). The matter may be recent or not; it may be well preferved between two plates of glafs. Issue-making. Seton opcratio?u 1845. Definition.—Introduction (1839.) of a ftimulantfub fiance into wound (1441.), with a view to produce purulence (785.)ELEMENTS of 57° 1846. Mode and infirument.—Ifltie-flia- making (1845.) may be conducted various- ly. The wound (1441.) is made with the knife or lancet. This laft, Specially con- structed for this purpofe, is named feton- lancet and feton-needle. The Stimulant fubftance may be a pea, hence pea-iffue ; or a fkain or cord (fetum), hence feton- iffue. The feton-lancet, at the Same time that it infliCts the requifite wound, Serves to introduce the fkain. The pea, fkain, 8tc. are occafionally renewed, -*oui> oagg.TJM-U— Sounding, Exploratio. Searching. Probing. 1847. definition.—Introduction (1839.) of folid matters, particularly a probe, found, or ftaff into wound (1441.), ulcer (1504.), or cavity, generally with a view to obtain a diagnoftic (69.). 1848’. Mode and infiruments.—Probing (1847.) of wound (1441) and ulcer (13 04.) ought to be conducted with much tender- nefs. Probes of various kinds may be necef-571 SURGERY. lary, long, flexible, See. Probing of cavities, peculiarly termed founding, efpecially when directed to the bladder of urine, requires probes, commonly named founds and ftaves, varioufly flzed and formed. The remarks made on catheterifm (1819.) fn- perfede any farther obfervations refpecting founding of the urinary bladder : they are nearly flmilar, and depend much on dex- terity. Injection. Injeldio. Injecting. Syringing. Ablution. 1849. Definition.—Introduction (1839.) of fluid matter into wound (1441.), ulcer (1504.), or cavity. 1850. Mode and inflruments—Injection (1849.) is generally accomplilhed by means of the inflrument named fyringe (fyringa), which is worked by an impulflve power in the direction of its axis. It requires fteady 4 C 2Iv 572 ELEMENTS OF counteraction to prevent its extremity from didurbing the parts to which it is applied. This may therefore be judly fuperfeded by one, confiding of a bag or bladder, natu- ral or artificial, eladic or not, and a tube formed according to dedination, and flex- ible or not. The duid, with which this is loaded, is expelled by preffure like air from the bellows, with any requifite degree of impulfe, and without the hurtful intru-* lion now mentioned. The duid is feleCted according to the healing purpofe 1851. Varieties.—The chief varieties of injeCtion (1849.) refult from the place to which the application is made ; their enu- meration follows : Lachrymal Injection. InjeEtio viarum lachrymaliunu 1852. Definition.—InjeClion (1849.) the matter directed to the lachrymal padages *. * I have confixu&ed a great variety of injecting inftruments—Among them is a fyringe, to be worked by a ferewed pifton, to avoid the iinpul'ive afticn complained of. * In the former edition of thefe Elements, p. 520. I put the following queftion, May running Mercury8 U R G * E R Y. 573 Throat-Injection. InjeElio faucialis. 1853. Definition.—Injection (1849.) matter dire&ed to the throat (fauces) *. Stomach-Injection. InjeElio gafirica. 1854. Definition.—Inje&ion (1849.), matter introduced through the gullet by- means • of a flexible tube, and applied to the ftomach. Ear-Injection. ItjeBio auricularis. or quickfilver be injected, to remove obftrudtion of the lachrymal pafTages, preferably to tepid water? It appears from a communication in the Philofophical Tranfadtions, that Mr Blizard,' now Surgeon to the London hofpital, has fuccefsfully executed this idea confiderably pofterior to the publication of that edition. * Gargarifm, gargle, (gargarifma), a medical for- mule intended for the throat, may be applied by in- jedfion with peculiar influence in fome cales. /574 ELEMENTS op 1855. Definition.—Injection (1849.) the fluid directed to the paflages of the ear. * •’' ' ' ‘ * '• • s * / , X \ £}. • : .f • X ' Ureth re-Injection. Injeeiio urethralis. Inje&io veficalis. Bladder-Injection. 1856. Defi?iition.—Injection (1849.) the fluid impelled into the urethre or bladder. Womb-Injection. Injeftio uterina. 1857. Definition.—Injection (1850.) the matter applied to the morbid womb or its paflage. Gut-Injection. InjcElio intejlinalis. 1858. Defijiition.—Injedlion (1849.) the matter applied to the inteftine (inteftinum) from* its inferior extremity (anus).SURGERY. 57. Wound-Injection. Ablutio vulneris. Wound-waJhi?ig. 1859. Definition.—Injection (1849.) aP' plied to wound (1441.). Ulcer-Injection. Ablutio ulceris. Ulcer wajhing. i860. Definition.—Injection (1849.), fluid applied to ulcer (1504.). The End of /he Second Volume,4 L> IN D EX. A Air-Avelling, Albugo, 1333 A Berratio, Jl\. Abortio, 1344 Alchys, ib. 246 Alcohol, 120 Abortus, ib. Ale, 103 Abces, 7S6 Alexipharmaca, IO9 Abfcels, ib. Aliment, 103 Abi'cefl'us, ib. Alkali, volatile, 109. firople, lit, 126, , Ir3 cerebri. XI37 , 127 oculi, 1143 Alkaline fait, 120 articularis, l<55 Alterants, 117 fpirituoius, 1159 indirect, 123 Abforbents, 126 Ailum, 123 AbftiafHon of foreign matter Alvi flu xus, 707 from wound. 1775 Amaurofis, 73° principles and mode, 1.776 Ambuftio, 1009 Ablution, 1849 Ambylopia, 173° Ablutio vulneris, 1859 Amenorrhoea, 716 ulceris, 3860 Amentia, Amnefia, 735 Acces de fievre, 639 ib. Achor, IJ33 Amphemerina, 750 , 680 Acids, 127 palludofa, 683 Acid fait, «8, 120 biliofa, ib. Acute rheumatifm. 530 Amputation, 128 Accouchement, 1582 long delayed, often Adminiftratio antiphlogiftica, 816 fatal. 87 5 Aduffum, 1009 confidered as a re' Adynamia, 770 medy of wound. 1480 Aegilops, 1534 fratture, 1490 Aerial encyfled fwclling. 1257 Amputative wound, 1464 Aether, 120 Amputatio cafualis. ib. Affettio hyfterica. 74 5 ' Amputatura, ib. phthilica. 759 Amputatio penis, 1687 fyphilitica, 766 mode, 1688 Affeflion fcorbutic, 210 Amputatio lipomatis, I700 Aflettus fpaftico-arthriticus, 721 Amputatio cubiti, 167 5 fuperficiaiius, 41 uvulae. 1677 AgalaOatio, 718 amygdalx, 1679 Agaloxis, ib. Amputatio tibiae, 1673 Agencfia, 715 Amputatio humeri, 1671 Ageuftia, 729 Amputatio femoris, 1669 Ague, 639 Amputatio, 165a paroxyfm. 640 Amputation, ib. fit, 643 principles of, 1653 irregular, 672, 676 inftruments. 166a tertian. ib. 674 of the auxiliary quartan, ib. 675 glands, 1686 quotidian, 673 Amputative wound, form of, 1657 Ague, anomalous, 676 Aneuryfm-operation, 1648 Agrvpnia, Aiinorrhois, 733 mode, 1649 *37 Anacatharfis, 7°5 Air, 103 An^erthefia, 733E X. N D 6d Anachrempfis, 703 Anahexisj ib. Analepfla, 1729, 1744 Analeptica, 103 Anaeptyfis, 705 Anafarca, 769 Anatomy, 16 Anchylofis, 12497 *542 Aneuryfm, 1159 diagnoftic, 1160 diftinftion, 1161 true, 116a diagnoftic, 1163 of'the aorta, 1164 diagnoftic, 1 i6j caufes, i-i 66 cure, 1167 fpurious, 1169 diagnoftic, 1170 cure, 1171 A'nmryfma, 1159 verum, 116a praecordiortim, 1164 ipurium, 1169, 1289 varicofum, 1171 venofum, ib. varicofum, 1183 Aneuryime, 1159 vrai, 1162 du coeur, 1164 Aneuryfmal varixi 1183 cure, 1184 Animal, defined, 23 life of, 25 death of,. 26 fnbftances,' 103 Animi deliquium, 770 Angina infantum infiammatoria, 748 polypbofa, ib. aquofa, 769 Anginous fever, 577 Angina, 577 inflammatori% 889 Angine, ib. Ankylofe, 1542 Anodyna, H9 Anodynes, ib. Anorexia, 705 Anofmia, 731 Antacida, 126 Antacids,- ib. Antalkalina, 118 Antiquity, relative, of phyfic and furgery, 134 Anthelmintica, 125 Anthelmintics, ib. Antifpafmodica, M9 , ; Antifeptica, 118 Antifeptics, ib* Anthrax, 1001 Antiphlogiftic remedies, 815 general, 82s topical, 823 courfe, 116 regimen ib.' Anxiety, 279 Apepfia, 706 Apocenofis, 698 Apophlegmatis orta. 113 Apoplexia-, 177 881 cerebri. 770 fanguinea, 177 idiopathica. ib. catalepticay 193 mentalis, ib. ferofa, 1204 cerebelli. 195 partialis, 204 purulenta, 881, H37 traumatica, 1186 Apoplexie, 177 Apoplexy, 177 diagnofis, 183 fymptoms. 182 predifponent caufe, 184 occafional caufe, 185 proximate caufe, 189 prognofis, 187 indications of cure, 188 Apetite diminilhed, 28a Apoftem, 786 Apoitema, ib. Apofychia, 773 Apfychia, ib. Aphtha 1535 Apyrexia, 643 Apyrexy, iis digagnoftie, 647 predifponent canfe. 649 occafional caufe. 650 proximate caufe, 6 56 prognoftic, 6 sr cure, 658 fuppofed remedies, 669 Apyrexii, 643 Apurexia, ib. Apparatus, great. 181 z Appareil haut, 1799 Sreat> iSiz Arrangement of matter. 9 mode of. ib. proportion of, ib. confequenccs of, ib. fynonymes, ib*N- D EX. 579 I Archaeus, 86 Auditus difficilis, 731 Ardor flomachi, 706 Automaton, 23 urinae. 714, 1067 Autumnal remitting fever, 683 Ariftolochia, 114 Auxilia antiphlogiflica, 815 Ars medica, Hippocratica, Arthrocace, Arthritis, 89 ib. 760, 997 721 Auxilkjrn, . B 9* Artificial opening of im poft- Bacchia, J008 hume, *43 Bandage, 1634 Artery, 20 Bandaging, 1636 funftion of, 22 varieties. 1637 Arthrodynia, 7 25 Eaillement, 755 Arthropnolis, 990. 993 Balbuties, 729 articularis, 1 >55 Ball-wound, 1471 Arm-amputation, 1671 Bandage, 128 Ars obfletricia. 1581 Bark, Peruvian, 118 Arteriotomia, 2720 Bath, warm, Belly-future, 109 Artcriotomie, ib. 2644 Arteriotomy, ib. mode, 2645 ^ principles, 1721 feleftion of an arte- perforation, mode and inftru- z 761 ry. 1722 ments. 176a mode and inflru- Bee de lievre, *5 49 ment, *723 Beriberia, *542- deligation, 1724 Bclly-dropfy, 1221 Afafoetida, 220 hydrokele, 1221 Afarum, 113 diagnoflic, 122* Afcite, 1221 cure. 1224 Afcitcs,' ib. pneumatokclc. 1264 purutenta, II49 Bnx, •7o y ovarii. 1229 empyem, 1149 flatulentus, 1264 diagnoflic, I'59 Afphialfia, 726 . cure, 2'52 Afphyxia, 197, 770 hacmatokele, I '92 fpinalis, 204 diagnoflic, 1 '93 Afphyxie 770 cure. 1194 Afthenia, 728 Bilc-fwelling, 1575 Aflringentia, 121 Binding-up, 1636 Aftringents, ib. Birth, 1580 Aflhma, 70 5 non-natural, 1587 infantum, 749 Bile-fwclling, 1277 fpafmodicum, 748 Bilious fever. 683 fpontaneum. 749 diagnostics. 684 cunvulfivum, ib. fpecial cure, 688 lpaimodicum-fiatulcntum, ib. Bleeding, 2 70B flatulentum, ib. Blood-letting, 1708 nofturnum. 754 Bladder-perforation, 1763 Aflhme, 705 place. 1764 Atocia, 1587 mode and in Atherom, I1IO flrument, 1764 Atheroma, ib. Black-leg. 69 7 . Atoms, 3 jaundice, 719 Atonia, 728 flux. 234 Attraction of cohcfion, 4 Bladder-flux, 710 > 974 975 977 Attrahentia, Atrophia, III 761 diagnoflic, fpecial cure, Atrophic, ib. ifehury, 4D 2 1277N D 58° I E X, ib. Bladder rupture, 1374 Blaefitas, 729 Blackening fever, 60a Bleeding, 115, 137 Bleflure, 346, 1441 Blindnefs, 730 Blitters, 111 Blood-letting, 1708 Blood-fpitting, 217 cure, 334 cafe of Mr M. 224 fuppofed remedies, 327 Blood-vomiting, 231 purging, 234 fweating, 265 fwclling, 1158 Bloody-flux, 491 Blotch, 1289 Bone-fetting, 1824 Body, defined, i Bone-inflammation, 997 diagnaftic, 998 cure, 999 incurvation, 1553 Boil, 786, 1005 diagnortic, 1006 fpecial cure, 1007 Bone-fwelling, 1302 diagnoftic, I3°3 cure, I3°4 Brain-fever, 881 rupture, 1366 hydrokele, 1204 diagnoftic, 1205 Breaft-inflammation, 1040 fpecial cure, 1043 Breaft-amputation, 1684 mode, 1685 Ereath-obftrudtion, 15 73 mre, 1574 Bronchotomia, 17 5 6 Bronchotomie, ib. Bronchotomy, _ 17 56 mode and inftru- ments, 1757 Broken bone, 1482 Bronchocelc, 1124 Bronchokeli, ib. cure, 1225 Bruife, H(>9 Brulure, 1009 Bubo, IC49 Ample, _ 105° diagnoftic, J®5r cure, 1052 febrile, 1053 diagnoftic, ib. fpecial cure, 1054 fyphilitic, 2055 Bubo fyphilitic, diagnoftic, 1055 fpecial cure, 1056 fcrophulous, 1058 diagnoftic, ib. fpecial cure, 1059 cancerous, 1060 diagnoftic, ib. fpecial cure, lo6x Bubon, Babonocele, 1049 1377 Bullofa febris. 630 Burning, 1009 diagnoftic, 1010 fpecial cure, 1017 G Caftratio, 1689 Caftration, ib. mode. 1690 Cataraft, 1621 diagnoftic, 1622 cure. 1624 Catarafte, 1621 Cataraft-amputation, 1693 mode. 16 93 inftruments, 1694 Caefarian feftion. 1784 operation, ib. mode. 1785 Caeliacea, 707 Caeliacos, ib. Caeliaca paffio, fcib. Caeliaque paffion. ib. • Cacatoria, ib. Caecitas, 730 Cahexia ifterica, 1719, 7^1, 76a Calcul, 598 Calculus, ib. Calculous habit, 960 Calefacientia, in Calotis, 733 Camp dyfentery, 49^ fever, 483 Cancer, 15 25 occultus, ib. apertus, ib. Canine madnefs, 747 Cataphora, 751 Capiftrum, 743 Caput obftipum, 745 > 1554 Carbuncle, IOOI diagnoftic, 1002 fpecial cure, 1004 Carbunculus, ioor Carcinoma, *525 Cardialgia inflammatory, 9 29 fputatoria, 706 Cardiogmus, 1164 Cardionchus,INDEX. 581 ib. Catheter, life of, 1819 Catheterifm, 1819 Catheterifmus, ib. modes, 1820, 18a 1 Cauterifatio, 1835 Cauterifation, ib. mode and inflruments, 1836 Cauterium aftuale. 1836 potentiale, ib. Cardiaca, 120, 706 Carditis, 916 Carnofite de 1'urethre, 1335 Caruncle, ib. diagnoflic, 1336 cure, 1337 Caruncula, 1333 virgae. ib. Carus, 177 fpontaneus, ib. ab infolatione. Cardiogmos, 731 Cardirrhagia, 229 Caries, 1319 Catalepfic, 193 Catalepfy, ib. Catalcpfis, ib. Cataleptica mcntalis, ib. Cataphora coma, 177 Catarafla nigra, 73° Catafarca, 769 Cataflagmus, 704 Catatropha, 707 Catemeiinos, 673 Cathemerina, 680, 673 Catoche, 193 Catochus, 740 Cathartica, 127 Catharfis diapharyngos, 703 Cathartica, 108 Cathartics, ib. fpecification, ib. Catarrh, 703 Catarrhal fever, 461, 526 Catarrhexis, 234 Catarrhe, 703 Catarrhus, 70 3 ad peflus, ib. fenilis, ib. veficae, 710 ad nares. 704 fuffocatorius barbadenfis, 738 Caul-rupture, 1367 Caufa morbi, 36 remota, 57 occafionalis, 60 praedifponens, 58 proxima, 64 continens. ib. Caufe, 53 morbific, 56 remote, ib. predifponent, 58 Caufos, 46a Cauflica, 127 Cauteria, ib. Cau flics, ib. Cephalaea, 881 Cephalalgia inflammatoria. 881 Cephalitis, ib. Cercalia, 1^3 Cercofis, 1328 Cerebri abfeeflus, 881 fphacelus. ib. Ccflation of difeafe, 85 Charhon, loci Chjfvmie, 731 Chafmodia, 755 Chaude pifle, 1067 Chemiftry, 7 Chcmofis, 1023 Chemical morbific caufe. 6 Chcck-empyem, 1140 diagnoflic, 1141 cure, 114a Chefl-empyem, 1146 diagnoflic, 1147 cure, 1148 Chefl-haematokele, 1189 diagnoflic, 1190 cure. 1191 hvdrokele, 1214 dropfy, ib. pncumatokele, 1261 diagnofis, 126a cure, 1263 Chefl-perforation, 1758 mode and place, 1/59 inflruments, 1760 Chicken-pox defined, 609 occafional caufe. 6lo proximate caufe, 611 prognoflic. 61a fpecial cure, 613 Chilblains, 10ip cure, 1022 » 793 Child-bed lever, fit Child-bearing, J J 158a C hild-bed, ib. Chiragra, 7 zi Chincough, 7<o Chirurgica, xct8 Xsio t ;») 96 Chirmgicus, 97 97 Chiringus, ib. Chirurgien,I 5$2 E X N D Cholera, 707 Cholera morbus, ib. Chirurgic operation. 1628 Cholerica, ib. Cholicele, 1275 Choiikele, ib. diagnollic, 1276 cure, 1277 Choloma, 933 Chlorofma, 762 Chlorofis, ib. Chordapfus, 737 Chorea, 746 Sandti Viti, ib. Chronic rheumatilm, 725 Chute, 1392 de l’oeil, J396 du fondement. 1420 Chyliaria, 708 Cirfos, ”74 Cirfocele, 1177 Clap, 1067 diagnollic. 1068 'fpecial cure. 1072 Claudicatio, 733 Club-foot, J544 caufes. IJ45 cure, 1546 Clou, 1005 Clyfter, 933 Clunefia, 1062 Cophofis, 1568 Couching of the cataradl, 1692 Coche-mer, 754 Colica, 733 Cold, JI9 Colic, 756 fpafmodica et flatulenta, ib. plumbariorum, ib. faturnina, ib. damnonienfis, ib. ventriculi, 7c 6 Coliquc, ib. de Poitou, ib. Convolvulus, 1422 Convulfio tonica. 738 clrnica. 739 raphania, 744 Convulfion, 737 fits, 744 althma. 749 Contradlion, »542 Contradhira, ib. Contraflurc, ib. Colliquative fymptoms, 695 cure, 696 Collyrium, 1030 Colpoptofis, 1405 Columella, 140X Coma, 177 fphacelus, 88r Combature, 539 Combuflura, 1009 Compofrta ex acuto periodico, 639 Complicated fradlure, • 1485 Compound fradlure, ib. Condyloma, 1305 ganglion, 1126 clavus, »338 Congenial rupture, 1376 Confluent fmall pox, 605 Conlerving power. 8r Conflipatio, 720 Continens catexohen, 462 pntrida. 476 febris. 639 Continua non putrida, 462 periodica, ib. remittens, ib. proportionata, ib. Contrafifiura,’ *499 Confumption, 759 Contufion, 1469 Contufura, ib. Cophofis, 732 Coqueluche, 740 Cor, 1338 Corde, 1067 Cordials, 120 Cordinema, 755 Cordis dolor, 706 Coryza, '704 Corn, U58 cure. 1339 Corrofives, 127 Corruption, 788 Co (liven efs. 720 Coup de foleil, . *95 d’arme a feu. 1474 Ctofs-fiitch, 1086 Crochetting, 7156 Crachement de fang, 271 Crachettcment, 703 Cramp, 737 Ciampus, ib. Crafpcdon, 140 r Critical days, 88 Crifis morbid, 87 Crithe, 1122 Crouellcs, 788 Croup, 748 Crural rupture, 1379 Crufla ladtea. >533 Cure, indications of 99 means of, 132583 D E X. I N Curative view's, 99 Defluxio, 705, 707 Cucurbita cruenta, 1727 Deformitas, ‘539 ficca. 1728 Dcformis, ib. Cupping, 17*7 Deformitas, ib. Cutting the iris, 1754 Deformity, ib. mode and indru Defunftion, 26 ments, 1755 Dclachrymatio, 701 on the gripe. 1.8x1 Delirium, 279 Cynanche, 889 Dementia, 735 tonfillaris. ib. Demonia, ib. maligna, 577 Demonomania, ib. trachcalis. 748 Demulcents, 12S Cydotomia, 1792 Deplacement, ‘344 Cydotomrc, ib. Deobdruents, !I5 Cydotomy, ib. Depot, 786 preliminaries, 1794 Diabete, 708 high. 1799 Diabetes, ib. mode aud inffru- Diagnofis medical. 69 ments, 1800 Dialyfis, 1439 advantage, 1801 Diaphoretica, 109 objection. 1802 Diaphoretics, ib. lateral, 1804 Diaphthora, 706 mode and indru- Diarrhee, 707 ments. 1805 Diarrhoea, ib. difficulties. 1806 urinofa, ib. improvement, 1807 Weral in the female, 1809 cclfic, 1811 great, 18 la Cyftotomia cum apparatu alto, 1790 hypogaftrica, ib. lateralis, 1804 cum apparatu m'agno, 1812 Diaria, Diarrica, Diarroia ex aure, Diaitaiis, 539 707 708 1416 OyfHrrhagia, Cyftocele, CyfTiphlogia, Cyflitis, Cyflis, 24a 1374 974 ib. JI29 D Danfe de St Guy, 746 Dartre, *53* Day-fever, 461, 539 Deligation, 1632 forms, 1633 Delivery, 1582 Depreilion of the cdtaraft, 1692 Death defined, 26 fynonymes, ib. caufes of, 335 Deafnefs, 732 Debility, * ’ 310 Decay, 761 ib. Decline, Dcfeft of milk, 718 Dcfoedation, 765 Difeafe indicating amputation, 1654 Dilatatio vulneris, 1735 Dilatation of wound,. ib. mode and in- ftruments, 1736 Divifion of the (hare-bones, 178a mode, 1783 Diathefis calculofa, 960 fcminalis, 59 AistiTJjro'jj, 94 Dietetic medicine, 94 Dietetics, ib. Dipfacus, 708 Diffufcd humoral fwelling, 1287 blood fwelling, 1289 diagnoftic, 1290 terminations, 1291 cure, J29Z water-fwelling, 1293 diagnoftic, 1294 cure, 1295 air-fwelling, 1297 diagnodic, 1-2 98 cure, 1299 Difcrete fmall-pox, 604 Dicutients, 119 Difcutio, 78 2 Difcuflion, , , ib. Difeafe, •tar ziib. <84 index. Difeafe, how induced. 29 varieties of, ib its extent, 38 general. 39 local, 41 idiopathic, 43 primary, ib. fymptomatic. 44 fecondary, ib. acute, 46 chronic, 47 epidemic. 48 endemic. 49 fporadic. 5° hereditary. 51 malignant. 52 mild, benign, 53 contagions, infettious, 54 Diflocatio, 1344 Dilocation, 771, . *344 Difplacement, 2344 Diflohitio, 1439 Diflillatio, 704, 70c Diftorted pelvis. 155 7 Diftortio pelvis olTium, ib. Diftortion, 1539 . 1553 Diuretica, no Diuretics, ib. Diurefis, ib. Diarefis, 708 Divifion, _ 771, 1439 Dolor ventriculi, 929 lateris finiftri, 954 hypochondrii finiftri. ib. nephriticus, 956 oculi, 1023 dentium, 1032 otalgicus. 1038 ani, 1062 hypochondrii dextri, 945 podagrica. 721 arthriticus verus, ib. coxendicus, 727 ifchiadicus. ib. colicus Piftonum, 7 56 figulorum. ib. Douleur de portrine, 9I0 du foye, 945 de la rate, 954 aux mamelles. 1040 Drawing-out, 1773 Dropfy, 769 local, 1198 partial ib. of the brain. 1294 pericardial, 1218 ovary. I229 Drugs, 95 Dry cupping, 1728 mode, 1729 inftruments, 2 730 Dulnefs of hearing, 722 Dumbnefs, Durette d’oreille. 732 Dyefcaea, ib. Dyfecoia, ib. Dyfenteria hepatica, 234 hepatera, ib. fplenetica, ib. Dyfuria fyphilitica. 1067 a phlogofi urethrae, ib. arfura. ib. Dyfphagia, 15 70 Dyfphagy, ib. Dyfiocia, 1587 E Ear-bleeding, 215 haemorrhage. ib. flux, 702 obflruftion, 1568, 1569 inflammation, 1038 fpecial cure. io39 Ecchymom, 1289 Ecchymoma arteriofnm. 1169 venofum, 1181 Ecchymofis, 1289 Ecclampfia, 744 Ecclampfis, ib. Eftopia, 13 Eccoprotica, 108 Eftropium, 1399 Effimera, Effuiion, 539 279 Ernqfculatio, 1689 Embryotomia, 1786 Embryotomie, ib Embryotomy, ib. fmode and inftruments, 1747 Emhryulcia, 1786 Emiffio fanguinis, 1708 Elerftricity, 120 Elephanti morbus, 767 Elephantia Arabum, 767 Elephantiaris, ib. Elcphas, ib. Elcofls, I304 Elytrocele, 1381 Emetic tartar, 107 Emctica, 106 Emetics, ib. Emollient, * 122 Emoptoe, 217 Emoptoys, ib. Emoptoica paflio,VOL. II. 4 b t I N D E X. 5*5 F.hianfio menfium, 716 Epifchefis, 713 I mmenagoga, ”5 Epi (taxis, 170 ] mmenagogues, Emphyfem, ib. Epifthontonos, 74X 1297 Epifpaftics, in j mphyfema, 1*57, 1297 Epulie, I33X EmpneumatofiS, 1*57 Epulis, ib. Emproflhotonos, 741 Errana, 676 Emprofthotony, ib. Erratica, ib. Empyeme, Empyocele, 1146 Errhinna, ”3 1075 Errhines, ib. Empyem, “33 Error loci. 1344 Empyema, ib. Eruptive fever, 461 , 542, 600 diagnoftic, 1134 Eryfipelas, 555. X09P cure, 1*35 perniciofum, 555 capitis. ”37 Ervfipelc, 1090 antri maxillaris, 1140 Erythema, ib. oculi, ”43 Efchara, 862 peCtoris, 1146 Efcharotica, 127 abdomina, 1149 Efquinancie, 889 tunica vaginalis, JX5 2 Efleia, 677 articuli, ”55 fever. ib. Empyocele fcroti, 115* Etefie, 761 Enteroraphia, 164a Euphalgia, 578 Enteroraphy, ib. Evacuantia, 104 Enterotomia, 1780 Evacuants, EvanouifTement, ib. Enterotomie, ib. 707 Enterotomy, ib. Evulfio dentis, 16916 mode, 1781 Exhara, 862 Encauma, Encaufis, I009 Exharotica, 127 708 Exania, 142a Encephalocele, 1366 Exany, ib. Enema, Encephalonofos, 9 33 cure, 1421 881 Exarthrcma, 1426 Encyftia, itoj Excitability, *5 Encyfled fwelling. 1129 Excoriation, 1477 Energy, *5 F.xcoriatura, ib. Engelure, 1619 Excrefcencc, 771 Enterocele, 1369 Excrefcentia, ib. vulgaris. 1380 Exfoliatio, 863 Entero-epiplocele, 1375 Exfoliation, ib. Enterophlogia, 937 Exomphales, 1376 Enteritis, ib. Exomphalus, ib. Entropium, 1399 flatulentus, -1264 Enurefis, 708 Exophthalmia, X3 9<> Envenomed wound, *478 Exophthalmic, ib. Ephidrofis, 700 Exophthalmy, diagnofis, ib. Ephimera, 539 «397 Ephialtes, 754 cure. 1398 Epibole, 754 Exotofe, 1302 Epiphora,' 701. 1364 Exotofis, ib. Epileplia, 744 Expeftorantia, 112 nofturna, 754 Expectorants, ib. Epilepfie, 744 Expectoration* 7.05 Epilepfy, ib. Extafis, 770 Epine venteufe, 997 Exftrcatus, 703 Epiploitis, 987 Expuitio frequens, ' ib. Epiplegia, 206 External inflammation, 1000 Epiplocelc, 1367 head hydrocele, ”93 Epifardicium, 769 Extravafation, 1186586 I N I> E X Exudatio, 78a Exudation, ib. Exemptio, 1773 corporum extraneorum, 1775 Excifio bulbi carnofi, li>8L Exploratio, 1847 Extirpatio polypi, 170a' •Extrafiing, 1773- Extra&io, ib. Extradtion, ib. varieties, 1774 of the ftone in -the fali- vary du£ls, ' 18x7 of the cataradt, 169a Sye-empyem, 1143: diagnoflic, 1144 cure, 1145 dropfy, lau bleeding, 213 diagnoflic, 214 extirpation, 1681 mode, 1682 perforation, 175a mode and in ments, 1753. F Fabric, Fainting, 770 Falling licknefs, 744 down, 1392 of the body. 1420 Farinacea, 103 Fat oil. 1-22 Fatuitas, 735 Eafcia, 1634 Febrile form. 671 type, ib. Eebris, 266 continens, *75 > 476 continua. ib. 677 inflammatoria, 462, 776 audta fanguinea. 462 feptimanaria, ib. lenta, 469. 693 mali moris, ib. putrida. 476 , dyfenterica. 491 continua compofitainflam- matoria, 776 pneumonica, 910 ftomachica inflaipmatoria, 929 jnteflinorum inflamfna- toria, 937 iliaca inflammatoria, ib. iftcriodes, 945 typhodes, ih. Febris uterina. 98* alba. 672 heftica, 693 fymptomatica, 691 biliofa, 674. 683 continua, acerbans, 639 . 681 amatoria, 762 miliaris, 508- punfticularis, ib. eflerola. ib. culicaris, ib. veficularis, ib. purpurata, ib. catarrhalis, 526 inflativa, 539 exanthematica. 54* peftilentialis. 544 pefiilens. ib. eryfipelatofa, 555 fcarlatina, 565 anginofa, 57<S variola, 57& expulfionis, 600 morbillofa-, 614 urticata, 625 intermittens, 639 recurrens, ib. continua periodica. 677 paroxyfmalis, ib» proportionata, ib. podagrica, 721 Felon, 1045 Femoral rupture. 1379 Fente, 1537 Feu de St Antoine, 555 facre, 1090 Fever dyfenteric, 491 diagnoflic, 493 predifponent cauie, 499 occafional caufc, 500 proximate cauie, 5°4 fpecial cure. 502 fuppofed remedies, 507 Fever-and-flux, 491 Fever-role, 555 of eruption. 600 of expulfion. ib. of maturation, 601 miliary, 508 diagnoflic. 509 occafional cauie, 5X1 fpecial cute. 513 child-bed, 515 diagnoflic, 516 predifponent caufc, 5X8 proximate eaufe. 5* X fpecial cure. 522 catarrhal, 526N D E X* 5s? Fever catarrhal, diagnoflio, 527 occafional caufe, 528 fpecial cure, 529 rheumatic, 530 diagnoftic, 531 predifponent caufe, 532 occafional caufe, proximate cauie, prognoflic, fpccialty of cure, day, cure, eruptive, varieties, fufceptibility of univcrfally the fame, demonflration, varieties of, idiopathic, continued, diagnofis, fymptoms of, predifponent caufe, .occafional caufe, proximate caufe. 342, 333 334 333 336 339 341 600 •343 266 269 270 461. 272 274 27 3 276 279 292 293 300 fuppofed proximate caufe,310 'Fever inflammatory, diagnoftic, predifponent caufe, occafional caufe, prognoflic, fpecial cure, nervous, diagnoftic, predifponent caufe, occafional cauie, prognoflic, fpecial cure, inflammatory and nervous diagnoftic, predifponent caufe, occafional caufe, proximate caufe, fpecial cure, Fever, fymptoms of ex- plained, 323 duration of, prognoflic, cure, indications of cure, fuppofed remedies, putrid, diagnofis, predifponent caufe, occafional caufe, proximate caufe, prognoflic, fpecial cure. Ficus, 462 463 463 466 467 468 469 47Q Fibre, varieties of, not unravelled, Fievre, nerveufe, continue maligne, ib. continue, eryfipelateufe, rouge, fcarlatine, vcficulaire, quotidienne, tierce, quartaine, erratique, quotidienne continue pu- tride, de St Dominique, fymptomatique, heftique, lente, maligne cerebrale. Film, cure, Fire, 103, 120 Fiftula aril, Fillet, Fiflul’ operation, mode aqd inftrument, Fiflura, Fiflure, Fiftula, 249 9. lachrymalis, falivalis. 471 peranaei, 472 Flatulentia, 473 Flelh-fwelling, 474 diagnoftic. b 476 caufe, 477 termination 478 cure, 479 Fleurs blanc, 480 Flooding, 481 modifications. caufes, [•332 cure, 333 fpeciality, 336 without or before 337 nancy, 339 during pregnancy, 343 cure, 483 after parturition, 484 caufes, 485 cure, . 486 Fluxio, 487 Fluxus hepaticus, 488 fpleneticus, 489 haemorrhoid alisx 2342 Flow, 4 E 2 16 27 iS 466 469 681 476 335 565 ib. 630 673 *74 675 676 680 683 691 693 ib. 926 2333 2334 ', 227 1062 1634 2770 1772 2337 ib. 2516 1327 ib. ib. 7®6 2303 1306 2307 2308 2309 711 246 247 249 230 231 252 2 56 238 260 261 262 70 y 224 ib 2 37 6<jHD 5B8 1 N E X. ib. flap-amputation, 1658 Gaftrodynia, 706 mode, 1659 biliofa. 736 Fluor albus. 71' flatulenta, ib. muliebris, ib. Gaflrotomia, 1784 Flux, 698 Gaftrotomy, ib. haemorrhoidal. 237 Generative power. 80 hepatique, 234 Genital-inflammation, 1065 Fore-arm-amputation, 1675 Gerfure, *537 Speciality, 1676 Gibber, *534 Fontanella, IJI3 Gibbofitas, ib. Fontanelle, 115 Gibbofity, ib. Foot-lever, *435 caufes. *555 Foot-gout, 724 cure. *556 Formicatio, 728 Glaucoma, i62r Formido, 731 Glaucofis, ib. Forming energy, 73 Glauber-falts, 108 Fradtura, 1482 Gleet, 7°9 Simplex, 1484 Glengore, 766 compofita, 1485 Glus, 708 complicata. ib. Glyflcr, 9.33 Fradture, Simple, I482 Gonagra, 723 compound, M85 Gonorrhec, 709 diagnollic. X487 Gonorrhoea, ib. caufes, 1489 in Scrotum delapfa, 1075 prog no flic, 1490 Syphilitica, 1067 cure. 1491 virulenta, ib. complicated. 1485 Gonprrhee virulente, ib. callous. 1492 Gouetre, 1124 reduction, 1494 Gout, 721 retention, 1496 Goutte Serene, 730 of the (kull, 1499 Grando, 1122 Frambaefia, 766 Gravedo, 704 Friftion, 122 Gravel, 958 Frigid humoral fwelling, IIOI Gravelle, ib. circumscribed, 1103 Great pox, 766 Function after amputation, 1655 Green ficknefs. 762 Fullnefs, 139 Groin-rupture, *377 varieties. 140 G ullet -ob llrudtion, *570 Fungus, 1461 cure, *572 Fungus articulorum, 760. 124 Gum, 122 Furuncle, 1005 farcom, *330 Furunculus, ib. boil, 1038 G. inflammation, 1038 Galadtitia, 712 Special cure, 1039 Galadtirrhoea, ib. Gun-lhot wound. 1474 Gale, *532 Gut-inflammation, 937 Gall-obftru£tion, *575 diagnollic. 938 Ganglion, 1126 Special cure, 940 diagnollic, 1127 rupture, obllrudh'on, 1369 cure. 1x28 *576 Gangraena, 788 cure, 1577 Gangraene, ib. Suture, 1642 humide. ib. mode, 1643 Garlic-root, Hi Gut-and-caul-rupture, *375 Gaftric rupture. X368 Gutta opaca, 1621 Gaflritis, 929 roSea, 1008 Gaflrocele, ib. rofacca, ib. Caftroraphia, Galtroraphy, 1644 Serena, 730\ i: N D E X. 5S9 H Haemorrhifie, 246 Haemorrhoidal fwelling, 137 Haematocele, nj8, 1195 dux, ib. arteriofum, UJ9 Haemorrhoids, ib. venofum, ii75 Haemorrhois, ib. cerebri. 1186 Hand, 128 pefloralis. j 189 gout. 722 pleuritica. ib. Herpes, 1531 abdominis. 1191 Headach, 282 perit -nealis, ib. Head-empyem, ”37 fcroti. II9J diagnofiic. 1138 diflufa. 1289 cure, 1139 Haematokelc, 1158 haematokelc, 1186 Haemoptae, 217 diagnofiic. 1187 Haemoptyfie, ib. cure, 1188 Haemoptyfis, ib. Healing by the firft intention, 782 Haemitriteus, 680 Healing art, 89 Haemorrhage, *37 power. 82 idiopathic, J47i 152 Health, 27 fymptomatic, 148 Heat of urine. 1067 paffive, ib. Heart-inflammation, 916 traumatic. ib. diagnofiic. 9*7 vulnerary, ib. fpecial cure, , 918 arterial, I49 burn. 706 venous. JJO beating, 7 5* nofe, I70 bleeding. 229 caufes. 173 always mortal, 230 prognofis. 174 Hcftic fever, 693 cure, 175 diagnofiic. 694 fpccial treat- Hefiica, 693 ment. 176 Hematemefis, 231 brain, 177 Hemiplegia, 200 fpontaneous, 147 cx apoplexia. ib. aftive, ib. Hemiplegie, ib. Haemorrhage prevented during Hcmiplcgy, ib. amputation, 1660 Hemiplexv, ib. mode. 1661 Hepatalgia, 945 Hamorrhagia, 137 petitiana. 127 S narium, 170 Hepatica atonia, 234 uterina. 246 Hepatinhoea, ib. cerebri, 177 Hepatitis, 945 aftiva. il>. Hepatocelc, i3;o palfiva, 148 cruralis. 1379 Haemorrhagic (late, 137. IJ3 fcmoralis. ib. diagnosis, 155 congenita. 13,-8 fymptoms, inguinalis, 1377 predifponent caufes, 158 fcrotalis, ib. oacafional caufes, 159.169 Hernia, 1346 proximate caufe, 161 Hernic, ib. prognofis, 102 Hernia humoralis, 1075 cure, l63 purulenta. H52 indications of cure, fanguinea, XI95 164. r68 aquofa, 123 a luppofcd remedies, 168 ctre'iri, 1366 varieties, 169 ornentalis. 1367 Haematuria, 24a intefiinalis, 1369 Haematopedefis, 265I N D E X, 59° Hernia hepatica, 1370 fpleniea, 1371 renalis, 1372 uterina, 1373 veficalis, X374 ovularis. 1380 ifchiatica. 1381 dorfalis, ib. perinaealis. ib. vaginalis. ib. ventralis, 1382 abdominalis, ib. lirangulata, 1385 incarcerata. ib. Hernial fwelling, 1346 Herniary tumour. ib. Herpetic ulcer. 1531 Hcrniotomia, 1830 Herniotomie, ib. Herniotomy, ib. Heterogeneity, 6 Hiccough, 753 Hiccup, ib. Hip-amputation, 1667 fpeciality, 1668 Hip-rheumatifm, 1727 Hiftoria morbi, 69 Hiftory of difeafe. ib. Homogeneity, 5 Hooping-cough, 750 Hordeolum, 1122 Hofpital fever. 483 Humor, 21 vellels of. 22 motion of, ib. Hydarthrus, 1246, 1249 fynovialis, 1249 flatukntus, 1272 Hydatid, 1298 Hydatis, ib. Hyderos, 1257 Hydroa, <>3°: . 1198 Hydrocardia, I2J 8 Hydrocyftis, 1198 Hydrocele, ib. articularis, 1246 cerebri. 1204 brain, ib. diagnoftic, 1205 cure, 1207 eye, 12r 1 diagnoftic, 1212 cure, 1213 occuli, I 211 pc&oris, 1214 pleuritic, 1216 diagnoftic, 1217 cure, 1218 Hydrocele plenritka, 1216 pericardial, 1218 diagnoftic, 1219 cure, 1220 pericardii, 1218 peritonaei, 1221 uterina, 1226 ovarii, 1229 fcrotalis, 12.3 a Hydrocephale interne, 1204 exteme, 1293 Hydrocephalus interior, 1204 internus, ib. externus, 1293 Hydrokele, 1198 Hydrometra, 1226 ovarii, J229 Hydropedefis, 700 Hydrophobia, 747 Hydrophobie, ib. Hydropheby, ib. Hydi ophthalmia, I2u Hydrophthalm-ie, ib. Hydrophthalmus, ib. Hydrophthalmy, ib. Hydrops, 769 univerfalis, ib. Hydrops ad matulam, 708 localis, 1198 cranii, 1204 thoracis, 1214 pulmonis, 12x6 pericardii, 1218 area, 769 abdominis, 1221 uteri, 1226 feroti, 12j2 teftis, 123a articuli, 1246 ficcus, 1264 flatulentus, ib. veficae, 714 Hydropifie, 769 du perkarde, 1218 de la matrice, 1226 Hydropfis vera, 769 Hygieine, 92 Hygroma, 1198 Hydrothorax, 1214, Jzx6 pleurae, ib. pericardii, 1218 Hyperotofis, 1302 Hypochondriaca afTeflio, 736 Hypochondriacifm, ib. Hypochondriacifmus, ib. Hypochondriacus morbus, ib. Hypochondrofis, ib, Hypochcndrie, ib.N D E X. I 59*• Hypocopofis, 73a Hypercatharfis, 707 Hyperfarcofis, 1461 Hypofarca, 13a* Hypophyon, 1026 fpecial cure, 1027 Hypopyon, 1143 Hypoltophyl, 1401 cure. 1402 Hypoftaphyle, 1401 Hyphnotica, Ir9 Hyfterica, 745 Hyfterics, ib. Hyfterocele, 1373 nuda, 1405 Hyfteritis, 981 Hyfterophofi, 1267 Hyflerophofis, J405 Hypochyfis, 1621 Hyfterotomatocia, 1784 Hyfterotomia, ib. Hyfterotomy, ib. Incontinentia urinae, 70S Incraflantia, 103 Incubus, 754 Indicata medendi, 99 Indication of cure, ib. Indicatio morbi, 87 Infebricilalio, 643. Inflatio uteri, 1226, 1267 Inflammatio, 776' cordis et pericardii, 916 ventriculi, 929 inteftinorum, 937 hepatitis, 945 uteri, 981 uterina, ib. peritonaei, 987 Inflammation, 279. 776 diagnofis, 775 progreCs, 776 ftages, 777 adhefive, 778 effufive, 780,785 feat of, 799 proximate caufe, 800 fuppofed proximate 87 caufes, 802 prognoftic, 810 ’ixT^og, Iftere jaune, noir. 89 cure, 8n 719 difcuflion, 812 ib. indications of cure, 813 Ifteritia, nigra et viridis, ib. diaphragmatic, 926 fiava, ib. du fondement, 1062 alba. 7 6z de cerveau, 88r Iflfrus, 7*9- 1575 du cocur, 916 flavus, ib. de pericarde, 920 niger, 'ib. de l’opiploon. 987 viridis. ib. de matrice, 981 albus, 761 de vellie, 974 Ignis facer, 555 des reins, 95 6 Pcrfica, 1001 de mediaftine. 923- volaticus. *533 de l’eftomac, 929. Ileos haematitis, 697 de boyaux, 937 Ileus, 1422 de foye. 945 ifterodcs, 719 de la rate,. 954 Tliaca paffio. 1422 Inflamed fivelling, 776 Iliac paflTon, ib. Inflammatory fever, 461 Ilicis, 762 Inflammatory and nervous fever , ib. Illachrymatio, 701 Influenza, 526 Ill-digefHon, 706 Inguinal rupture. 2377 Rias haematitis, 210 Injection, 933 Impetigo, 765, I53i Injeftio, 1849 Impofthumation, 785 Injefling, ib. Tmpofthume, 786 mode and inftruments. ib. Impuiflancc d’ejaculation, 7i5 Iujeflio viarum lachrymalium, 1852 Incitantia, . 120 faucialis. 1853 Incarcerated rupture, 1385 gaftrica, Incendium virgac, 1067 auricularis, i8je Incontinence of urine, 708 urethralis, 1856592 I N D E X. Injedtio veficalis. 1836 Ifchias ex abfcefTu, 990 ib. uterinae, . 1837 Ifchiagra, inteftinalis, 1858 Ifchiatic rupture. 2381 Injedtion lachrymal, 1812 Ifchiatocelc, ib. throat. 1853 Ifchiocele, ib. ftomach, 1854 Ifchouria, 714 ear, 1855 Ifchuria, ib. urethre, 1856 veficalis, I278 bladder, ib. Ifchury, 714 womb, 1857 Ifchury, 1378 gut,1! 1858 Ifliie-making, 1843 wound, 1839 mode and inrtrument, 1846 ulcer, Incifio, i860 1706 J redti imperforati. 183 a Jail dirtemper, 293 Jncifion, ib. fever. 483 varieties, Inoculation of fmall-pox, 1707 Jallop root, I08 606 Jaundice, 719 ib. of meafles, 626 Jaunifle, Inoculating, 1843 Joint-inflammation, 993 Inoculatio, ib. diagnortic, 993 Inoculation, ib. fpecial cure. 994 mode, 8cc. 1844 empyem, 1135 Jn-lying, 1382 diagnortic, 1136 In-putting. 1838 cure, U57 Inferting, ib. hydrokele, 1246 Infitio, ib. diagnortic. 1247 Jntrodudtio, 1838 cure, 1248 Introdudtion, ib. dropfy, 1246 Infania, 7 35 pneumatocele, 127 z Infanity, ib. diagnofis. 1273 Inordinate adtion. 3* cure. 1274 Infolatio, 19 5 tontradlion, 1542 Infolation, ib. cure, *543 Infpiflantia, Infultus febrilis, 103 640 K epilepticus. 744 Kelotomia, 1830” Intercus, 769 Kelotomy, ib. Inffruments, 128 mode and inrtruments >1831 Intermiflion, 643 Kirfotomia, ' 1/33 Intermittens, 674 Kibe, 1019 Intermittent fever, 639 Kidney-flux, 708 Internal head-dropfv, 1204 rupture, 1372 Intertinal inflammation, 937 inflammation, 95 6 rupture, 1369 diagnortic, 957 Interval, 643 King’s evil. 7 37 Intcrvallum lucidum. ib. Kinkcough, 750 IntufTufception, I4.22 Knee-gout, 7=3 diagnortic, 14*3 Knife, 128 cure, Intwining of the hair. 1424 768 L Inverfio uteri, Inverfion of the womb. 1409 Labarium, 1549 ib. Labium leporinum, ib. diagnortic, 1410 Lacerated wound, 1466 cure. 1411 Laceration, ib. Iron 121 Laceratura, ib. Irregular ague, 676 Lachrymae morbofac. 701 Zfchias, 7*7 Ladtis redundantia, 712I N D E X. 593 Ladreritf, 767 Lagophthalmiis, 1399 Lagocheilos, *J49 Lagoftoma, i b. La medicine. 89 La bofle, 1554 La fievre matelotte, 683 La gangrene feche. 876 La fynoque. 462 La pefte, 544 La ebartre, 753 La goutte. 721 La feiatique, 7*7 La lepre. 767 La plique, 768 La tympanitej 1264 Labour, 1582 pain, 1583 throe, ib. difficult, IJ87 Laryngotomia, 1756 La maladie de Siam, 683 Lapfus, 863 Larmoyement, 701 Latica, 680 Latyphrofyne, 735 Lavement, 933 Laxatives, 108 Laxatis inteftinorum, 707 Lead, 119 Leanncfs, 761 Leeching, 1731 Leinteria, 707 Lcntor, 3to Lconitas, 767 Lepra, 767 Graecontm, ib. Leprofy, ib. L’Ephimere, 539 Le miliot. 508 Le tic, 743 Le hoquet. 735 Le nouage, 764 Leg-amputation, 1673 fpeciality, 1674 Les ecrouelles, 757 Lcthargus, *77 Lethargy, ib. Leucorrhoea, 711 Leucorrhois, 707 Leucoma, 1.333 Lcucophlegma, 769 Leucophlegmatia, ib. Lever, Lichen, 128 1533 Lienis inflammatio, 954 Lienterie, 707 Lientery, vol. ir. ib. Life, definition of, 25 Life, fynonymes of, 25 Ligatio, 1639 Ligature, ib. Light, 120 Limit, mutual, of phvfic and furgery, 132 Lingon, 753 Linguae inflatio, 1403 retractio, ib. Lint fcraped, 151a Lippitudo, 1023 ferrofa, 701 Lipom, 1325 diagnoftic, 1326 cure, 1327 amputation, 1700 mode, 1701 Lipoma, *3*5 Lithiafis, 960 Lithontriptica, 124 Lithontriptics, ib. Lithotomia, 1788 Franconia, 1799 Chefcldeniana, 1804 DouglafCana, ib, Lithotomie, 1788 Lithotomy, ib. Liver-inflammation, 945 diagnoftic, 946 fpecial cure, 947 rupture, 1370 Local pain, 279 Lochia immodica, 246 Lochiorrhoea, ib. Lochiorum fupprtftio, 717 Locomotion, peculiar to an ani- mal, 23 Locked jaw, 743 Loin-inflammation, 990 diagnoftic, 99 r cure, 992 rhcumatifm, 726 Lordofis, 726 valgorum, 1544 varorum, ib. Loupe, noy graifteufe, III 2, 1325 Loxarthrus, 1540 Lues venerea, 766 Lumbago, 726 venerea, 763 apoftematofa, 990 abfeeflu, ib. ab arthrocace, ib. pfoadica, ib. Lung-boil, 904 y consumption, iegg 4F594 I N D E X. j Lung-ulcer, IJ38 Lupia, it 05 fteatoma. 1325 Luxatura, 1426 Luxatio, ib. Luxation, ib. diagnoftic,, 1428 caufes, 1429 cure, repofition. 1430 I432 retention. 1437 Luxating, 1696 Lypothimia, 770 Mi- Macies, 761 Machines, 128 Madnefs, 7 35 Magnefia, 126 Malady, 28 Maladie miliare. jo8 noire. 234 Malaena, ib. Malformation, 1539 Malignant fever, 483 ulcerous fore throat, 577 auginous fever, ib. fquinfey, ib. Maligne haematite, 680 Malum hyfterico hypochondria- cum. 745 ifchiadicum. 727 hyflericum, 745 Mai du reins, 726 Mai aux yeux, 1023 dents, 1032 Mammillae inflammatio. J040 Mammae phlegmone, ib. Mani, 733 Marafmus, 761 Marcor, ib. Maflodynia, 1040 Mater puerorum, 744 Materia medica, 1 100 heads of, J02 Materies calculola, 958 Maturantia, 837 Maturation, dot Matter, homogeneous, 1 5 heterogeneous, 6 its fpecific qualities, 8 fynonymes, 1 generic qualities. 2 ultimate parts of. 3 Mealies fever, 614 diagnoftic, 615 predifponent caufc, 618 Meades fever, occafional caufe, Gig proximate caufe, 621- prognoftic, i 622 fpecial cure. 623 inoculation of. 624 Meatuum obftruOio, 1560 Mechanical inflaming applica tions, 795 medicine, 9r Mechanica, 128 Mechanics, ib. Mediaflina, Mediaftinal inflammation, 923 ib. diagnoftic, 924 fpecial cure, 925 Mediaftini inflammatio. 923 Medical diagnofis. 69 prognofis. 7t Medicamen, 91 Medicamentum, ib. Medicina, 89 prophylaftica, 92 dietetica, 94- chirurgica, 96 Medicine, 89 pharmaceutic. 95 divilion of, 131 hiftory of. 135 Medico-chirurgicus, 133 Medicus, 9P Melancholia,. 733 hypochondriaca, ■ 736 nervea. 745 Melanchterus, 719- Melafrfteus, ib. Melicere, mi Meliceris, ib. Melliflavium, ib. Memoriae imbecilitas, 733 Menagoga, 115 Menorrhage, 246 Menorrhagia, ib. Mentis alienata, 733 Mercury, H4 fweet, 108 Meroccle, 1379 Mefenteric confumption, 758 Meteoiifmus, 1264 Mcthemerina, 680 Method, lateral, 1804 Methodus medendi, 99 fratris Jacobi, 1804 Mariana, ib. 1812 Guidiniana, 1811 parvo apparatu. ib. apparatu magno, 1812 Metritis, Metiorrhagia, 981 716- Midlus fanguineus, 241. 1I E X. N D 595 ib. xaducus viridcllus. Miftus ententes, 242 Morbus ftrangulatorius, 748 Miliary fever, 461 truculentus infantum, 748 Milk cruft. 1533 virgincus. 762 flux, 712 Mors apparens. 770 Miferere, 1423 fiibitania. ib. Modus operand!, 130 Mortificatio, 788 Mole, 1119 Mortification, 279, 778, 848 diagnoftic, it 20 fuppofed termination, 789 fpecial cure. Hit . predifponent caufe, 790 Moilt-cupping, Morbid predifpofition, 1727 occafional caufe, 79* 59 prognoftic, 853 ftate. 64 cure, 855 fymptom, 66 tendency to, 856 prime, 67 Motion, 120 ends, 87 Mouth-bleeding, 210 Morbific caufe defined, 56 diagnofis, 211 remote, defined, 57 fpccial cure, 212 predifponent. 58 flux, 703 occafional, 60 Mucus, 122 chemical occafional, 6I Mules, 1019 mechanical occafional, 61 Muftard flour. III Morbilli, 614 Mutitas, My 0 colit is, 729 confluentes, Morbus, .565 28 987 traumaticus, univerfus. 1441 39 N externus, 41 Naeud, 1302 localis, ib. Narcotica, Narrow bafon. 119 organicus. ib. 155 7 chirurgicus. ib. Natural cure, 85 Lazarus, 1504 Naufea, 706 fympathicus, 45 Navel-rupture, 13 76 acutiflimus, 46 tying. 1646 acutus, ib. mode. 1647 peracutus. ib. Nerofis, 876 chronicus, 47 Neph ralgia, 956 febrilis, 266 Nephritis, ib. criticus, ib. Nephrocele, 1372 conftriftorius. 7i3 Nephrotomy, I790 miliaris, '08 mode, 1791 exanthematicus, 542 Nettle-rafh-fever defined, 62 5 clefeftivus, 770 diagnoftic, 626 polymorphos, 697 occafional caufe, O27 polyrizzos, ib. prognoftic, 628 arquatus flavus, 719 fpecial cure, 6iO regius, ib. Night-mare, 754 coxarius, febrilis phlogifticus. 727. 990 Nigrae dejeftiones. 234 776 Nifus parturitionis. 3.?83 acutus febrilis, ib. Nodus, 1302 nieer, tumidofus, 334 Noma, 152 s 771 Noli me tangere, ib. convulfivus, 737 Non-naturals, 94 ipafticus, ib. Nofe-fiux, 704 tonicus. ib. obftruftion, ij66 divinus, 744 cure, 3367 Herculeus, ib. Nofologia, 69 comitialis, ib. Nofology, 69. 13 6. 771 Nuaes defined, 4 F 2 28E X. I 596 N D Noxiae, 2J Nutrients, 103 Nymphotomia, 1691 Nymphotomy, ib. Oak, 121 Obliquitas uteri, X419 Oblivia mprbofa, 735 Obftipitas, 745.151:4 Obftipation, ih. Obftruftion, 713. 716. 771. 1560 diagnoftic, 1562 cure, *563 organic, 1561 mechanic, ib. Obftmfliotrachaea, 1573 intcrtinalis, 1576 Obftetricimn, 1581 haematite, 1786 Obliteration of the pupil, 1626 cure, 1627 Obtunders, 122 ©ccafional morbific caufe, 60 Operation for cheft-hydrokele, 1758 pneumatokele, ib. hiSh. 1799 lateral, 1804 for rupture, 1830 Operation caefarienne, 1784 Operatio chirurgica, 1628 ad empyema, 1758 ad haematocelen, ib. ad hydrothoracem, ib. ad pneumatofin, ib., ad afcitem, 1761 ad tympanitem, ib. ad hydrokelen pallia- tiva, 1768 ad fiftulam ani, 1770 figaultiana, 1782 Ophifhotomy, 74a Ophthalmia, 1023 luppurata, 1143 Ophthalmic, 1023 Ophthalmorrhagia, * 213 Ophthalmitis, 1023 Ophthalmoponica, 1023 Occulfion, Oculi lachrymofi, 1560 Ophthalmy, ib. 701 difiinftion, diagnoftic, 1024 inflammatio. 1023 1025 Odontalgia, fuppurata, 103a Opium, 109. XI9 1140 Opodeocele, 1379 Odontirrhoea, aij Opportunitas, 59 Oeconomy animal, vegetable. a3 Oreillon, 1035 24 Organization, 15 Oedema, 769 derangement, 28 Oedeme, ib. fource of quality, 30 Oefophagotomia, 1777 Organizing principle, 73 Oefophagotomie, ib. Orgeolet, 1123 Oefophagotomy, ib. Ofcheocele, IP75 mofte, 1778 vaticofa, 1177 Offufcatio, * 730 cruenta, aquofa, JI95 Oil eflential, 120 1232 Olfaftus amiffio, 731 fiatulenta. 1270 Omental rupture. 1367 Ofcedo, 755 Omentites, 987 Ofcheophyma fanguinea, 1195 Omphalocele, 1376 aquofum, 1233 Oncotomia, 1733 Ofcitatio, 755 Oncotomy, ib. Ofphialgia, 726 mode and inftruwcnts, 1734 Offium rcceftus, 1426 Oneirodynia, 754 Otalgia, 1038 Ongelet, 1332 • Otites, ib. Onyx, ib. Otoplatos, ib. Operation, 128. 1628 Otopuofis, ib. objeft, 1629 Otorrhoea, 215 . 703 mode, 1630 traumatica, ib. modifications, 1631 Out-breaking, 765 of trepan, for chcft-cmpyem, 1737 Ovary-hydrokele, 1229 1758 diagnoftic. 1230 hacmatokele, , ib. cure. I23<ib. Perforator, Paronychic, \ I N D E X. 597 Out-ftriking fever. 542 • J?arotid, 1035 Ozacna, 1536 fpccial cure. 1036 maxillaris, JI40 Parotide, 1035 ib. ib. Ozaene, J536 Parotidis phlegmone, Parotis, P Particles, Paroules odentagra, a 103a Paedarthrocace, 99 7- 130a Parulis, ib. Pain of the back, 28a Paroxyfme de fievre. 640 Pales couleurs. 762 Paroxyfmus febriiis, ib. Palliative cure of hydrokcle , 1768 Partial death, 788 Palmos, 751 Parturitio, 158a Palpitatio, ib. Parturition, ib. Palpitation, ib. ordinary. J5.85 Palpitation de coeur, ib. common, ib. Pali'y, 728 eafy. ib. Pamoifon, 770 natural, ib. Panaricum, 1045 extraordinary, 158; Panaris, ib. lingering. 159° Panariticum, ib. caufes, 1591 Pandiculatio, 755 non-natural, 159° Panis, >332 Partus, 158a Panophobia, 735 difficilis, 1587 Paraceutefis, 1706 caefareus, J784 oculi. 1752 Pathologia, 69 thoracis. 1758 Pathology, ib. veficae urinae, 1763 Paflio caeliacea, 707 uteri. 1766 hyfterica. 745 feroti, 1768 pleuritica, 910 Paracufis, 732 Paffion, 120 Paracynanche, 889 caeliaque, 707 Paradontidas, 1032 hyfterique, 74* Paraglofle, 1403 iliaque. 144a Paralylie, 728 Pcfloris dolor. 910 Paranoia, Paralyfis fymptomatica, 735 Pclitory root, 114 177 Pcmphingodes purites, 630 Paraphimolis, 1083 Pemphigus, ib. diagnoftic, 1084 Pemphicus, ib. fpecial cure, 1085 Pcmphingodes, 1535 Paraphonia, 729 Penetrating wound, 1471 Paraphrenefis, 926 cure, 1473 Paraphrenitis, ib. Perineal rupture, 138a Paraphrenfy, ib. Perforation, 1706 diagnoftic, 927 of the (kull, 1737 cure, 928 Pericardial inflammation. 920 ; >h. Paraphrofyne, 735- 9^6 Pericardii inflammatio, Paraplegia, 204 Pericarditis, ib. fanguinca, ib. diagnoflic. 921 Paraplexia, ib. fpecial cure. 92a Paiaplexie, ib. Peripleumonia, Peripneumo-pleuritis, 898 Parafynanche, 889 910 Paraplegy, ib. Peripneumonia, 895 diagnofis, 206 fuppurata, XI46 Paregorica, 119 notha, 898 cure, 207 Peripncumonie, ib. Parefis, 708. 728 Peiirrhoea, 708 Paronychia, 1045 Peritonitis, 987 128N D E X 5 98 ib. Peritoneal haematocele, 119* inflammation, 987 diagnoflic, 988 Perla, Pernio, Pertuffis, Perverfio articuli, Pefte d’oderat, Peftilence, peflilentia, Peftilential fever, Pettis, Petite appartil, verole, volante, Petechial fever, pharmaceutic medicine, Pharmaceutics, Philofophy, Phiiofophizing, rules of, Pliifiology, Phimofis, diagnoflic, fpecial cure, circumligata, fynpjAXttov, Phlebotomia, Phlebotomie, Phlebotomy, principles, fele&ion of a vein, method, inftruments, fize of wound, direftion of wound, mode, deligation, accidents, Phlcgmafia, exanthematica, Phlcgmafi membranac coftalis. Phlegmatia, Phlegmatitia, Phlegmon, Phlegmone, renum, articuli, mcdullaris, Phlogiftic caufe, Phlogofis, Phlyittaena, Phrenefic, Phrenifmus, Phrenitiafis, vPhrenitis, fuppurata, 13 33 1019 7JO 154 73« 544 ib. 483, 544 1811 5/8 1609 483 95 ib. xo II to 15 27 1079 1080 1081 1083 92 95 1710 ib. ib. 1711 171a 1713 1714 1715 17x6 1717 1718 1719 776 54* 910 769 769 776 ib. 956 993 997 837 776 1198 881 ib ib. ib. H37 680. Phrenzy, diagnoflic, fpecial cure, Phthae, Phthific, Phthifie, Phthifis, pulmona'lis, notias, Phyma, Phyfician, Pbyfcometra, Phyfconia, Phyfcony, diagnoflic, cure, Piercing, Piles, fpecial cure, Pituita, alba, Pituitaria, Piqueur, PifTement de fang, de pus, Plaga, Plague, Appellations, definition, diagnoflic, occafional caufe, proximate caufe, prognoftic, fpecial cure, Plaftic procefs, power, Plafticity, Plethora, varieties, Plethoric ftate, Plethora idiopathic, ad molem, fymptomatic, general, local, fymptoms of, caufes, prophylaxis. Pleura furcus, Pleurifie, Pleurefis, Pleuritic haemalokele, dropfy, Pleuritica febris, Pleurify, diagnoflic, fpecial cure, Plcuritis, fpuria, 881 88a 885 759 IJ38 ib. ib. ib. 7 63 771 90 1*67 132» ib. J323 X324 1706.1761 106a 1064 1023 769 707 3471 24a 970 1441 544 ib. .545 547 550 552 73 84 139 140 139 140 ib. 141 14a 143 144 >45 146 910 ib. ib. 1189 1216 910 910 91a 9*3 9101 N D E X. Pieurodyne vomica, 904. 910 Pleuro peripneumonia, 895 Plica, 7°8 Polonica, ib. Belgarum, ib. Pneumatocele, 1257 uterina, 1267 fcrotalis, 1270 articuli, 127a abdominis, 1264 Pneumatokele, 1257 diagnodic, 1258 cure, 1259 Pneumatofis, 1257 Pneumopleuritis, S95 Pnigalion, 754 Pnigamon, ib. Podagra, 721. 724 Podagrica, 724 Poifoncd wound-, 1478 Polype, 1328 diagnodic, 1529 cure, 1330 amputation, 1702 mode, 1703 indruments, 1704 Polypus, » 1328 Porcelaine, 630 Potentia nocentes, 56 Power, 55 deranging, 56 morbific, ib. Pracfagium, 71 Predifponcnt caufes, 63 Predifpofition, morbid, 59 Prevention, 92 Procidentia, 1392 Proftalgia, 1062 Proflica, ib. Pro&itis, ib. Prognofis medical, 71 importance of, 72 Profluvium, 6y8 urinae, 708 Profufio, 137 II poriyv/Aiiri, 58 60 IlgoipxenCf ib. Prolapfus, 1392 ani, 1420 Prophylaftic medicine, 92 Prophylaxia, ib. Proptoma, 1392 Proxima caufa, 64 Proud flefh, 1461 modifications, 1463 , 889 59* Pfaulotis, 729 Pfellimus, ib. Pfeudo pleuritis, 910 Plora, I53t Pfydracia, 1533 Ptarmica, 1 *3 Pterig, *33* Pterigium, ib. Ptofis, *39? Ptuelifmos, 703 Ptyalifmus, ib. Puerperal fever, 461 Pudenda a gonorrhoea, 1067 Pudendagra tedium, Io75 ex phimofi. J°79 paraphimofi, 1083 Pulmonary conlumption, 759 Pulmonia, ib. Pultaceous encyded fwelling. 1249 Punftura, 1471 Puncture, 1706. 1471 of the bladder. 1763 Purgantia, 10S Purgers, ib. Purging, 707 Puorrhoca, 635 Puoturia, 970 Purpura alba. 50S maligna, ib. miliaris, ib; puerperarum, ib. urticata, ib. Purulent urine, 970 encyded fwelling, U33 tumour. ib. matter, procefs, 784 785 Purulence, ib. Purulentia, ib. Pus, 784- Pudulae oris, 1535 Putrid fever, 461. 283 bilious fever, 683 Pyrexia, 266 Pyrofis, 706 Pyuria, 970 Quality, 2 whence derived. 9- 30 generic, 2- fpecific, 8 Quartan ague, 675 remittent fever, 682 Quartana, 675 Quarto continue. 682 Quick lime, 127 Prunella,1 INf D E X 6 oo Quinfy, 889 fpecial cure, 801 Quotidian ague, 673 Quotidiana continua, ib. 680 R. Rabies, 747 canina, ib. Rachialgia, 756 Ramex, 1346 Raphania, 744 Raving, 279 Re<£lificatio, 1822 Reftification, ib. of bone-incurvation , 1825 of tongue-tying, 1826 of hare-lip, 1827 of wry-neck. 1828 of webbing, 1829 of ihut flraight-gut. , 1832 of the prepuce. 1833 mode, &c. 1834 Recurrent fever, 677 _Redu£lion, 1822 Reduvia, 1045 Relaxantia, 122 Remede, 9i ib. Remedy, Remiffion, 643 Remittent fever, 677 Renal inflammation, 9.5 6 rupture, *372 Renum inflammatio. ib. Replacing, J822 Repofition, ib. Res ciliaria, 121 Refolutio, 782 Refolution, ib. Retention d’urine, 7*4 Retroverfio uteri. 1412 Retroverfion of the womb, ib. diagnoflic (pregnant), *473 cure, «4I4 Rhagas, 1337 Rheuma, 7°5 ophthalmon, 701 gaftros. 707 Rheumatic fever, 461. 530 pains. 7*5- Rheumatifmus, 530 • 7? 7 acutus, ib. uteri, chronicus. 7x1 92S odontalgicus, 1032 Rheumatifme chaud, 53° Rheume dc cerveau. 704 du poitrine, 705 Rickets, , 764 Ring-worm, *53* Roborantia, 121 Rofa, 333 Rofe, 1090 diagnoflic, 1091 fpecial cure, 1095 fuppofed remedies. 1097 Rofe-fever, appellations, 333 diagnoflic, predifponent caufe, 33 7 occafional caufe. 338 prognoftic, 363 fpecial cure. 563 1008 Rofe-drop, Rofeola, 614 Rotten-bone, 1 Rottenrtefs, 788 Royal flitch. 1651 Rubefacientia, 111 Rubeola, 614 Running of the nofe. 704 reins, 709 Ruptura, i44r Rupture, *346. 1466 diagnoflic, 1347 fac, *33 r reducible, *333 cure of. 1362 irreducible. *334 caufes. 1336 cure. *337 8. Sacer et major morbus. 744 Sac us hernialis, *33* herniofus, ib. Sacotrine aloe, 108 Salivantia, 1x4 Salivatio, 703 Salivation, ib. Salt-petrc, 116 Sanguine encyfled fwelling, J338 Sanguis miflio, >'3 Sanguifluxus, *37 Sanitas, 27 Sante, ib. Sarcites flatuofis, ,237 Sarcocele, *305. • 1319 diagnoflic, 1320 cure, 1321 Sarcokele, *3*9 Sarcoma, 1305. *3*9 epulis, *33* Satiriafmus, 767 Saw, 128 Scab, *332£ & 60* I N D VoL. II. 4 G §cabies, 1531 Seiflio Celfica, 1811 Scalding, *009 fynchondrofeos oflium pu Scarificatio, 1726 bis, caefarea, 1782 Scarification, ib. 1784 Scarifying, ib. hypogaftrica, 1799 Scarlatina, 565 Seflibn of the pubcS, 1782 urticata, 625 Sedantia, 119 ib. febris. Sedatives, afaginofa. 576 Seniinium morbis, 59 Scarlet fever, 565 Senna leaves. 108 diagnofis. 566 Scnfelefsncfs, 733 predifponent caufe, J6 9 Septica, 127 occafiohal caufe. 57° Setacea, 115 proximate caufe. 5 7i Seton operation, 1845 prognollic, 57* Sewing, 1639 fpecial cure, 573 Shoulder amputation. 1665 diflin£lions, 575 fpeciality, 1666 Scelotyrbe, 697 Sialagoga, 114 Sciatica, 7*7 Sialagogucs, ib. Scirrhofis, 131* ib. Sibbins, 766 Scirrhofitos, Sicknels at flomach. 706 Scirrhus, ib. Sideratio, 88r diagnoflic, 1313 Sinapifras, nr cure. *3r7 Singultus, 753 teflis. 1319 Sinuous ulcer. 1516 Scirrhous teflicle, ib. Sinus, ib. Sclopetoplagia, 1474 Siriafis, 88r Scorbut, 697 Slough, 862 Scorbutus, ib. Sloughing, 863 Scordinema, $55 Sldw belly. 720 Scordinifmos, ib. Small-pox fever, 578 Scotomia, 7*7 diagnofis, 579 Scrophula, 757 predifponent caufe, 586 articularis, 760. 1249 proximate caufe. 59* Scrotal cmpyem, 1152 occafional caufe, 587 diagnoflic. 1153 prognoflic, 593 cure, 1154 fpecial cure, 595 haematokele, 1195 diftinft, 604 diagnoflic, 1196 confluent, 607 cure. 1197 inoculation of, 606 hydrokele, 123* Sneezing, 75* diagnoflic. 1*33 Soda, 706 caufcs, 1*35 Softeners, tzi fpecial cure, 1236 Solutio, 1439 palliative cure, . 1237 continui. ib. radical cure, 1238 Somnolentia, 177 modes. 1239 Sonticus morbus. 744 pnebmatokele. 1270 mcfenterica. 758 diagnoflic and cute , 1271 Sore, 1504 Scurvy, 697 Sortie de la langue, 1405 Scrotum punfture, 1768 Sound, 120 mode and inflfument, 1769 Sounding, 1847 Sea-fcurvy, 697 mode and ioftrument, 1848 Searching, 1847 Sparganofis, 71 z Secondary fever, 602 Spanilli flics, too Secondary morbid fyftem, 68 Spafm, 310 Scftio uveae. 1754 Spafmodic aflhma, 749 fifiulae ani, 1770 Spafmos, 737morbi, ib. index 6oz Spafmus, 737 flatulentis, ib. tonicus. 738 otalgicus, 1038 Speck, 1353 Sphacelation 788 Sphacclifmus-, ib. cerebri. 881 Sphacelus, 7*88 Sphacelation, ib. Sphacerus, 881 Sphalerus, ib. Spices, 120 Spina ventofa. 997 Spine diftortion. *554 Spitting, 703 Spleen and vapours, 745 Spleen inflammation, 954 diagnoftic, 955 rupture, 137' Splen magnus. 697 •Splenitis, 954 Splenocele, I37i Sponge, 151a Spontaneous rupture of import hume, 840 Spotted fever, 483 Sputum fanguinis. 317 Squinantia, 889 Squint-eye, 744 Squirre, 131a Staggering, 734 Staphyle feu uva, 1401 St Anthony’s fire,. 555 St Vitus’s dance, 746 Steatom, 1112 cure, 1114 Steatoma, 1112 Stcrcoraccous cncyrted fwelling, 1284 diagnoftic, i a 83 cure, 1286 Sterilitas, *7*5 Sterility, ib. Stern utatio. 75a Sternutatories, > **3 Stillicidium urinae. 7*4 Stimulantia, 120 Stimulants, ib. Stomacace, 2iO. 697 univerfalis. 265 Stomach inflammation. 929 diagnoftic, 93® fpecialcure, 931 rupture, 1368 Stomachi dolor. 706 The Stone, 958 formation of, 961 fpecial cure, 968 Stoppage, 713 Stitch, I639 Stra-bifme, 744 Strabifmus, ib. Strangulated rupture, *385 Strangulation of rupture,- ib. fymptoms, 1387 cure, 1389 Strangulation, 197 Stranguria, 708.714 Stupefacientia, 119 Strudlure defined, I? Struma, 757 Sty, U32 Styptica, 121 Stymatolis, 242 Subluxatio, 1426 Subftanee defined. 1 Subftillnm urinae, 7*4 Su ecu bus, 754 Sudor, 700 morbofa, ib. Sudatio morbofus. ib. Sudorifera, loo Sudorifica, ib. Sueur, 700 Suffocatio rtridula. 749 SufTufio, 1621 Sugillatio, 1289 Sulphur, flowers of. 108 Supprefled courfes, 716 cleanflng. 1717 Suppreflio menfium. 716 ladtis, 718 Suppreflio, 713 Suppreflion, ib. Suppuratio, 78f Suppuration, 601. 785. 832. Suppurative inflammation, 785 Suppuratives, 837 Suppurantia, ib. Suppurants, 120. 837 Surditas, 732 Surgeon, 97 Surgery, 96. 97 importance of. 98 Sufpirium, 705 Sutura, 1639 Suture, ib. true. 1640 falfe, ib. Syderatio, 555 Symptom defined, 65 morbid, 66 Symptoma pathognomonicum, 67 charafterifticum, ib. eflentiali. ib.60s D E X. I N 4 G 2 \ Symptomata fymptomatis, 68 Tetanus, ib. Symptomatic fever, 691 anticus, emprolihonicus. 741 Symptomatology, 69 ib. Symptomatology, ib. dorfalis, 74* Syneche, 683 opifthotonicus. ib. Synochus, * -47°- °8o Tctartaios, 674 imputns, 46 z Tetarophya, 4)81. fimplex, ib. Tetter, *531 putrida, 476 Texture, *5 dylcnterodes. 491 Therapheia, 93 Syphilis, 766 Therapeutic medicine, rb. Syltem, vafcular, 20 Therapeutics, ib. arterial, ib. Thigh-amputation, 3669 office of, 22 \ fpeciality, 1670 venous, 20 Thlafias, 3300 office of. 22 Thlsfma, ib. Syringa, JS50 Throe, Throat-inflainmatipn, 1383 Syringing, 1849 889 Sweating, 700 Thruffi, 1335 Swelled teflicle. 10 75 Thrombus, 1181 Swelling, 771 Thyme, *34* humoral, 744 cure, *343 folid, 1300 Thymus, *34* Swollen vein. 11 Thyroid rupture. 1380 Swoon, 770 Tinea, *333 Swooning, ib. Tiraillcment, 755 Tobacco, 313- 1x4 T ' Tongue-tying, cure, *33* 133* Tabes, ‘ 761 Tonic convulfion. 738 dorfalis, 763 Tonica, J2I mefenterica, 73* Tonfil-csttirpation, 3679 pulmonalis, 739 mode. 3680 Talpa, 1119 Tooth -aeh. 103* Tapping, i;o6, , 1761 drawing, 3696 , Tarantirine, 7.46 mode. 3697 Tarantiimus, ib. inttruments, 4698 Tartftr, 959 extraction, I696 foluble. 108 cleaning. l8l8 cremor. ib. tranfplantation, &84A Taye, 1333 mode. *841 Taupe, H19 luxation, 1840 Tearing, 701. Tear-obftruttion, 1364 Torpor, 728 1364 Torticollis, 745 • *334 cure. 1363 Toux, 705 Teigne, J333 Trachclophyma, 1124 Telum, 910 Tracheotomia, *7 36 Tercbratio, 1/37 Travail, *382 Tertian ague, 674 Tremblement, 728 ib. remittent fever, 681 Trembling, Tertiana, 674 Tremor, ib. pemiciofa, 681 Trepanatio, *737 Te(Ucle-inflammation, 1075 Trepaning, ib. diagnolis. 1076 principles, *738 fpeejal cure, JO77 the fealp, *739 Tefliculi inflammrjtio, 107 5 the (kull, *740 Telludo, 1119 feleftion of place, 1741 Tetanos, 740 inftruments, *74*X. 604 r n E D Trepaningjmembranes of the brain, *743 the upper jaw. 1745 place. 1746 mode and inftru- ments, 1747 the breaft-bone, 1748 mode, &e. 1749 a hollow bone, 175P mode, &c. 17 31 Triataeophyes pyretos. 681 Trichoma, 768 Tritaios, 674 fynochus, 681 Trifmos, 743 Trifmus, ib. Tritaeophya, 681 Americana, 683 Tuber, 774 Tumeur, ib. lymphatique. 1103 cyftique, 1129 humeural. 774 folide, I300 Tumor, 772 humeralis. 774 phlogifticus. 776 protuberans. 771 articulorum fcrophulofus, 760 lymphaticus, X105 cyfticus, 1129 tunicatus, ib. capfulatus, ib. ventofus. 1157 biliofus, 1473 folidus, X300 Turn. Vide Crifis. Tuflis humida. 7°5 clangofa, 730 convulfiva, ib. ferina, ib. Twilling of the gut, 1422 Tying, 1639 Tympania, 1264 Tympanias, ib. Tympanita, ib. Tympanites, ib. Tympanite de la matrice, 1267 Tympany, 1264 diagnoftic, 1263 cure, J266 Typhomania, 279 Typhod.es, 469 T\ phos, 1264 Typhus, 469 flavus. 683 iOerodes, ib. Typus fcorilis, 6yt u fy\eice.t 27 Ulcer, 1504 walhing, i860 fituation and diftin&ion, 1306 diagnoftic, 1505 caufes, I5°9 prognoftic. 1510 purulent, cure of, 1 famous, cure of, 1312 herpetip, IJ31 lachrymal, 1534 aphthous. 1535 nofe, 1536 lung. 1538 carious, 1519 diagnoftic, I5?° cure, 1322 cancerous, 1525 diagnoftic, 1326 cure, 1328 artificial, i3!3 Ujceratio, 13 °4 Ulceration, ib. Ulcere, ib. a la matrice, 711 Ulcerous fore throat. 577 Ulcus, 1504 uteri, 711 cerebri depafeens. 881 phagedaenicum, 1545 depafeens, ib. Umbilical rupture, 1376 Unguis, 1334 Ungula, * ’’*• Un medicin, 90 Urethre inflammation, 1067 Urethrotomia, 1814 Urethrotomie, ib. Urethrotomy, ib. mode, 1813 Urinae retentio, 714 fuppreflio. ib. Urinary eneyfted fwclling. 1278 Urine bloody, 242 fwelling. 1^78 obftrudVion, 1578 cure, 1579 drawing off, 1819 Urokele, 1170- I57° diagnoftic, 1279 caufes, 1280 cure, 1283 Utricaria, 623 Uvula nimium produfla, 1401605 INDEX U»ul’ amputation. 1677 mode, 1678 V. Vagi, 676 Vapeurs, 745 Varice, ”75 vrai, 1180 Varicella, 609 Varicous anturyfm. 117* diagnoftic, ”73 cure, ”74 Varioccle, ”77 Variola, 5.78 Variolae, ib. benigna, 604 difcretae, ib. interftinilae, ib. regulares, ib. confluentes. ib. lymphaticae, ib. 609 malignae, 604 Variolous fever, 578 Varix, ”75 diagnoftic, 1x76 fcrotalis, ”75 true, 1180 vera. ib. fpuria, 1181.1289 fpurious, ib. aneuryfmalis. ”83 Vecordia, 735 Vegetable, defined, *4 life of. *5 death of, 26 fubftanccs. 103 Vein, * 20 funftion of, 22 Venaefeftio, 17X0 Venaefeftion, ib. Venereal difeafe. 766 Ventoufe huinide, 1727 feche, 1728 Ventral rupture, 1382 Venticulofa paffio, 707 Ventris profluvium. ib. Vcrriip, 1340 Verruca, ib. gregalis. ib. Vermifuges, 125 Verole, 766 Vcfania, 735 Vefecaptia, ixr Vefecatoria, ib. Vcficae inflammatio, 974 Vcficulae gingivarum, 1535 Vcficular fever, defined, 630 Veficular fever, diagnofis, 631 predifponent caufe, 632 occafional caufe. 633 proximate caufe. 634 prognoftic, 635 fpecial cure. 636 Veflel, defined, 19 Vibex, 1289 Vigilium morbofum. 735 Vipftura, 1636 Violent fever, 483 Virginum obftructio, 762 Virulent running, 3067 Vifcidity of the fluids. 3x0 Vis vitae, 25 plaftica. 73 generatrix, 80 confervatrix. Si medicatrix, 82 Vitality, 25 Vitia, 49 Vitium dialyticum. 1439 Vitriol, fait of, X07 Volvulus, 1422 Vomica, 904 rupta, 1146 Vomique, 904 Vomiftement dc fan g, 231 Vomitoria, 106 Vomito peto, 683 Vomiting, 282. 7®6 blood, 231 Vomits, 106 fpecification of, 107 Vomitus, 706 cruentes. 231 fanguinis, ib. Vulnus, 1441 fclopetorum, 2474 virulentum, J47# offis, 1482. 1484 W. Want of fmell. 730 tafte. 729 touch, 733 Wart, 1340 cure, I34t amputation. X705 Water, 103 ;. i22 fweliing, *°3 pox. 609 bralh. 706 in the head, 3 204 Watery eneyfted fwcllihg, II98 diagnoftic, ”99 cauics, I2CO» 6c6 I N D E X. Watery encyfled fwelling, cure, 1202 Wound, I44t v * variety. 1203 diagnoft/c, 1442 Webbing, IJ47 cicatrization, ftages of healing, 1443 cure, 1548 J444 Wen, 1105 prognoftic, 1445 diftindtion, 1109 cure, during haemorrhage, 1446 diagnoftic, iro6 1447 Wine, 103 during inflammation antimoniai, 107 and heaiing, X449 Windy rupture. 1270 abftradtion of impacted Whites, 711 matter, 1450 White flux, ib. repofltion and retention, 1451 fwelling, 760. 1249 diagnoftic, 1230 caufes, 1253 termination*, 1254 4 ; cure, 1255 W4iitlbV,'1 ’ X045 fpecial cure, 1047 fuppofed remedies, 1048 Womb-obftruftion, 1580 pundture, 1766 mode and inftrument, ib. inflammation, 981 diagnoftic, 982 fpecial cure, 984 hydrokele, 1226 diagnoftic, 1227 cure, 1228 rupture, 1373 pneumatokele, 1267 diagnoftic, 1268 cure, 1269 defcent, 1405 varieties, ■> 1406 diagnoftic (not pregnant) 1407 cure, J408 regulation of inflamma- tios, 1453 amputative. 1464 cure, with lofs of fubftance, 1465 1464 lacerated, 1466 diagnoftic, 1467 cure. 1468 contufed. 1469 cure, 147® gun-fhot, 1474 cure. I47J excoriated, 1477 -envenomed, 1478 cure. 1479 Wound-wafhing, 1839 Wounding, 1706 Wry neck, 74 J Y Yard-am putation, 1687 Yawning and ftretching, 755 Yaws, 766 Yellow fever, # 683 jaundice. 7:9RECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: Microfilm No: Date Particulars Z7- Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification / Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment ^ Adhesives <M£I? Remarks