COOKERY RECIPES. 319 Mock Rabbit (cheap and very nourishing).—Prepare haricot beans as above, but instead of frying, put them, when sufficiently boiled and drained from the water, on a deep, hot dish and cover—for the mock rabbit—with onion sauce, or to represent chicken, with parsley sauce. To Cook New Zealand or other Frozen Meat.—This meat is often despised because it is badly cooked. It should always be thoroughly thawed before cooking—this is the secret of success. Let it hang in a warm kitchen all night. Canterbury (New Zealand) lamb is regarded as the best of all the foreign brands imported. To Clarify Fat or Dripping.—Much dripping will accumulate during roasting, and should be clarified. Break iUp-5 £d,npi)Jng and scraP8 of fat a basin, and pour on a kettleful ot bating water. Next day the fat will have formed a cake on the top j cut it off, if possible without breaking, scrape all the impurities off the underside, wash out the basin break up the cake, and repeat process, and then again a third time. Beef dripping is much nicer for cookery purposes than mutton dripping ; if possible keep them separate. ILT.—Baking. General Principles.—The rules and times for roasting apply equally to baking. Bemember that a very hot oven is needed to row bread and pastry, then a cooler oven to permit mside to be gradually cooked. Game, hares and other delicate meats should be covered with greased paper, or larded (i.e have thick slices of fat bacon tied or skewered on) before being put m the oven; this also saves the need of such frequent basting. Meat pies when brown enough should be placed on the top of the oven, to allow the meat to cook slowly and prevent the crust from being over-done: the crust ff ne7f ^h paper during^this process. Make a little hole in the top of meat pies to allow the steam to escape Time required for Baking—For meat, fowl, game, same as roasting. Game pie three to four hours if very kr?e ^TtCt^ .^cording to size, half tl sale Sand d£&. if LFg8 °ne and a half t0 two and IZI I haH t0 three-quarters of an hour. Turkeys ^jjeese^an^hou^or more, according to size. Hare one to wherever SUNLIGHT SOAP is found.