BURGER'S SECRET. 43^ face, with its high, white forehead, its aggressive nose, and' its somewhat loose and sensual mouth, was a fair index of the compromise between strength and weakness in his nature. Of a very different type was his companion, Julius Burger. He came of a curious blend, a German father and an Italian mother, with the robust qualities of the North mingling strangely with the softer graces of the South. Blue Teutonic eyes lightened his sun-browned face, and above them rose a square, massive forehead, with a fringe of close yellow curls lying round it. His strong, firm jaw was clean-shaven, and his companion had frequently remarked how much it suggested those old Roman busts which peered out from the shadows in the comers of his chamber. Under its bluff German strength there lay always a suggestion of Italian subtlety, but the smile was so honest, and the eyes so frank, that one understood that this was only an indication of his ancestry, with no actual bearing upon his character. In age and in reputation he was on the same level as his English companion, but his life and his work had both been far more arduous. Twelve years before he had come as a poor student to Rome, and had lived ever since upon some small endowment for research which had been awarded to him by the Uni- versity of Bonn. Painfully, slowly and doggedly, with extraordinary tenacity and single - mindedness, he had climbed from rung to rung, of the ladder of fame until now he was a member of the Berlin Academy, and there was every reason to believe thai he would shortly be pro- moted to the Chair of the greatest of German Universities. But the singleness of purpose which had brought him to the same high level as the rich and brilliant Englishman, had caused him in everything outside their work to stand mnmtely below him. He had never found a pause in his studies m which to cultivate the social graces. It was on ]y when he spoke of his own subject that his face was Mied with life and soul. At other times he was silent and embarrassed, too conscious of his own limitations in larger subjeota^andJmp^W of that small talk which is cleans clothes and aImosTanythhTg~e^