PALMISTRY. 22$ the home is always bright. x \j Saturn. The joint at the base of the finger is called Mount of Saturn, "fatality." . , „ g Mercury. The joint at the base of the finger is called Mount of Mercury, wit, science. 6 Mars. The joint at the base of the finger is called Mount of Mars, courage. <X Luna, The Moon. The joint at the base of the finger is called Mount of the Moon, folly, or it may be imagination. The effect of these "Mounts," however, may be much modified by the lines of the hand. There are four principal lines and several others of minor importance. 6. Line of Saturn, or of Fate, is not present in all hands, but, if long and clear-cut, indicates happiness and prosperity; if broken or winding, indicates misfortunes or difficulties. _ 7. Line of Heart, if long and clear-cut, denotes affection and devotion. 8. Line of Health, or of Liver, if well marked, indicates health and long life. 9. Line of Mars, if strongly marked, denotes a martial and warlike disposition. 10. The Line of Life, surrounding the thumb, and, L£ long, supposed to indicate long life. The Bracelets of Life, or the Eascette. Each bracelet is supposed to represent thirty years of life, and when well marked, emphasise the effect of the "Line of Life," denoting length of life and happiness, especially if they should rise to the hand. The Line of Apollo, or Brilliancy (below the Mount of Apollo) if well marked, indicates success in art. This line is not present in all hands. The Girdle of Venus indicates a bad character on the whole, and a character liable to be influenced by love; it is not seen on all hands. Via Lasciva, also called "The Milky "Way," is not always seen, and denotes faithlessness and cunning. It is near the line of health, for which it is sometimes mistaken. The division of the fingers by joints are called phalanges. The first indicate intuition, or intuitive faculties; the second reasoning powers; and the third material instincts. The middle of the hand is the quadrangle, and if broad and open, indicates generosity ; if narrow, avarice.