"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. between constant fussing over it on the one hand, and utter neglect on the other, will keep it fresh and bright. It should "be polished now and again, and an excellent furniture polish may be made as follows :—Mix thoroughly 3 oz. of beeswax, 1 oz. of white wax, 1 oz. of Sunlight Soap, 1 pint of tur- pentine, and 1 pint of soft water; keep the mixture two days before using, apply it lightly to the furniture and polish off with a silk handkerchief. Walls, Ceiling and Floors.—Bear in mind, when furnishing and decorating a home, that great expense is not necessary if you will but use a little ingenuity and intelligence. It is not merely the lavish outlay of money that will make a harmo- nious, elegant, and tasty home. For the walls, instead of papers which may be badly designed and very gaudy in colours, you may, if you like, produce cheaply harmonious tones in any tint by means of distemper, which you can put on yourself. You may use, for instance, a good shade of terra-cotta for the walls, and modify the tint for the ceiling according to taste. The room will look like the interior of a rosy-coloured shell, particularly if the idea of harmony be followed out in the di aperies instead of contrast. For this purpose a bold-patterned warmly-tinted " art" muslin may be used. " Art " muslins of good designs and of every colour can now be bought at a draper's, at about threepence per yard and upwards. The Distemper for the Walls and Ceiling is really a coloured whitewash, but some size must be put into the mixture, or the colouring will rub off the wall when dry. A good recipe for whitewash for an ordinary room is as follows :—Place two cakes of common whitening in a pail and mix into a thin paste with warm water; lib. of double size should be melted in an old saucepan and added to the white- ning in the pail; a smaU cake of laundry blue, previously dissolved, should be added, and finally a tablespoonful of ground alum. The mixture will effervesce when this is added, and when the bubbling is over the stuff may bo strained through a fine sieve or coarse canvas; when cold it is ready tor use. Wash off tho old whitewash and dirt before applying. Any tint mav be given the whitewash by colours procured at the oil-and-colourman's. The simplest method however, will be to order a pail of coloured whitewash or distemper ot the SUNLIGHT SOAP is used everywhere