"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 214 Scientific A Wonderful Tunnel. On May 22nd, 1897, was opened, by the Prince of "Wales, the spacious tunnel under the Thames at Blackwall, which is the greatest undertaking of the kind executed by compressed air. The tunnel was cut only five or six feet below the bed of the river, the soil being of a loose, wet and gravelly nature. And the reason why the great river did not burst through and swamp out the busy workers was that a constant supply of compressed air was pumped into the large chamber in which the work of excavation proceeded. The ordinary air presses upon our bodies at the rate of about 14 lbs. to the square inch, but it is so equable and so constant that we are quite used to it and we do not feel it; but the pressure of air in the chamber was raised to about 40 lbs. to the square inch, and this pressure, with the great " shield " that was erected, enabled the men to delve out the soil in safety. The cost of this splendid tunnel, which is 6,200 feet long, including the open approaches, was, in round figures, about li millions of pounds sterling. The tunnel is lit by electricity, and forms not only a means of crossing under the Thames—without payment—to myriads of busy workers on both sides—for there is a large industrial neighbourhood on both shores—but also affords a means of conveying vegetables and fruit across the river from the rural districts of Kent and Essex. Electric Traction. Electrical Traction, i.e., hauling cars along by electricity, has made marked progress, and a new electric underground railway, from Waterloo Station, to the City, has been opened in London, (1897), while- several others are now m process of construction in different parts of the great metropolis. The City and South London was the first of these lines, and was opened a few years ago; the electricity being conveyed from the dynamo at a fixed station by a third rail running between the rails for the wheels. The electricity is taken from the third (conducting) rail by means of a "shoe, oi? " Just a line to tell you SUNUGIlFsOAP