327 COOKERY RECIPES. (strained), and a couple of well-beaten eggs; place the mixture in a buttered basin or mould, tie in a well-floured cloth, place in boiling water, and boil quickly and con- tinuously. An ounce of ginger, or J lb. of chopped figs may be used instead of the chopped-up lemon rind, and the lemon juice may or may not be omitted, according to taste. "High Church Pudding."—Mix thoroughly & lb. of finely-chopped suet, £ lb. of flour, a teacupful of black- currant jam, teacupful of milk, and a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Stir these together a few minutes, add, if liked, a tablespoonful of sugar. Butter the inside of a plain basin or tin shape, put in the pudding and boil 2£ hours. A Good Rely=Poly Pudding.—Knead 1 lb. of flour into a paste with a little milk—tepid in winter. Roll out the paste on the board, placing on it from time to time little bita of butter, and keep on rolling and placing in little bits of butter until you have used £ lb. Then roll out the paste to size of your pudding—as long as your saucepan will take— and spread over it the jam you intend to use ; then roll the jam and paste over itself and work the ends together, so as to close up the jam well inside. Flour over, tie in a cloth, tying the middle and ends of the pudding with string, and place in a saucepan of lolling water, and keep boiling for three hours. Have a kettle of hot or boiling %ater near to fill up the pudding saucepan as the water therein evaporates* V.—Stewing. General Principles.—This is the most economical of all methods of cooking. The meat should be fried first for a minute on each cut side to keep in the juice, and then put into the stewing pot (either a regular stewing pan, or an ordinary saucepan with a close-fitting lid) with a very little water or stock, and with or without vegetables. Very little fire is- needed for stowing as the process should be a slow one; for this reason, that all tho goodness of the meat is preserved in the gravy. ev/ed Celery.—Cut tho celery into 3-inch lengths; wash in cold water, place in boiling water or broth co that they may be covered and keep to that level by filling up with cleans clothes and almost anything els2.