» SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK, 244 SUNLIGHT SOAP usual dull and awkward type of terrace houses is not by any means a necessity, and in one or two instances the way has been shown by capitalists—on a somewhat limited scale of course—how to produce good architecture and pleasant, com- fovtable homes for the working classes by the employment of clever architects. This has been notably the case at Port Sunlight, where Messrs. Lever Brothers, Limited, have built a whole village for their workpeople on lines as far removed from the ordinary type of artisans' dwellings—even the so-called "improved" dwellings—as Windsor Castle is from 1,002, Deadly-dull Terrace. By enlisting the services of really clever architects they have secured a result at once charm- ingly picturesque from an architectural point of view, and thoroughly satisfactory from the practical standpoints of health and comfort. The illustrations and description which appear elsewhere in the present volume will give our readers a good idea of this unique attempt to build a model village on really architectural lines. Speaking generally, it would appear as if English people had become so affected by the degenerating influences which have been at work ever since our long history of national architecture came to an end with the Jacobean and Queen Anne work, that they are now content with the most nonde- script rubbish. Time was when English architecture had some architectural quality about it. Now it is either more or less a successful revival of some dead style or a quite name- less concoction of characterless features. People have too often arrived at the conclusion that an architect is an expensive luxury that can very weU be dispensed with, and the result is, that speculative builders' architecture forms the bulk of our modern domestic work, ana is ail done with the most absolute disregard for art. let notwithstanding aU these discouraging influences we could point to many cases in which most dehghtf ul homes have been produced, and often enough for people whose means are very limited. This fact, perhaps more than any other, &™J* hope for the future of English architecture. For although we may lament the lack of a national style, we may at least rejoice that the love of art and of architecture is more. culti- vated in the homes and minds of the people to-day than it has ever been before. .