392 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. When SUNLIGHT SOAP is used 7. Always be sure to note if the medicine lias Lad the effect it is intended to have. It is very important to be able to tell the doctor whether the medicine has had the desired effect or not. 8. Never give children the medicine ordered for grown up people. Never give opium or laudanum to a baby. One drop of laudanum has been known to kill a laby. 9. Never give medicines or prescriptions that have done good in some cases, to other patients that appear to be suffering from the same symptoms. 10. Occasionally, medicines contain strong poisons; after a time people taking such become able to take a larger dose ■without harm, and the quantity taken may be increased by the doctor ; but when such medicine is left off it should not be resumed without medical leave. A Special Use of Lifebuoy Soap. In infectious cases every utensil used by the sick person should be frequently washed -with Lifebuoy Soap, also the hands of the nurse—this is her great source of safety. There shouldalways be a table outside thesick-room with warm water, clean towel, nail-brush, and a piece of Lifebuoy Soap ready for the doctor to wash his hands after his visit. The infected room is better without any carpets ; if it has any small strips they should be burned afterwards. There should be no up- holstered furniture. Curtains should be of dimity, which can be boiled. Table-covers, antimacassars, and all articles not actually needed should be banished. There must be no coming and going between the sick-room and the rest of the house. All crockery, tea cloths, glasses, &c., required should be brought up at the beginning of the illness, and should not go down again. All food and drink which has to be brought up daily, should be received in vessels put at the top of the stairs ready for them. A bath or pail should stand on the landing, with a lather of Lifebuoy Soap and water, (best made with hot water), all clothing of nurse or patient should be placed in this for some hours before it_ is removed to be washed and boiled. A large sheet soaked in the same and hung before the sick-room door, up to the ceiling, and down to the ground, is a means of intercepting and destrojing the disease germs from the sick-room.