THE NAVY. 173 Brm\> anb ¥lav\\ EVENTS OF 1896=7. The Navy. The building of new battleships, cruisers, torpedo-boat destroyers, &c, bas been energetically pushed forward, and the Estimates in the spring of 1897 provided for the com- mencement of four battleships, three third-class cruisers, two sloops, four twin-screw gunboats, and two torpedo-boat destroyers. A new yacht for Her Majesty was also com- menced at Pembroke. Of these vessels three battleships, three cruisers, and two sloops were, or are being, built in the national dockyards; the remaining battleship, four gunboats, and two torpedo-boat destroyers have been, or are being, built by contract. The propelling machinery and boilers for all the vessels, except for two third-class cruisers and one of the sloops, have been ordered from private firms. The three battleships built in the dockyards were laid down as soon as the slips occupied in March, 1897, by the Canopus, Goliath, and Ocean, which were launched towards the end of the year, became vacant. Consequently, with those under construction in 1896, there have been, or will be, during the years 1897 and 1898 under construction or completing:—Fourteen battleships, eight first-class cruisers, nine second-class cruisers, ten third-class cruisers, two sloops, four twin-screw gunboats, fifty-two torpedo-boat destroyers, eight light-draught steamers for special service, and one Eoyal yacht,—a total of 108. Their aggregate displacement tonnage is about 380,000, and aggregate" indicated horse-power 800,000. It is anticipated that 66 of those vessels will be completed for service, including fifty torpedo-boat destroyers, before 31st March, 1898. During 1896-7 extensive experiments have been made on armour plates, the conditions embodying a higher standard than in former contracts. The results have shown that British manufacturers' plates continue to hold the same good position in relation to their foreign competitors as in the past. In March, 1897, five large first-class battleships were being built, and work has steadily proceeded on these; they are quickly, thoroughly and well.