COOKERY RECIPES. 317- 3 sprigs of parsley. Place the meat with. 4 quarts of cold, water in a saucepan, and let it boil gradually; add the^ vegetables, and salt and pepper to taste, and boil gently until the food is tender. To bring up the quantity to the 4 quarts, add boiling water. Potato Soup (without meat, cheap and excellent).—Shred and simmer 6 potatoes and 2 onions in a little water. When soft, rub through a colander, or sieve, and mix with, milk to make of the consistence of cream; add pepper and salt to taste, a piece of butter, and boil up. May be served with chopped parsley or powdered mint sprinkled over soup in tureen, if flavours are liked, and with fried bread squares. Cabbage Soup.—Take 2 pints of stock {see above) a head of cabbage, 1 tablespoonful of butter or dripping, pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of flour. Boil the. cabbage, strain and chop it fine, put it into the pot with, other ingredients, except flour, boil up, have the flour mixed smoothly with a little water (corn-flour is much better than ordinary flour), stir it in and boil till the soup thickens. When flour is used as thickening for soups, sauces, &c, they should always be boiled for at least five minutes after it ia added or the flour will taste raw. A Good " Baked Soup."—A nourishing and substantial winter soup. The writer of Tasty Dishes says : Ingredients.— 2 lbs. lean beef, 1 head of celery, 2 turnips, 1 teacup of chopped cabbage, 1 onion, 1 carrot, chopped parsley, 4 or 6 tomatoes (or i tin preserved tomatoes), | cup of rice pre- viously boiled for 15 minutes, pepper and salt, 5 pints of cold- water. Method.—Cut the meat into dice, peel and chop up all the vegetables, add the rice and seasoning, mix all well together, and put into a strong earthenware jar, pour in the water, fit the cover on closely, and set in the oven in a pan of boi mg water for 6 hours. Do not uncover it while it is cooking, and serve without further preparation. Carrot, Haricot Bean, Lentil, Green Pea, Oxtail soup, dec—h or all these soups, good stock, as already directed, may be taken as the basis ; lentils and haricot beans must be soaked beforehand for a few hours (beans all night), m cold water, and then stew in the stock until done. Many cooks then rub the soft haricots or vegetables through a sieve.. 27 Gold Medals and other Awards.