GEOGRAPHY. * *57 examination of records in the Vatican, from which it would seem that those ancient .navigators, the Phoenicians, the Arabs, and also the Portuguese have all been there in centuries past. . In America, geological surveys in the United States and; Canada have been conducted, and Mr. Sullivan reports the existence of a large and fertile district beyond the Ottawa, and yielding indications of possessing mineral wealth as well as containing much timber. The Hon. J. Y. Brower has been exploring the utmost sources of the Missouri river. Mr. Brower finds its extreme source in a "hole in the summit of the Kocky Mountains " 8,000 feet high. The length of the river to "Three Forks" he estimates at 398 miles; from " Three Forks " to its meeting with the Mississippi 2,547 miles, and from this point to the mouth 1,276 miles, making its total length, i.e., of the Missouri and Mississippi, the enor- mous distance of 4,221 miles. In almost all parts of the world explorers and geographers- have been at work; among these we may notice that Mr. Graham Sandberg has examined " The great River of Thibet," and found its source in a marshy gravel between glacier- topped mountains, a spot called " the sands of the Mystic "Wheel" ; and Mr. Arthur P. Harper, Mr. Douglas Freshfield and Mr. E. A. Fitzgerald have been exploring the New Zea- land Alps. It appears not unlikely that tourists to the New Zealand glaciers may soon become as -common as visitors to the European Alps. Mr. Fitzgerald crossed through a pass in the south-west New Zealand Alps which he places at 7,180 ft. high, and also ascended Mount Sefton, about 10,360 ft. high, and called the New Zealand Matterhorn. Several of these New Zealand peaks are, it appears, over 10,000 ft. A horse track for summer use will probably be marked out from a place called the Hermitage to the New Zealand west coast, and possibly by this time is being made. These surveys have been under the auspices of the New Zealand Governments. Our fellow-subjects in Australia have also been busy, an expedition having set forth as far back as May, 1896, into the interior of their vast continental island. The explorers, who should bring back much valuable information, were not expected to return, however, until the end of 1897. SUNLIGHT SOAP will make it so.