LANGUAGES OF THE WORLD. having been published. The three previously issued were " Canterbury," " Salisbury," and " Chester." ! Glancing at science, we may notice that a new edition of Page's Introductory Text book on Geology—one of the most successful and popular works of the kind ever written—has been issued by Messrs. Blackwood; it has been revised and enlarged by Professor Lap worth, and Messrs. Blackwood have also issued an enlarged and re-written edition of Mackay's Elements of Physiography. Mr. F. M. Holmes has added the cheap and popular volumes entitled " England's Navy 'J and the " Marvels of Metal" to his list of popular narrative books on the triumph of Engineers, the Lords of the Admiralty having given him a special permit to inspect Chatham Dockyard for the purpose of the Navy book, and Mr. Walter Jerrold has also issued, through the same publishers, Messrs. Partridge & Co., an admirable volume on "The Triumphs of the Printing Press." Mr. John C. Sparkes, Principal of the Art Training School, South Kensington, and Mr. Gandy (of Doulton'e) have also written an excellent volume on "Potters, the Arts and Crafts." It is historical, biographical and descriptive, and conveys much reliable information on the art of pottery in an interesting manner. & [ Professor George Saintsbury has also written a volume on the twelfth and thirteenth centuries of European Literature his subject being « The Flourishing of Romance and the Eise of Allegory," This volume forms one of a new series of books on Periods of European Literature, issued by Messrs. Jjlackwood, the whole-series being edited by Mr. Saintsbury who is weH known as a high authority on literary subjects LANGUAGES OF THE WORLD. It is estimated that there are rather more than a thousand different languages in the world, but it is impossible to state accurately the exact number, because new tongues or new dialects seem constantly coming to light; many are S or less closely relate(L There «^ ^ ^ tnose wmch show practically no signs of inflection; and tnose, on the otherjiand, which do exhibit some., or many for the sake of convenience.