" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. lines. All blots and smudges should be avoided, the lines should run straight across the page, and nothing of an untidy or scrawling character be permitted, otherwise the letter will tend to look vulgar and negligent. Next, a hint as to Composition. Do not use too many con- junctions, such as "ands"or "buts"or " ifs." Some, of course, are at times essential, but too many, especially if the letter be not properly punctuated, tends to run on the letter into one long, involved sentence. Especially in a business letter, remember to have something definite to say, and then say it as clearly and as briefly as possible. Ease and natural- ness of expression are also to be cultivated, but absolute clearness should be especially considered. Great attention should also be paid to Grammar. There are several simple rules of grammar which should be remem- bered, such as " The verb 'to be' takes the same case after as before it," and "The relative pronoun should agree with its nominative in number and person." Furthermore, a sentence should, if possible, never end with a preposition. Slangy words and expressions should be avoided, as also should too pedantic and pretentious words. Of course, when writing to friends or to intimate acquaintances, less constraint may be exhibited, but as a rule it is always best to avoid slipshod writing and the idea that " anything will do." The form of the letter is also important. The third person is more formal than the first person, yet some letter-writers will commence in the third person and end with the first, as, for instance, " Mrs. So-ad-So desires Mr. Butcher to send a sirloin of beef by ten o'clock, and if it be not here to time / will return it." The third person should, of course, be used throughout, and a more suitable ending would be "And should it not arrive in time she [or Mrs. So-and-So] will be obliged to return, it, as it will be of no use to her." The Style op Address is also very important. Sometimes letters have to be addressed to persons of distinction, of rank and of title, or thuse to whom you are not known or but very slightly known. In addressing such, it is proper to commence simply " Sir "or " Madam." If to some extent you know them, the SUNLIGHT SOAP supplies