COMPETITIONS. 475 '"Sunlight" Year=Book Competition. Little Folks' Department. Messes. LEVEE BROTHERS, Limited, Poet Sunlight, neae Birkenhead, Weigh your envelope and attach the required stamps to the top right corner of envelope, and post. Do not enclose any stamps in your envelope. If there be any point in these Rules you do not understand ask your parents or guardian ; but neither they nor anyone else must assist you to write or aid in any way. The competition will close on February 15th, 1898. See that you post as early as possible. After the date of closing the competition wait patiently for at least four weeks before expecting to hear from us, and you will receive in time a printed list of the winners of prizes; with your prize, if you are successful. In awarding the prizes Lever Brothers, Limited, will take into account the neatness as well as the style of the letter, but whether your mother or guardian is a user of Sunlight or not, will not influence the awarding of the prizes. Lever Brothers, Limited, will endeavour to award the prizes fairly, to the best of their judgment ; and it is understood that all who com- pete agree to accept the award of Lever Brothers, Limited, as final. Should you have to write us on the subject of this competition be careful to give your name and full address on the letter and address the envelope thus :— "Sunlight" Year=Book Competition. Little Folks' Department. Messrs. LEVER BROTHERS, Limited, Port 8tjnlight, near Biekenhead. Children of employees of Lever Brothers, Limited,are debarred from competing. PRIZES. Ihe five girls or boys who are awarded the first prizea £ s. a. will each receive a Lady's half-hunter rolled gold wateh. Prize, £4 4s. each 21 0 0 The ten girls or boys who are awarded the second prizes will each receive a Lady's half-hunter gilt watch. Prize £2 2s. each 21 0 Q The two hundred and thirty-two girls or boys who are awarded the third prizes will each receive the Bum of five shillings. 5a. each ., 58 0 0 £100 0 Q for the sake of effectiveness^