MUSIC. 207 the opening of the fine National Portrait Gallery by its donor, Mr. Alexander. Mr. G. F. Watts has given it sixteen portraits of famous men of the time, including one of the late Lord Leighton. Sir Edward Burne-Jones's water-colour, "Merlin and Nemiie," has been added to the Art Galleries of the South Kensington Museum. The Gallery of British Art has been opened, and the Clergy and Artists' Association has been formed. Mr. Thornycroft's marble statue of the Queen has been placed at the Eoyal Exchange, and Mr. Birch's statue of Her Majesty in Queen Victoria Street. Statues of Bright and Granville have been placed in the Central Hall, Houses of Parliament. Several new pictures have enriched the National Gallery and the Glasgow Corporation Gallery. The Scottish Academy, the Liverpool Exhibition, the Show of the Birming- ham Society, &c, were considered very attractive, while the gallery erected at Newlyn, in Cornwall, was well used by the painters who have made Cornwall their home. Perhaps a stronger tendency than before has marked the year for artists iio work more and more in the country. Personalia.—The unprecedented fact that three artists have held the Presidency of the Boyal Academy has occurred. Lord Xeighton died January 25th, 1896; Sir John Millais waa •elected as his successor February 25th, 1896, but he died on August 13th, 1896 ; and Mr. (now Sir) E. J. Poynter waa chosen to follow him on November 4th. Mr. Solomon J. Solomon and Mr. E. A. Abbey have been returned as A.R.A.'s, Mr. Cope beingproxime accessit (the nearest) after Mr. Abbey, and perhaps by this time is now elected. Mr. Ernest Crofts won the membership vacated by Mr. Stacy Marks, and Mr. Jackson has also become P.A. Mr. Yeames, R.A., has been appointed Curator of the Painted Hall, Greenwich Hospital, and also Librarian of the Poyal Academy. MUSIC. No decline can be chronicled in the support given to musio and musicians. Music is perhaps the most popular of the arts, if we exclude varied forms of literary art. Great concerts and performances of oratorios have drawn large audiences, while musical plays are exceedingly popular. The Handel Festival at the Crystal Palace also fell due in the summer of 1897—a not inappropriate " function" in the Queen's Diamond wherever SUNLIGHT SOAP is found.