COOKERY RECIPES. 325 both flavour and appearance will be injured. Remember that nothing should remain lying in the water after it is sufficiently cooked. Fish and vegetables are especially injured by this. Puddings.—Plum pudding can hardly be boiled too much; two hours to the pound is the least time that should bo allowed. Meat puddings, one hour to the pound, longer than this will do no harm. Apple pudding, roly-poly, &c, half hour to the pound. A Good Lemon Pudding.—Mix together \ lb. bread- crumbs, £ lb. fine chopped meat, £ lb. sifted white sugar, and the grated rind of 2 lemons, add the juice of 1 lemon, and finally 2 eggs beaten up ; place in a buttered basin and boil for three quarters of an hour. A Good Boiled Plum Pudding.—Mix together £ lb. of chopped-up beef suet, f lb. of flour, £ lb. of. bread-crumbs, £ lb. of stoned raisins (some cooks like to chop them also), £ lb. of currants, £ lb. of moist sugar, the chopped-up peel of a lemon, and half a grated nutmeg. The dry ingredients having been thoroughly mixed, 6 well-beaten eggs should be stirred in, or 3 eggs and 3 full teaspoonfuls of baking powder—also as much milk as is necessary to make a stiff paste. Tie the pudding in a floured cloth, but not too tight— bo that it may have room to swell; plunge it.juato boiling water and boil it for five hours. The puddingy should not be taken out of the cloth until just before it is eaten. Hunter's Pudding.— If minced cooked meat be used for this pudding instead of suet, the pudding may be eaten cold and slices may be taken by those whose avoca- tions lead them for hours away from home or restaurants. "Mix^ lb. of finely-shred beef suet, with a £ lb. of bread- crumbs and a £ lb. of flour, add £ lb. of stoned and chopped raisins, £ lb. of picked currants, ^ lb. of sugar, the grated rind and strained juice of half a lemon, a pinch of salt, half a nutmeg grated, and 1 oz. of candied lemon. When the dry ingredients are thoroughly mixed, stir in 4 well-beaten eggs, and either milk, beer, port wine, or brandy, sufficient to make a stiff batter. Put the mixture into a buttered mould, and boil six or seven hours. This pudding will keep for several months, and when used may be either cut into slices and SUNLIGHT SOAP will make it so.