COOKERY RECIPES. 323 flour, pour in the milk and work all lightly together. Place pieces of the dough on the baking tin with a fork. Do not touch with the hand or the cakes will be heavy. A Good Cake.—Mix lbs. of flour and I lb. of brown sugar; add half a teacupful of good yeast and a I pint of lukewarm milk, stirring the while; knead.all well together to dough and set it to rise near the fire. When the dough has risen add £ lb. currants, or a teaspoonful of caraway seeds and £ lb. melted butter in J pint of milk. Knead once more and let the dough rise again near the fire. Put in tin, and bake for about an hour in a moderate oven. A Superior Macaroni Pudding.—Boil inch lengths of macaroni in milk till tender. Thinly line a pie dish with pie- crust. Nearly bake it and place inside the macaroni and milk and add beaten eggs to almost fill the dish; sweeten to taste, and bake the whole in a gentle oven; the preparation must not boil. Queen Cakes.—Mix together 1 lb. each of dried flour, sifted sugar, and clean currants. Beat up 1 lb. of butter, and mix with it 8 eggs (whites and yolks beaten separately), add the dry ingredients by degrees. Then beat the whole together, some authorities say for an hour. Place the batter in little tins or cups and sift fine sugar over as you place in the oven. IV.—Boiling. General Principles.—Meat, boiled to serve as a joint, should be put into fast boiling water, which should boil for at least five minutes; if the joint be large, allow ten minutes ; the pot must then be drawn to the side where the water will only simmer gently for the rest of the time of cooking. The gentle simmering permits a slow, steady heat to penetrate to the inside, which cooks the meat without depriving it of its juice. But in boiling meat and bones for soup-stock and beef-tea the opposite principle must be observed, because the object is to extract the juices, and so get all the flavour and nourish- ment out of the meat and bones; therefore, they should be chopped up and put into cold water, which should gradually come to a simmer until the meat is " done to rags," and the bones become bare and marrowless. The lid should always be kept on while stock or soup is making in order to preserve Why not get SUNLIGHT SOAP—the Best ?