324 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. the flavour and goodness. Quarter hour to the pound, and one quarter hour over to the entire time. This is only average time—as the quality and size of joint must be considered. Veal and pork need longer cooking than other meat. Fish.—Put fish into cold or tepid well salted water. Some cooks, however, make salmon an exception to this rule, and use boiling water, which certainly causes the fish to be of a better colour. Very small fish are better steamed (for large fish allow £ lb. salt to a gallon of water, for small fish 4 ozs. to gallon), if this is omitted the fish will not be so well flavoured—and bring quickly to boiling point. If the fish is very big and thick the water may boil rather briskly till it is done; but otherwise fast boiling will cause the outside to be cooked and break to pieces before the inside is done. The fish-kettle or saucepan should be filled, and the fish laid into the water. Turbot should be rubbed over—on its white side—with a cut lemon before cooking. About ten minutes to the pound. Here again size and shape influence the time, a thick cut of salmon may need nearly double this time. Fish is very injurious if underdone. The flesh, if done enough, should easily separate from the bone. Fowls should be put in hot water, not salted, and the water • ust only simmer ; if it boils too fast the fowl will be ragged. The lid of t£e pot should be kept on while boiling meat, fish >r fowL Chickens twenty minutes to half an hour. Fowl half to one hour, according to size, Turkeys, one and a half urs for moderate sized bird. bs Vegetables.—Put green vegetables after washing them well, and new potatoes into plenty of fast-boiling well-salted water, and boil fast with the lid off. The exception to this rule is spinach, which must be put into a pot with only the water that clings to it from washing, it Trill cook in its own juice. Old potatoes, Jerusalem artichokes, dried peas and beans are put into cold water. Potatoes largo, old, require from twenty minutes to half an hour. Asparagus, spinach, seakale, sprouts, cabbage, take twenty minutes to half an hour. Old carrots require long boiling to make them tender. ckimming.— In boiling all kinds of food skimming is most important. As the scum rises it should be removed, or If you wish your linen to be as white as snow,