"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 4i4 GENTLEMEN'S DOUBLES. 18S5 W. Renshaw and E. Ren- shaw 1886 W. Renshaw and E. Ren- shaw 1887 P. B. Lyon and H. W. W. Wilberforce 1888 W. Renahaw and E. Ren- ahaw :1889 W. Renshaw and E. Ren- shaw 1890 J. Pirn and E. O. Stoker 1891 W. Baddeley and H. Badde- ley 1892 H. S. Barlow and E. W. Lewis 1893 J. Pim and F. O. Stoker 1894 W. Baddeley and E. Badde- ley 1895 W. Baddeley and H. Badde- ley 189G W. Baddeley and H. Badde- ley ROWING.—The Henley Regatta of 1896, which took place on July 7, 8, and 9 achieved a record of entries (58), these including several from foreign competitors. Indeed, it was at one time believed that an additional day's racing would be needed; but withdrawals and non- arrivals at the last moment enabled the programme to be got through in the usual period. Unfortunately, rain on the first afternoon and strong winds on the following days materially interfered with tha success of the meeting from a racing point of view, tbough the atten- dance left nothing to be desired. Great interest was taken in the entry of a crew from Yale College for the Grand Challenge Cup ; but the !Americans were beaten in their trial heat by Leander, who, after disposing of New College, succeeded in winning the trophy. Eton College again won the Ladies' Challenge Plate ; the brothers Nickalla (L R.C.) carried off the Stewards' Challenge Fours, and were equally successful in the raoe for the Silver Goblets (to which the Nickalls Challenge Cup is now added). The Wteold Challenge Cup fell to Trinity College, Oxford, While the Visitors' Challenge Cup was secured by Oaius College, Cambridge. The Diamond Challenge Sculls were easily retained by the holder, the Hon. R. Guinness (Leander R.C.), and the Thames Challenge Cup was won by Trinity College, Oxford. In the contest for the Wingfield Sculls, rowed over the Thames Cham- pionship course on July 17th, the Hon. R. Guinness succeeded m taming the tables on hia previous year's conqueror, V. Nickalls, after a good race. The winner, aa well aa his brother, the Hon. E. A. Guinness, were afterwards very successful in many of the subsequent regattas. In October, 1896, by way of variety to the attempts rnade by foreigiiers to conquWour champions, R. P. Croft (Thames and Trinity Hall R.O.) defeated F. Boudin for the Amateue Championship or Fr *clThe chief professional races of importance were the matches foi the World a Championship between Harding and Stanbmy and Stanbury and Gaudaur The former, in which the stake was £500 a-side, took place o^er the Thames Championship Course on July 13th, 1896, and waa won easily by Stanbury, who led from the start. Immediately after a match fJom Putney to Mortlake was arranged between Stanbury and Gaudaur for £250 a-side, the date fixed being September th, 189b. DoSS to general expectation, Gaudaur took the lead after going ££ iJ mile, ^S^vooA^^ "SUNLIGHT SOAP is made in a twin bar