3o6 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP is made in a special manner walk about; the ladies often sit, the hostess finding them seats, or deputing others to do so. At dinner parties the host or hostess also generally indicates to the various gentlemen the ladies they shall ask to take in to dinner from the draw- ing to the dining room. When dinner is announced, the host leaves the drawing-room first, giving his arm to the lady of highest rank, the hostess comes last with the gentleman of highest rank. Gloves are not removed until the guests are seated at table, then they are taken off at once. After dessert the lady of the house makes a slight bow to the lady of highest rank present, the ladies then go to the drawing-room, the host holding the dining-room door open as they pass out, the othor gentlemen also standing as the ladies leave the room. The ladies leave the dining-room in the same order of precedence as they entered it, the lady of highest rank going first, the hostess last. Luncheons are less formal than late dinners and a luncheon is often a good, substantial meal. Gentlemen belong- ing to the family need not appear until the repast is served and may retire directly the meal is concluded; the idea being (that they have professional or business duties to attend to. If gentlemen are invited as guests, the husband or some male relative of the hostess is expected to be present to receive them. For a lady to receive gentlemen at luncheon, by invitation, and in absence of the husband or head of the house, is not "good form." Unless particularly requested, guests should depart at the conclusion of luncheon. Ladies may appear in ordinary walking or morning attire and the trouble of " dressing for dinner " is avoided. Servants do not usually wait at table at luncheon after the joint has been 16 Shaking Hands.—A gentleman should never be the first to offer to shake hands with a lady, except in cases of very great intimacy, or unless he be the superior of the lady in age and in position. Unmarried ladies, as a rule never offer to shake hands with gentlemen who are but slight acquain- tances. Sufficient and quite polite signs of recognition are a bow or slight curtsey on the part of the lady, responded to by a lif ted hat, or bow,.on the part of the gentleman Further^ in shaking hands, there should be but a slight or gentle pressure and a slight movement from the wrist.