LITERATURE. Colonial stories are making their welcome appearance, and when well done, as in Mr. Louis Becke's " South-Sea Stories " and Mr. Joseph. Conrad's " Outcast of the Islands," win great attention and approval, as witness also Mr. Eolf Boldrewood's- Australian books, and Mr. Marcus Clarke's " Stories of Aus- tralia." Anglo-Indian life has been represented by Mrs. F. A. Steel's "Face of the Waters," and by Miss Alice Kipling's^ " Pinchbeck Goddess." Miss Kipling is a sister of Mr. Eudyard Kipling, and her married name is Mrs. Fleming. Mrs. F. A. Steel has added to her reputation by her story, the " Gift of the Gods," which appeared originally in CasseU's Magazine. Admirers of Mrs. Hungerford's stories have welcomed her well-known light and humorous touch in her last book, " Lovice," mingled with t regret at her lamented death ; and Annie S. Swan has issued her novel of a lady doctor under the title of " Mrs. Keith Hamilton, M.B." " Ouida " in her new book, " The Massarenes," has returned from Italy and scathingly satirizes some phases of London fashionable society. We need hardly add that good and wholesome stories, and books for boys and girls and young people have appeared, in plenty, among the writers being George Manville Fenn,. G. A. Henty, Eobert Leighton, F. M. Holmes, Harry Colling- wood, L. T. Meade, Evelyn Everett Green, Dr. Gordon Stables^. E. Harcourt Burrage, Eliza Pollard, &c. Poetry. The Poet Laureate, Mr. Alfred Austin, has issued a volume, " The Conversion of Winckelmann, and other Poems," in which he shows he can sing with a sweeter and stronger note than some folks thought when he burst forth into verse shortly after his appointment. Mr. Swinburne has been represented by his poem, the "Tale of Balen," showing much of his remarkable MB' ALFBED AUSTI^- power, and Mr. Eudyard Kipling's "Seven Seas," and Mr. John Davidson's "New Ballads" have both been notable books, and will certainly maintain if not add to their writers' reputation. Connected with English poetry are a couple of makes homes brighter and hearts lighter.