BURGER'S SECRET^ 44i together, and each had been attracted by the other's know- ledge. And then gradually something had been added to this. _ Kennedy had been amused by the frankness and Simplicity of his rival, while Burger in t turn had been fascinated by the brilliancy and vivacity which had made Kennedy such a favourite in Roman society. I say " had," because just at the moment the young Englishman was somewhat under a cloud. A love affair, the details of which had never quite come out, had indicated a heartlessness and callousness upon his part which shocked many of his friends. But in the bachelor circles of students and artists in which he preferred to move there is no very rigid code of honour m such matters, and though a head might be shaken or a pair of shoulders shrugged over the flight of two and the return of one, the general sentiment was probably one of curiosity and perhaps of envy rather than of reprobation " Look here, Burger," said Kennedy, looking hard at the placid face of his companion, "I do wish that you would confide m me." As he spoke he waved his hand in the direction of a ru* Which lay upon the floor. On the rug stood a long, shallow fruit basket of the light wicker-work which is used in the Oampana, and this was heaped with a litter of obiects, inscribed tiles, broken inscriptions, cracked mosaics, torn papyri rusty metal ornaments, which to the uninitiated might have seemed to have come straight from a dustman's biff, but which a specialist would have speedily recognised as unique of their kind. The pile of odds and ends in the flat; wicker-work basket supplied exactly one of those missing hi ^ s°clalT.devel°Pment which are of such interest to ?3 ?S r ? Wa,S the Germau who had brought them in, and the Englishman's eyes were hungry as he looked at them. vervZnl ;w f6 W1lh y0Ur Measure-trove, but I should IfZ SI +ert0 r!ar ^°Ut he continued, while Burger of th. ?T-6ly 5 a ciSar* "Jt is Gently a discovery t^^^r^rinscriptions wm make a German ^f?^ here there are a miUion ! » said the uerm!fL___There are so mmJ that a dozen savants might washed with SUNLIGHT SOAP.