"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK, 3oo SUNLIGHT SOAP "butter" belonging to it has not been removed. Such persons should take the soluble cocoa, or extracts, that are sold. On the other hand if an infusion of the " fat " cocoa be permitted to cool, the fat solidifies on the top and can be removed; Alcoholic Drinks.—As a rule these are not necessary to health and are usually injurious, consequently they are not economical. People should avoid contracting the habit of drinking, whether alcoholic or other beverages. Too much fluid in the stomach produces ill-health. A certain exception may perhaps be made in favour of milk, because milk is such a nutritious food, but much fruit and many vegetables contain fluid in themselves. The body of course needs fluid, but there is all the difference between drinking to supply the healthy needs of the body and drinking for the sake of habit, even if the drink be non-alcoholic. It is the drink- habit as wasteful, uneconomical and positively unhealthy, that we are now denouncing. An enormous amount of money is annually wasted in drinks of various kinds that would buy better food, better clothes, better furniture, better books, better everything in short, and more of it. Remember then to avoid over-drinking even at meals ; it is distinctly unhealthy, as it lowers the tone of, and disorders the stomach; even too long a draught of water is bad, but as a rule the temptation to drink too much water seldom arises. Joints of Meat.—A good leg of mutton ought to be the most economical of joints. A 10-pound leg should provide a dinner for about 18 persons, or last three days for six people. Boiled beef is more economical than roast; but boiled neck of mutton is probably the most uneconomical joint you can buy. All bones should be stewed, as they make good "stock" for soup, as also does all the liquor in which meat has been boiled (see "Cookery"). All dripping should be saved and clarified; it is excellent for pastry, and at a pinch forni3 a good substitute for butter. Clothing-.—There are two objects to be aimed at in dress, though some people think there is only one—namely, adorn- ment. But the preservation of the natural heat of the body and its defence from the variations of climate and weather should come first. Flannel or woollen goods of some kind