2l6 "SUNLIGHT" YEAK-BUUK. turning their attention to the similar use of water power to generate electricity. In Great Britain the most celebrated instance is at the Falls of Foyers, in Inverness-shire, where the manufacture of chlorate of potash and acetylene gas (a new illuminant) is being carried on by means of electric power. In the United States water power is being used for the production of electricity in probably more than 300 places. "With a serviceable electric motor and a means of cheaply producing the electric current, it is most likely that we shall see an extended use of electricity for all kinds of things. Thus the electric dynamo and motor have been applied to ploughing, and to driving a threshing machine, and also to running fire-engines. The acetylene—the new illuminant spoken of just now— which has been made during the year at the Falls of Foyers "Works—is prepared from carbide of calcium. The carbide in fact yields this gas when put into water, and thus can be distributed easily in the solid form. The gas is said to be cheap and very powerful in its power of illumination. But when mixed with air it is apt to become very explosive. AsTBONOMY. In astronomy, the total eclipse of the sun on August 9 th, 1896, proved almost a total failure, though an English party ;0f observation in Sir G. Baden Powell's yacht at Nova Zembla obtained some success. A long streamer or appendage was seen stretching out from the sun on the north-east corner estimated to be 750,000 miles, while another extended m the north-west for some 500,000 miles. Mars was in a favourable position for scrutiny in the winter though his observers had to be up early in the morning. The great work of photo- graphing the heavens h.as progressed steadily. A great Scheme fs being carried out of photographing the entire sky, in which Greenwich Observatory and several foreign observa- tories are taking part, each photographing its own allotted Bpace This marvellous sidereal photography is among other !ws adding greatly to our list of small planets which now number over^O. in eclipse of the- sun took place on February 1st, 1897, and another on July 29th, but both were invisible at Greenwich. The next, and an important rg^^oceur m January 1898, and the British Astro; Prize Dogs and Poultry should be