328 " SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. milk. When tender, thicken the liquor in which the celery has been boiled with a little flour, and butter, pepper, and salt to taste. VI.—Steaming. The General Principle consists in putting the article to be cooked into a basin or jar, covering it with a cloth wrung out of boiling water and floured, or a greased paper, and placing it in a steamer. If this is not at hand the basin or jar may stand in a saucepan of boiling water, which should only reach half up its side. VII.—Frying. General Principle.—Plenty of fat (lard or dripping) should be used, except for chops or steaks. To know if fat is the right heat for frying fish, cutlets, &c, pour a drop or two of water on to the pan from a spoon. If it hisses the heat is right. To Cook a Chop or Steak in the Frying pan.— Have a strong iron frying-pan (not an enamelled one), place it on the fire till it gets almost red hot, put on the steak or chop with a pair of tongs (sugar-tongs will do, or use two spoons), and turn every ten seconds. From six to twelve minutes will cook chop or steak, according to thickness. ' Broiling is done on^a gridiron over a clear fire. The difficulty of always being sure of a clear fire makes the above method of frying a beef-steak very useful. A griller on a gas stove is also very serviceable. Sauces (for Fish, Meats, and Vegetables).—Economical substitute for melted butter—Blend quite smoothly 1 table- spoonful of corn-flour in a little cold milk or water, add 1 pint of boiling milk. Stir one way, and boil for five minutes. This can be used as a fish sauce by adding either lobster, oyster (tinned or fresh), shrimps, anchovy, hard-boiled eggs, chopped gherkins (for salmon), ^rsley, or ketchup, or mustard (for herrings), with a little vinegar and cayenne. As a meat sauce, add capers or parsley for boiled mutton, or boiled onions for shoulder of ditto. For fowl add parsley ot celerv (boiled and chopped), or pickled nasturtiums, or mush- rooms. For rabbits, add boiled onions. Equal parts of milk Prize Dogs and Poultry should be