i.\OTES ON GOOD BREEDING. u At Homes " (whether for dancing, music, theatricals, etc.) are sent in the name of the lady only, as "Mrs. Brown at Home." The day and date must always he put on invitations. If the invitation is for dinner, the dinner-hour is stated. If the card is for an " At Home," 4 to 7, or 9.30 to 12, is put, as the case may be. llefreshments for afternoon " At Home" are served in the dining-room, or in a tent upon the lawn, and consist of tea, coffee, ices, fruit, cakes, &c, and with or with- out wine and champagne, or claret cup. For evening "At Homes "on a large scale, a regular supper should be provided. Declining or Accepting Invitations.—As a rule, a person invited to dinner, or to an entertainment, should be careful how- he accepts it, unless he or she is prepared to make a similar,, or some return; for persons always dining at a friend's house and never giving a return do not appear to advantage, to- say the least. ^ In short, self-respect prevents persons from accepting civilities, or continually accepting civilities that they cannot adequately return. Nevertheless, travellers having no establishment of their own near by may unquestion- ably accept invitations to dinner, and are indeed, some say, expected to accept them; unmarried men, also, may accept such invitations, and inferiors may accept, without an "adequate" return being expected. But in declining, such invitations, care should always be taken to da so in a most courteous and polite manner. It is most important that invitations to dinner should be answered at. once. Some thoughtless people defer doing so for several days, and the hostess is thus caused serious inconvenience by being kept waiting to know if all her guests are coming, for if not, she may have to obtain substitutes, and this is often difficult, or impossible at short notice. Having accepted the invitation to dinner, or At Home, or party, when the time arrives and you enter a crowded room go as straight as you can to the hostess. The rule is to notice no one until you have presented yourself and bowed to the hostess, and of course the host also, should he be welcoming guests with her. If sufficiently intimate, the nostess offers her hand, the visitor then makes a remark or two, and retires to make way for other guests. A gentleman may find a chair for himself, or stand, or may for the sake of quality.