336 "SUNLIGHT" YEARBOOK. ~When SUNLIGHT SOAP is used testimony of no less a person than Sir Charles Cameron, M.D., and he gives the best proof of the value of Sunlight Soap for everyday toilet use, by saying thathe uses it himself. The other is the testimony of a physician whose speciality is skin diseases. The guaranteed purity of a well-known article which is used by millions of people, and into the manufacture of which scientific knowledge enters, should convince us that it is a cleanser which cannot injure the most sensitive skin. Wash for Irritable Eruption cn Scalp or Face.— Toilet vinegar, 6 ozs.; Lever's Glycerine, 2 ozs. For Sunburn (very Cooling and Healing).—Chop up a fresh cucumber, and squeeze out the juice in a lemon squeezer. Mix this with a like quantity of Lever's Glycerins and rose water mixed together in equal parts. Complexion Powders are very injurious to the skin of tha face. They, even if innocent in themselves, fill up the pore% cause them to enlarge, and so cause the skin to become coarse. Fuller's earth is the least injurious of all toilet powder? except boracic acid powder, which is the best of all for use aa a dusting powder after the bath. It is an antiseptic powder and scented with orris root or otto of roses, makes a delightful powder for use after exercise. The Hands.—A very simple method of keeping the hands in good condition is to wash them frequently (particularly after doing work that soils them much) with Sunlight Soap and hot water, drying thoroughly, and then rubbing in a few drops of glyeerine(uae Lever's) and rose water. These should be mixed in equal parts and kept in a small bottle on the Washstand, Glycerine and rose water is specially recom- mended for rough hands by Dr. Malcolm Morris, the eminent skin specialist. He particularly condemns the use of pumice Btone for the hands. If an old pair of soft suede gloves be kept for the purpose of sleeping inland glycerine and rose water be freely rubbed in before bed-time, and the gloves drawn on without drying the hands, they will soon become aa eoft as satin. Eose water can be cheaply bought at any chomist's. A Perfect Nursery Soap.—The skins of infants and young children are much more tender and easily injured than