BURGER'S SECRET. 445 an old love affair which has burned out months ago. You know we look upon a man who kisses and tells as the greatest coward and villain possible." " Certainly," said the German, gatherings up his basket of curiosities, " when he tells anything aboutf.na girl which ia previously unknown he must be so. But in this case, aa you must be aware, it was a public matter which was the common talk of Kome, so that you are not really doing Misa Mary Saunderson any injury by discussing her case with meu ™ . stl}1, 1 resPect y°ur scruples, and so good-night !" Wait a bit, Burger," said Kennedy, laying his hand upon the other's arm, "I am very keen upon this catacomb business, and I can't let it drop quite so easily. Woul<3 you mind asking me something else in return—something not quite so eccentric this time ?" "No, no, you have refused, and there is an end of it," said Burger, with his basket on his arm. " No doubt you are quite right not to answer, and no doubt I am quite right also—and so again, my dear Kennedy, good-night !" Ine Englishman watched Burger cross the room, and he had his hand on the handle of the door before his host sprang up with the air of a man who is making the best of that which cannot be helped. . " Hold °n' °ld fellow," said he, «■ I think you are behaving; m a most ridiculous fashion, but still, if this is your condition I suppose that I must submit to it. I hate sav- ing anything about a girl, but, as you say, it is all over -Koine, and I don't suppose I can tell you anything,-which know ?" already- What WaS ** you wauted *° Vo^6 7Gffan C?me back t0 the stove> and> ^ying down his basket he sank into his chair once more May I have another cigar ?" said he. " Thank you very much ! I never smoke when I work, but I enjoy a chat much more when I am under the influence of tobacco! Now, aS regards this young lady, with whom you had thia httle adventure. What in the world has become of her ?" « ~,e 18 at home witn her own people." Oh, really, in England ?" ^UNLIGHT^OAPlFworth its weight in gold. "