I58 " SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. In Hindustan the Indian Survey has continued its work. There are mountains on the N.W. Indian frontier rising over 20,000 ft. high. Several travellers have been busy in different parts of Central Asia, Mr, and Mrs, Littledale and Mr, Fletcher rinding determined opposition from the natives of Thibet in an attempt to reach Lhasa. One of the most startling and at the same time captivating suggestions has come from France, where certain travellers have proposed the planting of trees in the great desert of Sahara, Experiments have been made, and in valleys with a little water, trees like the acacia, the tamarisk, the eucalyptus—which is useful in medicine and sanitation—and curiously, the poplar, have been found to flourish. It is expected that under these trees fruits and .vegetables might be grown successfully. Clear-sighted men like M. Deschaud see that the very arid and barren plateaux of the desert must be left, but urge that attempts at tree raising should be made in suitable spots. Thus, from various quarters we receive news of energetic surveys and explorations, and while French, Germans, Austrians, and Norwegians are busy, we may say, without boasting that our own countrymen are not behindhand ; they show themselves worthy of the race to which belong Sir Franci3 Drake and the intrepid sea-rovers and world-explorers of the Elizabethan days. STATES OF THE WORLD. WITH AREAS, POPULATIONS, CAPITALS, FORMS OF GOVERNMENT, Etc. Abyssinia.-A highland state of Eastern Africa and virtually an Italian Protectorate. Area about 150 000 square miles. Despotic ruler, Menehk of Shoa since 1889. Headquarters of the Italian possessions Massowah. U»™iu» religion introduced in 4th century. Capital, Gondar. Popu- lation about 3 to 3£ millions. . , T„ Afghanistan.—A mountainous region, between India north-west and Asiatic Eussia, having ^.^inhaHtX nuted at about 300,000 square miles. Half the inhabitants, oXved tcrnumber'6,000%0 are true some writers been supposcdJo^etheLo^tT^ JusUHneloTell you SUNLIGHT SOAP