ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. 243 buildings that the interest of the public is most keenly touched. It is in our homes that we can realise most clearly the advantages of good architecture. Country homes and town houses of the most picturesque charm have been built in our time by R. Norman Shaw, W. Eden Nesfield, Philip Webb, J. D. Sedding, Ernest George & Peto, Douglas & Ford- ham, Ernest Newton, E. S. Prior, E. J". May, Mervyn Macart- ney, and others. Such homes as these it would not be possi- ble to surpass in the whole world for combined beauty and comfort. To the general public they are practically unknown, certainly as regards their interiors, but they form a most important item in counting up the quality of modern English architecture. Our beautiful old English homes are more widely known, but it is on a careful study of these that the designs of our best modern homes have been based. As the building of houses touches most nearly the personal interest of us all, it is in the architecture of private dwellings that we should be most appreciative of progress and develop- ment. Fortunately, for us in England, domestic architecture is the strong point of English architects, though their efforts in this direction are too often nullified by the architectural degeneracy of the times, and lack of discriminative apprecia- tion on the part of the public. And it is not alone in the homes of the wealthy, but also in cottages that we find evidence of genuine improvement, both from an artistic and. sanitary point of view. It is greatly to be desired that so practical an art as that of architecture should be brought home more closely to the appreciation of all, both rich and poor. Doubtless the really best architectural results in house interiors are practically unknown to the bulk of English people, for even if they had the discernment to appreciate these qualities they have little or no opportunity of seeing them. It is not at all necessarily m the mansions of the wealthy that we find evidence of first-rate architectural talent, for many noted big houses are both vulgarly ostentatious and characterless in design, li the public realised how much artistic charm and cosiness might be imparted to the simplest homes, at little or nothing beyond the ordinary cost, they would surely make the small eflort needful to secure brighter and pleasanter homes. The makes light work of a heavy wash.