" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. 122 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Edinburgh, 1890. Union for England and Wales (Secretary, Eev. W. J. Woods, B.A., Memorial Hall, Farringdon Street, London, E.O.), one for Scotland, one for Ireland, and have a great number of religious and philanthropic organizations. The London Mis- sionary Society, though undenominational in character, is very largely supported by Congregationalists. t The Baptists. ! Like their Congregational brethren, the Baptists hold also the doctrine that every Church should be free from external control in ecclesiastical affairs. But they hold that baptism should be administered only on profession of faith, and that the mode should be by imme»sion and not by sprinkling or pouring. The Baptists claim that one of their churches existed in England'in 1417, and several claim to have been founded before Elizabeth's reign. Since then they have grown amazingly, and though there are some sub- divisions, the great bulk of their churches unite m County and a National Union, (Secretary, Eev. Dr. S. H. Booth, Mission House, Eurnival Street, London). Their Foreign Missionary Society was founded in 1792. The num- ber of their chapels in Great Britain and Ireland is over 3,820, with nearly 2,000 pastors. The Presbyterians. Presbyterianism, it is said, was known in the early Church, and in Scotland, even before a bishop was appointed. But Calvin and John Knox practically gave Presbytenanism the shape svhich it has since exhibited, though since modified. A Presbytery is composed of the ministers and some ot the elders of a district who have superintendence of the congre- gations ; and to the Presbytery appeals may be made. There are also Synods and Assemblies. Many of the Puritans not being Separatists, were Presbyterian: in 1572 a Presbyterian Church had boldly been formed at Wandsworth. After the passing of the Toleration Act in 1689, the organization of the Eno-lish Presbyterians appears to have declined ; some joined ^Independents, and some, perhaps most, But about 1843, the date of the formation of the Free Chuuh in Scotland, signs of renewed life stirred many Pr^byterians £ England an! in 1876 two English Synods joined and took thenime_ohhe^