"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. COOKERY RECIPES. I.—Soup. General Hints for Soup-making; the Stock.—Well- ■snade soup is very nourishing, and forms an uncommonly good beginning for dinner. The basis is generally "stock," •or liquid in which lean meat or bones have been simmered. The meat should be cut into small pieces, and the bones •should be well broken; a quart of water may be used for every pound of meat. Let the water heat slowly and skim off the scum as it rises. Do not permit the water to boil, except gently. When the scum seems all removed, add the vegetables, such as one, or perhaps two, turnips, an onion with cloves stuck in it, parsnips, carrots, and a few sweet ■herbs. Add salt to taste after the meat is cooked. The mixture may be set aside to cool till morning, and the fat ean then be taken off. Much waste in the kitchen will be prevented by having a stock pot and making good use of soups. A stock pot with special construction maybe bought, but any pot with a lid will do; if it is of iron, however, it should be well tinned inside. Into this every scrap of kitchen waste, except fish, should be put—bacon rinds, bones (crushed^ or chopped small), &c, with water, and it should be stewing (again we any not boiling) on the fire whenever the hob is not •occupied with anything else. It is better not to put vege- tables into the stock pot, but all vegetable scraps (except potato parings) should be boiled by themselves, and the water strained from them makes an excellent addition to the stock when it is made into soup. The water that meat—salt or fresh—or fowl has been boiled m, should never be thrown away; put it into the stock pot instead. In summer, stock needs boiling up every day to keep it from turning ; but in winter, stock that is coated with fat (as it always is when cold) will keep good in a cold larder for a fortnight. A Good Beef or Mutton Soup.—Cut up £ lb. lean beef or mutton; wash a £ lb. rice, and cut up a I lb. each of turnip, carrot, and tomato; the meat and vegetables may be cut to about £ in. square. Cut up also 3 stalks of celery very small, or, if you prefer, SUNLIGHT SOAP,"