465 PORT SUNLIGHT. exact reproduction of Shakespeare's "birthplace at Stratford-on- Avon. But the immortal William would not recognise his birthplace, for modern ideas have made the interior very different from that on which he opened his eyes. And the rents ? For 3s. a week there are cottages with a large kitchen, scullery, three bedrooms and bath-room; and there are no taxes at all, net even for water. For 5s. a week there are houses as above, but with a parlour and extra bedrooms; and there are a few larger houses for the heads of the departments. The broad roads are planted, like boulevards, with elm and chestnut trees. There are some fine old oak trees, too. Within sight of most of the houses are the " allotment" gardens, for which the demand among the Port Sunlight workmen is greater than the supply, and, to the thinking of the present scribe, theso gardens form one of the sunniest features of the Sunlight village. About eight rods of ground go to a garden, and the rent required is the sum of one shilling a year. Besides, the firm provides the gardens with water-taps. Happy gardeners, to have water "laid on" even at the roots of your cabbages. An "eight hours' day" is the rule of Port Sunlight. Work begins at seven and stops at five, with an hour and a half for meals. There is a long evening therefore for gardening. But this is only one of the forms of recreation which these people can turn to ; there are many others, and they, as well as the gardens, are managed by The Village Council. Tastes of all kinds—grave and gay, musical, athletip, dramatic, artistic, studious—are catered for, so that there is a chance for all to develop whatever inherent talents they may have; and the Village Council, chosen from among them- selves, administers the affairs of the community, as the Parliament at Westminster directs the affairs of the nation of which Port Sunlight is a part. The Gladstone Hall stands near the entrance to the works. Opened in 1891, by the Eight Hon. W. E. Gladstone, it is the centre of Dramatic Entertainments, and a good deal more beside?. Every Sunday evening there is held in it a " Pleasant Sunday Evening," when good programmes are makes linen whiter and homes brighter.