450 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. to follow a narrow and devious track which wound across the marshes of the Campaiia. The great Aqueduct of old Home lay like a monstrous caterpillar across the moonlit landscape, and their road led them under one of its huge arches and past the circle of crumbling bricks which marks the old arena. At last Burger stopped at a solitary wooden cowhouse, and he drew a key from his pocket. "Surely your catacomb is not inside a house!" cried Kennedy. " The entrance to it is. That is just the safeguard which we have against anyone else discovering it." u Does the proprietor know of it?" " Not he. He had found one or two objects which made me almost certain that his house was built on the entrance to such a place. So I rented it from him, and did my excavations for myself. Come in, and shut the door behind you." It was a long, empty building, with the mangers of the cows along one wall. Burger put his lantern down on the ground, and shaded its light in all directions save one by draping his overcoat round it. •' It might excite remark if anyone saw a light in this lonely place," said he. "Just help me to move this boarding!" The flooring was loose in the corner, and plank by plank the two savants raised it and leaned it against the wall. Below there was a square aperture and a stair of old stone steps which led away down into the bowels of the earth. "Be careful!" cried Burger, as Kennedy in his impatience hurried down them. " It is a perfect rabbit's warren below, and if you were once to lose your way there the chances would be a hundred to one against your ever coming out again. Wait until I bring the light." "How do you find your own way if it is so complicated?" "I had some very narrow escapes at first but I have gradually learned to go about. There is a certain system to it, but it is one which a lost man, if he were in the dark, could not possibly find out. Even now I always spin out a ball of string behind me when I am going far into the A friend in need is a friend indeed—