a78 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BUUK water, and showed that, "With the two per cent, mixture, cholera microbes were dead within fifteen minutes; with the five per cent., same were dead within fifteen minutes." The neglect of domestic and personal cleanliness is a great inducement to cholera. The use, therefore, of plenty of Lifebuoy Soap to easily keep everything clean as a new pin may be regarded as a great preventive. Colds (cold in the head).—Never neglect a cold. The symptoms are too well known to need description. The homely remedies of a hot foot-bath, hot gruel, and a good night's rest should be used at once, and bronchitis, pleurisy, &c, mav be avoided. Constipation.—Want of movement of the bowels, lake fruit with breakfast, or before it, and use fruit constantly m the daily diet. Baked apples and stewed prunes are very useful. Salad dressed with salad oil may be taken freely if digested, also green vegetables. Some persons find a glass of hot or cold water, according to taste, before retiring to bed, and also before rising in the morning, useful in this complaint. Coffee or cocoa should be used instead of tea, and fresh, bread and cakes avoided. If arising from weakness of the system rest is desirable; practise the habit of soliciting the bowels at the same time every day, and also never delay the call of nature in this respect; great derangement of the system and ill health, if not worse, may follow the neglect of this simple but necessarily healthful rule. Purgatives should not be indiscreetly used but rather avoided unless under medical advice; an injection of a teaspoonful of g^erine (Lever's) should be taken to procure a motion of the bowels, and small glass syringes may be bought cheaply at the chemist's fo? this especial purpose. Such injections will be found useful in overcoming this troublesome complaint. Consumption is too serious a matter for treatment here. The disease is reaUy a wasting away of the lungs.^ Much however, may be done by prompt remedial measures^early in the complaint, by attention to diet, and to fresh air, and by attenti&n to sound medical advice. ^V™™>™*' nutritious or poor food and want of good ««™J~ »™ ^« the causes ; consequently plenty of fresh air, plentJ ^ whole- some and digestible nourishment ^^^^^^i are among tie sound remedies, in addition to the continued You can't do without soap!