297 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. way, is, of course, pure milk, and should be ve .ry economical, Bay at twopence a quart. Herrings and Haddock are among the most nutritious of fish. Indeed, it has been said that herring and potatoes form a perfect diet. Both dried herring and haddock also are more nutritious than salmon. It is a true instinct which leads many people to like a Yarmouth bloater. Herring, haddock and skate, especially the two former, are excellent and economical fish. New Bread should never be used. The careful housewife should resolutely refuse to allow a loaf to be cut until twenty- four hours after baking. New bread is indigestible, and it is also eaten much more freely without satisfying hunger ; it does not " go so far," as housekeepers say. Consequently, being indigestible, it injures health, and is practically more costly without producing adequate return. A good housewife, in ordering bread, or in baking it, will always, therefore, arrange to have a succession of loaves about twenty-four hours old coming into use. This arrangement; may seem trivial. It is really most important, both from a health-giving and purse-saving point of view. Nothing would seem to indicate the thoughtless and careless housekeeper more than the appearance of bread that is too new and cut to waste at one meal, and bread that is too stale at another. Wheat and Oats.—A very economical dinner. These are valuable foods. Good Scotch oatmeal is more flesh- forming than wheat, but somehow it does not seem to suit southern stomachs so well as wheat. Probably English cooks do not make oatmeal porridge so daintily as their fellow- countrywomen across the Tweed. There are various ways, however, in which oatmeal might be used with advantage • and if a person is really pressed for a meal, and the coppers are few in the pocket, one of the best things to do is to buy one or two pennyworth of coarse Scotch oatmeal, shake it gradually into boiling water {note, the water must boil as the oatmeal is shaken in), and keep it boiling for twenty minutes or so, and then eat the porridge with a half-penny- worth or pennyworth of skim milk and a little sugar. Good oat- meal porridge and milk might, at a pinch, form a meal for a tamily at very little cost; and if a herring, or even half a makes linen whiter and homes brighter.