389 THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. Toothache.—"When arising solely from a hollow tooth, 'toothache may be cured by a few drops of chloroform on a piece of cotton wool pressed into the cavity, or a paste may be made of cayenne pepper and brandy or whiskey and pressed into the hollow. Quinine may be taken as an internal remedy, and the tooth should be* stopped by a competent dentist. The proper care of the teeth is most important. Children should early be taught the effective use of the tooth-brush, and nothing is better for cleaning the teeth than soap. Rub a soft tooth-brush over a piece of Sunlight Soap, and then thoroughly brush the teeth on both sides, night and morning, both on retiring to rest and on rising. Tartar should never form on them with this treatment; but if it should have formed before the continued use of soap, a little powdered cuttle-fish bone may be permitted. Skin Diseases.—The skin is one of the vital organs; myriads of pores pierce it everywhere. Through them the blood "breathes" as it were and absorbs the purifying oxygen and the life-giving light, but the pores also carry off dele- terious matter, being connected with glands which separate impurities from the blood. If, then, the pores be closed by uncleanliness or by the constriction of cold, the constitution suffers ; the work of the skin is thrown on other organs, and they, having too much to do are likely to give way under the strain. Hence the immense value of cleanliness. Use plenty of Sunlight Soap which is a pure and cleansing soap. Small Pox.—Probably the most contagious disease to which mankind is subject. Send for a doctor at once, or remove to a good hospital. Keep the room as well ventilated as possible; use plenty of Lifebuoy Soap (see special use of Lifebuoy Soap further on), and smear the eruption with bacon fat daily, when it is well out; the fat prevents pitting and allays irritation; also sponge patient with tepid water, as it soothes the sufferer and aids convalescence. But never permit the patient to feel chilly. After the pustules have burst, still continue the sponging and dust powdered starch over them to absorb the discharge. We cannot too strongly insist on the importance of absolute cleanliness, thorough ventilation with- out subjecting the patient to chilliness or draughts, and the SUNLIGHT SOAP is worth its weight in gold.