SCIENTIFIC. 217 nomical Association will probably send an expedition to Northern India, which will form a suitable spot for observing ids Solar majesty under the circumstances of eclipse. Chemistry. The comparative failure of the Solar eclipse prevented any further knowledge being added to the chemistry of the Sun, but chemists have been busy with the new " elements," argon and helium. It now seems established that these are elementary bodies—that is, not compounds of other elements—but yet " they possess no chemical affinity, and do not enter into combination." Late in the year 1896 the Davy-Faraday Eesearch Labora- tory of the Eoyal Institution was opened, it having been completed under an endowmeO by Dr. Mond. Lord Eayleigh and Professor Dewar.are the cmeciGrs, and the superinten- dent, Dr. Scott, M.A. Speaking generally, manufacturers are coming to realise that knowledge of chemistry as applied to arts and manufactures is increasingly, nay, vitally important, and the subject of chemical education has been discussed by Sir Henry Eoscoe -and Dr. Gladstone. In Germany there are splendid laboratories which have a very marked influence on technical industries ; hitherto we, in Great Britain, have been somewhat indifferent to this sort of thing, and we have, for instance, permitted the aniline dye industry, which was discovered in Britain by Dr. W. H. Perkin, to slip somewhat out of our hands into German fingers; but there are signs that we are awaking to these facts, as witness Dr. Gladstone's Eeport on Science Teaching in Elementary Schools. Medicine. In Medicine, the " jubilee" of aneesthetics occurred in September, 1896, it having been on September 80th, 1846, that ether was first used for obviating pain in a surgical operation. Sir Joseph Lister (now Lord Lister), at the British Association meeting, expressed the opinion that chloroform carefully given was more safe than ether. Doctors have also been recommending the use of " incubators " for prematurely born infants. These incubators, such as Aurard s may be simply boxes, kept uniformly warm by Dottles ot hot water, or a hot water tank, damp sponges being washed with SUNLIGHT SOAP.