195 NEWSPAPERS OF THE WORLD. United States and Canada. Here we have, indeed, a perfect army of newspapers; the names alone would occupy pages. There are the "New York Times," the "New York Herald," the "New York Sun," "World," "Tribune," &c.; the "Brooklyn Eagle," the " St. Louis Globe Democrat," the " Boston Advertiser," "Eecord," "Globe," "Herald," and " Journal,"_ while the " Youth's Companion," a weekly publication, is said to circu- late nearly half-a-miilion copies weekly. One of the most curiously named papers is the Philadelphia " Evening Call." Some of the American papers have methods of setting out extraordinarily sensational headlines to their news and their articles, which, happily, are largely avoided by our more sober-minded English journalises. In Canada, tho "Toronto Globe" (morning, evening, and weekly editions), "Mail" and "World," the "Evening News," "Evening Star," and " Evening Telegraph," the "Montreal Gazette," " Herald " and " Witness " (all daily and weekly), are among the leading papers. It is significant of the fact that tho Erench language is still spoken in parts of Canada that to many journals have Erench names, thus: "Le Courier du Canada," " L'Electeur," " L'Evenement," " La Justice," &c. Among the Quebec dailies in English are the "Morcury," the " Morning Chronicle," and the " Telegraph." Continental. An enormous number of newspapers of all kinds are now issued on the •Continexit of Europe. There are more than sixty daily political papers published in Paris alone, among which may be mentioned the " Debats," the "Eigaro," the "Petit Journal," the "Gaulois," &c. In addition there are a large number of weekly papers of various kinds, while the principal provincial papers may be counted by scores. Similar remarks would apply to other-countries, even little Holland making a good show. In Eussia the censorship is still rigid. Among some of the best-known continental papers in addition to France are :—" Tagblatt" (Berlin); "Norddeutsche Allegemeine Zeitung" (German); "Neue Ercie Presse " (Vienna); " Independence Beige " (Brussels); " Eanfulla " (Eome) ; " Norvoje Wremja" (" The New Time") St. Petersburg; " OsmanischePost" (Constantinople); &c. for the sake of effectiveness. H2