STATES OF THE WORLD. 165 Ottoman Empire.—Commonly called Turkey ; Sultan, Abdul-Hamid. A vast empire with area of 1,710,000 square miles and a population of 32£ million inhabitants; but nominally many of the inhabitants do little more than acknowledge the suzerainty of the Porte. Turkey in Europe includes what was ancient Thrace, Macedon, Epirus, and EUyria. Turkey in Asia extends from the Black Sea to the Persian Gulf and Eed Sea. Armenia is a high tableland in the tipper valley of the Euphrates, Tigris, Aral, and Eur, and includes the historic mountain Ararat. Capital of the Ottoman Empire, Constantinople. Paraguay.—An inland Eepublic, bordered by the two greater South American Eepublics, Brazil andArgentina. Area, about 142,000 square miles. Capital—Asuncion. Persia.—Tha most opulent kingdom of Western Asia; known as Iran. Area 630,000 square miles ; population, about 9,000,000. Sovereign—Shah Nasir-ed-Din, E.G. Capital, Teheran • prevailing religion, Mohammedanism of the Shiah sect, but there are many Armenian Christians and Jews. Protection to British trade has been safeguarded by special treaty. Peru.—A South American Eepublic; previously the famous Empire of Peru under the Incas. Area 440,000 square miles ; capital, Lima. Portugal.—Eingdom west of Europe. The area slightly exceeds that of Ireland, and is 35,541 square miles. Attached to the kingdom of Portugal are the Azores, off Africa and Madeira. There are also extensive colonies. The reigning sovereign is Doni Carlos. Lisbon, the capital. Roumania.—A kingdom in S.E. Europe; area about 48,300 square miles ; population, about six millions. Capital, Bucharest; Eing, Charles I. of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringer since 1887. Russia.—The vastest of European empires. Including the Asiatic territory, its area is 8,658,688 square miles, more than twice that of all Europe, and is nigh a sixth of the land surface of the globe. The empire comprises 50 governments of European Eussia, 10 of Poland and Finland, the remainder is included in Asia and comprehends Caucasus, Central Asia and Siberia, having an area of nearly 5,000,000 square miles. The ruler is the Emperor Nicholas II., and the SUNLIGHT SOAP is worth its weight in gold.