THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. m< use of cod-liver oil and medicines prescribed by a medical man to suit the case. Convulsions.—Place the child in a hot bath—but not so' hot as to scald him. If the mother's elbow can be comfort- ably borne m the water the temperature is about right Orive a child a dose of castor oil and send for the doctor Colic.— Violent pain in the bowels. A teaspoonful of castor oil should clear off the cause of irritation, while the stomach may be rubbed with a warm hand, and a hot linseed poultice or hot flannel applied. The child may be placed in a hot bath m severe cases or an enema of hot water given : a teaspoonful of dill-water also gives relief. Coughs.—Usually an accompaniment of some other com- plaint, as cold, bronchitis, &c. A chest protector (made bv cutting a slit in the middle of £ yard of narrow width flannel, and passing head through slit) is an excellent preventative and cure of coughs. When the lungs are affected the back needs protection as well as the chest. A mixture of equal C f6Ver 8t.gly(ieTe an? lemon iuice taken in teaspoon- ful doses from time to time is an excellent cure for a drv hacking cough. (See also Colds, Bronchitis, frc.) 7' ™™ i°"P;TA? infl™atoiy disease of the windpipe. The complain begins with hoarseness like a cold, a cough super- W(7lth+f braf y™g™S ^und, and an attack of crowing- bieathmg threatening suffocation. The treatment must be instant. A easpoonful of Ipecacuhana wine should be given and repeated after ten minutes until the child vomits I-eelv and expels the suffocating secretion. A sponge ™g outof hot water shou d be put to the throat untS a hot baTh can be made ready and a linseed poultice can be obtained^ A volume of steam may be raised near the child bv holdW T ^ ll?Xt^T ^ Rf dr°Pping a ^ Pail ol Eo „ ?i j suffocation seems imminent a bougie mav be gently and carefully put down the throat. SenTLthl doctor at once. Croup rarely occurs after the fifth year oi po?Un?h TakT^nf^^T^r the lacl ^-ismostir^ Why not get SUNLIGHTSOAP-the Belt?