FINE ARTS. 20$ dark and weird tower. The angry sunset depicted here is a very fine piece of work. Mr. David Murray, A.E.A., in some fine pictures from Hampstead. Heath, showed the ordinary wearied Londoner what beauties may lurk in the scenery at his door, while in another picture he takes us north of the Tweed, and shows us a reach of the Dee in early winter. Mr. Alfred Parsons, exhibiting for the first time as a member, depicted a beauteous Cumberland landscape, which offers opportunity for some fine colouring. Mr. Solomon, A.E.A., has finished his large picture for the decoration of the Eoyal Exchange, London, viz., the historical " Visit of Charles I. to the City in search of the Five Members," and in the Academy he exhibited a mediaeval scene, circular in shape, in which a knight is beheld riding up for his reward after unhorsing his adversary, and is baffled in obtaining it. A portrait of " Miss Donaldson," by Mr. Oolin Hunter, A.E.A. besides three pictures of Helmsdale from the far north, and Mr. Shannon's portrait of Mr. Clare Sewell Head, •which is for the Norwich Town" Hall, have been among the fine portraits of the year. Another portrait, by Mr. Shannon, viz:, " Monsignor Nugent," painted for the Walker Art Gallery, Liverpool, is also' memorable, and showed Mr. Shannon as an excellent colourist. Another portrait is that of Sir John Hibbert, another is Mrs. Buxton, and yet another is that of Lady Granby. Mr. Melton Fisher has found many admirers for his bright and gay " Children's Picnic." Among others are* Mr. Draper's "Calypso's Isle," and Mr. Collier's " Gwenever's Maying" (from" Sir Thomas Mallory's Chronicle), while Mr. Collier scored perhaps an even greator success with his picture of the " Game of "Whist" 'f the attitudes and faces are so expressive that you can almost tell the card each has to play. Mr. Peter Graham, E.A., has added two mora fine sea pictures from the "north countrie" to his noble list, and Mr. Farquharson has painted a flock of sheep in a Scotch snowstorm among the hills so exceedingly well that you feel almost transported to the scene when you look at it. _ Most people no doubt would agree that one of the attrac- tions of the 1897 Academy was Mr. Boughton's " Christmas Eve Four Hundred Years Ago." The midnight sexier has 27 Gold Medals and other Awards,