236 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Ottawa, 1893. by year into Parliament for the compulsory registration of architects after the fashion of the medical and legal profes- sions. Hitherto it has met with scant chance of passing into law, and certain conferences held in various parts of the country, in 1896, under the auspices of its promoters, were unproductive of any new arguments in favour of the Bill. The Bill is strongly opposed by the Boyal Institute of British Architects, and other professional bodies. The death of Mr. George Gilbert Scott, F.S.A., the eldest son of the late Sir George Gilbert Scott, the eminent architect, on the 6th of May, 1897, removed from our midst an ecclesias- tical architect of the very first rank. Indeed nothing finer in the way of modern church design is to be found in England, than Mr. Scott's, church at Norwich, for the Duke of Norfolk. He had retired from actual practice some three or four years before his death. The death of Lord Leighton, the gifted President of the Boyal Academy, was an event which concerned architecture, in that he was an Hon. Pellow of the Boyal Institute of British Architects, and had received the Institute's highest honour, viz.:— the Boyal Gold Medal. Several of his latest addresses to the Eoyal Academy students dealt particularly with certain periods of continental architecture. Then the death of Mr. W. H. White, for eighteen years the able and energetic secretary of the Institute of British Architects, was a distinct loss to the profession no less than to the Institute. Mr. William Morris, too, who has also passed over to the majority, was more or less intimately associated with the decorative arts appertaining to architecture. A notable addition to the public buildings of -London is the British Art Gallery, built on the old MiUbank Prison site. It is to house the splendid collection of modern pictures by British artists given to the nation by Mr. Henry Tate. The cost of the buildings, which have been designed by Mr. Sidney E. J. Smith, F.E.I.B.A., will be something like £100,000, and the value of the pictures is set down at something like £75,000. One of the most important building projects of 1897 is that of the proposed new Government Offices, in Whitehall, which has formed the subject of consideration by a Special Parliamentary Com- mittee. The question of site has proved a debatablejme,