"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP CYCLING.—In many ways 1896 has been marked one of the most important periods through -which the sport has passed. For one thing the " unlicensed amateur " became a creature of the past, chang- ing into an avowed professional now that he saw money to be made in the new departure. Then too, nearly every amateur good enough was induoed to turn professional, and to ride in the interests of one or another of the big cycle and tire companies. Naturally, under such conditions, and with every assistance that can be supplied in the way of skilfully controlled pacing by multicycles, records are being made and beaten almost daily; while amateur racing, though undoubtedly purer than before, has necessarily deteriorated in quality. In the circumstances, we shall content ourselves with giving a few of the more notable performances of 1896-7 and a selection of the most interesting records. But quite apart from the racing cyclists and those interested in their doings, the machine has achieved an almost inconceivable popularity among people who use it feolely as a means of healthful exercise, and for touring from place to place. To these, probably the most numerous section of riders, we trust that the accompanying specially prepared maps will prove of service. On May 30th, 1896, the First Portion of the N.C.U. Championships took place at the Wood Green track, the times of the various races being very slow, since pacing was not permitted. The One Mile Amateur Championship was won by P. W. Brown (Polytechnic CO) in 3 min. 23 sec, while M. Diakoff, a Eussian member of the Catford C.C. secured the 25 miles Amateur Championship in 1 hr. 5 min. 15 sec. Five Miles Professional Championship falling to J. Green (of North- umberland). On June 6th a series of professional races took place at Catford, ostensibly to decide the comparative merits of the Simpson Lever Chain and the one invented by McCabe. The former won two out of the three events decided. C. F. Barden, (McCabe) beat J Michael (Simpson) in the 5 mile race in 10 min. 40£ sec. T. Lintoi (Simpson) beat J.W. Stocks in the One Hour race, doing 29 miles 643 yds. in the time. The 50 miles race was won by C. Huret (Simpson"), who beat A. A. Chase (McCabe), and made (then) world's record from 32 miles onwards, covering the full distance in 1 hr. 42 min. 42 1-5 sec. The Second Portion of the N.C.U. Championships was decided at Newport (Mon.) on June 20th, a high wind materially affecting the times. A. Macferson, of Blackpool, won the Quarter Mile Amateur Champion- ship in 33* sec, M. Diakoff adding the Five Miles Amateur Cham- pionship (14 min. 561 sec) to his previous success. The Professional Mile Championship was secured by C. F Barden in 2 mm. 30$ sec., while J. Green (Northumberland) emulated Diakoff by winning the Professional Quarter Mile in 334 sec. Finally, later m the year, W. H. Bardsley won the 50 Miles Amateur Championship in 1 hi. 57 min. 28| sec. The International 'Varsity Match, which took place at Wood Green on June 26th, resulted in an easy win for Cambridge which scored most points in each of the three races (1, 4, and 10 milep). The Century Cop (amateurs) was won by B. Palmer (Silverdale