352 SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP neckband, and lastly, the fronts. A small ironing board that: goes under the fronts is a great help in ironing shirt fronts: properly; they must be perfectly smooth and glossy, and; should be finished off with a polishing iron (a specially made; heavy flat iron rounded at the bottom and very bright). It: must be rubbed and pressed firmly on the linen, using as-: much force as possible, which gives a beautiful finish to the? surface. Proper stiffness cannot be obtained without a veryi hot iron, but it must always be tried first on a piece of old; linen, for fear of scorching. Always iron cuffs and collars,, after rubbing well all over, to free from loose starch and. creases, on the wrong side first, then on the right. They? must not be too dry before they are ironed. If creases form: in ironing, they are made worse by trying to iron them into, the linen; rub them out, if possible, by damping the places slightly, and smoothing out the crease. Starched things,, especially shirts, collars, and cuffs, should be dried welL before a hot fire after ironing. They will then be much, stiff er. Muslin, Laces and Fine Things.—Muslin, laces, and', fine things, should be ironed on the wrong side, the way oil the selvage, and should be damped by sprinkling witbn clean water beforehand, and a cloth should cover them, over which the iron is passed. Prints (except black or navyr blue) should be ironed on the right side to make them, glossy. Flannels must never be ironed with a very hot irom or they will shrink, and they must be ironed on the wrong* side before they are quite dry. To Remove a Scorch from Linen. — Chop up two? onions and squeeze the juice out by wringing in a cloth,, ct in a lemon squeezer, add this to half a pint oL vinegar, half an ounce of Sunlight Soap, and two ounces of fuller's earth, boil this till thoroughly mixed. Keej in a covered jar. Spread some on the scorched article with a knife, let it dry on, then wash off and the scorch vanishes. Mangling.—Sheets, body Hnen, etc., must be quite damp before they are mangled, and should be placed quite smooth between the roUers. If possible, one person should hold and.