"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 238 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Ghent, 1889. passed by Parliament for the erection of a grand Connty Hall in Trafalgar Square. But neither the site nor the estimated cost of the scheme commended themselves to the House of Commons majority, and the scheme was rejected. The proposed new thoroughfare from Holborn to the Strand, with its contingent architectural possibilities, also remained a paper scheme. The houses which have so long blocked up one of the best exterior views of Westminster Abbey have been removed— except Mr. Labouchere's—and now the public are able to properly view—and appreciate if they can—the exterior of the Chapter House and the flank of Henry VII. 's Chapel. The buildings for the Paris Exhibition of 1900 formed the subject of an important competition amongst French archi- tects in 1896. Some 60 designs were actually sent in, and in the result the work was divided up amongst the authors of the designs placed 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th respectively, whilst the general oversight of the whole work was placed in the hands of M. GirauLt. A competition for a foreign building of international im- portance, in which English architects took part, was that for the new Museum of Egyptian Antiquities. The work fell, however, to a Prench architect, M. Dourgnon, and the founda- tion stone of the new structure was laid in the spring of 1897. A notable addition to the already large number of huge hotels in London has been the Hotel Cecil, whilst one of the most recent, and in point of general convenience and comfort, about the best addition to London theatres has been Her Majesty's, in the Haymarket, built for Mr. Eeerbohm Tree, from designs by Mr. Phipps, P.S.A. But of the archi- tectural qualities of these buildings the less said the better. The question of the best way of commemorating the Queen's long reign in some permanent form in London called forth a variety of suggestions, all more or less of a utilitarian character. But the hospital project seems to have put most other ideas of a national memorial into the shade. Still, the suggestion of an architectural journal that we might have an artistic memorial of the Queen and her reign, purely as a work of art, in architecture and sculpture, and as a monu- ment only, without considering its practical use, was an excellent one that might well have bean carried out.