3*7 THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. sudden suppression of perspiration, #s by wet clothes when the body is heated, may induce an attack. Sweets, acids, beer, and much meat should be avoided—rheumatism is often cured simply by refraining from beer. Pure glycerine, such as Lever's, may be used for sweetening instead of sugar. The patient must remain in bed and be dieted on gruel, milk and water, barley water, &c, while hot fomentations may be applied. Flannel underclothing should be worn night and day; and the affected parts may be rubbed with chloroform liniment, mustard oil, methylated spirit, or paraffin oil. Warm baths may also be taken with advantage. Ringworm and Shingles.—Kings or patches of small vesicles which appear on the head and itch considerably. "Ringworm" on the waist, appearing in clusters of inflamed patches, and circling the body like a belt, is called shingles. Ringworm is very infectious, and the child suffering from it ishould be strictly kept from others. Dissolve a piece of washing soda, the size of your fist, in j ust sufficient water to melt it; .cut the hair away from the affected part, and dab on the soda two or three times a day, taking care it does not trickle down. Keep a cap on the head. The patient should have plenty of wholesome, nourishing food, cod.-liver oil, and sea air if possible. Tobacco-water and ink should never be used. Absolute cleanliness is essential, and the patient's towels, brush and comb, &c, should never be used by others. Plenty of Lifebuoy Soap may be used to guard against infection. Scarlet Fever.—Sometimes an attack begins with sick- ness (vomiting); there is shivering, sore throat, feverishness, hot, dry skin, and headache; an eruption appears on the skin like scarlet dots closely set, "but is not raised on the skin (see Measles); this rash affects the body more than the face. The eruption is at its height usually on the fourth or fifth day, and the throat trouble is then generally at its worst. Hot linseed poultices may be applied to the throat, and ice given to the patient to suck at the same time. The skin may be anointed with Eucalyptus oil to allay the great irritation, and help to prevent the spread of infection. Good ventilation of the bedroom in infectious illness is most essential, especially so in the case of scarlet fever and diphtheria. The patient SUNLIGHT SOAP, largest sale in the world. 0