STRENGTH OF TIMBER AND CAST IRON. 24? THE COMPARATIVE STRENGTH OF TIMBER AND CAST IRON. Ik regard to Cast Iron, experiments by eminent engineers Lave shown the average ultimate strength of the usual kinds of cast-iron to be:—Torsion (or pulling), 6 tons per square inch of section; shearing, 8£ tons; transverse (or bending) 13£ tons; and compression (or thrusting), 38 tons. Torsion, or twisting, stress does not occur in buildings. The surface of cast iron is more compact, stronger and harder than the interior, and the larger the casting the greater is this difference, and consequently the smaller the pro- portionate average strength. Cast iron is very slightly elastic. It does not rust so rapidly in moist air as either wrought iron or steel, and the thicker the casting, the slower the rate of corrosion. Cast iron offers great resistance to compression, and is specially suitable for those portions of structures bearing only steady compressive strains. Timber is considerably affected by age and moisture, and practical testing is of even more importance for timber than in the case of cast iron, as the variations of strength are greater in apparently similar samples. It has also to be borne in mind that dry timber is more than double the strength of wet. The resistance of timber to crushing across the fibres is less than in the direction of their length, whilst of resistance to shearing exactly the opposite is the case. Birch, Dantzic fir, pitch pine, mahogany, poplar, sycamore, willow, and American oak offer resistance to crushing in the direction of the fibres varying from 1 to 3 tons per square inch, or much less than one-twelfth that of cast iron. English oak, ash, elm, teak, beech, and hornbeam show a resistance of from 3 to 4 tons. It may be calculated that the strength of a piece of timber, fixed at both ends, and loaded in the middle, is to that of a like piece only supported at both ends and loaded in the middle as 3 to 2. The average cast iron, according to Rankine'stables, shows a tenacity, or resistance of tearing, of 16,500 lbs. avoirdu- pois per square inch, whilst oak offers a similar resistance to the extent of 17,000 lbs.; beech, 11,500 ; birch, 15,000 ; elm (average) 14,000 ; red pine fir, 13,000 ; spruce fir, 12,400 ; for the sake of convenience.