348 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. bean, has been added. Dry quickly in a breeze, but not in the BUn."—Bessie Tremaine.—From The Queen, September 6, 1890. For Washing Cambric Handkerchiefs.—"Put the fine handkerchiefs into tepid water, and well soap them with Sunlight Soap ; let them stand an hour or two, then trans- fer them to a pan of boiling water, to every gallon of which has been added an ounce of the above soap, shred fine, and a very small teaspoonful of pure paraffin. Let them boil in this for twenty minutes, take up and rinse through clear cold water, and again in water slightly blued. Pass through an indiarubber wringer, or squeeze the water out—on no account twist the handkerchiefs in wringing—then spread smoothly between the folds of a towel and roll up tightly. They will be dry enough to iron in a few hours. This must be done with an iron only moderately hot, or it will discolour the cam- bric " Bessie Tremaine.—From The Queen, April 26, 1890. To Wash White Silk Handkerchiefs.—" Prepare a lather of Sunlight Soap, in which soak the handkerchiefs tor a quarter of an hour. Then rub them gently m the lather ; have near by a tub of pure, clear water, into wnich throw them as they are washed; squeeze each out and give a gentle shake, then put into water that has had the slightest suspicion of blue dissolved in it. Again squeeze out, and shake each one separately. Hang out in the open air tor a short time to partly dry them and give them a freshness, then fold. eachl m half/selvage to selvage and roll up m a cle<m cloth Put on an ironf and by the time it hot the handk be readv to press. Iron thex, selvageways, and they should then look hke new."-Illustrated Dressmaker for: JUHandkerchiefs.-In washing handkerchiefs it is a goodi plan(if ftS^WeaBant to wash) to sprinkle +hem with S after soaki , £ to soak them in goaty water Handkorckiof* should be washed y themselves. H hey haveTeen used head they ought to be washed with Lipzbuoy Soap, because thfs is a disinfectant. Colds in the head are said to be in ectTous. Handkerchiefs used by children with whoopmg cough or measles, should also be washed with Lipebuo.^ap,, ar/afterwards boUe^JfcuaJheui^^ "IrtJNLIGH^SOAP, Gold Medal, Kimberley, 1892.