THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. 26g painful it may perhaps be dispersed by applying tincture of iodine. But as a rule it is well to foment and poultice the part as directed and so bring out the bad matter from the system. The abscess should be allowed to discharge itself and not be pushed or pressed with the finger. People should liveon pure and wholesome food, practise great cleanliness in person and dress, using plenty of Sunlight and Lifebuoy Soap, avoid all inflammatory drinks and exhausting excesses, and they would in all probability never suffer from these painful sores. The patient should be careful to live well, but on plain, nutritious and digestible diet. Ague.—Abo called intermittent fever, as the attacks recur in paroxysms. Each attack has three stages: (1) the cold fit with chilliness of the body, aching of the limbs and chattering of the teeth ; (2) the hot fit, accompanied by thirst, headache, hot flushings, and high pulse, followed by (3) the perspiration stage, when gradually the patient feels relieved. Each stage lasts about two hours. Further there are three types of ague, the quotidian, when the patient suffers a paroxysm daily; the tertian, when a patient suffers every other day, this is the most frequent type; and the quartan, in which the attack comes on every fourth day. Causes; Marsh malaria, living on low and marshy ground, &c. Eemedies; Warm baths, °and warm non-alcoholic drinks, such as barley-water, &c, also, m the hot stage, saline draughts are beneficial; but the specific remedy is sulphate of quinine, 2 to 5 grains being a dose and taken perhaps three times at intervals between the attacks. Anaemia.—Poorness of blood. Sometimes occurs alone, but is often one of the symptoms of other complaints. Young women poorly nourished suffer most from this evil, and often exhibit great pallor of face and lips, with a wax-like com- plexion. Palpitation of the heart arises, the appetite is poor, and the patient suffers much difficulty in doing her work. Tonics such as quinine and iron are useful, and the patient should take plenty of wholesome and nourishing digestible food, not omitting fat, and exercise in the fresh aiS ine dialysed iron is a good form of taking that medicine, as it does not constipate the bowels. Cod-liver oil and iron also lorm an excellent remedy. The cheapest is the cod-liver oil irom a fishmonger's, while tincture of perchloride of iron may with less labour, greater comfort.