SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Edinburgh, 1890. ** For years back," says Dr. George Wilson, " the prisons of this country have been proved by the most rigid statistics to be far healthier than our homes, and so-called preventable disease of any kind is so rare within their walls, that when isolated cases do appear they at once give rise to surprise and are sure to call for enquiry." Why should this be ? Why should our prisons be so much healthier than our homes ? Why should the death rate in the free cottage be 20 per cent, and the sick rate nearly 100 per cent, higher than in the captive's cell? Because, in the prisons of to-day the great scientific fact is recognized, that all infectious diseases are propagated by living seeds or germs, and therefore means are taken to prevent their propagation. The practical question for us all then is, " How shall we pre- vent infectious diseases from entering our homes ? " The answer is, " By destroying the seeds of infection." « But how can this be done as the seed is invisible ? " The answer to this is fortunately simple. 1. By boiling. 2. By burning. 3. By using LIFEBUOY SOAP. Thorough boiling or burning will destroy every kind of disease germs, but we cannot obviously always employ such means. We cannot boil our hands or bodies, on which the germs may lurk unseen if we have been near sick people. If we are not rich we cannot burn everything in the room where measles or whooping cough is nursed. " What are we to do then ? " Why, we can destroy it in another way wnicu is simple, cheap, and sure — "By the use of Lifebuoy Soap." How will this do it ? " Because this SOAP is so strongly impregnated with a potent disinfectant (i.e., killer of infection) that its use will ensure the utter destruction of all germs of disease, which, because unseen, are often unsuspected until they have produced their deadly fruit. v™.^ Where there are dirty boards, filthy sinks, musty cupboards, foul smells, there disease is surely germinating and will thrive. One bar of LIFEBUOY SOAP will stop this deadly work It will not only remove the seeds of sickness which thrive in dirt, but it will destroy them. If merely removedthey wiU undoubtedly spring up somewhere else, but once LI FEBUOY SOAP has been applied, all lurking disease germs, not only those o i infectious disease, but the germs of putrefaction which pro- duce Sres and skin diseases, mould and decay, are killed, and therefore can never again produce disease.