3i8 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. Salt and pepper to taste, also add such herbs as desired to flavour. Oxtails should be cut into joints and fried before simmering in the stock. Purely Vegetable Soups ; Purees —Chop up the vege- tables and simmer gently in water; then after half an hour, If desired, add cabbage, which must have been previously partially boiled ; then, after about a quarter of an hour, add tomatoes if desired and sweet herbs, and boil up for nearly half an hour. Mash through sieve, and add a little butter and milk (thickened with flour as directed for cabbage soup, if desired), and boil a minute. In a somewhat similar manner purees of separate vegetables, as of tomatoes, may be made, II.—Boasting. General Rule.—Meat should be put into a very hot oven, Or before a strong fire for the first ten or fifteen minutes, then the oven should be cooled a little or the joint drawn further from the fire for the rest of the cooking, in order to preserve the juice in the joint. Average Time required for Roasting.—Fifteen minutes to the pound, and add fifteen or twenty minutes to the entire time required for cooking the joint. Veal and pork always require twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over to the entire time. These meats must be done through to the lone. Fowl require plenty of basting. Economical Leg of Mutton.-A large leg is more economical than a small one. Have it neat y cut m two Take out bone from thick end, fill space with stuffing made of bread scraps wrung out of cold water, and mixed with chopped dripping, pepper, salt, parsley, herbs, and a little shred lemon peel? b££ up tightly, cover with greased paper, and bake; or fiU with mashed chestnuts or mashed potatoes and onion as for a goose. The knuckle end, boiled with caper or parsley sauce, will make another day's dinner. Savoury Mock Steak made without Meat.-Take.one pint of dried haricot beans soaked for 24 hours in cold water Q till tender (two or three hours). Put some dripping and tSo sliced onions in a frying pan and fry a golden brown add beans, with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley fiy for ten minutes, drain off dripping, and arrange in neat form on a hot dish. . . See smiling faces all around