r% * SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. Novels and Stouies. Fiction, however, still holds the highest place for abundance and popularity. Everybody nowadays reads "stories," as -perhaps everybody always did—when stories could be got to read. The reason is not far to seek: writers and readers both recognise the value of Tennyson's line that fiction so called— is often " Truth embodied in a tale." Olive Schreiner doubt- less endeavoured to do this in her novel, or rather sketch, " Trooper Peter Halkett," which she published in the early part of 1897. In it she strove to impeach Mr. Ehodes and .the Chartered Company and the action of British troopers in Ehodesia. On the other hand, however, in Ella MacMahon's story—" The Touchstone of Life "—Mr. Ehodes is represented •as the great pioneer of new lands and the creator of new empires. , Mrs. Humphry "Ward has endeavoured to deal witn some of the Socialist problems in her " Sir George Tressady." Mr. Du Maurier, whose death, alas, we mourn, has followed his amazingly successful " Trilby_" with "Martian," and Mr. Eudyard Kipling has left India m his new work, " Slaves of the Lamp." In his " Child of the Jago " Mr. Arthur Morrison shows an improvement on his " Tales of Mean Streets," and in his strong and vivid depic- tion of scenes in slumdom is almost without a rival. Mr. Anthony Hope has been better than ever in his Comedies of Courtship,'' and m his " Heart of Princess Osra," he is stiR very successful, though in a different style; while a third from his pen has been the curiously named "Phroso." One of the most popular of books, however, has been Mr. J. M. Barrie's "SentimentalTommy" —a story which has enjoyed enormous vogue. He followed it up with another volume entitled "Margaret Ogilvy/ which was in fact a biography of Ins mother. Mr. Harold Frederic's "Illu- mination " has also been exceedingly popular and has greatly advanced Ins reputation ; while Mrs. Hodgson Bur- ™m-'q "T.ndv nf Qualitv" has likewise MB. J. M. BAJRRIE. nett's "Lady of Quality enjoyed much vogue. SUNLIGHT SOAP