"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. "When did you ever ask me anything that I did not tell you? You remember, for example, my giving you the material for your paper about the temple of the Vestals." " Ah well, thai> was not a matter of much importance. If I were to question you upon some intimate thing would you give me an answer, I wonder ! This new catacomb is a very intimate thing to me, and I should certainly expect Some sign of confidence in return." "What you are driving at I cannot imagine," said the Englishman, " but if you mean that you will answer my question about the catacomb if I answer any question which you may put to me I can assure you that I will certainly do so." " Well, then," said Burger, leaning luxuriously back in his settee, and puffing a blue tree of cigar smoke into the air, " tell me all about your relations with Miss Mary |3aunderson." Kennedy sprang up in his chair and glared angrily at his impassive companion. " What the devil do you mean ?" he cried. " What sort of a question is this ? You may mean it as a joke, but you never made a worse one." " No, I don't mean it as a joke," said Burger, simply, " I am really rather interested in the details of the matter. I don't know much about the world and women and social life and that sort of thing, and such an incident has the fascination of the unknown for me. I know you, and I knew her by sight—I had even spoken to her once or twice. I should very much like to hear from your own lips exactly what it was which occurred between you." " I won't tell you a word." " That's all right. It was only my whim to see if you would give up a secret as easily as you expected me to give up my secret of the new catacomb. You wouldn't, and 1 didn't expect you to. But why should you expect other- wise of me ? There's Saint John's clock striking ten. It is quite time that I was going home." "No, wait a bit, Burger," said Kennedy; this is really a ridiculous caprice of yours to wish to know about Don't worry! Use SUNLIGHT SOAP.