295 DOMESTIC ECONOMY. SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Lyons, 1894. —and the battle is won. She will soon find out by experience What to do, and what to avoid. Now, the term Domestic Economy is a very large one. 3 really embraces food and cooking, clothing and washing, and the warming, ventilating, and cleaning of the dwelling. Several of these things are treated more fully under separate headings. Tinned Meat or Frozen Meat may be purchased instead cf fresh butcher's meat, but discrimination should be used. There is great difference in these foreign meats; some are undoubtedly very insipid, coarse and stringy; other brands again are tasty, juicy, and nourishing. Do not despise foreign meat because it is foreign ; with care in cooking—the great point being in frozen meat to see that it is thoroughly thawed before roasting—it forms an appetising and nourishing food. Butter.—When butter is very dear, good meat-dripping may be used in its stead. Good dripping, in fact, is much better than bad butter, and with a trifle of salt sprinkled over it when spread on the bread, most children will eat it gladly. It is very^useful as a heat-giver to the body, being, in fact, wholei^m^food. Cheese is, undoubtedly,good food; but the stomach cannot digest too much at a time, especially if the eater be not working in the open air. Hassell states that not more than one ounce should be eaten at a meal. It is said that cheese helps to digest other foods; if so, a small quantity will answer the purpose as well as a large one. Old cheese is not such good food as fairly new cheese, say six months old or so. When very new, cheese is indigestible. "We doubt if it should be eaten before it is six months old. Cheese varies much in price, but if it is over ninepence a pound, it is questionable if it can be called economical. Eggs aho are good food, but when boiled hard, the white is indigestible. They should be lightly cooked. Perhaps they are most digestible when beaten up in a cup of freshly- made good tea. Even a stale egg—not too stale, may be taken in this way. A cup of tea thus fortified is very good for persons in a weakly state of health, and may be taken with a slice or two of bread and butter. As to the economy