« SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. THE TIME ALL OVER THE WORLD. Time is based upon the daily rotation of the earth upon its axis in the presence of the sun, and 12 o'clock, noon, means the highest point at which the sun appears in the heavens. The further east you go, the earlier the sun rises above the horizon and the earlier it sets. As it is perplexing to have variations of time in the same or even adjacent countries, many are nbw adopting standard time, by which is meant time varying from Greenwich by whole hours. Thus Belgium and Holland use Greenwich time, and are called the Western European zone. Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Servia, Bosnia, Sweden and Denmark, are said to be in the central zone, and calculate their time one hour in advance of (i.e., later in the day), Greenwich. In France, however, the legal hour is "Paris time," which is about nine minlites later than Greenwich time. Eastern Europe—Russia, Eoumania, Bulgaria, and Rounielia— are in the eastern zone, and the standard time is two hours in advance of (i.e., later in the day), that at Greenwich. The United States and Canada also calculate their time from Greenwich, and the vast continent of North America is divided into five zones: Halifax, Nova Scotia, is in the four hours zone, its time being four hours different from that of Greenwich ; thus, twelve o'clock in London is eight o'clock in the morning at Halifax. New York and Montreal, again, are in the five hours zone, their time being five hours west of Greenwich ; twelve o'clock in London is seven o'clock in the morning at New York; Chicago is six hours west, and San Francisco eight hours west. Going east the reverse is the case, and when the time is noon at Greenwich it is about a quarter to eight in the evening at Pekin, seven minutes to six at Calc utta, twenty minutes to ten at Melbourne, five minutes pxist ten at Sydney, and about twenty minutes to twelve p-m. at Auck- land, New Zealand; and fourteen minutes past one at Cape Town. In short, by the supporters of " Standard Time " the globe is divided into zones of fifteen degrees, or one hour each, Greenwich being the centre of the zero zone, and time counting one hour later in the day than Greenwich as we go east, and one hour earlier in the day as we go west. Sec smiling faces all around. »