THE CINEMATOGRAPH. 2ig THE CINEMATOGRAPH, OR LIVING PICTURES. This ingenious and pleasing exhibition has become very popular. The method of working it, though at first sight almost incomprehensible, yet becomes fairly clear on exami- nation. Most persons are familiar with the toy known as the Zoe trope, or wheel of life, in which several pictures of a figure in different positions are presented to the eye as one moving figure; the Cinematograph is in essence a variation and an enlargement of this idea. The Zoetrope is a hollow cylinder something like a very large cup, with straight sides, containing a number of pictures inside, showing, for instance, a boy jumping over a brook, each picture showing his successive movements in the act of jumping; the upper part of the side of the cylinder is pierced with slits, and as the instrument is set revolving, on a pivot fixed to the bottom, the figures appear to blend into one—but moving—as the beholder looks through the slits, which also appear to1 blend. The result is that you appear to see the boy actually move over the brook in the act of jumping. The set of pictures can of course be removed from the instrument and another set inserted. Edison improved this toy by substitu- ting photographs for pictures and called the instrument the Kinetoscope, and then Monsieur Lumiere, of Lyons, enlarged 1 the idea by throwing the photographs of the Kinetoscope on a screen by an optical lantern. The instantaneous photographs of say the successive movements of a horse race are thus thrown on the screen so quickly that they blend before the eyesight, and thus produce the effect of a living picture. In fact one photograph has not left the eyesight before the next in succession flashes after it. Hence the term Living Picture. A French gentleman named Cordy is said to have taken a set of photographs of growing flowers at different stages of development, and flashing them thus quickly on the screen, shows you a plant growing and budding and flowering in a moment or so. This living picture, though no doubt interesting, must, however, be likely to have an unnatural effect, for in nature we do not see plants budding and flowering in a minute; but scenes like boat races, an animated street, and so on, seem to produce better results, SUNLIGHT SOAP, largest sale in the world.