SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 460 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Kimberley, 1892. These bands are always gliding noiselessly along, and, as tliey pass, the workers pile on them the finished boxes, which are then carried on to the department where other hands are deftly wrapping up the completed tablets of soap. By means of this ingenious and automatic little tramway, much time and labour is saved, In the joiners' shop and wood box-making factories, to which our next move is made, the value of the principle of the division of labour is again seen. The wood comes into the department in pieces, long strips for tops, bottoms and sides, short pieces for ends. These are applied to the machines by lads with the most astonishing dexterity. Each machine drives in seven nails at a blow, the nails being fed by magnets. Before one has time almost to see what is being done, the box is finished and thrown aside. The effect is magical, but very practical, for 16,000 of these boxes can be produced in a day ! The engine-house is a "fearful and wonderful" depart- ment, and bewildering to the mind unfamiliar with machinery. It is the great heart of the factory, as it were, with its huge and fearsome wheel, which distributes "motive power" to the distant limb of steel and iron as the heart distributes blood to the furthest members of the body. It has its beauty, too, as well as its strength; the black-and-white mosaic of the floor is a graceful touch that relieves the sombreness of the vast engines. We can but glance at the timber stores, where wood, chiefly from Norway, lies stacked in symmetrical piles; at the great wharf, and the docks, where steamers lie to carry the Sunlight merchandise to the uttermost parts of the earth; at the huge cotton-seed warehouse, and the red- painted circular oil tanks, which look like the great gas-holders one sees at a gasworks; and at the warehouse, where the stacks of soap bars vould suggest soap enough to wash the nation for a score of years. Then we turn to the Tower which surmounts the factory proper, where the soap itself is actually made. We mount several flights of steps and come out on a belvedere, from which a prospect greets us that made it worth the labour of climbing so many steps. "We see, spread out beneath us, the whole of Port Sunlight. Ib one hundred and seventy-three and a half acres lie at our feet, bathed in the glowing