ISO* "SUNLIGHT1' YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP is made in a twin bar NOTES ON GOOD BREEDING. The essence of good breeding is, after all, to do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Thus, for instance, in Beginning an Acquaintance if a new-comer appear in your neighbourhood, it is only natural and right that the residents should call first upon him, or her, to give, as it were, a welcome. Then if the acquaintance be desired, first calls should be returned within the week, or ten days at most— unless some important reason, such as illness, prevent. If long delay elapse before the first call is returned—except for any special reason—it appears to indicate a disinclination for the acquaintance. But further, when persons have been called upon, but do not desire the acquaintance of those who have called, it is customary to simply leave a card in return for the call, without even asking if the lady of the house be at home. A lady also should leave her husband's card in the hall when visiting new acquaintances. On the other hand, if it be desired to pursue and increase the acquaintance, the first calls should be followed up by an invitation to a meal, or it may be to a dance, or evening party, or some entertainment at home, the new-comers receiving the offers of hospitality. Visiting, Introductions, &c—If kindliness and good- will are really the essential features of etiquette, mere formal or affected politeness soon palls, and it is doubtless this affectation that has brought mere " society rules " into some- thing like contempt with some people. Nevertheless, while a code of rules is certainly not needed for living with loved relations or well-tried friends—for here the heart dictates- yet with others, some idea of what is right and proper is of great assistance, for, as the old proverb has it, " Manners maketh man," and, of course, woman too. In Introductions, the gentleman should always be intro- duced to the lady, thus, " May I introduce [or, allow me to introduce] Mr. White to you, Miss Brown ?' Again the so-caUed "inferior" is introduced to the "superior in position, thus : " Allow me to introduce Mrs. Brown to you, Lady Smith." Be careful to pronounce the names clearly, so that each can hear the other name distinctly. If a person is