The Science of Cleaning. • TTNFOETUNATELY the improvement in soap manufacture vJ has mainly related to toilet soaps. These are sold at fancy prices and are consequently out of reach of the great ma jority of soap users, who have hitherto had to content themselves with more or less adulterated soaps. This need no longer be the case. The SUNLIGHT SOAP is the most successful attempt which has been made to supply an absolutely pure soap which is a splendid detergent, and yet can be manufactured to sell at a price which brings it within the reach of all. In the first place it will be well to determine the qualities which ate essential for a good soap. The most obvious necessity is that it should be a powerful detergent, for a soap that will not cleanse is a contradiction in terms. The second essential for a good soap is that, without losing its detergent qualities, it shall be wholly innocuous. Thirdly, it is necessary that the ideal soap should wash and lather freely in the hardest spring water as well as in the softest rain water. Otherwise, at many seasons, and in many places, it would be absolutely useless. The fourth and last essential is, that the soap should remove dirt -without the necessity for much rubbing. If this is not the case, then no matter how innocuous the ingredients of the soap may be in themselves, the constant rubbing entailed by the want of SUNLIGHT SOAP qualities will cause the clothes to wear out ten times as fast as they should do. To sum up, then, the ideal soap should be a powerful deter- gent, it should be absolutely innocuous to the most tenr?er"$kin, the lightest washable fabric, or the most delicate colour; it should wash equally well in every sort of water, and it should wash with little labour. The qualities required in an ideal soap are fortunately to be found in a real soap, and that is the SUN= LIGHT SOAP. This is a fancy name adopted by the manu- facturers to designate this special soap, and we think it is a particularly happy one, for by the use of this soap half tho labour and fatigue entailed by the old-fashioned soaps are avoided, and washing is rendered no longer a pain, but a pleasure. wherever SUNLIGHT SOAP is found.