242 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP ing results in our English churches are where the massive Norman work is in keen contrast to the elegance and richness of the Perpendicular style. Few English cathedrals are fully satisfactory in their entire effect, either as to exterior or interior, and they are, as a rule, especially deficient in the design of their western frontages. Foreign cathedrals, on the other hand, are in general very highly distinguished by this portion of their designs. The towers and spires and lanterns are, how- ever, features which often seem to atone for defects in other parts of the English churches. The spires of Norwich, Salis- bury, and Lichfield, and the towers of York, Durham, Peter- borough, Worcester, and Gloucester are features by which we distinguish and remember the churches to which they belong. It is difficult to imagine a more striking or pleasing architectural composition than a great church like that of Durham, piled up with its three towers high above the river bed, or the Cathe- dral of Worcester, with its central tower and immense length of roof running east and west, flanked by pinnacles, and the whole dominating the city above the river bank. The most interesting cathedrals in England are York, Winchester, Lincoln, Hereford, Norwich, Canterbury, Wells, and Exeter. One striking exception to the great mass of Gothic cathe- drals is St. Paul's Cathedral, which was built by Sir Christopher Wren in Eoman Classic. It has been at once immensely admired and considerably abused. One cannot deny it certain elements of dignity and beauty. The dome, with its peristyle, is very pleasingly proportioned, and the general mass of the building is grouped up finely. Perhaps the interior may be considered the most generally satisfactory part; it certainly conveys an idea of its great size to the mmd in a way which the bigger church of St. Peter's at Eome quite fails to do. In the exterior design of the building there are two very notable shams. The height of the walls is very much above the level of the roof, and the big exterior dome is constructed at a very considerable height above the interior dome. A great defect in the design of the building is that it is divided into two stories of equal height. On the whole, however, the building is one of the finest metropolitan cathe' drals in the world. „ , . ... It is not, after all, in the architecture of churches or public