154- "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. j Spitzbergen was reached. Though the expedition failed to reach the North Pol-e the scientific results are numerbys and important Dr. Nansen's view as to the direction of the Arctic current has been shown to be correct; the Polar sea has been found to be exceedingly deep, some *2,200 fathoms having been sounded in some places, while Dr. Nansen ex- presses the opinion that the frozen sea extends to the Pole. In February, 1897, he came to Britain with Mrs. Nansen and received quite a great ovation. One of his first public appearances was at a dinner of the Eoyal Society's Club on February 5th. Sir Clements Markharn, President of the Geographical Society, speaking on the daring enterprise, said that prior to his departure on the expedition, Nansen came to them and explained his plan, and drew a line across the unknown regions on one of their maps as the route he hoped to be able to take. Although it contained in the past almost insurmountable difficulties, he did exactly what he intended to do. There was no instance that he (the President) ever read of, of any man undertaking a great enterprise in all the ages that were past who had been so completely and deservedly successfid. And it was no ea?y task that Nansen had to perform. He had to decide upon many questions amidst conflicting opinions. He had to settle numerous details—a mistake in any one of which might have caused failure. How all these men ever surmounted their intolerable sufferings month after month was beyond his conception. Future .Arctic Expeditions. Dr. Nansen gave many lectures in Great Britain during the year (1897), and at a meeting of the Geographical Society toward the end of March references were made to a future expedition. "If," said he, "I should start again, the new ship I should build would be even better than the Fyam, and if a man were to spend five years in her I feel certain he would bring back observations that would repay him < many times, because he would then have a rich collection of material that would enable one to form a clear and gooa idea of the physical conditions of the North Polar regions. ' In the summer of 1897 Dr. Nansen agreed to lend the ±ram for an expedition, chiefly English, to sail to the North Polar regions, and advised the members as to route and equipment You can't do without soap!