" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. 3io some dark red wood from the West Indies, and Mrs. Gibbon, wanting a new candle-box, her husband ordered it to be made of the new wood: He desired the box to be ornamental. The joiner was like his tools, he turned aside from the task, for, said he, the wood is so hard, tools won't work it. Dr. Gibbon insisted that harder tools should be found, and he had his way, and the box was made. It was the first article made in England of mahogany, and was much admired. Then Dr. Gibbon had a bureau made of the wood, which was polished with linseed oil. Mahogany became popular; men saw there was money to be earned by importing it; and Chippendale arrived to make good use of it. Satin wood came in some years later, and rose into great vogue, being also frequently used with tulip wood. All kinds of woods are, of course, now used for furniture; but one of the points after all, in choosing furniture is to see that it is thoroughly well made, and that the joints are firm. Showiness of appearance may cover loose, badly-constructed joints, and ill-seasoned, if not even warped wood. The old " kings " of furniture-making seem to have always selected thoroughly well seasoned and finely-grained wood; and if you select modern furniture having the same qualities you will have a good article, even if not quite in the fashion. But, in fact, much modern furniture is made "in the fashion," and very accurate and harmonious it is. If sold as "modern" Chippendale, or in the Chippendale or Sheraton style, it need not be outrageously high-priced, but may be very satisfactory, and even " fashionable," all the same. Variations of these styles also may produce very satisfactory results. Ebony was also introduced during the seventeenth century, having come to Europe from the Portuguese settlements in, India. Admirably carved specimens may be seen sometimes in old country houses. Ebony was fashionable to an extent, but was always rare, for the wood has only been imported in small pieces. A so-called Dutch ebony cabinet of the seven- teenth century has been exhibited in the South Kensington Museum, beautifully carved with mythological subjects in relief. It is called Dutch, but no doubt it was the work of French artisans who fled to the Netherlands after the revoca- tion of the Edict of Nantes. Comfort also must be considered. It is foolish to purchase SUNLIGHT SOAP supplies