ai8 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. used to prevent the air from becoming too dry; Hearson's " thermostatic nurse " is, however, provided with an automatic contrivance which cuts off the heat when the apparatus is in danger of becoming too hot. Mention must also be made of the Home for Epileptics at Chalfont St. Peter. Mr. Passmore Edwards gave a farm for the purpose, and late in 1895 the branch for men, the first of its kind, was opened; since then the branch for women and children has been actively pushed forward. The epileptics are employed in suitable and useful avocations, with the view of mitigating their terrible complaint. The further observation of the serum therapy of diphtheria has increased faith in the treatment, andYirchow, comparing statistics of the Children's Hospital, showed that when the serum therapy was used, the deaths were about two-thirds fewer in number, i.e., percentage of deaths was reduced from 37-63 to 11-2. The Lancet has also discovered that the plan of preparing cocoa with alkali of 'some kind is on the increase. The reason is, it is said, to make the cocoa more soluble, but the cocoa "fat" is partially saponified and makes the beverage look fuller-bodied and deeper in colour. It is said that the use of alkali does not make the cocoa more tasty and digestible, and that in fact the alkali tends to cause indigestion. The use of cocoas quito free from alkali would appear to be desirable. The use of permanganate of potash for opium poisoning has been shown to be very efficacious, and picric acid has been introduced as an excellent remedy for burns and scalds. The value of vaccination as a preventive for smallpox has been keenly liscussed, and the centenary of Jenner has been celebrated. Undoubtedly, however, the application of the famous "X" or Eontgen Pays to both medical and surgical science has been one of the most remarkable and important of facts. This new "light" has been used to detect foreign matters in the body, and needles and bullets in the human frame have been thus discovered, also the course of broken bones and dislocations have been traced. It is said they will also kill the germs or bacteria of that fell complaint diphtheria. The full effect and application of this new power, which will reveal hidden things, are not yet perhaps fully understood, but the increasing use of the rays has been a marked feature in the science of the time. Take life easy, use SUNLIGHT SOAP.