"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 38 For a Letter, Packet,or other article over 1 lb. in weight the Express fee is:—j Per every mile or part of a mile Sd. For every lb. or part of a lb. beyond the first lb Ifyl, Fjxpresn Delivery of Letters and Parcels by Mail—Fee, 3d. per mile, in addition to the ordinary postasre. In London letters and parcels for express delivery in town and suburbs are accepted at 2(10 Post Offices. Jn the provinces they are acce;ted at all Post Others,' with few exceptions, from which there is a delivery of telegrams, and are delivered in any part of the town or rural district. Bill Stamps. Not exceeding 51 Id. „ m v..2<f. 25i g* „ „ 501 M. ,, 752 9rf. 1001 .....1/- and 1/- extra for every additional 1001., or fraction thereof. Post Office Savings Bank. Any Hum from one shilling upwards to 502. may be paid in as an ordinary deposit. The total deposit in any one year (ending Dec. 31) must not exceed o'Jl, The liinit is 200i. in all (including interest, and stock dividends, if any). A pers >n, besides etepusfting 50'. in any year ending 31st December, may deposit in the same year one sum or several sums for the purpose of replacing in wliole or ia part the amount of any one (but not more than one), withdrawal previously made in that year. , , ,. A d-po-itor may obtain payment from h-s account of any sum not exceeding lot. on tha same day on which notice is given by defraying the cost of tbe necessary telegrams to and from the Controller, Savings-Bank, London. Government Stock Investments. Any amount of Stoc.lt, from one shilling upwards, may be purchased subject; to the prescribed limits, viz.:— .1 The annual li..:it for such investments (as regards the arncrnt tnat may be7 credited to a depositor in any year ending 31st December) isI 2001. b:oei. J The total amount of Stock standing to a Depositor's credit at any cue time mus« DThecomm?™ (including the receipt o4 dividends;, and on the salo of Stock is as follows:— ^ On Stock not exceeding 251 0 9 „ exceeding 251. and not exceeding 501 i ■> I : jg ;; ;; \ With a further change of id'.'ia respect of'every 10u/. or p^tofiobj.' Stock, above 2(X)i Government Annuities and Insurances. Immediate or Deferred Ar.nuities from 11. up to 103/., may be purchased through the Po-s Office on the life of any person over 5 years of age. .. , « I He Insurances, from 51. to 1001 , can be granHd to per*auWfW 14 «»* » years of age Children between 8 and 14 years of age can be injured lor U. Foreign and Colonial Postal Table and Mails. See smiling faces all around, s