429 SOME INDOOR GAMES, SOME INDOOR GAMES. Dumb Crambo.—The company divide into two parties; one leaves the room ; the other chooses a simple word which has several rhymes to it, as " dance." The other party are then called in and told that a word has been chosen rhy- ming to "lance;" the others have then to guess the word, hut must act it in dumb show, and not utter it in speech.' Thus they might agree together that the word was "prance," and they would imitate the prancing of horses. They would be met by a chorus of hisses, telling them they were wrong, and would retire to agree upon another word. They might then come in and draw an outline of France or imitate the throwing of dice to suggest the word "chance" and so on, until hitting upon "dance," they dance round and round and are greeted with the clapping of hands telling them they are right.s The other party then take their turn in going out, and guess the word chosen. Buzz.—The company seat themselves round the room and the master or mistress of the ceremonies—say the hostess— tells them to cry their number. So the first begins, one ; the second cries tiuo; and so on till seven comes, when he or she must cry " Euzz " ; eight to thirteen continue as before, but fourteen must cry "Buzz" and so on for every multiple of seven up to seventy, when " Buzz, buzz," must be used, and " Buzz, buzz, buzz," for seventy-seven. Everyone who neglects to cry "Buzz " at the multiple of seven or "Buzz, buzz," later on, must pay a forfeit. The game may be played with almost any number, as the crying of the figures may go round and round as long as desired, and eirors are pretty certain to be made, especially when more than one "buzz" is required. Bib=bob will amuse a large number of little folks. One or two cords must be stretched across the room, or from tree to tree m the open air, and little toys, apples, oranges, figs, sweetmeats, &c, may be hung to them by thread or small cord, not too close together. One of the children is to be blindfolded and given a little stick, with which he is to feel ins way for the "bib-bobs," or articles hung on the lines. 27 Gold Medals and other Awards.