258 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP. Exports of Foreign and Colonial Merchandise. Total value during 1895—£59,942,391. „ „ 1896 -£56,466,465, a decrease of £3,475,926. The Living Animals exported from the United Kingdom included horses, cattle, sheep and lambs, and swine. The articles of Food and Brink, beer and ale, biscuits and bread, butter, cheese, herrings, other fish, hops, pickles, vinegar, sauces, pro- visions (including meat), rock and white salt, British and Irish brandy, refinecr-sugar and candy. The Raw Materials, coal and patent fuel, coal for steamers' use, and wool (sheep and lambs'). The Manufactured and partly Manufactured Goods, cotton yarn, cotton piece goods, and other cotton goods, jute yarn and jute piece and other goods, linen yarn and goods, silk, thrown, twist, and yarn, and silk manufactured goode of all kinds, woollen and worsted vara, alpaca and mohair yarn, hair or wool yarn, woollen tissues, worsted tissues, wool damasks, wool and mohair plushes, woollen flannels, carpets, blankets, &c. s Metal Goods.-*™** and manufactures of brass (wrought and unwrought), hardware and cutlery, implements and tools or parts thereof, wrought and unwrought iron, pig-lead and rolled lead plate and plated and gilt wares, telegraphic wires, &c, unwrought tin, and zinc, or spelter. Machinery.-Steam engines and other descriptions of machinery. Avvarel and articles of Personal Eto.-Apparel and ''slops," haber- m dashery and millinery, hats of all sorts, boots and shoes, umbrellas and parasols, &c. Chemicals.-Mkzli, bleaching materials, chemical manure, and medicines. Uiscellaneous.-hrm*, ammunition and military stores empty bags and sacks printed books, candles of all descriptions, manufactures cfcaoutchoPnc, railway carriages for P^^J^f^ railwav trucks, waggons, &c, not of iron, and parts thereof, cycles and parts thereof, Sment, products of coal Njg# mraffin paraffin oil and petroleum , cordage, cables and twine, grthenaPnd china ware an*d red pottery, f™^" ^and uoholstery wares), glass of all kinds, wrought eather (in audit on Koots a7nd shoes, unwrought leather, seed oil «>il clc'tb ^d floor cloth, india-rubber cloth, pa liters' colours P^P6^ rags and paper-making maenal J^yjfJS ^o'k" and rag furs, soap, stationery (other than PaPe^oann.Vfc" gV» wool, " noils » waste, combed or carded, and tops.