435 SOME INDOOR GAMES. 7. Blow a candle out blindfold. This often causes muck amusement; the blindfolded person is led to the table on which, the candl9 is placed, and often blows in quite the wrong direction. The candle should be placed sufficiently far from the person to prevent the face or hair being scorched. 8. A musical medley. If it be desired to redeem several forfeits at once, the owners of <he forfeited articles may be told to sing each a different song, and if, for instance, four persons be selected and each chooses a different "round," the effect of the different lines following after one another or clashing together may be very grotesque. A variation, of course, would be to instruct them to sing a glee or part song together, properly, or one after the other, each one his or her own song, or give a recitation. This might form an appro- priate close to the game of forfeits. 9. Three Signs.—The person stands with his, or her, face to the wall, while one of the opposite sex makes three signs behind, viz., of a pinch, or a kiss, or a box-on-the-ear, and he is to guess which of the three he would prefer. 10. Mention half a dozen flattering things to a lady or gentleman without the letter " 1" ; then you may say " Miss or Mr. So-and-So is pretty, handsome, entertaining, generous, good-tempered, good, upright, strong," &c.,. but such words as graceful, gallant, chivalrous, charitable, beautiful, &c, are not admissible, as they all contain the letter "1." 11. The Grecian Statue.— This is more suited for a gentle- man. He must stand on a chair, and the company, one after the other, may pose him, i.e., one may bend his arm into any position (awkward or not) ; another may turn up his head, with the chin in the air; a third may move out a foot, so that the unfortunate statue poses and balances on one leg. He may be made to kneel in a mock heroic attitude, as in "Ajax defying the lightning"; or the poses need not be always humorous. 12. Opportunity.—This is more suited for a lady. She must stand in the middle of the room and spell opportunity and then walk to her seat. If one or more gentlemen can reach her before she sits down they may claim a kiss. It will be seen that several of these forfeits may be taken as separate games, apart from " Forfeits." Why not get SUNLIGHT SOAP—the Best ?