THE PROGRESS OF CIVILIZATION. 141 the largest soap works in the world. probably among the earliest navigators. Mankind probably first floated on logs ; then logs were most likely bound together to form a raft; next a log would be hollowed out; in some cases wickerwork coracles covered with skins were made. Further ships were built up from rafts by adding ribs or plat- forms. Homer describes Ulysses as building a raft with a raised platform. The ships of the Phoenicians seem to have been well built though small; they had long galleys for rowing, and for use in war, and also broader vessels for trading, probably propelled by sails. The Mariner's Compass is said, by Chinese annals, to have been made 2634 B.C. by the Emperor Ho-ang-ti, and it indicated the south instead of the north. The power of the magnet to turn always in the one direction was apparently unknown in Europe till the twelfth century. Lord Kelvin's excellent compass was patented in 1876. Mechanics and Mechanical Appliances.—Archimedes shows the power of the lever, and invents the screw of Archimedes about 266—212 b.c. The screw of Archimedes will raise water, and is still used. Wallis in 1695 says Archimedes "laid the foundations of nearly all those inventions, the further prosecution of which is the boast of our age.'' Pneumatics and early ideas about Steam as a Power.— Hero of Alexandria described methods of using steam as a power, and is said to have made a toy called the iEolopile, having properties of a steam engine, 284—241 b.c. Electricity.—The electric properties of amber, when rubbed, are said to have been known by Thales about 600 b.o. Lighthouse at Alexandria, 550 ft. high, fire on top, 285 b.c. Paper is said to have been made from the reed Papyrus in Egypt and India centuries before the birth of Christ. Brass money in use, according to Homer, about 1180 B.C. Money coined at Home 570 b.c Gold coined 206 b.c. Bells said to have been introduced in Christian churches by Paulinas, Bishop of Nola, about 400. Cotton is said to have been brought into Europe by the followers of Mahomet, about 627. (The cotton plant is indigenous to the tropical parts of America, and of India, and Herodotus mentions Indian cloth made of cotton.) Banks were first established in Italy by the Lombard Jews, 808. J J