DOMESTIC ECONOMY, 299 is bad ; very strong tea is bad also; but freshly-made brisk tea is distinctly beneficial. Very few people seem to make tea properly. The cardinal point is to use fresh water, freshly boiled, and to use it directly it does boil, but to see that it boils; the steam should jet out vigorously from the kettle spout. The reason for this is obvious; water boiled up twice becomes flat, and the point is to use it just as it is bubbling and effervescing with its first boiling. Then the teapot should be made quite warm before the tea is put into it; and all the boiling water for the tea should be poured on at once; in other words if you have sufficient tea in the pot fill it up at once. Tea should never be watered twice. Warren Hastings, our great Indian pro-consul, who may be supposed to have learned the value of tea in the East, never would permit this. As for the quantity, a teaspoonful for each person, and one for the pot, is a rough-and-ready rule which seems to work well. When the water is poured on, place the teapot near the fire for about five minutes or so, the point being to keep the water very hot, but not boiling, and not to stew the leaves a long time, otherwise the tannin may be extracted, which is indigestible. If there be no fire, place a cosey over the teapot after making the tea. After use, the tea-leaves should be removed from the pot at once and the teapot washed and dried. These details may be thought trivial but they cause all the difference between, good and bad tea, and while the one in moderation is bene- ficial to the system, the other is pernicious. Used tea-leaves may be sprinkled over the carpet when sweeping it, to help in laying the dust, and finally they may be burned. Should live animals be kept a few may be given to them. Coffee is more stimulating than tea and increases the heart's action. It should not be taken too strong or it may injure the nerves* Some people say it assists digestion ; others say it retards digestion, the truth probably being that if well made, not boiled, and taken in moderation it does not retard digestion: A Utile chicory may perhaps not spoil coffee. As in making tea, the water should be poured on directly it boils, and the coffee should be placed in a hot pot. The coffee ought not to be boiled. Cocoa is more nourishing than tea or coffoo and is on the whole more economical. Some people cannot take thick, heavy or fat cocoas, i.e., cocoa from which the natural makes light work of a heavy wash.