SUNLIGHT'1 YEAR-BOOK. 45« SUNLIGHT SOAP,~CoM Medal Jamaica, 1891. indomitable energy, are permanently placed the gigantic works of the well-known firm of Messrs. Lever Brothers, Limited, manufacturers of Sunlight Soap. The village of Port Sunlight, which surrounds the works, is a model one; ita sanitary arrangements are perfect, the beauty of its surround- ings unique, and the cottages themselves are every one of them built with an eye to the artistic, both in grouping and design. In the beginning of 1886, Messrs. Lever Brothers commenced their soap works at Warrington, when the capacity of the works was twenty tons of soap per week. Now, in 1897, the Works at Port Sunlight have a capacity of 2,400 tons per week, and no less than 2,200 persons are engaged in this industrial undertaking in various capacities and in all parts of the world. To enter for a few minutes into the life of this busy hive of workers, the reader is asked to imagine himself or herself to be one of the frequent parties of visitors who present them- selves at the doors of the office asking to be shown over the works and village. The office is larger and handsomer than many a well-known bank, and a busy tribe of clerks are at work upon ponderous ledgers. The private rooms of the beads of the firm run down each side, and their walls are adorned with both the originals and coloured reproductions of many a picture that has graced the "line" of the Academy, pictures by artists of acknowledged celebrity which are now used to illustrate the merits of Sunlight and Lifebuoy Soaps. Passing through the office, we enter the great Printing Department, which is admirably lighted and well ventilated. Here are printing machines of all sorts and conditions for printing all kinds of matter, from box labels to pamphlets, from soap wrappers to the "Port Sunlight Monthly Journal," a neatly got up and beautifully printed and illus- trated publication of 32 pages and wrapper, to which the employes contribute topical articles, and in which are recorded, month by month, the doing3 of the Village Council and the various clubs, classes and societies which make up the social life of Port Sunlight village. The machines in this depart- ment are particularly interesting. There is one great rotary machine, from Paris, which turns out twenty-four thousand 32-page (Royal) pamphlets per hour. Another rotary machine