ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. 241 and perhaps we might say the cleverest, efforts in modern architectural art in England savour very much of affectation, and are often of a very archaic type of art. To briefly sum up the position of English architecture to- day we should perhaps be within the mark in saying that our best architects produce country houses such as cannot be equalled anywhere in the world for picturesque beauty and simplicity allied with all the comfort and practical conveni- ences which modern ingenuity and science have rendered possible; whilst in regard to modern Gothic churches, we think it would be impossible for any nation in the world to vie with a few of the foremost English architects in the production of characteristic, refined and beautiful Gothic churches. But un- fortunately, one cannot feel that such efforts are directed in the best manner, because the conditions of worship, which called forth our great Gothic churches, are now so different to the time when the English laboured under the stern rule of priests and soldiers. It is in the design of public buildings of any important nature that English architects fall far short of the possibilities of their art, and compared with them, both Erench and American architects of the first rank are far superior. The elements of grandeur and scale seem to be beyond the grasp of nearly all our architects of any grade whatever. On the other hand, interesting detail and pictur- esque treatment are to be found in abundance, and there are in England buildings to which we may point with some con- siderable satisfaction as evidence of the progress we have made. Picturesqueness has always been a very essential quality of English architecture, and our great cathedrals will hold their own the world over from the impressiveness of their length, solidity ^ of treatment, and picturesqueness of features, in con- tra-distinction to French or German cathedrals, wherein great height and often extreme elegance of detail are the prevail- ing characteristics. It must be admitted that much of the beauty in our old churches is due to the offect of time and tone, and often to the variations of style in which we now see them. The one great striking example we have of a complete Gothic church in one style, the Cathedral of Salisbury, is undoubtedly monotonous to a degree. Some of the most charm- makes linen whiter and homes brighter.