434 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. " Forfeits."—Most people know how forfeits are re- deemed and know also some humorous or puzzling things which have to "be done by a person who has "forfeited" an article by an error in a game ; all kinds of things may, of course, be invented, but anything rough or rude, or that would give pain, should of course be avoided. We give a few here which perhaps may not be well known. The person who " cries " the forfeits may bow her face in a friend's lap so that she cannot see to whom the forfeited article belongs. The question is asked in the time-honoured phrase—" Here's a thing, and a very pretty thing, and what is to be done by the owner of this very pretty thing ? " [before he or she gets it back again]. The blindfolded person may ask whether the forfeit belongs to a lady or gentleman. 1. He must (says the r .acle) put one hand where the other cannot reach it! The desperate endeavours of the person to execute this puzzling manoeuvre excites much laughter unless be or she knows the answer—which is to place one hand on the elbow of the other arm. 2 and 3. Other redemptions of forfeits are puzzling, being due to the confusing grammatical construction of the order, thus—" Bite an inch off the poker " strictly means " bite an inch away from the poker;" so also—"Put two chairs back to back, take off your shoes, and jump over them." This instruction may be as puzzling to a young •lady who has to accomplish the feat as the biting " off the poker may be to a child who cannot possibly understand the puzzling order until explained; but the true grammatical meaning of course is that the shoes are to be jumped over, and not the chairs. 4 and 5. Blindfold the person and let him guess who touches him; he is at liberty to retain the hand that touches him if he can hold it. variation is to give the blindfolded person a spoonful of water, and he is to guess who has given it. , 6. To kiss rabbit fashion. The person who has to redeem the forfeit may select any one of the opposite sex; a piece of cotton is broken from a reel, the lady takes one end m her mouth and the gentleman the other end, and they have to mo'ulz the cotton until the kiss ensues. You can't do without soap!