474 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. I hav9 really done my double best to get it and I do hope one of the darling watches will come to " Little Mb. " P.S.—Sunlight, you dear, dear man, please do hurry up and let ma know, quick, quick, about the prizes, and I Bhall send you forty thousand thanks, all to yourself, when the watch comes." We certify that this letter was written unaided by the boy whose name is at the toe of it, and that he is under 14 tears of age. (Signed) Mrs. George and Miss S., Teacher, ■ Sunland Schools, Brighthome. NOW FOR THE £100 IN PRIZES. Girls and Boys under Fourteen Years of Age only may enter for these prizes. You may do as Harold George did, ask your mother or guardian to try Sunlight Soap, if it be not already used in your home; for why should you not make those you love thus happy without expecting any other reward than the knowledge that you have made others bappy ? We are not, however, offering any prizes for that. We offer these prizes to the girls and boys under fourteen years of age, who shall send us the be3t letter, describing- How I made Mother Happy. If you live with a guardian and not with your mother, then describe How I made my Guardian Happy. Begin your letter with your name, your address in full, the date and then, " Dear Sunlight." , , nn. Write as neatly as you can, without help from anyone, and do no« copy the wording of our specimen letter: we prefer your own words. If you wish you may say whether or not Sunlight Soap is used in your home. If Sunlight Soap be used at home, we Bhall know that it is a home happy in one respect. Do not let your letter exceed 500 words, but it may be as short as you please. Write on ordinary letter paper, on one side only of the paper. At the end of your letter write— We certify that this letter was written, unaided, BY THE BOY (OR GIRL) WHOSE NAME IS WRITTEN AT THE HEAD, AND HE (OR SE3) IS UNDER 14 YEARS OF AGE. Signed) Ask vour mother or guardian and your school teacher to sign it. Pin your papers together by the top left corner. Enclose m m envelope addressed like this. SUNUGHTSOAP is made in a special manner