ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. 239 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Lyons, 1894. ENGLISH ARCHITECTURE. Historically, the study of English architecture carries ua back to the invasion of Britain by the Romans ; practically, we need go no farther back than the Norman Conquest. There certainly had been some attempt made towards the close of the Anglo-Saxon era to build churches, but these were rude structures, mostly constructed of wood, and laid out on the lines of contemporary Roman art. Traces of this Saxon, or early round-arched style, have been discovered in some 35 or 40 churches, and one particularly notable instance is the Saxon doorway under the tower of Monkwearmouth Church, in Durham, in which the characteristics of the style are' specially evidenced. But the art was certainly of the rudest type, though the style was nevertheless distinctly arcuated* The Saxon style lasted 366 years. It was, however, the Norman Conquest which ushered in the first real epoch of architectural history in this country. What the Saxons had done in the way of ecclesiastical art waa destroyed to make way for a rebuilding on a finer and more ex- tensive scale altogether. "With an astonishing appreciation for the true principles of architectural proportion ("the> fundamental element of the beautiful in architecture ") the architects of the Norman period upreared cathedrals and churches which by their form and size had at least the one great quality of impressiveness. Good examples of Norman work are to be noted in St. Bartholomew's Church, Smith- field, London, and Durham and Ely Cathedrals. The latter, of course, furnish us with two of the best typical specimens. But the architecture of this period of the round-arched style progressed rapidly in the direction of new methods of con- struction and the new application of carved work; whilst even painting became an allied art in a practical sense. The Norman period lasted about 100 years. In 1185 there began the rise of Gothic art, which on account of its " lancet ''-shaped windows was called the Lancet style,known also as Pointed, architecture. No doubt there was a transitional stage, but scarcely sufficient to form a recognised period of art. The Lancet style (or Plantagenet, as Eergusson terms it) progressed for some 60 or 100 years, developing thereafter into the "Early" and "Late