335 HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. where SUNLIGHT SOAP is used. Cleanliness is Next to Godliness they say, but many people make home an ungodly place from bad temper when their nerves are all unstrung with their efforts to be clean. This would not be the case if they had a proper help in house-cleaning—and the best help women ever had—one who will not want " wages," nor " beer money," " evenings out," nor even "followers," is the silent friend in the paper wrapper, labelled— "SUNLIGHT SOAP." CONCERNING THE HAIR AND SKIN. Brilliantine (a nice dressing for Eough Hair).—Eau de Cologne and Lever's Glycerine, of each 1 part; honey, 2 parts; rectified spirit, 4 parts. To Cleanse a Scurfy Head, Lifebuoy Soap will be found valuable. Wash the scalp well with it and hot water once a week. Sunlight Soap is the best thing for washing light-coloured hair. It cleanses thoroughly. It is highly recommended for this purpose by Lady Mary Shelley. Tor washing dark, dry hair Quillai bark is excellent; and can be bought at any chemist's. Tie a bit in muslin and shake it well in a basin of warm water till a lather forms. The hair needs cleanliness and fresh air. Plenty of brushing is most important for its beauty. Heavy, warm head- coverings, which prevent the escape of the exhalations of the scalp, are very injurious to it. Lime Juice and Glycerine, for strengthening, cleansing and beautifying the hair.—Lime juice, \ pint; rose water, \ pint; Lever's Glycerine, 2 oz.; rectified spirit, 2 oz.; oil of lemon, 30 drops. Glycerine and Lime Cream. Ditto.—Lever's Glycerine, oil oi sweet almonds, and lime water, of each 4 ozs.; tincture of cantharides, \ oz.; mix and add perfume to taste A little to be rubbed into the roots of the hair if it is falling m Skin.—To preserve the beauty of the skin a good soap is important. Coloured, highly-scented soaps are very injurious, and frequently lead to skin eruptions. Sunlight Soap is otten thought to be unfitted for toilet use, but we have two important proofs that this idea is quite erroneous. One is the