140 "SUNLIGHT?1 YEAR-BOOK. THE PROGRESS OF CIVILIZATION. INDUSTRIAL AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF MANKIND. The Stone Age.—Mankind used stone for making weapons and tools. This era of human existence has varied with different peoples, the South Sea Islanders, for instance, remaining within that era until the nineteenth century. European nations, however, passed through a Stone age centuries before Christ was born. The Bronze Age.—It is supposed that, from the use of etone^ mankind went on to the use of bronze. Brass in the Bible would probably be more correctly rendered bronze, this metal being a mixture of tin and copper, though sometimes other metals; zinc, silver, and lead are found in ancient bronze. The Iron Age.—From the use of bronze certain peoples passed on to the use of iron, and the poems of Homer show a nation passing from one to the other. In Genesis iv. 22 it is stated that iron was worked by Tubal Cain. The Alphabet.—The accuracy of the statement that the Phoenicians invented their alphabet is doubted. It is probable that it was derived from Egyptian picture-writing. But may not the Phoenicians have invented a picture-writing themselves? Nevertheless, the fifty modern alphabets are believed to be developments from the Phoenician. The alpha- bet is held to be the oldest trace of civilization. Buildings.—The earliest building materials were most probably elay and wood. Before building, mankind pro- bably lived in caves. From using clay man got on, most likely, to using slabs of sun-dried clay, or drying and burn- ing the clay slabs in a fire, and the use of bricks began, They were used in very early days of civilization. Glass, according to tradition, was discovered by the Phoenicians. One day some merchants placed cooking pots on lumps of soda on a sandy spot and kindled a fire under the pots. The soda and sand were fused by the heat and pro- duced a glass. Its manufacture is shown on Egyptian sepul- chres dating back some 2,500 years before Christ, and it is mentioned even earlier. Early Navigation.—The Phoenicians and Egyptians were SUNLIGHT SOAP is made at