284 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. their health; sometimes hens must he enticed away by a little tempting food. Barley, also barley meal and mashed potatoes may be given when they leave the nest; but water and food may be kept near the nest. The fact is, a sitting hen should have as much food as she can eat; but to be fed continually on the nest tends to cripple hens. The bird should not stay away more than half an hour at the longest, and when likely to remain away too long should be driven gently back, but not be caught. If necessary to remove the hen from the nest she should be carefully lifted off, by holding her under her wings. Thus, should she be sitting in the fowl-house, she can be removed, and fed, and then shut in again, without annoyance from the other fowls. About twenty-one days after the eggs were placed under the hen, the chickens should begin to break the shells. Ihe time may be a few hours earlier if the eggs were very fresh; and a few hours later if the eggs were stale. Much as you might like to assist the little creatures m breaking their shells, you should not, as a rule, attempt to do so; though some chickens may be stuck to the sheU and require help, it, in about six hours' time, the sheU is not broken. < The chick is very tender, and the operation requires the greatest care. The hole in the shell may be enlarged with a Icissor's point, but the utmost delicacy is necessary The chicks willnot require food for about twenty-four hours after hatching. The first meal should consist of bread- crumbs steeped in milk, and the yolk of egg boiled hard; or good egg custard. Then, at intervals of about two hoiiis coafse oatmeal, slightly moistened with milk, or water so as to be crumbly, may be given for a few days, but you must be careful that the milk is not sour or does not become so afterwards crushed wheat, or oats may be thrown down and a mixture of oatmeal and Indian meal given the growing chicks Thev also require green food, and if they have no grass platon which \o run, lettuces and cabbie leaves chopped up, and grass, also cut into small pieces, may be give?them; a little cooked meat, finely minced, may like- wise be added to their daily dietary. Fattening:.— To prepare chickens for the table they should be wdl fed from* the first. Meat must be put on ?heir bonerbefore fat. Mr1Pip^ulejs^^^ SUNLIGHT SOAP does its work