3o8 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK, HINTS ON FURNITURE. Gone is the fashion of horsehair chairs in vogue in the earlier Victorian era, and gone also are the ideas of horsehair sofas, of rosewood furniture, and heavy gilt frames. Fashion changes in furniture as in dress, "with, however, this consoling proviso, that if genuine and well made, good furniture must always be useful, if not decorative, or exactly fashionable; and when the whirligig of change places it again in vogue, it will rise considerably in value. Such has been the case, with the Chippendale and Sheraton goods—the "spindle-legged" furniture, as some people have not inappropriately called it. Thomas Chippendale migrated from Worcester to London about the time that mahogany was coming into vogue, and he made his furniture of that sound and beautiful wood. The curves and lines of his productions are excellent—some say perfect—and his chair- backs are carved open-work. The legs of his tables and chairs are very slender ; but it is said he never " inlaid " his work, so that if any broker or auctioneer tries to sell you an " inlaid " piece of Chippendale furniture you may question its genuineness. f Sheraton, however, inlaid his goods; indeed, " inlay ' forms one of his characteristics, while his " legs " are more spindle- shanked even than those of Chippendale. He also liked carvings of wreaths of flowers, musical instruments, or draperies. Time passed, and the fashion for these things passed away. The furniture of Sheraton and Chippendale and of another maker, named Hepp el white, who nourished about the same time, sank in price and popular esteem, so much so that it was regarded as "old rubbish." Much that was massive, pretentious and expensive came into vogue ; but that style has now declined in its turn, and fashion went back to the " spindle-legs." There has been a great unearthing of the once-called "old rubbish" and lumber-rooms and curiosity shops have been made to yield up their dusty treasures. Prices, of course, rose accordingly. m Good modern furniture may, therefore, be made in these stvles, and look very pleasing, and afford great satisfaction, without being genuine Chippendale—that is, actuallymade SUNLIGHT SOAP is made at