KNIGHTHOOD, ORDERS OF. 77 Star of Jndia.-Themost exalted Order of the Star of India was in- «hS in 1861 and subsequently enlarged in 1806 and 18.6..It ons ts of the Sovereign, tne Grand Master' (f/ V--oy o India) GCS.I's, 30; K.O.S.I.'s, 72, and CS.I.'a 144; but extra ana bXyamcetoSean OrTr'-TMs' Order, which the Queen.created in ISwi inSnZdtov Zle who have rendered personal services to Her Majesty, and resembles the Foreign Family Order rather- than any of the existing English Orders. It will rank next to the Order of the ^dSnEmpi- SI the five classes of whichit will consist the toft or Grand Cordon (G.C.V.O.), consists at present of Eoyal Pxinces and members of the nobility, and General Sir Dighton Probyn. There are also Honorary Knights Grand Cross The second class connate of Knights Commanders (K.C.V.O.). the third of Commanders (O.Y.O ), and the fourth and fifth of Members (M.V.O.). 1 St. Michael and St. Qeorge-This most distinguishedOrd« was instituted in 1818, and subsequently enlarged. It consista of the Sovereign, princes of the blood, the Grand Master (the Duke of Cam- bridge), and G.C.M.G.'s, 50 (exclusive of extra and honoraiy members) ; K.C.M.G.'s, 150, and C.M.G . s 260. Indian Empire.-The most eminent Order of the Indian Empire was instituted in 1878, and subsequently enlarged m 1886 and 1887. It consists of the Sovereign, Grand Master (the Viceroy) and three classes to be styled Knights Grand Commanders (G.C.L^,) Knights Commanders (K.C.I.E.), and Companions (CLE.). The order is conferred in recognition of distinguished services, official or otner, to the Indian Empire. , _ . _ ,. Crown of India.—The Imperial Order of the Crown of Lndia instituted 1878, to commemorate the assumption of the title or Empress by Queen Victoria (Jan. 1, 1877). It includes the Princesses of the Eoyal Family and of the Indian Empire, and the wives ot distinguished Indian officials, and Secretaries of State. • Distinguished Service Order.—This Order was founded by Her ivTajesty in Nov., 1886, for the purpose of rewarding instances of per- sonal merit and bravery, the means for recognising which were before extremely limited. The Order is available for both the navy and the army, but is restricted to officers therein, though foreign officers may be honorary members. The badge is a gold cross enamelled white, with Imperial crown in the centre on one side and the cypher " V.E.I." on the"other; it is suspended by a red ribbon edged with blue. Yictoria and Albert.—The Eoyal Order of Victoria and Albert is for ladies only, and was instituted Feb., 1862, being enlarged in 1864, 1835, and 1880. It is divided into four classes. Yictoria Cross.—A decoration, instituted 1856, to reward conspicuous individual gallantry in the presence of the enemy. It is beBtowed on all ranks of the army and navy. It is a bronz9 Maltese cross with a royal crown in the centre with a lion above, and the words "For Valour" below the crown. For the army the ribbon is red, and blue for the navy. The decoration carries with it an annual pension of lOt. , makes homes brighter and hearts lighter.