386 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. Should deafness, or discharge from tho ear arise, consult a doctor. As this complaint is so infectious use LiFEiiuor Soap. Neuralgia.—Nerve pain. The term has come to he used to include pain of the- nerves, connecting the teeth or gums •with the brain. Neuralgia generally arises from cold, and also want of tone in the nervous system. A grain of quinine may be taken three or four times a day, and will often effect a cure. Some persons can take larger doses. The red cin- chona bark affords a useful and cheap tonic for those who cannot take quinine {see Influenza). Hot fomentations, such as sponges or hot flannels wrung out of boiling water may be applied to ease the pain. Neuralgic sufferers, it is said, need fat; if they cannot digest the fat of meat they should try cream, eggs, milk, cod-liver oil. Neuralgia often arises from bad teeth, and a dentist should be consulted. Paralysis.—Often follows apoplexy {which see). There is loss of feeling or power of motion in various parts of the body. Loss of power in one side of the body is called hemi- plegia, or, in the lower parts, paraplegia. There may be also local palsies. Paralysis may occur without an apoplectic attack, but there are usually premonitory signs, such as a torpor of the body, pain, or a feeling of weight in the head, aDd loss of memory. The complaint is too serious for household treatment, and a doctor must be consulted. Nux vomica (strychnine) is a powerful nervine tonic. Dr. Lankester prescribes one twenty-fourth of a grain as a dose, but it must be used very cautiously as it is poisonous. Piles (also Called Hemorrhoids).— Painful tumours, situated inside and sometimes outside the opening of the lower bowel. In certain cases they bleed frequently and the patient becomes much weakened. They are often caused by consti- pation, too sedentary a life, or sitting on cold stones or wet seats. Avoid indigestible food and alcoholic drinks, eat plenty of ripe fruit; baked apples are very useful. Bathe with a good preparation of the American wych-lmzel, and this medicine may also be taken internally; but m some instances a surgical operation is necessary. Rheumatism is caused by exposure to wet and cold, also by nervous exhaustion and depression of bodily vigour. Ine • Takelife easyT use^UNLIGiiT SOAP.