THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. z?l body, but lie still retains bis senses. Paralysis frequently accompanies or follows apoplexy. The attack is difficult and dangerous to treat, and professional assistance should at once be sought, but the doctor may reside at some distance and much depends on prompt treatment. The head should be raised above the level of the body and cold-water bandages applied and kept cold. The feet and legs should be placed m a hot bath and weU rubbed when taken out; all clothes around the neck or throat should be loosened or even removed. Ergot may be given to check the bleeding and a motion of the bowels should be obtained as soon as possible. Attention should be given to premonitory symptoms, such a 3 excessive drowsiness, intense and throbbing headache, any- thing m short which suggests fulness of blood in the head Abstemiousness in diet should be sedulously cultivated attention paid to regular action of the bowels, and cold water bandages applied to the head. Asthma.- A complaint of the breathing, occurring in paroxysms and accompanied with tightness over the chest and by wheezing. The distress is often veiy great, as the patient anticipates suffocation every moment. It is a ^0n$1fated ?0I1'T>laint> and though alarming, yet it is not in itself fatal; it often leaves a cough and is sometimes accom- panied by bronchitis, disease of the lungs, or affection of the heart. _ The causes of asthma are somewhat obscure, some authorities stating that disorder of the stomach is at the root oi the matter, yet atmospheric changes have sometimes much to do with it. The immediate cause is said to be a spasmodic action of the air tubes of the lungs. Whether due much or little to stomachic derangement, asthmatic sufferers should be very careful about their diet: it must be simple, nutritious and very digestible ; the last meal should be digested before going to sleep. Should the stomach be full when an attack supervenes a spoonful of ipecacuanha wine as an emetic will give relief. Smoking well-dried stramonium leaves is a good remedy. Tha plant can be grown in any garden, and d^rX? ?n tn °vdmfJ t0bacC0 P^6 I stramonium cigarettes can also be bought. Fumes of burning nitre 12Z»T m,os\tfficaf0U8 whe* inlialed- I* bad attacks the application to the chest of a thick flannel wrung out of boihngwater, and sprinkled with turpentine is beneficial. Soapmakers to Her Majesty the Queen.