"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 390 immediate removal of all dirty linon or any woollen or cotton garments that the patient may have worn. Whooping Cough.—Commences like an ordinary cold or cough and after a few days the whooping (or backdraw as it is sometimes called) is heard following a fit of coughing ; or there may he little or no whooping ; often there is sickness. During the whooping stage, the patient should he kept indoors, except in sultry weather, and every precaution should he taken against the sufferer contracting bronchitis or pneumonia. The rooms therefore, while well ventilated, must he free from draught. A muslin curtain should be thrown over the bed at night and a piece of flannel may be swathed round the abdomen. A liniment made of one teaspoonf ul of oil of cloves, two teaspoonfuls of oil of amber, and two table- spoonfuls of camphorated oil well shaken up together in a bottle, should be rubbed into the pit of of the stomach and into the spine every night. Attention to diet is of great importance, the best food being broth, milk, eggs, curds-and- whey and barley water. In severe cases, some carbolic acid may be poured on a red hot shovel; the fumes in the air are believed to have the same effect as taking the patient to gas works, carbolic acid being one of the coal-tar products. Infection remains while the cough continues, and it^ may remain for months. Paroxysms are induced by violent exercise and screaming, and in some cases a child may vomit all its food. For such cases a doctor should be consulted, and in some instances complete change of air is necessary to ensure recovery. Wounds.—Injuries to the flesh, when the skin is broken are known as wounds. Prompt treatment is necessary, the first step being to stop the bleeding. Care should be taken to remove all dirt or Hair from the wound, and if any artery be ruptured, it must be tied by a thread of silk. If the bleeding be profuse, a handkerchief should be tied tightly above the injured part and a small rod passed beneath the handkerchief and turned round so as to constrict the limb as tightly as possible and press the arteries against the bone, and thus prevent the flow of blood through them. This may check the bleeding until a surgeon comes. _ As a rule the best plan, directly a wound has been caused, is to press No wear and tear