COOKERY RECIPES. 329 and water can be used, and does very well instead of pure milk. A piece of butter or dripping can be added at discretion. Parsley should be well washed, boiled in water for a few minutes, and chopped fine before, adding. Sauce for Puddings.—One full tablespoonful of condensed milk, 1 pint of boiling water; thicken with corn-flour as above. To this may be added (for plum pudding) if desired, rum, or brandy, or Marsala wine. For other puddings, chopped almonds, or preserved cherries or ginger—or any flavouring, such as vanilla—or lemon juice; but a glass of Marsala will be found to suit general tastes best, and it is good with any kind of pudding. No sugar is needed. A few drops of cochineal or spinach juice will colour it pink or green. VIII.—Eecipes for Invalids. Beef Tea.—One pound of beef (weighed without fat, bone or skin), 1 pint of cold water. Mince the beef and place it in a jar with the water. Stand the jar, covered closely, in the oven, which must -be only very moderately hot, or into a pot of cold water, which should be gradually brought to a simmer, and allowed to simmer round the jar from two to four hours or more. The beef tea must never boil. An egg whisked, or milk, or strong gruel added to beef tea makes it nourishing, or the beef tea may be made with the water in which haricot beans have been boiled. Plain beef .tea is only a stimulant. Chicken Tea.—Chop either a whole fowl, or a joint of one, email, put it in a jar, without water, cover closely and cook as directed above. The resulting juice will be small in quantity but of concentrated strength, and excellent for a sick person.' \ Arrowroot.—Blend a dessertspoonful of arrowroot smooth m cold water, pour this into £ pint of boiling water or milk stir while boiling for three minutes. May be thinned with milk or wine or brandy added. Gruel.—Mix well 2 tablespoonfuls of coarse oatmeal With £ pmt of milk (or water), strain, not through a sieve but through a strainer, into a saucepan, place on fire and stir frequently, boiling for about fifteen minutes. Add salt or sugar to taste. washed with SUNLIGHT SOAP.