NOTES ON GOOD BREEDING. 307 for the sake of effectiveness. At Homes have of late become a very favourite method of receiving frier is, possibly because they afford a wider latitude of choice in the entertainment provided than any other reception. At an "At Home" a hostess may simply remain in her drawing-room on specified days, when the time may be passed pleasantly in conversation, and light refreshments, such as tea and light bread-and-butter or cake, may be offered. Should there be a formal invitation to the " At Home," however, the sort of amusement pro- vided will be placed on the cards of invitation, and of course, more elaborate preparations must be made to entertain the guests. Sometimes afternoon " At Homes" are called Kettledrums, and they are really informal tea-parties, held between the hours of four and seven. Tea and light refresh- ments are served, and servants wait on the visitors. Morning dress is worn, ladies wear their bonnets, and gentlemen may take their hats with them into the drawing-room. The idea is that guests enter and leave at their convenience, and that the whole is a pleasant and unceremonious method of seeing friends. Formal introductions are not considered necessary except among very exclusive people; nevertheless, the host and hostess should make a point of introducing desirable acquaintances to one another and must do their best to put everybody at their ease. Many hosts and hostesses seek to attract celebrities of some kind or other to their assemblies. General Hints.—Do not introduce people to each other if you have any cause for supposing that the introduction may not be mutually agreeable. There is no need for a lady to bow to a gentleman who has been her partner at a dance unless she wishes to do so. When a gentleman is introduced to a lady at a dance he should always at once ask her for the pleasure of a dance, and, unless she does not intend to dance, ehe is bound to accept. A lady should not dance more than two or three times in one evening with the same gentleman unless she is engaged to be married to him. A young lady should never accept presents (unless it mav be flowers or bonbons) from a gentleman unless she "is engaged % it mamed to him- When engagements are broken on all letters and presents should be returned on both sides.