" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP 2g5 of eggs, the price varies so much that it is difficult to give a decided opinion; perhaps the best guide is this : they cease to be really economical when they cost over a penny each. Milk is one of the first of foods. We do not mean because it is food taken first by the young, but because it# is the^ most nutritious, and if purchasable at a reasonable price it is the cheapest food you can buy. In the Practical Dietary, Dr. Edward Smith states that a pint of new milk contains 546 grains of carbon and 43 grains of nitrogen; and a pint of skim milk—i.e., with the cream "skimmed" off for butter, 437 grains of carbon, and 43 grains of nitrogen. Thus the skim-milk, which is much cheaper than the new _ milk, is almost if not quite as valuable from a nourishing point of view as the new milk, and as Hassell says, the lo~i o; :rbaa may be made up by adding sugar. Hot milk, the late S.- Benjamin Ward Eichardson told the present writer, formed the best stimulant. It should not be boiled—but if a cup of milk be put into an oven or heated on a hob and taken in sips, it will stimulate and restore the jaded frame better than anything else. Once again we say, pure milk is the most nutritious of all foods ; and no true economy can be gained by cutting down a milk supply ; buy skim-milk and add sugar if you like, but a pennyworth of milk saved is not a penny gained. A stupid prejudice may prevail with some people against milk as an article of diet for adults, because it is the food of the young, but it is the merest prejudice. Chemical analysis shows that milk is as good for the adult as for the young ; the point is, of course, that the adult in good health requires his due amount of solid food as well. But do not be misled by the stupid remark that "Milk is food for babes as though it was food for no one else. The stalwart High- lander with his diet of milk and oat cakes puts that statement to shame. Milk, of course, can be used in a great variety of ways, in addition to simply adding it to tea or coffee. It can be thickened with flour and eggs, boiled with cocoa, and made with rice into pudding (aw "Cookery '),andm every guise it is thoroughly good food. In your household economy, therefore, give due place to milk, and rest assured that if you get it pure, and at a reasonable price, it is among the best and most economical of foods. Skim milk that is honestly sold as such, and not watered or adulterated m any