453 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. Englishman followed closely at his heels. ' Every now and then the passage bifurcated, but Burger was evidently following some secret marks of his own, for he neither stopped nor hesitated. Everywhere along the walls, packed like the berths upon an emigrant ship, lay the Christians of old Eome. The yellow light flickered over the shrivelled features of the mummies, and gleamed upon rounded skulls and long, white armbones crossed over fleshless chests. And everywhere as he passed Kennedy looked with wistful eyes upon inscriptions, funeral vessels, pictures, vestments, utensils, all lying as pious hands had placed them so many centuries ago. It was apparent to him even in those hurried, passing glances that this was the earliest and finest of the catacombs, containing such a storehouse of Eoman remains as had never before come at one time under the observation of the student. " What would happen if the light went out ? " he asked, as they hurried onwards. "I have a spare candle and a box of matches in my pocket. By the way, Kennedy, have you any matches ? " " No, you had better give me some." " Oh, that is all right. There is no chance of our separating." " How far are we going ? It seems to me that we have walked at least a quarter of a mile." " More than that, I think. There is really no limit to the tombs—at least I have never been able to find any. This is a very difficult place, so I think that I will use our ball of string." He fastened one end of it to a projecting stone and he carried the coil in the breast of his coat, paying it out as he advanced. Kennedy saw that it was no unnecessary precaution, for the passages had become more complex and tortuous than ever, with a perfect network of intersecting corridors.. But these all ended in one large circular hall with a square pedestal of tufa topped with a slab of marble at one end of it. " By Jove !" cried Kennedy in an ecstaey, as Burger swung his lantern over the marble. "It is a Christian SUNLIGHT SOAP does its work