GEOGRAPHY. 153 <5eo{jrapb\\ EVENTS OF 1896-7. The great event has been the return of Dr. Nansen, the Norwegian explorer, from his researches in the Arctic Eegions and the foreshadowing which he and others have given of future enterprises in the same fascinating and difficult country; He started June, 1893, in the Fram, a vessel specially constructed to withstand the ice, and on August 13th, 1896, he was brought back to Vardo in the Windward, of the Jackson-Harmsworth expedition; He had met Mr. Jackson unexpectedly on June 17th, 1896, on an ice-floe south-east of Cape Flora. He had lost touch with the Fram, and this dramatic meeting with another explorer will rank in history with the meeting of Mr. Stanley and Dr. Livingstone in the wilds of Africa. Dr. Nansen's experiences had (briefly) been these:—The Fram left the Strait of Yvgor August 3rd, 1893, and reached the Olenek September 15th, 1893. Soon after the ship became fast in the ice and drifted with the current elowly to the north-west. This was what Nansen had expected. On March 14th, 1895, he left the ship to drift on, and with his lieutenant Johansen and dogs and kayaks set forward on the ice. Progress was most difficult; several dogs had to be killed, but the intrepid explorers reached 86 degrees 14 north latitude, i.e., about 200 miles nearer to the mysterious and tantalising North Pole than anyone else has ever reached—so far as is known. Looking north, Nansen and his companion could see nothing but eternal ice and no sign of land. They came back to Franz-Josef Land, and after encountering great hardships built a hut at the end ol August for the winter, and lived on bear's flesh chiefly. In March, 1896, they began to cross the ice to Spitzbergen and finally met Mr: Jackson, as related. Mr. Jackson brought them home in the Windward. The Fram drifted, as Nansen had expected, for some time; but at length, about the beginning of March, 1896, remained stationary, and so continued till July, 1896, when a passage was forced through the ice and the water on the north oi SUNLIGHT SOAP you find the best.