280 "SUNLIGHT'1 YEAR-BOOK. food may be freshly-cut grass, or lettuce or cabbage leaves. Other points to be noted are : Hatch out chickens early, and also arrange hatchings so that pullets will come on to lay at Christmas-time when eggs are perhaps most valuable. The House should be as spacious as possible, warm and dry, yet well-ventilated. Warmth is an important factor in causing hens to lay eggs. Cold and wet are most pernicious to them. The house should be sheltered from the north and east and if possible face the south. It should also be fre- quently cleaned ; the droppings of poultry make good manure. An inner door of wire netting may be made so that during the day the boarded door may be open and light and air and sunshine admitted to the house. The roosting perches should not be placed too high. Particular attention must be paid to the roof to see that it is watertight and the floor dry. The Run should also be kept scrupulously clean, and with this purpose, should be frequently dug oyer and the surface soil sometimes renewed. Part of it may be covered so that the fowls have a shelter in case of rain. Under the shelter also mav be placed their sand or dust bath, and a few heaps of ashes or coarse sand in which they dust themselves and so cleanse their skin and feathers. Sitting Hens and the Raising of Chickens.—If possible endeavour to procure a few sittings of eggs early m Febru- ary or early in March. Chickens so reared will, of course, require much care, but you will reap a reward in getting early birds If you cannot possibly procure a broody hen so early you may try an incubator. Some poultry breeders are using incubators to a remarkable degree, and any firm supplying one S send full directions for its use On the other hand it is saTd by some authorities that a hen may be induced to sit at any time by placing her in a comparatively small covered basket in a dark room, keeping her warm and feed- ing her on food such as bread soaked in ^"^f UP fresh meat, raw liver, or a warm mash of oatmeal potatoes and milk, 'in selecting eggs for sitting ^7 Bhould not be more than a fortnight old, but should in fact be as fiesk as Tssible Furtherf they should be all about the same fresh- ness so that they will hatch out about the same fame Eemember, that the older the egg the weaker as a rule will be the chicken. When SUNLIGHT SOAP is used