194 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP is made in a special manner latter, Mr, Kobert Lowe, afterwards Lord Sherbrooke, used to contribute. Since tbose days the progress^ has been rapid, and there are now a vast number of local journals as well as the great morning dailies of large and general circula- tion. In Yictoria, the first paper in Melbourne Was the " Melbourne Advertiser," issued Jan. 1st, 1838. At Adelaide are the « Advertiser" (1858), the "Kegister" (1836), the " Express " (1863), the " Observer " (1843), &c. The country districts are well supplied. Similar remarks apply to the newspapers of other Australasian Colonies—Queensland, Tasmania, Western Australia, and New .Zealand. Among them are the<£ Brisbane Courier " (1846), " The Eockhampton Morning Bulletin," the "West Australian," published at Perth, and the " Daily News." In New Zealand are, among many others, the "New Zealand Times," the "Otago Daily Times," and the "New Zealand Herald," while in Tasmania the "Hobart Mercury" is probably the leading paper; the u Tasffianian News " is the evening paper. India. Newspaper enterprise is also to the fore in India. There are a large number of Anglo-Indian journals, among the chief dailies being the "Englishman," the "Statesman," the "Indian Daily News," the "Pioneer," &c. In addition a large native press has arisen, but the circulation of some "journals " scarcely rises beyond a thousand copies. South Africa. . The Press had its early struggles here, as in other places; but it had, perhaps, special difficulties. The Dutch and English disliked each other—to uso no stronger word—and the natives disliked both. But the Press has triumphed, and there are now a large number of daily and other papers issued. The "Graham's Town Journal" was, perhaps, the first Cape paper, founded about 1820, and is now the oldest English paper in South Africa. The " Cape Argus,' founded 1857, is another of the chief journals, also the "Cape Times, 1876. Natal, the Transvaal, &c, have aU now newspapers, many, of course, being local. The " Moemfontem Express is bi-lingual, Buluwayo has three papers already, one of which is the " Matabele Times." _____