THE REARING OF CATTLE, 393 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Kimberley, 1892. Pigs.—The Berkshire is perhaps the best breed of all the English varieties. The improved Berkshire is fine skinned and short boned, and has a smaller head and ears than the old Berkshire. There are, however, many crosses and varieties. The cross between the Berkshire and the Hamp- shire hog has produced a hardy and easily fattened animal that has proved very useful. Pigs may be profitably managed in several ways. They may be turned out to feed, but it must be remembered that if kept in the sty their manure accumulates, and is of great value. Sows are capable of bearing young pigs at nine months old, and can bear two litters a year. A fortnight after birth of the young the sow may be allowed to leave the sty, and when the little pigs are strong enough they may accom- pany her. About the age of tfer^e weeks is a good time, to kill sucking pigs, and the sow should not be allowed to suckle more than eight or nine little pigs. When weaned —that is, when six weeks or two months old—they should be fed with warm skim-milk and meal, and will soon learn to be independent, but may be permitted to take maternal milk twice a day at first, and then once a day. Now comes the feeding and fattening, and with a little care and attention, perhaps, no animal can be made more profitable. Barley meal made with water into a thin paste is the best food for fattening, but it is expensive. Grass, sow thistle, bad potatoes, hedge trimmings, nettles, weeds, grass mowings, and all kinds of things can be turned into the pigsty, but it is a mistake to give too much food at once, as the pigs tread it down into the dirt. To fatten pigs begin by giving a few boiled potatoes, in addition to their ordinary diet, and then lead on to barley meal; but pigs do not, as a rule, fatten well until they are from twelve to fifteen months. Acorns form exceedingly good food in the autumn, and the best time for turning out pigs is after harvest. Berkshire Pig.