370 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. be bought at a chemist's. One teaspoonful of the oil and 7 or 8 drops of the iron in half a wineglass of water, but not more, may be taken three times a day directly after meals. Do not exceed this dose. The easiest way is to dip a spoon in boiling water, and put the dose into the hot spoon, off which it slips easily. Angina Pectoris.—Severe pains in the chest with feeling as of death coming on through suffocation, and arising after exertion. The anguish and dread suffered by the patient are extreme; the complaint is associated with disease of the heart in some form or other. A competent medical man should be consulted, but in general habits of life all excesses should be absolutely avoided, also excitement of the mind, or any over-exertiun of the body; hypodermic injections of morphine are sometimes given to relieve the pain, also ether or chloroform is inhaled; while the inhalation of nitrite of amyl in some cases acts almost like a charm. The complaint is however far too serious for amateur treatment. Carry out the doctor',s directions implicitly and preserve absolute calm- ness—though not stagnation—of mind and body. Aphonia.—Loss of voice. Usually results from bad con- dition of the throat and larynx as in ulceration, or inflammation of the vocal chords. Exposure to severe cold and sore throat cause some people to lose their voice. A mustard plaster over the throat, also the inhalation of steam, are useful remedies, while the application of a solution of nitrate of silver to the vocal chords, should they be inflamed or ulcerated, is recommended, but this remedy must be applied by a medical man. Aphonia sometimes arises from over-straining the voice. Among the remedies are rest and bathing the throat in cold water, afterwards briskly rubbing it to pro- mote a glow and strengthen it. {See also Sore Throat.) Apoplexy. —A rush of blood to the head, with a great pressure on the brain, producing insensibility as a consequence; or a blood vessel in the head may burst and blood overflow on the brain. A patient sometimes falls suddenly, and becomes unconscious, the face is flushed, breathing heavy, pulse slow; or the attack may be more gradual, the patient sinking slowly into a state of insensibility and never rallying. Once more, the patient may suddenly lose the power of speech and also power on one side ot me "IsUNUGHT SOAPT