215 SCIENTIFIC. copper brush, which glides along the rail as the train proceeds. For underground lines, where no persons are likely to stray on to the rails, this system is no doubt suitable and valuable; but for street or road tramways it would not be safe. The electricity on the conducting rail would be so strong as to be dangerous like a flash of lightning. What is called, therefore, the overhead system, is frequently adopted. In this method the conducting line runs on high standards, like telegraph poles and lines, and a rod projecting from the car presses lightly with a small wheel against the line and "takes off" the electricity to the motor on the car as it passes along. There are noW many tramway lines in Europe worked by electricity, and substantially, all are on this sj^stem. In the United States there are some thousands of miles of electrically worked tramway lines. Electricity can be stored in accumulators and carried in the car without any conducting lines or rails, but the accumulators are heavy. When the electricity can be obtained cheaply the cost of electric traction is less than that of horse-power. "Chaining Niagara." This leads us to notice the great development going on in the use of waterfalls and heads of water for the production of electric power. The greatest instance of this is the utilisation of Niagara Falls, the works at which have steadily proceeded. l)uring 1897 electric current obtained at Niagara Falls was sent to Buffalo—some twenty-six miles distant— for purposes of lighting, for the telephone, and for supplying power to work machinery. The electricity is sent on lines raised on poles, placed 100 feet apart, the land on which the poles are fixed being carefully fenced. The poles carry three cross pieces, these pieces bearing the wires for conducting the electricity. Several new water wheels and electricity gene- rators have also been placed by the Falls and quite an array of factories is growing up in the neighbourhood to take advantage of the cheap electric power being supplied. It may be stated briefly that the power is obtained by turning off some of the water above the Falls into an artificial channel which in its fall and flow drives a number of turbines or water wheels, which operate the electricity producers. Scientific men in different parts of the world have been deans clothes and almost anything else,