SPORTS AND PASTIMES. was won-by Love Wisely. The Princess of "Wales' Stakes fell to St. Frusquin, Persimmon being second, and Regret third. St. Frusquin also carried off the Eclipse Stakes, for which Regret was second, and Troon third; so that it may be said that he and Persimmon were the two most successful horses of the year. The 1897 season opened with the Lincolnshire Handicap, won on March 23rd by the favourite, Wink6e!d's Pride, Funny Boat being second, and Bridegroom third. Another favourite, Manifesto, won- the Liverpool Grand National, Filbert (a 100 to 1 chance) being second, and Ford of Fyne third. On the following d z the Liverpool Spring Cup was won by Green Lawn, from St. Jar ath and Amphi-1 damas. The Northamptonshire Stares fell to Telescope, Posterity being second, and Ampbidamas again third. At the Epsom Spring- Meeting, the Great Metropolitan was won by Soliman, from Glentilt and Hattie, the City and Suburban being secured by Balsamo, who- was followed by Bay Roe aid and La Sagesse. The Two Thousand Guineas was won by Galtee More, Velasquez being second, and Minstrel third. The winner of the One Thousand Guineas was Chelandry, Galatia second, and Goletta third. The Chester Cup- was captured by Count Schomberg, who won from Piety and Shaddock. The Kempton Park Jubilee Stakes fell to Clwyd, who was followed by Kilcock and Victor Wild. Galtee More won the Newmarket Stakes, Berzak being second, and Frisson third. The Great Northern Handicap was secured by Laughing Girl, from "Unseen and Dolls, while the Somersetshire Stakes fell to Tender and True, Gribou being second, and Daublet third. For the Derby Galtee More was a warm favourite, and justified'his position by an easy two lengths win. But for the Oaks the favourite, Chelandry, who started at 5 to 2 on, was beaten by three lengths by Limasol (a 100 to 8 chance); Fortalice-^ was third, four lengths further behind. First. 1891 Common 1892 Sir Hugo 1893 Isinglass 1894 LadaB 1895 Sir Visto 1896 Persimmon 1897 Galtee More 1891 Mimi 1892 La Fleche 1893 Mrs. Butterwick 1894 Amiable 1895 La Sagesse 1896 Canterbury Pilgrim 1897 Limasol The Derby. Second. Gouverneur La Fleche Ravensbury Matchbox Curzon St. Frusquin Velasquez The Oaks. Corstorphine The Smew Tressure Sweet Duchess Galeottia Thais Chelandry Third. Martenhurst Bucentaur Raeburn Beminder Kirkconnel Earwig History Lady Primrose Lady Hermit Cypria Saraccio Penkridge Proposition Fortalice for the sake of quality.