COMMERCIAL. 253 the largest soap works in the world. industries, it is estimated, enjoyed increases of wages in the earlier part of the year, such, increases being, on an average, from 8d. to lOJd. per week; but some had much more than this sum. Over 4,000 workpeople suffered decreases, these being in the mining and quarrying industries, and also in weav- ing, dyeing, &c, in a certain town. Hours of employment have also been shortened in some cases. Thus, from May 1st the hours of the bricklayers of Wolverhampton and district were reduced from 50J to 48 in a full week, exclusive of overtime. Again, from the same date, the hours of the carpenters and joiners of Eochdale, for a full week, exclusive of overtime, were reduced from 43^ to 41. The North Wales Quarry Dispute. One of the most notable events was the unhappy dispute between Lord Penrhyn and the quarrymen and others engaged at his slate quarries, Bethesda, North Wales. During the whole of October, 1896, this dispute was in progress, and lasted for months afterwards. The causes, which are somewhat complicated, may thus be summarised :—For some time dissatisfaction had been expressed by the men regarding certain of their conditions of employment. Much of the work was conducted on the bargain system; thus the quarrying was let for a month at a time in certain parts of the quarry to a "crew" of usually three "partners," who sometimes employed a "journeyman." The bargain price varied according to the advantages or difficulties of getting the slate in the particular part of the quarry taken, the variations in the bargain price being thought to meet these differences of advantage or disadvantage. Further, the basis of the bargains was a price list adopted some years ago, greater or lesser additions being made to the list, and known as pound- age. Now, one cause of dissatisfaction arose with regard to the a Eybelwyr," or workers who did not come into this bargain system, as, for instance, men who were not capable of taking work on that system, or for whom a "bargain" could not be found, and boys who were learning the work. There were, it is said, 278 men and 260 boys in the Eybelwyr. tT° fTn desired a dimi™tion of these numbers, and that they should come into the bargain system; also that apprentices should receive a poundage of ten shillings.