" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. The Jackson=Harmsworth Arctic Expedition: This expedition has spent three winters in Franz-Josef Land, having made a settlement at Elm-wood, near to Cape Mora. Thence the members venture forth in the summer to explore and map out the regions round about. Mr. Jackson lias found an open sea which he thinks extends almost to the Pole, and has named the water Queen "Victoria Sea; land had previously been supposed to extend here. He was hoping in the summer of 1897 to sail up this sea, and by the •time these lines are before the public it is to be hoped he will liave returned safely to his winter quarters, and maybe have ■solved the mystery of the North Pole—if there be one. Other Explorations. Sir Martin Conway has explored the chief island of the Spitzbergen Group, crossing it with much difficulty, and •finding the centre broken and stony, and drifted with deep narrow valleys full of snow. There are also large glaciers. Mr. A. Trevor-Battye was of the party. Lieut. Peary has again been to Boudon Bay to complete ^ethnological collections. As to explorations in the Antartic regions, various proposals have been made by the English, an American, and a Belgian. In Asia, the source of the river Irrawaddy has been found by Prince Henry of Orleans' expedition to be three head-streams in the mountains south of Thibet. The 1' Upper Irrawaddy,'5 Prince Henry declares, is really the upper Salwin. These discoveries he made in a journey in 1896 from Indo-China to Assam, in the course of which he saw mountains more than 13,000 feet high. In the early part of 1897, Miss Mary H. Kingsley published a volume of her travels in West Africa, having visited French Congo, the Cameroons, &c. She found man- grove swamps being gradually transformed into dry land and tropical forests where the gorilla still wanders.. A curious point is that she declared previous travellers had named ■severalplaces with different native words, meaning "I don't know." Concerning Ehodesia the Hon. A. Wilmot has issued a volume tracing the history of Mashonaland, in the ■aspect of Mr. Theodore Bent's Exploration and his own If you wish your linen to be as white as snow,