38a " SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. experienced, fomentations—flannels wrung out of boiling Water—may be placed over the stomach and afford relief. Inflammation of the Eyes.—A preparation of the ^American wych-hazel used in warm water will often be found an admirable lotion, reducing the imflammation and allaying pain. Gently syringing the eye with warm water will remove foreign bodies, or a camel's hair pencil may be used. Stye on the eye is really a little boil and should be poulticed with warm bread and water; the eye should be rested and protected from light by a shade. There are many affections of the eye and for all but the simplest the help ot a doctor should be sought. Indigestion.—Also called dyspepsia. Appears m many forms and from various causes. Sometimes excess of iood causes it; and sometimes an insufficiency of food, when the digestive organs become weakened. A frequent cause is msuni- cient mastication of food. Consequently, the great golden rule for avoiding indigestion is to masticate your food thoroughly. Eat slowly and reduce the food in your mouth to a complete pulp. A useful medicine is bi-carbonate of soda and water taken occasionally after meals, or bismuth, or charcoal lozen- ges • dilute hydro-chloric acid has been recommended; buy I few pennyworth and take 15 drops in a wineglass of water half an hour before meals, three times daily. This may be continued for a week, and the treatment then suspended for a few days. One or two teaspoonfuls of glycerine (Levers) oc- cJionally after meals is said to be very useful, .*nd sufferers from indigestion should sweeten their tea, coffee and food w?th glycerine instead of sugar. Nux vomica pilules form also a very good remedy for indigestion m adding strong h and tone ^ the digestive organs The complaint should never be neglected. It causes headache, nervousness, rm- Sty poof blood, nausea, biliousness,&c and when the stomach gets out of order the body too often follows suit , Infiuenza.-An epidemic disease, ^aot^ft^r f££{ chilliness, heartache, and depression. ^e 'fQ°^m& 'hot barie^^ lusttalinTt^ S0AP