293 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Ottawa, 1893. Sheep.—The breeds of English sheep have been much im^ proved, and Leicesters, or, as they are sometimes termed, New Leicesters, are very famous. The mutton is of good quality, and may be fattened at an early age, while the sheep produce a satisfactory weight of flesh for a comparatively small quantity of food. Their wool is rather between the long wool and the short wool varieties, which are the two main divisions of sheep in Great Britain; but the Leicesters are generally classed with the long wool breeds, as are also the Komneys and the Cotswolds, among others; moreover, none of these are horned. Among the short wool varieties are the well- known Southdown, the Exmoor and Dartmoor, which are also horned, the Welsh Mountain, the Cheviot, &c. The Leicesters have risen to a very high esteem, probably because they are likely to be the most profitable. The Southdowns are also a celebrated race ; they take their name from the low range of hills of that name in Sussex and Hampshire. Feeding on the short grass of these downs the sheep are, to an extent, "mountain" sheep, yet they become fit for killing at from 15 months to two years of age. The Southdowns have, it is said, nearly superseded the Hamp- shire and the Berkshire breeds, and in fact, answer well all over the south. Ewes generally give birth to their lambs between their second and fifth years ; they should not have lambs after their fifth year ; but the successful breeding of sheep depends largely upon the pasture; and after lambing the point to be aimed at should be rapid and continuous pro- Southdown Ewe. gress. Turnips, grass, chaffed straw, and pea haulm form good food. Dry food, such as the latter, may be given with turnips to counteract their watery character; straw chaff may also be given with mangolds, which may then be used at all seasons. Small quantities of linseed cake, bran, or grain may be given to vary the roots, promote health and further fattening.