"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 350 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Lyons, 1894. boiling) over it, stirring all the time, until a transparent jelly is formed. Be careful to pour the boiling water on slowly, as, if too much is added, the starch will be too thin. The amount of starch made will depend on the number of things to be starched. Boiled starch can be used hot or cold, but must not be kept too long, or it will become watery. This recipe is for a small quantiy. Cold Starch.—One tablespoonful of starch, mixed with about half a pint of cold water, which should be added gradually, blending the starch with the back of a spoon, till the mixture is of the consistence of cream, then stir a piece of Sunlight Soap round and round in the starch several times. Cold starch is best made with soft water, or water softened by the addition of half a spoonful of powdered borax (which has been previously dissolved in two tablespoonfuls oj boiling water), to the half pint of water. The use of a little Sunlight Soap rubbed into the starch is a very great improvement upon the old plan of using turpentine to prevent the starch sticking to the iron. Turpentine makes the linen yellow, unless it is used with the greatest care, and imparts a very unpleasant smell, and, as turpentine is highly inflammable, it is much safer out of the laundry. To Starch Shirts, Cuffs, Collars.—These things must, be perfectly clean and quite dry before they are put into the starch. Prepare cold starch, as directed above, in a clean basin. The starch must be as thick as cream, but not lumpy, and should be well stirred up from the bottom of the basin; dip the things into it, and well rub and soak them m the starch for a few seconds, squeeze them out, and roll up tightly in a clean cloth. They must then be left for about an hour, so that the starch may soak in. In starching < shirts, only the cuffs, collars, and fronts are dipped in this way, not the bodv of the shirt. _ . , ™ To Starch Table-Linen, Muslins, &c—For these boiled, starch should be used. It should not be stiff enough to stick, firmly to the fingers. Dip the things into it, squeeze them, pull them straight, and roll in a dry cloth. Muslins, lace and fine things must first be shaken, and clapped between the hands before being roUed in the cloth. They must always- Kid before they are ironed, then sprinkled with clean Water, rolled in a clean cloth, and, if possible, mangled^