199 THE ART OF LETTER-WRITING. the largest demand in the world. style should be "Dear Sir" or ''•Dear Madam/' A further stage of knowledge or intimacy may "be "My Dear Sir " or " My Dear Madam." Further still we get on to " My Dear Mr. Smith " or simply " Dear Mr. Smith," and the same for ladies if the strength of the acquaintance should warrant it; and further still, in the case of gentlemen, you may say " My Dear Smith." For relatives, or in cases of very in- timate acquaintance, the Christian name may "be employed, as "My Dear Frank." For titled Personages certain forms of address are considered right and proper, and a gentleman or lady should seek to employ them. Thus:—■ To the Queen. Address: " To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty," or, " To Her Most Gracious Majesty Queen Victoria." Commence, "May it please your Majesty [or Madam]," and say " your Majesty " instead of " you " in the letter, and conclude, "I remain, Madam, with profound veneration, your Majesty's moBt faithful subject and dutiful servant." The Prince or Princess of Wales and other Princes of the Blood-Royal. Address: "To his [or her] Eoyal Highness the Prince [or Princess] of Wales." Commence, "Sir, or Madam," or " May it please your Eoyal Highness." Use "Tour Eoyal Highness" instead of "you," and conclude, "I remain, with greatest respect, your Eoyal Highness's most dutiful and most obedient humble servant." Pule or Puchess. Address : "To His [or Her] Grace the Duke [Duchess] of Commence, " My Lord Duke, or Madam"; use the words "your Grace" instead of "you," and conclude, " I have the honour to be your Grace's most obedient servant, ." Duke's eldest son takes second title of his father, other children as "Lord Ernest ." " The Lady Sarah ." Archbishop. Address: "To His Grace the Archbishop of ." Commence, " My Lord Archbishop," and use the words "your Grace" instead of "you." The wife of an Archbishop is addressed as an untitled lady. Baron or Baroness. Address: "To the Eight Hon. Lord ," and in other particulars as an Earl and Countess.