HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. 33* USEFUL HOUSEHOLD RECIPES. To Clean Silver and Electro=plate.—Wash with Sun- light Soap daily, and polish, with, a leather; plate-powder will not be needed. If a coarse soap be employed, the free alkali will do much damage, as it corrodes all metals. To Clean Mackintosh Bed=sheeting.—The Lady Super- intendent of a Children's Convalescent Home writes:—" Dip the sheet in water. Bub Lifebuoy Soap lightly all over it. Eoll the sheet up and place in water for a while. After a little lapse of time remove and swill well with clean water.' The dirt is completely removed, without labour or injury to the cloth." To Clean and Restore Painted Walls and Woodwork. —Take a pailful of tepid water, two sponges, and a tablet of Sunlight Soap. Apply the soap to the painted wall or woodwork with one sponge, and remove the soap and dirt with the other sponge; rinse the latter frequently, and change the water often. Some soaps are likely to be too highly chemicalled to use on paint. Sunlight Soap is mild, but very effective. The Journal of Decorative Art writes (March, 1893)—"Were Sunlight Soap more generally used we feel convinced that we, as a trade, should have less work, for it is admirably adapted for washing paint, and as it contains no free alkali does not take off the surface of the paint together with the dirt." To Clean, or Wash, a Carpet.—Boil or dissolve Sunlight Soap m the proportion of half a tablet to four quarts of water, and when cooled so as to be just comfortably hot to the hand, wash the carpet well from seam to seam, only washing about ©ne yard at a time, and using a "loofah," a sort of rough washing-glove, which may be purchased at a chemist s. Then rmse quickly and thoroughly with clean, soft water (rain water if possible), rub dry with a clean cloth, then proceed with the next yard of carpet. In this way the carpet will not be soaked, because it will be quickly dried ' and it is a very much better plan than washing the wholeV carpet first, and then trying to dry it. Should the carpet be nailed aown, and it is impossible or undesired to take it up and hang it out to dry, then as little water as possible must SUNLIGHT SOAP, largest sale in the world.