NOTES ON GOOD BREEDING. 303 for the sake of convenience. very desirous of being introduced to another, you may say, <( Mr. or Mrs. Smith desires to make your acquaintance, il you will allow me to introduce [or present] him." At largs parties, introductions, except by request, are not necessary. Nevertheless, persons are often supposed to be unconscious of the presence of a stranger unless they have been introduced. In essence there may be something very salutary about this :Tule, but it is absurd, if not positively ill-natured, to push it &o extremes. Thus, if a small party meet, as at dinner, it ■would become almost ill-natured, and consequently ill- mannered, to refrain from any remarks of general conversa- tion throughout the evening until you are formally introduced. It may be taken for granted that the guests are present by special invitation and are consequently suited for mutual acquaintance. Nevertheless, the acquaintance need not bo renewed unless equally desired, and persons who have met in tikis way may appear as complete strangers next day. So with Introductions at a Dance. They follow the same jule, and persons who have danced together need not renew ^acquaintance, or even recognise one another, unless they choose, ior unless closely acquainted with friends on either side. The option of recognition rests with the lady; if she chooses to bow to a former dancing partner, she may do so ; but in no ucase should the gentleman show recognition first. Acquaintanceship in Business Matters (Avoidance of the Cut Direct).—Similar rules prevail here also ; the mutual .acquaintance of persons who have met "on business" need Ibe carried no further; but if they meet afterwards, and cannot avoid seeing one another, a slight bow or recognition may be given, as courteous and to avoid a direct and palpable *' cut." Persons, however, of ordinary tact and good feeling should avoid the " cut direct" by not seeing the slight or .business acquaintance they may not wish to meet. Disparity of Age between Persons Introduced.— Should marked difference in age, or in social position, exist between persons who have been introduced, the person .-markedly older in years or superior in station should make the tost advances. Between apparent equals in age or position the lady makes the first advances; but should there be marked superiority of age or station, the gentleman does so. If the