"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. right consistency, and the mixture can "be used like whitewash. How to Furnish a Room Cheaply and Beautifully.— A good proportion for distemper is ten parts of whitening to one of coarse size, the colour being added when diluted with a little water, and of a consistency resembling cream. Distemper should be slightly warmed when used. Eemember too that distemper will dry on the walls several shades lighter in colour than it appears whilst wet. An admirable effect in colouring might be produced if you were to distemper your wall a shade of grey-blue, and the centre flat part of your ceiling with the same colour, making the cornice moulding biscuit colour. Fix all round the room a dado three or four feet high, of ordinary Indian matting, headed by a beading of split bamboo cane, which can be obtained at very little expense. # , The floor may then be painted all round m a deeper shade of blue, and well varnished over when dry, using the same colour for wood-work of the door, window sash, etc., or, if preferred, paint these latter a cream white, cover the centre of the floor with a square of deep crimson felt without pattern, and you wiU have, at trifling cost, a room that will always be a pleasure to use. . Such a room may be furnished with bamboo-cane chairs, and fitted with an overmantel and little book-shelves painted white, like the door and window sash, and the effect would be charming. A carpenter who understands the use of a lathe would make the overmantel and book-shelves, and you will m this way get them at much less cost than if you bought them already made, besides the advantage of having them according to your own design and fitted before- hand to the places in which they are to be finally fixed. Variety also can be obtained with a little forethought; for instead of the split bamboo beading, you might run a little shelf a few inches wide all round over the matting, and use it for holding ornaments or books. Also, if ™V°*ta£ to economise space, you might, instead of a set of shallow shelves, say seven inches wide, all lound the room, with doors to each compartment; these shelvescould be ued instead of an ordinary sideboard, ^ ^ to^up much less room; and if the doors were_panelkdjhe^ ~~ sunlighYsoapT