"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. younger or inferior ventures on the initiative, he or she must be prepared for a politely haughty rebuff. Slight Acquaintances, Cards of Condolence, &c.— Slight acquaintances may call occasionally, or leave cards periodically, in return for a similar civility. Thus, for instance, after a formal introduction, cards may be left usually within a week; the initiative to rest with those as before stated. Young unmarried ladies may have their names printed on their mother's visiting card, underneath their mother's name. Further, at death, illness, or any event affecting the welfare of a family, acquaintances may leave cards of sympathy, condolence, enquiries as to health, &c, or if the event should justify it, of congratulation. A message may be given to a servant at the door. If intimacy and circumstances permit, a personal visit may of course be made, to rejoice with those who do rejoice, or weep with those who weep. Cards turned down at the corner suggest that they have been brought by a servant, or that the visitor had no intention of crossing the threshold. Concerning the acknowledgment of cards, when persons are in sorrow, enquiry cards may be left daily without return of the compliment. But when the affliction has ended, or is terminating, cards acknowledging kind enquiries may be sent in return, and are held to indicate that the family is ready again to receive visitors. After a funeral, visitors, unless they may be very intimate, and their good feeling and genuine desire to sympathise and comfort dictate a visit, are not expected until a week has passed, except at the door, and slight acquaintances postpone their visits longer still. Complimentary visits at certain seasons may be paid, or cards, such as Christmas cards, may be left on superiors in age and station. If after acknowledgments of cards have been made, the visits or acquaintance of an individual is not desired, such acts of civility should cease. But allowance should be made for varied circumstances —as for instance, the occupation of a person, or the calls upon her time, &c, and a lady or gentleman should not be quick to take offence if every little rule of etiquette is not accurately observed. Dinners, Entertainments, &c— Invitations to dinner are sent in the name of the gentleman and lady, as, "Mr. and Mrs. Brown request the pleasure, etc.," but invitations to SUNLIGHT SOAP is made of pure materials