SPORTS AND PASTIMES. SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Paris, 1889. Spouts anb pastimes. ATHLETICS.—The year 1896 will long be remembered by reason' of the sudden and vigorous action taken by the Amateur Athletic Association against a number of the best men of the day, who had been proved guilty of asking and receiving expenses for competing at sports. Just before the decision of the Championships they suspended C. A. Bradley (100 yards champion and record holder), A. B. Downer (Scottish champion and record holder), F. E. Bacon (mile champion and record holder), G. Crossland (10 miles champion, winner of Northern and National Cross-Country Championships and record holler), and H. Watkins (Southern Counties Cross Country ex- Champion. Naturally this step gave rise to much discussion, but it is noteworthy that, sooner or later, each of these men has now joined the professional ranks ; and as their action has been followed by several other prominent ex-amateurs, professional running has largely benefited in consequence. Of course, with such men away and other champions either not competing or out of foriii, the Amateur Athletic Championships, held at Northampton on July 4th, had a very open appearance, though the quality of the performances suffered in most cases, a result greatly aided by the strong wind. Only three holders retained their titles. Godfrey Shaw, L.A.C,, won the Hurdles in 15f sec, with the wind behind him, which prevented his time being accepted as record. D. Horgan won the "Weight Putting with 43 ft. 5£ in., and W. J. Sturgess broke the record in the 4 miles walk, doing the distance in 28 min. 57§ sec. The remaining events resulted as follows:—100 yards, N. D. Morgan (Champion 1890) (lOf sec.); Quarter- mile, J. C. Meredith, Dublin University (52 sec.) j Half-mile, Lieut. W. A. de C. King, Royal Engineers and L.A.C. (2 min. U sec.) ; Mile, B. Lawford, S.L.H. (4 min. 314 sec.); Four Miles, H. Harrison, Manchester H. (20 min. 27f sec.); Two Miles Steeplechase, S. J. Robinson, Northampton A.A.C. (11 min. 25 sec.); Long Jump, C. E. H. Leggatt, United Hospitals and L.A.C. (23 ft. f in.); High Jnmp, M. O'Brien, Gaelic A.A. (5 ft. 11 in.) ; Throwing the Hammer, J. Flanagan, Gaelic A.A. (131 ft, 11 in.). Later in the month, A. G. Butler (United Hospitals and L.A.C.) beat the Half-mile Champion m the L.A.C. and United Hospitals Match, doing the distance just inside two minutes. But, as in the previous year, the most notable performances were accomplished by walkers. Thus, on September 26th, 1896, W. J. Sturgess, in a match with D. Fenton, broke the mile record, doing the distance in 6 min. 33f sec, while a week later (October 3rd), in a 15 miles handicap, he made new records from 9 to 14 miles inclusive, retiring after finishing the latter distance in 1 hr. 52 mm. 59$ Bee. E. Knott (S.L.H.) the 15 miles record holder, who retired in this race owing to indisposition, gave a glimpse of his real capacity in the S.L.H. Members' walk from Croydon to Godstone