ARCHITECTURAL. 235 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Jamaica, 1891, Hrcbitectural EVENTS OF 1896-7. Public interest in architectural events is usually very local in its character. It rarely finds much to concern it in any serious consideration of architectural progress in general. And yet it should be a matter of considerable importance to the public, seeing how much good architecture has to do with good health and the enhancement of the aesthetic quality of our streets and their architecture. One of the questions closely affecting the public in regard to architecture is the education of the architect. For some time past now the Eoyal Institute of British Architects, which is the representative society of the English "profession, has undertaken the work of an examining body, and has instituted preliminary, intermediate, and final examinations held periodically in London and certain provincial centres. This three-fold system has only lately come into regular operation, and, judging by the numbers availing themselves of the opportunity thus afforded of testing their theoretical and practical knowledge, the scheme may be said to have thoroughly answered the expectations of its founders. In 1896 no fewer than 165 candidates passed the preliminary examination, and were registered as probationers; 68 pro- bationers passed the intermediate examination and were registered as students ; whilst, of the 76 candidates examined in the final, 35 passed. There are now some 872 pro- bationers, and 798 students on the respective registers. In May, 1896, the Architectural Association celebrated the jubilee of its foundation. This association has always been particularly identified with the important question of archi- tectural education. Originally by evening classes, and latterly by the establishment of a curriculum, and the insti- tution of a largely extended teaching system, the Association has accomplished a great deal for the benefit of architectural students, and the promotion of an efficient standard of profes- sional education. One question of importance affecting the relationship of architects to the public is contained in a Bill introduced year