34o "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. spirit makes a much better composition. It may be used to varnish, unpainted wood. To Remove Tea, Wine, or Fruit Stains.—Fresh stains on linen or calico may easily be removed by steeping it in plenty of cold or tepid soft water, then put stained part while wet over a basin and cover with salt; after a few minutes pour hot water over it. If the stain is an old one, proceed as for old ink stains (see below). To prevent the stain spreading, use a basin only large enough to hold the stained part. To Remove Iron-Mould or Ink Stains from Linen.— If the ink stain is slight and quite fresh, soaking in muk for some time and then well rubbing with Sunlight Soap and cold water, and leaving to soak roUed up for twenty-four hours, will generally remove it. If, however, the stain has dried in, and is dee and of large ontent, proceed as follows. Put the stained part into a soup plate or dish, cover with salt and lemon-] uice mixed into a rather liquid paste. Leave it to soak in this for twenty-four hours or more, rinse in cold water; if stains are still visible repeat process, using fresh salt and lemon-]uice. Then rinse well, lather with plenty of Sunlight Soap and warm water, roll up tight in water, and wash out after twelve hours. The linen is not injured by this method, as destructive rubbing is avoided, and stains will be entirely removed. {Also see under " Laundry. ). To Remove Paint Marks on Clothing.-When fresh, these can easily be removed by rubbing with turpentine or paraffin applied with a bit of cloth. If they have dried on, rT w?th a mixture of equal parts of turpentine and pure alcohol, and clean off with benzine. To Clean Laces.-Cover an ordinary wine bottle with fine flannel, stitching it firmly round the bottle. Tack one end of the lace to the flannel, then roll it very smoothly^round the bottle, and tack down the other end, then cover-with_ a piece of very fine flannel or muslin. Now rab it «mt£ ^th a strone lather of Sunlight Soap, and, if the lace is very to rinse out the soap. iu.tuve oum „nueeze out the bottle two or threejimosjn^ " SUNLIGHT SOAP does its work