237 ARCHITECTURAL, SUNLIGHT SOAP, Gold Medal, Kimberley, 1892. and the settlement of this and the obtaining of a suitable (or unsuitable) design will not be likely to admit of any actual commencement of the work till 1898, if indeed then. The South Kensington Museum Buildings completion scheme, which was the subject of a competition amongst a selected few of our best-known architects, and resulted m the selection of a design by Messrs. Aston "Webb and Ingress Bell, still hangs fire. It has been proposed that the work should be undertaken as a memorial of the Queen's Diamond Jubilee, but no such commemoration can rid us of the national disgrace of having left them so long unfinished. Three important municipal public buildings were opened during the period covered by our notes. The first inaugura- ted were those at Bath, designed by Mr. J. M. Brydon, of London. The next were the Oxford Buildings, designed by Mr. H. T. Hare (London), and opened by the Prince of Wales. The third on the list were the Sheffield Municipal Buildings, designed by Mr. E. W. Mountford (London), and opened by Her Majesty the Queen. Edinburgh has had a munificent gift offered in the shape of a public hall, which is to cost its donor something like £100,000. Manchester, Edinburgh, and Newcastle-on-Tyne all have large building schemes on the way in connection with their respective infirmaries. Canterbury, Salisbury, and Peterborough Cathedrals have been in the hands of the restorers (or destroyers as some would have us call them) during the past eighteen months or so. Work on the West Front of Peterborough Cathedral was not commenced without much strong and indignant remon- strance from the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings, and other anti-restorers. "Whatever may be said for or against the course adopted at Peterborough by the architect, Mr. J. L. Pearson, R.A., and approved by the Dean and Chapter, there is no doubt at all but that architectural vandalism is still a power for mischief which has to be reckoned with. Artisans' dwellings schemes have been largely projected by Manchester, Saliord, Liverpool and other provincial cities, whilst the London County Council have also dabbled con- siderably in this kind of building speculation. The London County Council attempted to get a scheme