rtgo " SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. "SUNLIGHT SOAP is made in a twin bar volumes, issued in George Bell & Sons' new series of Hand- books of English Literature—viz., " The Age of Tennyson," by Professor Hugh Walker, and "The Age of Milton," by Messrs. Mullinger & Masterman. Miscellaneous. There remain several very interesting and valuable books to notice dealing with politics, industrial questions, natural history, and other topics, descriptive, informing, and worth reading. In the early spring six Oxford men sent forth a volume entitled " Essays in Liberalism," which showed that a genuine movement in favour of Liberalism has been pro- ceeding in the ancient University, but that there are those who draw a clear distinction between Liberalism aud Socialism. Connected with Labour questions also was Mr. Charles Booth's seventh volume on " London Labour and the London poor »_a monumental work, which forms a perfect store- house of facts on this important question, and will probably rank as one of the most complete and reliable authorities on the social condition of our time. ^ ■ Probably umsurpassed in its own particular department is Messrs. "Warne's " Favourite Flowers of Garden and Green- house," edited by Mr. Edward Step-who has become so well known as a popular writer on floriculture and botany, &c.-- and Mr. William Watson, of Kew Gardens This is probably flue most complete popular book in English on this attractive subject, and as it appeared in cheap weekly parts it has been within the reach of people with s ender purses Even the window gardeners of London will find valuable hints in it about the propagation and successful management ot their beloved plants. Numerous coloured plates add to ^attSL£. The work is completed in four voWs. Mr George Morley-whose «' Leafy Warwickshire has been wy popllar-prepared another volume on Warwickshire IntitlePdft In Russet Mantle Clad," which appeared about Midsummer, 1897, describing the rural scenery-and peasant life of the county ; while lovers of nature will find Mi. M. *» Stewart's ' Birds of Our Country" valuable and interesting. ItTwell illustrated by Mr. G. E. Lodge and other Additions have also been made during the year ^ U«* Bell to their Cathedral Series, "Rochester' and Oxfora