"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 342 THE LAUNDRY. It is Important to remember that different fabrics need different treatment. You should not wash a flannel shirt as you would a cotton sheet, if you wish your laundry work to be successful. All white goods (cottons and linens) are washed in tha same way with Sunlight Soap as follows :— Cotton and Linen Goods.—First soak them for several hours (twenty-four, if possible) in cold water, then wring them lightly out, have a tub of hot water ready, dip each article into it, then draw the article out on the wash board and rub the soap lightly but thoroughly all over, leaving no part unsoaped. Then as each article is soaped roll it up tightly and let it lie in the tub covered with water. If there are a large quantity of things of course more than one tub may be needed, and it must be remembered that table linen should not be washed in the same water as body linen, and that very dirty kitchen cloths should be washed last. ' Leave them lying rolled up in the tub under water for at least half-an-hour; but if they can be left for an hour or more it will be all the better. The soap will do the cleansing work while the things are lying quietly in the tubs. At the end of an hour or two the articles must be unrolled and rubbed lightly out on the wash board. The dirt mil come out idthout any trouble, as the Sunlight Soap has thoroughly loosened it. The things must be turned insula out and thoroughly soused and worked m the water, li tna water becomes very dirty before all the things m the tub are finished pour it off and add some clean hot water to tho tuo —but there is no need for any more soap or for washing through two suds (what is called by washerwomen seconding, or for scalding or boiling, but if there are any very dirty streaks, as at the neck, &c, rub some more soap on that; part, and roll up again for a tar minutes, washing that part carefully. When all tho things are finished wring them lightly, squeezing the soapy water out and rinse u£ thoroughly in another vessel of warm water. Remember i^. fre rinsing must bo thorough-if necessary in two-watei*— so ao thoroughly to clear away all the dirty suds. Then hang out to dry bjrthethickcst part, and wrong Eide out. "SUNLIGHT SOAP—an absolutely pure soap.