"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 311st ended and the people are trooping out into the snow. It is an English picture full of beauty and full of feeling. Mr. Boughton was elected to the vacant E.A. chair left by the election of Sir John Millais to the Presidency. The duties of Sir E. J. Poynter's new office as President hindered his work as artist, and he was represented in the Academy by two small pictures, both classical subjects, one, an illustration to the Odes of Horace, and a portrait of Mr. Sidney Colvin. Mr.'Tadema, R.A., has produced ano/her of his Boman pictures entitled " Wandering Moments," and Mr. Gow, E.A., another incident in the Life of Napoleon. Mr. Marks, E.A.., has been represented by the picture of an old taxidermist who has just stuffed a small kfeet very much to bis own content, and Mr. Ernest Crofts, E.A., has depicted, with much spirit, an attack on Hougoumont in the world- famous battle of Waterloo. Mr. Dendy Sadler's "Counter- pane/' Mr. Buugess's picture of peasant women at a mother's meeting in an English rural parish, Mr. Alfred East's depictions of French scenery, Mr. Cope's portraits—one a full length of the Duke of Cambridge for the United Service Club,—and Mr. Yeats's portrait of Mrs. Burnet have also been features in the picture production of the year. Many English artists also exhibited in the art section of the Belgian Exhibition. Though there were no extraordinarily striking pictures at the Boyal Society of British Artists W the -spring, there wals very much good and interesting work of a high average of merit. Mr. B. Greniniell Hutchinson sent " When Winds are Blowing/' telling of scant hope in the fisherman's cottage for the fisherman's return. Mr. Wyke Bayliss, the President, sent a picture of the Baptistry of Siena Cathedral, and Mr. ft. Hillyard Swin- stead a fine portrait of Miss Amy "Scar- borough. Mr. Edmund Fuller sent "In Tow"—a beautiful sea picture, in striking contrast to a work also s:a e. burne-jones. worthy of praise, Mr. Noble Barlow's tranquil « Dorset Meadows." Among other events connected, with Artmay be mentioned See smiling faces all around,