463 "SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNUGliTsOAP, Gold Medal, Lyons, 1894. conveyed by spouts from above. When cold, the sides of the boxes are opened, and the massive, smooth blocks of soap are cut by machinery into slabs. These are then cut into bars by curious machines worked each by two men. The final processes are the stamping, -wrapping, and packing. The stamping is very interesting. Some of it is done by machines, which receive the bars at one end and pour them out at the other in the familiar, neat double- tablet, and some is done by boys, who take each block off the little tramline running down the room, as already described, and putting it under a stamping machine, stamp each block and pass it to the girls who wrap and pack it. This is a very brief description of the way in which Sunlight and Lifebuoy Soaps are made, for Lifebuoy Soap is precisely the same as Sctnlight Soap, except that it is impregnated with a very large percentage of carbolic acid, so that it becomes a disinfecting soap of the highest class, as is proved by the testimony, after careful analysis, of Dr. Ka??l Enoch, of Hamburg. Foreign and Colonial Expansion. The soaps manufactured by Lever Brothers, Limited, are exported to aU parts of the North and South American Continents, to every country in Europe, to India, Burmah, and Ceylon, to Turkey-in-Europe, as well as Turkey-in-Asia, Persia, China, Arabia, Siam, Japan, the Straits Settlements, Egypt, Syria, every part of Africa, including the German and Portuguese Colonies on the Dark Continent, the Pacific, Canary, and Falkland Islands, Cyprus, Mauritius, Mozambique, New Zealand and Australia. The head office in the last-named Continent is in Sydney, and all the Australian Colonies are worked from there. There are offices in Toronto for the working of Canada, in New York for the working of the U.S.A., and in Hamburg, Brussels and Eotterdam, but every tablet of soap bo id m at this great array of countries is made in Port Sunlight, on the JlJr Mersey. The sight of the wrappers printed m thirty different languages would be interesting to a philologist but it is rather terrifying to the ignorant-a Sunlight Soap wrapper in Arabic is a sight surely worthy oi our progressive century! . -