"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 240 SUNLIGHT SOAP Decorated " periods. These latter brought Gothic architec- ture up to that point of richness and ornamentation which formed the culmination of its beauty. It then passed into what is termed the "Perpendicular" stage, which was the final phase of Gothic art, divisible into two stages—Early and Late. The Late stage was the final end of Gothic. It was at this stage that Henry YII.'s Chapel, Westminster, and King's College Chapel at Cambridge was built. Of this final ending Fergusson writes :—" Under the Tudors the style went out in a blaze of glory. Nothing can be mor, gorgeous or fascinating than the Boyal chapels and other contemporary fan-roofed buildings; but they are like the fabled dying hues of the dolphin—bright and brilliant, but unnatural and fleeting. It was the last spasmodic effort of an expiring style, and soon passed away." Then followed the Eenaissanee, which in a large sense was a reversion to precedents and in accordance with the in- tellectual movement of the times. Eoman forms were again employed, though by no means without originality of adapta- tion. But though the Gothic style was practically dead, yet it still made itself apparent even in Eenaissanee work, and here and there were to be noted Eenaissanee buildings which showed a distinctly general Gothic effect and feeling. Since the Eenaissanee, English architects have had a re- vival of both Greek and Gothic styles, and their latest move is in the direction of a resuscitation of Eenaissanee. English architecture, in the understanding of architects, may be roughly traced as follows :—Beginning with Saxon work, we trace its progress through Norman, Early English Gothic, Decorated, and Perpendicular Gothic to Tudor, Jacobean, and Queen Anne; after which there began a series of revivals from a very severe Classic type to a very energetic, and for the most part, ill-digested revival of Gothic art through various phases of neo-Classic and Eenaissanee, back to Quoen Anne architecture again. This is, roughly speaking, a summary of the course of English architecture till, in the present day, we have no settled style at all, except that, in a general way, churches are still built in the Gothic style (chiefly, at present, following the later periods), whilst for public and private buildings of various sorts, various forma of Eenaissanee art are generally adopted. The very latest,