BURGER'S SECRET. 449 would be aroused if he dropped us both at some lonely spot in the dead of the night." " Quite so. I think it would be best for us to meet at the Gate of the Appian Way at midnight. I must go back to my lodgings for the matches and candles and things." " All right, Burger ! I think it is very kind of you to let me into this secret, and I promise you that I will write nothing about it until you have published your report. Good-bye for the present! You will find me at the Gate at twelve." The cold, clear air was filled with the musical chimes from that city of clocks as Burger, wrapped in an Italian overcoat, with a lantern hanging from his hand, walked up to the rendezvous. Kennedy stepped out of the shadow to meet him,. "You are ardent in work as well as in love !" said the German, laughing. " Yes, rhave been waiting here for nearly half an hour." "I hope you left no clue as to where we were going." " Not such a fool! By Jove, I am chilled to the bone f Come on, Burger, let us warm ourselves by a spurt of hard walking." Their footsteps sounded loud and crisp upon the rough stone paving of the disappointing road which is all that is left of the most famous highway of the world. A peasant or two going home from the wine-shop, and a few carts of country produce coming up to Eome, were the only things which they met. They swung along, with the huge tombs looming up through'the darkness upon each side of them, until they had come as far as the Catacombs of St. Calixtus' and saw against a rising moon the great circular bastion of Cecilia Metella in front of them. Then Burger stonped with his hand to his side. "Your legs are longer than mine, and you are more accustomed to walking,'' said he, laughing. < < I think that the place where we turn off is somewhere here. Yes, this is it, round the corner of the trattoria. Now, it is a very narrow path, so perhaps I had better go in front and you can follow." He had lit his lantern and by its light they were enabled the home is always bright. o