COMMERCIAL. 255 the largest demand in the world. House of Commons, and through that Hous6 to the Empire at large on April 29th, 1897. He said,—"Twelve months ago it was my duty to call the attention of the Committee to the financial condition of the country. I had to place before them the record of a very prosperous year. The credit of the country had never stood so high, the revenue had never been so large, the expenditure never so immense, and we had never specifically devoted so much to the reduction of the National Debt. Financially we seemed to be on the crest of a wave, and it would have been rash to have anticipated that we should rise even higher. And yet we have done so. In spite of political circumstances in the United States, which for a time paralysed trade, in spite of unrest in South Africa, distress in India, and anxieties in the East of Europe, the revival of trade, which commenced in the summer of 1895, has been well maintained." Value of British Foreign Trade. "The total value of our foreign trade in 1895 was £702,500,000. The total value of our foreign trade in 1896 was £738,000,000, an increase of five per cent., to some extent m prices, but mainly in volume. I think I may say that our home trade is not less flourishing. The returns of the earnings of our railway companies, the smaller list of failures, the increased returns of our bankers' clearing-houses, especially in the provinces, and our labour statistics showing better employment in the skilled labour market, and last, but by no means least, the ray of hope given to the most depressed agricultural districts by a good wheat crop and higher prices for it, all, I think, tend to increase the prosperitv of the country." r J Revenue of the United Kingdom. " During- tHe last year our people Have smoked and drunk f1019' rri 7 haVe earned more money and paid more income tax. They have written more letters, and last but not least, they have paid more death duties than in the preceding year -Lherefore, I hope I may be allowed this deduction, that the country is not going backwards." This maybe called an official bird's-eye view of the com- mercial and financial condition of the country, and as such it is given here.