THE HOUSEHOLD DOCTOR. 385 vene. Then about the fourth day a rash appears, usually first on the face, raised above the skin and running into half- moon shaped blotches; spreading downward it covers the body in twenty-four hours. It should be encouraged to come out; there is great danger in suppressing a rash; great care should be taken against chills, especially at night; and the room should be warm but well ventilated. The special danger to guard against is trouble with the lungs, and bronchitis and pneumonia may arise. There may also be diarrhoea, sickness, inflammation of the eyes and of the wind- pipe. The complaint is highly contagious, and Lifebuoy Soap should therefore be plentifully used, not only in wash- ing every vessel used by the sick person—generally, in the case of measles, a child; but the nurse should also wash her hands repeatedly with the Lifebuoy Soap, this latter precau- tion being her great source of safety. In all infectious diseases warm water, clean towel, nail brush, and Lifebuoy Soap should be kept outside the sick-room for the doctor's use. lniection continues in measles while any cough or shedding 01 skin remains—perhaps about four weeks. To distinguish between scarlet fever and measles, the eruption in the latter complaint is rough, so that great unevenness is felt on passing the hand over the skin, while the roughness is not apparent m scarlet fever Further, the colour of the eruption is dark scarlet m measles, and bright scarlet, in scarlet fever, while sneezing and some other catarrhal symptoms, which are fever ™ 9tagG °f measles> are ahsQ^ ™ scarlet WwmpS-^ al8° \Z6TJ infecfcious complaint. It commences 7h l i lTSlTS' ihen aPPears the sweUin£ of the gland of 1 UHd-r the 6ar' Called Professionally the parotid gland. There is usually much pain and soreness ofthe S^ftf a £f ^ - mWte jaws Careful; ?r iT draughts, and on no account should the swell- Tb6,.made t0 8ubaide suddenly or be treated with cold S on mav'flwr611 "T?6* t0 C°ld air" If so> ^ in- itiation may fly to more vital parts of the bodY. Keen head and throat wrapped in flannel therefore; anply hot Hnseed Kfc wooicovered ^fl^W biSfftA q?d f°°d' SUch as milk and broth> should £gg^gntoajgw days, and thebawgs should be kept open. washed with SUNLIGHT SOAP, ~T