THE ARMY. [Master-General for equipment and supplies, the Adjutant- .General (for discipline, education, &c), the Inspector-General of Ordnance, and the Inspector-General of Fortifications. Each official is directly responsible to the War Secretary for the time "being who is in Parliament. Further, there is the Accountant-General, who represents the Finance Secretary. There is further a War Office Consultation Council, the Secretary of State being president. | The direct and general command rests still, however, with the Commander-in-Chief, who has with him various officials, having charge of various branches- and departments such as the Intelligence Department, the Mobilisation Service, &c. There is further a Committee of the Cabinet, or Government of the day, with seats in Parliament, for causing co-operation, &c, between the naval and military forces. The several branches of the Regular Army may thus be Summarised:— (1) Royal Artillery, sub-divided into Horse, Field, Moun- tain and Garrison Artillery; (2) Cavalry (horse-soldiers), divided into Household Cavalry and Cavalry of the Line; (3) Royal Engineers ; (4) Foot Guards ;. (5) Infantry of the Line, comprising the great bulk of the Army; (6) Service, Store and Pay Corps, and last, the Medical Staff Corps. The Reserve is composed of men who have served with the colours, and who in return for a pension are liable to be called to serve again if necessary. The terms of service are :—Long service, twelve years with the colours ; short service, seven years with the colours and five years with the Reserve. In the Foot Guards, short service is three years with the colours, and nine in the Reserve, or an additional year with the colours if abroad. A good character soldier may re-engage in his twelfth year, and after serving for twenty-one years may have a pension for life; on the other hand, a man may enlist for three years only, but should he not re-engage he is not entitled to deferred pay. Guns.—The Horse Artillery has been re-armed with a new twelve-pounder cannon weighing only 12 cwt., and having steel wire bound over the inner core, thus making the weapon at once lighter and yet stronger. The new wire guns for Horse Artillery are believed to be superior to any foreign weapon of SUNLIGHTToAPTGoi^Medd, Jamaica, 189lT~