SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 285 for the cold weather, but should not be thrown down to the birds continuously. Barley is a good flesh-forming food, as also is wheat; but oats and oatmeal are more flesh-forming, and also contain more fat-making substance than wheat. Barley, however, is cheaper, by weight. Oatmeal, in fact, is too dear for general use. Dari and buckwheat are also recommended. Peas and beans are a very flesh-forming food, but are not suitable for continuous use. Potatoes should not, as a rule, be given alone; they are too starchy; mixed with meal or bran they form a good food for the morning. Potato peelings may be used in this way,—they may be boiled until soft, and then mashed up with scalded bran to make a dryish paste. Experience will soon indicate the best methods of feeding fowls, especially if the effect of foods upon them be watched. The role is to avoid both over- feeding and under-feeding. " Give them," says Mr. Lewis Wright, "as much as they will eat eagerly, and no more; directly they begin to feed with apparent indifference, or cease to run when the food is thrown to a little distance, the supply should be stopped Food should never be left on the ground. If such a slovenly practice be permitted, much of what is eaten will be wasted, and a great deal will never be eaten at all, for fowls are dainty in their ways, and unless at starvation point, always refuse sour or sodden food." Be particular that the drinking water is always clean and fresh; dirty water makes the fowls ill. As a rule, if fowls do become ill it is better to kill them at once to prevent the risk of infection. Eoup is caused hy cold and wet and is very contagious ; it begins like a cold, and a bad discharge takes place from the nostril. Separate the bird from the others ; add a little sulphate of iron and a little sulphuric acid to its drinking water and wash the fowl's head with tepid water. It should be fed on meal, and Mr. Lewis Wright recommends half a grain of cayenne pepper and half a grain of powdered allspice in a sort of pill of the meal. If a fowl have the "gapes" it is said that a little spirits of turpentine with the grain thrown to the birds is good. To preserve Egg's new=laid for Months. Smear the shells, the same dag the eggs are laid, with glycerine. They will be milky and as fresh as if just laid, at the end of SUNLIGHT SOAP never disappoints.