"SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. 76 SUNLIGHT SOAP KNIGHTHOOD, ORDERS OF. Garter.—The most noble Order of the Garter, which is the highest and oldest order in the kingdom, was instituted by King Edward III. about August, 1348, and reconstituted in 1805. The members con- sist of the Sovereign and 26 knights, princes of the blood being admitted as supernumeraries. The motto of the Order is "Honi Boit qui mal y pense," and the insignia are the garter of dark blue ribbon, edged with gold, bearing the motto, worn round the left leg under the knee; the collar of gold, of 26 pieces (each representing a garter, with a pendant, St. George fighting the dragon, called the George ; the lesser George hanging from the left shoulder by a broad blue ribbon; and an eight-pointed silver star worn on the left side when the knights are not in the dress of the Order, which consists of a blue velvet mantle lined with white taffeta, a surcoat and hood of crimson velvet, and a black velvet cap with a plume of white ostrich feathers with a tuft of black heron's feathers in the centre. Most of the sovereigns of Europe are members of the Order. Thistle.—The most ancient and most noble Order of the Thistle is a Scotch Order instituted in 1540 by James V., and revived in 1687 by James II. of England. The Order consists of the Sovereign, the princes, and 16 knights. The insignia are: a collar of gold, the pattern being thistles alternate with sprays of rue, and a pendant, an eight-pointed silver star with the figure of St. Andrew and his cro-s in the centre; the star, an eight-pointed silver star, the points being alternately pointed and shaped like the tail of a bird, with a thistle in the centre surrounded by the motto of the Order, "Nemo me impune lacessit" ; the badge of an oval containing the figure of St. Andrew Surrounded by the motto. The ribbon is green. St. Patrick.—The most illustrious Order of St. Patrick is an Irish Order instituted in 1783 by George III., and consists of the Sovereign, the Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland (the Grand Master), and 22 knights. The insignia are: a collar of roses and harps with a pendant, oval, with the cross of St. Patrick surmounted by a shamrock in the centre, sur- rounded by a blue enamelled band, with the motto of the Order, " Quia separabit ? "; the star is eight-pointed, with a shamrock in the centre. The ribbon is sky-blue. Bath.—The most honourable Order of the Bath was instituted in 13D9 by Henry IV. It subsequently became neglected, but was revived in 1725 by George I. The Order, which was originally a military one, was opened to civilians in 1847, and the number of members, exclusive of the Sovereign and princes, increased to G.C.B.'s, 50 for military service and 25 for the civil service; KC.B.'s, 123 for military service and 80 for the civil service; C.B.'s, 690 for military service an 1 2 ■ ' ic civil service. The insignia consists of an eight-pointed gold cross, with the lion of England between the four principal angels; in the centre the rose, thistle, and shamrock between three imperial crowns within a circle containing the motto of tae Order, " Tria juncta in uno." The ribbon of the Order is crimson.