DOMESTIC ECONOMY. should be worn next the skin, while calico ranks next as a good material. Children require warmer clothing than their elders. Cheap, gaudy finery should be avoided. It fades soon and looks anything but fine. If clothes be good in material and well-made, they will look much better—if the person wearing them be well-behaved and well-mannered—than gaudy finery that is spoiled in the first shower of rain. But even good clothes will soon become shabby if left about carelessly. Dresses therefore should be hung up on a hook out of the dust when not in use, and a neat corner " cupboard " may be made for this purpose, as described under the heading, " Hints on Furniture." Or if to be used the next morning, the gown may be placed neatly and evenly over the back of a chair. The art of dressing well really lies in simplicity, with adaptations to figure and to circumstances in life. Many dresses and articles of clothing may be made at home, the great point being to get good patterns and good measurements to accurately suit the size and figure. Socks may be knitted, and crochet work trimmings made at home. Antimacassars as adornments for chairs can also be made at home. The number of economical things that may be done to make home pretty, agreeable, and tasty, and to make the best of what you have, are almost inconceivable. The point is to make up your mind to be self-reliant and do things yourself, without being moan or stingy, and it is wonderful how one success in this respect leads on to another. A cigar box may be turned into a pretty pincushion by odd bits of silk and padding, and art muslin ; small hampers similarly treated may form a most useful and ornamental piece of furniture for a drawing-room, while a square box, also similarly beautified, will do for a music waggon. Even a drain-pipe cleaned and painted, and with a bottom put to it, will answer the purpose of an umbrella stand. All these things may be done by the ladies of the house, for they are not arduous work, but, of course, taste and intelligence are required. . Th.e Right Way.-A great source of domestic economy is in learning to do things in the right way. There is a right and a wrong way of doing even the simplest things. The right way saves time, trouble, temper and money: the wrong way does the reverse. makes homes brighter and hearts lighter.