COMPETITIONS. 473 girl can do to bring happiness, not only to himself or herself, but to make others at home happy. "From Harold George, " Riverdale, " Rock Park, Eock Ferry. . " September 10th, 1897. ' Cf Dear Sunlight,—What a jolly man you are, to offer such fineprizea to us girls and boys ! When I read your paper I danced with delight, and I read over and over and over again every Rule very, very carefully, that 1 might follow each one just as you gave it. "One morning.when Mamma had turned out heaps and heaps of clothes for the wash, I slipped in amongst them, and I said, ' Mamma, did you ever try Sunlight Soap?' Dear Mamma was awfully hurried, but she took time to explain to me her many troubles with many soaps ; but she had never tried Sunlight. Don't you think it was kind of her to tell me all this, and those heaps of clothes lying there waiting ? I do hope you have a Mamma like I have, to tell you things you don't know. But I must not forget what followed. ' Mamma,' I said, ' do please, try Sunlight Soap, just this once, to please me.' I was delighted when i-he said, ' yes,' and allowed me to go my very self for one of your beautiful .tablets. Afterwards I weDt off to school, as happy as happy could be. j " I hurried home that day from school, and who could believe it, there was Mammadressed and as she said,' ready to take her own little Sunlight out for a little walk !' Where was the washing ? Mamma had said she would not have done that night till seven o'clock 1 Dear Sunlight, I thought of you, so very happy amongst your many darling watches, tick, tick, ticking away so prettily—and not one for little me. " At last I ventured to ask Mamma about the washing. Oh. Sunlight, you jolly man the washing was all done and I did not know it. And j.ust guess how it was done so early : Mamma had read on your i wrapper the directions : 'The Sunlight Way of Washing,' and she did just exactly as your wrapper told her to do with Sunlight Soap. After hardly a rub and never a boil, she lifted out the clothes one by one from the wash-tub "and only think of it: Sunlight Soap had done the work, and Mamma had only to hang the clothes up to dry and there they were All as clean as a new pin. " Do you know, dear Sunlight, I can't tell you how very, very glad I am now for Mamma's sake alone, because she says ' Washing will be a real pleasure to her after this.' " Now, dear Sunlight, the man with the prizes, this is my story of the Sunlight washing, and, honour bright, no one helped me to write it. " Dear Sunlight, I do want a watch so much. I should so love to hear the dear little thine: tick, tick, tick-my very, very, own. for the sake of quality.