" SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. 36 SUNLIGHT SOAP, Ntftes—continued. jewellery, and also all inland postal packets on the cover of which the word "Registered," or any word or phrase to that effect, ia written or impressed, if posted without registration, will be charged twice the naual registration fee, 4.d. No postal packet will be transmitted by post if anything is ro written, printed, or impressed upon the address side as to embarrass the officers of the Department in dealing with it, but, subject to thia rule, the regulation which has hitherto restricted writing or printing on the address side of a postcard or other postal packet will no longer ' be enforced. Telegrams—Inland. Sixpence for first 12 words, and a Halfpenny for each additional word. Name and Address are charged for. The cost of a reply, not exceeding 48 words, may be prepaid, and a Reply Form will then be delivered to the addressee, who will be at liberty to send his reply, from any Telegraph Office, at any time within two months. Postmasters may accept telegrams after the usual hours on pay- ment of the following fees, if the terminal office ia open, or its attention can be gained. If the handing-in office is not open for either postal or telegraph business, Is. for the postmaster, Is. for the clerk. Is.-for a messengc-r, if one be required to call the clerk. If the office is open for postal business but not for telegraph busi- ness, Is. for the clerk, 6cZ. for a messenger if one be required to call the clerk. If the office is open for the receipt of press new3 (but not for other telegraph business, or ordinary postal business), 6d. for the post- master, Qd. for the clerk. Foreign Telegram Rates. Rates per word, including names and addresses, from any part of the.; United Kingdom. Eueopean System. h. a. s. a.. o 6 . Algeria Austria-Hungary Belgium Bulgaria and Eastern Eoumeha Cyprus Denmark Franc9 Germany Gibraltar Greece and Greek Islands Holland Italy . 0 3 . 0 8 . 0 2 0 44 . 0 6J . 0 3* . 0 2 . 0 2 . 0 4J . 0 7 . 0 2 .03 Extka Eueopean Malta Norway Portugal Russia (in Eitropc) ... Servia Spain ... Sweden Switzerland Turkey (in Europe)... West Coast of Africa, from 0 8J- 0 4j 54 4 ■k 1 4 3 Kates ... 4s. vary 7d. to 0 Gi- 9 10. Aden Argentine Republic Australia— S 9 Now South Wales ... 4 11 ... 4s. to 4 6 Victoria Queensland ... 4 ... 9 8 a South Australia ... 4 7