33° " SUNLIGHT " YEAR-BOOK. Barley-water.—Wash two tablespoonfuls of best pearlI barley in cold water (see it is not in the least musty). Put it. with a quart of water into a saucepan and boil slowly for am hour, adding sugar to taste, and flavour with the very thinly-- cut yellow part of lemon rind, or lemon juice. Strain into a jug. The longer it boils the thicker it will be. Apple Tea.—Eoast 5 or 6 apples, put them into a jug. with sugar to taste, and a thin strip of yellow lemon rind, pour, over quart of boiling water. Stir till they are broken, cover, and stand near the fire for an hour. Strain and cool. Whey.—Add a glass of Marsala to J pint of boiling milk for white wine whey ; boil up, sweeten, strain. ■ Treacle Whey (Good for a cold).—Add treacle instead of wine. Cold Whey (A cooling drink).—Add a little rennet to hot milk. Stand in a warm place. In fifteen minutes beat up: curd, strain off whey. Cup Pudding for Invalids. — A small teaspoonful of flour, a trifle of salt and a dessert-spoonful of cold water; then pour in a teacupful of boiling milk, stirring all the-: time ; when cold add a well-beaten fresh egg ; see that: the mixture is quite free from lumps; sweeten with a little? sugar ; pour into a buttered basin and bak° for about: twenty minutes. Note on Digestibility of Food.—Boiled food is more easily digested than fried food. Hot food is more easily digested than cold food. Liquid food is more easily and quickly assimilated than solid food, but it should not be swallowed down too quickly; rather it should be taken in sips. Sunlight Soap in the Kitchen.—Sunlight Soap is an indispensable accessory in the kitchen—every wooden and. china utensil can be washed quickly and thoroughly with it. It will keep kitchen and dish cloths sweet and clean with the; minimum amount of trouble. Lifebuoy Soap is in a specia*. manner the cook's Mend. If she has to cut up « high meat or game she should directly afterwards wash her hands and the knife with plenty of Litzbuoy Koyal DismPECTANT Soap. ' Take"life easy, use SUNLIGHT SOAP. ~