«' SUNLIGHT" YEAR-BOOK. SUNLIGHT SOAP herring apiece, with a potato, could be added, or could precede the porridge, the meal, in point of nourishment, would probably equal anything that could be bought; only, the cooking; must be good, so that the food is nice and tasty. Barley and Maize are also valuable foods. Barley meal mixed with an equal weight of wheaten flour is made into cakes in some parts, and eaten with milk. Barley forms good food. Pearl barley is barley with all the husk removed; it may be used in soups with great advantage, but it should be cooked two hours. Maize, or Indian corn, is comparatively little known in Britain, unless we except the preparation " corn flour," which is, we believe, made from Indian corn. If the flour of maize be mixed with an equal weight of wheat flour it makes, it is said, a sweeter bread than that of wheat alone. Maize is undoubtedly very nourishing, and the simplest way of using it is to stir it into boiling water until a sort of porridge is formed. It should be eaten with milk and sugar. Potatoes, Peas, Beans, and Vegetables.—Potatoes are not the best of food. They are eaten because they are cheap and abundant. Still, mealy potatoes go well with, meat; eaten alone they are not suited to support life. It is more economical to boil them in their skins than to bake them. Peas and beans are much more nutritious, and dried split peas may be used in soup and in pease pudding to advan- tage. Haricot beans also—which are the ripe seeds of a particular kind of French bean—might be used much more than they are. Both peas and beans, however, are difficult of digestion, and require to be well cooked. Haricot beans? indeed, should be soaked in water all night before being; used, and some authorities suggest they should be kept in a wet state for a day or two after being soaked in cold watery this process causiag the starch to be converted into sugar, and after being boiled for some hours, until they are quite soft, they will be found very nice. As to green vegetables, such as cabbage, their value is well known; they all form, wholesome food. Turnips form a very useful food; after boiling them, the water should be pressed out, and they may be mashed with a little dripping, and salted and peppered to taste. Tea, Coffee, and Cocoa.—Tea varies immensely, and so do opinions about this valuable beverage. Flat, washy tea