HINTS respecting HUMAN DISSECTIONS. l LONDON: PRINTED IN THE YEAR M.DCC.XCV.iHINTS, &c. 4 MAN, from the nature of his ftrudture, is heir to innumerable evils. The very phenomena, common to all, of growth and diflolution, render his frame liable to painful revolutions. That ftrudture, formed, as it is, with a wonderful chain of dependent adtions of folids and fluids, with ramifications of vef- fels that elude the moft penetrating eye; is, at the fame time, expofed to all the viciflitudes of climates and feafons—to infections that float in the air—to poifons from rabid animals and * As foon as poflible after being bit by a rabid animal, the part fhould be wafhed with cold water, tor a confider- able length of time—fo long, that after dropping a little B blackC 6 ) arid venomous reptiles; as well as from- the deleterious juices * of different vegeta- bles ; black ink into the wounded part, the blacknefs of the ink /hall be totally waffied off. This may be very conveniently done, by pouring water out of the fpout of a kettle, fuf- pended high above the part the ftream of water is dire&ed upon : after this, no time ffiould be loft in cutting out the bitten part with a fharp knife or razor—And, as there have been inftances, even after thefe precautions have been adopted, of fatal effe£ls enfuing, it would be advife- able to burn the wound with a hot iron, or with a cauftic, fuch as the lapis infernalis. In thofe inftances where the deleterious effedls have fupervened, after both cutting out the wound, and cauterizing it with a hot iron, it is pro- bable, that the long fangs of the dog may have palled deeper than the knife or burning-iron has extended ; and therefore, for the greater certainty of perfect fafety, a flick of the lapis infernalis ffiould be pointed like a dog’s tooth, and worked into the bottom and every cavity of the wound, alter the ufe of all the other means of prevention. * Laudanum, or tin£lure of opium, is not only fwallowed fometimes in large dofes through miftake, butoftener de- fjgnedly. The firft effeft is, fleepinefs, and torpor gradually fpreading over the fyftem, to almoft univerfal infenfibility It is difficult to convey any thing down the throat, wher the infenfibility is confiderable; and in that cafe, a fyringe may be employed, to convey into the ftomach a vomit o' white vitriol, even to two drachms. From the moment that the accident ol taking this poifon is difeovered, th^ infenfibility mull, if poffible, be prevented, by roufinp theContinuation of Note, -page 5. The great objeft, however, fhould be, to eradicate en- tirely all rabid infection. The human fpecies, happily, does not communicate the difeafe like rabid animals; but he will carry infe&ion in his habit much longer than them, before it exhibit its dreadful effeffs. Within twelve months, I have known two perfons die hydrophobic, about eleven months after the bite of the animal: Some Authors mention years; but, in general, the fymptoms fhew themfelves within a few weeks* of the accident. Dogs, I believe, never exceed fix weeks, and rarely as many days. In order, therefore, to eradicate the difeafe out of the kingdom for ever, nothing more feems requi- fite, than, at any period of the year mofl convenient to dog-owners, to fhut up every dog in the kingdom for feven weeks ; in which time, every one having received rabid matter, would evince it, and of courfe be killed. The infection being thus annihilated, to prevent its en- trance into the kingdom, in future, every fhip having a dog on board, upon entering any Britifh harbour, mufl fubmit to the fame reffraint, of fubjefting the dog to feven weeks quarantine. Thus, perhaps, at an expence under fifty pounds, Canine Madnefs might for ever be ^excluded from this maritime kingdom. If Cats could be confined to the fame quarantine, it would be advife- able ; but, probably, this animal receives the infe£lion only from the dog. The above plan was fuggefted to me, I think, by my friend Dr. Bardfley, #\ . V • ■ ' ■ ' ■ -1 J- ■. ■ ■. i ■ v: id :» .( 9 ) bles 'f; and not lefs from exhalations $ of tht foil he treads upon, and of the minerals § he digs frtfrri the attention of the patient, and fhaking him forcibly, to keep him from falling afleep ; for it fleep can be pre- vented, death will not enfue. + I think it is Mr. Thicknefle, in his Travels through Spain, who defcribes a pi£lurefque mode of travelling he adopted in the lefs frequented provinces ot this king- dom, where he might occafionally meet with wild fruits, without being able to afcertain their falubrity. His chaife was drawn by a mule, on whofe back was feated a monkey, drelTed out like a poflillion: whenever he wanted to afcer- tain the fafety of eating any fruit or vegetable with which he was unacquainted, he applied to the monkey ; and whatever this diverting animal chofe to eat or refufe, his mailer did the fame, and by this precaution fuffered no injury. , J In fuffocation by noxious vapours, damps, or the air of pits, the perfon fhould be removed into frefh air, and cold water fhould be repeatedly thrown upon the face, drying the body at intervals. The fame plan may be adopt- ed in apparent death from lightning—with the addition of flight ele£lrical fhocks, if a machine can be procured. § Arfenic and Laudanum are the moll general poffons made ufe of by perfons who wifh to deftroy themfelves; and it is hence proper that the means of prevention fhould be as generally known.—Arfenic itfelf, when taken into the flomach, is apt to excite vomiting, but not always. Whether this effeft be produced, or Other wife, it would B a be( 8 ) from under him. Numerous and varied as are thefe fources of deftrudtion, there are others, which, if not equally fatal, are not lefs painful; from fractures, wounds, and a thoufand acci- dents to which he is expofed ; and they all uni- formly prove, 'that Man is a frail b^ing, with mediant claims on humanity for fuccour. Of the various ftations which the human cha- racter affumes, one of the moft fublime is that wherein a creature prefumes to interpret the will of the Creator. It was hence natural, in the i infancy of fcience,when the anatomical ftruCture N of the body, and the aCtion of morbid powers, were equally unknown, to apply to the Mi- nifters of the Divinity for relief: hence Priefts be advifeable to promote full vomiting as foon aspofiible. The quickeft and eafieft vomit is white vitriol; and in order to expedite th^ operation, a drachm at leail, dilfolved in water or any fluid, may be given. Arfenic being heavy, sand liable to get entangled in the rugas of the flomach, is very difficult to be extricated ; but whatever the quantity is that may be evacuated, in that proportion is the danger of life diminifhed. The flomach lhould be well fupplied with gruel, barley water, or fome foft mucillaginous drink, with a quarter of an ounce of liver of fulphur (hepar fulphuris) difTolved in each pint or quart of fluid, as liver of fulphur tends to decompofe the arfenic, and tenders it milder in its effe£l. officiated( 9 ) officiated in the temples and public places, in a two-fold capacity; till fcience in general, and the hiftory of difeafes in particular, became more univerfally cultivated, and better un- derftood ; and the medical art confiiituted a diftindt profeffion, in utility and dignity, inferior to none. Its objedt is, to aid hu- man mifery of every fpecies to which hu- man imbecility is prone. It includes, not only an endeavour to remove difeafe and pain of body, but alfo to comfort the afflidted minds of the patient and of his deareft connec- tions ; and, even in the melancholy period, when fcience and folicitude are equally fruit- fefs, to foften that dread feparation which each individual is deftined to undergo, ‘To merit and fuffain this eulogy, various branches of fcience muff be cultivated, and particularly Anatomy, which implies a know- ledge of the constituent parts of the human body, and of its effential fundKons.- No dif- fedtion of the brute can convey this knowledge, becaufe Man differs in his organization from every other animal; nor can any delineation of parts, by drawings or prints, fuffice. The moft ingenious capacity, after the niceff exa- mination( 10 ) mi nation of the plan of a building, cannot com- plete the edifice; norcan the human ftrudture be known by any other medium than diffedtion of the human body. Without a knowledge of the parts, the means of remedying the defedts inci- dental to thofe parts, when under difeafe, muft ever be deficient. As the mofl: ingenious artifl, if ignorant of the parts of a compound machine, is incapable of redtifying or reftoring its move- ments ; and no machine is fo complicated as the human fyftem j confequenttyj anatomical knowledge is eflential to medical fcience in general. Thisfadtis indubitably eftablifhed in the mind of every enlightened man: Neverthelefs, in the prefent year, a Bill, entitled the Dead Body Bill\ was brought into Parliament, and fupported by fome of its Members; calculated to augment the impediments to anatomical knowledge, by increafing fines and penalties on procuring dead bodies ! By a perverfion of language, this barbarous, becaufe unfcientific Bill, was fup- ported under a plea of humanity !—as if it were inhuman to acquire that knowledge which enables one man to remove or mitigate the miferies of another ! Could(' «■ ) Could this knowledge "be annihilated by fines and penalties, what would be the confe- quence to one of thefe Senators, were he acci- dentally to break a leg, or fradure the ikull ? In his anguiih, would he not regret the want of that knowledge he had contributed to pre- vent or impede ? * Or, were an affedionate wife, perhaps not formed fo favourably for parturition as moft of her fex, in her agony, to demand the aid of experience—humanity, weeping over human woe, muft turn afide her dejeded countenance; for perifh muft the miferable objed under the hand of ignorance. Not in thefe inftances alone, but in every ftep of life, from childhood to old age, the knowledge of Anatomy is effential to human comfort; and to prevent the acquifition of this knowledge, is an ad of inhumanity : it is a felo de fe of individual felicity. In a political view, it would certainly be improvident, as the ftudent of the healing art would hence be compelled to travel to a foreign country, to acquire that knowledge which is denied( 12 ) denied him in his own ; and probably France would again become the centre of furgical knowledge, if not of medical fcience. Indeed, the fenfible part of the community have been fo fully convinced of the neceflity of human diffedtion, that, inftead of augmenting fines and punishments, to prevent the practice of dealing dead bodies, the humane Wilber- force brought a Bill into Parliament a few years ago, the objedt of which was, I think, to fubjedt malefadtors, who Should fuffer death by the fentence of the law, to diffedtion. This Bill was rejedted by the Houfe of Lords, un- der a plea, that the terror of diffedtion was greater, in the view of criminals, than death itfelf; and that, by indifcriminate diffedtion, this terror would be leffened, and the dread of committing crimes be proportionably weaken- ed. If this reafoning were well founded, it afford- ed the ftrongeft argument in favour of the Bill itfelf, as it regards Anatomy; for, if this fuper- ftitious terror were in general removed, the op- portunities of diffedtion would be facilitated and increafed. It might at length, probably, be fre-( *3 ) quently permitted by the friends of patients in general, and particularly of thofe who might die in hofpitals; but, whilft this terror of diffection is encouraged, it would be equally cruel and impracticable to introduce the practice on hof- pital patients, without ruining the character of the hofpitals themfelves. Were patients to enter a ward under the terror of difleCtion, the very dread of fuch an event might fhorten exiftence, and prove equally inhuman and fatal. Nor do I know of any method of readily pro- curing dead bodies, in a free country, whilft this dread pervades the community. The time may come, when the higher ranks may fuffer the influence of reafon to furmount every ob- ftacle, and permit more frequent difleCtions among their equals, as the moft effectual means of facilitating the practice among the lower individuals of the community. Fortunately for the Medical Art, the Dead Body Bill alluded to, has not yet acquired the fanCtion of Parliament: but, fhould it ever pafs into a law, and the heavy fines and pe- nalties, to be enaCted by it, prevent the acqui- fition of fubjeCts for diffeCtion, a lociety, to C counteract( H ) counteract this difficulty, might be inftituted, the members of which lhould engage, that each fhould be differed on deceafe. As the Faculty are peculiarly interefled in the pro- motion of anatomical knowledge, fuch a fo- ciety fhould be firft formed among themfelves. One might be led to conclude, by the care taken of dead bodies, and the pomp adopted to convey them, <c food for worms,’’ that they were imagined to rife identically again, and inherit immortality. At this pe- riod of fcience, however, it cannot but occur to fuperficial obfervation, that the body is compounded of perifhable elements, of thofe fubftances which it daily takes in for its nou- rifhment; and therefore, on this ground, it would be as rational to confecrate a dead cow, a calf, or any other food on which the body had lived, and by which it had grown. To refine on this idea, it would become an inveftigation of the Phyiiologift, rather than of the Undertaker or Herald, to give to the deceafed the proper funereal accompaniments. Thus, to an Alderman or Common Council- m • man.( l5 ) I man, might be added a turbot or a turtle, or perhaps a furloin : to a fine lady we fhould feledt chicks and fyllahubs; and io on ad in- finitum, agreeably to previous habit, conftitu- tion, or rank ; and, doubtlefs, each of thefe are as likely for returning life, as their quon- dam mailers and miftrefies who had fed on them. Although this might be attended with a re- volution in Heraldry and Church Hiftory, it would have one good effedt on the fpedlator among the tombs, as he might immediately re- cognize the rank and character of the deceafed by the emblematic infignia, and thereby even afcertain the caufes of death. On a tomb with a fluttering dove might be fuggefted, that within repofed a tender love-fick maid : by another, crefted with horns, he might be ex- cited to pity or ridicule fome unfortunate huf- band; and, under a calapafh and calapee, might lie dormant an Eaft India Director, or even a Member of the Board of Controul. It has been acknowledged, that, in medical experiments, the firft eflays fhould be made C 2 on( 16 ) on the experimentalift. Storck tried his poifons firft on himfelf, and thereby acquired merited honour. The inflitution already fuggefted, is, that the members of the Faculty fhould unite in a fociety to difiedt one another. At the firft affociation, probably, deaths among themfelves might not be adequate to the demands of their numerous pupils; but, as the fociety increafed, there would be no doubt of a plentiful fupply. v i Upon entering into this fociety, each mem- ber fhould be bound; that, on his deceafe, his body fhall be difpofed of, agreeably to the de^ cifion of the fociety at large, or of a committee appointed for that purpofe. It muf! be a Angular pleafure to the mem- bers of this fociety to refledt, whilft living, on the great ufe they will be of to the community after death and that, however mankind may doubt of their utility prior to this event, none can hefitate afterwards to add fuch a tribute of approbation. They would enjoy the pride and fitisfadtion of exemption from the common fate of being eaten by worms, thefe worms eaten by birds and fifh, and thefe birds and fi flies( 17 ) fillies eaten by their friends—a mod: horrid reflection f i The Eaft and Weft Indian might perhaps efcape the earth-worm, from the greater ra- pacity of the crabs. Thefe crabs make excel- lent currie—which the living Eaft and Weft Indian devours with as much eagernefs as the crabs devoured the defundt ! Too many perfons, indeed, meet a prema- ture tomb in the watery element and be- come * The directions given by the Humane Society for th© Recovery of drowned perfons, cannot be too generally diffufed; and I fhafll therefore add here an abridgment of them* I. Convey carefully the body, with the head raifed, to the nearefl convenient houfe. ^l. Strip, dry the body, and clean the mouth and noftrils. 3. Young children—between two perfons in a hot bed. 4. An adult—Lay the body on a blanket or bed, and, in cold weather, near the fire : in warm feafons, the air fhould be freely admitted. It is to be gently rubbed with flannel, fprinkled with fpirits; and a heated warm-pan, covered, may be lightly moved over the back and fpine. 6. To( i8 ) come food for the inhabitants of the turbulent ocean. Thefe, again, may furnifh the tables of furviving friends, whofe refinement may trace, in a rich cod’s head, the lineaments of fome honeft tar *; or, in the delicate whiting, or 6. To ref ore breathing—Introduce the pipe of a pair of bellows (when no apparatus) into one nodril; the other, with the mouth, clofed—Inflate the lungs till the bread be a little raifed ; the mouth and nodrils mud then be let free. Repeat this proofs till life appear. 7. Tobacco fmohe is to be thrown gently into the funda- ment, with a proper indrument—or the bowl of a pipe covered, fo as to defend the mouth of the a di ft ant. 8. The bread to be fomented with hot fpirits—if no figns of life appear, the warm bath, or hot bricks, &c. 9. Ele£lricity early employed by a medical adiftant. * The Wl iter of this performance was podeded of the jaw of a fhark, that, during the bathing in the fea, of fome bailors, feized upon the arm of'one of them, and tore it from his bodv. The remains of the unfortunate feaman were brought on board ; foon after which he expired.— A furviving lailor, who had entertained a lingular efteem for the deceafed, vowed that his friend fhould be buried with all his limbs, and inffantly dripped, and jumped into the fea with a drawn knife in his hand. The diark continued to wallow near the fliip ; and the bailor, who \ was( l9 ) or gelatinous maid, feme love-fick female-j-, who might have preferred the cryftal grave to fur- viving the difappointment of an ardent but flighted affeUion !—whilft, in the remora, or more brilliant king-fifli, fome African mer- chant, was an expert fwimmer,dived under the belly of the fhark, into which he plunged his knile. The flroke was re- newed ; and at length the fhark, exhaufied by the lofs ot blood, was drawn to the fhip, and the arm of the deceafed taken from his ftomach. The limb was then fewed up in canvas with the deceafed failor, and decently committed to the waves, after the ufual funeral ceremonies. + Labat, who fays that the Caribs eat human flefh, adds, that they prefer that of an Englifhman to a French- man or Spaniard, as being more delicate and palatable. The fharks, according to this author, give the Englifh Nation the fame preference. Nouv. Voyage auxTflcs, t. 1, ch. 20, p. 470.—He attributes this preference to the flronger perfpiration of the Englifh, and not to the white- nefs of their fkin, for which they have been long dif- tinguifhed from other Nations. In the crufades, when people from every part of Europe were affembled toge- ther, the Englifh were remarked for the whitenefs of their hands; in which refpedf they ffill excell all the world. The Author of Hiftoire Morale des Ifles Antilles, eh. 21, p. 537, fpeaking of the Caribs, fays, “ Et difent “ que les Franqois font les plus delicats, et les Efpagnols “ les plus durs.”—In Sumatra, the foies of the feet and palms( 2° ) chant, or wealthy planter, might recognize the agonizing fibres of a negroe-flave, forcibly torn from native land and every endearing connec- tion, to contribute, whether living or dead, to their luxury and refinement * ! palms of the hands are preferred. Phil.Tranf. v. 6, p. 168. —Martyr fays, the Caribs preferred the legs and thighs, but never eat any part of women or girls* The dogs em- ployed by the Spaniards to hunt the Indians, paid the fame deference to the female fex. Rech.Philof. v. 1, p.226. Antonio de Herrera, in his firft Decade, relates, that the famous dog Baremel, whofe inflinft was fingular, guarded a narrow pafs in the Ifland of Hifpaniola ; and that, one day, an Indian woman, being defirous of palling by him, addrelfed him thus : “ Seignior Dog, do not “ hurt me ; I carry this letter to the Chriftians.” He adds, that “ the dog immediately fmelled at her, p d “ upon her, and fullered her to pafs without injury.*' BolFu’s Travels, v, i,p.ii,n. Rech. Philof. fur les Amer. v. 1, p. 78, n. Martyr de Nove Orbe, dec. 1, 1. 3, p. 23. * It is faid, that, from the fatality attending flave-lhips, crowds of filhpurfue them with fingular avidity, in order to feaft upon the poor objefls who may die, and be thrown overboard into the fea. Barbot, in his Guinea (ch. 17, p. 227), fpecifies fome of thefe filh that are more parti- cularly fond of the vileft part of the poor Have ; and delicately adds, “ They are peverthelefs tolerably good meat, when well drelFed and fcafoned.” What( 21 ) What an intellectual enjoyment muft thefe Gentlemen of the Faculty experience, when, inltead of having their minds embittered with fuch cannibal ideas, they view, in diftant, but true perfpeCtive, the noble ends they gratify ! What a luxury to hope, that, one day, another Monro or Cruikfhank may be exhibiting to wondering fpeCtators the beauties of their lym- phatics !—a future Abernethy, a bladder with calculi !—and a fubfequent Wathen, or Ware, elucidating an optic nerve ! That the fociety I have been recommending will increafe beyond the demand of its mem- bers, cannot be doubted, if we confider that the metropolis nourifhes with its vitals no lefs than ioo regular Phyficians, 1000 Corpora- tion Surgeons*, and 1000 Hall Members, befides * It is not unufual in Societies, to be at the expence of pointing each member who has patted the chair as Prefident. This muft afford an excellent hint to the Matter, Wardens, and Corporation of Surgeons, who might refine and improve upon it. But, to a£I with con- fittency to the furgical art, inftead of a painting, the fke- leton of each Matter might be fufpended in the great Hall of the Corporation, where the Matters might thus become D ufeful i( 22 ) / • befides irregulars, innumerable as the fands of the fea. When this period (hall arrive, the fupernumerary fubjetfts may be difpofed of to other learned feminaries, or to pupils, at a cer- tain fixed price ; and the profits, which muft be confiderable, appropriated to the Society for the Relief of the Widows of Medical Men. Then will the honour of this eftablifhment become the theme of public praife and private gratitude. We read of female Hindoos dying for their hufbands ; but here the Faculty de- vote themfelves as martyrs for their widows. Left, however, the wives, from pure gratitude, might be induced, by over-kindnefs, to haften this generous cataftrophe of their hufbands, it muft be a part of the plan of the fociety to make their wives female members; more efpe- ufeful to the young members, to whom, perhaps, they had before been of none. A diflin&ion fo great muff certainly produce numerous rival candidates, and perhaps even infli- gate the Wardens to afpire to the fame honour—an ho- nour, however, that fhould be invariably conferred upon Maflers alone, unlefs the friends of the candidate Warden could prove that the defun£l had made fome ufeful dif- covery in the art. A flimulus of this kind might animate exertion in more ways than eating and drinking at Hall Feafls. daily( 23 ) daily as fubjecls of this fex may be wanted in the differing theatre, more than, perhaps, co- veted at home; and certainly nothing can be a fweeter death than dying for furviving wi- dows, and perhaps for the benefit of future wives ; and it is alfo well known that the tender fex, at leaft when eternally filent, will raife more money than the other fex. * \ ■ * - * * Here, again, the intellectual pleafures muft be highly gratified. In one vial, hermetically fealed, might be inclofed thefufceptible female heart, that fluttered and changed at every vow. Another preparation might exhibit the opa- city of a once rolling and lucid eye, and force upon reflection the changeablenefs of all fub- lunary objeCts: and ftill more fedative to fober thought would the widower feel himfelf in his arm-chair, with a pipe, and a neat ftopper made of the fore-finger * of his dear difleCted rib; * Frazier fays, that the Chilefe make ufe of the bones of their captives for flute1:, and of their fkulls for diflies to drink out of; p. 64. Father Hennepin makes the fame obfervation, in his Hiftory of a New Difcovery—So, likewife, does Gem. Careri, Voy. du tour du Monde, t. 5, D 2 ch. 6,( 24 ) k rib; and the tongue dried, and dormant, under a bell-glafs, fixed on a mahogany frame—a tongue which, now filent, heretofore never was at reft. ch. 6, p. 68 ; and the Jefuit’s Letters by Lochman, v. l, p. 94. The King of the Huns, in combat, killed the King of Yve-chi, whofe fkull was ufed as a veflel upon all grand ceremonies : Hift. Anc. des Peuples de 1’Eu- rope, t. 3. Careri fays, he faw St. John the Baptift’s fkull at the Greek Mount at Jerufalem, which, he fays, he worfhipped ; 1. 1, ch. 9. And Abbe Fortis, in his Dalmatia, mentions, that the ifianders of Arbe, in the Gulph of Quaernaro, pretend to poflefs the heads of Sha- drech, Mefhech, and Abednego ; p. 348. Lucius Florus relates, that the Thracians made ufe of the fkulls of their captives, to drink libations to the gods; 1. 3, ch. 4.— All which evince, that bones have long been employed in very interefling and important offices, infleadof being buried, and loft to the conimunity. Valuable, indeed, muft have been the fkull of the bar- barian, when the Englifh have even offered one hundred pounds for the fcalp only of an Indian : (Hutchinfon's Hiftory of the Colony of Maffachufets Bay.) It may be prefumed, that the whole head of even a learned European would not fell for half the fum of the forehead only of an Iroquois, and which is three times more than the pur- chafe of a whole Heffian, who was eftimated, during the American war, at thirty pounds ; and, paltry as the fum is, fome Members in Parliament had the hardinefs to oppofe even this cheap purchafe. The4 (' 25 ) The fociety thus conftituted, and, of courfe, fupplying fupernumerary fubje&s, whofe mem- bers, naturally fhocked at the ignoble prac- tice of burial, would turn their attention to make the beft ufe of thefe fupernumeraries, and would of courfe advert to the economical invention of turning hulbands and wives into candles and foap, by a chymical procefs *. This * Accident has afforded many inflances, in proof of animal fubflances being changed into a waxy matter, not unlike fperma ceti, which is capable of making candles and foap. In confequence of this matter refembling fperma ceti recently found in the church yard of the Innocents at Paris, M. Fourcroy has given an analyfis of it, in the eighth volume of the Annales de Chemie, Memoir the fecond. The method of effefling this change with facility, is fince defcribed by Mr. Gibbes, in the Philofophical Tranfaftions of London. In June he buried a cow, in a place where, from the riling of a river to fupply a mill twice a day, it was fubmitted to the aflion ot running water. On taking this cow up in December, he lound, that where the water was ponflantly running over it, there it was changed into a fatty fub fiance ; but, where the water which had afled on the matter could not pars off, a very difagreeable fmell was fenfible, and the flefh was not fo much changed. A piece of this cow, that was perfeflly lean, was flruck through with a flick, and faflened to the bottom of the river : this piece was perfeflly changed intoC 26 ) This muff be not only highly beneficial to the revenue, and ferve the poor in general, but doubtlefs afford lingular elucidation to many dark and knotty points in Philofophy ; for, what could withftand the brilliancy of a young widow turned into an illuminated chan- delier, with ftfeams of vivid light from fingers and toes, and fplendour to dazzle from the eyes ? Perhaps, the glimmerings of an old / woman might not pay for labour, or at the Jeaff might light the kitchen-fire, or the to- bacco-pipe alluded to ; but this lofs would be refunded by the foap manufactured from an old threw, where no leys would be re- into a fat matter, and had loft its offenfive fmell. He adds. “ I have brought about this change in a much “ fhorter time, in the following manner: I took three “ lean pieces of mutton, and poured on them the three “ mineral acids; and I perceived, that, at the end of three “ days, each was much altered : that in the nitrous acid “ was much foftened, and, on feparating the acid from “ it, I found it to be in exa&ly the fame ftate with that which I had before got from the water ; that in the mu- “ riatic acid was not, in that time, fo much altered ; the “ vitriolic acid had turned the other black.” See Ap- pendix to the Critical Review, new Arrangement, vol. >3. P- 536. quifite