THE SKELETON. 144 from the inner surface of the shaft, while these two surfaces are pro- longed up one on each side. The coronoid process presents inferiorly a rough tuberculated triangular area, into which the brachialis anticus muscle is inserted. Both the olecranon and the coronoid process are beaked in front, but the coronoid process projects rather further forwards than the olecranon. The shaft deviates in its general direction about 10 degrees outwards from that of the trochlear ridge of the great sigmoid cavity. It is in the greater part of its extent three-sided and slightly curved, with the con- vexity backwards; but, for a short distance at the low^er end, is straight, slender and cylindrical. The outer harder, separating the anterior from the posterior surface and giving attachment to the interosseous membrane, is sharp in the greater part of its extent, but at the lower end is reduced to a mere line; while above, for about an inch below the smaller sigmoid cavity, it is replaced by a triangular area sufficiently depressed to leave room for the bicipital tuberosity of the radius passing it in pronation, at the same time that it gives origin all over to muscular fibres of the supinator brevis, and by the ridge behind it, to tendinous fibres of the same muscle. The posterior border, separating the posterior from the inner surface, descends from the subcutaneous triangular area of the olecranon, and is itself subcutaneous in its whole extent, the aponeurosis of the forearm being attached to it; but with regard to its position as seen during life, it is to be noted that while in semipronation it is sufficiently prominent to be used for leaning on, it is seen, during supination, nearly in the middle of the back view of the forearm, as a depressed line between the masses of flexor and extensor muscles descending from the two epicondyles of the humerus. The internal border is a smooth elevation descending from the tuberculated area of the brachialis anticus, and separating the anterior from the inner surface. The anterior surface, below the tuberculated area, is longitudinally grooved in more than half its extent, where it gives origin to muscular fibres of the flexor profundus digit- orum muscle, and is perforated towards the upper part of the groove by the upwardly directed arterial foramen for the medullary vessels; while on its lower part it presents a slight depression, limited internally by a line, indicating the origin of the pronator quadratus muscle. The internal surface is smooth throughout, and in its upper two-thirds is somewhat concave, giving origin in continuity with the grooved part of the anterior surface to the flexor profundus digitorum muscle. The posterior surface presents above on the outside of the olecranon a triangular area on which the anconeus muscle is inserted, separated below by an oblique line from a longitudinal groove descending on the inner half of the surface against which the extensor carpi ulnaris rests; and external to this are three oblique grooves, the uppermost of which, lying below the ridge of the supinator brevis, indicates the origin of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, while from the second the extensor secundi internodii pollicis takes rise, and from the lowest the extensor indicis.