THE MUSCLES. 252 of their fasciculi, or bundles of fibres. Comparing with regard to the extent and power of their contraction muscles of equal bulk, that in which the fasciculi are long, and stretch from end to end of the muscle, will produce the greater extent of motion ; that in which the bundles are shorter, more numerous, and oblique in their direction, will produce a smaller amount of motion, but will contract with greater power. The action of any individual muscle may be demonstrated in the body by approximating its attachments to one another, but it is seldom that a muscle acts individually, even in the simplest movements groups of muscles being called into play. Muscles which stretch over one joint are comparatively simple in their action; but in the case of those which pass over more than one joint, it is necessary before they can exert their power on any one particular joint that their actions on the other joints over which they pass should be neutralized and balanced by the con- traction of opposing muscles. Very many of the muscles cross over more than one joint, one of the advantages of the arrangement being that muscles, longer and more powerful than those the fibres of which simply pass between neighbouring skeletal pieces, are obtained and can exert their force upon parts comparatively distant; thus the slender digits are under the control of powerful muscles situated in the fleshy parts of the limbs. Muscles which pass over more than one joint play an important part as ligaments, and as such, without contracting, bring about during movements at the proximal joint simultaneous and opposite movement at the distal joint. Taking for the sake of example the muscles of the thigh: when the hip is flexed by the action of its special flexor muscles, the long muscles behind which pass over the hip and knee, acting simply as ligaments, produce a simultaneous flexion at the knee, and conversely, Avhen the hip is extended, the long muscles in front extend the knee. In the habitual movements and in the maintenance of the sustained positions of the body, the ligamentous action of the long muscles is specially important. On the other hand, the full contraction of these muscles is exhibited in the passage from one extreme of position to another, as in the movements associated with throwing a stone or kicking a football. In all the movements of the body, except those of the very simplest kind, simultaneous or nearly simultaneous action is taking place at a number of joints. The student will readily perceive that the study of the bodily movements, from the point of view of the muscles which produce them, is a very complicated one. Fasciae. The connective tissue of the body forms membranous sheets which underlie the skin and surround and separate from one another the muscles. To the membranous tissue which lies immediately under the skin the name superficial fascia is given; it is formed of two layers, the more superficial of which contains, in many cases, in its meshes a <jonsiderable quantity of fat; the deeper, which is comparatively free from fat, supports the trunks of the cutaneous vessels and nerves. In the