712 THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. When distended the stomach fills the greater part of the left hypochondrium, the epigastrium below the liver, and part of the right hypochondrium; and it may reach to as much as a foot in length, and five inches in width. In this state, also, it is changed in position in two respects: it is rotated so as to throw the inferior border forwards, in consequence of enlargement backwards being impossible, and it is thrown into a transverse position by the levels of the orifices remaining the same while the dimensions of the organ are increased. The nervous supply is from the pneumogastrics and the sympathetic. The left pneumogastric descends from the oesophagus on the front, and the right on the back of the stomach. The sympathetic branches accompany the arteries. Minute ganglia {of Remak) are scattered in the walls. The walls of the stomach present four coats, namely, the serous, muscular, submucous and mucous. The serous or peritoneal coat is derived in front from the general peri- toneum, and behind from the smaller sac, and is complete except along the lines of the great and small curvatures. Fig. 542.—Stomach everted to show muscles seen on removal of mucous membrane. 1, Oesophagus ; 2, duodenum ; 3, circular fibres ; 4, oblique fibres. (Luschka.) The muscular coat presents three different sets of fibres. The outermost are longitudinal, continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus, and are most abundant along the two curvatures. The intermediate layer is the most complete, and consists of circular fibres, which on the cardiac cul-de-sac are comparatively thin, but are interesting in respect that they form rings altogether to the left of the oesophageal orifice, and thus ' demonstrate it to be no mere expansion, but a caecal outgrowth such as is found more distinctly in many other mammals. The circular fibres become more abundant as the pylorus is approached, and take part in the formation of the valve by means of a specially developed thick ring. The innermost