THE LYMPHATICS. 498 LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Glands. One or two small glands are sometimes found by the side of the anterior tibial artery in front of the interosseous membrane of the leg. The popliteal glands, four or five in number, are usually small, and lie among the fat of the popliteal space, by the side of the artery. They receive the deep vessels of the leg and, in addition, the few superficial vessels which pass deeply with the external saphenous vein. The superficial inguinal glands (Fig. 372) form two groups; one, superior in position, forms an obliquely placed chain, parallel to Poupart's ligament; the other, inferior in position, is arranged in a vertical chain placed by the sides of the upper extremity of the internal saphenous vein. The individual glands are usually of considerable size. The inferior group, formed of four or five glands, receives all the superficial vessels of the lower limb with the exception of those of the gluteal region and the few which pass with the external saphenous vein into the popliteal space. The superior group is made up of a variable number of glands, usually eight or nine, which receive from above the superficial vessels of the lower part of the abdomen and back, and from below, internally, those from the penis, scrotum and perineum, and externally those from the gluteal region. The efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands pass through the saphenous opening, or pierce the fascia lata, and terminate, partly, in the deep inguinal and, partly, in the external iliac glands. The deep inguinal glands, three or four in number, lie by the side of the upper extremity of the femoral vein. They receive the great majority of the deep vessels of the lower limb and many of the efferent vessels from the superficial glands. Their own eff'erent vessels pass to the external iliac glands. Vessels. The superficial lymphatics (Fig. 372). A few from the back of the leg, ascending with the external saphenous vein, pass into the popliteal space and join the popliteal glands; by far the greater number are directed towards the internal saphenous vein, and ascend by its side to the inferior superficial inguinal glands. The superficial vessels of the gluteal region enter the outer part of the superior inguinal chain. The deep lymphatics accompany the arteries. Those by the side of the anterior tibial artery occasionally enter one or two glands which are sometimes found in front of the interosseous membrane. All those of the foot and leg pass to the popliteal glands, from which the efferent ducts ascend by the side of the femoral artery to the deep inguinal glands; the great majority of those from the thigh enter the deep inguinal glands, but one or two small vessels accompany the obturator artery and end in the internal iliac glands. The deep lym- phatics of the gluteal region pass with the gluteal and sciatic arteries to the internal iliac glands, one or more small extrapelvic glands being sometimes found in their course.