THE EYE. 663 in front of the equator of the lens, which, however, in the adult lens has disappeared, except in the most superficial fibres. The fibres, broad in the middle, are attenuated in part of their extent. They are bound together b}' a cement which is specially abundant and granular in the lines where the laminae break up (though, indeed, this has been denied). Those in the heart present hexagons in tranverse sections, while those at the circumference are flattened. But the most characteristic feature is that the edges present each a single row of what are usually described as serrations, which are in reality (as I find both in the horse and the human subject) pedunculated knobs, the peduncles being often the only parts seen on account of the extremities being broken off and lying about. The uncompressed fibres have six rows of knobs. Steeping in muriatic acid is good for their display. The fibres rest behind in contact with the capsule; and in this situation fluid, " liciuor Morgagni,'^ is liable to collect in drops after death. In front a single layer of squamous epithelium intervenes between the lens and the capsule; and at the circumference of the lens the cells of this epithelium are in series with short fibres, the latest additions to the structure of the lens itself. The capsule of the lens closely surrounds it and presents an anterior and h Fig. 499.—Human Lens and Suspensory Apparatus, 3. From preparation displayed in spirit, a, Canal of Petit; 6, canal opened into ; c, suspensory fibres of its anterior wall; d, plicated hyaloid membrane with ad- herent pigmentary corpuscles. Fig. 500.—Portion of Sus- pensory Ligament and Canal of Petit of Ox, ^, from specimen displayed in spirit, ab, Smooth hyaloid membrane ; he, attachment of zonular fibres ; cd, plica- tions of hyaloid membrane with secondary plications to fit into secondary recesses between ridges of ciliary processes; de, suspensory ligament with crowded hollow processes; ef, hair- like passages injected from canal of Petit; g, anterior wall of capsule ; h, posterior wall of capsule ; i, section of canal of Petit.