THE SKELETON. 218 fissure. The posterior or cerebral surface is continuous with the upper surface of the horizontal part; and another surface, looking downwards in continuity with the under surface of the horizontal part, forms with it the roof of the zygomatic fossa, giving origin to the upper head of the external pterygoid muscle. The external surface, separated from the lower by a temporo-zygomatic ridge, gives attachment to the temporal muscle. The remaining surface, looking forwards and inwards, forms portion of the outer wall of the orbit, and is bounded below by a free border, which separates it from a part looking into the spheno-maxiUary fossa, and is the upper'border of the spheno-raaxillary fissure. The pterygoid process projects downwards and somewhat forwards. It consists of an external and an internal pterygoid plate, united in front for more than half their length, but separated below by a rough-edged notch, into which the pyramidal process of the palatal fits so as to fill it up. The space left between the two plates looks backwards, and is called the pterygoid fossa. The external pterygoid pAaie is slightly everted and broader than the internal, and gives attachment by its outer and inner surfaces respectively to the external and internal pterygoid muscles. From its border a spicule or band sometimes extends back to the spinous process, completing a foramen through which the outer branches of the inferior maxillary nerves may pass. The irderncd pterygoid plate, after being continued down as far as the external, has a slender prolongation carried downwards and outwards, the hamular process ; and at the upper and inner part of the pterygoid fossa is a small depression, called scaphoid fossa, indicating the origin of the tensor or circumflexus palati muscle, whose tendon winds round the hamular pro- cess. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process expands above into an area reaching up to the orbital surface of the great wing, and forming the posterior wall of the spheuo-maxillary fossa. In the upper part of this wall the front of the foramen rotundum is seen, and internal to this, and below it, the anterior opening of the Vidian canal, which, lying between the originally separate ossification of the internal pterygoid plate and the rest of the sphenoid, transmits the Vidian nerve and vessels, and passes backwards to reach the foramen lacerurn medium, a ragged aperture left between the sphenoid, the petrous portion of the temporal and the basilar process of the occipital. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone possesses considerable complexity, partly owing to its connection with the organ of hearing, and partly to its being com- posed of heterogeneous parts which happen to be united in the human subject by osseous substance. It is usually described as consisting of three parts, the squamous, the mastoid and the pjetrous. But of these the squamous is the only part which can claim to be a single distinct element in development and comparative anatomy; thus, the mastoid is at no period a completed structure separate from the petrous, and it is cus-