THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. 706 The glands of the tongue are small acinated glands embedded in the muscular substance. Two minute groups, known as glands of Nuhn or glands of Blandin, are placed on the inner margins of the inferior lingual muscles close to the tip. Others open into the circular depressions round the circumvallate papillae, others into the crypts at the back of the tongue, and others on the margins. Also a row of openings, not usually noticed, lies in the recess concealed by the plica fimbriata. The secreting cells of these glands are many of them of the serous type. The tonsils {amygdalae) are spongy developments of the mucous mem- brane, which are situated on the sides of the fauces between their anterior and posterior pillars. They are slightly convex on the surface and present a number of irregular orifices leading into crypts simple and branched, and are about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Their thickness and prominence is principally due to closed follicles (p. 68) which are ranged all round the crypts and are embedded in retiform tissue. They rest on fibres of the superior constrictors of the pharynx which lie between them and the internal carotid arteries. . - * THE SALIVAPvY GLANDS. There are three pairs of glands distinguished as saliv^ary which all secrete alkaline saliva containing ptyaline and contrasting with the acid mucus of the labial glands. They are all of them acinated glands, the secreting cells presenting in certain cases the appearance termed serous, and in others that which is distinguished as mucous (p. 58); and beneath the secreting cells so distinguished are others spread out on the basement membrane and pushing in between them, the lunules or crescents of Gianuzzi. The ducts have vertically striated columnar epithelium, excepting close to the acini, where there is an intercalary portion with flattened epithelium. The parotid gland. This is the largest of the salivary glands. It occupies the space below the ear between the sterno-mastoid muscle and the ramus of the jaw, and extends forwards over the back part of the masseter muscle. Superiorly, it dips deeply in, both in front and behind the styloid process, filling up the interval between the jaw in front and the mastoid process and sterno-mastoid muscle behind. Inferiorly, it extends as low as the angle of the jaw, resting on the stylo-maxillary ligament or fascia, which separates it from the position of the sub- maxillary gland so effectually that, however much both glands may be swollen, they always remain quite distinct. Embedded in the parotid are the external carotid artery and origins of posterior auricular, superficial temporal and internal maxillary; also, more superficially, the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins; and piercing the gland from the posterior and deep part so as to emerge in front are the branches of the facial nerve, while others from the great auricular nerve enter from below and are connected with them. The duct, called usually Stenson's duct (ductus Stenonis), emerges from the anterior border of the gland at