295 MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. the space the artery crosses the insertion of the adductor longus, and still further down passes backwards through the adductor magnus to the popliteal space. From the anterior surface of the insertions of the adductor longus and adductor magnus in the middle third of the thigh, membranous fibres crossing the femoral vessels pass outwards to the vastus internus and form the anterior wall of a three-sided passage called Hunter's canal. The deep femoral branch of the main arterial stem courses behind the adductor longus and gives off a number of perforating branches which pass backwards through the adductor magnus to the posterior region of the thigh. The muscles, with the exception of the pectineus, are supplied by the obturator nerve. The pectineus receives its supply from the anterior crural but has an occasional twig from the obturator. The adductor magnus receives an additional twig from the great sciatic. The gracilis springs by a short, thin tendon from the rough line close to the symphysis on the lower part of the body of the pubis, and from the anterior margin of the pubic portion of the ischio-pubic ramus. The body of the muscle, flattened and slender, passes down superficially on the inner aspect of the thigh, and narrows in the lower third to a tendon which, somewhat expanded at its termination, is inserted behind the sartorius and above the semitendinosus into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia at the upper end. The pectineus arises from the ilio-pectineal line and the smooth surface in front of it in the region between the spine of the pubis and the ilio- pectineal eminence. It is inserted into the upper part of the line leading from the linea aspera to the back of the small trochanter. Superficial at its origin it rapidly passes backwards in the floor of Scarpa's triangle. The ilio-psoas muscle is in contact with it externally. The adductor longus, triangular in outline, springs by a short, narrow tendon from the body of the pubis at the anterior and inner angle. It is inserted by aponeurotic fibres closely associated with the insertion of the adductor magnus into the inner edge of the linea aspera. In its greater part it is superficial, but near its insertion it is crossed by the femoral vessels and the sartorius. The pectineus lies at its outer edge, the gracilis internally, the adductor brevis is posterior to it at its origin, and the adductor magnus is behind it lower down. The adductor brevis, deeply placed, springs from the body of the pubis below the adductor longus and between the gracilis and obturator externus. It is inserted into the line leading from the linea aspera to the back of the small trochanter, lying behind the lower portion of the pectineus above and reaching to the adductor longus below. The muscle is frequently split into two portions at its insertion by the first perforating branch of the deep femoral artery. The adductor magnus springs from the surface of the ischio-pubic ramus, and in addition spreads in its origin backwards on the tuberosity as far as the