800 THE EEPEODUCTIVE ORGANS. The galadopherous duds are from twelve to twenty, and open by minute orifices at the extremity of the nipple. Traced backwards, each gradually enlarges, forming an ampulla or sinus widest towards its deep end, where it is capable of being swollen to quarter of an inch or more in diameter, and extending an inch or more from the base of the nipple. Each ampulla originates in the union of two ducts, themselves formed by the union of others in pairs. In sections of specimens prepared with acid {e.g. sulphuric) the closely set and larger masses of secreting lobes are seen arranged at the circumference, while in the deeper parts the sections of lobules are small and separated by copious connective tissue, and in the centre the connective tissue is collected in a large mass between and around the ampullae. The walls of the ducts are highly elastic and lined with columnar epithelium. The nipple {mammilla) and the rosy ring around it {areola) have adherent to the integument a well-marked layer of circularly arranged unstriped muscle which no doubt in contracting obstructs the cutaneous veins, and in conjunction with a considerable vascularity of these parts causes turgidity, approaching in the nipple to erection. The interior of the nipple is destitute of fat and contains the narrowing ducts emerging from the ampullae. The areola often presents a tuberculated appearance dependent on large sebaceous glands (glands of Montgomery). In the male the mammary gland, though rudimentary, is complete in its parts, its feeble development being merely the permanence of the con- dition in children both male and female. Vessels and nerves. The arteries are derived in an inconstant manner from the long thoracic or external mammary and some of the anterior intercostal branches of the internal mammary. The nerves are from anterior and lateral cutaneous branches of intercostal nerves. The lymphatics pass principally to the axillary glands, but some of them join the internal mammary plexus. Supernumerary mammae occasionally occur both on the chest and on other parts. They are mostly small and liable to be mistaken for moles, but one or more may reach a considerable size.