THE MUSCLES. THE INFRA-HYOID GROUP. This group comprises the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, thyro-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles. The sterno-hyoid arises, along a narrow line, from the posterior surface of the inner extremity of the clavicle, the sterno-clavicular capsule, and, to a small extent, the manubrium sterni. It is inserted close to the middle line into the inner part of the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. The muscle is ribbon-shaped, and varies in breadth from about one inch to one inch and a half. The sterno-thyroid arises, close to the middle line, from the posterior surface of the manubrium, and from the cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the oblique line of the ala of the thyroid cartilage. It lies behind the sterno-hyoid, and is usually a little broader than that muscle. The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and is inserted into the lower margin of the outer part of the body and the basal portion of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. It continues the line of the sterno-thyroid, and at its insertion is, to a great extent, covered by the omo-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles. The omo-hyoid is formed of two ribbon-shaped bellies and an intervening tendon. The posterior belly rises from the upper margin of the scapula in the vicinity of the notch, and passes forwards and slightly upwards in the neck to the tendon, which lies beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle. The anterior belly ascends from the tendon with a slight inclination inwards to its insertion into the lower border of the outer part of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations. The sterno-hyoid muscles of opposite sides converge as they ascend, the sterno thyroids, close together below, diverge as they pass upwards. The muscles lie in front of the trachea and thyroid body, but a little above the sternum a narrow interval is left in the middle line, in which the windpipe is exposed, having, however, on its surface some fatty tissue, in which lie the inferior thyroid veins. At their origin the sterno- thyroid muscles lie in front of the innominate and left carotid arteries and the left innominate vein. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid forms the upper boundary of a space, the other margins of which are formed by the clavicle and the sterno-mastoid, the subclavian triangle, in which the third part of the subclavian artery, surrounded by the cords of the brachial plexus, is sought for by the surgeon in the operation for ligature. A double layer of the deep cervical fascia binds down the posterior belly and intervening tendon of the muscle to the clavicle and the first rib and passes in front of the artery. The anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, in escaping from the cover of the sterno-mastoid at the level of the cricoid cartilage, crosses over the common carotid artery, and the angle between the two muscles is the spot where the ligature is usually applied to the vessel. Between the thyro-hyoid membrane and