343 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. vertically, the posterior passing forwards almost horizontally. It is inserted by tendon into the upper and anterior borders of the coronoid process, and partly by tendon and partly by fleshy fibres into the whole inner surface of the process and into the anterior area 'of the inner surface of the ramus. The external pterygoid muscle arises from the walls of the zygomatic fossa by two fleshy heads—the upper from the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, the lower and larger from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres, converging, pass backwards and a little outwards, and are inserted partly into the depression on the front of the head of the lower maxilla, and i)artly into the inter-articular fibro-plate of the temporo-maxillary articulation. Fig. 275.—The Temporal Muscle. The fibres at a are reflected forwards ; they arise from the temporal fascia, and are inserted into the anterior border of the coronoid process: h, the temporo- maxillary articulation represented as when the mouth is shut. Fig. 276.—The Pterygoid Muscles, from the outer side after removal of part of the lower jaw. o, External pterygoid ; h, inter- nal pterygoid ; c, buccinator ; d, temporo- maxillary articulation represented as when the mouth is open. The internal pterygoid muscle arises in the pterygoid fossa from the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, partly by fleshy fibres, and partly by a flattened tendon which is continued within the substance of the muscle. Additional fibres take origin, external to the lower fibres of the external pterygoid, from the outer surface of the tuberosity of the palate, and the neighbouring area of the superior maxilla. It is directed downwards, backwards, and outwards, and is inserted into a rough impres- sion on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw at the angle. Relations. The masseter is entirely superficial, and the temporal almost entirely so. The other two are deeply placed in the zygomatic fossa. The heads of the external pterygoid are placed one on each side of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and the muscle, in reaching to its insertion, passes between the internal lateral ligament of the articulation (spheno-maxillary ligament) and the inner surface of the lower maxilla. The internal pterygoid arises, for the greater part, on the deep surface of the external pterygoid, and has the tensor palati on its internal aspect.