778 THE EEPEODUCTIVE ORCxANS. crossing the folds, and even joining the vesiculae seminales of opposite sides. The ejaculatory ducts, one on each side, are formed each by the union of the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens. They are not much more than half an inch in length, extending from the base of the prostate, between the lateral and middle lobes to open into the floor of the urethra, slightly in front and to one side of the sinus pocularis. Each narrows from its commencement to its termination, where it is only wide enough to admit a fine bristle. Its walls are thinner than those of the vas deferens and vesicula seminalis, but are supported by the prostatic structures. II. The Prostate, Penis and Urethra. Firmly united to the neck of the bladder in the male there is a firm and thick mass, the prostate gland; and it is in the part of its course within the prostate that the urethra receives the openings of the ejaculatory ducts, and becomes a common genito-urinary passage. Half-an inch beyond the pro- state, the urethra emerges outside the pelvis, having pierced the triangular ligament, and is surrounded by an erectile structure, the corpus spongiosum, which, together with the two corpora cavernosa, the glans and integuments, enters into the structure of the penis. The prostate gland is a structure aptly enough compared in shape and size to a chestnut. Its base surrounds the outlet of the bladder; it is elongated and convex behind and comparatively short in front, and owes its name to the erroneous conceptions formerly prevalent as to the position of the pelvis in the erect posture, which led it to be supposed that the prostate lay in front of the bladder, whereas in the erect posture it really lies below it. It rests behind on the rectum, and can be felt through the rectal wall above the internal sphincter, and below and in front of the trigone of the bladder. It is supported by both anterior and lateral true liga- ments of the bladder, formed by the recto-vesical fascia (p. 393), and in front of these is separated from the posterior layer of the triangular ligament or subpubic fascia by the anterior fibres of the levatores ani. The recto-vesical fascia invests it with a strong fibrous capsule, and where the fibres of this capsule extend to the bladder, an angular interval is left round the base, which lithotomists avoid, because the looseness of the tissue contained in it is apt to lead to urinary infiltration, and the prostatic plexus of veins is liable to be specially developed at the base. The prostate has a bilobate appearance as seen from behind, and when the ejaculatory ducts are followed into its substance the greater part of it is found to be in continuity with these lateral lobes; but between the structure through which the ejaculatory ducts pass and the bladder there is left a mesial third lobe. Structure. This structure is partly muscular and partly glandular. The glands open by about twenty orifices into the floor of the urethra. They are elongated branching tubules with sparse and small acini at their extremities.