692 VISCEEA. The hepatic and splenic flexures of the colon are only partially sur- rounded with peritoneum, and above the hepatic flexure the peritoneum is in contact with the upper part of the right kidney. At the right and left sides of the posterior wall of the abdomen the ascending and descending colon are retained in position by the peritoneum failing, as a rule, to invest them completely; but portions of mesocolon may exist in connection with both one and other. The vermiform i appendage of the caecum has always a mesenteric fold. Below the | descending colon the sigmoid flexure is attached by an elongated mesentery ! continuous below with the mesorectum which intervenes between the upper part of the rectum and the sacrum. The mesentery, properly so called, is a fold of the peritoneum between the posterior wall of the abdomen and the whole length of the jejunum and ileum. At its intestinal edge it has the length of the intestines round > which its layers are prolonged, but at the parietal edge it has a short ] straight line of attachment extending from where the transverse mesocolon crosses the mesial plane as far as the position of the caecum in the right iliac fossa, altogether a distance not more than five inches long. At its commencement it lies on the last part of the duodenum in such a manner 1 as to leave a detectable portion to the right, clothed in front with peri- toneum between mesentery and transverse colon, while half the breadth ; of the last two inches can invariably be seen on the left (Fig. 551). Within the pelvis the peritoneum in the male presents a redo-vesical pouch descending between the bladder and rectum down to near the entrance of i the ureters into the bladder. On each side a linear prominence is formed by the obliterated hypogastric artery passing forwards; and it is customary to distinguish the portions of peritoneum extending to the bladder as five false ligamsnts of the bladder, the parts below the hypogastric arteries con- \ stituting the two posterior ligaments, those above and outside them being j the two lateral ligaments, and the mesial part above and between them being the anterior false ligameiit. In the female the uterus and vagina lie behind the bladder, and the ' peritoneum covers the posterior aspect of the uterus and upper part of the vagina, thus forming a recto vaginal pouch (povch of Douglas). It also clothes j the greater part of the front of the uterus, and on each side is extended : so as to form the broad ligament of the uterus {ala vespertilionis). This surrounds the Fallopian tube, attaching it by a wide fold to the pelvic j wall, and anteriorly invests partially the round ligament of the uterus, while posteriorly there comes off" from it another fold which at its free edge completely surrounds the ovary, and less completely the round liga- ment of the ovary. The openings of the fimbriated extremities of the , Fallopian tubes ofter the only exception in mammalia to the rule that | serous membranes become in process of development completely closed | sacs; but it is to be remembered that in the lower vertebrates abdominal - pores occur.