229 THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. After loss of a tooth the walls of its socket become absorbed, and when s\\ have been lost, the whole dental margin disappears, and even further absorption takes place, greatly diminishing the size of the hard palate and making it flat. Lachrymal bone Ethmoid Supra-orbital notch Fronto-nasal suture — Fronto-maxillary suture LachrjTiial groove Nasal duct Lower process of lachrymal Uncinate process of ethmoid — — Inferior turbinate bone Palatal Incisor fossa-- Canine fossa, infra- orbital foramen Anterior internal orbital canal Posterior internal orbital canal Sphenoidal turbinate, orbital plate Optic foramen Orbital process of palatal Foramen rotundum Vidian canal Pterygo-palatine canal Spheno-palatine foramen Posterior palatine canal Tuberosity of palatal Fig. 212.—Vertical Section of Left Side of Face, passing through orbit and maxillary sinus. (The orbital plate of the sphenoidal turbinated is very unusually large.) THE PALATAL BONE. The palatal or palate bone consists of a horizontal or palate plate, a vertical plate, and a thick pyramidal process projecting backwards and outwards from the back of the line of junction between the two plates. The palate plate lies altogether internal to the dental arch of tbe maxilla; it articulates in front with the palate plate of that bone, and, in the same manner as that plate, it articulates with its fellow of the opposite side and comes in contact with the vomer; while, behind, it has a free concave margin giving attachment to the tensor palati, and forms with its fellow a mesial projection, the palatal spine, from which springs the agygos uvuli. The pyramidal process or tuberosity has two triangular free surfaces— one continued backwards and outwards from the palate, and the other, with its base separated from the first by a free margin, and looking back- wards to fill the gap between the pterygoid plates and so complete the pterygoid fossa. On the sides of this surface are rough borders for articulation with the pterygoid plates, and the outer of these is limited in front by a projecting line, sometimes scarcely apparent, but sufficient to prevent the external pterygoid plate from coming in contact with the maxilla below the spheno-maxillary fossa.