THE VEETEBRAL COLUMN. wards one over another in the middle of the series, ending in a blunt point, and springing gradually from the laminae, whose upper borders unite to form a mesial ridge separating a right from a left side, while a third is left inferiorly. The transverse processes are cylindrical, inclined to a marked degree backwards, and swollen at the extremity, in front of which, except on the eleventh and twelfth, there is an articular surface looking forwards and upwards for the tubercle of the corresponding rib. The transverse processes decrease regularly in length from the first to the last, in which they are represented by three tubercles slightly connected by a short neck which may be almost absent, and these tubercles are homologous with three projections on the swollen ends of the typical thoracic transverse processes, One of these projections, external, is a ridge for the posterior costo-transverse ligament; a second, internal, gives attach- ment to the semispinalis and multifidus spinae muscles; while the third, inferior, gives attachment to the inner insertions of the longissimus dorsi muscle. The inferior notches are deep, the superior shallow and due altogether to the superior articular processes striking up behind them. The articular processes project in directions continuous with the margins of the laminae, the superior rising above the level of the rest of the ver- tebra, while the inferior are mere lateral expansions of the laminae. The articular surfaces are almost vertical, the superior looking backwards and outwards, the inferior forwards and inwards, and both lying in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the front of the body, an arrangement favour- able for rotation. Special characters of certain thoracic vertebrae. The first has the upper of the two pairs of costal surfaces on its body placed some distance down a h Fig. 116.—First Thoracic Vertebra from above, a, Facet for head of first rib ; b, for tubercle of first rib ; c, for upper part of head of second rib. a Fig. 117.—Twelfth Thoracic Vertebra, a, b, Superior and inferior articular processes; c, d, in- ternal and inferior tubercles of transverse process (corresponding with mammillary, and accessory processes ofa lumbar vertebra); e, costal facet elevated above into an outer tubercle of the transverse process. and shaped to receive the Avhole head of the first rib; also the non-central parts of its body project upwards after the fashion of a cervical vertebra, deepening the superior notches. The tenth, eleventh and twelfth articulate