373 MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The two layers of muscles acting together would tend to approximate the ribs in series to the more fixed extremity of the thorax. In ordinary inspiration an actual approximation takes place in the case of the first and second spaces, the first rib remaining practically stationary, the second and third being elevated ; and in the succeeding spaces it seems probable that, in the altered conditions brought about by the elevation of the upper ribs, the contraction of both layers of muscles would be required to maintain the parallelism of the ribs and support the thoracic wall. As the successive ribs are being elevated together the fibres of the internal intercostals will, from their direction, tend to be stretched, but the slight eversion of the lower border of the greater part of the rib which takes place during the movement will have a counterbalancing effect. In forced expiration, when the lower ribs are fixed by the con- traction of the muscles of the abdominal wall, contraction of the inter- costal muscles of the lower spaces will tend to diminish the size of the thoracic cavity. In full mspiration a number of additional muscles are called into action. The vertebral column is extended; the sternum and the first and following ribs are elevated by the sterno-mastoid and scaleni muscles. In forced inspiration, with the arms fixed, the pectoralis minor and parts of the pectoralis major and serratus magnus, give powerful assist- ance. In ordinary expiration little or no muscular effort is required, the natural elasticity of parts bringing about recoil. In forced expiration the vertebral column is flexed, and the muscles which act upon the lower ribs, particularly those of the abdominal wall, are called into play : the tri- angularis sterni and possibly also the lower intercostals assist. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. The cavity is separated from the thorax by the diaphragm, below it passes into the pelvis. The wall is partly formed by ribs, vertebral column, and pelvic bones, and is completed by various muscles and fasciae. The anterior and lateral portions of the wall are chiefly formed by three broad muscles on each side superimposed upon one another, named, from without inwards, respectively the external oblique, the internal oblique, and the transversalis. Over the lateral area of the wall they are fleshy, but in front they pass into thin expanded tendons, which meet in the middle line with one another, and with the similarly united tendons of the opposite side in a raphe which extends from the ensiform process to the upper margin of the symphysis pubis, and is named the linea alba. A cicatricial depression a little below the middle of this line is named the umbUicu.^. A long, vertically placed muscle, the rectus abdominis, lies by the side of the linea alba, and is inclosed in a sheath which is formed by the separation into two hivers of the tendon of the internal oblique, one portion strengthened by junction