DUCTLESS GLANDS. 758 THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. The suprarenal bodies or capsules, or more properly the adrenals (Owen), are two flat bodies close above the kidneys, an inch and a half or more long, about an inch high, and diminishing in thickness from below upwards. The inferior edge of each fits over the convex upper end of the kidney, and an outer and an inner straight side slope upwards to a blunt apex. Its anterior surface is marked in the middle by a horizontal fissure, the Kilus. It is of a dull ochreous colour, and is soft and easily torn, breaking open readily so as to lay bare a deeper brown and exceedingly soft- texture in the interior, distinguished as the medullary part, while the surrounding substance is called the cortical. The right body is covered by the liver, Fig. 593.—Right Suprarenal Capsule and Solar Plexus from right side, a, Kidney ; h, at the outer end of the hilus of the suprarenal capsule. The vein is shown emerging from the hilus, and the nerves and arteries entering the circumference of the capsule. The capsular nerves are seen, most of them coming from the semilunar ganglion. c. Aorta and aortic plexus ; d, renal artery and renal plexus; e, coeliac axis and coeliac plexus ; superior mesenteric artery and plexus ; g, inferior phrenic artery. the left by the spleen and pancreas, and both lie on the crura of the diaphragm, external to the solar plexus. At their margins they receive numbers of nerves from the solar and renal plexuses, and numbers of small arteries coming irregularly from the phrenic, the aorta and the renal. The arteries break up into smaller branches on the surface and supply the cortical part with a capillary network, whence the venous radicles gather the blood into the medullary part, to escape from the hilus by larger branches which unite into a single trunk, ending on the right side in the inferior vena cava and on the left in the left renal vein. The cortical part examined micro- scopically exhibits a fibrous stroma continuous with a sheath round the whole organ, and ending on the deep side in a bounding layer separating it from