717 THE STOMACH. piercing the mnscularis mucosae the arteries break up into a network of capillaries for the supply of the glands; and on the surface there is a closer capillary network from which the venous radicles, fewer in number than the arterioles, and larger, descend in straight course, taking at once Eway from the tissue the impure blood to which have been added sub- tances imbibed from the cavity of the viscus. The lymphatics begin near the surface of the mucous membrane in loops and dilated spaces which fall into a finer network, whence vessels pierce the muscularis mucosae to enter the valved lym- phatics of the submucous coat. THE INTESTINE. The intestine extends from the pyloric valve to the anus, and is divided into small and great intestines, separated one from the other by the ileo-colic valve. It presents a more or less complete peritoneal covering, a muscular coat arranged in two layers, of which the outer consists of longitudinal and the inner of circular fibres, and a mucous membrane separated from the muscular coat by a submucous coat of loose connective tissue thinner than that of the stomach. The small intestine is counted as about twenty feet in length and is characterized throughout by its regular cylindrical form and the even distribution of both the thin longitudinal and the thicker circular muscular fibres. Its diameter diminishes gradually from the commence- ment, where it reaches from an inch and a quarter to an inch and a half, as far as its termina- tion, where it is less than an jejunum and ileum. The duodenum is that part which is fixed in position and destitute of mesentery. It is about nine or ten inches long, Fig. 550.—Abdominal Part of Di Oesophageal opening of stomach ; I', duodenum ; c to il, jejunum and il attachment of mesentery ; d, above t the ascending colon, and opposite tli e, vermiform appendage; /, g, /i, asci and descending colon ; sigmoid flexi ivK Tl'be. a, (,in-; h to c, with line of :iL(mil, below . lie valve •,, UiUisverse rectum. inch. It is divided into duodenum, and "ot its name to