THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 438 wards to anastomose with the posterior circumflex of the axillary; and a slender nutrient artery enters a foramen on the back of the humerus. (3) The inferior profunda artery arises from the brachial, a little above the middle of the arm, and descends behind the internal intermuscular septum, in company with the ulnar nerve, to the space between the internal epicondyle and the olecranon, where it anastomoses with the pos- terior recurrent branch of the ulnar and with the anastomotic artery. (4) The nutrient artery of the humerus is variable in its origin, springing either directly from the main stem or from one of the branches. It is directed downwards and enters a canal near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. (5) The anastomotic artery springs from the inner margin of the brachial, about two inches above the elbow. It anastomoses, under cover of the pronator teres muscle, with the anterior recurrent branch of the ulnar, and a branch pierces the internal intermuscular septum and winds round the back of the humerus, anastomosing with the posterior recurrent of the ulnar, the inferior profunda, and the superior profunda arteries. Varieties of the brachial artery. Sometimes the brachial artery is found to deviate inwards from its usual course, passing, in company with the median nerve, round a supracondyloid process, and only regaining its normal position at the elbow; and even when no such process, or at best but a rudimentary bony elevation, is present, the vessel has been found with a considerable inward deflection, being bound down by fibres of the pronator teres or brachialis anticus. Frequently this variation in the course of the brachial artery co-exists with another abnormality, namely, the presence of another large arterial stem in the arm. The additional vessel springs from the axillary or from the upper part of the brachial, and descends along the usual line by the inner edge of the biceps to join the lower part of the brachial, or be continued into one of its main branches. It is in all probability derived from an enlargement of anastomotic connections between branches of the brachial ramifying in the biceps muscle and in the deep fascia, and similar branches of the main arteries of the forearm. At other times, even though the true brachial artery is not deflected from its usual course, it is reduced in calibre, and is accompanied, side by side, by an additional artery. In these circumstances the abnormal vessel is always placed in front of the median nerve, while the true brachial lies behind the nerve. The abnormal stem is variable in diameter; it may be of greater calibre than the true brachial, and may be continued below into one or more of the branches usually arising from the brachial artery. Further, it frequently happens that, when only one artery descends in the limb, occupying apparently the usual line, it is found in front of instead of behind the median nerve; in such a case it is probable that the true brachial has entirely disappeared, a more superficial stem replacing it. The presence of more than one artery in the arm is frequent, the average being about one in every five cases. Sometimes, but rarely, the