392 THE MUSCLES. A set of fibres passing obliquely backwards from the fore part of the sub- pubic arch on each side to the urethra and anterior part of the prostate has been described as the muscle of Wilson; its presence is denied by many anatomists. The constrictor urethrae, or deep transverse muscle, of the female con- sists of fibres partly transverse and partly oblique in direction, arising from the inferior pubic and ischial rami on each side, and passing inwards between the layers of the triangular ligament to blend with the vaginal wall and surround the urethra. Nerves. All the muscles of the perineum, with the exception of the coccygeus, are supplied by the pudic nerve. The coccygeus receives its supply from the coccygeal plexus; the fourth sacral nerve sends an addi- tional branch to the levator ani. Actions. The sphincter ani firmly closes the anal aperture. The fibres of the levatores ani which are attached to the wall of the bowel raise the lower part of the rectum and oppose the action of the sphincter; those fibres which pass across the side of the bowel to the ano-coccygeal raphe raise and compress the lower part of the rectum, and assist in the evacuation of its contents. The erectores penis, by compressing the crura, bring about erection of the penis. The bulbo cavernosus and constrictor urethrae com- press the urethral canal, and assist in expelling its contents. FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. The superficial fciscia of the posterior part of the perineum sinks very deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, and is heavily loaded with fat. In the anterior part of the perineum the deeper layer of the superficial fascia is known as Colles' fascia. In front it is continuous with the dartos; at the sides it is bound down to the margins of the ischio-pubic arch ex- tending as far backwards as the ischial tuberosity; behind it bends deeply round the superficial transverse muscle and joins the posterior edge of the triangular ligament. Between it and the triangular ligament lie the crura and bulb; the superficial perineal vessels and nerves pierce it in their passage forwards to the scrotum. An incomplete vertical septum in the middle line separates the space into lateral portions. From the attach- ments of the fascia it follows that fluid eff'used between it and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament cannot pass backwards to the posterior part of the perineal space or outwards into the thighs, but may pass for- wards to the anterior abdominal wall. The pelvic fascia is continued downwards from the abdominal walls, and is therefore continuous with the iliac and transversalis fascia. It is attached firmly to the ilio-pectineal line. In the posterior part of the pelvis it forms a thin layer which covers the pyriformis muscle and the nerves of the sacral plexus, and is pierced by the branches of the internal iliac vessels which pass through the great sacro-sciatic notch. In front of