91 EMBRYOLOGY. The remainder of the cylinder is developed into spinal cord. At the edge of the medullary groove, as it closes and becomes separated from the rest y A'' •f f) .s -' pr FiG. 95.—Chick and Ger- minal Area of about 24 Hours. Fresh. The medul- Liry folds more extensively united in the head. Tlie four first segments of the neck distinct, with the medullary folds at their level still open. Beneath this, the part in which succeeding segments have to be developed, and, still lower, pr, the primitive groove. A B Fig. 96.—Forepart OF Chick of36 Hours. Alive. A, Dorsal view : a, front of optic commissure, with first cerebral vesicle and primary optic vesi- cles above it, and second cerebral vesicle below ; 6, constriction between second and third cerebral vesicle ; c, auditory pit opposite the division be- tween the fourth and fifth compartments of the third cerebral vesicle ; d, heart; e, first meso- blastic somite. B, Ventral view: a, bifurcating flexed extremitj' of first cerebral vesicle ; b, noto- chord ; c, auditory pit ; d, heart. of the epiblast, there is an everted margin whence spring the nerves and spinal ganglia. The notochord. Beneath the medullary groove, immediately after its commencement, a rod-like structure makes its appearance in the middle line, dimly visible from the surface, but seen in section to be deeply placed. This is the notochord or chorda dorsalis, round which the bodies Fig. 97.~Transverse Section of Embryo Rabbit, showing—c/e, commencing notochord continuous opposite * and * with A, the hypoblast, and and the parietal and visceral layers of the mesoblast. (Hertwig, from E. van Beneden.) of the vertebrae are afterwards developed. It is at first continuous on each side with both hypoblast and mesoblast; but it becomes rapidly separated from the hypoblast and converted into a rod-like structure between the right and left halves of the mesoblast. Posteriorly, it is continuous with the epiblast at the blastopore or neurenteric canal. The