112 SYSTEMATIC ANATOMY. body of the vertebra following. The ring is large and triangular. The laminae have oblique surfaces, and meet by their upper margins to form spines and again diverge. Thus the spines are bifid, and grooved on their under surface. The articular surfaces look, the upper pairs upwards and backwards, the lower pairs downwards and forwards, and so oblique is- their inclination that when in position the articular processes on which they are placed form together two considerable pillars supplementing the bodies in the support of the head. From the third to the seventh the cervical vertebrae increase regularly in all dimensions, including length of spine and width between the extremities of their transverse processes. The seventh cervical vertebra has the spine ending in a subcutaneous tubercle like the succeeding vertebrae, and is named on that account vertebra prominens. The posterior tubercle of its transverse process is more prominent than the anterior, and the inferior surface of the body is not prolonged downwards in front. The atlas and axis owe their most striking peculiarities to the cir^ cumstance that in process of development the centrum of the atlas is modified in shape, separated from the rest of that bone, and united to- the centrum of the axis, forming what is called its odontoid process, while the ventral extremities of the arch of the atlas become united by a centre of ossification which forms a bar gliding on the front of the odontoid process.^ The atlas incloses within an anterior and a posterior arch a large ring, the fore part of which is smaller than the hinder, and separated from it in the recent state by a transverse ligament extending between two lateral masses so as to lie behind the odontoid process of the axis and form the posterior part of a circle for its reception. On the back of the anterior c d d e Fig. 122.—Atlas. o, Posterior tubercle; 6, anterior tubercle ; c, c, superior articular surfaces; d, d, tips of the vertebral parts of the transverse processes ; e, e, tips of the costal parts of the trans- verse processes ; /, upper orifice of left arterio-verte- bral foramen ; g, groove (only partially seen), on which bay the vertebral artery and suboccipital nerve—i, i, are placed outside the outer edges of the inferior articular surfaces. Fig. 123.—Axis, a, Odontoid process; b, b, superior articular surfaces ; c, centrum; d, arterio-vertebral foramen ; e, tip of trans- v^erse process ; /, inferior articular process; g, strongly bifid spinous process. It is remarkable that this arrangement exists not only in mammals, but in reptiles and birds, though it is generally admitted that mammals are not descended from either.