204 THE SKELETON. The patella begins to ossify in the third year. The tibia begins to ossify about the same time as the femur, and the Jibula soon after. Each has an upper and a lower epiphysis. The upper epiphysis of the tibia is large, including the tuberosities and descending in front to include that part of the tubercle covered by the bursa, but not the portion on which the ligamentum patellae pulls. It makes its first appear- ance at the time of birth, and the part for the tubercle may have a separate nucleus. The upper epiphysis of the fibula does not appear till the third or fourth year. The lower epiphyses of these bones unite after the eighteenth year, and the upper about the twenty-second. Fig. 195.-KIUHT Tibia It will be remarked that while the bones of AND Fibula approaching i « -in THE FULL SIZE, witii their the arm and lorearm have those epiphyses first epiphyses still distinct. . ipi'ii i n -i^- united to the shait which abut on the elbow, it is at the ends furthest from the knee-joint that the epiphyses of the femur and leg-bones first become united; and it has been noted in con- nection with this that the arterial foramina of the bones of the upper and lower limbs are in opposite directions, pointing the artery to the seat of earlier ossification. In the tarsus the only bone with an epiphysis is the calcaneum. This bone shows its principal nucleus in the sixth month, and its epiphysis about the tenth year. Ossification appears in the astragalus about the seventh month, in the cuboid about the time of birth, in the external <3uneiform in the first year, in the internal cuneiform about the second year, in the middle cuneiform about the third year, and in the scaphoid about the seventh year. The metatarsals and phalanges are similar in development to the corresponding bones of the hand; but they are a little later in beginning to ossify. III. THE SKULL. The skull is divisible into the cranium, or portion surrounding the brain, and the face. The lower jaw or mandible is articulated with the cranium by means of a pair of complete or synovial articulations. The rest of the skull consists of portions which, even after maceration, are immov- ably fitted together, but remain ununited by osseous continuity for very different lengths of time. It is very much a question of convenience what portions are to be considered as separate bones; but, with some exceptions, the parts which are generally so recognized are each united into one mass in the young adult, and still separable from others. The <jranial bones are counted as eight, viz., the occipital, the two parietals, the frontal, the sphenoid, the ethmoid, and the two temporals. The