241 THE SHAPE OF THE SKULL. tically, passing through a constant series of forms. During the latter half of foetal life the proportion borne by the base to the upper part of the skull gradually diminishes, till at birth it reaches the smallest proportion ; and from that time it goes on increasing both in length and breadth. About a month before birth the parietal region reaches its maximum pre- ponderance over the frontal and occipital; and these, but especially the frontal, henceforth grow more rapidly, till the adult proportions are reached. The roof is at birth, as also in the foetal state, elevated in the middle line, and uniformly undergoes in early childhood a flattening due to rise of the parietal and frontal eminences; but it again rises in adolescence. The angle at which the front of the face lies to the anterior fossa of the base {orbifo-nasal angle) is greater at birth than after- wards, being afterwards diminished both in connection with increased growth of the whole lower forehead, and with projection forward of the outer table of the frontal when the frontal sinus makes its appearance. At birth each roof-bone extends conically from its eminence ; and after- wards it becomes more uniformly rounded. In old age there is a tendency to obliteration of sutures, and to absorption of diploe, especially in the parietals, and, next to them, the squamous parts of the temporals, and in the frontal and occipital; and also, by means of absorption, to enlargement of air-sinuses. The form also tends to change, in a manner to be accounted for by gravitation, and most marked when the cranial capacity is large without the bones being massive. Thus the base becomes transversely flat or slightly concave, the occipital tuberosity descends, the roof and forehead become lower, and the sides of the skull project out over the ears. In the female special characters are observed less marked than those distinguishing the childish from the adult form^ yet such as are attributable to non-participation in the later stages of male development. Thus the face is lighter, the occipital and frontal regions less developed in propor- tion to the parietal. Generally, the skull is lower; and the average proportion of breadth to length is less. Decidedly the most constant character is, as I pointed out, that the clivus forms larger angles than in the male with the planes of the foramen magnum and the anterior fossa of the base; the base having thus a level as distinguished from a steep form. In different races the peculiarities of form are less constantly adhered to than those dependent on age and sex; but groups of 23eculiarities are to be found in different nationalities, and in individual skulls a certain number of these peculiarities are always present. Retzius divided races, according to the extent to which the longitudinal diameter of the skull surpassed the breadth, into dolichocephali and bmchycephali. The Kaffir skull presents an instance of extreme dolichocephalic shape, and the Tartar races are examples of the brachycephalic, while in old British barrows, and even among stocks surviving in the British Isles, both Q