THE KNEE-JOINT. 191 The lujamentum patellae is the tendon of insertion of the quadriceps extensor femoris; the patella being a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon. It partakes, however, of the toughness of ligament, and is not liable to snap. It arises from the borders and deep surface of the lower part of the patella, and is inserted into the rough part of the tubercle of the tibia. Between it and the upper part of the tubercle there is an important bursa, liable to inflammation, and more likely to give trouble in diagnosis than is inflammation of the superficial bursa over the patella. The retinacula or lateral ligaments of the patella are membranous bands, variously described, One, internal, passes from the patella to the inner tuberosity of the tibia, while another, external, closely connected with the strong band of the fascia lata pulled on by the tensor fasciae femoris, turns downwards to the outer tuberosity of the femur. The anterior or external crucial ligament is attached above to the inner side of the external condyle of the femur near the back, and inferiorly to the tibia in front of the spine. The posterior or internal crucial ligament is attached above to the outer side of the inner condyle of the femur, at the fore part of the intercondylar fossa, and is inserted inferiorly into the popliteal notch. The semilunar fihro-plates {cartilages or Jibro-cartilages of authors) are crescentic felted structures, each with an upper and a lower free surface, a free edge turned towards the centre of the joint, and a thick peripheral border adherent to the fibrous cap- sule. They assume the appearance of ligamentous bands at their ex- tremities. They cover the bevelled parts of the tibial surfaces. The internal fihro-plate is the more fixed in position, and has its extremities widely separate, the posterior being attached to the rough surface behind the tibial spine, in front of the internal crucial ligament, and the anterior quite in front of the external crucial ligament. The external fibro-plate is nearly circular, its extremities being attached near one to Fig. 185.—Right Knee from the front> with the capsule removed and the tibia sawn from before backwards between the crucial ligaments. a, Tendon of popliteus; h, c, external and internal lateral ligaments; d, e, external and internal semilunar discs; /, g, ex- ternal and internal crucial ligaments ; h, ligamentum patellae reflected with portion of patella attached. Fig. 1S6.—Head of Left Tibia supporting a and b, the outer and inner semilunar discs ; c, external crucial ligament; d, internal or posterior crucial ligament; e, accessory band from the external disc to join the posterior crucial ligament; /, transverse ligament.