THE INTESTINE. 723 Fig. 558.—Intermuscular Lymphatics and My- enteric Plexus of Guinea Pig, L, Lymphatics; G, ganglia ; N, nerve-cords. (Auerbacb.) The nerves of the small intestine are supplied by the superior mesenteric plexus of the sympathetic, and form in the walls two meshed and gangliated plexuses. One of these, Auerhach's plexus, is situated between the longi- tudinal and circular layers of the muscular coat; the other, Meissner's plexus, is in the submucous coat. From the latter, fine branches have been traced forming a netted plexus both in the substance of the mucous membrane and in the villi. . The large intestine is about five or six feet long; it may be said in general terms to be about twice the diameter of the small intestine, and, like it, is largest at the commence- ment, and gradually narrows as far as the rectal dilatation. It begins in a short and wide blind pouch, the caecum; the caecum, at the place where the ileum opens into it laterally, is con- tinued into the colon ; the colon constitutes the greater part of the large intestine, and is divided into ascending, trans- verse and descending colon and the sigmoid flexure; and the sigmoid flexure falls into the rectum. In its whole extent, with the exception of the rectum, the large intestine has a sacculated appearance, contrasting with the even cylindrical form of the small intestine. This sacculation in- volves the mucous, submucous, muscular and serous coats, but is maintained by the arrange- ment of the fibres of the muscular coat. The longi- tudinal muscular fibres are arranged principally in three strong bands or taeniae, dis- tinguished as mesenteric, pos- terior and lateral, and only a few are scattered between the bands. The circular fibres also are more numerous between the saccules than over them. An additional peculiarity Fig. 559.—Section of Small Intestine ok Guinea Pig. A, Longitudinal mnscnlar layer; B, circular layer; C, sub- mucous layer; i>, Liebcrkfihn's follicles; JF, villi; «, Auer- bach's plexus; b, deep myenteric plexus cut across j Meii^siiers plexus; e, periglandular plexus; plexus. (Cajal.) intravillous