642 OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. i I Development. The first appearance of the olfactory organ is an epiblastic i depression, which is afterwards inclosed by the development of the face, and complicated by the ethmoidal turbinations. Jacobson's organ, a structure developed in most mammals, and traced in other vertebrates, exists in vestigial form in the human subject, but will be best understood by referring first to the ruminant form which j Jacobson described. If a probe be passed through the patent incisor I foramen in the palate of a sheep or goat, and a vertical section be made ! on the same side, the probe will not be visible in the nasal cavity, because it will have entered a compressed pouch whose mouth is close to the incisor foramen, and which extends backwards within a cartilag- j inous sheath derived from the septal cartilage, and concealed by the i g f Fig. 473.—Jacobson's Organ of right side of nose of goat, a, Right side of palate; 6, septal cartilag-e ; c, central plate of ethmoid; d, deep side of mucous membrane of mesial wall of right nasal fossa ; f, cartilaginous capsule containing the mucous membrane of Jacobson's organ ; ./, mouth of capsule in the incisor foramen ; g, olfactory branch to Jacobson's organ; h, the branch from Meckel's ganglion. mucous membrane of the septum. Passing forwards to it are two long and distinct nerves, one from the olfactory and the other from Meckel's ganglion; and the mucous membrane has been found to present olfactory cells continuous with nerve-fibres, like those of the nasal cavity (v. Brunn). This organ first found in the human subject in the foetus (Dursy), was discovered by Kolliker to be generally present in the adult as a minute pouch, about an eighth of an inch long, lined with ciliated epithelium. The cartilage is also faintly represented. THE EYE. The essential part of the eye is the eyeball, containing within it the nerve-terminations sensitive to light, the refractive apparatus by which the landscape is repeated on the sensitive surface, and arrangements for regulat- ing focus ; while it is bounded in greater part by a fibrous capsule, the sclerotic, and completed in front by a transparent structure, the cornea.