543 THE OPHTHALMIC NERVE. angle of the ganglion. Crossing the optic nerve the nasal detaches the long ciliary nerves, two in number, which run forward by the inner side of the optic nerve, and pierce the back of the sclerotic coat of the eyeball along with the short ciliary nerves from the ganglion. Before leaving the orbit it gives off the infra trochlea r branch, a slender twig which, passing forwards, emerges below the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, sends upwards a connecting filament to the supratrochlear nerve, and terminates in branches which ramify in the skin and conjunctiva at the inner canthus. The inner terminal branch of the nasal nerve ramifies on the anterior and upper part of the septum of the nose. The outer ■terminal branch descends on the deep surface of the nasal bone, furnishing filaments which ramif}^ in front of the upper and middle turbinate processes; it then emerges between the lower edge of the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage, and descends on the deep surface of the compressor naris to the point of the nose, supplying the integument of the bridge. The lenticular or ciliary ganglion (Fig. 404) is usually described along with the fifth nerve, although it is probable from its development that it is to be regarded as more closely related to the oculo-motor trunk. It is a small four-sided body of a reddish colour, and measures from before backwards about a twelfth of an inch; it is to be found in the posterior part of the orbit, and lies on the outer side of the optic nerve. It receives posteriorly three roots: the long root, sensory, comes from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and joins the upper and posterior angle of the ganglion; the short root, motor, from the lower division of the third, joins the lower and posterior angle; the middle root, from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, very slender, either reaches the ganglion between the other two or is incorporated for a longer or shorter distance with one or other. From the anterior extremity of the ganglion the short ciliary nerves are given off'; they are at first six or eight in number, but dividing they form from fifteen to twenty filaments which, encircling the optic nerve, and forming two groups, an upper and a lower, reach the back of the eyeball. The long ciliary nerves from the nasal nerve form connections with and accompany the branches of the ganglion. The ciliary nerves pierce the sclerotic in a ring round the entrance of the optic nerve. They distribute sensory filaments to the eyeball from the fifth nerve, motor fibres to the ciliary muscle and sphincter of the pupil from the third nerve, and, from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, fibres which, on stimulation, produce dilatation of the pupil. The Second Division or Superior Maxillary Nerve. The superior maxillary nerve (Fig. 406), directed forwards and a little outwards, emerges from the cranium by the foramen rotundum, crosses the upper part of the spheno-maxillar}^ fossa, passes along the infraorbital groove and canal, and appears on the face at the infraorbital foramen, on emerging from which it breaks up, on the deep surface of the levator labii superioris