THE VEETEBRAL COLUMN. 117 forwards than any other part of the cokimn, and is such that the cokmin at this part may sometimes be felt through the abdominal wall in a lean patient. The lumbar convexity is succeeded by the sacral concavity extending far backwards. In addition to these curves, there is also a slight deviation to the right in the upper part of the chest, probably connected with the fact that the aorta lies at that part on the left side of the column. More important is tke circumstance that when the pelvis is in an oblique position by only one knee being straightened, which is the natural mode of standing, the column is thrown into temporary lateral curves, which, in combination with increase of the mesial curves, produces a spirality well adapted to give greater spring and to increase the stability of balance. The exaggeration of such natural positions gives rise to the lateral curvature known as a pathological condition. The great development of mesial curvature is specially characteristic of man, and connected with the maintenance of the erect posture by balance. At birth the column is very flexible, and the cervical convexity is favoured by the head of the infant being no longer bent upon the chest, but thrown backwards. The lumbar convexity makes its appearance somewhat later. To stretch the lower limbs of an infant there is required not only the extension of the hip joint, but still more the bending back- wards of the lumbar part of the column, so as for the first time to pro- duce the convexity, which soon becomes permanent. Besides the curves, there are other peculiarities of the human vertebral column connected with the assumption of the erect posture. The lumbar vertebrae are massive to support the accumulated weight above them, while the cervical vertebrae are light as compared with those of many animals, the head being habitually supported by balance, and not sus- pended at the extremity of a column projecting forwards as in quadrupeds. Also the pillar of support formed by the bodies of the vertebrae projects well forwards into the thoracic and abdominal cavities so as to have the weight distributed round it; and, to effect this, the transverse processes at their origins are thrown backwards by the intervention of pedicles between them and the bodies, and the thoracic transverse processes have a well-marked backward inclination. The imbricated thoracic spines are also characteristically human. In many mammals the dorsal projection of these processes is such as to form prominent withers affording room for muscles at their sides; while in man the mass of muscles straightening the back is accumulated most largely in the loins. THE RIBS. There are twelve pairs of ribs developed as separate bones, and they articulate with the twelve thoracic vertebrae. They are prolonged forwards by costal cartilages, of which the first seven pairs articulate anteriorly with the sternum, while the remaining five are pointed, three