520 THE NERVES. nections with branches of the radial nerve and assist in the supply of the outer side of the ring and the inner side of the middle fingers. Branches in the hand. The superficial division furnishes a twig to the palmaris brevis and some small cutaneous offsets, and then divides into two branches, the inner of which becomes the palmar digital nerve for the inner side of the little finger, while the outer forms a connection with the median nerve and divides into branches for the contiguous sides of the little and ring fingers. The deep division, muscular in its distribution, passes back- wards among the muscles of the little finger and crosses outwards in the palm in company with the deep palmar arch; it supplies the muscles of the little finger, the two inner lumbricales, all the interossei, the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor pollicis brevis. The median nerve (Figs. 382, 386), continued from the outer and inner cords of the plexus, is formed in the third part of the axilla, the inner head crossing in front of the artery to join the outer head. In the arm the nerve, descending with the artery, is placed at first by the outer side of the vessel, but afterwards passes in front of it, and finally gains its inner side. In the forearm it passes between the heads of the pronator teres, and descends on the deep surface of the flexor digitorum sublimis. At the wrist it lies at the outer edge of the tendons of the superficial flexor. In entering the hand, it passes in front of the tendons and behind the anterior annular ligament, at the lower border of which it splits into an external and internal division. No branches are given off" in the arm, but at the level of the elbow some articidar filaments are detached. Branches in the forearm. Separate muscidar branches are supplied to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor disfitorum sublimis. The anterior interosseous nerve descends with the anterior interosseous artery, supplies the inner half of the flexor pro- fundus, the flexor pollicis longus, and the pronator quadratus, and furnishes an articular filament to the wrist. A ^mdiW palmar cutaneous. branch arises a little above the wrist, and passes in front of the annular ligament to supply the outer portion of the palm. Branches in the hand. The outer terminal division first detaches a muscular branch which supplies those short muscles of the thumb, which are placed externally to the tendon of the flexor pollicis longus, viz. the abductor, the opponens, and the outer head of the flexor pollicis brevis; it then divides into two branches, the outer of which furnishes the palmar digital nerves for both sides of the thumb, while the inner, after furnishing a muscular twig to the outer lumbriccdis, becomes the palmar digital nerve for the outer side of the index finger. The inner terminal division divides into two branches; the outer gives a muscular twig to the second himbriccdis and divides into pcdmar digital branches for the contiguous sides of the index and middle fingers; the inner branch forms a connection with the ulnar nerve and splits to form the digital branches for the contiguous sides of the middle and ring fingers.