GLANDS. 57 GLANDS. Secretion, generally speaking, consists in the extraction from the blood or the elaboration of special substances by epithelial corpuscles, and the pouring of them out on a free surface. No doubt the moisture found in serous and syno\dal sacs is not obviously influenced in quantity or equality by the endothelium; yet its varieties of character suggest that it is more than a transudation from the bloodvessels and textures around. As to the structures called ductless glands, while some of them have arresting and elaborating powers, they differ from secreting glands in that they do not pour their products out on a free surface. Absorption by epithelial corpuscles, such as is carried on by the columnar epithelium of the intestine, is similar to secretion, in respect that substance is attracted into the nucleated corpuscles and passed on by them; but it differs in the direction of the current, the current in absorption being directed from the surface inwards, and, in secretion, from the bloodvessels to the surface. A surface which secretes is a secreting surface^ but the free surface in connection with secretion is very generally extended by deep recesses; and these recesses, with the secreting epithelium within them, and the vessels, nerves and supporting texture about them, constitute secreting glands. Glands are called simple or compound according as they consist of one or more recesses, and are called tubular or sacculated according to the shapes of the secreting parts. Simple straight tubules are exemplified in the tubular follicles of the intestine; the sweat-glands are mostly simple convoluted tubules, and compound tubular glands are exemplified by the testicle and kidney. The nearest approach to simple saccules is found in some of the sebaceous glands of the skin, but even these always show a certain tendency to lobation. Compound sacculated glands have the saccules forming little dilatations containing polygonal secreting corpuscles, which may be of such considerable size as nearly to fill them. These ultimate dilatations are termed acini, and the glands made up of them are said to be acinated, and from their arborescent arrangement are also called racemose. The salivary and buccal glands and the pancreas are racemose glands. Only in short simple glands or follicles is the whole recess given to the preparation of the special secretion. The tubular passages which in other glands lead to the secreting parts are called the ducts, and in acinated glands they branch and become smaller, till they end in the ultimate secreting acini. The wall of the gland or membrane on which the secreting corpuscles lie always presents a definite line on section, and is termed membrana jjropria. It may be strengthened in acinated glands by a layer of flattened corpuscles united edge to edge so as to form a more or less complete