THE BRAIN. 634 the axis-cylinders of the motor nerves have been seen in embryonic animals pushing their way through the tissues with a little groivth-cone at their extremity, and the sensory nerves have been seen growing outwards and inwards from their spinal ganglia. Within the cord the most ventral neuroblasts send their growth-cone into the anterior root of the same side, the most dorsally situate push theirs across the middle line at the anterior commissure, while others intervening insinuate theirs into the periphery of the cord, the region of the future white columns. By the sixth week, in the human subject, the central canal projects dorsally con- siderably beyond the posterior roots, and laterally opposite them; the posterior columns are distinctly seen on each side, and the anterior columns project ventrally on each side of the middle line, separated by the first indication of the anterior longitudinal fissure. Till the foetus is four inches long from crown to nates, the cord and vertebral column grow equally, the nerves being given off" opposite the intervertebral foramina by which they emerge, and the length of the canal being occupied. After that period the cord lengthens more slowly than the column, and by the time of birth it terminates opposite the third lumbar vertebra. Obviously this entails more rapid and greater growth of the lower nerve-roots to form the cauda equina; but it is interesting to note that other nerve-roots have been found equal to eff'ecting a similar elongation without the aid of heredity, when it has been forced on them by displacement of the brain in hernia cerebri.^ The development of the brain has been already to some extent referred to (pp. 90 and 97). It originates in the part of the medullary groove first laid down, and soon takes the form of a series of three primary cerebral vesicles, the third or hindermost of which elongates and tapers to the cord, while the second is at first of oval form, and the first or foremost expands in a trilobate fashion. The lateral lobes of this trilobate expansion each become quickly marked off in the shape of a globular part and a pedicle, the primary optic vesicle and the optic nerve; and in the chick in the first half of the second day of hatching, the grooves bounding the inner margins of the pedicles meet in the middle line exactly in the constriction between the first and second cerebral vesicles, which is therefore the precise site of the anterior edge of the optic commissure, a fact too little taken into account in judging of the morphological relation of the eyeball to the second cerebral vesicle (Fig. 96 a). Immediately afterwards the first cerebral vesicle of the chick becomes bifid at its extremity, this bifidity being the earliest indication of hemisphere-vesicles (Fig. 96 b). While these changes have been taking place, the brain has become more and more bent on itself by the greater growth on the dorsal than on the ventral side, so that the direction of the first cerebral vesicle is reversed and has its distal end pointing downwards. The third primary cerebral vesicle^ the after-brain, early shows a division ^ Cleland, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, April, 1883. \