MUSCLES OF LOWEE LIMB. 315 within the capsule of the joint and under cover of the external lateral ligament, from the anterior extremity and upper margin of the popliteal groove, b}^ a narrow tendon which, descending with an inward direction, grooves the external semilunar cartilage and pierces the posterior ligament. The muscular fibres, reinforced by a few from the posterior part of the capsule, spread out and are inserted into the whole of the triangular area of the shaft of the tibia above the popliteal line. The deep group. The muscles of the deep group, with the exception of the popliteus, which has been already described, are the tibialis posticus, the flexor hallucis longus, and the flexor digitorum pedis longus. They are continued by tendons which pass round the internal malleolus, under cover of the internal annular ligament, into the sole. At the origin the tibialis posticus lies between the other two, springing from the tibia and fibula and the interosseous membrane; the flexor hallucis longus on the outer side springs from the fibula, and the flexor digitorum longus on the inner side takes origin chiefly from the tibia, A horizon- tally stretched intermuscular septum separates the muscles of this group from the soleus and detaches partitions which separate the tibialis posticus from its neighbouring muscles. A vertical septum at the outer side intervenes between the flexor hallucis longus and the peroneus longus and brevis. The posterior tibial vessels lie upon the surface of the tibialis posticus, and the accompanying posterior tibial nerve supplies the muscles. A little distance above the ankle a change takes place in the relative position of the muscles. The tendon of the tibialis posticus passes for- wards and inwards in front of the flexor digitorum longus. In passing- round the internal malleolus, under cover of the internal annular liga- ment, the tendons are confined by septa in osteo-fibrous canals which are lined by synovial membrane; the tendon of the tibialis posticus is anterior in position, that of the flexor digitorum longus immediately behind it, while that of the flexor hallucis longus is the most posterior; the vessels and nerve lie between the two last-mentioned tendons, but in a plane slightly superficial to them. In the sole the tendons are covered by the superficial layer of muscles. That of the tibialis posticus, close to the bones, passes forwards on the inner side to the scaphoid. The tendon of the flexor hallucis longus is directed forwards to the great toe, on its way crossing above the tendon of the long flexor of the toes and detaching a slip to it. The tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, passing forwards and outwards, to be inserted into the four outer toes, receives from behind, about the middle of the foot, the insertion of the flexor accessorius, and divides immediately thereafter into four portions, from which, close to the point of division, the lumbricales muscles spring. The tibialis posticus (tihialis posterior) springs from the upper three- fourths of the shaft of the fibula, occupying at its origin the whole of