THE EYEBALL. 651 trunk springs, which at once proceeds to pierce the sclerotic backwards. The connective tissue binding the arteries and veins together, the stroma proper of the choroid, is made brown by the presence of numerous flat pigmented corpuscles branched like those of the membrana fusca, only to a greater degree. But this stroma is not prolonged on the central or con- cave surface of the arterial layer. In contact with that surface there is extended the monbrcoie of Ilui/sch or niemhrana chorio-capillaris, a continuous close network of capillaries, with fine meshes, especially at the back of the eyeball, and continued forwards to the ora serrata of the retina, Fig. 485.—Schema of Vessels of the Tunica Vasculosa. On the right side the ciliary muscle is supposed to be removed to bring the ciliary processes into view, o, Optic nerve ; Aa and Va, anterior ciliary artery and vein ; Vv, vena vorticosa ; Al, long ciliary artery ; Cim, circulus iridis major; Ah, Ah, short ciliary arteries. (Leber.) about an eighth of an inch from the margin of the cornea. It com- municates with the arteries and veins by numbers of minute arterioles and venous radicles, not, however, so numerous as in animals provided with a tapetum,! such as the ox. In them the capillaries are arranged in a series of stellules, exhibiting in the centre the extremities of short vertical vessels, which traverse the tapetum and give passage to and from the capillaries. The membrane of Ruysch has on its deep or retinal surface a very thin structureless elastic lamina, the membrane of Bruch, ^ The tapetum is a structure altogether absent in man, but present in the majority of vertebrates, and most abundant in nocturnal animals and those which require to see below the surface of water. It intervenes between the arterial layer and the membrane of Ruysch, and consists of connective tissue in hoofed animals, of granular matter in carnivora, and of vesicles filled with rods in fishes. In the horse and the ox it is developed in the upper part of the back of the eye so as to catch the images of objects on the ground.