702 THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. two or three transverse rugae in its fore part, representative of those so much more obvious in many mammals; also, it has a slight raphe in the middle line, and in front of the raphe, in a portion corresponding with the incisor foramen, there is a slight elevation, with sometimes a depression behind it, a vestige of the mode of development, and representing the orifices which in a number of animals lead up to the floor of the nose opposite the organ of Jacobson. The palate has a large number of acinated glands similar in appearance ''''^^^^i^^^K those of the lips and cheeks. They are crowded in the soft palate, and are continued for- wards into the middle of the hard palate in two patches, one on each side. They have a watery secretion. In the floor of the mouth and on the under surface of the tongue the mucous membrane is more movable than on the cheeks. It presents in the middle line a prominent bridle, fraenum linguae, toward whose lower end there is a thickening in which are placed, side by side, the openings of the ducts of the submaxillary glands (Wharton's ducts). On each side, in the hollow between jaw and tongue, there can always be re- cognised during life a slight elevation produced by the sublingual glands, sometimes presenting a fringe-like line in which lie openings of sub- lingual ducts (ducts of Walther). There also extends forwards under the tongue, on each side of the fraenum, a little out from it, a scalloped fold, plica fimbriata, directed outwards, which has a certain importance as con- stituting with its fellow the representative of the imder tongue found in various animals, especially lemurs and marsupials (Gegenbaur). Fig. 533.—Acini of Labial Gland treated with sulphuric acid to show the elastic covering. Superior liiigualis Stylo-glossus« Inferior lingualis.- Hyo-glossus \j Genio-glossus Fig. 534.—Diagram of Transverse Section of Tongue. The transverse and vertical fibres are seen in addition to the named muscles. The tongue is a muscular structure with a mesial fibrous septum extending forwards from the hyoid bone, and with a specialized form n (