^2 GENERAL ANATOMY. Capillaries are often described as consisting of endothelium and having no other wall proper to them, but this description is misleading, for there is a homogeneous membrane quite distinct from the endothelium. The endothelium, the lines of con- tact of whose scales can be brought into view by the action of silver nitrate, and can also be seen by successful carmine staining (Fig. 5), has much less prominent nuclei than those in the arterioles; but capillaries everywhere exhibit, regularly disposed on them, other oval nuclei little flattened. These were known before the endothelium had been detected, and belong to corpuscles embedded in a homogeneous wall. This may be conveniently termed, as it sometimes is, the tunica adventitial being continuous with the tunica adventitia of the arteries. The endothelial scales are pointed at the extremities, most of them diamond-shaped; but those placed at a bifurcation may have three points, one projecting toward each channel. The veins have a total sectional area, for the return of the blood, greater for each part than that of the arteries. Arteries are very gener- ally accompanied by veins, but there are many subcutaneous veins in the neck and limbs without corresponding arteries. In the limbs specially there is a notable system of subcutaneous veins, which allows the blood to return when the deep veins are pressed on by muscles in contraction. The return is facilitated by the frequent anastomoses of veins even of considerable size, and in the extremities by the arrangement that in the upper limb below the level of the axilla, and in the lower limb below the knee, the main arteries are each accompanied by two anastomosing veins termed venae comites. There is one exception to the rule that the veins beginning in the capillaries are continued into larger and larger trunks, namely, the portal vein, which, receiving blood from the intestines, spleen and stomach, breaks up in the liver into branches ending in a second set of capillaries, through which the blood passes to the hepatic veins. The walls of veins are much thinner and greatly more distensible than those of arteries, the difference in thickness depending on the circular muscular fibres being much less developed, or even, in some veins, absent The tunica intima presents the three elements found in the arteries, namely, endothelium, delicate connective tissue and elastic membrane; but the latter is very thin and adherent to subjacent connective tissue. The tunica adventitia in its deeper part, in a number of veins, presents a. well-marked development of longitudinal muscular fibres, and longi-