337 MUSCLES A^D FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. space extends for a short distance upon the orbital or free surface of each of the tendons, but does not pass round to the ocular surface or surface of pressure, the capsule being closely adherent to the margins of the tendons. Actions of the muscles of the orbit. The eyeball does not appreciably change its form nor its position as a whole under the actions of the muscles; the motions imparted to it are those of rotation round a point placed immediately behind the centre of its antero-posterior axis. The maintenance of position probably depends partly on the antagonistic actions of the straight and oblique muscles, and partly on the support afforded by the orbital fascia, and the influence which it exercises in modifjnng the actions of the muscles. The four straight muscles are intimately connected with the fascia, more especially with the bands which pass to be attached to the orbital margins, and it is probable that these bands, by their gradual extension during muscular action, act as agents, moderating to a certain extent the direction in which the force is applied to the globe, and finally, by their complete tension, play the part of tendons of arrest. When the eyeball is in the position from which its movements are calculated, the pupil being directed forwards, its antero-posterior axis is parallel to the antero-posterior axis of the body. The axis of the orbit, however, is directed outwards as well as forwards; this fact requires to be borne in mind in the study of the actions of the individual muscles. There are three primary axes round which a globular body may rotate, but the movements of the eye are limited, and they are most conveniently described in terms which refer to the manner in which they affect the position of the cornea. Eotation of the eyeball round its vertical axis turns the cornea outwards or inwards according to the direction in which it takes place ; the move- ments are spoken of as abduction and adduction of the cornea. In a similar manner rotation round the transverse axis results in elevation or depression of the cornea. Eotation round the antero-posterior axis would produce a rotation of the cornea. A simple movement of rotation of the cornea does not occur in the case of the eye, but a very slight inclination of the vertical meridian of the globe takes place in the oblique movements of the cornea, in which vertical and transverse displacement are combined. Movements of elevation or depression of the cornea take place in the two eyes simultaneously; when the gaze is fixed on a near object both eyes are turned inwards ; when the gaze is directed laterally there is abduction in one case and adduction in the other. Movements in which the cornea is turned outwards or inwards are eff"ected by the external and internal recti muscles. Upward movement of the cornea is caused principally by the superior rectus, but as the muscle passes somewhat outwards to its insertion, in the line of the orbital axis, a certain amount of oblique rotation is communicated to the ball by its contraction. The inferior oblique muscle, acting in concert with the superior rectus, corrects Y