THE SKELETON. 164 a concave boundary to the false pelvis, and bending in the opposite direction behind. The crest is thick in the fore and back parts of its course, and thinner between. The anterior thick part presents two lips separated by a ridge, the outer lip giving attachment to the fibres of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen, and the inner to the internal oblique and the transversalis : the middle thin part gives attachment externally to the hinder portions of the oblique muscles and to fibres of the latissimus dorsi, and internally to the quadratus lumborum, while the posterior apon- eurosis of the transversalis muscle lies between; and the thick back part gives attachment to the lumbar fascia and deep muscles of the back, showing also on the inner side of the fore part of the surface devoted to them the mark of attachment of the ilio-lumbar ligament. The anterior pro- jecting extremity of the crest is called the anterior superior spine, and affords attachment in front to the sartorius muscle, outside to the tensor fasciae femoris, and internally to Poupart's ligament. Separated from it by a short concave edge, the anterior inferior spine projects forwards, and gives origin to the anterior head of the rectus femoris muscle and to the ilio-femoral ligament; and below this the border of the ilium forms along with the pubic bone a convexity in front of the acetabulum, the ilio- pectineal eminence. The posterior extremity of the crest is called the posterior superior spine, and is separated by a short and sharp concave margin from the p)Osterior inferior spine, which supports internally the posterior extremity of the articular surface for the sacrum. Beneath this, the border is hollowed out, forming the greater part of the great sciatic notch. The dorsum ilii, or outer surface, presents areae for the attachment of the gluteal muscles : namely, posteriorly, for the gluteus maximus, a rough surface, extending down to the great sciatic notch; in front of this, for the gluteus medius, a space broad behind and narrow in fronts bounded below by a linear mark, the superior curved line, extending from outside and behind the anterior superior spine back to the great sciatic notch; and below this line a space for the gluteus minimus, broader in front than behind, and extending down to the inferior curved line, which curves back to the great sciatic notch from the anterior inferior spine. The interval between the inferior curved line and the acetabulum is covered by the gluteus minimus, and over the upper edge of the acetabulum there is a considerable roughness from which the reflected head of the rectus femoris muscle arises. The internal surface of the ilium presents an expanded, smooth and slightly concave surface, the iliac fossa, giving origin to the iliacus muscle and bounding the false pelvis. Below this it also enters into the con- struction of the true pelvis, by a part separated from the iliac fossa by a smooth border which is continued forwards on the os pubis to its spine^ and is named in its entirety the ilio-pectineal line. Behind the iliac fossa a rougher area extends backwards, on which may be distinguished, in-