300 THE MUSCLES. The vastus externus, a thick muscular sheet occupying the outer region of the thigh, and presenting an anterior border free from the crureus in its whole extent, springs partly by an aponeurosis which extends for some distance on the surface of the muscle and partly by fleshy fibres from the upper part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, the line limiting the great trochanter in front and to the outside, the outer margin of the gluteal ridge, and the upper portion of the linea aspera; fibres also spring from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres pass downwards and inw^ards to the tendon, which forms on the deep surface of the muscle in its lower part and joins the outer part of the common insertion. The muscle is superficial in the greater part of its extent, being only slightly overlapped by the rectus and tensor vaginae femoris. It lies upon the crureus. The vastus internus arises partly by aponeurotic and partly by fleshy fibres from the lower extremity of the anterior intertrochanteric line, from the line leading thence to the linea aspera, and from the inner lip of the linea aspera. The origin is closely connected behind with the insertions of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The fibres pass outwards and downwards, and the muscle lies close upon the bone. Its most anterior fibres pass into the superficial aponeurosis of the crureus, and the muscle therefore contrasts with the vastus externus in having no free border in front. If the muscular mass be divided from below upwards, however, it will be found that there is no continuity between the crureus and vastus internus at their origins, and that there is a continuous tract along the whole inner surface of the femur from which no muscular fibres spring. The remainder of the fibres pass to a tendon which forms on the deep surface of the muscle, and joins the inner part of the common insertion. The muscular fibres of the vastus internus are continued further downwards towards the patella than are those of the vastus externus. The muscle is overlapped by the rectus and crossed by the sartorius, but in the space between these two it is superficial. The femoral vessels are for some distance in contact with its surface. The crureus springs from the outer portion of the shaft of the femur and extends in its origin from the anterior intertrochanteric line to within a few inches of the lower end of the bone ; some of the lower fibres spring from the external supracondylar line and external intermuscular septum. It is largely overlapped by the vastus externus, with the origin of which it is at its posterior margin continuous. Its aponeurosis of insertion joins the deep part of the common tendon, and is continued upwards over the anterior surface of the muscle, presenting to the posterior surface of the rectus, which is similarly covered, an aponeurotic expansion which allows gliding. A few of the lower fibres of the muscle receive the name of subcrureus. They are attached to the wall of the synovial bursa which lies behind the common tendon of insertion.