THE KNEE-JOINT. 193 against by the structure of the joint. In the course of the movement from flexion towards extension, the femoral condyles revolve on the tibia in such a way as to bring successively into contact with the tibia portions of their surfaces nearer the front; and until within a short distance of complete extension their motion is equal, thus throwing the shaft directly forwards. But after the foremost part of the outer condyle has come into contact with the semilunar fibro-plate, the revolving of the inner condyle is continued on its oblique fore part, and turns the front of the shaft inwards. The outer condyle being thus made to rotate on the front of the outer condylar portion of the tibial spine, pushes the part of the external fibro-plate near its anterior attachment over the anterior and inner border of the tibial surface, and is locked firmly against it (Bruce Young). Were it not for the locking of the bones one against the other, the whole tendency to over-extension would have to be resisted by the ligaments and by the flexor muscles; and even with the advantage thus gained, the pressure of the weight of the body is so great that when the muscles of the calf are paralyzed, convexity of the back of the knee sets in. In extension, all the tibio-femoral ligaments are tight, with the exception of the internal crucial, which is tightened in flexion and becomes the pivot round which the leg can be rotated for about 45 degrees. After the knee has been flexed as much as it can be by muscular action, it is always possible to flex it further by lifting the leg with the hand; and it is into this position of extreme flexion that the knee is brought in sinking down on the hams and the balls of the toes. In assuming this position the femur is rotated inwards by the backmost part of the outer condyle coming into play (Goodsir); and the inner condyle, by a facet hitherto unnoticed, presses against the surface of the tibia, twisting up behind the spine. The patella, in extension, is thrown inwards by the prominence of the outer margin of the patellar surface of the femur, and is guarded from dislocation inwards by its outer retinaculum, and by fibres descending to it from the fascia lata of the outside of the thigh. In flexion it is turned outwards by the projection forwards of the inner condyle of the femur, and is protected from outward dislocation by the tightening of its inner retinaculum over that condyle. The prominence of the knee in flexion exhibits a flat surface with three angles, two to the outside formed by patella and outer edge of the patellar surface of the femur, and one to the inner side formed by the inner condyle. The diff"erent facets of the patella come into contact with the femur in diff"erent positions. When the knee is kept extended by the quadriceps extensor, the two lower facets of the patella are in contact with the uppermost part of the patellar surface of the femur. In semiflexion the two middle surfaces only are in contact, while both the upper and lower facets are separated from the femur; and thus it is that transverse fracture of the patella is of so common occurrence as the result of spasmodic N