194 THE SKELETON. contraction of the quadriceps extensor, when the muscle and the liga- mentum patellae pull its upper and lower free extremities back, and the femur presses it forward in the middle. In extreme muscular flexion the upper facets are in contact with the femur; and in complete flexion by sinking the weight of the body on the bent knee, the inner facet of the patella rests on the surface provided for it on the inner condyle. The Joints of the Leg and Foot. The superior tibio-fibular articulation is surrounded by a fibrous capsule in which anterior smd posterior ligaments may be distinguished passing upwards and inwards from the fibula. It occasionally communicates with the knee-joint. The interosseous membrane is a fibrous septum uniting the sharp outer edge of the shaft of the tibia with the prominent line on the inner surface of the fibula. Its fibres are sloped, downwards and outwards. It leaves a considerable opening above, which is traversed by the anterior-tibial vessels. The inferior tibio-fibular articulation is closely connected with the ankle-joint, and contains within it, prolonged upwards for more than half an inch from that joint, a synovial recess padded with adipose tissue, but without articular cartilage. The anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament is a broad band passing upwards and inwards from the front of the external malleolus to the front of the tibia. The posterior inferior tibiofibular ligament has a superficial part disposed similarly to the anterior ligament, and a deep part with more nearly horizontal fibres stretching inwards from the deep surface of the external malleolus, and lined inferiorly by the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint. The inferior interosseous ligament, extending downwards from the lower end of the inter- osseous membrane, consists of fibres both in front and behind the synovial recess, but more abundant behind it. The transverse ligammt of the ankle-joint is a tibio-fibular band separated from the deep part of the posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament, as seen from within the ankle-joint, by a fold of synovial membrane. It arises from the deep surface of the external malleolus, and its fibres spread out to be inserted along the posterior inferior edge of the tibia. Fig. 188.—Dorsifi.exed Left Ankle from behind, a, Inter- osseous membrane ; b, posterior liarament of lower tibio-fibular articulation ; c, transverse liga- ment ; D, E, posterior and middle bands of external lateral liga- ment of ankle-joint; f, g, h, astragalar, calcaneal, and scaph- oid portions of internal lateral ligament; i, posterior tubercle of astragalus, with posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligament ex- ternal to the dotted line, and in ternal astragalo-calcaneal fibres internal to it.