THE CEREBELLUM AND ANTERIOR VELUM. 605 the other with that of the posterior medullary velum. The groove is thus a ventricular epithelial surface, to be distinguished from the pia-matral surface round about, and so turned round by the redundant bulk of the cerebellum that its cerebellar edge lies lower than the ligulae. Internal structure. Deeply placed centres of grey matter are found in the cerebellum independent of the grey matter of the surface, and consist principally of a pair of corrugated purselike sheets, similar in appearance to the olivary bodies of the medulla oblongata. They are called corpora dentata, and are situated one on each side, not far from the ventricular aspect. Between them, above the roof of the fourth ventricle. Stilling describes some nodular patches of grey matter in pairs, namely, the nucleus fastigii, nucleus emboliforrnis, and nucleus globosus. There seems room for some doubt of their independence of the laminae. Fig. 437.—Frontal Section of Body and Left Lobe OF Cerebellum. The left corpus dentatum is seen in the centre of the lobe. A section of the uvula over- hangs the medulla oblongata, and between the two the cruciate form of the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle is displayed. Fig. 438.--Sections of Cerebellum. A, Trans- verse section of lamina or folium, showing the- pinnate arrangement of leaflets, f ; B, leaflet more highly magnified: a, pia mater; 6, molecular layer with thinly scattered granules; c, granular layer d, central white matter ; e, corpuscles of Purkinje. The superficial or cortical grey matter clothing the laminae has a complicated structure peculiar to it. It is divided abruptly into two strata, the super- ficial of which, somewhat the thicker of the two, is called the molecular layer, while the deeper is called the granular and is of a slightly redder grey. The granular layer gets its name from presenting, even under a low power, granules scattered thickly through all its substance. These granules have now been demonstrated by Golgi's method to be minute nerve-corpuscles averaging -oVoth inch in diameter, each with three or four short branching protoplasmic processes and a very fine axis-cylinder-process which passes up through a variable depth of the molecular substance, there to divide into two branches taking their courses in opposite directions parallel