THE NERVES. 532 and, in company with the pudic artery, by the inner side of which it is placed, bends round the small sacro-sciatic ligament to reach the ischio- rectal fossa, at the posterior extremity of which it breaks up into three branches. The three branches, along with the artery, continue their course forwards for some distance on the outer wall of the fossa in a canal formed by the obturator fascia. The most posterior of the three, the inferior haemorrlioidal, separates itself from its neighbours in the hinder part of the fossa; it is directed downwards, forwards, and inwards, and breaks up into numerous twigs^ which, travelling through the fatty tissue, reach the external sphincter muscle and the integument around the anus. The second branch, the perineal nerve, pierces the wall of the canal a little further forwards, and breaks up into superficial and deep branches, respectively cutaneous and muscular in their distribution. The superficial branches, two in number, the external and internal superficial perineal nerves, run forwards, passing through or beneath the superficial transverse muscle. They break up, as they traverse Colles's fascia, into numerous long slender twigs, the branches of which form communications with those of the pudendal and inferior haemorrhoidal nerves; they supply the skin of the anterior part of the perineal space and the scrotum or labium. The deep branch of the perineal nerve, or deep perineal nerve, supplies the levator ani, transversus perinei, compressor urethrae, bulbo-cavernosus or sphincter vaginae, and the ischio-cavernosus, and furnishes a twig to the bulb. The third main branch, the dorsal nerve of the penis or clitoris, accom- panies the artery to its termination, lying above it in the anterior part of the fossa, by its outer side between the layers of the triangular ligament, and below and external to it in the terminal portion of its course. It supplies, in passing, a branch to the corpus cavernosum, and ramifies freely on the integument of the penis; in the female it is much smaller than in the male, and ramifies on the clitoris. THE GREAT SCIATIC NERVE. The great sciatic nerve (Fig. 396) escapes from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, below the lower border of the pyriformis muscle, and passes downwards, resting in succession upon the gemellus superior, ob- turator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus, to a little beyond the middle of the thigh, where it divides into the internal and external popliteal nerves. In the upper part of its course, on the deep surface of the gluteus maximus, it lies between the ischial tuberosity and the great trochanter, being placed a little nearer to the former than the latter prominence; further on it is covered posteriorly by the long head of the biceps muscle. The place of division is variable, and may be found at any spot in the upper two-thirds of the thigh ; and occasionally the internal and external popliteal nerves spring directly from