MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 379 inwards, the lowest however, having, in addition, an inclination downwards. It springs (a) from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the six lower rib& by fleshy slips which interdigitate with those of the diaphragm, (h) in the region between the last rib and the iliac crest, from the lumbar aponeurosis, (r) from the inner lip of the anterior half of the iliac crest, and (d) from the outer third of Poupart's ligament. All, except the lowest fibres, pass into a broad aponeurosis, which, joining the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, sweeps towards the linea alba, and assists in forming the sheath of the rectus. Along the greater part of its length the aponeurosis begins about an inch from the margin of the rectus, but above it is narrow, and there the muscular fibres extend inwards for a little distance behind the sheath. The lowest fibres, closely associated with those of the internal oblique, pass into the conjoined tendon. Between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles run some of the lower dorsal and upper lumbar nerves, the lumbar arteries, and a branch of the deep circumflex iliac artery. The conjoined tendon, which receives the lowest fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, begins close to the inner and upper margin of the deep abdominal ring, and in passing downwards to its insertion is crossed in front, obliquely from without inwards, by the cord or round ligament. It is blended below with the deep surface of Poupart's and Gimbernat's ligament, and along with the latter is attached to the first half-inch of the ilio-pectineal line; its outer margin reaches as far outwards as the middle of Poupart's ligament. Its- outer border circumscribes the inner d^-" and lower margins of the deep ring, and is chiefly composed of fibres derived from the transversalis muscle. The middle portion of the tendon is the weakest, while the inner portion, descending to the ilio-pectineal line, is the strongest and best marked. The fascia transversalis is closely united to the deep surface of the tendon, but may, in a well-developed subject, be separated from it by careful dissection. The outer margin of the tendon, which surrounds the lower and inner sides of the deep ring, has sometimes been described under the name of the "reflected tendon of Sir Astley CooDer." Occasionally muscular fibres fig. 296.—AKRAsnKMF.NT ok the fibres ok thk. ^ 111 QuADRATLS LcMBORUM (diagram.) (L. Tcstut.) belonging to the two muscles descend upon the whole breadth of the tendon to the insertion. (Mackay, 18i>9.) The quadratus lumborum arises from the ilio-hunbar ligament and tibics-