475 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. backwards along the floor of the orbit, and communicates freely with the pterygoid plexus, in which it sometimes ends. The tributaries of the ophthalmic veins correspond to the branches of the arter3\ The veins from the eyeball are the anterior and posterior ciliary veins. The anterior ciliary veins correspond to and accompany the anterior ciliary arteries. The ])osterior ciliary veins are four in number, and emerge from the sclerotic, a little behind the middle of the globe. The Veins of the Diploe. The veins of the diploe (Fig. 354) run in the cancellated bony tissue which lies between the outer and inner tables of the skull. They may be divided into frontal, parietal, and occipital sets. The frontal veins open partly into the supraorbital vein, and partly into the cavernous sinus. The 'parietal veins partly end in the deep temporal veins, and partly in the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The occipital veins terminate in the lateral sinus, and in the veins which ramify externally on the surface of the occipital region of the skull. The Venous Sinuses of the Cranium. The venous sinuses are channels within the substance of the dura mater, possessing a delicate lining membrane continuous with that of the veins. They communicate at certain spots with the external veins by small perforating vessels which are sometimes called "the emissary veins of Santorini." They receive the blood from the cerebrum and cerebellum, the orbit and eye-ball, and to a small extent from the meninges and diploe. They terminate in the internal jugular vein, The superior longitudinal sinus (Fig. 355), triangular in section with the apex downwards, commences at the crista galli, and, gradually increasing in size, extends backwards along the middle line to the internal occipital protuberance, where, turning sharply to the right, it becomes continuous ■with the right lateral sinus. Its lumen is at many places interrupted by transverse fibrous bands (the cords of Willis), and Pacchionian bodies here and there project into it. It receives the superior cerebral veins, most of which pass into it from behind forwards, a direction opposed to that of the current of blood within it. Some meningeal branches from the falx likewise enter it. In many cases it communicates through the parietal foramen with the veins of the scalp, and in early life constantly through the foramen caecum with those of the nose. Occasionally it terminates in the left lateral sinus. The inferior longitudinal sinus or vein (Fig. 355), a slender channel, receiving usually some branches from the falx, runs backwards in the free margin of the falx and terminates in the straight sinus. The straight sinus (Fig. 355), triangular in section with the apex upwards.