THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 446 stem, with the upper of the two bronchial arteries of the left side. The left bronchial arteries, generally two in number, spring from the upper part of the aortic trunk. The arteries pass outwards in the roots of the lungs behind the bronchi, and ramify with the air tubes. The intercostal arteries are usually nine in number on each side, the first two spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. They spring from the posterior part of the aorta, and pass outwards crossing the vertebral bodies, the first two or three with an inclination upwards, the others almost transversely. On account of the position of the parent trunk the higher branches of the right side are longer than the ^corresponding vessels of the left. In crossing the vertebral bodies the arteries of the right side pass behind the greater azygos vein and the thoracic duct, those of the left behind the smaller azygos veins, or the left superior intercostal vein. Opposite the necks of the ribs the vessels of each side are crossed in front by the gangliated cord of the sympathetic. At the posterior extremities of the spaces they lie upon the external inter- costal muscles, and are covered in front by the pleura, but further forwards they pass behind the internal intercostals, and afterwards continue tlieir course between the two muscular layers. In each space the artery runs in the subcostal groove, along the lower margin of the upper of the two ribs, its companion vein lying above it, and the intercostal nerve below: near the anterior extremity it terminates in anastomosis with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary, the musculo-phrenic, or the superior epigastric, according to the region. In addition to numerous small offsets, the intercostal arteries detach dorsal, collateral, and lateral branches. The successive intercostal arteries anastomose with one another by slender vessels which form two chains, one in front of the rib necks, the other hetween the rib necks and the transverse processes; in addition, the dorsal branches are connected with one another by slender twigs which lie behind the transverse processes. The first artery anastomoses with the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. The dorsal branch passes backwards between the transverse processes, by the inner edge of the superior costo-transverse ligament. It detaches offsets to the spinal canal (see p. 429), and afterwards divides among the muscles of the back into two vessels, internal and external in position, which accompany the branches of the posterior primary division of the corresponding spinal nerve. The collateral branch arises in the intercostal space, in the neighbourhood of the angles of the ribs. It descends at first, crossing the space obliquely, and afterwards runs forwards between the muscular layers, along the upper margin of - the lower of the two ribs. It terminates like the parent trunk in anastomosis with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary or musculo-phrenic. The lateral branch passes outwards along with the lateral branch of the intercostal nerve of the space, supplying the muscles and the skin. Besides the branches specially described, the intercostal arteries give off a number of