THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE HEART. 489 the ventricular septum. In the back part of the septum, an aperture, which forms the foramen ovale, is at first left, but becomes subsequently closed by a second septum. The left auricle becomes connected with the pulmonary veins in a manner which has not yet been accurately determined. The auricular appendices appear very early as ventral projections from each side of the common auricle. The arterial bulb is divided into two stems by a septum which starts between the fourth and fifth arterial arches as two folds, one from each side of the vessel; these gradually meet one another, and are continued backwards in a spiral manner to join the ventricular septum. The channels which result from this division are ultimately completely separated and become the basal portions of the aorta and pulmonary artery. At the ventricular orifice of the bulb the segments of the valves are formed by endocardial projections. Before the common arterial orifice is subdivided there are four endocardial projections or cushions at its base; the right and left cushions increasing in size meet one another and, becoming con- tinuous with the septum, subdivide the orifice into two, each of which presents three endocardial projections. The heart is at first situated in the region of the head, but during development it is gradually shifted downwards until it assumes its per- manent position in the thorax. The Development of the Arteries. In early embryonic life the bulbus arteriosus divides into two vessels which pass towards the head on the ventral aspect of the alimentary canal; springing from these the branchial arteries, forming a system of arterial arches, lie in series on the right and left sides of the alimentary canal, and fall into a couple of dorsal trunks which at first separately run the whole length of the body, but afterwards join with one another in the region below the heart and form there a single mesial vessel, the dorsal aorta. In fishes and amphibia, the arterial arches are connected with the gills; but in the higher forms, in which gills are never developed, the arterial arches pass dorsally at first in the successive branchial processes, and eventually partly disappear and partly give rise to the permanent vessels. There are five arches on each side in the embryos of all forms higher in the scale than the amphibia; but of these the first two, counting from the head, the mandibular and the hyoid arches, have only a transitory existence and disappear very early. In man the following changes take place : The portion of the dorsal longitudinal vessel, on each side, in the region between the third and fourth arches disappears. The portion above the third arch in which the current is directed towards the head forms part of the carotid system. Below the fourth arch two portions of the vessel may be recognized, viz., the aortic root and the mesial aorta, the latter being a common stem