MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. 321 and internal plantar nerves. The internal plantar supplies the flexor digitorum brevis, the abductor hallucis, the flexor hallucis brevis, and the innermost lumbricalis. All the other muscles in the sole are supplied by the external plantar. The flexor brevis digitorum occupies the middle of the sole. It is very narrow behind, but broadens considerably as it passes forwards. It sprmgs from the internal calcaneal tubercle, and receives many flbres from the plantar fascia, which covers it and detaches a septum on either side. Opposite the bases of the metatarsal bones it divides into two portions, each of which almost immediately gives origin to two tendons. The tendons pass to the four outer toes. Each, after entering a sheath, is perforated by a tendon of the long flexor, and is inserted into the second phalanx, the whole arrangement being similar to that already described in connection with the flexor muscles of the fingers. The abductor hallucis springs from the inner calcaneal tubercle, the internal annular ligament, and the investing plantar fascia, and receives in addition, in most cases, fibres from the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. Becoming tendinous behind the ball of the great toe, it is inserted in conjunction with the inner portion of the flexor brevis hallucis into the tuberosity at the inner side of the base of the first phalanx. The flexor hallucis brevis springs from the calcaneo cuboid and naviculo- cuneiform ligaments in close connection with the insertion of the tibialis posticus. The muscular belly divides into two portions, each of which is continued forwards into a tendon. The inner tendon conjoined with that of the abductor is inserted into the internal basal tuberosity of the first phalanx; the outer tendon, along with the adductor and transversus pedis, into the external tuberosity. A large sesamoid bone lies in each tendon of insertion. The adductor hallucis (adductor oblujuus) arises from the long plantar ligament and the basal extremities of the second and third metatarsal bones. It is inserted with the outer portion of the flexor brevis. The transversus pedis (adductor transversus), very small, passing almost directly inwards, and placed close to the bones, springs by slips from the metatarso-j^halangeal ligaments of the second, third, and fourth toes. It is inserted with the adductor hallucis. The muscle is covered by the flexor tendons, and crossed superficially by the digital nerves, but the digital arteries of the second and third interspaces pass forward on its dorsal surface. The abductor minimi digiti, very broad behind, arises from the under surface of the os calcis, immediately in front of the external and internal tubercles, and from the investing plantar fascia. Becoming narrow and tendinous as it passes forwards, it is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the fifth toe. The flexor minimi digiti brevis, a small fleshy slip, arises from the X