THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. The Axillary Artery. The axillary artery (Fig. 329) is the continuation of the subclavian and extends through the axilla from the outer margin of the first rib to the lower border of the teres major muscle. It enters the axilla at the apex and is continued downwards along the outer wall in contact Avith the coraco-brachialis and biceps, and rests behind successively upon the first and second digitations of the serratus magnus, the subscapulars, the latissimus dorsi, and the teres major. In front it is covered, in the greater part of its extent, by the pectoralis major, and behind that muscle, in order from below upwards, by the pectoralis minor, and costo-coracoid membrane, and, when the shoulder is depressed, the subclavius muscle. It extends below the lower border of the pectoralis major for about an inch and a half and is there comparatively superficial. It is in close relationship with the axillary vein and the nerve-cords of the brachial plexus. For convenience of description it is divided into three parts : the first, about an inch in length, above the pectoralis minor; the second, a trifle longer, behind that muscle; and the third, about three inches in length, below its lower border. The axillary vein lies internal to the artery in its whole length; the cephalic vein crosses in front of the first part of the artery; and one of the brachial venae comites frequently crosses in front of the third part. The three cords of the brachial plexus lie by the outer side of the first portion of the artery, but as they pass onwards they change their positions in relation to the vessel; the inner cord passes behind the artery and gains its inner side, where it lies between the artery and the vein; the posterior cord passes inwards and descends behind the artery; the outer cord approaches the artery and comes into contact with it externally. In the upper part of the axilla the nerve-cords detach one or two branches, and a little below the lower margin of the pectoralis minor they break up into their terminal divisions. The external anterior thoracic branch crosses in front of the first part of the artery, and the internal anterior thoracic passes forwards by the inner side of the second part, and the two nerves are connected with one another, forming a loop in front of the artery. The third part of the artery is crossed in front by the inner head of the median nerve; in contact with its outer side is the outer head of the median above and the completed trunk of that nerve below; with its inner side the internal cutaneous and ulnar nerves are in contact; the musculo-spiral nerve descends behind it. In addition to these, the posterior thoracic nerve (the nerve to the serratus magnus), which arises in the neck and passes into the axilla through the apex, lies for a little distance behind the first part of the artery. A number of lymphatic glands are in contact with the artery and its main branches. The branches of the axillary artery are inconstant both in number and size; the more