465 THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. the medullary artery of the tibia, one or two communicating branches, the internal malleolar branches, and one branch of considerable size, the peroneal. The medullary branch, the largest of its kind, arises near the upper end of the trunk, and enters the tibia. The communicating branches, one or two in number, pass outwards, in front of the tendons, about an inch or two inches above the heel, and communicate with similar branches from the peroneal artery. The internal malleolar branches, one or two in number, ramify upon the malleolus and anastomose with offsets of the anterior tibial and of the dorsal artery of the foot. The peroneal artery (Fig. 349), springing about an inch and a half below the commencement of the parent trunk, passes downwards and outwards towards the fibula, and then descends by the inner border of that bone, under cover of, or sometimes in the substance of the flexor hallucis longus muscle. About an inch and a half above the ankle it terminates by dividing into anterior and posterior branches. It is accompanied by two venae comites. In its course it gives ofl" a number of muscular branches, the meclullciry artenj of the fibula, and, near the ankle, one or more com- municating branches which join the corresponding branches of the posterior tibial. The anterior terminal branch, or anterior jperoneal artery, passes forwards through the interosseous membrane, and descends in front of the lower tibio-fibular articulation; it forms connections with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial, and ramifies in front of the mal- leolus. The posterior terminal branch descends behind the lower tibio-fibular articulation, ramifies round the point of the external malleolus, and anastomoses with the arteries in front of the malleolus and with branches of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. The External Plantar Artery. The external plantar artery (Fig. 350), the larger terminal division of the posterior tibial, takes origin midway between the point of the internal malleolus and the prominence of the heel, under cover of the internal annular ligament and the origin of the abductor hallucis. It passes at first obliquely forwards and outwards towards the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone; then, changing its direction, it bends inwards and forwards arching across the sole. It terminates at the proximal end of the first intermetatarsal space by inosculating with the extremity of the dorsal artery of the foot. As it passes forwards and outwards it is placed at first between the abductor hallucis and the calcaneum, and afterwards between the flexor digitorum brevis and the flexor accessorius. As it turns inwards, it lies in the space between the flexor digitorum brevis and the abductor minimi digiti and is thus comparatively superficial. In the last portion of its course it crosses the proximal extremities of the fourth, third, and second metatarsal bones, and is covered superficially 2 G