119 THE EIBS. dying away gradually beyond, it shelters the intercostal vessels and nerve. A supracosfal groove is well marked for a variable distance forwards from that on the neck. The fully developed ribs, when looked at from above, present two curves, the part extending from the head to the angle forming an arc of a smaller circle than that in whose circumference the part in front of the angle lies. When looked at in profile, they present a double curve, the slope being diminished at the angle and again increased at the anterior end, so that, when laid on a flat surface, the angle and the tip touch it while the intervening part does not, and the neck strikes upwards. They are also twisted on themselves, so that if at the middle they are held with the surfaces looking outwards and inwards, the deep surface of the neck and the superficial surface of the fore part of the shaft both look upwards as well as forwards. The first rib is remarkably short. The head is small, with only one articular facet. The neck is long, slender at the head, and thick at the prominent tubercle. The body has its superficial and deep surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and is broadened out like a scimitar. When the neck is held in the horizontal, which is its natural position, the body is slightly curved downwards, especially at the outer border midway forwards from the tubercle; and this curve is no mere result of muscular traction, for it exists even before birth. On the upper surface, more than half way forwards, there is a roughness prolonged into a small tubercle at the inner margin, marking the insertion of the scalenus anticus muscle, and separating two slight depressions, the posterior corresponding with the position of the subclavian artery and the anterior with the subclavian vein; while the part behind the posterior groove is extensively rough, and gives insertion to the scalenus medius. The second rib has its superficial surface looking upwards and out- wards, and its upper and inner border is about twice as long as the inner border of the first rib. In its shaft it is not only narrower than the first rib, but narrower than any of the succeeding ribs down to the tenth. Superficially, about midway forwards, it has a notable rough thickening where the serratus magnus is attached. The tenth rib has one articular surface on its head, and one at the tubercle. The eleventh and tivelfth ribs are known by their shortness and very slight curvature, and by having only one articular facet, which is on the head; while the angle is absent from both, or may be barely perceptible on the eleventh. The twelfth is always considerably the shorter of the two, and is usually from two to four inches in length. Both have a distinct twist, turning the fore part of the. inner surface slightly upwards. Variations. The ribs are sometimes increased in number on one or both sides by a small rib attached to the first lumbar vertebra. An