THE SUPERIOE MAXILLAEY NERVE. 545 directed upwards and supply the skin and conjunctiva of the lower lid. The lateral nasal branches, three or four in number, supply the integument of the side of the nose. The superior labial branches, usually four in number, descend to ramify in the skin and mucous membrane of the upper lip. The spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel's ganglion) (Figs. 406, 408), lies in the spheno maxillary fossa; it is triangular in outline, and measures from before backwards, its longest diameter, about a fifth of an inch. Its sensor// root comes from the superior maxillary of the fifth and is formed by the two spheno-palatine nerves already described. The motor and sympathetic roots are conjoined for some distance, and form the Vidian nerve which enters the ganglion from behind. The motor root, the great superficial petrosal nerve, takes origin from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve; it is directed forwards in the hiatus Fallopii, and is joined on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, in the foramen lacerum medium, by the sijmpathetic root, the great deep petrosal nerve, which is derived from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic. The Vidian nerve, thus formed, passes forwards in the Vidian canal to the posterior angle of the ganglion. It detaches one or two small branches which pierce the floor of the canal and ramify in the lining membrane of the upper and posterior part of the nasal fossa; their fibres probably run backwards in the trunk of the Vidian from the ganglion. The branches of the ganglion are superior, posterior, internal, and inferior. The orbited or superior branches, two or three slender twigs, enter the orbit, pierce its inner wall, and ramify in the lining membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells. The pharyngeal or posterior branch, a very slender twig, courses in the pterygo-palatine canal, detaches some twigs to the lining membrane of the sphenoidal sinus, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx in the neighbourhood of the Eustachian lube. The nasal branches, partly prolonged directly from the spheno-palatine roots, are directed inwards through the spheno-palatine foramen; they are eight or nine in number, and are mostly of small size. They ramify upon the roof, the posterior and lower part of the septum, and the lateral wall of the nose, extending as far down as the middle meatus. One of them, much larger than the others, the nasopalatine nerve (nerve of Cotunnius), descends upon the septum and enters the palate through the anterior palatine fossa, to terminate in branches which supply the mucous membrane of the anterior region of the hard palate and gum, and form communications with those of the great palatine nerve. The left naso-paiatine branch descends through the anterior of the foramina of Scarpa, while the right occupies the posterior, and communications pass between the two nerves. The palatine branches, three in number, descend in the palato-maxillary canal; like the nasal branches, they are ^mrtly prolonged directly from the spheno-palatine roots. They are named respectively from the bony apertures 2 i^i