683 THE VISCEEAL CAVITY. VISCERA. THE VISCERAL CAVITY. Having regard to the skeleton, the body may be said to present two great cavities, the neural and the visceral. The neural cavity contains the great centre of the nervous system, the cerebro-spinal axis, and is divisible into two parts, namely, first, the cranial cavity, expanded and irregular in form, containing the likewise expanded and irregular encephalon, and, secondly, the regularly segmented spinal canal containing the regularly constructed spinal cord. The neural cavity originates in the early embryo from the medullary groove, which becomes closed in by the meeting of the medullary folds in the middle line (p. 90), and is specially characteristic of the vertebrata. Fig. 51S.—Peritoneal Membra>;e denuded of Endothelium, showing capillaries, nucleated single nerve-fibres and amoeboid corpuscles. The capillaries contain blood. Photographed from cax-mine preparation. The visceral cavity, in the widest sense of the term, is the space occupied by viscera, and bounded more or less completely by skeletal and muscular walls, and exists not only in the thorax, abdomen and pelvis, ; but also in the head and neck as well; the pharynx, oesophagus, tongue, I larynx, trachea and thyroid body being all developed in connection with i the same mucous membrane as lines the abdominal part of the alimentary J canal. The term visceral cavity is, however, more frequently used in a ' more restricted sense, and aj^plied to the thorax, abdomen and pelvis, the regions characterized by containing large serous membranes. Not only are these membranes embryologically derived from a single pleuro- peritoneal sac or coelom, corresponding with the coeloni or hodij-cavitij of invertebrate animals, but the coelom is, in early embryonic life, found even in the head, in at least elasmobranch fishes (p. 93). In further development the common sac undergoes subdivision, the pericardium and the two pleural sacs being completely separated from the peritoneum,