436 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. with the posterior circumflex. On both surfaces of the scapula the branches of the suprascapular, posterior scapular, and subscapular arteries anastomose freely with one another. The branches of the long thoracic which reach the mamma anastomose there with derivatives of the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. Varieties of the axillary artery and its branches. In addition to the branches which have been described others are frequently met with; among these the superior thoracic running upwards and inwards from the first part, and the alar thoracic descending from the second part to supply the connective tissue and glands, may be specially mentioned. Occasionally (in the proportion of one in everj^ ten cases) a large branch, continued into one of the arteries of the forearm, comes off" the third part of the axillary trunk; this abnormality is one of the varieties of " high division " of the main artery of the limb. Frequently the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery comes off as a separate trunk, and, on the other hand, the subscapular and posterior circumflex often spring as a common vessel. The posterior circumflex is in many cases absent from the axillary alto- gether, its place being taken by a large branch which ascends behind the teres major muscle from the superior profunda of the brachial. The long thoracic artery is often double. Surgical anatomy of the axillary artery. When the arm is hanging by the side the artery is bent with the convexity upAvards, but when the limb is abducted to a position at right angles with the trunk the vessel holds a straight course, which may be marked by a line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to the inner border of the prominence of the coraco- brachialis and biceps muscles. The upper part of the artery is seldom interfered with by the surgeon, as the operation upon the third part of the subclavian is judged safer. In this portion of its course the vessel is deeply placed, and, along with the vein, is surrounded by a sheath con- tinued downwards from the neck. The vein, when the arm is abducted, overlies the first part of the artery, and its walls are so closely connected with the costo-coracoid membrane that a wound is liable to lead to great bleeding, and to the further danger of entrance of air into the heart. The first part of the artery has sometimes been torn in cases of disloca- tion or fracture. The lower half of the third part of the artery is usually selected for ligature; the vessel here lies by the inner side of the coraco- brachialis, immediately under the deep fascia. An incision, about three inches in length, is made along the line of the artery; the inner margin of the coraco-brachialis is exposed, and the musculo-cutaneous and median nerves are drawn outwards, the internal cutaneous nerve is drawn in- wards, and the hook passed from within outwards. The axillary vein is sometimes replaced in the lower part of the axilla by a continuation of the venae comites of the brachial; sometimes also an irregular band of muscular fibres from the latissimus dorsi crosses in front of the lower part of the artery. The current in the lower part of the artery may be