MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 381 and eighth ribs. In its lower part, below a line drawn between the most prominent parts of the iliac crests of the opposite sides, it is very weak, most of the fibres of the internal oblique and many of those of the trans- versalis passing to the anterior wall of the sheath. The lower edge of the strong upper portion, lying a little below the umbilicus, is often marked as a distinct curved line, the semilunar fold of Douglas. A second semilunar fold, a little nearer the pubis, is often present, marking the spot where the deep epigastric artery enters the sheath; it has been named the band of ffenle. The Unea alba is formed by the decussation of the tendinous fibres of the aponeuroses of the three broad muscles of the abdominal wall. It extends from the xiphoid process of the sternum to the pubis. It is somewhat broader above than below, and is pierced by numerous apertures for the passage of small vessels. The superficial fascia is adherent to it in front, the fascia transversalis behind. The umbilicus or navel is the mark left by the withering of the umbilical cord after birth. It is placed a little below the middle of the linea alba. From the front it appears as a somewhat rounded hollow, behind as a much smaller transversely elongated depression. It is occupied by some cicatricial and fatty tissue, by the urachus with the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and by the umbilical vein. The lower part of the space contains the urachus and the remains of the arteries, and is filled up by cicatricial tissue. The upper part of the space, much weaker, contains the remains of the vein surrounded by fatty tissue, which is continuous with the subcutaneous fat. Through the weak upper portion a hernial protrusion may take place. Actions of the abdomincd muscles. Acting from below they flex the vertebral column, depress the lower ribs, and exercise pressure upon the abdominal viscera. They assist powerfully in producing the evacuation of the contents of hollow viscera, and play an important part in the movements of forced expiration. The muscles of one side, acting alone, can bring about lateral flexion of the column. The quadratus lumborum has but little direct action upon the viscera, but assists in producing lateral flexure of the column; it draws downwards the last rib, and, on account of its antagonism to the diaphragm, has been regarded by some as an agent in inspiration. When the thorax and upper part of the column are fixed the abdominal muscles of one or both sides may, by acting upon the lower part of the column, raise the pelvis. Nerves. The muscles are supplied by the lower dorsal nerves, and by the upper branches of the lumbar plexus. The muscles which receive supply from lumbar nerves are the pyramidalis and the lower parts of the internal oblique and transversalis, which receive branches from the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the creniaster which is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural.