159 THE JOINTS OF THE WEIST AND HAND. separate synovial sac for the articulation of the first metacarpal bone with the trapezium, and that there may be a separate sac for that of the cuneiform with the pisiform. The articulation of the pisiform with the cuneiform is usually described as having a separate synovial membrane; but perhaps is as often found communicating with the cavity of the radio- carpal articulation. Two de- scemling ligaments pass from the pisiform bone to the base of the fifth metacarpal and the unciform process of the unci- form bone, and bear the strain of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The articulation of the tra- pezium with the first metacarpal hone is always distinct, and surrounded with a fibrous cap- sule, in connection with .which three ligamentous bands may be described, two of them, a palmar and a dorsal, being parts of the capsular wall uniting the first metacarpal to the trapezium, the dorsal band, the stronger and broader of the two, while the third is a distinct ligament at right cingles to both of them, ex- tending forwards from the base of the second metacarpal to the inner side of the palmar prominence at the base of the first metacarpal, and seems to have escaped notice. It may be termed the internal meta- ■carp)al ligament of the thumh. The ligaments of the first range of carpal bones, uniting the scaphoid and •cuneiform to the lunar, are the external and internal lunar interosseous^ -already described Avith the radio-carpal joint, and dorsal and palmar hands. The ligaments of the second range are dorscd, palmar and interosseous; but the interosseous differ from those of the first range in being rounded bundles which allow the synovial membrane to pass them. There is Fig. 159.—Ligaments of Back of Hand, a, Posterior radio-carpal ligament; h, posterior common carpal ligament, extending- from the cmieiform partly to tlie scaplioid and partly to the trapezoid and second metacarpal; c, external lateral ligament of the common carpal joint; <?, internal metacarpal ligament of thumb, and, above it, the posterior band of the carpo-metacarpal joint of thumb ; e, /, insertions of tendons of long and short radial extensors of carpus ; g, synovial membrane stretched by flexion of third metacarpo- phalangeal joint ; /«, external lateral ligament of second metacarpo-phalangeal joint; i, sj^ace between knuckle and extended phalanx.