MORPHOLOGY OF THE NERVES. 573 the voluntaiy muscles of trunk). The limb muscles in the lower forms are, like the muscles of the trunk, derived from the muscle plates. This has not been made out for the higher forms, but the nerves of the limb muscles in the higher classes seem to belong to the same group as those of the trunk muscles). The segmental nerve divides almost immediately on its formation into two portions, to which the names "spinal" and "sympathetic" have been given. The spinal portion contains the afferent epiblastic fibres, the afferent fibres of the voluntary muscles, and the efferent fibres of the voluntary muscles; the sympathetic portion, known as the white root, or white ramus communicans, of the sympathetic ganglion, probably contains all the other fibres, namely, those of the ventral gangliated group and the afferent fibres of the hypoblast and the general mesoblast. Immediately after the formation of the spinal and sympathetic portions, a rearrange- ment of fibres takes place, which results in the formation of the nerve trunks of distribution, which may be called "somatic" and "splanchnic." The rearrangement is brought about by the passage of fibres, the so-called grey root or grey ramus communicans, from the sympathetic ganglion ta the spinal nerve. The resulting somatic nerve trunk runs in the somato- pleuric wall, and contains all the afferent and efferent somatopleuric fibres; the remaining splanchnic trunk ramifies in the visceral wall, and contains all the splanchnic fibres. The following diagram shows the arrangement described above. In connection with the diagram, it has to be noted Fig. 415.—Diagi-am representing the probable course of the various kinds of fibres in a hypothetically complete Segmental Nerve (spinal region). 1, Epiblast afferent fibre; 2, 3, mesoblast afferent fibres ; 4, hypoblast afferent fibre ; 5, muscle plate afferent fibre ; 6, epiblast efferent fibre ; 7, S, mesoblast efferent fibres ; 9, hypoblast efferent fibre ; 10, muscle plate efferent fibre. Sp.G., Spinal ganglion ; S.N., segmental nerve; Sp., spinal portion of the segmental nerve (what is usually called the spinal nerve); Sy., sympathetic portion (white ramus communicans with sympathetic); g.r., gray ramus communicans ; Sovii., somatic trunk nmning in body wall ; Spl., splanchnic trunk running in splanchno- pleur ; «?/.&'., Sympathetic ganglion. (J.Y.M.) that the efferent fibres which pass to the sympathetic have been represented as if they all terminated in the ganglion of the main chain of the svmpathetic. Actually, however, a number of them pass Sp-Ct. 6 Ventral 7 root <) 10 Dorsal root 4 5 ,-,1 10 Somatic g"''/'Splanchnic