THE LYMPHATICS. 497 The thoracic duct (Fig. 359), about eighteen inches in length, com- mences in the upper part of the abdominal cavity, and ascends through the thorax to the neck, where it terminates by falling into the distal extremity of the left innominate vein. Its lower extremity is somewhat dilated and forms a thin walled sac, the receptaculum chyli, about an inch and a half in length, and a quarter of an inch in breadth, which lies upon the body of the second lumbar vertebra under cover of the right crus of the diaphragm, and to the right of and behind the aorta. As it ascends, the duct at first diminishes in breadth, but in the upper part of the thorax and in the neck its diameter gradually increases. A couple of valves prevent regurgitation at the venous orifice, and a large number are found in the course of the vessel. In the thorax the duct is placed, at first, to the right side of the aorta, between it and the great azygos vein, and rests upon the vertebral column and the right intercostal arteries. About the level of the fourth dorsal vertebra it crosses behind the arch of the aorta; thereafter it ascends upon the left side of the column behind the left subclavian artery, and on the left edge of the oesophagus. In the neck it runs upwards for a short distance behind and between the left carotid and subclavian arteries and then with a crook-shaped bend passes forwards, outwards, downwards, and eventually a little inwards, in front of the vertebral vein and the left subclavian artery, and terminates in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins of the left side. The thoracic duct is subject to numerous variations. It may begin higher or lower than usual; the place at which it crosses behind the aorta is not constant; it is sometimes double in a part of its course, or even throughout; it may terminate partly, or entirely, in the veins of the right side of the neck; it sometimes passes behind the vertebral vein; finally, instead of falling into the extremity of the innominate vein, it may end wholly or partly in one of the neigh- bouring large veins at the root of the neck or the upper part of the thorax. The receptaculum chyli receives the right and left lumbar trunks, and the mesenteric trunk; with the mesenteric trunk those of the coeliac glands are commonly associated. To the thoracic duct pass the efferent vessels from the whole of the left side of the thorax and a few of those from the lower part of the right side of that cavity; in the neck it is joined by the vessels from the left side of the head and neck and the left upper limb. The right lymphatic duct (Fig. 374), about half an inch in length, is formed by the union of trunks bringing the lymph from the right side of the head and neck with those coming up from the right axillary glands, and terminates in the angle of junction of the right internal jugular and right subclavian veins. In addition, it receives the lymphatic vessels from the greater part of the right wall of the thorax, and those of the right lung and the right side of the heart. • 2i