740 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. from the tongue, and presenting a mesial and two lateral glosso-epiglottidemi \ fmenula with shallow depressions between. The sides of this upper part are folded back round the front of the laryngeal opening. The laryngeal surface is closely invested with mucous membrane in its whole extent and | deeply pitted with mucous glands, and presents in its lower half a distinct j convexity, the pulvinus, which lies over the glottis when the epiglottis is depressed by the movement of the tongue and contraction of the thyro- hyoid muscles in swallowing.^ Joints and ligaments. The thyroid cartilage is attached to the cricoid j by a pair of synovial joints and a crico-thyroid ligament. The crico-thyroid articulation has, besides a synovial capsule, three ligaments spreading in different directions, the anterior and the upper and lower posterior Jcerato- cricoid ligaments, and admits of only one description of movement, namely, revolution round an axis passing through the joints of opposite sides. The crico-thyroid ligament is thick and strong, and consists of yellow-elastic fibres spread out at their attachment to that part of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage left uncovered by the thyroid cartilage, and converging as they ascend to be inserted into the deep surface of the mesial part of the thyroid cartilage. A small pit or perforation is left in the middle line, and the lateral border is continued into a much thinner structure, the crico-thyro-aryteiioid membrane, which arises from the inner lip of the remainder of the upper border of the cricoid cartilage as far back as the arytenoid cartilage, and is continued in contact with the mucous membrane up to the true vocal cord. Fig. 575.—Larynx, from above ; laryn^oscopic views, a, In deep respiration, showing ^ the trachea down to its bifurcation ; b, in uttering a high pitched note, a, Epiglottis ; M h, c, swellings corresponding to cartilaginous nodules of Wrisberg and Santorini ; d, true il vocal cord ; e, false vocal cord. (After Czermak.) The thyroid cartilage is attached to the hyoid bone by two ligaments and an intervening membrane. The lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments are two rounded cords, somewhat elastic, extending on each side from the tip of the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage to the extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and sometimes containing one or more cartilaginous ^ The epiglottis unquestionably comes like a lid over the larynx in swallowing^ notwithstanding that Professors Anderson Stuart and M'Cormick of Sydney record a case where food glided over the upper part of its laryngeal surface, after an operation, in which the hypoglossal nerve was admittedly destroyed, and the glosso-pharyngeal may have been [Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, Vol. xxv.).