428 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. muscle. The sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles cover it superficially; behind, it rests on the longus colli; the pleura is in contact with it below. The right subclavian and internal jugular veins unite in front of it to form the right innominate vein, and the vertebral vein descends in front of it. The pneumogastric and some loops of sympathetic nerve cross it superficially, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, turning round it, passes upwards and inwards behind it; the main trunk of the sympathetic descends behind it. The second part of the subclavian artery forms the highest part of the arch. It is covered in front by the scalenus anticus and sterno-mastoid muscles, and is in contact with the pleura below and behind; the brachial plexus lies above it. The subclavian vein is placed a little lower than the artery, and in front of it, being separated from it by the scalenus anticus. The phrenic nerve descends, on the right side, in front of the inner part of the second portion of the artery; on the left side, as already described, it runs downwards in front of the outer part of the first portion of the artery. The third part of the subclavian artery extends downwards and outwards from the outer margin of the scalenus anticus to the outer margin of the first rib. It is the most superficial portion of the vessel and is likewise the longest of the three parts; it lies, under cover of the deep cervical fascia, in a triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the margins of the sterno- mastoid and omo-hyoid muscles, and the clavicle. Behind, it is in contact with the scalenus medius, and below, it rests upon the first rib. The sub- clavian vein is lower than, and in front of, the artery; and the external jugular vein, descending to the subclavian, crosses it superficially, receiving as it passes in front of the artery, the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins from the shoulder. The suprascapular artery running behind the clavicle crosses the third part of the subclavian, and the transverse cervical arterj^, passing outwards in the neck, lies above it. The brachial plexus lies above and behind it, the lowest cord being in close contact with it. The slender nerve to the subclavian muscle crosses it in front, and the supraclavicular branches of the cervical plexus descend in the superficial tissue in front of it. The branches of the subclavian, artery are—(1) the vertebral, (2) the internal mammary, (3) the thyroid axis, and (4) the superior intercostal artery. The three first mentioned spring from the first part of the artery, the last usually takes origin from the second portion; the third part, save in abnormal circumstances, gives off" no branch. (1) The vertebral artery (Fig. 318) arises from the upper border of the first part of the subclavian artery, a little distance from the margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. It is at first directed upwards and a little out- wards to reach the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra; it then passes almost directly upwards through the successive higher foramina, save that in passing from that of the second to that of the first vertebra it bends considerably outwards. After threading the trans-