MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 273 middle and ring fingers lying in front of those for the index and little fingers. Opposite the first phalanx each tendon splits into two portions, which embrace the tendon of the deep flexor, bending round it till the original borders meet and eff'ect a junction behind it. Immediately before the insertion, which takes place into the borders of the anterior surface of the second phalanx, the tendon again splits into two portions. The tendons, along with those of the deep flexor, are surrounded by a synovial sheath as they pass behind the annular ligament. Passing along the anterior surface of the phalanges the pair of tendons belonging to each finger is covered by an arch of strong fibrous tissue {the vaginal ligament) springing from the margins of the bones; opposite the joints the sheath is much reduced in thickness to allow of flexion, and is formed of a delicate membrane with diagonally-crossing fibres attached behind to the interphalangeal ligaments. At the third phalanx the sheath is much reduced and forms a thin covering to the tendon of the deep flexor. This long canal is lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected over the tendons so as to surround each, but little bands of membrane {vincula tendinum) pass from one tendon to another, and from the tendons to the bones. The vincula are of two kinds; each tendon close to its termination is attached to the phalanx above that into which it is inserted by a considerable band, the ligamentum hreve; other more delicate and less constant connections are termed ligamenta longa. Deep Anterior Group. The muscles of this group are three in number—the flexor digitorum profundus, flexor pollicis longus, and pronator quadratus. They are closely applied to the anterior surface of the bones of the forearm. The pronator quadratus, a flat four-sided muscle, arises from the anterior surface of the lower fourth of the ulna, and is inserted into the anterior surface and inner border of the corresponding portion of the radius. The other two deep muscles descend in front of it. The flexor digitorum profundus, embracing the coronoid process above and extending in its origin as far as the margin of the pronator quadratus below, arises from the anterior and inner surfaces of the upper three- fourths of the shaft of the ulna, the ulnar half of the corresponding region of the interosseous membrane, and, on the inner side, from the aponeurosis attached to the posterior border of the ulna. It passes to the four inner fingers, and is inserted in each case into the anterior surface of the terminal phalanx at its base. The tendons lie side by side as they pass behind the anterior annular ligament, and only become distinctly separate from one another when they reach the palm. Along with those of the superficial flexor which lie in front of them, they are at the Avrist surrounded by a synovial sheath. In the palm they give origin S