412 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. recurrent laryngeal branch of the left pneumogastric turns round beneath it and passes upwards towards the neck behind it. The deep cardiac plexus lies behind it, between it and the trachea; the superficial cardiac plexus lies beneath it, between it and the pulmonary artery. Many lymphatic glands lie behind and beneath it. Three large branches—the innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian— are given off from its convexity. The ligamentum arteriosum is attached to its lower border immediately beyond the place of origin of the left sub- clavian artery. Varieties of the aorta are very numerous, but most of them are to be explained by slight variations in the growth of different parts of the vessel; thus, neighbouring branches may be approximated to or even con- nected basally with one another, or, on the other hand, they may be unduly separated from one another. In the same manner some of the nearer derivatives of the main branches are sometimes transferred to the aorta itself, the most common case being that of the left vertebral artery. Occasionally it is the right vertebral which is so transposed, and among other arteries the internal and external carotids (the common carotid being absent), the thyroidea ima, the inferior thyroid, and the internal mammary have been, in special cases, noted as springing from the aorta. Slight variations in the exact position of the arch are not infrequent, and it may be placed either higher or lower than usual. Among the more important malformations are some which depend on very early developmental changes, and will be best understood by the student after reference to the chapter on the development of the primary vessels. Sometimes the trunk arches to the right instead of to the left side, a variation which is occasionally accompanied by a transposition of the viscera generally, and depends on the survival of the right aortic root of the embryo instead of the left. In very rare cases both right and left arches have been found present. The right subclavian is occasionally the last of the great branches arising from the arch, and in this case the fourth right arch, which forms the usual root of the right subclavian, has disappeared, but, on the other hand, the right aortic root has reniained patent and forms the basal portion of the vessel; with this malformation it has been noticed that frequently the thoracic duct opens into the great veins of the right side instead of into those of the left. A number of mal- formations of such a very serious nature as to be inconsistent with life have been found in foetuses. They are chiefly interesting from the light which they throw on early developmental processes. The Innominate Artery. The innominate artery arises from the aorta opposite the middle point of the manubrium. It passes upwards and to the right, and terminates immediately behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation by dividing