MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. thoracic wall in the vicinity of the angles of the ribs ; they are associated with the internal muscles and usually cross over more than one inter- space. The intercostal muscles are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The levatores costarum, twelve in number on each side, are small triangular muscles placed on the hinder aspect of the posterior extremities -of the ribs. Each springs from the posterior surface and lower edge of the extremity of a transverse process, and passing downwards and out- wards parallel to the line of an external intercostal muscle, is inserted into the upper margin and posterior surface of the rib, immediately below, in the region between the tubercle and the angle. The first springs from the transverse process of the last cervical, and the last from that of Levator costae External intercostal Fig. 289.—The Levatores Costarum. (L. Testiit.) the eleventh thoracic vertebra. Near the lower end of the series a few of the muscles present additional slips which, under the name of levatores costarum longiores, cross over two interspaces. The diaphragm, or midriff, is a vaulted musculo-tendinous partition which separates the thorax from the abdomen, and is pierced by the structures which pass from the one cavity to the other. The fibres arise from the front of the lumbar portion of the column, from the fascia covering the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles, from the cartilages of the six lower ribs, and from the ensiform process of the sternum; they con verge to a central tendon which forms the dome of the vault. The central or trefoil tendon is formed of interwoven fibres continuous with the fleshy fibres of the muscle. It is concave posteriorly, convex and partially divided into three leaflets anteriorly—the left leaflet being the smallest, the right the largest of the three. The upper surface of the central leaflet is firmly attached to the pericardium, and rises as high as the level of the xipho-sternal articulation. The left leaflet rises to about