661 THE EYE. layers slope obliquely to that spot. The ganglionic layer in the macula lutea has its corpuscles greatly increased in number, lying five or six deep, and with the protoplasmic poles reduced to one each; but in the fovea centralis the nerve-corpuscles are altogether absent. Also the inner nuclear layer is absent in the fovea centralis, and the outer nuclear layer shows one corpuscle for each cone, separated by a certain distance from the external limiting membrane. The fovea centralis receives images from an area of about quarter of an inch at ten inches from the eye, and it is easy to observe by fixing the eye on one letter in a line of print at that distance that this is the full extent of the most distinct vision. The accumulation of cones in the fovea centralis appears, therefore, to prove that they are more perfect structures than rods, while their smaller size here than elsewhere gives a greater number of separately recognizable points within a limited space.^ Fig. 405.—Schema of Section through Fovea Centralis and Macula Lutea. 1, Pigmented epithelium; 2, cones; 3, external limiting membrane; 4, external nuclear layer ; 5, fibres of cones ; 6, external plexiform layer ; 7, internal nuclear layer ; 8, internal plexifomi layer ; 9, ganglionic layer ; 10, nerve-fibrous layer and internal limiting mem- brane. (After Max Schultze.) The transparent structures within the eyeball consist of the vitreous body, the crystalline lens and membranes which surround them so that they can be removed from the globe in one coherent mass. The vitreous body or vitreous humour fills up, together with the crystalline lens, the space surrounded by the three coats of the eye. It is a transparent substance, bright and colourless, which, when unsupported, alters its shape like a delicate jelly. It is surrounded by a closely adherent transparent and structureless hyaloid memhrane, more tenacious than its internal sub- stance ; and this is inseparably^ united in front with the capsule investing ^Obviously there is no separate communication between the brain and each rod or cone, and the brain cannot receive separate impressions from each. See Cleland, "Physical Relations of Consciousness," Journal of Anatomy and Pltysiology, November, 1870. Recent researches make the truth then put forward more abundant!}^ evident.