286 THE MUSCLES. <innular ligament; in front of the wrist the anterior annular ligament, much stronger than the posterior, is continuous superficially with the fascia. The anterior annular ligament, a thick broad band, is fixed to the trapezium and scaphoid on the outer side, and to the pisiform bone and unciform process on the inner side. At its lower edge it is continuous with the palmar aponeurosis, and gives origin to some of the muscles of the thumb. The ulnar artery and nerve pass in front of the main body of the ligament, but are frequently covered by a few of the most superficial fibres. The median nerve and the tendons of the long flexors of the fingers and that of the thumb pass behind it. The tendon of the radial flexor of the carpus descends in a special canal at the outer attachment of the ligament. The posterior annular ligament is not nearly so strong as the anterior ligament. It is fixed on the inner side to the pisiform bone, and on the outer side to the outer margin of the radius, but at both extremities it is further continued to blend with the fascia of the front of the limb. It is fixed on its deep surface to the ridges on the back of the radius and ulna and to the back of the capsule of the wrist-joint, and thus completed, a number of osteo-fibrous canals are formed, along which the extensor tendons pass. Deep Fascia of the Hand. Two layers of the deep fascia are found in the palm. One is more superficial, and covers the tendons of the long flexor muscles and the vessels and nerves, and spreads laterally as thin expansions over the thenar and hj^pothenar eminences; the other is more deeply placed, and invests the interosseous muscles and blends on eitlier side, among the muscles of the thumb and little finger, with the lateral expansions of the superficial layer. Two vertical septa pass between the superficial and deep layers, and separate the regions occupied by the short muscles of the thumb and little finger respectively from the central space of the hand. The palmar aponeurosis is the strong central portion of the superficial layer. It is triangular in outline, with its apex at the annular ligament. The fibres are chiefly longitudinal in direction, but towards the base a number of transversel}^ running fibres, forming the superficial transverse ligament, are added. A little above the clefts of the fingers the longi- tudinally directed fibres of the aponeurosis are collected into four slips, one corresponding to each of the inner digits. Each slip, after detaching first a superficial bundle which passes downwards in front of the superficial transverse ligament to be attached to the skin at the base of a finger, is continued onwards on the deep surface of the superficial transverse ligament, and splits into two portions to give passage to the flexor tendons which descend upon the front of the digit; the portions into which each slip splits are attached to the metacarpo-phalangeal ligaments, and blend w4th