50 GENEEAL ANATOMY. caused by- constriction of the lumen of the primitive sheath, and have the appearance of a transverse septum projecting inwards from it. They are sometimes described as occurring one between every pair of successive nuclei, but the nuclei are more frequent than the nodes have ever been figured. Oblique notches, notches of Lantermann, are often met with dividing the medullary substance another; but they result i into cones, different series of them facing one from the effect of reagents and manipulation. Of non-medullated fibres more than one variety ought to be recognized. Threads already alluded to, more or less broad, with elongated oval nuclei pressing in from the sides, appear to be properly described as axis-cylinders with the sheath prolonged on them, in so far as the nuclei are obviously the same as those on the sheath of medullated nerves. There are also naked axis-cylinders near the terminations of nerves, without any nuclei disposed on them. Lastly, there is to be distinguished from these a set of nerve-fibres abundant in the sympathetic system, present also in cerebro- spinal nerves, called sometimes fibres of Bemak, and consisting of threads interrupted by elon- gated nuclei. The threads vary in breadth, being sometimes granular and as broad as the nuclei, but sometimes of the utmost tenuity and branching in their course. On certain of the smaller nerve-fibres amjmUae occur of two kinds. One kind, abundant on fine fibres in the cortex of the brain, is caused by irregular disposition of the medullary substance, and is probably always an appearance resulting from manipulation. The other consists of regular dilatations of an axis-cylinder, as in the neuro-fibrous layer of the retina, and the artificial origin of this kind of ampulla is more questionable. The milky white of the cerebro-spinal nerves arises from the large amount of medullary substance on a number of the fibres, the same cause as gives the whiteness to the white brain-substance. The less brilliant tint of the sympathetic nerves arises from the larger number of non- medullated or poorly medullated nerve-fibres. Nerve-corpuscles are more frequently termed nerve-cells, but have no proper cell-wall. They vary in diameter from as much as J^th of an Fig. 47.—Unipolar Nerve-Cor- puscles, from jugular ganglion of vagus nerves of dog, showing the single pole dividing into a large fibre, and a small fibre, c. The abundantly nucleated sheath is also shown, which invests the corpuscles of the ganglia of nerve-roots and of the sympathetic chain. (Kolliker, after Retzius.)