THE SKELETON. 158 but the additional quarter-circle is obtained from the shoulder-joint. ^ Owing to the capitellum looking forwards, the head of the radius begins to glide away from the humerus as soon as the elbow is extended beyond rectangular flexion; and in complete extension only its edge remains in contact, while a large angular gap is left behind to be filled with synovial membrane. The radius, therefore, is more advantageously placed to resist pressure when the elbow is somewhat flexed. It is most thoroughly in contact with the humerus when it is partially pronated, and the elbow is bent to a right angle. The Joints of the Wrist and Hand. The radio-carpal articulation, or wrist-joint, presents a superior articular surface, concave from side to side and from before backwards, divided into three facets, the outer two on the radius, and the inner formed by the triangular fibro-plate; while inferiorly a corresponding convex surface is formed by the upper sur- faces of the scaphoid, lunar and cuneiform bones, united by an external and an internal lunar interosseous ligament. The ligaments thus named extend the whole distance from behind forwards between the upper lateral borders of the lunar bone and the opposed borders of the scaphoid and cuneiform bones respectively, and are lined above by the radio-carpal sjmovial membrane, and below by the synovial membrane of the common carpal articulation. Strong internal and ex- ternal lateral ligaments descend from the styloid processes of the ulna and radius respectively to be inserted into the cunei- form and scaphoid bones. The posterior ligament or back part of the fibrous capsule has its fibres directed obliquely downwards and inwards; while the fibres of the anterior ligament or fore part of the capsule converge pennately to the lunar bone from the radius and the triangular fibro-plate. The carpal, carpo-metacarpal and intermetacarpal joints have one synovial cavity common to them, with the exception that there is a 1 In watching natural pronation and supination in the living body, it may be noticed that the ulna moves as well as the radius, as if the axis of the revolution were between the two ; but careful study shows that this appearance depends on a slight rotation of the humerus, and if the humerus be well crushed up to keep it from turning, the low^er •end of the ulna remains stationary in pronation and supination. It is alleged by some that a slight lateral movement of the ulna is allowed, but this is certainly a mistake. b Fig. 158.—Radio-Carpal and Common Carpal Articulation laid open from Taehind. a, Lower end of ulna clothed with sacciform capsule as it is seen in pronation ; b, ridge on radius outside the oblique groove for extensor secundi inter- nodii pollicis ; c, triangular fibro-plate; d, scaphoid portion of the inferior surface of the radius, separated, in this specimen, from the lunar surface by a synovial fringe ; e, lunar ; /, head of os magnum ; g, carpo-metacarpal joint of thumb.