THE EYEBALL. 655 only ill front but also behind it in a space which was distinguished as the posterior chamber; but such an arrangement only occurs as an unusual abnormality detectable by quivering of the iris from want of support. The pigmented epithelium on the posterior surface of the iris rests peri- pherally on the free tips of the ciliary processes which fit into the plications of the zonule of Zinn, while in its remaining extent it presses on the front of the capsule of the lens. The circular space bounded superficially by the sclerotic groove, and on the deep side by origins of the ciliary muscle and iris, is now generally termed the canal of Schlemm, but is undoubtedly the same as the broader canal seen in the ox and other animals, and long known as the canal of Fontana or sinus circiilaris iridis. The term spaces of Fontana has come into use to indicate a range of intervals between the fibres continued into the iris from the membrane of Descemet, which may be safely described as communicating with other intervals situated between the bundles of the ciliary muscle and giving a netted appearance to radial sections. The epithelium of the tunica media, named by Max Schultze the 'pigmented layer of the retina, extends to the margin of the pupil. It is developed in connection with the tunica media, and not, as has been erroneously alleged, with the retina; for the retina is the invaginated part of the primary optic vesicle of the embryo, the choroid the uninvaginated part; and the ^ pigmented epithelium, in contact from the first ^^^,1^?^^ with the choroid, only comes into apposition with the retina at a period later than the ^'■'j';(f'iM;.^,;-^'>-.^''" appearance of the pigment. In its greater fig. 490.-Hexagonal Corpuscles part, behind the ora serrata of the retina, the °^ pigmented epithelium. «, as ^ ' ' seen from the svirface; 6, showing piajmented epithelium is a sinde layer, and contractile processes; c, as seen ■•^ ° ^ o J ' completely m profile. the cells are hexagonal, each showing a clear nucleus and separated by a clear line from its neighbours. In the perfectly preserved condition they present an outer part or base comparatively free from pigment, and a pigmented deep part prolonged into a multitude of fine thread-like processes dipping between the outer ends of the elements of the bacillary layer of the retina, especially when it has been exposed to bright light. In the choroidal part of its extent the pigment of the epithelium is most abundant at the back of the eye. In the lower animals it is absent from the epithelium over those places where the tapetum is present. In front of the ora serrata—namely, at the back of the orbiculus ciliaris, ciliary processes and iris—the epithelial cells are densely pigmented, close together, of lenticular form, and several layers deep; but the prominent ridges of the ciliary processes are usually left uncovered, and, in a bisected eyeball, shine through the vitreous humour as white rays. In some instances the orbiculus ciliaris is devoid of pigment, while pigment is present both in front of it and behind it.