THE LYMPHATICS. 500 manner, and are scattered through the mesentery, most numerously, how- ever, in the upper half, from the base to within two inches of the margin of the bowel; a special group near the termination of the artery receives the name of ileo-colic. The mesenteric glands receive the lacteals from the lower part of the duodenum, the jejunum, ileum, and a part of the ascending colon, and discharge themselves into the receptaculum chyli by a trunk which receives the efferent vessels of the mesocolic and coeliac glands. The mesocolic glands, twenty to thirty in number, and of small size, lie between the layers of the mesocolon, and receive the vessels from the transverse colon and the upper portions of the ascending and descending colon. Their efferent vessels pass to the duct of the mesenteric glands. The coeliac glands, sixteen to twenty in number, lie in front of the aorta and surround the coeliac axis. They receive the lymphatic vessels of the greater part of the liver, the stomach, the upper part of the duodenum, the spleen, and the pancreas. Their efferent vessels, joining that of the mesenteric glands, enter the receptaculum chyli. Many of the lymphatics of the liver on their way to the coeliac glands pass through a number of small glands, the hepatic glands, which lie in front of the portal vein, between the layers of the small omentum. The vessels from the stomach are connected with small superior and inferior gastric glands which form chains upon the smaller and greater curvatures respectively, A few small splenic glands are found at the hilum of the spleen. Vessels. Parietal lymphatics. The superficial vessels of the perineim, along with those of the penis, pass to the inner end of the superior super- ficial inguinal chain. The deep vessels of the perineum pass with the pudic arteries, and those of the penis, partly, with the pudic arteries and, partly, with the dorsal vein, to the internal iliac glands. The superficial vessels of the ahdomimil wall pass downwards to the superior superficial inguinal glands, and upwards to the axillary glands. The deep vessels of the pelvic wall pass to the internal iliac and sacral glands; those of the abdominal icall terminate in the external iliac, lateral lumbar, and mesial lumbar glands, and in the glands which lie by the sides of the internal mammary arteries. Visceral lymphatics. The vessels from the testicle ascend in the cord to the lumbar glands, and those of the ovary and the upper part of the uterus have a similar termination. The vessels of the lower part of the uterus and the vagina end chiefly in the internal iliac glands, but a few accompanying the round ligament end in the superficial inguinal glands. Those of the Uaclcler, vesiculae seminales, and prostate glaiid pass, in great part, to the internal iliac glands, but a few from the back of the bladder, in the male, join the rectal lymphatics, and with them reach the sacral glands. The lymphatics from the kidneys and suprarenal capsules pass to the lumbar glands. Lymphatics of the intestine. The vessels from the rectum pass to the rectal glands, and thence to the sacral glands; those from the sigmoid flexure and the lower half of the descending colon join the duct of the left lumbar glands; those from the upper portion of the descending, the