THE SKELETON. 246 prochordal parts, to which the name trabeculae is more strictly confined, pass forwards, one on each side of the pituitary body, to end in the fronto- nasal region in cornua turning outwards. The parachordal parts, which would appear to be at a certain period distinct from the prochordal, unite around the notochord, and send an extension on each side round the foramen magnum and thence forwards round the internal ear. The pro- chordal parts unite first in front of the pituitary fossa, and afterwards floor it. The mesial bar thus formed in front of the pituitary fossa is. the source of the fore part of the body of the sphenoid and of the whole septum of the nose, while the cornua go to the formation of the lateral nasal cartilages; and by lateral outspread further back the cartilaginous- basis of the great and small sphenoidal wings and of the lateral masses of the ethmoid is laid down. The development of cartilage is confined to the lower part of the cranium, but I find it extending a small way on the inside of the lower part of the supra-occipital element, and alsO' inside the back part of the squamous portion of the temporal. Beneath the cranium there are three pairs of cranial bars. The fore- most was observed by Kitchen Parker in the pig, developed in the maxillary lobe, short and feeble, in the region of the palate and pterygoid bones. The others are the mandibular and hyoid arches; and at their base there is at first one continuous car- tilage which soon becomes divided into malleus and incus (and stapes,, etc.); while from the malleus a bar, Meckel's cartilage, is continued down to meet its neighbour at the symphysis, and can be traced as late as the fourth and fifth months in close connection with the mandible, which is formed superficial to it, while the upper part persists as the processus gracilis of the malleus. The hyoid arch at an early period forms, like Meckel's cartilage, a complete car- tilaginous bar continuous with its fellow of the opposite side. It is developed in the second visceral or poststomal lobe of the embryo (p. 98), its lower part forming the body and small cornu of the hyoid bone, and remaining continuous, till at least the end of the third month, with the upper part, the styloid process of the temporal bone.^ Fig. 223.—Part of Base of Skull of Foetus of Four Months, a, Right squamous ; b, cartilaginous incus with stapes continuous with it; c, malleus with Meckel's cartilage proceeding from it on inner side of d, the lower jaw ; e, an early and constant continuity of the cartilage of the mastoid with the short process of the incus and the hyoid arch ; /, cartilaginous petrous ; g, fenestra rotunda. ^ The upper connections of the styloid part of the hyoid cartilage require further investigation. Reichert described this cartilage as continuous with the stapes, but Eraser has pointed out that this is a mistake. I have verified Eraser's observations ;, and undoubtedly the connection seen by Reichert is not cartilaginous but only the