325 MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. "by the gastrocnemius, causing extension and raising the heel from the ground. On account of its great strength and the shortness and obliquity -of its fibres, the muscle serves the purpose of a strong elastic ligament behind the ankle-joint, and plays an important part in supporting the joint in the erect position of the body. The form of club-foot known as talipes cqninus, in which the heel is raised and the patient walks upon the toes, is due to the abnormal contraction of the muscles inserted by the tendo Achillis. The tibialis anticiis and peroneus tertius flex the ankle; the former also assists in inversion, the latter in eversion of the sole. The extensor digitorum longvs and the extensor hallucis longus, after full extension of the digits, also take part in flexion of the ankle. Talipes calcaneus, in which the toes are extended and the ankle flexed, the patient walking upon the heel, is dependent on the muscles of the anterior region of the leg. The tibialis posticus inverts the sole and slightly extends the ankle. Talipes varus, in which the inner side of the foot is raised ixnd the heel drawn up, is dependent on this muscle, with the frequent association of the tibialis anticus; the variety known as eqiiino-rarus, in which the heel is still further raised, depends upon the implication of the muscles inserted by the tendo Achillis. The peroneus longus and brevis extend the ankle and evert the sole. Talipes valgus, in which the outer side of the foot is raised, is dependent on these muscles, and when those of the anterior region are likewise involved, the variety calcaneo-valgiis is produced. The flexor digitorum longus, after full flexion of the digits, or when the toes are fixed, assists in extension of the ankle; its action upon the toes is brought into the line of the foot by the flexor accessoriiis. The action of the other muscles of the foot is sufliciently indicated by the names which are applied to them. FASCLV OF THE LEG AND P^OOT. The deep fascia of the leg, strong and resistant, is continuous over the popliteal space and on the inner side of the limb with the fascia lata. In the upper part of the leg it is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps, sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, and semimem- branosus muscles. It is firmly fixed over the prominent parts of the bones, being thus attached to the head of the fibula, the external tuberosity of the til^ia, the anterior border, the whole inner surface, and the posterior border of that bone, and the internal and external malleoli. From its deep surface fibrous septa pass to the anterior and external l)orders of the fibula, separating the peroneus longus and brevis muscles from those in front and behind. Among the anterior muscles a short vertical septum, confined to the upper part of the leg, passes between the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum longus; and among the posterior muscles a transverse septum, attached to the outer border of