221 THE TEMPORAL BONE. much longer, both because it is prolonged further forwards, and because it begins further back opposite the postglenoid tubercle. It is continued into the posterior root over the external auditory meatus, and still further back into a supramastoicl crest, and, together with these, gives attachment to the temporal aponeurosis. Above and behind the external auditory meatus a little pit, the post-auricular depression, is almost constantly formed in connection with a slightly projecting squamous attachment of the cartilage of the ear. The external surface of the squamous part is marked by the attachment of the temporal muscle; the internal surface is marked by impressions of cerebral convolutions and branches of the middle meningeal artery. The mastoid process has two serrated borders, a horizontal and a vertical, which articulate respectively with the parietal and occipital. It is named Jugular fossa For jugular process of occipital Fig. 206.—Right Temporal from behind. from the mastoid process, which projects downwards behind the external auditory meatus and owes its inflated appearance in the adult to air-cells opening into the back of the tympanum. On the deep side of the mastoid process, overhung by it, is the deep digastric fossa or clefts giving origin to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle; and from the extremity of the process a line passes upwards and backwards, dividing the muscular roughnesses into an anterior area, the origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and a posterior area, which is closer to the digastric groove, and subdivided into a part devoted to the splenius capitis, and a smaller and deeper part receiving the insertion of the trachelo-mastoid muscle. Internal to the digastric cleft, and close to the occipital border, is the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. On the cerebral surface, in the retreating angle between the mastoid and the petrous parts, there descends a deep groove, in which lies the sigmoid part of the lateral sinus, and