129 MOVEMENTS OF THE AXIAL SKELETON. handle of a bucket. Also, in a dissected thorax, it may be noticed that when the sternum is moved upwards and downwards, the first costal arch, being the shortest of those attached to it, exhibits the greatest amount of angular motion. But in respiration, owing to the mode in which the elevating force is applied, and the resistance opposed to the rise of the first rib, the movements of the chest are quite different. In quiet respiration in the healthy chest the first rib and the top of the sternum remain unelevated, while the lower end of the sternum is raised and slightly advanced; and in forced respiration, although the first rib and top of the sternum are raised, their movement is not to the same extent as that of the sequent ribs and the lower end of the sternum. The body of the sternum in respiration is pushed by the successive costal cartilages when these are raised, and offers resistance to them; also, the backward sweep given to the hinder parts of the shafts would obviously cause their extremities, if free, to retreat from the middle line. By these two factors the larger sternal ribs are bent on themselves, and the angles above their junctions with their cartilages are forcibly opened in each inspiration, so that the parts spring back when the respiratory effort ceases. It can easily be seen in healthy respiration that the thorax is increased in size in every direction, namely, upwards, downwards, back- wards, forwards, and transversely. But when the lower end of the sternum is abnormally turned in underneath the manubrium, it can no longer be pushed forwards by the costal cartilages. The movements of respiration can be demonstrated both on the dead subject and on the living to be influenced greatly by the position of the vertebrae. When the thoracic part of the column is extended, the ribs are raised and the intercostal spaces widened; when it is bent, the reverse takes place. In consequence of this, if the body be bent forwards and a full breath be taken and the breath held, a considerable amount of additional air can be inhaled when the erect attitude is resumed. Con- versely, if, with the back well straightened, as deep an expiration as possible be made and the breath then held while the body is bent, an additional expiration is permitted.^ When the thoracic vertebrae are rotated, the ribs of the side toward which the head is turned are elevated, and those of the opposite side are depressed, while costal respir- ation is interfered with. The whole axial skeleton is much more frequently balanced in an unsymmetrical than in a symmetrical position. The position termed in military drill "standing at ease" is much more natural than that which is understood by " attention"; that is to say, that the natural position in standing is with the main weight supported upon one limb, the knee of which is straight, while the other limb has the knee bent. In such circumstances the pelvis is necessarily thrown into an oblique position, ^ These facts have been overlooked by physicians in measuring vital capacity, and even to some extent in resuscitating the drowned. I