424 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. plexus and detaches twigs to the optic thalamus and to the hippocampus major. The posterior communicating artery, usually a slender trunk, but of very variable size., and commonly unequal on opposite sides of the body, springs from the internal carotid immediately before its terminal division. It passes backwards, crossing the optic tract and crus cerebri, and joins the posterior cerebral artery. It gives off one or two slender branches to the crus and to the optic thalamus. The anterior cerebral artery, from the termination of the internal carotid, runs forwards and inwards between the olfactory tracts and optic nerves to the great longitudinal fissure, where it approaches very closely its fellow of the opposite side with which it is put into communication by a short transverse trunk, the anterior communicating artery. There- after, in company with its neighbour, it courses in the longitudinal fissure, turning over the genu and runnning backwards upon the surface of the corpus callosum to anastomose with the posterior cerebral artery. Its branches are—(a) a few slender deep branches which, along with those of the anterior communicating artery, constitute the aiitero-mesial group; they pierce the lamina cinerea and supply the anterior end of the caudate nucleus; (b) a number of superficial branches of which (1) two or three inferior frontal vessels supply the anterior and inner part of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe; (2) two or three internal frontal vessels supply the mesial surface, and sweep over the margin of the hemisphere to supply the anterior and upper part of the outer surface of the frontal lobe; (3) a parietal branch supplies the inner surface of the parietal lobe; (4) an artery to the corpus callosum. The anterior communicating artery, a transverse communication between the two anterior cerebral arteries, sometimes double, lies upon the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure and usually gives off two or three slender deep branches, which assist in supplying the fore part of the caudate nucleus. The middle cerebral artery (Figs. 325, 326), the larger of the terminal divisions of the internal carotid artery, passes upwards and outwards in the fissure of Sylvius for a little distance, and then divides into its terminal branches which are superficial in their distribution. From the main trunk a number of deep branches are given off, constituting the antero-lateral group. These vessels supply the anterior part of the optic thalamus and the greater part of the caudate nucleus, with the exception of the extreme fore part; they also supply the lenticular nucleus and the external and internal capsules. They pass through the anterior perforated spot. The terminal or superficial branches are four in number; they pass upwards between the convolutions of the island of Reil: (1) the inferior frontal supplies the posterior part of the orbital surface of the frontal lobe and the adjacent part of the third frontal convolution ; (2) the ascending frontal supplies the lower and posterior part of the outer surface of the