192 THE SKELETON. the other, the posterior on the top of the tibial spine behind the external crucial ligament, and the anterior at the outside of the same. At its posterior extremity it is joined by an accessory ligament descending from the posterior crucial. It is very freely movable in a backward and forward direction on the tibia, and, on that account, is capable of being dislocated. Anteriorly, the two semilunar fibro-plates are usually united by a transverse ligament, a thin bundle of fibres extending between the foremost parts of their convex borders. The synovial membrane, when artificially distended, bulges out between the sides of the patella and the lateral ligaments, and superiorly forms a pouch extending a couple of inches upwards, covered by the crureus muscle, and kept from falling down between the patella and femur by the subcrureus muscle. Beneath the patella, and extending to each side, there is a great pad of fat, from the middle of which a thin pillar of synovial membrane, called Ugamentiim mucosiim, extends to be attached to the front of the intercondylar fossa. It is the remains of a septum formed by two synovial membranes placed back to back, which originally separated the outer from the inner tibio-femoral joint. From the sides of the base of the ligamentum mucosum, two more or less sharp folds, the alar folds or ligaments, extend in such a position as to b- . «^ under the condyles of the femur. Below and behind the ligamentum mucosum the membrane is reflected up in front of the crucial ligaments, and extends on their sides to the posterior wall of the capsule. It covers the upper and under surfaces of the semi- FiG 187 -Left knee-joint laid l^^^r platcs, and is reflected thence to the 'JZ.^^;T^'Skr?^Mlr:^^^^^ capsule before reaching the margins of the of rectus femoris;^, internal fibro- ^^^^^^i gurfaces. On the side of the external plate or disc. condyle of the femur it is continued over the popliteal groove and deep surface of the popliteus tendon; and, at the back of the inner condyle, it communicates with a bursa between the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle and the inner head of the gastrocnemius, which sometimes becomes distended with glairy substance. Movements of the knee-joint. This is a hinge joint. It also allows rotation of the leg when flexed, but not when it is fully extended. When the weight of the body falls on the extended knee, extension is maintained without muscular aid, as is shown by the patella hanging loose; but when the foot is lifted from the ground the patella is involun- tarily tightened. In the erect posture the weight of the body falls in front of the knee, and so far from muscular action being required to prevent flexion, over-extension would take place were it not guarded