OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 654 arrangement in the ox and in the horse, in which the membrane of Descemet, with tooth-like projections from the iris, is more easily seen to be the sole j anterior wall of the sinus circularis. The epithelium lining the back of \ the membrane of Descemet can be traced round on the front of the iris. | The arteries of the iris are derived from the long ciliary and the anterior ciliary arteries. The long ciliary arteries piercing the sclerotic with the posterior ciliaries, pass forwards, one on each side in the choroid, and divide in the periphery of the iris, each into an upper and a lower branch which unite to complete a ring, the circulus major. This is joined by branches from the anterior ciliary arteries, five or six vessels which pierce i the sclerotic not far from its anterior margin and end also in the supply | of the ciliary processes. From the circulus major numerous branches take a 'i convergent course in the depth of the stroma and anastomose so as to form i another ring of communication near the pupillary margin, the circulus minor. \ Fig. 489.—Schema of Vessels at Different Depths, a, Vessels of the iris; h, of ciliary processes ; c, chorio-capillary vessels ; d, vena vorticosa ; e, long ciliary artery ; /, f, anterior ciliary vessels and their communication through the sclerotic with the ciliary processes; g, the cornea; m, one of the recti muscles ; n, optic nerves and, in it, central artery of retina communicating with others ; s, episcleral anastomosis. (After Leber.) The nerves of the iris are the terminal branches of the ciliary nerves continued forwards after the giving off of the branches to the ciliary muscle and cornea. These nerves, after piercing the sclerotic, run forwards between the membrana fusca and the choroid, forming a circular series of about fifteen straight trunks which begin to break-up about a tenth of an inch from the ciliary muscle. They enter the iris at the periphery and form a copious plexus in its substance. Spaces connected with the iris. The space between the cornea and the iris is named the anterior chamber. It owes its name to its having been formerly supposed that the iris hung free, with aqueous humour not