732 THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. | Three portions of the right lobe are named as separate lobes; and two of these, namely, the quadrate and the Spigelian lobes, are definitely bounded. The quadrate lobe is in front of the portal fissure and is between the fissure of the umbilical vein and the fissure of the gall-bladder. The Spigelian lobe is behind the portal fissure, between the vena cava inferior and the fissure of the ductus venosus; it projects downwards as a three-sided pyramid, and is much more elongated in many animals, and is always distinguishable as the only lobe looking into the smaller sac of the peritoneum. The caudate lobe, the third portion of the right lobe dis-! tinguished by the name of lobe, is merely a slight eminence outside thej foramen of Winslow, and continuous with the narrow elevation separating! the portal fissure from the vena cava inferior, but it is developed as a distinct lobe in many animals. The remaining part of the right lobe has' a constant slight concavity toward the back, the renal impression, fitting over the right kidney, and another further forwards, the colic impression, lying over the hepatic flexure of the colon. The under surface of the left lobe exhibits a slight convexity corresponding with the smaller curvature of the stomach and a shallow concavity beyond over the fundus. Main ducts and gall-bladder. The right and left hepatic ducts, emerg- ing from the portal fissure, approach each other rapidly to form the hepatic duct, the right and left ducts joining in front of the right and left branches of the hepatic artery, while the portal vein bifurcates behind them, and lower down the hepatic duct lies to the right, the artery to the left, and the portal vein between and behind. The hepatic duct mm for about two inches and is met at an acute angle by the cystic duct. The duct resulting from the junction of the hepatic and cystic ducts i^ called the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus) and continue? in the same direction as the hepatic duct; it is about one sixth of an incli in diameter when distended, and is about three inches long. It passes-! • down behind the descending part of the duodenum, between it and the head of the pancreas, pierces along with the pancreatic duct obliquely through the coats of the posterior wall of the duodenum, and opens by means oi i a constricted orifice into a slight depression common to it and the pan-' creatic duct, about four inches from the pylorus. The gall-bladder is; pyriform, three or four inches long and about an inch and a quarter ini diameter at its broadest part when moderately distended. Its fundus oi broad extremity projects to a certain extent free at the notch in the over hanging margin of the liver, and it tapers backwards closely adherent tc the floor of the groove in which it lies. It is continued into the cystic duct, w^hich is about an inch and a half long, and turns downwards to join the hepatic duct. The mucous membrane of the gall-bladder has a fine reticu | lated pattern, throwing it into shallow honeycomb-like depressions visible; to the naked eye and better seen with a lens. At the neck and in the cystic duct it is thrown into irregular folds liable to obstruct the passage of a probe.