THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 442 hollow of the elbow, separated by some fatty tissue from the supinator brevis; afterwards it rests in succession upon the insertion of the pronator teres, the radial slip of the flexor sublimis, the flexor poUicis longus, the pronator quadratus, and the lower end of the radius. The supinator longus is external to it, overlapping it in the upper half of the forearm; to its inner side lie the pronator teres, and, lower down, the flexor carpi radialis; the radial nerve is in contact with it externally in the middle third of the forearm. At the wrist it first bends backwards below the styloid process, resting upon the external lateral ligament, and afterwards descends upon the back of the scaphoid and trapezium to the interval between the heads of the first and second metacarpal bones; in this part of its course it is crossed superficially, first by the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb, and afterwards by that of the second phalanx of the thumb. As it passes forwards into the hand it is placed between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. In the j/atm the radial artery turns inwards under cover of the short flexor muscle of the thumb, and is continued into the deep palmar arch. Two venae comites accompany the radial artery in its whole course. In the forearm, in addition to numerous muscular branches, the radial detaches a recurrent branch, an anterior carpal branch, and the superficial volar branch. At the wrist it gives off a posterior carpal branch, the first dorsal interosseous, the dorsalis indicis, and the dorsalis pollicis arteries. In the palm, before passing into the deep arch, it gives off the arteria princeps pollicis and the radialis indicis. (1) The recurrent branch passes upwards under cover of the supinator longus to anastomose with the anterior division of the superior profunda artery. (2) The anterior carpal artery, a very slender vessel, arising near the wrist, reaches the front of the carpus and takes part, along with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar, in forming the anterior carpal arch. The anterior carpal arch is of small size, and distributes minute branches which supply the carpal bones and anastomose with offsets from the anterior interosseous artery of the forearm and from the deep palmar arch. (3) The superficial volar artery, of very variable size, arising near the wrist, passes among the short muscles of the thumb, and, when well developed, inosculates with the termination of the superficial palmar arch. (4) The posterior carpal branch takes origin under cover of the extensor tendons of the thumb, and runs inwards upon the back of the carpus to anastomose with the posterior carpal branch of the ulnar. The posterior carpal arch, formed by the inosculation of the two posterior carpal arteries, is of small size. It gives off—{a) recurrent branches which ramify upon the carpus and anastomose with the terminal twigs of the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries of the forearm; and (b) the dorsal inter- osseous arteries of the two inner spaces.