GENERAL ANATOMY. 12 mammalian, and that it is the nucleus, not the surrounding disc, which is fugitive in mammals. The largest red corpuscles are found in the amphibia, the long diameter measuring in Proteus anguineus ^Jo^h inch, and in the frog __i_._th. In fishes and in reptiles, both of which are groups embracing forms widely different in structure, it would be difficult to lay down a rule according to which the size of the corpuscles varies. In birds, which are a compact group, the ostrich would appear to have them largest, namely, with a long diameter estimated at yJj_th inch, and the humming bird to have them smallest, with a long diameter of o-qVe"*^- Fig. 6.-BLOOD-Corpuscles mammals the largest diameter is found in OF Frog, viz four red cor- ^j^g elephant, .^r-th inch : and smallest in the pnscles in full view, one m i ' j / 4 o ^ puscie' """^^ smallest ruminant, the napu or tragulus, j^i^-s^^ inch. Other bodies besides the red and white corpuscles have been described as occurring in the blood. The invisible corpuscle of Norris is a body of the same size and shape as the red corpuscle, but without the colour. Such corpuscles Norris maintains to exist in the circulating blood. Undoubtedly, by very slight changes in the blood, some of the red cor- puscles lose their colouring matter and become difficult to see, while others remain unaffected, or become darker; and even supposing that the evidence is not sufficient to support the contention of Norris that invisible discs exist in the circulation, it is of great importance to recognize that the red corpuscles are thus dissimilar in nature, as this points to a difference, according to age, in their utility as carriers of oxygen. The Mood-plate of Bizzozero is a similar structure of smaller size, and is probably the result of divided red corpuscles losing their colouring matter. Elementary granides of Zimmerman are small particles, some of which have been set free by the breaking up of white corpuscles, and are liable to congregate as granular masses in blood outside the body, while others are doubtless particles separated from red corpuscles after the fashion above pointed out. This is probably the nature of those termed haematoblasts by Hayem, and looked on by him as origins of the red corpuscles. The colourless nuclei of red corpuscles in embryos and non-mammalian adults present a strong objection to any theory of the development of the red corpuscle which does not derive it from a nucleated cor- puscle afterwards losing its nucleus. The theory formerly almost uni- versally held, that red corpuscles are formed from certain of the white <iorpuscles, is not open to this grave objection. As shown by the researches of Neumann, Bizzozero, and Schafer, another source of red corpuscles in the adult is the red marrow of the bones. In the early embryo, red blood-corpuscles are produced by the division of nucleated corpuscles