590 CEEEBRO-SPINAL AXIS. were conveyed from the hind limbs of animals after division of the posterior columns on both sides nearer the head, and that a mesial section of the cord made opposite the origins of the nerves to the fore limbs paralysed sensation in both those limbs without affecting the hind limbs. These observations, as also more recent researches of Edinger and the disposition of the collaterals, all point to a decussation of sensory tracts in a forward direction, and not far from the entrance of the posterior nerve-roots, in the length of the cord. THE BRAIN. I. GENERAL CONSTRUCTION. The brain, or encej)halon, presents below, resting on the basilar process of the occipital bone, a short extension upwards from the spinal cord, namely, the medulla oblo7igata, .increasing in breadth, and rapidly changing both in the disposition of its parts and the mode of origin of nerve-roots. The medulla oblongata is crossed superiorly by the po^is Varolii, a body having the appearance of a great band of transverse fibres, forming a prominence, which rests on the upper part of the clivus as far as the summit of the dorsum sellae, and is gathered together at each side to enter the cere- helium. The cerebellum is a large brain-mass presenting a laminated surface of grey substance, and, together with the medulla oblongata and pons, fills the part of the cranial cavity beneath the tentorium. The whole of the rest of the brain, occupying all the cranial cavity above the tentorium, constitutes the cerebrum. The cerebrum is continuous with the parts below the ten- torium by the part traversing the constricted aperture bounded by the dorsum sellae and the free margin of the tentorium and termed the isthmus cerebri, which would be divided by a section made close above the pons and the cerebellum. The parts of the cerebrum in contact with almost the whole wall of the cavity above the tentorium are the right and left cerebral hemispheres, much the largest masses of the brain, and presenting convoluted surfaces of grey substance. The body of the sphenoid, however, from the summit of the dorsum sellae forward to the united orbital wings, is not invaded by the hemispheres, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid has the olfactory lobes immediately overlying it. Emerging from the pons Varolii are two diverging pillars of white substance, the crura cerebri, speedily overlapped by the hemispheres; and, when followed round the side, the crura cerebri are seen to be in continuity dorsally with structures emerging from the cerebellum, invested Fig. 428.—Brain of Human Embryo of 12 Weeks, with the pia mater removed, and the hemisphere spread out. a, Medulla oblongata ; b, fourth ventricle ; c, cere- bellum ; d, flocculus ; e, corpora quadrigemina; /, optic thalamis ; g, hemisjjhere-vesicle laid open ; A, corpus striatum within it. (After Tiede- mann.)