11 THE BLOOD. outline of the vessel, and then going through a series of hour-glass shapes, in which the part external to the vessel becomes larger and the part within becomes smaller, until the whole corpuscle has passed through. This process is called diapedesis. It was first discovered by Augustus Waller, but remained unverified for a number of years, and was sub- sequently rediscovered by Cohn- heim, who pointed out its great pathological importance. The white corpuscles originate in the lym- phatic glands, in the spleen, in retiform or lymphoid tissue distri- buted through the body, and in the marrow of bones. They have their origin in the solid tissues, and many of them, as we have seen, return to these. Several varieties or conditions of white corpuscles have been ob- , served, and appear to indicate Fig. 5.—Leucocytes escaping from a capillary blood- , vessel in mesentery of rabbit. Elastic and white differences of source, function, age, fibres of connective tissue, as well as the structure . . . T • of vessel, are also seen. or destination, bhernngton distin- guishes in the dog (1) the fineli/ granidar with the nucleus obscured and variable, (2) the coarsehj granular of large size, liable, like the first, to amoeboid changes of shape, and with granules well-defined, stained yellow by osniic acid vapour, (3) the small hyaline with spherical nucleus and sm.all amount of clear surrounding protoplasm retaining the spheroidal shape, and (4) the large hyaline, with less regular nucleus and larger amount of rather clear protoplasm. ^ The corpuscles of non-mammalian vertebrates. There is a broad dis- tinction between the blood of mammals and that of all other vertebrates, for whereas the red corpuscles are always circular in mammals (save only in the camelidae which have them oval), and are in the normal adult condition devoid of nucleus, they are, in other vertebrates, always oval and always provided with a single distinct oval nucleus occupying the centre. The nucleus is devoid of colouring matter, and the coloured substance of the disc in which it lies is of the same ductile character as the mammalian disc. When, in addition, it is considered that mammalian red corpuscles are, in the young embryo, nucleated, and that an occasional nucleated corpuscle may be found even in adult mam.nials, it seems impossible to doubt that the mammalian red corpuscle is homologous with the non- ^ Consult for details and bibliography Sherrington, Royal Society Proceedings^ February, 1894.