68 GENEEAL ANATOMY. network of spaces of similar dimensions to themselves, while at the periphery it forms rounded nodules or hdhs, each connected by a neck with the cylinders. The peripheral part containing the bulbs is some- times termed the cortex, and the deep part the medulla. Around the bulbs the reticulum is distinct, and though considerably supported by homo- geneous substance investing the branching corpuscles, yet exhibits manifest open passages or lymph-paths; and outside the reticulum the main trabeculae form alveoli corresponding with the bulbs. In the medulla neither the trabeculae, reticulum nor lymph-paths are so distinct; but the spaces between the cylinders are crowded with Ij^mph-corpuscles, the protoplasm of which is more abundant than in those of the cylinders. Both afferent and efferent lymphatics, when followed into the gland, are seen to lose their proper walls and to be continuous with the unwalled lymph-paths. Closed follicles. It has been customary to class along with the lymphatic glands certain minute nodular collections of small unwalled corpuscles similar to those of the lymphatic glands, and likewise situated in meshes of retiform tissue, namely, the closed follicles of the digestive tract. These are rounded bodies like small grains, with definite capsules. They are situated in the mucous membrane, and are provided with a special distribution of capillary blood-vessels within them, which are directed toward the centre and form loops emerging at some distance from their entrance. They have an abundance of lymphatics round them; but there is no evidence that their corpuscles migrate into either the lym- phatics or bloodvessels. They have latterly been described by some as lymphatic nodules. Mere nodules of unwalled corpuscles do exist, as, for example, in the mucous membrane of the stomach and bladder, but differ from closed follicles in having neither special bloodvessels nor distinct boundaries. The vague use of the word ' lymphatic' is, however, to be deprecated. From both lymphatic glands and from diffuse retiform tissue there can be no doubt that corpuscles travel into lymphatic vessels; but the researches of Stohr (1884 and 1891) have shown that a charac- teristic feature of the closed follicles of the tonsils and the back of the. tongue is the passage of leucocytes from them through the epithelium of the mucous membrane. Thus the evidence is in favour of closed follicles being organs of elimination, and a rational explanation is suggested of their importance in disease. SACCULAR MEMBRANES. Considering the direct communication of serous membranes with lym- phatics by stomata, as above described, and the formation, by mere breach of continuity of connective tissue, of other sacs comparable to the interstices with which the origins of lymphatics are connected, the characters which such spaces present may be here considered.