630 THE BRAIN. dense stratum on the deep surface of the cortical substance. They belong to the order of association fibres, a name used to include all bundles serving to bring into communication different parts of the hemispheres. " Fibres come from all regions of the cortex, converging as they traverse the corpora striata to penetrate the crura cerebri. In small mammals these fibres, on arriving at the level of the corpus striatum, send out to that body a large collateral, and then descend in little bundles separated by septa of grey substance, which they provide with very fine collaterals" (Cajal). In the grey matter bounding the sulcus hippocampi, namely, the gyrus dentatus and grey matter of the hippocampus major, there are naturally special peculiarities, as these are the parts bounding the transverse fissure, a communication with the interior caused by total suppression of the nervous wall of the hemisphere-vesicle. The pyramidal corpuscles are here gathered together into one stratum, superficial to which their ascending poles form a stratum radiatuni, succeeded by another, the stratum laciniosum, distinguished by their interlacing crowds of branches; and over this the densely nucleated zone of the molecular layer is greatly developed, getting the name of stratum granulosum. VII. THE OLFACTORY LOBES. The olfactory lobes, sometimes regarded as portions of the hemispheres (p. 621, footnote), are but feebly developed in the human subject in com- parison with their size in vertebrata generally and in most mammals, although it is true that in cetacea they are absent, while in the seal and in monkeys they are of smaller proportions than in man. They originate as hollow structures coming off, in elasmobranch fishes, from the sides of the hemispheres, but in other vertebrata rather from their fore and under surfaces. In most mammals they continue hollow, and in some the communication with the ventricle persists. It may further be stated here from personal observation, as indicating the place of primary union with the hemisphere, though not generally noticed, that in the human foetus so late as in the sixth month, the olfactory bulb has its sole base in front of the island of Eeil, and at an earlier period is completely separated from the anterior perforated spot by a very deep sulcus filled with pia mater. The olfactory lobe lies against the straight sulcus of the orbital surface of the hemispheres, and consists of the hnlh and the peduncle or tract, with its roots. The olfactory bulb is of oval form and grey colour; it rests on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, into whose surface it fits, and the minute and easily torn bundles of the olfactory nerve enter its under surface. It is continued behind into a slender and white stalk, the peduncle or tract; and tract and bulb together form a structure about IJ inches long, surrounded with pia mater. The attachment of the peduncle is at the hinder end of the sulcus olfactorius, and from it two obvious white