THE NERVES. 576 fourth, the sixth, and, according to most, the twelfth trunk seem to be formed purely of fibres belonging to the ventral non-gangliated group. The motor of the fifth and the seventh seem to be formed of fibres belonging entirely to the ventral gangliated group. The sensory of the fifth and the eighth nerve would be formed purely of fibres belonging to the dorsal gangliated group. Of mixed trunks the third nerve seems to be formed of fibres belonging to the ventral non-gangliated and the ventral gangliated efferent groups; while the ninth and tenth would be made up of fibres belonging to the dorsal afferent and the ventral efferent gangliated groups. THE CEREBRO SPINAL AXIS AND ITS MEMBRANES. Cerebro-spinal axis is the name given to the whole of the great continuous centre of the cerebro-spinal nervous system. Though obviously consisting of two parts, the brain and the spinal cord, and though the cord is com- paratively simple in structure and similar in appearance in different parts of its length, while the brain is so complex and so dissimilar in its successive parts as to be even now incapable of being fully comj^ared with the cord in its details, yet the cerebro-spinal axis is single in its origin, and indivisible in the adult condition save by arbitrary section. It is a symmetrical organ, and the nerves arise from it in pairs, both the cerebral nerves, as those are called which come from the brain, and the spinal nerves, or those belonging to the cord. The brain or encephalon occupies the cranial cavity, and fills it, as it does also in all birds and mammals; but the spinal cord is far from filling up either the length or the width of the spinal canal in which it lies, and floats in a watery cerebro-spinal fluid. Both brain and spinal cord are surrounded by three coverings called meninges, namely, the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the yia mater. The dura mater is a tough fibrous membrane, the deep surface of which is smooth and free.^ coated with fine endothelium, and lies in contact, for Fig. 410.—Cerebro-Spinal Axis. ^ This description is given in deference to the prevalent fashion. Nevertheless it is the case that, at least in the foetus, there is a layer which is easily filled in patches with injection, exhibiting a close network of vessels, with a delicate trans- parent layer over them, and uninjected fibrous tissue beneath. This I have seen