240 THE SKELETON. leading down into the nasal duct. The foramina in connection with the floor are two, the nasal duct and the commencement of the infra-orbital canal. The three fossae basis crardi correspond ^vith the three main levels of the floor of the interior of the cranium. The anterior is formed by the orbital plates of the frontal, the ethmoid between them, and the small wings of the sphenoid : and the posterior border of those wings separates it from the middle fossa. The middle fossa has a narrow mesial part formed hj the pituitary fossa, and at each side it widens out and is floored by the great wings of the sphenoid and the upper surface of the petrous part of the temporal. The superior margin of the petrous separates the middle from the posterior fossa, which is walled by the inferior occipital depress- ionS; the clivus, and the petrous and mastoid. THE SHAPE OF THE SKULL. The characters of the human skull are divisible into those which dis- tinguish it from the skulls of aj^es, and those which vary according to age, sex, nationality and idiosyncrasy. Distinctive characters. The most obvious is the huge development of the arch of the skull as compared with the base : the arch being expanded and the base mesially shortened. If the distance of the root of the nose or mesial end of the fronto-nasal suture from the back of the foramen magnum be taken to express the length of the base, and the distance between the same points as measured with a tape carried over the roof be called the arch, then the proportion borne by the arch to the base counted as unity varies for the most part in the human skull from 2-45 to 3, and is most frequently about 270 : the general length of the adult male base-line being over five inches. The human cranium diff'ers also greatly from that of all other animals in having the middle line of the floor of the anterior fossa basis cranii parallel to the plane of the foramen magnum, so that, regarded as part of the cerebro-spinal cylinder, it may be considered as completing in the adult state a semicircular curve. The face is elongated downwards from the cranium, so as to give height to the nasal fossae, affording space for the reverberation of the voice, which is further increased by the maxillary, frontal and sphenoidal sinuses, which are peculiar to man. In the lower animals, on the con- trary, the nares are low and the jaws and palate elongated forwards in connection with the greater development of the teeth. But a just contrast of the size and form of the jaws of apes as compared with those of man can only be obtained when adult specimens are compared, as the face is in all animals later of development than the cranium. This obvious rule is too frequently set at nought, ^^ith the result of misleading the credulous who are ^villing to be deceived. Variations. At different ages the form of the skull differs characteris-