EMBRYOLOGY. 97 fishes and amphibia is formed by longitudinal division of the Wolffian duct backwards from a point as far forward as the front of the \Yolffian body ; but in reptiles, birds, and mammals it makes its first appear- ance at a later date on the surface of the Wolffian body, as an open c>T00Ye whose edges coming together convert it into a tube. Even in birds and mammals, however, it is in part of its course very intimately connected with the AVolffian duct. Miiller's duct becomes in the female the oviduct, but in the male has a mere temporary development, while the epididymis and vas deferens of the male are formed from the Wolffian duct. The epithelial boundary of the body-cavity does not, over the surface of the Wolffian body, become flattened as it does elsewhere, but Fourth veutricle Auditory vesicle External ear Mandibular arch MaxiUary lobe Heart Upper limb Mesoblastic somites Cerebellum / Mesen- \ cephalon Yelk sac ( Thalamen- / 1 cephalon — Pineal body - - Hemisphere _ Olfactory pit AUantois Lower limb Fig. 103.—Human Embryo, ~ (adapted mostly from Fraser, partly from Allen Thomson). is columnar or cubical, and is termed the germinal epitiieUum. It is from the part of the germinal epithelium on the outer border of the Wolffian body that Miiller's duct is developed, while from the part on the inner border are developed the essential elements of the testicle in the male, and of the ovary in the female. (See Development of Bejrroductive Organs.) The head and neck. The first cerebral vesicle is from its earliest development turned down into the fossa which separates it from the yelk; and as growth proceeds, the second vesicle lies over the extremity of the fore-gut, while the first vesicle is turned round so as to point back- wards beneath it. The heart, when it appears, likewise forms a prominence on the ventral aspect of the fore-gut; and between this and the first cerebral vesicle is left a depression called the stomodaeum, where epiblast and hypoblast are in contact, and afterwards rupture to form the primitive mouth. In front of the place of rupture {i.e. proserial to it) the stomodaeal epiblast retains contact with the base of the brain, close behind the optic commissure, and is oraduallv shut oft' from the surface : while another