625 THE CEREBEAL HEMISPHERES. parietal and the orbital, the frontal operculum; the frontal being the ;pars triangularis of the third frontal convolution, called le cap by Broca. Superficial aspect. The fissure of Eolamlo {sulcus centralis) begins at the mesial border of the hemisphere a little behind the mid point of its upward arch, and runs downwards and forwards towards the Sylvian fissure. Its upper end shows more frequently than not on the mesial surface, to at least a slight extent and with a backward inclination. Its lower end usually falls short of the fissure of Sylvius, but points to the middle of the island of Reil. In its course, which is never direct, a backward iipper genu and a forward loicer genu have received attention. The convolutions bounding the Rolandic fissure are best named anterioi- and posterior Bolandic gyri (Pansch), but are also known as ascending fronted and parietal, and anterior and posterior ascending or central. In front of the anterior Rolandic gyrus, the precentral sulcus (transverse frontal fissure so Fig. 454. —Outer Side of Right Hemisphere. Op. 1, 2, 8, 4 are the four opercula of the island of Reil, niimbered as they are numbered in the text. called) is placed, distinct below from the anterior ascending Sylvian limb, and falling short of the mesial border above. In front of this, a superior and an inferior frontal sulcus separate the superior, middle and inferior frontal gijri. The superior frontal is more or less continued into the anterior Rolandic gyrus, and the inferior frontal ends posteriorly in a dilated pars triangularis, le cap of Broca, already alluded to in connection with the opercula, remarkable as being, especially on the left side, the seat of lesion in aphasia. The three frontal convolutions constitute the frontal lobe of Gratiolet; but more usually the term frontal lobe is used to designate the whole surface in front of the Rolandic fissure, as recommended by Turner; and though this is topographically less appropriate, it is to be remembered that all divisions of the mantle into lobes are quite artificial and open to objection. Behind the posterior Rolandic gyrus the pjostcentral sulcus is situated, which, like the precentral, falls short both of the mesial edge and of the Sylvian fissure; but toward the upper end it has its main continuation