714 THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. were described in an exaggerated manner, which has led to their being latterly overlooked almost altogether. The mucous membrane is bounded on its deep side by a thin but firm layer of decussating muscular fibres, muscularis mucosae. In the rest of its | depth it consists principally of secreting tubes,! the gastric follicles. These, save in the neigh- j bourhood of the pylorus and close to the i oesophagus, are simple tubules embedded in j loose retiform tissue, their somewhat dilated' extremities reaching down to the muscularis! mucosae, and their necks bound more firmly i together. The whole surface of the mucous membrane, and also the necks of the follicles, are lined with columnar epithelium, which takes the place of the stratified squamous when the oesophagus has opened into thei stomach. But, beyond their necks, the simple! tubular gastric follicles have their secreting cells polyhedral and of very various size, the larger cells more distinctly granular and the smaller interspersed between them in a rather irregular fashion, by no means covering them nor arranged in very definite order. In the dog, the cat, and other animals, the two kinds of corpuscles found in the gastrici follicles are more definitely distinguished.ii One set, the principal or, more properly, the- central cells, is continuous with the columnar epithelium of the necks of the follicles, and! consists of small, clear, nearly cubical cor- puscles. The other, the parietal or underlying klJk^^.^ cells, are large, oval and granular, much less liable to alteration after death, and, in some conditions of the tubules, bulge out hemi- spherically from their sides; they were at one: time n^m^di peptic from an erroneous idea that they were the sole secretors of pepsin, whilt the small set secreted mucus. In the dog,j towards the pylorus, the glands are morel branched, and are destitute of the larger oi: marginal cells; and numerous experiments have been made to decide the functions of the two orders of cells by working with portions of mucous membrane from the cardiac and pyloric regions. In the human subject, within the pyloric antrum, the follicles become ^ d Fig. 545.—Section of Mucous Mem- brane OF Human Stomach at its thickest part, a, Necks of follicles lined with columnar epithelium; h, dilated ends of follicles ; c, retiform tissue ; d, muscularis mucosae.