THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 406 this cusp forms a portion of the aortic vestibule, and its base separates the aortic and auriculo-ventricular orifices from one another. The chordae tendineae are numerous and strong, and pass, like those of the right side, to the angles between the valves, and are attached to the free margins and ventricular surfaces. Occasionally small subsidiary cusps are found in the angles between the larger ones. The aortic orifice, circular in outline, is some- what smaller than that of the pulmonary artery; the segments of its valve are much stronger than those of the right side. The sinuses of Valsalva are relatively to one another, right, left, and posterior in position; from the right and left the corresponding coronary arteries of the heart spring. Position of the heart with reference to the chest wall. The base of the heart lies opposite the bodies of the sixth, seventh, and eighth dorsal vertebrae. The apex approaches the surface at a spot, in the fifth left inter- FiG. 312.—The Heart, from behind and the left side after removal of the outer wall of the left ventricle. costal space, three and a half inches from the middle line, and one and a half inches below the nipple. The area occupied by the heart may be marked out on the surface by three lines : (1) on the right side, a curved line with the convexity to the right, and reaching at the farthest about an inch and a half from the middle line, drawn from the sternal end of the third right costal cartilage to that of the seventh right costal cartilage; (2) a line drawn across, from the sternal end of the seventh right costal cartilage to the apex; (3) a slightly curved line, from the apex to the left edge of the sternum between the second and third costal cartilages. The whole of that part of the heart which lies to the right of the middle line is overlapped by pleura ; on the left side, while a large portion of the heart is overlapped, a small area of pericardium is left uncovered by the pleura. This area may be marked out on the