536 THE NEEVES. The anterior tibial nerve (Fig. 399) passes forwards and downwards from the place of division of the external popliteal, and traverses the •origin of the extensor digitorum longus muscle to gain the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. Continuing its course it descends at first by the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, and afterwards in front of it, and in company with the vessel reaches the dorsum of the foot, passing behind the anterior annular ligament; a little below the ligament it divides into external and internal branches. On its way it detaches muscular offsets to the tibialis anticus, extensor digitorum longus, extensor hallucis longus, and peroneus tertius, and gives one or two articular filaments to the ankle-joint. The external branch bends outwards over the tarsus on the deep surface of the extensor digitorum brevis; it supplies the short extensor muscle, and, after becoming swollen like the posterior interosseous nerve of the upper limb, terminates in filaments which are distributed to the articula- tions of the foot. The internal branch, continuing the course of the parent trunk, passes onwards under cover of the innermost division of the short extensor muscle, and along the first interosseous space, at the extremity of which, after receiving a communicating branch from the inner division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, it divides into the dorsal branches for the contiguous sides of the first and second toes. THE FOURTH SACRAL NERVE. A small portion of the anterior division of this nerve enters, as already described, into the formation of the sacral plexus. Another small portion passes downwards to join the coccygeal plexus. The remainder of the nerve breaks up into visceral, muscular, and cutaneous branches. The visceral branches are small, and pass to the pelvic plexus of the sym- pathetic; they are associated with a few similar branches from the second and third sacral nerves. The muscular branch passes between the coccygeus and levator ani, detaching twigs to both, and reaches the external sphincter of the anus, in the supply of which it assists. The perforating or cutaneous branch pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament, turns round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and supplies the integument at the margin of the coccyx. The coccygeal plexus (Fig. 393) is formed of two small loops, the anterior division of the fifth sacral nerve being joined from above by the descending branch from the fourth, and from below by the anterior division of the coccygeal nerve. The fifth sacral and the coccygeal before becoming connected with one another traverse the substance of the sacro- sciatic ligaments, and pierce the coccygeus muscle. From the plexus some minute visceral branches are detached; a slender muscular twig enters the coccygeus. A cutaneous branch pierces the coccygeus and ramifies in the skin over the back of the coccyx.