228 THE SKELETON. The zygomatic surface, behind the malar process, is continued round to form the tuberosity which looks backwards, forming the anterior wall of the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary fossae, and is pierced by some minute apertures of posterior dented canals for nerves to the molar teeth. Superiorly this surface is separated from the orbital by a free margin, which forms the anterior border of the spheno-maxillary fissure, and is interrupted by the infra-orbital groove. The orbital surface forms the whole floor of the orbit with the excep- tion of a minute angle behind, which is completed by the palatal. The infra-orbital groove extends forwards in it, and its edges meet to form the infra-orbital canal, which terminates at the infra-orbital foramen. It gives- off minute middle and anterior dental canals, conveying the nerves to the bicuspid and incisor teeth. The orbital floor is triangular, its anterior and posterior free margins being separated by the articular surface of the malar process; its inner margin, followed from behind forwards, articulates with the orbital process of the palate bone, the os planum of the ethmoid, and the lachrymal. Opposite the fore part of the latter it aids in bounding the entrance into the nascd duct, and in front is continued up into the frontal process, which forms the fore part of the inner wall of the orbit, and is grooved posteriorly to complete with the lachrymal bone the groove for the lacJmjmal sac. The nasal surface is surmounted in front by the inner aspect of the frontal process, which articulates behind with the lachrymal bone, and completes with it some of the anterior ethmoidal cells. Lower down there is a projecting line directed backwards and upwards, the crest foi' the inferior turbinated bone; and behind this the lachrymal groove descends from the floor of the orbit and posterior wall of the nasal process, forming the greater part of the wall of the nasal duct, which is completed by the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones. Behind this groove is a large opening leading into a cavity extending underneath the orbit forward to the facial wall, and back to the tuberosity, and in old subjects projecting even into the malar process. This is named the maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore. The entrance into the antrum is greatly diminished by other bones, the inferior turbinated articulating edge to edge with the lower margin of the opening, and being met by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, while the palate bone overlaps from behind. Only the gap left in front of the uncinate process is constant, and in the recent state forms the communication between the antrum and the middle meatus of the nose. Above the opening of the antrum, close to the orbital margin, shallow depressions complete some of the middle ethmoidal cells; and the surface behind it, and as far forwards below as the posterior edge of the palate plate, is rough for articulation with the palate bone. The roughness is interrupted by a groove passing from inside the tuberositj^ downwards and forwards, to complete with the palate bone the posterior palatine caned, and transmit the posterior palatine vessels and nerve, which may also groove the palate as they pass forwards.