548 THE NEEVES. filaments to the gums, supply the teeth of the lower jaw. The wajIo- hyoid nerve is given off by the main trunk before it enters the inferior dental canal; it runs forwards on the under surface of the mylo-hyoid, supplying twigs to it, and terminates in the anterior belly of the digastric. The mental branch, of considerable size, leaves the main trunk as it is passing forwards in the canal; it escapes by the mental foramen, and breaks up into branches which supply the integument of the chin and the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip, and form connections with branches of the facial nerve. The mental branch is larger than the terminal part of the main trunk, which latter sometimes receives the name of incisor branch. The lingual or gustatory nerve (Figs. 411, 413) descends in front of the inferior dental nerve, to which a bundle of its fibres may for a short distance adhere. On the deep surface of the external pterygoid muscle it is, near its origin, joined from behind by the chorda tympani nerve from the facial. On emerging from the cover of the external pterygoid it passes between the internal pterygoid and the ramus, and, crossing the anterior border of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, reaches the floor of the mouth immediately below the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. Continuing its course, it runs forwards on the hyo- glossus, forming a bend with the convexity downwards, passes under cover of the mylo hyoid muscle, and, crossing Wharton's duct, gains the margin of the under surface of the tongue, along which it is continued to the tip. Near the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid it detaches one or two branches to the submaxillary ganglion, and gives off the snUingual branch which supplies the sublingual gland and furnishes filaments to the gums and to the floor of the mouth. The branches to the ganglion may easily be dissected back to the chorda tympani. A little further forwards the lingual receives a branch from the ganglion and two or three connecting filaments from, the hypoglossal nerve. Its terminal branches are distributed to the gums, to the floor of the mouth, and to the surface of the tongue in the region in front of the circumvallate papillae. The lingual is the nerve of tactile sensibility and of taste of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue; the fibres which subserve the sense of taste are supposed by some to come through the chorda tympani, and to be ultimately derived not from the facial but from the glosso-pharyngeal through its connecting branches with the seventh nerve. The submaxillary ganglion (Fig. 413) is about an eighth of an inch in length. It rests upon the hyo-glossus muscle, immediately below the lingual nerve, near the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It receives from the lingual nerve one or two roots, and it also receives a sympathetic root from the plexus on the facial artery. It detaches a number of branches to the submaxillary gland and to Wharton's duct, and one which,^ joining the trunk of the lingual, passes to the tongue. The otic ganglion (Fig. 410) measures about a fifth of an inch from