647 THE EYEBALL. coat or retina; while the cavity of the globe is filled with transparent media, the more consistent of them, viz., the crystalline lens and the vitreous humour, occupying the greater part, but leaving in front a space called the anterior chamber, containing a watery fluid, the aqueous humour. The sclerotic is a dense and tough white fibrous coat forming the outer wall of the eyeball in its whole extent, except for an area in front, half an inch in diameter, where it is replaced by the cornea. Its fibres are closely matted, neither confined to one direction nor one plane; and among the white fibrous bundles yellow-elastic fibres are scattered. It is incap- able of stretching by sudden distension, but yields perceptibly to continued pathological pressure from within. It is thickest behind where it is about -2Vth inch thick, and diminishes gradually to half this thickness about a tenth of an inch from the corneal margin, becoming perceptibly thicker close to the cornea. Posteriorly it is pierced by the optic nerve, the bundles of which enter separately, so as to give to a section across them a sieve-like appearance named lamina cribrosa; and the sheaths of the bundles join the sclerotic texture in such a way that the tract of the nerve diminishes in its passage, through the nerve-fibres being collected to a point which is situated one-tenth of an inch internal to the centre of the back of the sclerotic, and slightly below it. In the centre of the optic nerve the central artery of the retina passes in, and the numerous posterior ciliary arteries enter round about the nerve, with two long ciliary arteries—one on each side. The ciliary nerves, about eighteen in number, pierce the sclerotic in a wider circle, and mark its interior surface with grooves for some distance forwards. Adherent to the deep suface of the sclerotic there is a layer of pigmented connective tissue, membrana fusca, consisting mainly of flat, pigmented lobate and branched corpuscles with clear nuclei uncovered with pigment. It forms in man a distinct mem- brane, separated from the choroid coat by one or more lymph-spaces with endothelial lining, which communicate with the interior of the capsule of Tenon by the apertures of emergence of the venae vorticosae. It is also distinct from the sclerotic, and binds down to the sclerotic the ciliary nerves as they course forwards to divide behind the ciliary muscle into branches to supplj" that muscle and the iris and cornea. Neither ox nor sheep have any separate membrana fusca. In them the sclerotic and choroid are united by densely pigmented connective tissue, which cannot be separated from either. The cornea. The transparent fore part of the outer coat is slightly thicker at the periphery than in the rest of its extent; and its curvature, which normally is the same in the transverse and vertical directions, is a little more prominent than that of the sclerotic. The plane of continuity with the sclerotic passes obliquely through the thickness of the coat, parallel to the axis of the eye. The proper corneal substance is a modification of white fibrous tissue, arranged in laminae about sixty in number, closely united in the natural