626 THE BRAIN. turned backwards, and thus presents an ascending and a horizontal part. | Above the horizontal part the superior parietal gijrus is placed, extending j back to where the parieto-occipital, a sulcus of the mesial surface, cuts the j superior edge of the hemisphere opposite the lambda, while two gyri lie [ below it—one in front of the other—the supra-marginal (or, better, pre- : angular) and the angular. The convolutions further back constitute the : occipital lobe, and are called superior, middle and inferior occipital gyri, and I are separated by superior and inferior occipital sidci; while, in like manner, the surface below the posterior limb of the Sylvian fissure is called temporal lobe, and is divided by a superior and an inferior temporal sulcus into superior, middle and inferior temporal gyri. \ The mesial and inferior surfaces. The earliest of the mere sulci of the i mantle to appear is the calloso-marginal sulcus which, beginning below and in j front of the rostrum of the corpus callosum, turns round that body and divides the mesial surface into a marginal and a callosal part. When it reaches opposite the splenium, it turns upwards and ends by cutting the superior margin just behind the fissure of Rolando. Further back, opposite the tip of the occipital bone, another, the parieto-occipitcd sulcus, begins by deeply cutting the superior margin, and is directed downwards and forwards to meet a second, the calcarine sulcus, named from corresponding in position with the hippocampus minor, which is its obverse; and from the point of meeting of these two a third, the anterior calcarine sidcus, sweeps forwards and downwards beneath the splenium. On the tentorial and sphenoidal parts of the under surface there runs forwards, parallel to the inferior temporal and occipital sulci, a line of occipito-temporal sulci; and between these and the anterior calcarine sidcus there may be another line, the collateral sulcus. The district between the calloso-marginal sulcus and the margin of the great longitudinal sulcus is termed the marginal convolution, and has a tendency to be more or less doubled by a longitudinal sulcus within it, a doubling which is alleged to be absent when the first frontal convolution is doubled, and present when the first frontal is single (Manouvrier). The wedge between the calcarine and parieto-occipital sulci is called the cuneus, the space in front of it, extending from margin to splenium, and forwards to the turning up of the calloso-marginal fissure, is the praecuneus or quadrate lobide, and the portion of the marginal convolution immediately in front of this has been called the paracentral lobule. The convolution traceable round the corpus callosum from front to back of the anterior perforated spot is the long known gyrus fornicatus or gyrus cinguli (limbic lobe of Broca). The name callosal gyrus is best confined to the part over and in front of the corpus callosum, and to this part the term gyrus fornicatus also is by some recent authors restricted, while the posterior part turning round the crus cerebri is the gyrus hippocampi, slightly dilated at its extremity in man, but much more so in animals with well developed smell, to form the bulbus hippocampi. The dilatation presents an inward fold, the uncus-, also a thickening of the cortex, sometimes called nucleus amygdcdae. The