398 THE MUSCLES. subdivided, and in the planes of division the main branches of the nerves run. The dorsal group of muscles is supplied by the posterior primary divisions of the nerves; the fibres which compose it are chiefly longitudinal in direction and many of the more deeply placed are confined to one segment. It is divided by a longitudinal partition into an outer and an inner portion ; to the outer portion belong the splenius and erector spinae muscles; to the inner portion, on the other hand, the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinae, the median lumbar intertransverse, the interspinales, and the posterior short cranio-vertebral muscles. The ventro-lateral group is supplied by the anterior primary divisions of the nerves; it is more complicated than the dorsal group and presents a greater modification from the original segmental type ; many of its fibres have an oblique or transverse direction. It is subdivided into two layers between which the nerves course in the body wall, and the more superficial -of the two is again subdivided into diff'erent strata. The deeper of the two main layers forms three sets of muscles which may, from their relative positions, be termed (a) hyposkeletal, (b) lateral, and (c) ventral. The hyposkeletal muscles are regarded by some observers as arising independ- ently of the muscle plates from the general mesoblast, but it is probable that they are formed, as indicated above, from the deeper layer of the lateral musculature; they lie upon the under or, from the point of view of human anatomy, anterior surface of the vertebral column, and are represented in man by the rectus capitis anticus major, the longus colli, and probably by the vertebral portion of the diaphragm. The lateral muscles of the deeper layer are the transversalis abdominis, and probably also the coccygeus, levator ani, deep transversus perinei, internal inter- costals, scalenus anticus, and anterior cervical intertransverse muscles. The ventral muscles are represented by the rectus abdominis, triangularis sterni, omo-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and sterno-hyoid muscles. The more superficial layer of the lateral group is represented in the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis by the external intercostals, the levatores costarum, the internal and external oblique muscles of the abdomen, the quadratus lumborum, the lateral lumbar intertransverse, and the superficial perinaeal muscles, and in the neck by the posterior and middle scaleni, and by the posterior intertransverse muscles. As more superficial strata belonging to this layer there may be reckoned the three serrati muscles, the rhomboidei, the latissimus dorsi, the levator anguli scapulae, the pectoralis major and minor, and probably portions at least of the sterno- mastoid and trapezius. The muscles of the head. In the region of the head the mesoblast extends forwards on each side as a lateral plate; mesoblastic somites are not formed, but the formation of the successive branchial arches affords evidence of a segmentation. In the lower forms, for instance in elasmo- branch fishes, each lateral plate of head mesoblast is cleft into a somatic