588 CEEEBEO-SPINAL AXIS. the anterior cornu of the same side, and devoid of collaterals. It is open to question if any can be traced to the opposite side, or if the fibres of the white commissure are not rather derived from special corpuscles in the anterior cornu, and continued into the anterolateral cord of the other side. Such commissural fibres have been seen, after crossing, to divide into an ascending and a descending fibre. The posterior nerve-roots contain some centrifugal fibres from the anterior cornu (Lenhossek and Cajal), but consist principally of centri- petal fibres from the spinal ganglion. The nerve-corpuscles of these f 0 h i Fig. 426.—Diagram of Relations of Different Elements, a, Collaterals from column of Goll, forming larger part of posterior commissure; b, collaterals from column of Goll to posterior cornu ; c, collaterals, some of which reach forward to the anterior cornu ; d, posterior nerve-root and its collaterals ; e, collaterals from antero-lateral column to anterior cornu; /, g, collaterals crossing in anterior commissure; h, axis-cylinder arising from corpuscle in anterior cornu, and crossing to anterior column of opposite side by anterior commissure at i; j, motor nerve-root arising from motor corpuscle k ; I, bifurcating axis-cylinder of anterior column arising from corpuscle of same side ; m, another arising from opposite side ; n, corpuscle with axis-cylinder giving off collateral in the grey substance ; o, axis-cylinder from column of Clarke ; 2^: axis-cylinder from s; q, transverse section of axis-cylinder ; r, bifurcation of posterior nerve-root; s, marginal corpuscle of substance of Rolando ; t, small corpuscle of the same ; u, corpuscle of Clarke's column. (Cajal.) ganglia are unipolar in the adult condition (p. 51). but the one pole divides into a centrifugal and a centripetal branch ; and within the cord the centripetal branch is found to bifurcate into an ascending and a descending fibre, both ending by arborization in the posterior cornu. As the fibres enter the cord they are distinguishable, according to Cajal, into an outer and an inner fasciculus, the outer consisting of fine fibres bifurcating in the marginal zone of Lissauer, and ending wholly in the posterior cornu, the internal consisting of larger fibres which bifurcate in the columns of Goll and Burdach. Sections, in living animals, of posterior roots before entering the cord show that the continuations upwards of their fibres, after ascending a