713 THE STOMACH. set of muscular fibres is the least perfect layer, and, like the circular fibres, it is continuous with the circular layer of the oesophagus. Its fibres are oblique, and form arches to the left of the oesophagus, which spread obliquely downwards and to the right on the front and back, the uppermost fibres being the strongest and running nearly parallel to the smaller curva- ture. They have been described as a cravate de Suisse, and leave uncovered between the cardiac and pyloric orifices a tract which by their contraction might be separated by a constriction from the rest of the cavity and serve to conduct fluids directl}^ to the intestine (Larger). The submucous coat consists of loose areolar tissue. In it the arteries for the mucous membrane break up into small branches, and the emerging veins are gathered into larger vessels, and it allows the mucous membrane to be thrown into folds w^hen the muscular coat is contracted. Fig. 543.—Gastric Mucous Membrane, hardened in chromic acid, showing the mam- illated condition, and over the mamillae the de- pressions into which the follicles open. (Liischka.) Fig. 544.—Opaque Injection of Mucous Mem- brane OF Stomach, showing, besides the bloodvessels, the shallow depressions into which the gastric follicles open. (Luschka.) The mucous membrane is smooth, soft, lustreless, spongy and thick com- pared with that of the intestine, and without thread-like or villous projections on its surface. It differs both in thickness and in superficial appearance in diff'erent conditions of engorgement. The thickness may reach to as much as a twelfth of an inch in the fundus, but probably is never more than half so great near the pylorus, and it is still less in the great cul- de-sac. The largest inequalities of surface are the rugae, a set of irregular temporary elevations caused by folding of the whole thickness of the mucous membrane in consequence of contraction of the muscular coat; the more prominent rugae follow a longitudinal direction. The surface in the least swollen condition of the mucous membrane is uniform, but in other instances or other parts it is mamillated, exhibiting minute curving elevations separated by shallow linear depressions, which, when the swelling is still greater, are converted into larger dimples separated by prominent ridges. A more minute inequahty of surface can be brought into view under low powers of the microscope, namely, a series of shallow depressions into which the gastric follicles open in groups of from four to twelve. Formerly they