449 COELIAC AXIS. of the stomach from right to left between the hiyers of the great omentum, supplying both gastric and omental branches, and terminates by anastomosing with the left gastro-epiploic branch from the splenic artery; the other, the superwr pancrcatico-duodemd artery, descends between the head of the pancreas and the duodenum, supplying both, and anas- tomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch from the superior mesenteric artery. The right termimd branch of the hepatic artery passes behind or between the hepatic and cystic ducts, and after giving off the ci/stic brancli to the gall bladder reaches the right end of the portal fissure, where it divides into a number of branches which supply the greater part of the right lobe. The left terminal branch passes towards the left end of the transverse fissure to enter the left lobe, which it supplies. It gives off in addition a branch to the Spigelian lobe, and it partly supplies the quadrate lobe. The hepatic artery may spring directly from the aorta. One or other of the terminal divisions is sometimes assisted or replaced by branches of the superior mesenteric or of the gastric. The whole artery may be wanting, its place being taken by branches from one or both of the above- mentioned trunks. {b) The gastric artery (coronarn artery of the stomach) (Fig. 338), the smallest branch of the coeliac axis, runs at first upwards and to the left behind the posterior wall of the lesser sac of the peritoneum to the cardiac end of the stomach, where it detaches some oesophageal branches. It then bends sharply downwards and to the right, and courses along the lesser curvature of the stomach towards the pylorus. It terminates by inosculating with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. Its chief branches are oesophageal and gastric; the former anastomose with the thoracic oesophageal arteries; the latter descend on both surfaces of the stomach, and anastomose with the branches of the arteries of the greater curvature. A small Itepatic branch passes to the left lobe of the liver and anastomoses with the left branch of the hepatic artery; occasionally this branch is much enlarged, and it may assist or even replace the left hepatic artery. (c) The splenic artery (Fig. 338), the largest branch of the coeliac axis, passes to the left and courses, often in a tortuous manner, along the upper border of the pancreas and across the anterior surface of the left kidney. It lies behind the posterior wall of the smaller sac of the peritoneum, and approaches the spleen between the layers of the splenio-phrenic ligament. It supplies branches to the pancreas, spleen, and stomach. The ^xr/ic?'(?rt^fc branches are small and numerous; one of them larger than the others runs from left to right in the gland along with the duct. The left gastro-epiploic artery arises near the termination of the parent trunk, and passes from left to right along the greater curvature of the stomach; it terminates by inosculating with the right gastro-epiploic branch of the hepatic artery; its branches, gastric and omental, in their distribution anastomose with offsets of the other gastric and the colic arteries. The rasa brevia of the