GENEEAL ANATOMY. 52 bulk back from the poles so as to give them a common origin, through which currents of nervous action must pass in both directions. Also, bipolar corpuscles were described thirty years ago by Beale and Julius Arnold independently occurring in the sympathetic of the frog, in general appearance unipolar, but having one pole originating superficially and wound round another of deep origin, afterwards to separate from it and take an opposite direction. In numbers of multipolar nerve-corpuscles the poles are well made out to be of two sorts—one remaining as a single stem, the axis-cylinder of a nerve, while the others break up repeatedly into smaller branches which end in fine extremities. Thus, in the multipolar corpuscles of the anterior cornua of the spinal cord, all the poles branch, save one, which is con- tinuous with an emerging fibre of an anterior nerve-root, and is distinguished as the axis-cylinder pole or jyole of Deiters. The arrangement is not universal, for the two original poles of the corpuscles of the spinal ganglia are certainly both axis-cylinders; but it is important. The branching poles are called p-otojjlasmic, as originating from the superficial part of the corpuscle, Avhile the axis-cylinder has been supposed to have a deeper origin. The axis-cylinder, though remaining a continuous stem, or only once bifurcating, may give off numerous fine lateral branches known as collaterals, extending considerable distances within nervous substance; and both the main axis-cylinders and the collaterals terminate in arborizations or ramifications within a microscopic space. Such details and much of the recent advances in knowledge of the nervous system are due to the methods of metallic staining invented by Golgi, principally those in which chromate of silver is. deposited. From such observations Ramon y Cajal has arrived at the following generaliza- tions :—" Nerve-corpuscles are independent unities, and never in continuity either by their protoplasmic branches or by their nervous expansions the axis-cylinders. Every axis-cylinder ends in arborizations, varicose and flexuose, after the fashion of the nervous ramifications of the motor plate in muscles. These arborizations apply themselves either to the bodies or the protoi3lasmic expansions of the nerve-corpuscles, establishing connec- tions by contiguity or contact, as efficacious as connections by continuity of substance would be, for the transmission of the currents." Some observers believe the function of the protoplasmic branches to be purely nutritious; but if Cajal's views are correct, both the protoplasmic poles and the axis-cylinder are paths of nervous activity. Also, though we continue to speak of commissures, meaning thereby nerve-fibres uniting similar centres, it is plain that if nerve-corpuscles are never united there can be no true commissure between corresponding corjjuscles of opposite sides, and trans- verse commissures must resolve themselves into decussations ; and, indeed, there is other evidence that they are so in the spinal cord, the pons Varolii and the corpus callosum.