247 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. Ossification. The occipital, as already stated, consists at birth of a basilar, two lateral and a superior portion. To the basilar part belong the basilar process and fore parts of the condyles; the lateral portions bound the foramen magnum on its sides, and to them belong the jugular processes and greater part of the condyles ; the superior or tabular portion reaches to the fora- men magnum in the middle line, and forms the expanded part of the bone. The basilar and lateral portions have each one centre of ossifica- tion appearing in cartilage about the end of the second month; the superior portion has four centres all appearing in membrane prior to the others, and becoming soon united, the upper pair corresponding with the interparietals, seen in many mammals, e.g. the sheep. The superior part of the occipital becomes united to the lateral in the second year, and the lateral parts to the basilar by the sixth year. The anterior condyloid foramen, originally in front of the lateral portion, is completed by growth forwards of the supraforaminal ridge. The parietal probably begins to ossify about the seventh week. It soon appears to consist of one centre of ossification radiating from the parietal eminence; but, as pointed out by Toldt, there is a second and lower centre, the network formed by which can be discerned, forming a distinct pattern at the lower and back part for a considerable time. This explains the rare anomaly of two parietal bones on one or both sides. The parietal foramen is originally a deep gap open towards the middle line, and with its fellow of the opposite side has been described, unnecessarily enough, as a sagittal fontanelle closed before birth. The frontal also probably begins to ossify about the seventh week. It has one centre of ossification corresponding with each frontal eminence. The two frontals thus formed are separated by the frontal suture which persists till the seventh or eighth year, and sometimes throughout life (p. 243). Three supplementary centres on each side have been noted (Testut). The sphemid has a pair of osseous centres in the posterior part of the body (postsphenoicl), a smaller pair in the anterior part {presphenoid), and an independent centre in each ala. The centres of the great alae {ali- rudiment of the stapedius muscle ; and possibly it may be the same structure which Salensky figures as uniting the long process of the incus with the hyoid cartilage. But m the third and fourth months the hyoid cartilage, though united to the front of the mastoid part of the cartilaginous cranium, can be followed up into continuity with the posterior process of the incus ; and in many adult mammals it can be seen that this continuity is only broken by articulation. The stapes is generally supposed to originate from the wall of the labyrinth. My dissections haAe satisfied me that it is primarily continuous with the incus, and afterwards applied to the petrous. (See Cleland, Memoirs and Memoranda in Anatomy, 1889.)