450 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. stomach, four or five in number, pass between the layers of the gastro- splenic omentum to the left extremity of the stomach, and anastomose with the other gastric arteries. The splenic branches, six or seven in number, enter the hilum of the spleen. The superior mesenteric artery (Fig. 339), a little smaller than the coeliac axis, arises below it from the front of the aorta, under cover of the pancreas. It emerges between the pancreas and duodenum and, entering the mesentery, passes between its folds downwards and to the right towards the caecum. Its branches supply the lower part of the duodenum, the rest of the small intestine, the ascending colon, and half of the transverse colon. The inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch springs from the right side of the parent trunk and, after passing to the right, ascends between the pancreas and duodenum to anastomose with the superior pancreatico- duodenal branch of the gastro-duodenal of the hepatic artery. The middle colic artery springs from the right side of the parent trunk and passes for- wards in the meso-colon to supply the right half of the transverse colon. It inosculates with the ascending branch of the left colic of the inferior mesenteric artery. The right colic, arising from the right side of the main vessel, passes outwards to the ascending colon. The ileo-colic, also springing from the right side, passes downwards and to the right and supplies the caecum and the neighbouring portions of the tube. The small intestinal branches (vasa intestini tenuis), twelve to sixteen in number, pass from the front of the parent stem to the small intestine. The successive branches of the superior mesenteric artery inosculate with one another, forming loops, the branches from which, again inosculating, form secondary loops; and between the arteries which pass to the jejunum and ileum, tertiary and even quaternary loops may thus be formed. From the ultimate loops branches pass to both sides of the intestine, communicating in the wall freely with one another. Variations in the superior mesenteric artery are by no means uncommon. The number of branches is often reduced by the conjunction, at their bases, of neighbouring colic arteries; on the other hand, additional branches are frequently detached to viscera other than those usually supplied by the vessel. The inferior mesenteric artery (Fig. 340), smaller than the superior, arises from the front of the aorta about an inch and a half above the bifurcation. It descends with an inclination to the left, giving off the left colic and sigmoid branches, and is continued as the superior haemorrhoidal artery into the pelvis, crossing in its course the left common iliac artery. The left colic branch passes to the left and divides into an ascending and descending branch, the former of which anastomoses with the middle colic artery, the latter with the sigmoid artery. The sigmoid branch runs downwards and to the left and breaks up for the supply of the sigmoid flexure ; it anastomoses below with the superior haemor- rhoidal artery. The branches of the left colic and sigmoid arteries form