THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 468 THE VENOUS SYSTEM. THE VEINS OF THE HEART. The veins of the heart terminate in a common trunk, the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus (Fig. 308), about an inch in length, lies in the posterior part of the auriculo-ventricular furrow, between the left auricle and ventricle, and opens into the right auricle, the orifice, which is guarded by the valve of Thebesius, being placed between the Eustachian valve and the auriculo-ventricular opening. The tributaries of the sinus are the left and right coronary veins, the posterior interventricular vein, and the oblique vein. The left or great coronary vein (Fig. 308) runs in the auriculo-ventricular furrow, beginning in front and terminating behind in the left extremity of the sinus. Its chief tributary is the anterior interventricular vein, a vessel which, much larger than the anterior part of the coronary vein into which it falls, ascends in the anterior interventricular groove, receiving branches from the surface of both ventricles. The left coronary also receives from the surface of the left ventricle a number of posterior cardiac veins, one among which, sometimes larger than the others, is named the left marginal vein. Some of the posterior cardiac veins fall directly into the sinus. The right or small coronary vein (Fig. 308) runs in the auriculo-ventricular furrow, beginning in front and terminating behind by falling into the right extremity of the sinus. It receives from the surface of the right ventricle a number of anterior cardiac veins, one among which is sometimes named the right marginal vein. The posterior interventricidar vein ascends in the posterior interventricular furrow, and falls into the right extremity of the sinus, generally by a separate orifice, but in very close proximity to the opening of the right coronary vein. Both coronary veins receive, in addition to the tributaries from the ventricular walls, some small irregular vessels from the surface of the auricles. The oblique vein, the remahis of the left duct of Cuvier, descends in the vestigial fold of Marshall, and enters the left extremity of the coronary sinus. It is very slender and is frequently impervious. The orifices of all the veins which open into the sinus, with the exception of that of the oblique vein, are guarded by valves. In addition to the large veins which open into the sinus, a number of very small veins, venae minirnae cordis, run in the substance of the cardiac wall, and open into some of the pits of Thebesius in the right auricle. The Vena Cava Superior. The superior vena cava (Figs. 351, 359) is formed by the junction of the right and left innominate veins, and descends from behind the first