THE MUSCLES. 294 at its upper end. Some fibres are detached from the tendon to the fascia of the leg. A bursa lies between the tendons and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The semimembranosus, springing from the upper and outer facet upon the ischial tuberosity by a broad tendon, membranous in the greater part of its breadth and several inches in length, terminates beloAV in a tendon which divides into three portions—one detached to the fascia covering the popliteus muscle, another to the posterior surface of the capsule of the knee, the third passing forwards under cover of the internal lateral ligament of the joint to the extremity of the groove on the inner surface of the head of the tibia. The muscular belly is formed of short oblique fibres running between the tendon of origin which is continued downwards for some distance on its outer side and the tendon of inser- tion continued upwards on the inner side, and thus possesses greater force and smaller extent of contraction than the other hamstring muscles. Close to its origin it passes in front of the outer part of the common tendon of the other hamstrings, and thereafter is continued down the thigh along the anterior edge of the semitendinosus. A bursa separates the tendon of insertion from the inner head of the gastrocnemius. The groove in which a portion of the tendon lies is lined by firm fibrous tissue and lubricated by a synovial membrane. Variations of the posterior femoral muscles. The short head of the biceps may be absent, and sometimes, though very rarely, the semi- membranosus is absent. On the other hand, an additional head of the biceps is occasionally found springing from the internal supracondylar line, the linea aspera, or the ischium. An additional head of the semi- membranosus may be present, springing from the linea aspera. INNER FEMORAL REGION. The muscles of this group are the gracilis, pectineus, adductor longus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus. At their origins they occupy the anterior surface of the pubis and ischium, above, to the inner side of, and below the obturator externus. The gracilis passes downwards to the inner side of the knee. The others pass outwards, downwards and slightly backwards towards the linea aspera and the lines continued from it. At the insertion the pectineus, adductor brevis,. and adductor longus lie in order from above downwards in front of the adductor magnus, but the adductor brevis is overlapped by the lower edge of the pectineus. The upper part of the inner edge of the adductor longus forms on the front of the upper third of thigh, the inner boundary of a triangular area, Scarpa's triangle, the outer margin of which is formed by the upper part of the sartorius and the floor by the pectineus and portions of the iliacus, psoas, adductor brevis, and adductor longus. From base to apex of this space the femoral artery passes downwards in the thigh. After traversing