THE MIDDLE EAR the internal ear by producing an oblique position in which only the posterior fibres of the annular ligament will be tightened, while anteriorly the base of the stapes is pressed against the vestibular side of the wall of the fenestra. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is prolonged from the pharynx through the Eustachian tube, and extends back to line the mastoid cells. Its folds are not quite constant in their arrangement. It surrounds cylindrically the stapes and lower end of the descending process of the incus. Above the incus it is prolonged from behind on the outer wall of the tympanum to the malleus, forming the boundary of a posterior fossa. It also connects the posterior or short process of the incus, together with the chorda tympani nerve, to the outer wall. In front of the head of the malleus the chorda tympani and processus gracilis of the malleus are connected by a fold to the outer wall; and above this is the anterior fossa, separated from the posterior by the superior and external ligaments of the malleus. A small recess between the external ligament and the short process of the malleus is called Eussac's space, and lies opposite the portion of the membrana tympani in the notch of Rivini. In structure the mucous membrane is very thin, and for the most part it is closely connected with the periosteum. It is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium on the floor and internal wall; but this is changed for a single layer of squamous cells on the tympanic membrane. The mucous membrane of the middle ear is supplied by Jacobson's nerve, the tympanic branch of the glosso-pliaryngeal. incus Fig. 508.—Right ]\ri:MBRANA Tympani. f. A, From outside. £, From within, with malleus and incus in situ. The membrana tympani separates the middle from the external ear. It is attached to the inner extremity of the meatus auditorius externus, and lies obliquely to it, its inferior edge being nearer the mesial plane than the superior, and the anterior nearer than the posterior; so that the lower and anterior part forms an acute angle with the floor of the meatus, and the upper and posterior part an obtuse angle with its roof. Below the middle, it presents an umbo or apex of a shallow cone, directed inwards, corresponding in position with the tip of the handle of the malleus, and sometimes in the living subject permitting indications of the form of that structure to be seen. Above, in the notch of Rivini, there is a little 2 u