586 CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. It is most developed in the cervical and lumbar enlargements, and smallest below the middle of the thoracic region, where both anterior and posterior cornu are very narrow, while in the conns medullaris the white matter disappears more rapidly than the grey, leaving a ring of unsurrounded grey matter at the upper end of the hlum terminale. The anierior cornu has an outline running from its foremost part in a direction outwards and backwards; and more or less continuous Fio. 423. Fig. 424. Fig. 423.—Spinal and Sympathetic Ganglia from Neck of Chick of 17th Day. A, Spinal cord ; b, anterior root; c, posterior root; d, spinal ganglion ; e, spinal nerve ; F, sympathetic ganglion, o, a, Sympathetic axis-cylinders of the communicating branches directed to the spinal nerve ; b, protoplasmic branches of sympathetic nerve- corpuscles ; d, nerve-corpuscle of anterior or motor-root; e, e, sympathetic axis-cylinders becoming vertical; /, artery cut across ; g, body of Tertebra; h, fusiform corpuscle of spinal ganglion ; i, i, transition from bipolar to unipolar corpuscle ; j, completely uni- polar corpuscle. (Cajal.) Fig. 424.—Semi - Diagrammatic Longitudinal Section of Posterior Column, PARALLEL TO POSTERIOR RooTs. s, White substaiicc ; o, grey substance; a, posterior root; a', collateral from its ascending branch ; h', collateral from its stem ; B, collateral from its inferior branch ending in arborization (above the letter); c, corpuscle with axis-cylinder which turns upwards in the white substance ; d, corpuscle with bifurcating axis-cylinder; e, corpuscle with axis-cylinder turned downwards ; f, g, arborizations of axis-cylinders. (Cajal.) with this outward extension, but most distinct from it in the region supplying the thoracic nerves, there is a projection which has been called the lateral horn (intermedio-lateral tract of Lockhart Clarke); while in the concavity between this and the posterior cornu the grey matter has a particular tendency to form a reticulation round longitudinal white bundles, the reticular process. The anterior cornu has the most abundant cells, and those which appear the largest in transverse sections of the cord; they are multipolar, and have their axis-cylinder-processes con-