433 THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY, off' numerous muscular branches which anastomose with twigs of the vertebral artery. Surgical anatomy of the subclavian artery. The first and second parts of the artery are so deeply placed, and have such important connections, that, save in very exceptional circumstances, an operation upon them would hardly be considered justifiable. The third part of the vessel may, however, be easily reached. A horizontal incision is made across the lower part of the posterior triangle, about half an inch above the clavicle, from the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid to the anterior edge of the trapezius. In making this incision the surgeon usually draws downwards the skin of the neck and cuts through it against the clavicle. In the superficial fascia, the platysma and a number of the descending branches from the cervical plexus are met with, and, occasionally, a vein from the arm, a branch from or a continuation of the cephalic. At the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid the external jugular vein passes through the deep fascia, and receives on its outer side its suprascapular and transverse cervical tributaries which sometimes form a small plexus in front of the artery. They must be drawn aside or divided between ligatures. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, with the transverse cervical artery coursing outwards immediately below it, is placed a little above the line of the subclavian; the suprascapular artery lies behind the clavicle; if necessary, these structures must be drawn aside. The edge of the scalenus anticus muscle is to be defined and the finger passed downwards along it to the scalene tubercle of the first rib. The artery emerges from behind the muscle and may, as a rule, be easily recognized. The cords of the brachial plexus lie above the artery and on a plane posterior to it, the lowest cord being in close proximity to it. The vein lies in front and below. The needle is passed from above down- wards and behind forwards, between the lowest nerve-cord and the artery, and should be handled with great care, as there is danger of wounding the pleura. During the operation the clavicle should be kept depressed as much as possible. The vertebral artery may be ligatured through an incision extend- ing upwards from the clavicle for about three inches along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The external jugular vein and the sterno-mastoid are drawn inwards. The line between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus can be appreciated by the finger, and the carotid tubercle of the sixth vertebra can be easily recognized. The artery lies a little below the tubercle. Its vein lies immediately in front of it and must be pushed aside. The branches of the sympathetic nerve are to be separated as far as possible. The inferior tliijrokl artery may be reached through an incision made along the anterior border of the lower part of the sterno-mastoid. The carotid sheath is to be drawn outwards. The artery passes inwards from behind the sheath, a little below the carotid tubercle. 2e