263 MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. A triangular space is left between the upper border of the teres major, the margin of the scapula, and the upper end of the humerus; this space the long head of the triceps divides into two portions, the outer quadrilateral, the inner triangular. THE MUSCLES OF THE ARM. These are the coraco-brachialis, the biceps, the brachialis anticus, and the triceps. The first three occupy the front of the arm; the triceps with which the anconeus muscle is associated covers the posterior surface of the humerus. The coraco-brachialis arises from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula in association with the short head of the biceps. It is inserted into the inner surface of the shaft of the humerus about the middle of the bone. From the insertion some tendinous fibres are continued into the internal intermuscular septum of the arm. In the upper half of its length the muscle is conjoined with the short head of the biceps. It is pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve which supplies it, and is crossed near its insertion by the brachial artery. The biceps (biceps brachii) arises from the scapula by two heads—the long from the tubercle above the apex of the glenoid fossa, the short from the tip of the coracoid process in association with the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is inserted into the posterior portion of the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and by a slip into the fascia of the upper and inner part of the forearm. The long head is a rounded tendon continuous at the margms of its origin with the glenoid ligament, and prolonged through the joint, where it is invested by the synovial membrane, to the bicipital groove of the humerus, down which it is continued for some distance. The short head, tendinous at first, soon becomes muscular, and separating from the coraco-brachialis in the upper third of the arm, blends a little further down with the muscular fibres of the long head to form the belly of the muscle, which occupies a prominent position on the front of the arm. The tendon of insertion, originating a little above the elbow, passes deeply into the hollow below the joint to reach the bone, a bursa inter- vening between it and the most prominent portion of the tuberosity. From its inner edge about the level of the joint an aponeurotic slip, the semilunar fascia, is detached and becomes incorporated with the fascia of the inner region of the forearm. The pectoralis major crosses the heads of the muscle. The brachialis anticus lies behind it in the lower part of the arm. The brachial artery lies along its inner edge, and is often overlapped by it. The semilunar fascia crosses the artery. The biceps is supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve which lies behind it. Occasionally a third head, springing from the humerus close to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, is met with;