CEREBRO-SPINAL MEMBRANES. 578 of the temporal bone, with the superior petrosal sinus in the groove along its line of attachment, and stretches from the tip of the petrous to the tip of the anterior clinoid process. Its free margin is of a horse- shoe form, reaching from one anterior clinoid process to the other, in- cluding in its curve a space through which passes a constricted part of the brain, termed isthmus cerebri; and its surface is arched, being most elevated in the middle of its free edge. The falx cerebri is a mesial septum named from being sickle-shaped. It is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid, and along by the whole length of the groove marking the course of the superior longitudinal sinus, and to the tentorium cerebelli forwards as far as the free margin of the latter. The free margin of the falx cerebri is not always very definite throughout; and running in connection with it there is a small venous channel, the inferior longitudinal sinus. This and a trunk formed by the veins of Galen, enter from the interior of the brain at the junction of the margins of the falx cerebri and tentorium, while the straight sinus is hollowed out in the line of contact of these two septa.^ The falx cerebelli is a slight mesial projection of dura mater beneath the tentorium, and in its line of attachment the occipital sinus is placed. The arachnoid is a thin transparent membrane which loosely invests the cerebro-spinal axis, superficial to the pia mater, resting on it in many places and connected with it by loose tissue, while in others it is com- pletely separated by a considerable distance; the whole interval, both where fibres are absent and where they are present, constituting the subarachnoid space. The arachnoid is a water-tight membrane, presenting to the subdural space a smooth surface covered with endothelium, and consists mainly of laminated straight white fibres, which near the surface are stretched out in a sheet without perforation, but more deeply form trabecular Immediately under the endothelium, and also more deeply, there is also homogeneous membrane, alleged to be composed of flattened cells. Large oval nuclei, like those of synovial membranes, are abundant in the trabeculated part, and leucocytes occur in great numbers in the meshes. In the spi7ial canal the arachnoid surrounds not only the spinal cord, but the collection of roots of nerves proceeding downwards from it called Cauda equina, enveloping it in one large loose sheath, which extends down to the extremity of the tube of dura mater; and it is within this extensive part of the subarachnoid space, together with its continuation upwards on the spinal cord, that the cerebro-spinal fluid is principally situated, while the surfaces of the subdural space are more closely in contact, ^Bearing on the irregularity of the free margin of the falx, I have made the observation that in the foetus the falx extends down to the corpus callosum, and is inferiorly quite continuous with the arachnoid, and that before birth the lower part begins to disappear, leaving the fold of arachnoid from one hemisphere to the other free or nearly so.