698 THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. fangs of the lower molars may curve a little backwards; and it is im- portant in dentistry to note that they are directed downwards and outwards, and that therefore a slightly inward inclination should be given to the traction when the forceps is applied to them. In both jaws the third molars, or wisdom teeth, are smaller than the others and may have the fangs dwarfed, the root coming to a single point. In the upper jaw the third molar occasionally has a fang directed quite inwards. The temporary or milk teeth are smaller than those which replace them. The incisors differ from permanent incisors in having no grooves on the labial surface, and in the fangs being generally narrower at the base as compared with the breadth of the crown. The milk molars have characters similar to the permanent molars, but their fangs diverge and bend round the crowns of the bicuspids," to some extent grasping them. Fig. 530.—Temporary and Permanent Teeth in the jaws of a child six years old. The temporary teeth are all still present, and the crowns of the corresponding permanent teeth are formed ; the first molars have appeared, and behind them are the second molars with the divisions between the fangs in process of formation. Development of the teeth. A tooth, like a hair, is developed in con- nection with a single papilla which appears in a previously developed recess filled with epithelium. The enamel is, however, the only part developed from epithelium, and even the enamel is derived altogether from the elongated or deepest stratum of corpuscles, while the other layers ultimately disappear. The existence in both jaws of a furrow with ten recesses for the milk teeth was detected at the ninth week of foetal life by F. Arnold (1831), and the details connected with these and with the first appearance of the permanent teeth in the human subject, so far as can be seen with the simple lens on removal of the epithelium, was worked out by Goodsir (1839). His researches show that in the seventh week the primitive groove filled with thickened epithelium appears, and from the bottom of this the series of recesses or follicles of the milk teeth, each containing a papilla, is formed, the follicle for the first milk molar appearing first, then that for the second milk molar, next that for the canine, and