GENERAL ANATOMY. 92 notochord becomes surrounded by a sbeath, from which are continued the memhrana reuniem superior round the neural canal, and the menibrana reuniens inferior round the visceral cavity; and thus is formed the mem- hranous vertebral column. In fishes and amphibians it undergoes further development, its texture presenting large membranous vesicles or cell-walls in juxtaposition, like the cellulose cell-walls of plants. In the lamprey and sturgeon it is developed into a large cylindrical structure in a stout sheath of circular and longitudinal fibres. In most fishes it has an in- terrupted form in the adult, constituting the jelly between the vertebral bodies. In mammals it entirely disappears, except so far as it takes part in the formation of the central parts of the invertebral discs. Zones and segments. To the sides of the neural axis, and passing round it in front, there soon make their appearance two zones, the paraxial and the lateral, distinguished by a difference in the development of the mesoblast. The mesoblast of the paraxial zone, the dorsal plate, is thick and separated by a deep and a superficial groove from the lateral zone. That of the lateral zone, the lateral plate, splits into a superficial or parietal and a deep or visceral layer, between which is the space constituting the coelom or body-cavity, afterwards divided into the sacs of the pericar- dium, pleura and peritoneum. The superficial or cutaneous layer forms, with the cuticular epiblast and the subsequently intruding muscular layer, the somatopleure; while the deep is the musculo-intestinal layer, and adhering to the hypoblast forms the splanchiopleure, from which the digestive tube is developed. After the first day's hatching in the chick, and about the eighth day after impregnation in the rabbit, there appear in the paraxial zones, behind the part destined as brain, a pair of dense patches, rapidly followed, as development proceeds, by successive pairs behind them, till the appearance is given of a double range of square blocks on the dorsum of the embryo. These are the protovertebrae of older writers, more properly termed mesoblastic somites. In the newt it is made out very distinctly not only that each of these consists of a hollow inclosed by a single layer of cells, but that the hollows are- originally continuous with the coelom, and their walls with the two layers of mesoblast bounding it. This is not, however, in all vertebrates so apparent. In both birds and mammals each somite consists of a dense mass of corpuscles, and in mammals the hollows are minute. These somites are specially concerned Fig. 98.—Live Chick of 48 Hours, a, In front of second primary cerebral vesicle ; b, be- tween the second and third ; c, auditory pit between the fourth and fifth comjiartments of the third cerebral vesicle ; d, heart; e, opposite the first mesoblastic somite, that of the occipito- atlantal segment; /, thalamen- cephalon ; g, hemisphere ; olfactory pit. At the lower part the primitive streak and groove are still visible.