479 VEINS OF THE THOIIAX. and the basilar plexus, take part in forming a venous ring at the foramen magnum. Laterally they are connected by their branches with the veins of the cord and with offsets from the anterior intraspinal vessels. The intra- spinal veins lie between the dura mater and the walls of the spinal canal. THE VEINS OF THE THORAX. The internal mammary veins (Fig. 351) are two trunks which lie one on each side of the artery. In the first or second intercostal space they join with one another to form a single vessel, which is placed by the inner side of the artery, and falls into the innominate vein of its own side. The intercostal veins (Fig. 359) are eleven in number on each side. Each vein lies above its companion artery, and receives tributaries corre- sponding to its branches. With the exception of one or two of the higher vessels on each side, the intercostal veins, in their passage inwards, cross behind the cords of the sympathetic. On the rigid side the first intercostal vein ascends by the side of the superior intercostal artery, and terminates in the vertebral vein. The veins of the second, third, and fourth spaces usually join with one another to form a descending trunk, the right superior intercostal vein, which falls into the vena azygos major as it is arching over the root of the lung. The lower veins terminate separately in the great azj-gos vein. On the left side the first intercostal vein, like that of the right side, ascends to the vertebral vein. The second, third, fourth, and frequently one or two more, fall into an ascending trunk, the left superior intercostal vein which crosses the arch of the aorta, and joins the left innominate vein. Still lower, two or three veins cross the middle line and enter the great azygos vein either separately or by a common trunk, the left upper or third azygos vein, which is frequently connected with the lower end of the left superior intercostal vein. The lowest three or four veins of the left side open into the left lower or smaller azygos vein. The azygos veins (Fig. 359). The great or right azygos vein commences in the abdomen, as the ascending lumbar vein, a vessel which ascends in front of the transverse processes and connects the successive lumbar veins with one another, and which, in addition, is usually connected with the common iliac vein, the inferior cava, and the renal vein by branches, any one of which may become enlarged and appear as the root of the azygos vein. The great azygos vein ascends through the aortic opening, and continues its course upwards on the vertebral column lying to the right of the aorta and the thoracic duct. About the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra it leaves the spine and arches over the root of the right lung to fall into the superior vena cava. It receives the first lumbar vein of the right side and all the right intercostal veins except the first, the right bronchial vein and some oesophageal branches, and, in addition, through the left azygos veins, a number of the intercostal veins of the left side.