439 THE BE A CHI AL AETERY. brachial artery splits above into two trunks of equal size, uniting with one another below to form a single vessel, which divides in the usual manner into the radial and ulnar arteries. At other times, when there are two vessels, one is long and slender, springing from the brachial above and joining below either the brachial itself or one of its main divisions; such a slender vessel is called a vas aberriois. More frequently, when there are two arteries in the arm, they pass into the forearm as separate vessels, or at most are only connected with one another there by a slender transverse branch; the condition is known as high division, or high separation of one of the branches of the brachial artery. The student will under- stand, from what has been already said, that, of the two, the artery which has the proper relation to the median nerve is the true brachial, but. in the usual nomenclature of the different forms of high division, it is generally the larger of the two vessels which receives the name of brachial, the other being considered as a branch arising abnormally. In naming the different varieties, the interosseous artery of the forearm, in normal circumstances a branch from the upper part of the ulnar artery, is reckoned of equal importance with the ulnar and radial vessels. The most common variety is that which is termed a high radial, one of the stems being continued into the ulnar and interosseous, the other into the radial alone. Next in frequency comes the high idnar, one stem being continued into the radial and interosseous, the other into the ulnar alone. Very rare is the high interosseous, one stem being continued into the radial and ulnar, the other into the interosseous alone. The point at which the high divi- sion takes place is most commonly in the upper part of the arm, frequently indeed in the axilla, less commonly in the lower part of the arm, and rarely in the middle. The superior and inferior profunda arteries often spring by a common stem. Sometimes the superior profunda is absent, its place being taken by a branch from the posterior circumflex artery. Surgical anatomy of the brachial artery. The course of the artery may be indicated by a line drawn from the axilla, a little behind the anterior fold, to the middle of the hollow in front of the elbow. The vessel may be compressed by pressure directed in the upper two-thirds of the course outwards and slightly backwards, in the lower third directly backwards. The artery may be ligatured at any point, the more usual places being the bend of the elbow and the middle of the arm. AYhen the operation is performed at the elbow, an incision of about two inches in length is made along the inner edge of the biceps tendon. The median basilic vein is to be avoided, the semilunar fascia cut through, the venae comites separated, and the needle introduced from within outwards. When the operation is performed at the middle of the arm, the presence of the basilic vein in the superficial fascia is to be remembered. The arm is abducted and extended, and an incision about two and a half inches in length is made along the line of the artery. The inner edge of the biceps