29 BONE. having prolongations lying in canaliculi, while the other side is free. The absorption-spaces are similar in nature to irregular depressions found in the walls of growing medullary cavities and known as pits of Howship, but are inclosed passages destined, by being concentrically filled up, to be con- verted into Haversian spaces, and finally into complete Haversian systems. They present within them, like the pits of Howship, multinucleated cor- puscular masses, such as were discovered independently by Kolliker and Eobin in marrow, and called by the one osteoclasts, and by the other myeloplaxes. There seems no reason to doubt that these multinucleated masses are corpuscles which, proliferating in a confined space, are unable to part into separate individuals till they have made room by absorbing the bone around, and that then they break up into separate osteoblasts, to deposit bone anew. Except by such a process of alternate absorption and redeposit, it is impossible to account for the Haversian systems and the irregular arrangements of interstitial lamellae. Indeed, all the stages of the process can be seen. But such considerable sections are free from absorption-spaces, or contain them so very sparsely, that it is evident that bone-corpuscles have a very considerable duration. Absorption-spaces some- times begin from a single lacuna in which may be seen a large corpuscle with several nuclei, sometimes by beaded enlargement of canaliculi, and sometimes at the sides of Haversian canals, or by pits in the side of marrow-cavities. The matrix of osseous tissue is far from structureless. The arrange- ment in lamellae, already alluded to, becomes much more distinct when examined in decalcified specimens, and the lamellae then appear much more numerous than the rings of lacunae. Also the tissue between the lamellae seems as if arranged in closely set vertical septa, which in transverse section may jDresent radiating lines extending from centre to circumference of a Haversian system. But when the section is allowed to dry, instead of distinct septa w^ith regular spaces between, an appearance of a network with larger and smaller meshes comes into view. The lamellae resist shrivelling much more than the inter- vening substance. It was pointed out by Sharpey that in decalcified bone the lamellae exhibit an appearance of fine fibres, which he figured regularly decussating. Difficulty seems to be met with in verifying this; but the fibrous appearance is easily seen, not only in torn shreds but in vertical sections of compact tissue, if a fluid be employed which will make them firmer, such as a solution of tannin. They are then seen curving alongside of one another, those in one thin sheet decussating with those in another. The substance between the lamellae consists of fibres quitting one lamella and adhering to the next. The same fibrous appearance can be seen in plates of cancellated tissue, sometimes without decalcification. Perforating fibres of Sharjpey is the name given to fibres springing from a superficial lamella, piercing others and capable of being pulled out from them. Under the same name both white and elastic fibres have