THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Ill seen in perfection in monkeys, carnivora and other animals, as spikes projecting over the following vertebra so as to lock the two vertebrae together. They are the metapophyses of Owen. The fifth lumbar vertebra has the body very distinctly deeper in front than behind, its transverse and spinous processes more massive and less shapely than those of the other four, its inferior articular processes wide apart, and in connection with this, the inferior margins of its laminae thrown backwards and outwards. The cervical vertebrae are seven in number, but the first two, the atlas and axis, will require separate description. All possess as a distinctive character a pair of foramina in connection with the transverse processes. These are often named arterio-vertebral, the six upper of them being usually threaded by the vertebral artery. But the seventh is never so occupied, and as the bars which complete the foramina in front are in series with b Fig. 120.—Tbird Cervical Vertebra. «, Spine; b,b, superior articular processes; c, left inferior articular process ; d, d, posterior tubercles of transverse processes ; e, e, their anterior or costal tubercles ; f, right costo- vertebral foramen. Fig. 121.—Skventh Cervical Vertebra, o, Spine; b, b, superior articular processes; c, c, costo-verte- bral foramina. necks of ribs in the thorax, it is better to distinguish them as costo- vertebral. The costal nature of the bars in question is made manifest by their springing from the side of the body, in front of the pedicle, and by the seventh cervical vertebra not only having a separate centre of ossification in each, but showing in childhood the exact extent of the costal part marked off by deep lines of separation, where the head of the rib meets the body of the vertebra and where its tubercle meets the trans- verse process. Outside the foramen the union of the two bars is effected by a thin bridge near their lower margins, on a level with the superior notch, so that the transverse process presents a groove superiorly for the emerging nerve, and at its extremity an anterior and a posterior tubercle. The bodies increase in size from the top of the series to the seventh; they have a greater diameter from side to side than from before back- wards, and their upper surfaces are bevelled at the anterior edge, while laterally the non-central parts rise up on each side above the centrum, making the body concave from side to side, and the superior notch as deep as the inferior. Conversely, the under surface of the body is convex from side to side, while in the middle it dips in front over the