NERVOUS ELEMENTS. 47 character to the texture, which is spoken of as nervous substance, and is broadly divisible into white substance and grey or cineritious, the grey alone containing nerve-corpuscles, and that not in every part. The white matter owes its whiteness to the abundance of nerve-fibres furnished with medullary sheaths described below. The grey matter lacks that source of whiteness, and has a much richer supply of capillary bloodvessels, while the nerve-corpuscles embedded in it have also a certain variable ^imount of pigment. The sup- porting substance is termed the neuroglia (or glia), but where it lines the walls of spaces it is sometimes, together with the epi- thelium, called ependyma. The glue-like material, of which it apparently consists, has been resolved by later research partly into interlacements of fine nerve- fibres which are not truly neuro- glia, and partly into nucleated corpuscles with shaggy masses of long delicate threads extend- ing far out from them, specially numerous around meduUated nerve-fibres. These corpuscles, as will be pointed out in treat- ing of the development of the spinal cord, are derived, like the nervous elements, from the primitive epiblastic cerebro-spinal axis; and from the same source there radiate branching threads con- tinuous with the epithelial cells of the central canal; but it would be hazardous to maintain the absence of other supportive substance, seeing that we must suppose that the bloodvessels are developed in the ordinary way from mesenchyma. The whole cerebro-spinal axis is surrounded by envelopes, and it is especially in the passage through the outermost of these, the dura mater, that the nerves have added to them the firm connective tissues to which they owe their tenacity throughout their distribution, a tenacity so great that they may be pulled without injury to their microscopic structure. In their distribution the cerebro-spinal nerves are arranged in bundles or funiculi, and covered by investments of firm connective tissue, which have received names not always applied in the same way by diff'erent \vriters. The most characteristic investment, however, is that immediately surrounding the funiculi, the perineurium, a firm and distinct membrane with oval nuclei, known also as the sheath of Henle. External and internal Fig. 43.—Neuroglia Corpuscles. A, From cerebral convolutions ; B, from cerebellum ; C, from peripheral part of white columns of spinal cord, with some medul- lated nerves in transverse section faintly seen. Prepared by John Morton, M.B.