WALLS AND SEPTA OF THE CEREBRAL VENTRICLES. 617 ventricles; in the concavity of the genu it is concealed laterall}- by the corpora striata, and between them gives attachment to the two laminae of the septum lucidum, with the fifth ventricle between; while further back it is directly united to the two lateral halves of the fornix, whose lines of continuity with it recede from the mesial plane as they pass backwards. At its posterior extremity the corpus callosum is about twice as thick as it is further forwards; it may be about a third of an inch in depth, and looked at from below presents behind the fornix a limited projection, broader in the middle, the splcniiun. 1\\ front of this a triangular portion, transversely striated, the I lira, is seen. At the genu the corpus callosum is again greatly thickened before thinning awaj^ in the rostrum. The fibres traced into the hemispheres spread out in every direction, and those in front and behind curve forwards and backwards respectively, constituting the so-called forceps minor and major. The corpus callosum is occasionally altogether absent. The recorded cases of total absence have usually been accompanied with other deficiency of cerebral development, sufticient of itself to account for the idiocy which in most cases, but not all, has been observed during life. The septum lucidum is the name given to a pair of vertically-placed laminae considered as one structure, but really quite distinct, with their inner surfaces separated by a small mesial space, the fifth ventricle, and their outer surfaces looking into the lateral ventricles. It bridges the distance between the fore half of the corpus callosum and the fornix, being attached to the fornix by an edge looking downwards and backwards, and to the corpus callosum in the rest of its extent, and being of a shape rounded and deep in front but tapering to a point behind. Each lamina is a portion of the wall of the corresponding hemisphere, which has become separated, by the development of the corpus callosum, from the part whose surface looks into the great longitudinal fissure; and although it is flat and only about -^^ih. inch in thickness, it consists of white matter coated with grey on the surface looking towards its fellow and originally con- tinuous with the cortex of the convolu- tions. The fifth ventricle, the mesial space between the two laminae of the septum lucidum, is as much as a tenth of an inch in breadth in front, while its lateral walls come in contact behind. Though originating as a Fig. 44S.—The Latkral am> Fifih Ven- tricles, a, Posterior fibres nf (,■■ .rpnv callo- sum; h, genu of corpus callosuni, witli fifth ventricle below ; c, fornix and, external to it, choroid plexus : il, cor])us striatum and, be- tween it and the choroid plexus, ]iart of optic thalamus with stria tei iiiinalis in the furrow ; e, section of corpus striatum : /, descending cornu of lateral ventricle with Ijiiipdcampus major occupying its tloor, and limbria be- tween it and the choroid plexus; (i, hippo- campus minor in the posterior cornu.