THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. 704 mesial septum, the lowermost with a downward and the uppermost with an upward curve; and the vertical fibres stretching between the upper and under surfaces, in curves with the convexity inwards. The dorsum of the tongue presents a different appearance from the rest of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It is marked in the middle line by a more or less distinct furrow or raphe which terminates behind, between the anterior pillars of the fauces, in a blind depression, foramen caecum, in the centre of a V-shaped furrow separating a posterior area from the rest of the tongue.^ In front of this, it is covered with papillae much larger than those of the rest of the mouth or of the skin, and bearing on their surface others corresponding to those. The papillae are of three kinds—filiform, fungiform and circumvallate. The filiform papillae are set closely all over the surface, with a certain amount of regularity, giving an appearance of lines diverging with forward inclination from the raphe, and ending in distinct ridges at the sides of the tongue, the hinder- most of which are best marked, constituting what is sometimes termed fimbria linguae, and correspond with more difi'erentiated structures in the rabbit called the foliate papillae; their secondary papillae are collected at their tips. The fungiform papillae, larger and rounder, are scattered singly at irregular intervals broadcast among the filiform; their secondary papillae are short and abundant, so as to combine superior vascularity and less abundant epithelium, which sometimes suffice to produce a distinctive red colour. The circumvallate papillae are larger than the fungiform, about eight or ten in number, ranged in single line in front of the V-shaped furrow. They are somewhat flattened on the summit, and covered with secondary papillae; but their sides, which are sunk in a circular depres- sion, are devoid of these, and are studded with peculiar sense-organs called taste-buds. Behind the V-shaped furrow there is a distance of about an inch in which the convexity of the tongue is continued back towards the epiglottis, and a mesial fold, fraenum epiglottidis, joins it to the dorsum of that structure, while a shallow depression is left at each side. In this region the characteristic lingual papillae are absent, though irregular rugae extend back for some distance behind the V-shaped furrow; and the surface presents a number of little openings which are mouths of crypts with closed follicles in their walls, similar to those of the tonsils. The nerves of the mucous membrane of the tongue are the glosso- pharyngeal, distributed principally to the region of the circumvallate papillae, and the lingual branch of the fifth, extending to the whole surface. The secondary papillae contain in many instances end-bulbs and sometimes touch-corpuscles. TJie taste-buds are organs of sense discovered independently by Loven ^ It is to be noted that this relic of the ductus thyreogloams (p. 99) was suspected by Vater to be the duct of the thyroid, and that after many dissections he succeeded, in a child of nine months, in injecting through it what he described and figured as a salivary gland extending under the tongue and round the larynx (1720).