GENERAL ANATOMY. Y8 Hairs begin to appear in the third month of foetal life. A thickening of the epidermis in connection with a papilla dips down into the corium; in the lower part of this mass of cells the hair appears with a slender shaft and a large bulb into which a papilla projects, and after being so •elongated as sometimes to be folded on itself, bursts through to the surface. The hair which covers the infant at birth, lanugo, falls out and is replaced l3y a new growth. Hairs appear to be reproduced in two ways, namely, by a new growth on the same papilla, or by the formation of a new papilla near the bottom of the follicle. ORGANS OF COMMON SENSATION. The skin being the principal seat of common sensation, the organs of •common sensation may be conveniently examined now, even although some of the most sensitive sur- "S^ - : ^ #s faces, such as the con- ^ . :^ junctiva and the covering of the tongue, have claims ■ - V . ;: to be considered as mucous membranes; and some of the organs to be considered, such as Pacinian bodies, are not confined to the neighbourhood of free sur- faces. In the integuments, the terminal organs of nerves become smaller the nearer they are to the surface. Epidermal endings. Ex- ceedingly fine ramifications of nerves can be traced, by means of metallic staining, between the growing cor- puscles of the epidermis ; but with regard to their Fig. 74.—Vertical Section of Skin of Sole of Foot, with ramification of nerves in stratum Malpighii. The stratum <3orneum is only shown in its deepest parts. Gold preparation. (Kolliker.) exact mode of termination there is room for further investigation. In various situations in the lower animals the ramifications have been followed to disc-like expansions or other corpuscular terminations, but in the human epidermis it is not clear that they end otherwise than in intercellular threads. Branching cells in the epidermis were brought under notice by Langerhans, but are generally thought to have no connection with nerves. More probably they are wandering corpuscles seeking the surface.