162 THE SKELETON. first, allow lateral movement in the extended position so as to separate the fingers and bring them together. The lateral movement is allowed by the lateral ligaments being attached far back on the sides of the metacarpals. In consequence of this, while both external and internal ligament are tight in flexion, they are so slack in extension as to allow the surfaces to be separated for about a tenth of an inch. When the hand is open the fingers are in one flat plane, and spaces may be seen between them when held up to the light; but when the hand is cupped the joints of one finger fit against the phalanges of the next, making the cup water-tight, and the fourth and fifth metacarpals, whose bases move more freely on the carpus than do the second and third, are bent forwards so that the bases of the fingers lie in the circumference of a circle and their tips are crowded together. In clenching the fist, the fourth and fifth metacarpals are still further pulled forwards, so as at once to dig the tips of the inner fingers more firmly into the palm and make the knuckle of the third finger more prominent. THE LOWER LIMB. The lower or pelvic limb, called also the inferior extremity, is divisible into hip, thigh, leg and foot. To the hips belong the innominate bones, which, unlike the shoulder-girdle, are firmly articulated with the vertebral column, joining together with the sacrum and coccyx in the construction of the pelvis. The thigh has but one bone, the femur; the knee-joint is protected in front by a large sesamoid bone, the patella; in the leg are the tibia and fibula; and in the foot the bones are arranged in groups—the tarsus, meta- tarsus and phalanges. The Innominate Bone and Pelvis. The innominate, ])elvic or hip-bone consists of three parts—the ilium, ischium and os pubis— distinct in early life, and all taking part in the formation of the acetabulum, the articular cavity into which the head of the femur fits. The ilium expands upwards from the aceta- bulum, articulates with the sacrum and forms the lateral boundary of the expanded space called the false pelvis, at the same time that it enters into the formation of the smaller space called the true pelvis, the brim or inlet of which is formed above and behind by the base of the sacrum, and forwards from the sacrum to the acetabulum by the ilium, and from the acetabulum to the middle line in front by the OS pubis. The ischium lies posterior to the os pubis and articulates with both it and the ilium at the acetabulum. Proceeding from the Fig. 161.—Right Innominate Bone ABOUT THE TWELFTH Year, from the deep side. The three elements- ilium, ischium, and pubic bone- meet opposite the acetabulum, with an epiphysis between them.