31 BONE. adipose vesicles and a large number of amoeboid corpuscles, most of them very similar to white blood-corpuscles, others with larger nuclei, some larger in size and some smaller, also red blood-corpuscles and nucleated corpuscles containing red colouring matter. Near the bone and in recesses where absorption is going on, there are multinucleated masses, such as have been already alluded to, the osteoclasts of Kolliker, engaged in the absorption of osseous matrix. There is no real distinction between yellow and red marrow, save that the red contains a smaller number of adipose vesicles, and a larger number of other corpuscles. The resemblance of these latter to the corpuscular elements in the lymphatic glands and splenic pulp is sufficient to favour the idea noAv generally held that the marrow is a source of development of both white and red corpuscles. Capillary bloodvessels form networks in the marrow which can readily be exhibited, but at places here and there they present imperfect walls, which allow, as I have seen in the rabbit, coloured injection to mingle with the corpuscles around. Ossification. The greater number of the parts of the skeleton exist as cartilage before osseous tissue appears in them. This,, however, is not a universal arrangement, and bones Avhich do not pass through a cartila- ginous condition, but make their first appearance in membrane, are called memhrane-hones. Membrane-bones may be distinguished into t^vo kinds: those which have no connection with cartilage, and those which are formed in proximity with it, but separated from it by perichondrium. Of the first sort are the roof-bones of the skull, viz., frontal, parietals, upper portions of the occipital, and the squamous parts of the temporals. But in reference to these it may be remarked that though, in the higher animals, the primordial cartilaginous cranium does not extend to their neighbourhood, yet, in some animals, as in fishes, it is complete, exhibit- ing a roof as well as sides and base. The lower jaw and the vomer may be taken as examples of bones which, in the human subject, appear on the surface of cartilage, but separated from it by perichondrium. It may be cjuestioned if there is any radical diff'erence between membrane- bones and others, although authors have given importance to the distinction. Not only is there much of the ossification of cartilage-bones periosteal in origin, but an osseous centre which has appeared in cartilage may extend into the fibrous tissue around, so as to be altogether embedded in it. This is the case with the processus gracilis of the human malleus, and notably so with the basi-occipital of osseous fishes. There are, however, two very distinct modes of ossification, one from membrane the other from cartilage. Ossification from memhrane is exceedingly simple, and the essential part of the process has already been described as it is seen in the forma- tion of the Haversian systems and peripheral lamellae by the embedding of osteoblasts in mineralized matrix clear in appearance from the com- mencement. The same embedding of osteoblasts is seen in the ossification