503 LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Glands. The axillary glands (Fig. 375), about twelve in number, are placed beneath the deep fascia of the axilla; they are arranged in four groups. The main group, formed of five or six glands, lies by the side of the axillary vessels; it receives the deep and most of the superficial lymphatic vessels of the limb. The pectoral group is placed at the lower border of the pectoralis major by the side of the long thoracic artery; it contains two or three glands, and receives the superficial vessels of the anterior resfion of the trunk from the level of the umbilicus to the clavicle, with the exception of a few from the inner side of the mammary gland. The subscapular group lies upon the subscapular artery at the posterior border of the axilla; it is formed of two or three glands, and receives the superficial vessels of the posterior surface of the trunk from the shoulder to the level of the iliac crest; many of these, crossing the middle line without communicating with the vessels which they pass, come from the opposite side of the body. The infraclavicular group is formed of one or two small glands which lie upon the costo-coracoid membrane; it receives a few of the outermost of the superficial lymphatics of the arm and some of those from the shoulder. The difi*erent groups of glands are freely connected with one another. Their eff'erent ducts, joining to form a single trunk, or remaining as three or four distinct vessels, pass upwards along the subclavian vein and fall, on the right side, into the right lymphatic duct, and on the left into the thoracic duct. There are occasionally one or two small glands to be found in the course of the deep lymphatics by the side of the brachial artery, and in rare instances in the course of those which accompany one or other of the arteries of the forearm. In connection with the superficial lymphatics, one or two small epicondylar glands are very frequently met with a little above the internal epicondyle, close to the commencement of the basilic vein; and sometimes a small gland is found at the bend of the elbow. Vessels (Fig. 375). The superjicicd lymphatic vessels form a very close meshwork on the palmar surfaces and on the sides of the fingers, and on the palm of the hand; from the greater part of this meshwork the collecting vessels pass to the dorsum of the hand, but at the wrist a number pass to the front of the forearm. In the forearm the ascending trunks tend to accompany the superficial veins; they are very numerous and com- municate freely with one another. In the arm most of the vessels accompany the basilic vein, and a few of them usually terminate in the epicondylar glands. At the axilla the greater number pierce the fascia and terminate in the main group of the axillary glands, but a few from the outer side of the armx ascend with the cephalic vein, and end in the infraclavicular group of glands. In the course of the last mentioned vessels a small super- ficial gland is sometimes found (Sappey). The deep lymphatic vessels