MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. 893 the notch it lines the upper part of the obturator internus only, and, along a line drawn from the spine of the ischium to the symphysis, near its lower margin, it leaves the muscle and sweeps downwards and inwards to the middle line of the pelvic outlet, and there the layers of opposite sides meeting form for the pelvic cavity a floor of fascia which supports and forms a sheath for the bladder, and in the male the prostate gland, and is pierced by the rectum, and in the female by the vagina also. The portion of the fascia which sweeps inwards from the wall, and which, as above described, is continuous with the pelvic fascia, is, from its con- nection with the viscera, specially named the redo-vesical fascia. The lower part of the obturator internus is covered by a layer which is named the obturator fascia, and the under surface of the levator ani is clothed by the anal fascia; these layers line the walls of the ischio-rectal fossa, and are continuous with one another at the apex of that space. Pelvic fascia Union of obturator and anal fascia Obturator fascia Recto-vesical fascia Anal fascia Obturator membrane Obturator internus Obturator externus Levator ani Ischio-rectal fossa Ischial tuberosity Fig, 305.—Diagrammatic Section through Bladder, Rectum, and Anus, to show the relations of the pelvic fascia. The levator ani muscle lies close on the deep surface of the recto- vesical fascia; its anterior portion springs from the pelvic surface of the pubic bone, but in the greater part of its extent it arises from the deep surface of the pelvic fascia. Most of its fibres take origin along a specially strengthened line, the white line, or linea alhuginea, which marks the place where the pelvic fascia leaves the surface of the obturator interims, and is continued into the recto-vesical fascia; a few, however, spring from the fascia above the level of the white line. The obturator fascia reaches up to the white line, and becomes there continuous with the anal fascia. At the upper margin of the obturator foramen the pelvic fascia is pierced by the obturator vessels and nerve. The recto-vesical fascia sweeps backwards from the anterior,^ and inwards from the lateral walls of the pelvis to the bladder, which it reaches near the base and immediately splits into two layers. One passes upwards over the bladder, blending with its wall and forming its sheath; the other passes downwards sheathing the base and, in the male, inclosing the prostate. The attachments to the bladder constitute the true ligaments of that organ. The anterior true ligammt on