THE MUSCLES. 268 The trapezius rotates the scapula and clavicle in the manner above described, and powerfully assists the deltoid in raising the arm. The levator anguli scapulae and rhomboidei raise the upper angle of the shoulder blade, and draw the base towards the spines, and thus oppose the action of the trapezius. The serratus magnus draws the scapula from the spines and comes into play in throwing the arm forwards and in pushing. The latissimus dorsi depresses the raised arm, draws the humerus backwards, and rotates it inwards; its action is well illustrated by the backward sweep of the arm in swimming. The pedoralis major draws the arm for- wards, and assists in depressing the raised arm. The pedoralis minor draws the coracoid process forwards, and opposes the rotating action of trapezius. The subdaviiis, acting upon the outer end of the clavicle, also opposes the rotating action of the trapezius. The greater part of the deltoid abducts the humerus; but the posterior fibres, those which spring from the scapular spine, would rather tend to draw the humerus downwards and backwards. The teres major, like the latissimus dorsi, draws downwards and backwards and rotates inwards. The subscapularis rotates inwards, and may assist in depressing. The teres minor rotates outwards, and may also have a slight depressing action. The infraspinatus rotates outwards, and the supraspinatus assists the deltoid in abducting. The biceps, when acting on the shoulder alone, and the coraco-brachialis assist in abducting, and the latter muscle and the short head of the biceps also draw the limb slightly forwards. The long head of the triceps, when the elbow joint is fixed, assists in depressing the raised arm. In addition to the actions already described, many of the muscles have an important action upon the trunk if the limb be fixed: thus the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major, and the muscles which in ordinary circumstances depress the raised arm draw the body upwards on the arms in climbing; and the pectoralis major and minor, the latter especially, and perhaps also the lower fibres of the serratus magnus, by elevating the ribs take part in the motions of forced inspiration. The long head of the triceps depresses the arm, and extends the forearm; the rest of the muscle simply extends the forearm; the anconeus acts along with the inner head. The biceps supinates and flexes the forearm, and assists to raise the arm. The short head of the muscle, along with the coraco-brachialis, while assisting to raise the arm, also draws it forward. The brachialis anticus flexes the forearm. The Axilla. The axilla is the pyramidal space which lies between the upper end of the humerus and the chest wall, and is bounded in front and behind by the muscles which pass from the trunk to the upper limb. The anterior wall is formed by the pectoralis major, on the deep surface of which lie the costo-coracoid membrane and the pectoralis minor. The posterior wcdl is formed by the subscapularis, teres major, and latissimus dorsi.