409 THE HEART. Vessels and nerves. The heart is supphed by the coronary arteries, the branches of which penetrate the muscular substance in all directions. The fibrous tissue of the valves, and the whole endocardial lining layer are non-vascular. The lymphatics are very numerous, and pass to the glands on the deep surface of the aorta. The nerves come from the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses; the ventricular branches have numerous minute ganglia beneath the pericardium. Size and iceigJit. In a state of moderate distension the heart measures about 5h inches in length, 3J in breadth, 2J in thickness. In an adult man it weighs about 11 oz., in the female about 9 oz. At birth it is about y^yth of the body weight, in adult life from yyoth to yJo^^- Pericardial connections (Fig. 315). The visceral layer of the pericardium, as it leaves the vessels and is continued into the parietal layer, forms a inesocardial fold, made up of two portions, an anterior or arterial, and a posterior or venous, which were primitively connected with one another by a fold which afterwards became obliterated, leaving a passage termed the transverse sinus of the ^pericardium. The arterial part surrounds the aorta and pulmonary artery, for the distance of about two inches, with a complete pericardial tube. The venous part is formed of two limbs continuous with one another, the one ascending and the other transverse in direction, and at the angle between the two the superior vena cava lies, surrounded except for a narrow strip behind. The ascending limb runs along the posterior margin of the right auricle, beginning below at the inferior vena cava, which is partially covered by the membrane, below and in front, for about half an inch, and inclosing higher up the right pulmonary veins, which are covered, except posteriorly, for about ^th of an inch. The transverse limb passes to the left, along the upper border of the left auricle. It broadens out at the extremity, and presents three folds, the two lower for the left pulmonary veins, which, except posteriorly, are inclosed for about ^th of an inch; the highest, the vestigial fold of Marshall, contains a vestige of the left superior vena cava. THE ARTERIES AND VEINS. THE PULMONARY ARTERIES AND VEINS. The pulmonary artery springs from the heart at a spot opposite the upper margin of the third left costal cartilage at the border of the sternum. About two inches in length, it is directed upwards and backwards, and, dividing into right and left branches, terminates immediateh^ beneath the arch of the aorta, under cover of the second left costal cartilage, and opposite the body of fifth dorsal vertebra. It is separated from the chest wall by the pericardium and by the left pleura. It lies at first in front of the ascending portion of the aorta, and then to the left