510 THE NERVES. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve is of large size, and is known as the great occipital (Fig. 379). It is directed upwards behind the obliquus capitis inferior muscle, and pierces the complexus below the outer margin of the occipital origin of the trapezius. Its branches ramifying with those of the occipital artery supply the integument covering the upper part of the occipital and the posterior part of the parietal bone, and form connections externally with those of the small occipital nerve from the cervical plexus. The cutaneous branch of the third nerve, under the name of third or smallest occipital nerve, is directed upwards towards the occiput by the inner side of the great occipital nerve. On the deep surface of the complexus, small connecting twigs pass between the suboccipital nerve and the internal divisions of the second and third cervical nerves. The cutaneous branches of the fourth and fifth nerves are distributed to the integument of the back of the neck. The internal branches of the sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves are very small; they are distributed to the multifidus, semispinalis, com- plexus, and interspinales, and furnish, as a rule, no cutaneous twigs. The Posterior Divisions of the Thoracic Nerves. The internal branches (Fig. 377) supply the deeper muscles; the upper .six or seven, in addition, furnish cutaneous offsets, which pierce the trapezius close to the spines and ramify outwards over the back, that of the second, the largest of the series, reaching almost to the back of the shoulder. The externcd branches supply the erector spinae muscle. From the lower five or six, cutaneous twigs are detached; these pierce the latis- simus dorsi at a little distance from the middle line, and are chiefly directed outwards and downwards. The Posterior Divisions of the Lumbar Nerves. The interned branches are small, and supply the multifidus, the inter- spinales, and the internal intertransverse muscles. The external branches of the first three supply the erector spinae, and furnish cutaneous offsets which pierce the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi at the outer border of the erector spinae, immediately above the iliac crest, and are continued downwards in the subcutaneous tissue of the gluteal region, the lowest reaching as far as the level of the great trochanter. The externcd branch of the fourth is small and does not, as a rule, reach the surface, but terminates in the erector spinae. The external branch of the fifth descends to join that of the first sacral. The Posterior Divisions of the Sacral Nerves and the Coccygeal Nerve. The first four escape by the posterior sacral foramina; the fifth and the coccygeal make their exit from the lower extremity of the spinal canal.