THE SKELETON. 248 sphenoids) appear about the eighth week, and from them are ossified the great wings and the external pterygoid plates. Soon after, the nuclei of the small wings (orhitosphenoids) appear external to the optic nerves, and extend inwards embracing them, and these are followed by the nuclei of the postsphenoid. The postsphenoid nuclei rapidly unite, while the pre- sphenoid nuclei unite not only one with the other, but with the orhito- sphenoids. About the seventh month the postsphenoid and presphenoid become joined together, leaving for a while a cylindrical column of cartilage in the middle, descending from the sella turcica to the back part of the septal cartilage of the nose. The alisphenoids remain distinct from the body for a considerable time after birth; but already, in the fifth month of foetal life, have the separately ossified internal pterygoid plates adherent to them below the Vidian canals. The lingula has been found to have a separate centre of ossification (Sutton), and sometimes remains distinct through life (Debierre). The sphenoidal tur- binated bones, as already pointed out, constantly present in early life four centres each, which combine to form a pair of hollow cones. The temporal has its petro- mastoid and styloid centres origin- ating in cartilage, while its squamous and tympanic parts are ossified from membrane. The petrous begins to ossify in the fifth month from an elongated centre placed between the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda, and rapidly extending in a twisted form forwards round the cochlea and backwards round the vestibule. From this main centre there are subsequent laminar ex- tensions, one set of which forms the tegmen tympani, the roof of the internal auditory meatus, the tympanic wall of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and the bony flap cover- ing the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, while another forms the floor of the tympanum and stretches inwards to complete the carotid canal. Additional nuclei have been described in connection with the superior and posterior semicircular canals, but do not appear to be con- a Fig. 225.—Right Temporal at Birth, A, Squamous portion with adherent tympanic plate in the form of a thin ring almost surrounding the ex- ternal auditory meatus. B, Petro-mastoid separated from the squamous by breaking through the slight union, a, The mastoid process scarcely as yet pro- jecting ; h, surface for articulating with jugular pro- cess of occipital; c, stylomastoid foramen, and the groove from which emerged the as yet cartilaginous styloid process ; d, jugular fossa; e, cochleariform process ; /, fenestra rotunda ; g, fenestra ovalis ; h, opening in the pyramid for tendon of stapedius ; i, edge of contact of the mastoid with the squamous in front of the recess in continuity with which the mastoid cells are afterwards developed. A bent arrow indicates the carotid canal.