ARTICULATIONS OF THE AXIAL SKELETON. 125 their fibres are continuous from side to side. They are both relaxed when the head looks straight forwards, and both of them tightened when it is rotated to either side; hence they check too great rotation. The middle odontoid (improperly called suspensory) ligament consists of a small bundle of loose tissue, containing within it, in the young subject, the remains of the notochord, as it extends up to the occi- pital bone in front of the foramen magnum. It has no ligamentous function. The anterior occipito-atlantal and anterior atlanto-axial liga- ments or membranes are fibrous expansions uniting the anterior arch of the atlas with the front of the foramen magnum and the body of the axis respectively, and are strength- ened by the narrow mesial band by which the anterior common ligament commences. The ijosterior occipito-atlantal and posterior atlanto-axial liga- ments or membranes are very thin white-fibrous expansions uniting the posterior arch of the atlas with the back of the foramen magnum and the laminae of the axis. They take the place of ligamenta subflava. Fig. 133.—Articulations of Atlas, Axis and Occipital Bone seen from within the spinal canal after division of /, /, the long occipito-axial ligament, a, Transverse ligament of atlas ; h, c, superior and inferior appendages; d, d, cheek ligaments ; e, middle odontoid ligament; g, posterior common ligament; h, h, accessory ligaments of atlanto-axial articula- tions. The posterior gap is shown between the opposed articular surfaces of the atlas and axis. Fig. 134.—Articulations of Kibs with Vertebrae. A, View from above. B, View from behind. C, View from right side, a, Middle band of stellate or anterior costo- vertebral ligament ; a', a", superior and inferior bands of the same ; b, interarticular ligament; c, ligament of neck of rib or middle costo-transverse; d, costo-transverse articular cavity; e, posterior costo-transverse ligament; /, anterior or long costo-trans- verse ligament; g, anterior common ligament of the vertebral column. The thorax has its most complex arrangement of joints and ligaments at the hinder end of the costal arches; and the circumstance that there are synovial joints between the bodies of vertebrae and the heads of ribs,