THE FEMORAL ARTERY. the angle between the insertions of the adductors longus and magnus behind, and the vastus internus muscle externally. AVithin the canal the vein lies behind it, gradually passing to the outer side below, and the long or internal saphenous nerve is placed in front of it; the nerve to the vastus internus descends in front of the canal, a little external to and in front of the line of the artery. In the neighbourhood of the saphenous opening the femoral artery gives off a number of small superficial branches which supply the lymphatic glands of the groin and the skin and superficial fascia in the vicinity; they are— the superficial circumflex iliac, passing upwards and outwards; the superficial epigastric, passing upwards; and the upper and lower superficial pudic arteries, directed towards the pubic region and the scrotum;—each of these vessels anastomoses with the superficial branches of the correspondingly named deep trunk. A number of irregular muscular branches are given off at intervals. The most important branch is the deep femoral artery. Near the lower end of the stem the anastomotica magna is detached. The deep femoral artery (Fig. 346) springs from the femoral about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament; it is of considerable size and the portion of the femoral artery above its origin is, on that account, frequently named the "common femoral," and the portion below the "superficial femoral." It descends at first by the outer side of, and afterwards behind the parent trunk, from which it is separated by the femoral and deep femoral veins and the adductor longus muscle, and it rests successively upon the iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles, through the last mentioned of which it finally passes in the lower part of the middle third of the thigh, much reduced in size, as the last perfor- ating artery. It gives off the external and internal circumflex and the perforating branches. The external circumflex artery usually springs from the deep femoral artery near its commencement, but very frequently from the femoral itself. It passes outwards under cover of the rectus and sartorius muscles and breaks up into three sets of branches—(1) the ascending, which pass upwards under cover of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle to anastomose with branches of the gluteal artery; (2) the transverse, which sink into the substance of the crureus and vastus externus muscles and anastomose with the upper perforating arteries; and (3) the descending, which pass do^v'nwards upon the quadriceps muscle, supplying it, and anastomose with the lower per- forating arteries and the external articular branches of the popliteal. The interned circumflex artery usually springs from the commencement of the deep femoral, but, like its neighbour, it is frequently transferred to the main trunk. It passes backwards between the psoas and pectineus muscles, supplying the adductor muscles, anastomosing with the obturator artery, and giving off an articular branch which enters the joint through the cotyloid notch. It then divides into two branches (Fig 343), one of which, the ascending, passes upwards behind the hip-joint to anastom.ose at the upper