785 THE OVAKIES, UTERUS AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. whole thickness of the cortex, showing themselves at the peritoneal surface, and reaching to a sixth of an inch in diameter. Sometimes also there is seen a yellow body, corpus luteum, or a large Graafian vesicle filled with blood-clot, or a corpus luteum with blood-clot in the centre; the explanation being that one or more Graafian vesicles burst at each menstrual period, liberating the contained ovum and becoming filled with blood, and that, as the clot disappears, a yellow structure is developed in the surrounding wall, increasing for a number of days and afterwards disappearing, except when pregnancy takes place, in which case it becomes larger and persists for a number of months. The ovum is a spherical body, measuring in a full-sized Graafian vesicle in the human subject xio^^ i^^^^ diameter, and presents a clear wall, the zona pellucida, surrounding the granular vitelhis or yelk, in the interior of which is a clear spherical germinal vesicle about g-Joth inch in diameter. Fig. 613.—Human Ovum within Graafian vesicle, a, Germinal vesicle and spot; h, vitellus or yelk; c, zona pellucida; d, discus proligerus; e, membrana granulosa; /, vascular wall of ovisac; g, stroma of ovary ; h, surface of ovary. inclined toward the superficial side and containing a granular body, the germinal spot. Around the ovum is a heap of small corpuscles, the discus proligerus, which adheres to the inside of the Graafian vesicle at the part nearest to the peri- toneum, and is continuous with corpuscles of the same kind lining the whole vesicle, the tunica gramdosa. In the wall of the Graafian vesicle two layers are distinguished, an outer or fibrous layer continuous with the stroma, and an inner or vascular layer named the ovisac. It is in the ovisac that the development of cells loaded with oil globules, giving character to the corpus luteum, takes place after bursting of the vesicle. In smaller Graafian vesicles than those visible to the naked eye, the ovum occupies the middle of the Graafian vesicle and the germinal vesicle the middle of the ovum, and one mass of corpuscles fills the cavity of the Graafian vesicle around the ovum. The Graafian vesicles get smaller toward the surface of the cortex by diminution of the number of lining corpuscles much more than by diminution of the ovum, and the smallest ova have only a few corpuscles round them. The peritoneum on the surface of the ovary is covered not with the delicate epithelium or endothelium found on the peritoneum elsewhere, but with minute columnar epithelium, the remaining portion of the germinal epithelium (p. 97) from which the ova and probably the cells around them are derived, most of them in foetal life. Thus it appears that the ova, beginning on the peritoneal surface as elements of the germinal epithelium, travel in through the stroma of the ovary till they reach the deep limit of the cortex, where the vascularity is favourable to the develop- ment of the ovisac, and that afterwards the expansion of the Graafian vesicle 3 D