577 DURA MATER. the most part continuously, with the opposed free surface of the arachnoid, which has likewise an endothelium. The space between dura mater and arachnoid, formerly known as the arachnoid space, is now usually termed subdural. The dura mater of the cord forms a loose sheath, which extends some way into the sacrum. It is separated by loose connective and adipose tissue, as well as by veins, from the periosteal and ligamentous walls of the canal, but is kept in position by bands of fibres which pass dowmvards from its anterior surface to be attached to the posterior common ligament over the bodies of lumbar and sacral vertebrae. The anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves pierce it near the intervertebral foramina by which they respectively emerge, and its fibres are continued on them and mingle with their bundles; but on its deep side the anterior and posterior roots of each nerve disappear by two openings, separated one from the other by a fibrous band. The dura mater within the cranium differs from that in the spinal canal in being adherent to the bone, and performing at once the offices of fibrous covering to the brain and of periosteum to the inner table of the skull. It sends inwards three septa—the tentorium cerebelli, the falx cerebri and the falx cerebelli. The tentorium cerebelli is projected between the cerebellum and the posterior lobes of the cerebral hemispheres. Its attachment extends from 2 Fig. 417.—Tkntokium Cerebelli and Falx Cerebri. 1, Entrance of great vein of Galen into the straight sinus; 2, free margin of tentorium : 3, falx cerebri; 4, left side of tentorium. (Luschka.) the internal occipital protuberance, along by the groove for the lateral sinus, and thence by the posterior and upper border of the petrous i)art both in the spinal part and on the sides of the falx cerebri. It is also to be remembered that it has long been recognised that in the neighbourhood of the base of the falx very small accumulations of delicate tissue can be seen beneath the deep surface. These circumstances, together with the early condition found by me in cases of com- plete open spinal bifida (Jour. Anat. and Phys., 1883), favour the old view that a parietal arachnoid adheres to the dura mater. 2 O