842 THE MUSCLES. digastric muscles. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, lying along the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, lies between the external and internal arteries. The lingual nerve is placed further forwards on the deep surface of the ramus; it does not come into relation with either vessel, but crosses the stylo-glossus muscle. Further forwards, in the region underneath the body of the lower jaw, the submaxillary salivary gland lies on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle in the submaxillary triangle, the region marked off by the anterior belly of the digastric, the stylo- hyoid, and the border of the inferior maxilla; its duct turns round the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid and passes across the muscles of the tongue to reach the floor of the mouth. Besides the duct and the three nerves already mentioned, the lingual artery and veins cross the sublingual muscles. On the deep surface of the mylo-hyoid and upon the hyo-glossus lie, in order from below upwards, the ranine vein, the hypoglossal nerve, the duct of the gland (Wharton's duct), and the lingual nerve; on the deep surface of the hyo-glossus and upon the genio-glossus lie, in the same order, the lingual artery and its venae comites and the glosso- pharyngeal nerve. The sublingual salivary gland lies upon the anterior part of the genio-glossus, under cover of the mucous membrane of the mouth, and rests below on the mylo-hyoid. MUSCLES ATTACHED TO THE RAMUS OF THE JAW. Four muscles are on each side attached to the ramus of the jaw or its processes, and play an important part in the process of mastication, in which they are assisted by the muscles of the tongue, lips, and cheeks. The masseter, strong and four-sided, springs from the zygomatic arch, and is inserted into the outer surface of the ramus and coronoid process of the lower jaw. It is formed of three sets of fibres, differing from one another in direction. The largest and most superficial portion passes downwards and backwards. It springs from the lower border of the anterior two-thirds of the arch by a strong tendon which sends septa among the muscular fibres; it is inserted into the lower half of the ramus. The second portion, the fibres of which pass directly downwards, springs from the inner surface of the anterior two-thirds and the lower border of the posterior third of the arch, and is inserted into the upper portion of the ramus ; except at its posterior and upper angle, it is overlapped by the first part. The third portion, the fibres of which are directed down- wards and forwards, springs from the inner surface of the posterior third of the arch, and is inserted into the outer surface of the coronoid process; it is completely overlapped by the second part. The third portion is easily separable from the second, but has usually been described along with it. The temporal muscle, flat and fan-shaped, springs from the whole surface of the temporal fossa, with the exception of the portion formed by the malar bone, and from the overlying temporal fascia, except at its lower part. The muscular fibres converge, the anterior descending almost