THE INTESTINE. 721 The villi are longest in the duodenum and upper part of the jejunum, where they may reach to the thirty-sixth of an inch in length, and are placed exceedingly closely; and they become shorter and sparser till at the lower part of the ileum they are no longer than broad and are scattered distinctly one from another. They are liable to considerable variation in different subjects, being, in the jejunum, sometimes filiform and sometimes flattened and connected. In many animals they are longer, narrower and covered with larger epithelial cells than in man. That the epithelial cells of the villi are actually prolonged into processes in continuity with branched corpuscles more deeply placed may be questioned, although there is high authority for the allegation, but there can be no doubt that the molecular substance which they take in from the chyme is passed on from them into the lymphatic radicles. One or more such radicles run down the centre of each villus and begin as an unwalled space, which may be clavately enlarged; while the bloodvessels are arranged in a single layer at the circumference. Fig. 555.- natural size. -Two Peyer's Patcbes Fig. 550.—Section of Duodenum. a, Villi ; b, Lieberkiiliii's follicles ; c, a Brunner's gland; d, muscular wall. The glands which take part in the structure of the mucous membrane are the crypts or follicles of LieberhUhn, simple tubes passing straight from the surface down to the muscularis mucosae, lined throughout with columnar epithelium. But in the duodenum there is a special set of glands called Brunner's glands not found in the rest of the intestine. These are small acinated glands, barely visible with the naked eye, lying in numbers in the submucous tissue, immediately underneath the muscularis mucosae, which is pierced by the single duct of each. Closed follicles or lymphatic nodules, distinguished as solitan/ glands, are scattered in the mucous membrane of the whole small intestine. Others are gathered together in groups, and are termed agminated glands or Pei/er's 2 z