100 GENERAL ANATOMY. O :1| it f in a ventral direction; and on this line the limbs appear as two lobes with dorsal and ventral surfaces, their edges directed towards the cephalic and caudal ends of the embryo. The division into digits is soon indicated by four depressions, the thumb and great toe being the digits nearest the head. The hand and foot are both at first sessile, the elongated part of the limb being later of making its appearance. I would further observe that the elbow is from the first directed away from the head, while the knee is primarily directed outwards and acquires its later posi- tion by the rotation which turns the sole of the foot towards the ground. ^ Commencement of vascular system. In birds and mammals, as shown by Kolliker, the earliest condition of the heart is in the form of two sym- metrically placed tubes at the sides of the head, already begun in the rabbit to appear Avhile yet there are only two mesoblastic somites developed. These primitive hearts lie in the deeper layer of the meso- blast of the lateral zone, their hinder ends diverging into the area pellucida. By the folding of the layers of the embryo, they soon meet together on the ventral aspect of the fore-gut ta '■i'.l'l:! iSilil, Fig. 106.—Embryo Rabbit of 8 Days and 14 Hours, a, Area pellucida; h, anterior bounding fold; c, axial zone; c/, peripheral zone ; e, medullary fold ; /, mesoblastic somites; g, h and i, hinder, mid and fore brain ; k, primary optic vesicle; /, ventricle of heart; m, vena ornphalomesenterica ; n, aortic extremity of heart ; o, parietal space around the heart; jj, wall of throat dimly visible. (KOlUker.) form a single tube, which was long supposed to be the primitive condition, and actually is so in elasmobranch ^Although, in elasmobranch fishes, Balfour has shown that muscle-plates are pro- longed into the origin of the pectoral fin, it can scarcely be considered as ascertained that the proper limb-muscles are derived from them; and, according to Paterson, the limbs of birds and mannnals receive no prolongations from the muscle-plates. Adult anatomy tells us that the nerves of the limbs are derived from ventral divisions, and that, while, in the upper limbs, they come from five spinal nerves, they assuredly belong to a larger number in the lower limbs. The skeleton of the limb (clavicle excepted) probably always starts from the base of the free part, and extends from this outwards into the free part, and dorsally and ventrally within the wall of the trunk to form the limb-girdle. These various considerations, together with the want of correspondence of mesial fin-rays of fishes with vertebral segments, are sufficient of themselves to excite suspicion that the doctrine that the limbs are developments, belonging to special segments of the trunk is without just foundation.