THE KIDNEYS. 763 quarters of an inch in vertical diameter, and as it escapes at the hihis turns downwards and narrows to the ureter. The renal substance is made up of closely set tubuli uriniferi, which, together with the vessels supplying them, are bound firmly together by tissue so small in amount that the tubes seem in close contact ; and though there are copious lympliatic channels between them, it is only by such means as maceration in muriatic acid that they can be separated to any considerable extent. To the patho- logist this connective substance is important as the seat of scirrhosis. The tuhidi uriniferi begin in the cortical substance, each in a Malpighian corpuscle, and are in the first part of their course convoluted (tubuli contorti), in the latter part straight {tubuli recti), the convoluted part being confined to the cortex, and the straight part being principally in the medulla; but between the portions pro- perly so-called are interposed two other parts, the loop of Henle, plunging with straight limbs far into the medulla, and the intercalary tube in the cortex. The Malpighian corpuscle consists of a spherical wall called capsule of Bowman, from which on one side the convoluted tubule commences abruptly, while at an exactly opposite point two small blood- vessels, the afferent and the efferent artenj, pierce it and are continuous with a bunch of small bloodvessels, the glomerulus, which fills in great measure its interior. In the glomerulus the afferent artery breaks up rapidly into convoluted branches which keep to the circumference of the globe and then turn towards the centre in loops to join together to form the efferent artery; and by this means the more the blood enters the glomerulus the more its circumference is ex- panded so as to leave room for the return current in the middle (Ludwig). A fine mem- FiG. 598.—Diagram of Tubuli Urini- feri. li, Cortical part; Or, intermediate zone ; M, medullarj' part; 1, Malpighian corpuscles; 2, convoluted tubules; 3, Henle's loops; a, desc reascending limb ; c, iiiti 4, straight tubules ; >l, ju e, smaller collectiiij tul collecting tubules ; (Schweiger-Seidel.) ry lul.ule; III tubules; ; larger y opening. brane, continuous with the capsule of Bowman, is reflected over the glomerulus from the neck at which the afferent and efferent arteries enter and emerge, and the opposed surfaces of this membrane and the capsule of Bowman are lined each with a single layer of fine squamous epithelium, the cells of the capsular layer larger than those of the glomerular layer.