ABSOEBENT SYSTEM. 67 Lymphatic glands. These structures, called also lymphatic ganglia, (onglobafe glands and lymphatic kernels, are essentially masses of retiform or adenoid tissue interpolated in the course of lymphatic vessels. They vary from the minuteness of a pinhead to three quarters of an inch in length, and more than half an inch in greatest breadth, and in an irritated or inflamed .condition may attain much larger dimensions. They are sur- rounded by fibrous capsules, which are most separable in young subjects, but connected in all both with the connective tissue around and with trabeculae passing inwards. They present, on section, a uniform appear- ance to the naked eye. They receive afferent lymphatic trunks, which travel some distance in contact with the capsule and divide into smaller vessels before dipping in at different parts of the surface; and at one part there is usually a depres- sion or hilus where arteries enter, and veins and efferent lymphatics emerge; the eff'erent lym- phatics gathering immedi- ately into larger trunks. On examination under the microscope, two sets of structures are seen, trabe- cular stroma and cor- puscles. The trabeculae are white fibrous bundles, continued in from the capsule, and form a mesh- work whose bands get finer while the meshes get smaller from the sur- face towards the centre of the gland. Scattered muscular fibres have been found in them, and, in various animals, continuous muscular bands. AA ithin the undisturbed meshes of this network the whole space seems filled with minute leucocytes, but when a number of them have been washed away, or when the section has been stretched, there is left a mass of such leucocytes or lymph-corpuscles closely adherent to one another, and a reticulum of branched corpuscles separating it from the trabeculae. The corpuscles of a lymphatic gland are thus of two kinds, the lymph- corpuscles and the branched corpuscles. The coherent mass of lymph- corpuscles presents, in the centre of the gland and opposite the hilus, the form of a network of cords or cylinders interarching with a I n;, tik—.>hcMi).\ oK lli\MAX l.v.Mi'llA I ii (iLAM>, highly Miagiii- fied, showing the crowded corpuscles of the medullary cylinders and the retiform tissue of the lymph-paths with its branched corpuscles.