496 THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. which it returns to the right auricle of the heart b}^ the superior vena cava. The blood from the superior vena cava passes through the right auricle into the right ventricle, and from thence is carried by the pul- monary arteries in small quantity to the unexpanded lungs, but in much greater quantity through the ductus arteriosus, the still patent fifth left arterial arch, to the dorsal aorta. A part of the blood within the dorsal aorta supplies the lower part of the trunk and the lower limbs, returning by the cardinal veins and the inferior cava; but the larger part, entering the internal iliac arteries, is carried by the right and left hypogastric arteries, to the placenta. When the lungs become expanded, after the first few respirations, the pulmonary arteries rapidly dilate and draw off a large portion of the blood which, returning by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle, tends to close the valve of the foramen ovale. Subsequently the valve becomes completely closed. Instances of incomplete closure are, however, not uncommon, but the resulting passage between the auricles is usually small; when a con- siderable opening remains, the venous blood mixing with the arterial blood produces a cyanotic condition. The ductus arteriosus and the hypogastric arteries rapidly shrink and become, in two or three days, obliterated, and the ductus venosus and umbilical vein, a few days later, likewise become impervious. During foetal life there is not the same disproportion in thickness between the walls of the right and left ventricles, as is the case in the adult, owing, doubtless, to the fact that the resistance which each chamber has to overcome is, while the ductus arteriosus is still patent, about the same. THE LYMPHATICS. The lymphatic vessels or absorbents take up the lymph from the tissues; those of the intestine also take up the chyle and receive the special name of lacteals. The majority open into lymphatic glands; from the glands others pass onwards, and ultimately the contents of all are discharged into the venous system by the thoracic duct and the right lymphatic duct. The thoracic duct opens into the commencement of the left innominate vein; it carries the chyle, and the lymph from both lower limbs, the whole of the abdomen with the exception of a small portion of the upper surface of the liver, the whole of the left side and a portion of the right side of the thorax, the left upper limb, and the left side of the head and neck. The right lymphatic duct opens into the com- mencement of the right innominate vein; it carries the lymph from a small portion of the upper surface of the liver, the greater part of the right side of the thorax, the right upper limb, and the right side of the head and neck.