THE MUSCLES. 346 behind the oblique line. On their way to the central raphe the lower fibres are almost horizontal, while the more superior ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity. The middle constrictor arises from the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone and the extremity of the stylo-hyoid ligament. The middle fibres are horizontal; the superior ascend, and the inferior descend, with considerable obliquity. The superior constrictor arises by slips attached in series from below upwards to the side of the tongue and mucous membrane of the mouth, the extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the inferior maxilla, the pterygo- id mpanic plate Tensor palati Mastoid proces> D, External auditory meatus G, Styloid process Stylo-pliaryngeus Stylo-lij-oideus alter and ^ stylo-hyoid ligament ) Middle constrictui Inferior constrictor A, Zygomatic process F, External pterygoid plate 11, Levator palati 4, Aponeurosis of pharynx E, Superior maxilla Plerygo-maxillary ligament .Buccinator ], Superior constrictor 7, Stylo-glossus Inferior maxilla 8, Hyo-glossus Thyroid cartilage Crico-thyroid Trachea Oesophagus. Fig. 278,—The Wall of the Pharynx. (L. Testut.) maxillary ligament, and the lower part of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate. The fibres are mostly horizontal, but the upper and lower slightly diverge. The tonsil lies on its inner surface. It is united to the buccinator by the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Nerves. The constrictors are supplied through the pharyngeal plexus, probably from the bulbar portion of the spinal accessory nerve; the inferior constrictor, in addition, receives branches from the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves. Actions. The muscles contract from above downwards. In deglutition the lower part of the pharynx is raised ; the superior constrictor and the upper part of the middle constrictor assist in shutting off the nasal passages; the lower part of the middle constrictor and the inferior con- strictor narrow the lateral diameter of the pharynx.