THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 458 is secured through an incision very similar to, but not so extensive as that required for either of the other two vessels. It is made a little above Poupart's ligament and is slightly bent upwards at its outer end. On account of the presence of the large branches below, the ligature is applied about an inch and a quarter above Poupart's ligament. The spot at which the gluteal artery escapes from the pelvis is opposite the lower end of the upper third of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the top of the great trochanter, the thigh being rotated inwards. The sciatic and ;pudic arteries escape from the pelvis at a spot which is opposite the upper end of the lower third of a line drawn from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the tuberosity of the ischium. These vessels may be ligatured at the spots indicated, but, as they lie very deeply, the operation in each case is difficult and demands a free incision. The left pudic artery, in the wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, may be injured by the knife, should the point be turned too much back- wards, at the close of the first incision in the operation of lateral lithotomy. The artery of the bulb, when arising further back than usual, will probably be cut in the same incision, and may require ligature. The Femoral Artery. The femoral artery (Fig. 346), the continuation of the external iliac, enters the thigh, from under Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine and the symphysis pubis. It descends through the upper two- thirds of the thigh as far as the margin of the opening in the insertion of the adductor magnus muscle, through which, as the popliteal artery, the trunk is continued to the back of the limb. It is at first placed in front of the head of the femur, then, owing to the inclination of the neck, lies at some little distance from the bone; still lower it descends by the inner side of the shaft. In the upper third of the thigh it lies in Scarpa's triangle; in the remainder of its course it occupies Hunter's canal. In Scarpa's triangle it rests successively upon the psoas, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor longus muscles and is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the fascia. At first the vein is internal to it, but lower down gradually passes behind it; the deep femoral vein is likewise at the lower part placed behind it; occasionally a large tributary of the internal saphenous vein ascends in the superficial fascia in front of the lower part of this portion of the artery. The anterior crural nerve lies external to it in its upper part, and, a little below Poupart's ligament, breaks up into its terminal branches, of which the internal cutaneous nerve descends in front of the artery, gradually crossing it, while the internal saphenous and the nerve to the vastus internus pass downwards by its outer side. At the apex of Scarpa's triangle the artery passes under cover of the sartorius muscle and enters Hunter's canal; in this portion of its course it is covered in front and internally by the sartorius and, bound down by aponeurotic fibres, rests in