THE SCAPULA. 137 the trapezius muscle, while the lower border of the spine, together with the outer edge of the acromion, gives origin to the deltoid muscle. The head is the thickest part and supports a slightly concave articular surface called the glenoid cavity. This surface is pyriform, with the upper end narrow and inclined forwards so as to leave a notch in front. It fits the spherical curve of the head of the humerus, and is bevelled round the margin, giving attachment to the glenoid ligament which surrounds it. It is surmounted by a little tubercle from which the long head of the biceps muscle arises. The coracoid process ascends vertically at its base from between the head and the suprascapular notch, but soon bends abruptly forwards with an outward inclination and a slight downward curve, projecting from under the outer end of the clavicle. On the posterior half of its upper surface is a thick tuberosity, giving attachment to the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, while from the margin of the tip spring the short head of the biceps muscle and the coraco-brachialis by a common origin, and more internally the tendon of the pectoralis minor muscle. The coracoid process, though only a portion of the scapula in the human subject, and reduced to much smaller proportions in many mammals, is the representative of a distinct element of the shoulder- girdle in monotremata and non-mammalian vertebrata. The term neck is sometimes given to the constriction passing beneath the head and through the suprascapular notch, separating the head and the coracoid process from the rest of the bone. The neck is much more elongated and obvious in many mammals than in man. The Humerus. The humerus or arm-bone is thick and rounded above, slenderer below the middle, and flattened out distally into an external and internal epicondyle, surmounting the inferior articular extremity which is curved slightly forwards. The upper extremity presents a head for articulation with the glenoid fossa of the scapula. This is large and rounded, forming less than a hemisphere, but, when coated with cartilage, accurately spherical in curve, except close to the margin below, where a narrow crescentic addition would be required. It looks upwards, inwards, and a little backwards, when the line joining the epicondyles is placed transversely. Immediately outside the head is the great tuberosity, in front the smcdl tuberosity, and between the tuberosities the bicipital groove. The circle of depression round the head, passing between it and the tuberosities, is distinguished as the anatomical neck, while the part below the level of the tuberosities, where the upper extremity narrows to the shaft, is called the surgical neck, and is a frequent site of fracture. The great tuberosity is continued up from the shaft, bulging slightly outwards : it presents a facet looking upwards which gives attachment to the supraspinatus muscle; another, behind it,