THE BRAIN. 636 of a narrower tube bent over on itself. In the process of bending, however, in this region, the optic commissure is carried with the optic thalami downwards, which gives a seeming justification to the generally- received view that optic tracts, optic commissure, and primary optic vesicles belong to quite a different part of the brain from the corpora quadrigemina. However, it will be noted, both in the chick and in His's figure of the human brain of four and a half weeks, that the anterior or upper border of the optic tract is marked out by a deep depression. Fig. 466.—From Foetus of Four Months, a, Corpus striatum; b, optic thalamus ; c, corpora quadrigemina; d, cerebellum; e, stria terminalis; /, ex- ternal geniculate body ; g, flocculus ; h, ligule ; i, olivary body ; k; cuneus. Fig. 467.—Brain of Human Em- bryo OF 4^ Weeks. Profile view, a, Peduncle of flocculus ; b, cerebellum ; c, corpora quadrigemina; d, optic thalamus ; e, pineal body ; /', hemi- sphere ; g, h, anterior and posterior olfactory lobes; i, optic nerve ; hypophyseal pouch. (After His.) The first cerebral vesicle, apart from the primary optic vesicles, is the source of the region of the third ventricle, thalamencephalon and hemisphere- vesicles, together called fore brain or prosencephalon, and of the olfactory bulbs or rhinencephalon. The hemisphere-vesicles, beginning as a pair of projections from the extremity of the undivided thalamencephalon, sprout forwards, and are then directed upwards and backwards over it, so that in a foetus of twelve weeks (Fig. 428) they not only cover it dorsally and laterally, but overhang the corpora quadrigemina. The corpus striatum, together with the insula, is a development of the ventral root-part of the hemisphere-vesicle. The original neck of communication between the hemisphere-vesicle and the thalamencephalon is ^called primitive foramen of Monro, and is identical with the foramen of Monro in the adult. Back- wards from it, in consequence of the great growth of communicating substance between optic thalamus and corpus striatum, there is a change of form which ultimately simulates adhesion of the two structures, but it may be noted that in a foetus of four months there is a very deep cleft between optic thalamus and corpus striatum. Above this, on a line back from the foramen of Monro, there is a tract of non-development of neural elements on the dorsal and posterior aspects of the neck of the hemisphere-