ARTICULATIONS. 37 broader than those of the capillaries and the subjacent tissues. Near the articular surfaces an apparent continuity can be seen between cartilage- corpuscles and a stratum of scattered corpuscles on the surface of the membrane, presenting long and dividing branches, as also continuity with the oval nuclei mentioned. In many joints there are portions of the synovial membrane, of variable extent, more spongy and vascular than the rest, elevated into folds and pads by subjacent adipose tissue, and filling up gaps and recesses. These were described by Havers as glandulae mucilaginosae, and are commonly spoken of as Haversian glands. Especially in places where the synovial membrane is thrown into projecting or receding folds, there occur thread-like and clavate projections or villi, both simple and branched, just visible to the naked eye, and sometimes containing encysted corpuscles, important as the source of loose cartilages well known Fibro-plates, usually described under the head of fibro-cartilages, occur in certain of the complete joints, and are tough, generally biconcave structures intervening Fio. 34. — Synovial Membrane. A, loose cartilage, demanding removal. B, Silver preparation of synovial membrane close to the head of a metacarpal bone, showing flattened corpuscles sending out long branching processes and in series with cartilage-corpuscles, as well as with the oval nuclei represented in the upper border of the sketch. Synovial villi projecting from free edge of between the opposed articular cartilages, semilunar plate of the knee joint. One . ^ of them presents such a cluster of cor- mtrudmg free surfaces between them, and puscles, in a clavate extremity, as some- . ^ 1/21 times is inclosed in chondi iniferous matrix attached peripherally to the nbrOUS SUr- and becomes the commencement of a roundings. They may form imperforate discs, separating the cartilages completely, and thus lie between two distinct synovial cavities, as in the temporo-maxillary arti- culation ; or may have the shape of a meniscus, only partially separating them, as in the knee joint; or they may be variable, sometimes perforated, sometimes not, as in the sterno-clavicular articulation. They consist of closely felted white fibrous tissue with no separable synovial membrane, but with oval nuclei discernible towards their surfaces, and with fringes of synovial villi at their edges and in their vicinity. The development of complete joints is noteworthy in connection with the relation which incomplete joints bear to them. At an early period many parts of the skeleton are more massed together than afterwards, being as yet undifferentiated. Thus the bones of each limb form one continuous cartilage, and thus also each cartilaginous vertebra is con- tinuous at each side with rib and sternum. The articulations which