309 MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. separates the extensor digitorum longus and peroneus tertius from the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis. Above the ankle the different muscles of the group narrow to tendons, that of the long extensor of the toes subdividing into four, which pass behind the anterior annular ligament to reach the dorsum of the foot. In passing behind the ligament the tendons maintain their relative positions to one another, and the two more internal are contained each in a special compartment, and those of the long extensor of the toes and peroneus tertius in a fibrous loop which forms the outer part of the ligament. The fibrous sheaths are lined by synovial membranes which are reflected upwards and downwards for a little distance upon the tendons. On the dorsum of the foot the tendons lie in a plane superficial to the short extensor of the toes; the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius pass to the inner and outer sides respectively, the others are continued forwards to the extremities of the toes. The anterior tibial artery is covered by the fleshy part of the tibialis anticus, and is crossed in the vicinity of the ankle by the tendon of the extensor hallucis longus. The anterior tibial nerve, which accompanies the artery, supplies all the muscles of the group. The tibialis anticus (tibialis anterior) arises from the upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the tibia extending to the base of the outer tuberosity, and from a narrow area of the adjoining interosseous mem- brane ; fibres also spring from the investing fascia and the short septum on the outer side of the muscle. The area of origin from the bone is much broader above than below, where it narrows to a line close to the inter- osseous membrane. It is inserted into the anterior and inner part of the base of the internal cuneiform bone and the adjoining ridge of the first metatarsal bone. Its tendon becomes free from muscular fibres in the lower third of the leg; near its insertion it is somewhat expanded, and a small bursa lies beneath it. The extensor hallucis longus, a very narrow muscle, is somewhat obliquely placed at its origin. It springs from the middle third of the anterior portion of the inner surface of the fibula and the adjacent inter- osseous membrane, and below in the upper part of the lower third of the leg from the interosseous membrane alone. Its tendon forms on its anterior margin, and becomes free about the level of the ankle. It is inserted after giving off lateral expansions which cover the first metatarso phalangeal joint into the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanx of the great toe at its base. The extensor digitorum pedis longus has an exceedingly narrow origin which extends along the upper two-thirds of the anterior portion of the inner surface of the fibula, and reaches upwards in front of the head of the bone to the external tuberosity of the tibia; in addition, many of its fibres spring from the intermuscular septum on its outer side, and a few from the short septum on its inner side; others spring from the upper part of the interosseous membrane. The tendon forms on the anterior