667 DEVELOPMENT OF THE EYE. into the brain-cavity applied to the pigmented epithelium. The bacillary layer is late in developing, and is thought to proceed from the outer nuclear layer, which perfectly accords with the view that each rod or cone is part of the same corpuscle as the structure connected with it below the external limiting membrane. The lens becomes solid by the elongation of the cells lining the hinder half of its capsule, till they press against those of the anterior half, which remain permanently as epithelium. For a considerable time it occupies a large part of the cavity of the eye, is nearly spherical, and in close contact with the cornea which has intruded between it and the superficial epithelium. At the same time the retina is proportionally thick and the vitreous body small in amount. The fibres in the centre are long, and the new fibres are added at the circumference; and in antero-posterior sections the nuclei of the fibres form a broad belt with a convexity forwards, which is at first near the back, but afterwards toward the front. The capsule of the lens receives an artery, the hyaloid branch of the central artery of the retina, which extends from the optic pore to the middle of the posterior surface, and is connected with the tunica vasculosa at the circumference, whence vessels converge in front. In later development the whole eye expands, increasing the cavity behind the lens and forming the anterior chamber in front, while the connection between capsule of lens and tunica vasculosa stretches out as the iris. In the centre of the iris, the fore part of the vascular capsule of the lens, being continuous with it, occludes the future pupil, and is often called membrana jnqnllaris. These vascular arrange- ments disappear in the human foetus before birth, but in some animals—as in the kitten—persist for a short time after. The eyelids make their first appearance in the third month of foetal life. They afterwards become united together by cohesion of the epithelium on their edges, which continues till shortly before birth. The lachrymal ducts correspond in position with the lines of junction of the maxillary lobes and lateral nasal processes. They are originally superficial, and become deeper by the growth forwards of surrounding parts. THE EAR. The ear consists of three parts, called the external, middle and internal ear ; the external and middle ear being separated one from the other by the membrana tymjpani and both of them filled with air, while the internal ear, which contains the whole distribution of the auditory nerve, is filled with fluid. The External Ear. The external ear consists of the expanded part or pinna, and the tube leading down to the membrana tympani, the external auditory meatus. The cup of the pinna is called the concha, the pendent part is the lobule^