THE AETERIES OF THE BRAIN. 425 frontal lobe; (3) the parietal supplies the anterior and upper parts of the parietal lobe; (4) the parieto-femporal, often double, the largest and most posterior, supplies the lower and posterior parts of the parietal lobe and sends branches downwards upon the first and second temporal convolutions. The posterior cerebral artery, arising from the termination of the basilar artery at the anterior border of the pons, passes at first outwards across the crus in front of the third nerve, then turns upwards and backwards round the crus, and terminates on the under and inner surface of the hemisphere. As it is turning backwards it receives the posterior communicating artery. Its deep branches form (a) the postero-median and postero-lateral groups: the vessels belonging to the former, five or six in number, pass through the posterior perforated spot to supply the optic thalamus and the inner part of the crus; those belonging to the latter, two or three in number, pass up- wards by the outer side of the crus to the optic thalamus and to the corpora quadrigemina; {h) some slender branches to the crus are detached as the main trunk lies on it. The superficial branches are—(1) the posterior choroid arteries, which supply the choroid plexuses and velum interpositum; (2) the anterior temporal which supplies the anterior part of the inner surface of the temporal lobe; (3) the posterior temporcd which supplies the lower part of the outer surface, and the posterior part of the inner surface of the temporal lobe; (4) the occipitcd which supplies both surfaces of the occipital lobe. Surgical anatomy of the common carotid artery and its branches. The course of the common carotid in the neck may be marked on the surface, by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The vessel bifurcates opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. It is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra, opposite the cricoid cartilage; below the crossing it is deeply placed, being covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle; above, it is com- paratively superficial, being only overlapped by the anterior border of the muscle. The artery is reached through an incision made along its course, the centre being on a level with the cricoid cartilage. The head must be supported and the chin drawn upwards, and, in order to prevent the edge of the sterno-mastoid from being drawn com- pletely over the vessel, only slightly turned to the opposite side from that on which the operation is to be performed. A descending branch from the facial vein may be met with at the anterior border of the sterno mastoid. The sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid are to be clearly defined and drawn apart, and the sheath of the vessels exposed. On the surface of the sheath the superior thyroid veins, the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery, and the descendens hypoglossi nerve will probably be encountered. The sheath is to be opened over the artery, which is to be carefully separated from the walls. The hook is passed