64 GENERAL AXATOMY. Development of bloodvessels. As all vessels originate from simple beginnings, and as the muscular, white-fibrous and yellow-elastic tissues are developed in the walls of the larger vessels exactly as in the other situations, the question left to consider is the origin of capillaries. The first walls of bloodvessels, both in the area vasculosa of the embryo and in textures developing later, may be said to be of the nature of a cell- wall. In the area vasculosa branched corpuscles undergo proliferation, and when the centrally placed progeny are developed into blood-corpuscles those round about are flattened against the cell-wall. Other similar corpuscles are connected by branches with the wall of the first, and the channel of communication enlarges so as to make one continuous hollow. Other unwallecl corpuscles become connected in series, and flatten out at the same time that they throw out a continuous tubular wall, on the interior of which the series is arranged. There may be difiiculties to explain in con- nection with the details of this process, ^fe'-^r-^:^ but it is impossible to admit the accuracy of the descriptions which account for the formation of the vessels by the coming together of vacuoles or cavities hollowed in the interior of the proto- plasm of corpuscles. The outer layer of the amnion in young mammalian embryos admits of easy staining, and is highly favourable for the studying of developing vessels. In it one may observe that new A'essels are formed from the unwalled corpuscles of the tissue in the way described, and that when the form of > the capillary is completed it exhibits a ^ series of distinct flattened corpuscles, FIG. 61.-FORMATION OF CAPILLARIES from first eudothelial scales, with spaces connective - tissue - corpuscles round the ijgtween them and a perfectly continuous amnion of an embryo lamb, one men long. J- •/ homogeneous wall outside, against which other corpuscles may press. The advancing extremity of a vessel in pro- gress of formation is sometimes widely open, as for instance in the cases of the new vessels underneath surfaces of ossification from cartilage. ABSORBENT SYSTEM. Under this name are comjorehendecl a system of vessels and spaces by means of Avhich substance is poured directly into the great veins to be mingled with the blood and, connected with those vessels, solid structures called lymphatic glands. The absorbent vessels are divisible physiologically into two sets, lymphatics and ladeals; but there is no anatomical distinction between the