759 THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. the medullary part. Within this stroma is inclosed the essential structure, consisting of nucleated corpuscles averaging y^Vo^h inch in diameter. These are arranged in the greater part of the depth in intercommunicating columns y^o^^ inch wide (zona fasciculata), continued superficially into I irregular masses (zona glomerulosa), and at their deep extremities into a I close network (zona reticularis). The medullary part receives the vessels and nerves which penetrate from the cortical structure, and while the vessels are gathered within it into venous trunks the nerves form a plexus. It also contains numbers of granular nucleated corpuscles connected one with another, but further observation is required to decide the detailed connec- tions of the nerves and the relations of the medullary corpuscles to them. The development of the suprarenal capsules is but imperfectly under- stood, but is alleged to be partly in connection with the solar plexus and I partly from another origin. It is noteworthy that at an early period they are of a deep crimson tint very different from nervous structures, and only acquire their lighter colour afterwards. ARTERIAL GLOMERULI. Under this name may be mentioned some unimportant structures of small size, consisting mainly of convoluted and ramifying arterioles in 1 minute clusters and of unknown history and function. They are : (1) the intercarotid ganglion, about quarter of an inch long, or broken into smaller nodules, between the external and internal carotid artery; (2) the coccygeal [ gland (Luschka), of the size of a lentil, between the tendons attached to the j tip of the coccyx; and (3) some similar and still smaller structures appended to the coccygeal part of the middle sacral artery, found better developed j in dogs (J. Arnold). THE URINARY ORGANS. The urinary organs consist of the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra; but the male urethra, being a passage common to the urinary and repro- ! ductive systems, will fall to be considered with the organs of generation. j THE KIDNEYS. The kidneys are situated one on each side of the vertebral column, opposite the last dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebrae, but the right a little lower than the left. They are embedded in loose adipose tissue, and rest on the diaphragm and fascia of the quadratus lumborum behind them, and the psoas muscles internally, and are surmounted by the suprarenal capsules. They are pretty nearly on a level with the bodies of the last dorsal and two first lumbar vertebrae, and thus have the twelfth pair of ribs obliquely crossing them in their upper half behind. The right kidney is in contact anteriorly with peritoneum in its upper part, where