567 THE SOLAR PLEXUS. they surround the superior meseuteric artery and pass between the layers of the mesentery to the intestines. The aortic plexuses, one on each side, are continued downwards from the lower lateral portions of the solar plexus. They descend upon the sides of the aorta, communicating with one another across the middle line in front of the vessel; they receive branches from the lumbar ganglia; and below, forming on each side a number of large cords, they cross the common iliac arteries and terminate in the hypogastric plexus. From the aortic plexuses the spermatic or ovarian plexuses are given off; they accompany the similarly named arteries. The inferior mesenteric plexus is detached from the left aortic plexus; it is somewhat similar to the superior mesenteric plexus though of smaller size. The inferior mesenteric ganglion lies on the aorta immediately below the inferior mesenteric artery ; it communicates with the aortic plexuses. The Hypogastric Plexus. This plexus is formed in front of the last lumbar vertebra by the union with one another of the cords continued from the right and left aortic plexuses; it also receives branches from the lower lumbar ganglia. It forms a flattened reticulated band, and usually contains no ganglia ; it divides below into the right and left pelvic plexuses. The pelvic plexuses (Fig. 414) lie by the sides of the rectum, and, in the female, of the vagina. They receive a few slender branches from the sacral ganglia, and are joined by twigs from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves. Each plexus forms a considerable inter- lacement with a number of small ganglia. From the pelvic plexuses there are detached a number of subsidiary plexuses which pass with the branches of the internal iliac arteries to the pelvic viscera. The haemorrhoiclal plexus accompanies the middle haemorrhoidal artery to the rectum and communicates with the inferior mesenteric plexus and with the haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic nerve. The vesical plexus passes forwards to the sides of the bladder. Con- nected with the vesical plexus there is in the male the prostatic plexus, and smaller collections of nerves ramify over the vesicula seminalis and accompany the vas deferens. From the prostatic plexus the cavernous nerves {nervi erigentes) pass forwards by the side of the membranous portion of the urethra to supply the cavernous tissue of the penis; the small cavernous nerves enter the hinder part of the cavernous bodies, the large cavernous nerves run forwards on the dorsum and join the dorsal nerves of the penis. In the female, vaginal p)lexuses surround the lower part of the vaginal wall, supply its erectile tissue, and furnish branches to the clitoris. The uterine plexus ascends with the uterine artery and ramifies in the muscular substance of the uterus.