285 MUSCLES OF UPPEE LIMB. the opponens pollicis. the outer head of the flexor pollicis brevis, and the two outer lumbricales. The ulnar supplies all the others. Actions of the Muscles of the Forearm and Hand. The actions are in most cases indicated by the names of the muscles, and it is only requisite to give a special description in the case of one or two. Pronation is effected by the loronator qiiadratus and the pronator radii teres; the latter muscle also, when pronation has been completed or is prevented by the action of opposing muscles, assists in flexing the elboAY. When the forearm is vigorously pronated, a rotatory movement of the humerus in the outward direction takes place, and this also is probably partly at least the result of the contraction of the pronator teres. Supination is brought about by the biceps and supinator brevis. The supinator longus assists in flexion of the elbow after that movement has been com- menced by the other flexors, and is adequate of itself to maintain flexion; it has but little supinating action upon the radius. The \dnar and radial flexors and extensors of the carpus oppose , one another in flexion and extension of the wrist. When the flexors and extensors of the same side act together, lateral movement is produced at the joint. In addition, the long radial extensor may have in certain circunistances a slight flexing action upon the elbow. The superficial ami deep flexors of the fingers act respectively upon the second and third phalanges, and are opposed by the common extensor; these muscles also act upon the wrist. The connections which pass between the tendons of the common extensor interfere, particularly in the case of the ring finger, with the independent extension of the separate digits. The index and little fingers, however, have each a special muscle, and can be individually extended with more freedom than either the ring or the middle finger. The lumbriccdes produce flexion at the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations and extension at the interphalangeal joints, as is exemplified in making the hair stroke in writing. The interosseous muscles, in addition to their own special action, assist the lumbricales; the dorsal set abduct the fingers from the middle line of the hand, while the palmar muscles adduct. The palmaris longus makes tense the fascia of the palm;. the pcdmaris brevis dimples the skin at the inner side of the hand, and helps to deepen the hollow of the palmar cup. Deep Fascia of the Forearm and Hand. The fascia forms a moderately strong layer which closely invests all the superficial muscles, and, sending septa between them at their upper ends, aff'ords origin to many of their fibres. It is attached to the internal and external epicondyles and the posterior border of the ulna, and receives fibres from the tendons of the biceps and triceps. At the bend of the elbow it is pierced by a vein of considerable size. At the lower and back part of the forearm it is considerably thickened to form the posterior