THE FACIAL NEEVE. 551 downwards, outwards, and forwards, and enters the parotid gland, within which it divides into two terminal branches, the temporo-facial and the cervico-facial. Within the aqueduct of Fallopius a number of branches are detached. (1) The great superficial petrosal arises from the apex of the geniculate ganglion, passes forwards in the hiatus Fallopii, crosses below the Gasserian ganglion, and, on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, joins with the great deep petrosal from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic to form the Vidian nerve, which passes to Meckel's ganglion. (2) A communicating branch passes from the ganglion to the small superficial petrosal which, con- tinued from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, pierces the petrous l3one a little external to the hiatus Fallopii, and descends, usually through the spheno-petrous suture, to the otic ganglion. (3) The nerve to the stapedius muscle, a small branch, arises as the main trunk descends behind the tympanum. (4) The chorda tympani, a branch of some size, arises near the lower end of the aqueduct; it is directed at first upwards and forwards, then pierces the posterior wall of the tympanum, and courses forwards on the inner surface of the tympanic membrane near its upper margin, passing between the long process of the incus and the handle of the malleus. It leaves the tympanum by the canal of Huguier at the inner part of the fissure of Glaser and, after forming connections with the otic ganglion, joins the lingual nerve with which it is distributed to the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and to the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. (5) Occasionally a small branch, the external superficial petrosal, passes from the geniculate ganglion to the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery above the foramen spinosum; and (6) there is frequently a cominunicating branch given off from below the ganglion to the auricular branch of the pneunwgastric. Immediately below the stylo-mastoid foramen the facial nerve detaches two branches : (1) The auricular branch runs upwards in the fissure between the vaginal and mastoid 25rocesses, passes under cover of the retrahens auram, and breaks up into branches which supply the retrahens auram, the small muscles on the inner surface of the auricle, and the occipitalis; it forms connections with branches of the great auricular and small occipital nerves and with the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; (2) the nerve to the stylo-hyoid and the posterior belly of the digastric divides and gives a branch to each of these muscles. A communicating filament from the glosso- phari/ngeal nerre joins the nerve to the stylo-hyoid, or passes directly to the facial in the neighbourhood of the stylo-mastoid foramen. The terminal branches of the facial are the temporo-facial and cervico- facial. In passing through the parotid gland these nerves cross superficially the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein; the temporo- facial is connected by two communicating branches with the auriculo- temporal nerve; the cervico-facial forms connections with the branches of the great auricular nerve. Before leaving the gland each of the two