701 THE MOUTH. before being folded round on the under surface of the tongue. But, behind the teeth, internal to the ramus of the jaw, the floor of the mouth suddenly rises almost to a level with the dorsum of the tongue, and, internal to the hindermost tooth of the upper jaw, the hard palate is continued into the velum palati or soft palate. The comparative!}^ constricted passage thus bounded above and below, leading into the pharynx, is termed the fauces, and has the pendent uvula above, and on each side two prominent folds, the anterior and posterior pillars, separated by the tonsil, and corresponding respectively with the positions of the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscle. At the margin of the lips a sudden change takes place in the integuments. Both sebaceous and sudoriparous glands suddenly disappear, while the papillae become longer and more closely set as far as the lips come in contact, and then diminish. Papillae, however, are found every- where on the mucous membrane of the oral cavity, and the epithelium remains stratified squamous. Inside the cheek a slight elevation opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw marks the opening of the duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's duct). On the inner surface of each lip there is a slightly prominent fold or fraenum made by the mucous membrane in the middle line as it turns round on the jaw. The labio-buccal mucous membrane rests on loose areolar tissue, and shows on its deep side a number of small glands like lentils which open on its surface. These glands, termed labial, buccal and molar, are situated abundantly inside both lips, and are continued in a line from the angle of the mouth back to the neigh- bourhood of Stenson's duct, where they may be more abundant. In structure they are acinated. Their acini are flask-shaped with a strong membrana propria, and with an elastic fibrous coat wrapped round the lobules. They are lined with small nucleated corpuscles, and are filled with masses of muciparous substance unstainable with carmine. The mucous membrane of the gums and palate differs from that of the cheeks and lips, in being immovable. It is everywhere distinct from the periosteum, and on the hard palate is even separated from it by a con- siderable thickness of tissue, but white fibrous bands keep it in position. The papillae in the middle of the palate are very short, but they are longer on the gums, especially at the dental margins. The palate presents Labial Glands exhibited by removal of mucous membrane from inside the lips. 1, Oral aperture ; 2, 3, upper and lower lip ; 4, cut edge of mucous membrane ; 5, a gland; 6, 6, facial arteries ; 7, 8, siiperior and inferior coronary arteries ; 9, orbicularis oris ; 10, buccinator; 11, depressor auguli oris ; 12, levator anguli oris ; 13, nerve to lower lip from inferior dental; 14, nerve to upper lip from infraorbitab (Luschka.)