774 THE EEPEODUCTIYE OEGAXS. tubules, about a huDclredth of an inch in diameter, can be uncoiled to lengths of as much as two feet. More than one enter into the formation of each lobule, and at the circumference the lobules are less easily separated than nearer to the mediastinum, because of connections between tubules of different lobules. Loops also occur within lobules, and it is difficult to make certain if blind extremities of tubules really occur, though the connective tissue supporting them is of the most delicate description. This connective tissue is remarkable in containing besides the ordinary connective-tissue- corpuscles, large rounded corpuscles, granular and sometimes pigmented, the nature of which has not been determined. The tubules exhibit throughout a fine uniform zig-zag which causes them when stretched to spring back, and are, besides this, thrown into laterally compressed folds. They are continued into tuhuU recti. The tubuli seminiferi have a strong membrana propria or basement membrane sometimes concentrically striated (Toldt), which like other base- ment membranes is alleged to consist of endothelial cells (Mihalkovics). Their interior exhibits in the condition of rest several layers of small nucleated corpuscles surrounding a lumen. But portions which are in a state of activity show a more complicated arrangement connected with the production of spermatozoa. The sjjennatozoa constitute the essential product of the tubuli seminiferi, in the interior of which they are crowded closely together, as also in the epididj'mis and vas deferens, where they reach their ii ยง ^ maturity. They are firm structures, consisting of a head, neck and tail, and are in perpetual motion, moving head foremost with an eel-like movement of the tail as long as they retain their vitality, which in suitable fluids may be conserved for many hours. The head is about ^ o^oo^^ moh long, pyriform, with the narrow end foremost, and is somewhat flattened, so a.s to seem broader in one position, narrower in another; Spersiatozoa. ""^^"^^ it is succeeded by a cylindrical neck about half as long again, and. the neck tapers into the slender tail, varying from ^Ijjth. to ^\jjt\i inch in length. A delicate membrane with a frilled free edge has over and over again been described as attached to one side of the tail of the spermatozoon of many animals and even of man, but there seems room to question if the appearances seen have been really due to a membrane. In tubuli seminiferi in which the formation of spermatozoa is going on, the corpuscles nearest to the membrana propria exhibit various stages of mitosis in their nuclei, and are, certain of them, at intervals round the tubule, greatly elongated into sj^ermatohlasts, each presenting peripherally a base containing one distinct nucleus, and internally a clavate expansion which is supported on a constricted neck, and contains a number of nuclei. These spermatoblasts develop further, the clavate extremity becoming