421 THE OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. roof of the sinus, and reaches the base of the brain in the neighbourhood of the anterior perforated spot. As it passes forwards in the sinus it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic, and is in contact externally with the third, fourth, ophthalmic division of the fifth, and sixth nerves. There are no branches in the neck. Very minute twigs are detached in the carotid canal, and within the skull, to the tympanum and to the walls of the sinus. Immediately after perforating the roof of the sinus it detaches the ophthalmic artery, and at the base of the brain, before dividing into its terminal branches, the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, it gives oflf the posterior communicating and anterior choroid arteries. The ophthalmic artery (Fig. 322), arising from the internal carotid as it ascends by the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, passes through the optic foramen below, and by the outer side of the optic nerve. Within the orbit it passes obliquely forwards and inwards with a slightly tortuous course, crossing in the posterior part of the cavity usually over, but some- times under, the optic nerve. At the level of the pulley of the superior oblique muscle it divides into its terminal branches—the frontal and nasal. The branches are very numerous. A number of muscular twigs are given off irregularly from the main trunk and from its more important derivatives. The branches which are specially named may be divided into three groups, according as they are given off—{a) as the main trunk lies by the outer side of the optic nerve; {h) as it crosses the nerve; (c) as it is passing forwards along the inner wall of the cavity. {a) The lachrymal artery runs forwards along the upper margin of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland which it supplies. It detaches temporal and malar twigs, which pass through bony foramina to the exterior of the skull, in company with the similarly named branches of the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve; and it likewise gives off slender palpebral branches to the upper and lower eyelids. The central artery of the retina, a slender vessel, leaves the ophthalmic artery at the back of the orbit, penetrates into the interior of the optic nerve, and, passing forwards within it, ramifies upon the retina. (h) The ciliary arteries are divided into three groups—posterior, middle, and anterior. The posterior or short ciliary arteries, usually two in number at the origin, divide into ten or twelve branches, which pass forwards, sur- rounding the optic nerve, and pierce the sclerotic posteriorly; they ramify in the choroid coat. The middle or long ciliary arteries, two in number, arising either separately or with the posterior vessels, pierce the sclerotic posteriorly, one on either side of the optic nerve, a little in front of the short ciliary arteries, and are continued forwards to the iris. The anterior ciliary arteries, six or seven in number, may arise either directly or in conjunction with some of the muscular branches; they pierce the sclerotic anteriorly close to its corneal margin, and supply the ciliary processes of the choroid. The siqmwrbital artery passes forwards by the inner side of the levator palpebrae muscle, leaves the orbit by the supra-