511 THE POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS. The internal divisions of the first three are small and end in the multifidus spinae. The external branches of the first three form with one another, and with that of the last lumbar nerve, a series of loops on the back of the sacrum ; from the loops branches proceed to a second series of loops in the substance or on the posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; from the secondary loops two or three branches pass to the surface, perforating the gluteus maximus and supplying the skin over its lower and inner part. The fourth and fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerves. The posterior divisions of these nerves are of small size, and do not divide into external and internal branches; they form with one another, and with a small branch from the third sacral, a series of delicate loops, from which slender twigs pass to the skin in the neighbourhood of the coccyx. THE ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS. The Cervical Plexus. The cervical plexus is formed from the anterior primary divisions of the first four cervical nerves. Those of the third and fourth are the largest of the series, that of the first is a comparatively slender trunk. The first nerve of the plexus passes forwards between the rectus capitis lateralis muscle and the rectus capitis anticus minor, and descends in front of the base of the transverse process of the atlas to join the ascending branch of the second; the others emerge between the anterior and posterior intertransverse muscles, and lie in a plane immediately in front of the origins of the scalenus medius. The second and third nerves divide into ascending and descending branches which, uniting with one another, with the first nerve above, and with the fourth nerve below, form a series of three loops. The branches of the plexus are divided into superficial and deep groups. SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES. The superficial branches, passing backwards and outwards from their origins, emerge from under cover of the sterno-mastoid opposite the middle third of its posterior border. They are arranged in ascending and descending groups : in the former are the small occipital, the great auricular, and the superficial cervical; in the latter are the supra-acromial, the supraclavicular, and the suprasternal. The small occipital nerve (Fig. 379) is derived from the loop formed by the second and third nerves. It ascends along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and divides into mastoid and occijntal branches, which supply the integument covering the mastoid, the outer part of the occipital, and the lower part of the parietal region of the skull; a slender auricular branch is directed forwards to the skin of the upper part of the inner surface of the pinna. The small occipital nerve is of variable size, and occasionally is