THE OLFACTORY LOBES. GBl roots extend—an outer root directed outwards in front of the outer part of the locus perforatus anticus, and an inner root which curves inwards and turns forwards in the longitudinal fissure to join the gyrus fornicatus and peduncle of the corpus callosum. Between these two roots the grey matter continuous with the peduncle is sometimes described as the middle or grey root. In this grey matter fibres are sometimes found which apparently are developed in lower animals in a remarkable manner backwards (Rorie, Natural History Revieiv, 1863). Schwalbe rightly points out that this grey surface (trigonum olfactorium) "is only the basal surface of a small ball-shaped lobule, tuber olfactorium, which occupies a deep three- sided depression at the hinder border of the under side of the frontal lobe, continuous at its base with the lamina perforata anterior, from which it is separated by a shallow groove." In its finer structure the peduncle consists principally of white longitudinal fibres; and superficial to them a column of grey matter is prolonged from the hemisphere on the dorsal Side, while in the interior a flat streak of neuroglia replaces the original hollow. The bulb presents likewise longitudinal white fibres round a central neur- oglia, the white fibres gathered in small bundles with their medullary sheaths united or very closel)^ placed. Outside the longitudinal fibres it pre- sents dorsally only a little gelatinous grey substance, but on the ventral side it has a complex structure arranged in strata of which the deepest is characterized by angular nerve - corpuscles known as mitral cells, and the next by copious granules or nuclei like those of the granular layers of the cortex of the convolutions, while superficial to these is a stratum thickly strewed with globular arrange- ments termed glomeruli, and on the surface is a thick plexus of nerve- fibres continued up from the mucous membrane of the nose. These latter end in the glomeruli, each of which consists of a convoluted and branched termination of an olfactory nerve-fibre and of a complicated arborization of a protoplasmic fibre from a mitral cell. Each mitral cell has in addition other protoplasmic poles branching in the granular layer, and an axis-cylinder continued into the layer of medullated fibres. Fig. 4G1.—Antero-Posterior Section of Olfactory Bui.b OF A Duck, a, Arborization of the olfactory fibres within the glomeruli ; b, descending trunks of the large cuplike cori^uscles in granular fringes within the glomeruli; c, the large cuplike or mitral corpuscles ; d, superficial zone of fibres ; e, superficial member of a deep zone of grainlike corpuscles. (Cajal.)