THE SKELETON. 202 Ki. 192.—Young Humerus, with trochlear, capitell ar and external epicondylar centres united together, while the internal epicondylar is sep- arate, as is also the superior epiphysis. The humerus begins to ossify in the shaft about the eighth week. It presents in later growth a superior and inferior epiphysis, besides a separate- epiphysis of the internal epicondyle. The superior epiphysis has two or more centres of ossification— one in the head, beginning in the first year; one in. the great tuberosity, beginning in the third, and sometimes one in the small tuberosity, appearing later. These nuclei join together about the sixth year. At the lower end of the bone there are four centres of ossification, the largest in the trochlea, another in the capitellum, and two others- in the epicondyles, all appearing from the third tO' the fifth year. The trochlear, capitellar and ex- ternal epicondylar centres unite about the seven- teenth year to form the inferior epiphysis, while the internal epicondyle remains ununited for a little longer. The superior epiphysis is not united to the shaft till the twentieth year. The radius and ulna begin to ossify in the middle of the shaft about the eighth week, and each has an upper and a lower epiphysis; but these are very different in size and in date of appearance. In the radius the large lower epiphysis makes its appearance about the end of the second year, while that of the head is fully three years later. In the ulna the lower epiphysis begins to ossify in the fourth or fifth year, while, at the upper end, the diaphysis is continued right up to the elbow, where it is tipped by a very small epiphysis which does not appear till the tenth year. In both radius and ulna the superior epiphysis is united to the shaft about the seventeenth year, and the inferior not till the twentieth year. The carpus has one centre of ossification for each bone. Those for the OS magnum, unciform and cuneiform appear in succession in the first, second and third years respectively; those for the trapezium and semi- lunar in the fifth year; those of the scaphoid and trapezoid about the sixth or seventh year respectively; and lastly the pisiform, so late as the twelfth year. The metacarpals show ossification in their shafts soon after the radius and ulna, and the distal phalanges follow them before the others. The four inner metacarpals have manifest epiphyses at their distal ends, appear- ing from the third to the fifth year, and remaining distinct till the eighteenth or twentieth year. The phalanges have each an epiphysis at the proximal end, appearing later and uniting earlier than the metacarpal heads. The metacarpal of the thumb resembles the phalanges in having a distinct epiphysis at its base, appearing early and remaining long distinct, but it often shows evidence of a fugitive epiphysis at its distal end. Conversely^ traces of proximal epiphysis may be found in some of the other meta- carpals.