THE SKELETON. 198 Movements of the ankle and foot. At the ankle-joint, movement is restricted to one path, and its extent, from extreme dorsiflexion to the nearest approach allowed to straightening of the foot into a line with the leg, is not more than quarter of a circle. In standing at attention, the tibia rests on the middle of the opposed surface of the astragalus ; and starting from this position, about equal extents of dorsiflexion and straightening are allowed. The axis of revolution is oblique, nearly corre- sponding with tips of the two malleoli; and the external malleolus being placed lower than the internal, the outer edge of the foot is, to a certain extent, turned downwards in straightening, and upwards in dorsiflexion. This can be made apparent by placing the feet with the ankles and alsa the balls of the great toes pressed closely together, and rising on tip-toe, when the ankles will be found to separate slightly, and the heels to come nearer one to the other; while, in sinking on the haunches, the knees, become parted to a certain extent by compulsion. In straightening the ankle, the obliquity of the axis of revolution necessarily causes the back part of the outer edge of the upper surface of the astragalus to be pressed against the fibula, pushing it away from the tibia and bringing the angular facet of the astragalus into contact with the stretched deep part of the posterior inferior tibio fibular ligament. In dorsiflexion, the broad fore part of the astragalar surface sweeps back into the space between the malleoli, tightening the anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament by pushing the external malleolus outwards from the front. Thus spring is given io the ankle-joint by the mobility of the fibula; and this is the only purpose served by the lower tibio-fibular articulation. The fibula is, however, more mobile at its head; and this is probably to allow the inward movement of the tibia relatively to the femur in incipient flexion of the knee. Between calcaneum and astragalus there is only one path of movement^ and it is pivoted round the inner fibres of the interosseous ligament. When the weight of the body falls on the foot, whether the heel be on the ground or raised, the surfaces of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint lie in perfect apposition; so also do the surfaces of the astragalo-calcaneo- scaphoid articulation, with the exception of the outer part of the facet on the fore-end of the calcaneum, which is not in use; and the upper margins of the scaphoid and head of the astragalus lie alongside one of the other, while the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments are on the stretch. When the foot is straightened as nearly as possible into a line with the leg, its outer border is at the same time turned downwards with an inward sweep already begun to a slight extent at the ankle-joint, but carried out by the calcaneum and scaphoid moving on the astragalus. In this movement, the surfaces of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint are no longer in apposition, but the outer edge of the calcaneal surface moves downwards and forwards from beneath the body of the astragalus, and only the anterior part of the astragalar surface is in contact with the