ARTICULATIONS OF THE AXIAL SKELETON. The intervertebral discs are each divisible into a central pulp and a laminated white-fibrous structure surrounding it and graduating into it. The pulp is soft, yielding, resilient and tough. (For its structure, see p. 38.} The laminae consist of thin layers of fibres of tendinous lustre disposed obliquely, those of one layer decussating with those of the layers in contact with it, and the deep layers more nearly horizontal. When a disc is divided, the cut laminae alternately reflect more or less light to the eye, and being relieved from tension, press the cut pulp into a convex form. The discs are thickest in the lower lumbar region, reaching to two fifths of an inch in depth. In the upper half of the chest they are very thin. By inequality of depth in front and behind they take part in the formation of the vertebral curves. Between the non-central parts of the bodies of the cervical vertebrae there is invariably a synovial space left on each side, interrupting the disc, as was pointed out by Luschka. The anterior common ligament is a longitudinal band extending in front of the vertebrae and the intervertebral discs down to the sacrum. It begins above as a narrow fasciculus adherent to the fibrous sheet between atlas and occipital bone, and sometimes termed accessory occipito-atlantal ligament, and increases in breadth more and more as it descends. It is strong in the middle line, its superficial fibres passing over a number of vertebrae; but it thins away at the sides, and its deep and lateral fibres stretch vertically between the neighbouring margins of vertebrae. The posterior common ligament, behind the bodies of the vertebrae, begins as a broad band above, at the axis, in continuity with the long occipito-axial ligament, and narrows as it descends, till it ends by tapering on the backs of the bodies of the sacral vertebrae. It has a dentated appearance; its fibres being more gathered together behind each vertebra, where a vein emerges on each side from underneath it, while it has a spreading attach- ment to each disc and the contiguous margins of vertebrae. The ligamenta suhflava are strong bands of yellow-elastic tissue which extend vertically between the laminae, from the axis to the sacrum; their inner edges are in contact, and they are attached to the roughnesses on the lower and upper edges of successive laminae. They are so far on the stretch in the erect posture, that when the series of laminae is detached in one piece kept together by them, it is two or three inches shorter than the column from which it has been removed. The supraspinous ligament is a continuous band of fibres joining the- tips of the spines together, from the seventh cervical to the first sacral. The ligamentum nuchae is continued up from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, continuous with the supraspinous ligament, its superficial fibres extending to the occipital protuberance, and the deeper fibres successively to the occipital crest and the cervical spines from above downwards. The superficial part is little more than a raphe between the trapezii and splenii muscles of oj^posite sides, and the deep part is a mere intermuscular septum. It owes its name to being obviously homo-