44:3 THE ARTEEIES OF THE HAND. (5) The first dorsal interosseous artery springs from the radial as it descends on the back of the carpus. The three dorsal interosseous arteries descend, one in each of the tliree inner intermetacarpal spaces; they lie upon the dorsal interosseous muscles, on the deep surface of the extensor tendons. Each artery gives off—{a) at the upper extremity of its space a superior iierforating hrarirh which joins the deep palmar arch, and (b) at the lower extremity of the space an inferior perforating branch which joins the palmar digital artery from the superficial palmar arch. At the digital cleft each vessel divides into two dorsal collateral branches which descend upon the contiguous sides of the fingers and anastomose, about the level of the base of the second phalanx, with the dorsal branches of the palmar collateral arteries. (6) The dorsalis indicis artery springs from the radial before it passes between the heads of the first interosseous muscle. It descends upon the radial border of the index finger. (7) The dorsalis pollicis artery arises in close proximity to the last mentioned branch and, after descending upon the back of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, divides into outer and inner branches. Frequently the outer and inner branches for the thumb rise separately from the radial artery. (8) The arteria princeps pollicis passes downwards upon the anterior surface of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and in the interval between the insertions of the two portions of the flexor pollicis brevis muscle divides into two branches which anastomose and pulsate on the front of the second phalanx of the thumb. (9) The arteria radialis indicis passes downwards under cover of the adductor pollicis and runs along the radial side of the index finger. Varieties of the radial artery. High origin is said to occur about once in eight cases; an origin below the usual point is comparatively rare. The vessel seldom deviates from its usual course through the forearm, but it is sometimes much reduced in size, and its entire absence has been recorded. Its recurrent branch may be reduced in size, or trans- ferred altogether to the ulnar or interosseous stem, or, on the other hand, it may be much enlarged. The branches which are distributed to the hand are very variable in size. The anastomoses around the elbow-joint. The arteries from above are the anterior and posterior divisions of the superior profunda, the inferior profunda, and the anastomotic; those from below are the radial recurrent, the posterior interosseous recurrent, and the posterior and anterior ulnar recur- rents. The anastomotic, besides anastomosing with the anterior ulnar recurrent, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, forms connections with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent, and sends a branch over the olecranon fossa to anastomose with the posterior Ijranch of the superior profunda.