407 THE HEART. surface by three lines, one drawn down the middle of the sternum, from the level of the fourth costal cartilages to the upper end of the ensiform process, the other two connecting the extremities of the first with the site Fig. 313.—The Position of the Heart with reference to the Chest Wall. (C. Gegenbaur.) of the apex. This area lies under the inner extremities of the fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostal spaces of the left side. The aortic opening lies behind the left border of the sternum at the lower edge of the third left costal cartilage; the pulmonary orifice is above and to the left of the aortic, at the left border of the sternum, at the level of the upper edge of the third left costal cartilage. The left auriculo-ventricular opening lies behind the fourth left costal cartilage and the adjacent portion of the sternum ; the right auriculo-ventricular orifice is i^laced behind the left half of the sternum at the level of the fifth costal cartilage. The structure of the heart wall. The wall of the heart is chiefly formed of muscular tissue, but in the region surrounding the auriculo- ventricular and arterial openings there is a quantity of fibrous tissue, which encircles the orifices and becomes continuous with the tissue of the valves, sends a process downwards into the septum, and gives attachment to most of the muscular fibres. Superficially the heart is covered by the visceral pericardium or ejncardiiim, while internally the cavities are lined by a smooth delicate membrane, the endocardium, which is continuous with the tunica intima of the vessels. A variable and, in some cases, a considerable amount of fat is found lodged under the pericardium, chiefly at the base of the heart, and in the course of the diff'erent furrows. The ivalls of the auricles are much thinner than those of the ventricles. A superficial set of fibres, common to both auricles, runs transversely in front and behind, but is better marked in front; some of the fibres of this layer pass into the septum. Of the deeper fibres, which are proper