DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 795 stroma. At intervals other cells in these masses assume the characters of ova, and the stroma separates each ovum with its surrounding cells from the others, so as to produce separate Graafian follicles arranged at first in chains or egg-hands (Fig. 612). The testicle seems on the whole to be well made out to have its seminal elements derived like those of the ovary by intrusion of epithelial elements, arranged in processes which become elongated as the connective and vascular tissue grows up round about them. Ducts. The MUllerian duct can be easily seen with the naked eye, forming on the outer border of the Wolffian body at the time of its maximum development a prominent white column; and in connection with the upper end of this column there is soon afterwards seen in both sexes a white conical mass (Cleland, 1856) containing tubules, and in greater part distinct from the Miillerian duct, which duct turns inwards in front of the base of the conical mass to terminate on the inner border (Banks, 186'i:). In the female the Miillerian duct is developed in so far as it is in contact with the AVolffian body into the Fallopian tube, and the lower end of the Wolffian body marks the point where uterus and Fallopian tube meet. To this point a cord descends from the lower end of the ovary, and becomes developed into round ligament of ovary, while continuous with it another fold extends to the inguinal canal, and becomes round ligament of uterus. But the two ligaments are not long continuous in direction, as the Wolffian body and the ovary are rotated outwards, and the deep end of the inguinal canal also retreats from the mesial plane. In later development the peri- toneum descends into the inguinal canal for a short distance on the round ligament of the uterus as a pouch, the canal of Nuck. The Miillerian duct opens at first independently of its neighbour into the uro-genital sinus; but while in monotremata and non-mammalian vertebrates it remains distinct from its fellow, in all placental mammals the ducts of opposite sides become fused into one tube a little distance from their outlets to form the fundus uteri, and the fusion is afterwards extended as far as the sinus so as to make a single vagina. It is failure in this fusion which produces various anomalies met with in the human subject, such as bicornute uterus and duplicity of vagina. ^ In the male the Miillerian ducts are early arrested in development. The united part of the two ducts remains as the sinus ^ocularis; which (as first pointed out by Banks) represents both uterus and vagina, while the portion of the male urethra between the sinus and the bladder is homologous with the female urethra. The ununited portions of the Miillerian ducts persist in the male in many mammals as cornua of the sinus pocularis and two threads extending from them. The vas deferens is developed from that part of the Wolffian duct between the base of the 1 Specimens in my museum demonstrate that, in marsupials, the ureters pass between the two vaginae to reach the bladder. In this respect the marsupial arrangement is not comparable with anomalous double \ agina in the human subject.