THE YEINS OF THE LIMBS. 485 artery. Although the superficial trunks of the arm, on account of the free anastomoses between their tributaries, are subject to many variations, yet a considerable vein will almost constantly be found in the position of the median basilic. For this reason, despite its proximity to the main artery, the median basilic vein was in the past, when blood-letting was a more fashionable procedure than it is now, usually selected for the operation of venesection. The basilic vein (Fig. 363) ascends on the inner side of the biceps; about the middle of the arm, after passing through the deep fascia, it terminates by joining the inner of the two brachial venae comites. The cephalic vein (Fig. 363) ascends at first on the outer side of the biceps, and afterwards in the groove between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles to a spot a little below the clavicle, where, passing deeply, it crosses the first part of the axillary artery, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and terminates in the axillary vein. Occasionally the cephalic vein is prolonged over the clavicle to terminate in the external jugular or subclavian vein, and even when the termination is normal, a considerable branch is sometimes found passing upwards in front of the collar bone. A vessel in this position might be divided by the surgeon in making the cutaneous incision in the operation for ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery. Both basilic and cephalic veins receive small tributaries from the arm. The deep veins of the upper limb. Each artery below the axillary is accompanied by two venae comites. The axillary vein ascends by the - inner side of the axillary artery; in addition to the tributaries, which correspond to the branches of the artery, it receives the cephalic vein ; it is frequently double in the lower part of the axilla, and occasionally in its whole course. Veins of the Lower Limb. The superficial digital veins pass backwards to a venous arch on the dorsum of the foot, those of the plantar surface ascending behind the clefts of the toes to join the larger dorsal vessels. The superficial veins of the sole are small but numerous; the anterior vessels reach the dorsum along with the plantar digital veins, the posterior turn round the sides of the foot to join the dorsal arch. The dorsal venous arch, of con- siderable size but very irregular in disposition, lies upon the instep; it receives digital, dorsal, and plantar tributaries, and posteriorly is continued into the external and internal saphenous veins. Between the clefts of the toes, on the dorsum, and at the sides of the foot there are numerous communications between the deep and superficial veins. The external saphenous vein (Fig. 365), from the outer side of the dorsal arch, passes behind the external malleolus and ascends with an inward inclination upon the back of the leg to the lower part of the j^opliteal space, where, after perforating the deep fascia, it enters the popliteal vein.