THE SKELETON. 224 inspection shows it to be divided by a scoop-like lamina, the cochlear if arm process, into an upper part which transmits the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle, and a lower, which is the osseous part of the Eustachian tube. The tegmen tympani projects downwards outside the Eustachian orifice, and appears in the inner half of the Glaserian fissure, especially in young- subjects ; and the part of the fissure between the tegmen and tympanic plate is important as that through which the chorda tympani nerve passes, and in which the processus graciUs of the malleus is entangled. The foramen lacerum medium is a gap in the base of the skull, best named thus, to distinguish it from the foramen lacerum posticum, and from the sphenoidal fissure which has sometimes been called foramen lacerum anticum. It is bounded in front by the inner part of the pos- terior border of the great wing of the sphenoid, internally by the basilar process of the occipital, and behind and externally by the apex of the petrous part of the temporal. No structure passes directly through it, but it is traversed by the internal carotid artery and the continuations backwards of the Vidian nerve. THE ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid bone consists, fundamentally, of a mesial and a pair of lateral elements not united until after birth, and then only by means of a cribriform plate growing out from the mesial element. In animals other than man the mesial part is often united to the sphenoid long before it is con- nected with the lateral parts ; and in mammals generallj^, the lateral parts are united by means of the vomer, long before they are joined by the cribriform plate. The mesial or central plate (mesethmoid) forms the upper part of the septum separating the right and left nasal fossae, and grows from above down- wards at the expense of the septal cartilage of the nose. In the greater part of its extent it is reduced to a thin lamina; but inferiorly its border is of the thickness of the septal cartilage, with which it is continuous, and in the hinder part of the extent of this border there is osseous continuity on one or both sides in the adult with the vomer. The posterior border is in osseous continuity with the sphenoidal crest, and the anterior border articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal and with the nasal bones. The upper border appears in the cranium above the Crista galli Orbital plate ( Superior turbin- } ated process Unciform process j Inferior turbin- ( ated process Central plate Fio. 208.—Ethmoid from behind.