385 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. oblique passage between the deep and the superficial abdominal rings, and runs immediately above and almost parallel to the inner half of Poupart's ligament. It is lined by the infundibuliform fascia. Above, it is crossed in front by the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, continuous with which in front of the canal lie the fibres of the cremaster muscle, much better developed in the male than in the female. More superficially in front lies the tendon of the external oblique muscle. Be- hind the canal lies the conjoined tendon, closely adherent to which, on the deep surface, is the lower part of the fascia transversalis. The deep epigastric artery crosses behind the canal in close proximity to the inner edge of the deep ring. An inguinal hernia may enter the canal by the deep ring, in which case its neck lies external to the deep epigastric artery, and it is called an oblique or external hernia. On the other hand, it may pass through the abdominal wall in the line of the canal at any spot between the arterj^ ^ , , b, transversalis muscle; c, cremaster; d, testicle; Fig. —iHE feuPERFiciAL Abdominal Ring. ^ tendon of external oblique (reflected); /, con- «, Fascia of bcarpa ; h, mtercolumnar fascia; ioined tendon ; a, deep epigastric artery. c, spermatic cord. and the position of the superficial ring, and in this case receives the name of internal or direct hernia. Either form of hernia may remain inclosed within the wall, or may pass on through the superficial ring to the scrotum or labium. The ordinary contents of the canal usually lie behind the hernia in each case. In both forms the protrusion receives a covering from the peritoneum of the anterior abdominal wall, which is called the sac of the hernia, in association with which there is usually a delicate layer of subperitoneal tissue. The coverings of an oblique inguinal hernia, retained within the abdominal wall, are, in addition to the sac, simply those which have already been enumerated as forming the immediate surroundings of the