THE XERVES. .552 divisions breaks up into three branches. The branches pass forwards over the face and upper part of the neck, ramifying and forming, by their repeated connections with one another, a plexus to which the name "pes anserinus" has been given : they likewise form communications with the various branches of the fifth nerve which appear upon the face. The temporo-facial branches are the temporal, malar, and infraorbital. The temporol branches cross the zygoma a little in front of the temporal artery, and pass chiefly towards the upper margin of the orbit. They supply the atollens and attrahens auram, the small muscles of the outer surface of the auricle, the orbicularis palpebrarum, the corrugator supercilii, and the frontalis, and they form connections with the auriculo-temporal, temporal, and supraorbital branches of the fifth. The mulo.r hronches pass towards the outer angle of the orbit, supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, and form connections with the malar, lachrymal, and infraorbital brunches of the fifth nerve. The infraorbital branches run forwards above Stenson's duct : they are the largest of the series, and supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, the muscles of the nose, the elevators of the upper lip, the orbicularis oris, and the buccinator; they form connections with terminal twigs of the infraorbital and nasal branches of the fifth. The cervico-facial branches are the buccal, supramaxillary, and infra- maxillary. The buccal branches run towards the angle of the mouth, supply the buccinator and orbicularis oris, and form connections with the buccal branch of the fifth Hong buccal;. Tiie saprajraixillary Iranchj^s run towards the chin ; they supply the orbicularis oris, the muscles of the lower lip, and the levator menti, and form connections with the mental nerve. The infra.mcixillary branches pass out from the lower border of the parotid gland, and ramify under the upper part of the platysma, which they supply; they form connections with the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. THE EIGHTH OR AUDITORY XERVE. The eighth nerve (the portio mollis of the seventh pair of Willis) arises from the side of the medulla oblongata close to the hinder border of the pon.s, immediately external (dorsal; to the place of origin of the seventh nerve. It passes outwards behind and below the facial nerve, and in close contact with it, and at the bottom of the internal, auditory meatus divides into two terminal branches: these, the vestibular and cochlear nerves respectively, are described along M'ith the organ of hearing. Nii.dei of origin. Traced into the medulla, the fibres form two bundles, the lateral and mesial roots, which embrace the restiform body. The lateral root is mainly continuous with the cochlear, and the mesial with the vestibular nerve. The fibres end in three separate collections of nerve cells. The rentral nucleus is a collection of nerve cells which lies in the medulla in the an^rle between the two roots, and extends in a dorsal