784 THE EEPEODUCTIYE OEGANS. some authors) unites each to the corresponding cornu uteri. The exact position of the ovary, when its ligaments remain unaltered, may be said to be determined by the position of the uterus and by the entrance of the round ligament of the uterus into the inguinal canal. When the uterus is neither pregnant nor displaced, the ovary rests in the depression between the external and internal iliac arteries, and the end furthest from the uterus is superior and posterior to the other. Along the attached border it presents a linear depression or hilus, from which the vessels and nerves can be traced spreading out in the interior. Within the ovary, tortuous vessels abound, some only for a depth of from a sixteenth to a twenty-fifth of an inch below the peritoneum, which is dis- tinguished as the cortex, while the rest is termed the medulla. The stroma of the ovary consists of a richly corpuscular fibrous tissue, in which the great majority of the corpuscles are spindle-shaped, and contains a notable number Intruding stream of epithelial cells Primitive ova I Fig. 612.—Section of Ovary of Child at Birth. (Hertwig, after Waldeyer.) of elastic fibres. The medulla abounds in winding arteries and veins, and contains a number of spindle-shaped corpuscles, larger than those of the cortex and considered by some as muscular, and it has also stellate corpuscles, held by many as nervous. The cortex or ovigenous stratum has its fibres more uniformly felted and more nearly parallel to the peritoneum, and is but slightly vascular; it is the part in which the ova are developed, and when examined with the microscope is seen from foetal life up to the young adult condition to abound in multitudes of minute ova in different stages of development. Scattered about in the cortex in active ovaries there are always visible a few clear cysts, the larger members of a vast number of follicles, each surrounding an ovum, the Graafian vesicles. The smaller of those visible encroach on the medulla, and the larger occupy the