362 THE MUSCLES. from the hollow on the back of the sacrum extending as far as the fourth foramen, from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, and from the overlying The fibres pass to the spines of all the movable vertebrae from the axis down- wards, and on each spine the insertion spreads from the base almost to the tip. The more superficial fibres of each fan- shaped bundle cross over three or four vertebrae; the deeper are successively shorter, and the deepest of all, most constant in the thoracic region, but occasionally present in the neck and loins, pass between contiguous bones. In the neck and thoracic region the bundles may be separated from one another with tolerable accuracy; but in the loins, where the muscle is thickest, the fibres of succes- sive bundles are considerably intermixed. The more superficial or longer fibres of any one bundle overlie the deeper or shorter fibres of the neighbouring higher bundles. The deepest or shortest fibres which pass between contiguous bones are sometimes separately described under the names rotatores dorsl or rotatr/i'es spinae. The highest one or two bundles of the muscle are necessarily short. The interspinales muscles form in the neck and loins a single set on each side of the middle line; in the thoracic region they are usually absent altogether. In the neck the muscles are rounded bundles, the highest of which is placed between the second and third vertebrae. In the lumbar regions they are thin and flattened from side to side. The intertransversales muscles form in the neck and loins a double set on each side; in the thoracic region they are usually absent. The cervical muscles, anterior and posterior in position, joass respectively between successive anterior tubercles and successive posterior tubercles of transverse processes, the highest pair stretching between the atlas and the axis. The lumbar muscles are, relatively to one another, external and internal in position. The external muscles {intertransversales laterales) pass between successive transverse processes : the internal muscles {intertransversales rnediales) in each case extend from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mammillary process of that immediately beneath it. The rectus capitis posticus major, a fan-shaped muscle, passes from the side of the spine of the axis upwards and outwards to the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone and the under- lying rough area. The rectus capitis posticus minor, fan-shaped, and smaller than the last, springs from the tubercle of the posterior arch of the atlas, and tendon of the erector spinae. Fig. 285.—Three Bundles of the Multi- FiDUS Spinae in the Thoracic Region. a, Multifidus spinae; 6, levator costae; c, posterior costo-transverse ligament.