516 THE NERVES. passes downwards and outwards on the deep surface of the levator anguli scapulae to reach the posterior margin of the scapula, along which it descends on the deep surface of the rhomboid muscles : it supplies both rhomboid muscles, and detaches twigs to the levator anguli scapulae. The posterior thoracic nerve (external respiratory nerve of Sir Charles. Bell) arises by three roots which spring from the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical nerves respectively; the roots separately pierce the middle scalene muscle and unite with one another on its posterior surface. The nerve descends through the apex of the axilla, behind the large structures- which pass to and from the arm, and, continuing its course, passes down- wards on the axillary surface of the serratus magnus, to which muscle it is entirely distributed. The nerve to the subclavius, a slender thread, arises from the front of the first primary cord of the plexus and passes downwards, crossing in front of the third part of the subclavian artery, to enter the deep surface of the muscle; it frequently communicates by a small twig with the phrenic nerve. The suprascapular nerve, a considerable offset, arises from the back of the first primary cord ; it courses downwards and outwards to the upper border of the scapula, and passes through the suprascapular notch (beneath the ligament). It detaches a twig to the shoulder-joint, and supplies the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles, descending through the great scapular notch to reach the latter muscle. Branches of the Brachial Plexus given off Below the Clavicle. The outer cord gives off the external anterior thoracic nerve, and the external cutaneous or muscido-cutaneous nerve, and is continued as the outer head of the median nerve. The inner cord gives off the internal anterior thoracic nerve, the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, the internal cutaneous nerve, and the ulnar nerve, and is continued as the inner head of the median nerve. The posterior cord gives off three subscapular nerves and the cir- cumflex nerve, and is continued as the muscido-spiral nerve. The branches of the posterior cord supply the integument and the muscles of the posterior aspect of the limb. The external anterior thoracic nerve arises from the outer cord about the level of the clavicle. It passes forwards and inwards in front of the first part of the axillary artery, and breaks up into branches which pierce the costo-coracoid membrane, and supply the pectoralis major,, entering the muscle on its deep surface; one branch crosses inwards and downwards in front of the artery and forms a connection with the in- ternal anterior thoracic nerve. The internal anterior thoracic nerve takes origin from the inner cord in the upper part of the axilla and passes forwards between the axillary artery and vein to gain the deep surface of the pectoralis minor, ta