•292 THE MUSCLES. capsule of the joint, a bursa being interposed. It is inserted by tendon into the digital fossa of the trochanter. It is supplied by the obturator nerve from the lumbar plexus. Variations of the muscles of the hip. Some of the smaller muscles are sometimes entirely absent, most frequently the superior gemellus; but absence of the inferior gemellus, of the quadratus femoris, and of the pyriformis has occasionally been observed. Contiguous muscles are some- times united with one another thus—the quadratus femoris with the adductor magnus, and the pyriformis with the gluteus medius, minimus, or gemellus superior. The gluteus maximus is sometimes divided into two layers, and its lowest sacro-coccygeal fibres are sometimes distinct from the others, representing the agitator caudae of the lower animals. The gluteus medius is sometimes double at its insertion, and the minimus is occasionally almost completely divided into two parts. The pyriformis is very frequently divided into two by one of the roots of the great sciatic nerve. An accessory gluteal muscle has been found between the maximus and medius. POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The hamstring muscles,—biceps, semitendinosus and semimembranosus, —passing from the tuberosity of the ischium to the outer and inner sides of the knee, occupy the back of the thigh. They spring from two triangular impressions on the upper and posterior region of the tuberosity, the biceps and semitendinosus by a common tendon from the internal and lower of the two, the semimembranosus from the upper and outer. The biceps has an additional head from the linea aspera. They lie behind the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, and are themselves covered posteriorly in the upper part of the thigh by the gluteus maximus. As they separate above the knee, the biceps to the outside, the other two inwards, they form the upper walls of the diamond-shaped popliteal space comj^leted below by the heads of the gastrocnemius. They are supplied by the great sciatic nerve which descends in front of them. The biceps {biceps femoris). The tendon of the long head, arising from the ischial tuberosity in common with the semitendinosus, separates from that muscle in the upper fifth of the thigh. Almost immediately after- wards it enlarges into a rounded muscular belly, which above the knee is joined by the short head, a broad fasciculus of muscular fibres springing from the outer margin of the linea aspera, the upper part of the external supracondylar line and the external intermuscular septum. The muscle terminates in a short divided tendon which is inserted into the outer surface of the head of the fibula on either side of the long part of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint, a bursa intervening. Fibres from the tendon pass forwards to the outer side of the head of the tibia and to the fascia of the leg.