ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 682 a roll whose turnings correspond with those of the tube, those for the cupola being in the centre; and, reaching the spiral canal, they enter at the spiral ganglion. This ganglion consists of bipolar cells interrupting the nerve- fibres. Emerging from this, the nerve-bundles pass obliquely through the limbus, flattened at first, but becoming cylindrical where they perforate. There they lose their medullary sheaths, and, as varicose axis-cylinders, are prolonged both to the inner and outer parts of the papilla, and in longitudinal directions beneath the rods of Corti; but further observation is desirable as to their precise method of distribution to the auditory cells. The arteries are branches of the internal auditory, and while in the modiolus form a spiral row of convolutions, glomeruli arteriosi of Schwalbe, and supply also the spiral ganglion. The returning blood is gathered to a spiral vein opposite the scala tympani. A network of vessels surrounds the whole tube, but is much closer than elsewhere on the outer wall of the canalis cochleae, internal to the spiral ligament, and in this a vessel has been described as running spirally, the vas prominens. Also vessels pass out into the limbus and the basilar membrane, and one running along beneath the papilla spiralis has been described as vas sj^irale. But the outer part of the basilar membrane is non-vascular. Development of the Ear. The external, middle and internal ear are in great measure developed independently. The internal ear takes origin from the auditor}^ pit (p. 98), which, after closure, is called the otic vesicle, whose place of entrance into the cranium becomes lost to view, save in elasmobranch fishes, where in the adult it pierces the roof. The vesicle presents a neck and a sac. The lower part of the sac is converted into cochlea and the upper part into vestibule and semicircular canals, while it is alleged that the neck remains as the endolymphatic sac and duct, though further investiga- tion is desirable both on this subject and on the origin of the semicircular canals. The formation of the canalis cochleae by retreat of the basilar membrane and membrane of Reissner from the osseous wall was pointed out many years ago by Huschke. W. His, Jun., fiiids at an early date a ganglion not confined to the formation of the spiral ganglion of the cochlea, but going to all the parts of the labyrinth which afterwards receive nerve- terminations, and including cells in connection with the facial nerve to form the geniculate ganglion. The tympanic cavity has been already stated (p. 98) to be the hypo- blastic part of the first branchial cleft, while the external meatus is the epiblastic part of the same, and the membrana tympani is in the position where epiblast and hypoblast meet in this cleft in the embryo. The origin of the ossicles has been already mentioned (p. 246). The expanded part of the pinna makes its appearance before the closure of the vertebral end of the first branchial cleft, in the form of a series of definite prominences behind, above and in front of the cleft.