107 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. the neural canal, inclosing the spinal cord and roots of spinal nerves; while^ in front of the column is the visceral cavity completely encircled in the upper part of the thorax by costal arches, into whose formation there enter vertebrae, ribs, costal cartilages and sternum. But the ribs developed in the thorax as separate bones are represented more or less distinctly in other regions by comparatively minute parts, which are incorporated in the structure of the vertebrae. Five vertebrae are united to form a bone called the sacrum, to which the pelvic bones are attached; and beyond the sacrum there are four dwindled vertebrae which tend in the adult to become fused together, and are known as the coccyx. Between the skull and the sacrum there are twenty-four vertebrae which remain distinct throughout life. There are thus thirty-three vertebrae in all. Of the twenty-four distinct or movable vertebrae, twelve have rib.s articulating with them and are called thoracic or dorsal, seven intervene between the thoracic vertebrae and the skull and are called cervical, while the remaining five, placed below the thoracic, are called lumbar. The thorax begins with the first of the vertebrae bearing ribs so prolonged as, with the aid of costal cartilages and sternum, to complete a circle or costal arch. The cervical vertebrae have rudimentary ribs or costal elements incorporated with them, and the seventh has in exceptional instances a pair articulating with it. But even in animals such as the crocodile, in which the vertebrae immediately behind the skull are provided with separable ribs, the name cervical is given to as many as intervene between the skull and the first vertebra bearing a complete costal arch. The first and second cervical vertebrae are considerably modified in connection with the movements of the head, and are called respectively atlas and axis. The vertebrae, with some exceptions at the extremities of the series, consist of three main elements which remain separate for some time after birth ; namely, a solid mesial portion, the centrum, ,y and two lateral parts which approach one another behind and are afterwards united to complete the neural arch, termed sometimes simply the arch. During childhood, the centrum and the bases of the arch become united into one solid mass, afterwards completed by a thin plate above and below, and X__,jy^ the block so constituted is the body. Thus, thouo-h Fig- iu.-thoracic vkr- . . TEBRA OF Child, with the it is customary to speak of a vertebra as consisting two sides of the arch united ^ behind, and entering 111 front of a body and an arch with processes, the body along with the centrum into / . . ••Ill the construction of the body. has entering into its composition two lateral elements or non-central parts allied in origin much more closely to the arch than to the centrum. The body of a vertebra presents, for attachment of the intervertebral discs which separate it from the bodies of the vertebrae above and below, an upper and an under fine-grained surface of dense tissue, thicker towards