MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. 341 The genio-glossus, fan-shaped, springs from the upper genial tubercle of the inferior maxilla; the fibres pass into almost the whole length of the under surface of the tongue from near the tip backwards into the glosso- epiglottic fraenum, and into the body of the hyoid bone. It lies close to the middle line, and its inner surface is in contact with that of its fellow of the opposite side; the genio-hyoid lies along its lower border, and the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus are in contact with its outer surface. Nerves. The stylo giossus, hyo-glossus, and genio-glossus are supplied by the hypoglossal nerve. Actions. The stylo glossus draws the tongue backwards and upwards, the hyo-glossus backwards and downwards. The genio-glossus depresses the tongue, and its anterior fibres retract, while its posterior fibres protrude the organ. The genio-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles of the two sides acting together and along with the palato-glossi turn up the edges and depress the centre of the tongue, and the hyo-glossus muscles oppose this action. The stylo-pharyngeus springs by a short tendon from the inner part of the base of the styloid process. Passing downwards and inwards, it becomes flattened and enters the wall of the pharynx, passing between the superior and middle constrictors. It is inserted with the palato- pharyngeus muscle chiefly into the upper and posterior edges of the thyroid cartilage, and partly into the wall of the pharynx and the side of the epiglottis. It is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and acts as an elevator of the pharynx and larynx. Relations of the supra-hyoid group of muscles. This group of muscles presents important relations to the large vessels and nerves of the upper part of the neck. The external and internal carotid arteries pass upwards to the head from the point of division of the common carotid opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage. The external, the more superficial, reaches to a spot behind the neck of the lower jaw, crossing in its course over the styloid process; the internal passes on the deep surface of the process to the carotid foramen. Along with the internal carotid artery are closely associated the internal jugular vein and the vagus or pneumogastric nerve. The stylo-hyoid muscle, springing from the base of the process, crosses along with the posterior belly of the digastric superficially to the external carotid artery ; and the stylo-pharyngeus, also from the base of the process, passes between the external and internal vessels; the stylo- glossus, from the tip of the process, does not come into actual relation with either vessel. The internal carotid artery, with its accompanying struc- tures, passes upwards in close contact with the wall of the pharynx. Three nerves pass downwards and inwards to the tongue; they are the hypoglossal, the glosso-pharyngeal, and the lingual branch of the fifth. The hypoglossal nerve crosses superficially to the external carotid artery, and in its curved course passes slightly further down in the neck than the lower margins of the stylo-hyoid and the posterior belly of the