63 BLOODVESSELS. Fig. 60.—Valves of Veins. A, vein laid open to show the two pouches of a valve; B, unopened vein showing—a, the dilatation opposite a valve ; h, a closed valve seen from distal side. tudinal muscular fibres are also found in the deeper part of the middle coat. In the middle and outer coats the elastic tissue takes mostly the form of longitudinal fibres. A remarkable peculiarity of veins consists in the presence of valves in most of them. These are thin transparent membranous folds projecting into the interior, often not visible when lying against the wall of the vein, but nevertheless of great tenacity. They are mostly arranged in pairs, which form pouches with their mouths directed towards the heart, although single folds occur, attached to the margins of veins opening into larger channels. Their free edges are straight, and their attached margins deeply curved. When the pouches are distended with fluid pushed back from the cardiac side, the parts of the folds nearest to the free edges are pressed one against the other so as completely to block the channel; and by this means regurgita- tion of blood is prevented, while also all attempts to inject fluid from the main trunk into veins furnished with such valves are rendered futile. The strength of the valves depends on white fibres regularly arranged as in aponeurosis, those nearer the edge coursing parallel to the edge, and those further back slanting in different directions so as to decussate. Their endothelial scales are elongated longitudinally on the exposed side, and transversely within the pouches. Valves are most numerous in the veins of the limbs, especially the lower. They are absent from the small veins under yWth inch in diameter, and from the pulmonary, mesenteric, splenic, portal, hepatic, renal and uterine veins, also from the ovarian vein; but they are found in the spermatic. Moreover, they are absent from the veins of the head and neck, with the exception of the subclavian and external jugular, and the opening of the internal jugular into the subclavian. Owing to the thinness of their walls, veins when empty are more easily completely flattened than arteries, and while the ordinarily con- structed arteries require accurate compression against bone to arrest the circulation in them, veins are closed against the passage of blood by every accidental pressure, such as the swelling of contracted muscles. Thus muscular action throws the blood of the limbs into the subcutaneous veins, and thus also the valves render the variations of external pressure important factors in aiding the return of the blood towards the heart, since they are effective to move it in that direction but not in the other. The thinness of the walls and the paucity of circular muscular fibres cause divided veins to gape much more than arteries, in consequence of continuity of the outer coat with loose surrounding tissue.