THE KIDNEYS. 7G5 and give olF from their sides the afferent arteries, which proceed each to a Malpighian corpuscle \Yithout branching. Also branches are given to the fibrous capsule, which anastomose with twigs of the lumbar arteries. The afferent artery on entering the Malpighian corpuscle branches several times, and the resulting vessels of the glomerulus resemble capillaries in having simple walls; but their nuclei are very abundant, their walls are thicker than those of capillaries, and they are easily stained with carmine. The efferent vessel into which the blood from the glomerulus passes is some- times termed a vein and sometimes an artery, but it has the structure of an artery, strong walls in which circular muscular fibres are a prominent feature. This efferent vessel breaks up again into capillaries, which among the convoluted tubules form a polygonal meshwork, and among the straight tubules run longitudinally with transverse communications. The vasa efferentia, emerging from the glomeruli nearest to the medullary part, differ from the others in turning towards the medullary part and dividing into straight vessels ending in capillaries which have been supposed to be the only sources of supply to that part; but though they are the principal they are not the only vessels, for vasa recta come also from the bases of the interlobular arteries and concave side of the arched arteries; and in contradistinction to these the branches of the efferent vessels are some- times called false vasa recta. The venous blood is gathered from the cortex by interlobular veins, and some form on the surface little stars (stars of Verheyen); in the medullary part straight veins take their course, and both sets are gathered into arched veins which anastomose freely in the zona intermedia. The lymphatics of the kidney consist of a sparse superficial set in the capsule and of a deep set opening into the valved vessels which emerge at the hilus. Within the renal substance lymphatics were first described by Ludwig and Zawarykin, who injected the intercommunicating spaces (1864). Eyndowsky (1872) found that the lymphatics were walled and lined with endothelium. Development. After originating in connection with the Wolffian duct (p. 96), the ureter shows thickening at its extremity, the commencement of 1 the kidney ; and already in a foetus one and a half inches long from crown j to coccyx, Malpighian corpuscles may be seen to form the greater part of its substance. A little later, when the kidney is only a sixth of an inch I long, the Malpighian corpuscles are nearly as large as in the adult, and, i together with other rounded structures which are folded dilatations of tubules and are evidently rudimentary capsules of Bowman, may, in vertical I sections of the kidney, be seen ranged in continuous series folded back- wards and forwards from surface to deep part. Convoluted tubes have been described as existing at this stage, but the convolutions are not those of the adult kidney; they present in their course the folded dilata- tions mentioned, placed more than one on a single tubule and filled with elongated columnar epithelium. The extremity of the ureter at an early