APPENDIX. ON THE UTILIZATION OF EONTGEN RAYS. fSiNCE this book was taken in hand, and even since the completion of the bulk of the manuscript, there has come before the world a revelation of the possibility of seeing structures in the interior of the living body. The part to be played in this respect by the Kontgen rays is as yet only beginning to be seen, but sufficient progress has been already accomplished to make it rash for any one to limit the amount of anatomical detail which may ultimately be displayed by their aid. Meanwhile it is fitting in this place to acknowledge the existence of an agent which may be utilized not merely in Surgery and Pathology, but in studying with accuracy the relations of healthy organs. I content myself with taking the joints at the wrist for illustration. Through the kindness of Dr. Macintyre of this city, whose successful experiments in this new branch of inquiry have already done much and are full of promise for the future, I am enabled to exhibit the shadows cast by the bones of this region when the hand is in a straight line with the pronated forearm, when it is bent over to the ulnar side as far as it will go, and when pressure is made on it in over-extension. Every ana- tomical student has already had the opportunity of seeing in the views sold in the shops that the cuneiform is not in the relation to the ulna which has generally been supposed. It is to be clearly understood at the outset, that cartilage presents no apparent hindrance to the passage of the rays, and that therefore articular surfaces, even when pressed together, exhibit a space between them. But after making allowance for the thick- ness of the articular cartilages and of the radio-ulnar triangular fibroplate, the gap between the ulna and cuneiform bone when the hand is stretched out is exceedingly remarkable. Nor is this all. The semilunar is to a considerable extent underneath the fibroplate, and its upper surface only half the vertical distance below the lower surface of the ulna that the nearest point of the cuneiform is, while the upper articular surface of the cuneiform looks more to the side than upwards. One has to recall to mind that the triangular fibroplate is not an articular cartilage, and to acknowledge that we have gone too far if we have looked on its contact