70 GENERAL ANATOMY. stitutes housemaid's knee, and another at the olecranon, the inflammation of which is called miner's elbow. A theca differs from a bursa in more completely investing a tendon or tendons, and in being bound down by the strong fibres which complete the canal in which the tendons are made to move freely by its aid. A tendon may be completely surrounded by the membrane, the investing portion of the theca not being continuous with the parietal, save at its extremities, where the one part turns on the other like the finger of a glove reflected on itself, or the tendinous and parietal layers may be connected by bands of connection, vincula. The radical similarity of synovial membranes of joints, bursae and thecae is well illustrated by the bursa under the subscapularis muscle and the theca of the long head of the biceps flexor radialis, both being prolongations of the synovial membrane of the shoulder joint. Bursae and thecae have not even the imperfect endothelial lining described in connection with synovial membranes of joints. Pacinian corpuscles (p. 81) have been found in con- nection with bursae and sheaths of tendons. INTEGUMENTS. The integuments consist of the tough vascular and sensitive corium covered superficially with a stratified epithelium, the epidermis, and passing on its deep aspect gradually into subcutaneous areolar tissue. The subcutaneous areolar tissue or superficial fascia varies in amount and density in different parts of the body. In the eyelids, in the penis in the male, and in the nymphae in the female, it is free from adipose tissue; but in other parts it is pervaded with it, constituting the rete adiposum, which reaches its greatest development in the gluteal region. The sub^ cutaneous tissue in most places permits a gliding movement of the skin on the deeper parts; but in the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, vertically placed bundles knit the skin inseparably to the palmar and plantar aponeurosis; and the scalp is in like manner bound down Fig. 65.—Cutaneous Ligaments of Phalanges of finger, a, The strong parts of the sheaths of the flexor tendons ; hb, insertions of ligaments. to the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. Also from the sides of the phalanges in both hand and foot, as I have pointed out (1867)^ there extend obliquely upwards from the lower ends, and downwards