213 THE FEONTAL BONE. d Fig. 199.—Frontal from below, a, Ethmoidal simises ; h, nasal spine ; c, frontal sinus; d, trochlear depression ; e, supra- orbital notch ; /, lachrymal fossa ; g, external angular process ; h, for malar ; i, for sphenoid great wing; k, internal orbital canals ; I, superior longitudinal sinus ; m, for sphenoid small wing. there is a median elevation over the nose, called the glahella. The inferior limit of the frontal surface between it and the orbit is called the orbital arch, and presents in its inner half the supra-orhUal notch, sometimes converted into a foramen, and sometimes double, transmitting the supra-orbital nerve and artery. The inner ex- tremity of the arch is sometimes called the m- ternal angular process, while the outer end is the external angular process, a stout projection already men- tioned as articulating with the malar. The outer margin of this process is formed by the temporal ridge, which passes upwards and backwards to be continued on the parietal bone, and separates the forehead from the temporal fossa. The orbital surfaces are triangular, their inner edges parallel, and their outer edges at right angles one to the other. Under cover of the external angular process lies a depression, fovea laclirijmalis, in which is lodged the lachrymal gland; and beneath the inner end of the arch there is a small indented pit, fovea trochlearis, marking the position of the pulley of the tendon of the superior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The cerebral surface presents a continuous concavity, into the floor of which there project two convexities over the orbits, more dimpled by cerebral convolutions than the rest of the surface, and consisting opposite these dimples, as also posteriorly, of a single plate of bone without diploe. In the middle line, at the base of the frontal spine, is a groove completed by the crista galli of the ethmoid into a foramen (/. caecum)^ containing a minute vein opening into the commencement of the superior longitudinal sinus, and over this is the frontal crest broadening out into a mesial groove continuous above with that formed by the two parietals. Depressions caused by Pacchionian bodies may be seen on each side. THE SPHENOID BONE'. The sphenoid bone, occupying the middle of the base of the skull and spreading outwards on the sides, articulates with all the other cranial bones, as also with the palatals, malars and vomer. Owing to the remarkable manner in which the human cranium is curved on itself to make room by extension of the roof for the great size of the cerebral hemispheres, the sphenoid is compressed from before backwards; but the ordinary mammalian arrangement is that the sphenoid consists of two