THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. 525 circumstances, the accessory obturator; in addition, from the first three trunks small twigs are detached to the psoas and quadratus muscles. The ilio-hypogastric and the ilio-inguinal arise by a common trunk from the first lumbar nerve; the genito-crural takes origin by separate roots from the second and third; the obturator springs from the anterior parts of the second, third, and fourth nerves; the external cutaneous arises from the posterior parts of the second and third nerves; the anterior crural is derived from the posterior parts of the second, third, and fourth; the accessory obturator, when present, springs by one or more roots from the obturator nerve or from the lower part of the plexus. Exi Obturator Connecting branch to fifth himbar Fig. 390.—Diagram of the Lumbar Plexus, a, Communicating branches to sym- pathetic ; b, to psoas and quadratus muscles. (J. Y. M.) The ilio-hypogastric nerve emerges from the outer border of the psoas^ and, descending obliquely towards the iliac crest, crosses in front of the quadratus lumborum; it then pierces the transversalis and detaches its iliac or lateral branch. The remainder of the nerve courses forwards and downwards, passing through the internal oblique, and finally emerges as an anterior cutaneous nerve, about an inch above the superficial ab- dominal ring. Muscular branches are supplied to the three broad muscles of the abdominal wall, and to the rectus and the pyramidalis; connecting huigs pass to the ilio-inguinal and occasionally to the last dorsal. The iliac hranch, after piercing the internal and external oblique muscles, crosses the crest of the ilium about two inches behind the anterior superior spine. Its branches, which all pass to the integument, descend as far as the level of the great trochanter, forming connections with those of the lateral branch of the last dorsal nerve in front, and the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves behind. The ilio-inguinal nerve is more slender than the ilio-hypogastric, beneath