618 THE BRAIN. recess from a pia-matral surface, it has not been followed by the pia mater, and its walls present only a delicate network of vessels embedded in brain- substance, presenting on the surface a scattered layer of corpuscles which may be looked on as epithelioid. The fornix, when looked at from above, with its adhesion to the corpus callosum unbroken, presents the appearance of an arched triangular lamina of white substance, the hody resting on a deep projection of pia mater of corresponding extent, the velum interpositum. The margins of this triangular body are concave, the lateral being free, with the hypervascular fringe of the velum interpositum, the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles, projecting beyond them, and the posterior being attached to the corpus callosum, as is also the mesial part of the dorsum, while the anterior angle is prolonged into two round pillars or aiiterior crura, and the two posterior angles form a pair of posterior crura prolonged each into a flat ribbon, the fimbria or taenia hippocampi. The posterior crura of the fornix lie in front of the splenium of the corpus callosum, one on each side, separated by the velum interpositum from the upper surface of the posterior tubercle of the optic thalamus. The taenia hippocampi, extending outwards beyond the optic thalamus and corpus callosum, turns forwards round the crus cerebri to lie in the floor of what is called the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, with the choroid plexus entering from the exterior between it and the crus cerebri, while its attached border is continuous superiorly with a convexity of the floor of the descending cornu named hippocampus major, and in- feriorly with the grey convoluted surface of the hemisphere. Its fibres in a fresh brain can often be seen spreading obliquely on the hippocampus major, and apparently they make for the cortex of the temporal lobe. The pillars or anterior crura of the fornix descend side by side between the corpora striata in front of the taenia semicircularis and behind the anterior white commissure, separating as they descend, so that the com- missure is seen between them from behind; then turning backwards each becomes covered with the grey lining of the third ventricle on its own side and dips to the corresponding corpus albiccms, whose main bulk it seems, as seen in dissection, to form by twisting abruptly inwards, forwards and upwards, before it is continued upwards and backwards as the bundle of Viccpd^Azyr to the optic thalamus, in the deep part of which it spreads outwards horizontally. Thus, the fornix unites the optic thalamus and temporal lobe of the same side. But the corpora albicantia (mammillaria) are not mere twistings of the pillars of the fornix; they contain grey matter, and experiment would appear to show that the bundle of Yicq-d'Azyr is not directly continuous with the fibres of the pillars of the fornix. Also, there is a bundle passing backwards from each of the corpora albicantia to the inner part of the crusta; and these bodies not only represent a more developed mesial body in lower vertebrates, but are comparatively large in the foetus.