182 THE SKELETON. The external cuneiform projects forwards beyond the middle cuneiform^ and is much longer than broad. Its articular surface for the scaphoid looks backwards and inw^ards, and is smaller than the anterior, which articulates with the third metatarsal bone. The inner side has an articular part in front of the posterior margin to articulate with the middle cuneiform, and a narrower articular facet at its anterior margin for the second metatarsal, while it is rough in the intermediate extent. The outer side looks towards the cuboid, and in its posterior part articulates broadly with it. The cuboid is longest on its inner side, which is in large part rough,, but articulates in the middle of its extent with the external cuneiform by means of a broad articular surface descending from the upper margin, and has some- times a small articular facet further back for the scaphoid. Posteriorly, it articulates by a saddle-shaped surface with the calcaneum, and has a conical process projecting back from its lower and outer angle. Anteriorly, it presents an articular surface divided into two facets corresponding with the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Externally, it is short and reduced in height, and is grooved for the tendon of the peroneus longus. Inferiorly, this- groove is continued inwards across the fore part, and in front of a prominent thick ridge which gives attachment to the long plantar ligament and the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. Fig. its.—Left Cuboid. A, Plantar view. B, Dorsal view, p, Posterior surface ; a, anterior surface ; o, outer surface ; c, conical process ; g, groove for peroneus longus. The Metatarsus. The first metatarsal bone, that which belongs to the great toe, is. shorter but much more massive than any of the four others. The base extends the whole height of the inner side of the transverse arch which is formed by the bases of the five together; it articulates with the internal cuneiform bone by a vertically elongated surface indented on its outer side, and presents a tuberosity below, which continues forwards the thick ridge formed by those of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform. This tuberosity presents on its inner side a smooth impression, com- pleting with that on the internal cuneiform the mark of insertion of the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle, and on its outer side a larger and rougher impression where the tendon of the peroneus longus i& inserted. The large rounded head is in height about equal to its breadth; on its lower part it presents two grooves for two large sesamoid bones