MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. 845 bones, the supra-mastoid ridge of the temporal bone, and the zygomatic arch. It is a single sheet above, but splits into two about two inches from its lower margin, and a little fat lies between the layers as they descend to the outer and inner surfaces of the zygoma. On the deep surface of the lower part of the fascia a quantity of soft fatty tissue lies between it and the temporal muscle. The masseteric fascia is a moderately strong layer which covers the masseter muscle, and is continued forwards from the fascia of the parotid gland. Anteriorly it passes into a more delicate layer which overlies the buccinator. On the surface of the buccinator a quantity of soft fatty tissue, "the buccal pad," peculiarly well developed in children, lies under- neath the fascia, and is continuous on the deep surface of the ramus with the fat under the temporal fascia. MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. General description and relations. The pharynx, the dilated upper extremity of the digestive tube, is open in front to the nose, mouth, and larynx, and is attached to the base of the skull above. At the sides and behind, its walls are formed by aponeurotic tissue, covered internally by a mucous membrane and externally by a layer of muscles, the chief of which are the three constrictors, superior, middle, and inferior. Each is formed of lateral portions, which meet in the middle line behind in a central raphe continued down from the basilar process. They partially overlap one another from below upwards. The lower margin of the inferior constrictor embraces the oesophagus; its upper margin slopes upwards and backwards on the surface of the middle constrictor to reach the middle line above the level of the hyoid bone. The lower fibres of the middle constrictor descend under cover of the inferior muscle for some distance; its upper fibres ascending as far as the base of the skull cover in turn a portion of the superior muscle. The fibres of the superior constrictor are chiefly horizontal in direction; it reaches to the base of the skull in the middle line only, and in the interval between its upper margin and the skull the pharyngeal aponeurosis is stronger than elsewhere. The Eustachian tube and the levator palati pass over the upper border of the superior constrictor to enter the pharynx, the stylo-pharyngeus passes between the superior and middle constrictors, and the inferior laryngeal nerve ascends below the lower border of the inferior constrictor. The back of the pharynx lies upon the vertebral bodies and prevertebral muscles; the great vessels and nerves of the upper part of the neck lie by its sides. Supernumerary muscular slips passing to the wall of the pharynx are frequently found; they may arise from the spine of the sphenoid, the internal pterygoid plate, the under surface of the petrous bone, the basilar process, or the mastoid process. The inferior constrictor arises from the side of the cricoid cartilage, and from the ala and upper border of the thyroid cartilage in the region