THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 418 with it in front of the ear. The common temporal vein is behind and superficial to the artery as it crosses the zygoma. Branches. The transverse facial artery arises in the substance of the parotid gland, and runs horizontally forwards above the duct of Stenson. It anastomoses with the facial, infraorbital, and buccal arteries. The middle temporal pierces the temporal fascia and the temporal muscle immediately above the zygoma, and ascends upon the surface of the bone, supplying the muscle and anastomosing with the deep temporal arteries. Auricular arteries, two or three in number, supply the fore part of the cartilage of the ear, anastomosing with the posterior auricular artery. The anterior temporal branch, directed upwards and forwards, ramifies over the anterior part of the lateral region of the scalp, anastomosing with branches of the ophthalmic artery; this is the branch usually chosen for temporal blood-letting. The posterior temporal branch, larger than the anterior, is directed upwards and backwards, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. The internal maxillary artery (Figs. 320, 321) springs from the termination of the external carotid artery immediately below the neck of the lower jaw. From its origin, where it is concealed in the substance of the parotid gland, it passes forwards, upwards, and inwards. In the first part of its course, accompanied by the internal maxillary vein, it passes on the deep surface of the ramus of the jaw, along the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle, crossing superficially the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation and the inferior dental nerve. In the second part of its course it passes through the zygomatic fossa to the space between the heads of the external pterygoid muscle, crossing sometimes on the superficial and sometimes on the deep surface of the lower of the two heads of the muscle; in the former case it lies on the deep aspect of the temporal muscle at its insertion; in the latter it crosses the lingual nerve, and the internal pterygoid muscle, and emerges below the buccal nerve. In the third part of its course it passes through the pterygo-maxillary fissure to the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it breaks up into a number of branches. Numerous veins surround the second and third parts of the artery. The branches of the first part of the artery enter bony foramina. The tympanic passes through the fissure of Glaser, ramifies on the walls of the tympanum, and anastomoses with the stylo mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. The middle meningecd, a branch of considerable size, runs upwards on the deep surface of the external pterygoid muscle, passes be- tween the heads of the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enters the skull by the foramen spinosum. Within the cranium, after detaching some small offsets which supply the Gasserian ganglion and enter the petrous bone, it con- tinues upwards towards the anterior and lower angle of the parietal bone, where it divides into two branches which ramify upon the inner surface of