42 GENERAL ANATOMY. circumstances to another variety named syntonin, soluble in dilute muriatic acid. Microscopic structure. Smooth or unstriped muscle consists of separate nucleated corpuscles, usually termed fibre cells. These are flat and elon- gated, with pointed extremities more or less drawn out. Their substance Fig. 36.—Unstriped Muscular Fibre-Cells from various situations. is nearly structureless, but may exhibit a slight indication of longitudinal lines. They tear easily across, and, when isolated, tend to fall into zigzag folds, with parts lying flat between. They have no cell-wall. The nucleus is elongated, often rod-shaped. The fibre-cells are of very diff'erent sizes in diff'erent localities, reaching yJo^h inch in length in the stomach and intestines, and a greater development in the pregnant uterus, while in the iris and other places they are very much smaller. Nor are they always of the same shape; occasionally they show bifidity, and they vary in proportional breadth, those of the longitudinal layer of the intestine being narrower than the some- what shorter fibres of the circular layer. In situations where they are well developed they tend to adhere in longitudinal bundles bound together with cement. In the stomach and intestines they are supported by a network of fine elastic fibres. The nerves of smooth muscle form a net- work from which branches were traced by Klebs, Frankenhausen and J. Arnold, more than twenty-five years ago, to the nucleus of the fibre- cell ; but others have failed to verify the observation. Striped or striated muscle consists of cylindrical or polj^gonal fibres of complex constitution and indefinite length, which present for considera- tion contractile substance, nuclei, and a sheath or sarcolemma. The best developed striped fibres are those of the limbs and trunk, and may reach a breadth of 4J^th inch. Others, as in the face, may be narrower than ■goVo-th inch. In the tongue there are vertically placed fibres branching to the surface with ramifications of much greater tenuity. It has been alleged that the length of a fibre generally does not exceed IJ inches, and that rounded ends of fibres may be seen in muscular fasciculi; but such statements are to be received with caution. The undoubted ter- minations of muscular fibre in tendon are irregular rather than rounded, Fig. 37. — Unstriped Muscular Fibre-Cell, coiled 2^ times round in the wall of a minute artery, nnd showing an elongated oval nucleus. (Lister.)