404 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. a complex arrangement of muscular elevations, which project into the cavities, and are termed columnae carneae. Some of these are simply pro- jecting muscular ridges; others are attached to the wall at their extremities, and are free in their intermediate portions; others again, specially named the musculi papillares, are definitely arranged muscular projections attached basally to the wall in the region of the apex, and giving origin at their free extremities to a number of delicate tendons, the chordae tendineae, which pass to the margins and ventricular surfaces of the segments of the auriculo-ven- tricular valves. During the ventricular systole, the musculi papillares contract along with the walls of the ventricles, and the tightened chordae tendineae prevent the retroflexion into the auricles of the segments of the valves, which, applied to one another, and thus maintained in position, close the orifices. The right ventricle occupies the greater part of the anterior surface and right border of the heart, and only a small portion of the posterior surface. Behind and below it rests upon the diaphragm, the central tendon of which is united with the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Viewed from the front it presents a triangular surface prolonged at the upper angle, the conus arteriosus or infundibulum, into the pulmonary artery. Except in the region of the infundibulum the inner surface of the wall presents a close reticulation of columnae carneae. The musculi papillares form two groups, respectively anterior and posterior in position. A fleshy band which is frequently found stretching across the cavity of the ventricle, from the septum downwards to the base of the anterior papillary muscles, is named the moderator band. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is placed a little below and to the right of that of the pulmonary Valve of Thebesius Fig. 310.—The Auriculo-Ventricular and Arterial Valves, seen from above and behind after section through the auricles and arteries. (C. Gegenbaur.) artery. The auriculo-ventricular orifice admits three fingers placed side by side. The valve which guards it, the tricuspid valve, is formed of three cusps, of which two are lateral and one is mesial in position; they may be named the anterior and posterior lateral, and the septal. From the anterior papillary muscles chordae tendineae pass to the angle between the two