THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. 599 Transverse portions of fibres. The transverse fibres of the pons Varolii are seen in transverse sections to be platted somewhat in the mesial plane, so as to take a deeper course on one side than the other. The same arrangement is manifest to a much greater extent in ordinary dissection at the upper and lower borders. The strands also decussate in an upward and downward direction, the oblique band already noticed having others parallel to it placed more deeply. Thus it is certain that the fibres do not unite corresponding portions of the cere- bellum. Some of the deepest fibres lie on one side behind the fibres from the anterior pyramids, and on the other in front of them; and their decussation gives in transverse section the appearance of a pro- jecting point, while, in the same way, others pass on one side behind, and, on the other, in front of a deeper longitudinal band, the fillet, causing by their decussation a projection backwards. Transverse fibres are abundant Posterior quadrigeminal bodies Aqueduct of Sylvius Posterior longitudinal bundles Raphe of pons Reticular formation _ "' - - ^ Pyramidal bundles, Upper border of pons ,..S'£-> - .Fillet dividing Superior crus cerebelli -■--Olivary fasciculus -- Inferior crus cerebelli Olivary body Anterior pyramid Fig. 433.—Pons Detached from Cerebellum and Reflected from the Fillets and Posterior Longitudinal Bundles. in the medulla oblongata also. They form, along with neuroglia, the raiohe^ as they course backwards or forwards in the mesial plane; and they are distinguished as the superficial and deep arched fibres. The superficial set escape from the raphe in front, and cross the anterior pyramid and the ohvary body, or the olivary body only, as they pass back to join the restiform body. Of the deep arched fibres a number pass through the hilum into the capsule of the olivary nucleus, and some of these, together with others, run, hke the superficial set, to the restiform body, and so to the cerebellum, while their inferior connections are undeter- mined. A large number more of the deep fibres pass backwards and downwards to the nucleus cuneatus and nucleus gracilis, while, traced in the other direction, they are found to be continued upwards on the opposite side in the band called the fillet, going to the corpora quadri- gemina, and form, as they cross the mesial plane, the already mentioned decussation of the fillets. Longitudinal fibres. The anterior pyramids have their fibres continued up into the pons Varolii, first as a pair of round bundles and afterwards