186 THE SKELETON. The obtundor memhram may be conveniently described in this place : it has, howerer, no connection witli any articnlation. but is simply part of the pelvic walL It is a fibrous septum stretching across the obturator foramen and leaving, opposite the obturator groove of the anterior ramus of the pubic bone, an opening for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. Movements of pelvis. Only in such positions as sitting on the ground or crouching down on the balls of the toes, with the column bent forwards, is sacrum placed with its base upwards so as to press downwards in the form of a wedge like the keystone of an arch. In the upright position, the ventral borders of the auricular surfaces look directly downwards, the weight of the body falls immediately in front of them, and the dorsal sacro-iliac ligaments are made tense, as is weU illustrated in pelvises deformed by rachitis, in which the parts of the iTinr.- ^ ": :i.f5 gifting attachment to those ligaments are bent in over the dorsum of the sacrum. The sacral attachments of these ligaments^ together with the slight projections of the auricular surfaces of the sacrum^ famish the axis round which the sacrum rotates, the base being pressed do^_ weight of the body, and the apex tilting upwards. The up^::^ " t>f tlis apex of the sacrum tightens the sacro-sciatic and terminal sacro-iliac ligaments, and is limited by them. In its second and third vertebrae the sacrum is wider at the ventral than at the dorsal margios of the auricular surfaces, and the tilting up of the apex sKghtly separates the iUac bones -^v-iie :ie symphysis pubis forms the hinge of the movement. The same movement takes place to a greater extent in parturition, the child s head pressing directly on the apex of the sacrum before pressing the coccyx back. Eut it is also true that the ligaments of the symphysis are liable to elongate before parturition, and thereby allow a certain enlargement of the brim of the pelvis. The Hrp-JorsT. This is a ball-and-socket joint, the curves of the articular surfaces being spherical or nearly so. Besides a capsule surrounding it, the joint presents a cotyloid and a round ligament within the capsule. The cdyloid Ugamerd is a prominent tough fibrous rim surrotmding the acetabulum, its fibres taking origin from the prominent margin of the cup all round, and bridging over the notch by a part distinguished as the tmnMerse ligament, in which three sets of fibres can be distinguished, namely, two sets arising from the margins of the notch and decussating, and a third set superficial to them and passing straight across. The round ligament (Jigamentum teres) is a distinct cord of fibres rounded at its attachment to the pit of the head of the femur, and extending thence down to the margins of the notch and to the deep edge of the trans- xerse ligament, smrounded by a pillar of synovial membrane. It lies in the non-articular part of the acetabulura.