233 THE MALAK BONE. ■downwards arid forwards, forming the outer and part of the lower border of the orbit; while the posterior and more external extends between the frontal and zygomatic processes, and has a double curve,, convex above, concave below, and gives attachment to the temporal fascia. Looked at on the deep side, it presents three surfaces, separated by ridges; namely, a surface continued from the inner side of the zygomatic pro- ■cess, longitudinally hollowed so as to complete the temporal and zygomatic fossae, and extending as far forwards as a line from the inferior angle to the tip of the frontal process; secondly, an orbital surface extending back from the orbital margin; and thirdly, a jagged triangular surface for articulation with the maxilla, intervening between the two others below, and sometimes continuous with an articular margin between them for the sphenoid, but more frequently separated from it by a very short free edge completing the anterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The articu- lation with the sphenoid separates the orbit from the temporal fossa, and is continuous with the stout serrated articular surface for the frontal bone. The malar canal, a small passage for the malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve, begins on the orbital surface and ends on the superficial surface, a little above its greatest prominence or tuberosity. Another -aperture, the temporal canal, pierces the orbital plate higher up and gives passage to the temporal twig of the superior maxillary nerve. The occurrence of a suture dividing the upper and inner part of the malar from the lower and outer is rarely met with in European -skulls, but, in the Japanese, has been seen with unusual frequency, extending from the maxillary margin, sometimes upwards to the orbital, sometimes backwards to the upper margin of the zygomatic process. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachrymal bone (os unguis) is a delicate scale on the inner side of the orbit, in front of the os planum of the ethmoid. It is grooved in its fore part to complete with the nasal process of the maxilla the depression which lodges the lachrymal sac, and articulates above with the frontal, and below with the orbital plate of the maxilla, while from its grooved part a Imver process is prolonged into the canal for the nasal duct, and reaches down to the inferior turbinated bone. The groove is limited behind by a crest which at its lower end is sometimes more or less prolonged round the entrance of the canal for the nasal duct in the form of a hamiilar process. The lachrymal bone is often deficient or ■cribriform. In many mammals it is a more important bone, coming forwards on the face. THE INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. The inferior turbinated bone separates the middle from the inferior meatus of the nose. It curves inwards and downwards from its attachments.