764 THE URINARY ORGANS. The tiibuli contorti begin by a somewhat constricted neck, one from each capsule of Bowman. They are so winding in their course as to give the granular appearance to the cortex. They are about 4 J^^h inch or more in diameter and have a dense cubical epithelium, presenting a vertically striated or rod-like structure, with the limits of their corpuscles indistinct, while their nuclei are obscured by the turbidity of their protoplasm. Each convoluted tubule ends by turning inwards, forming what has been described as the spiral tiihe, and narrowing to the loop of Henle. The loop of Henle is a constricted section of the uriniferous tubule, extending in a straight course far into the Malpighian pyramid and then abruptly turning back in an equally direct manner to the cortex. Its entering or descending limb is narrower than its emerging limb, being reduced to about ttoVo^^ ttoo^^^ inoh in diameter, while the emerging limb is more than twice as wide. In the entering limb the epithelium is scpiamous, in the emerging limb it is more nearly cubical. The intercalary or second convoluted tulmle is in its greater part somewhat similar in character to the first convoluted tubule, but its convolution is less and its cells less turbid. Towards its termination, however, it becomes narrower and its epithelium clear; and this part is what has been called the jiinctioncd tube, because it terminates the course of the simple tubule by opening into a collecting tubule. The collecting tuhdes in the outer part of the Malpighian pyramid are about 6"Jo^^ moh. in diameter, and each receives in the medullary ray junctional tubes one after another. As they near the papilla they join together and enlarge, until papillary tubes are formed as much as TrJ^th inch in diameter. They have clear cubical epithelium with distinct nuclei and distinct boundary lines between the individual corpuscles. The papillary tubes gather into groups which open into from ten to twenty depressions on the papilla, which may be seen with a lens.i Each medullary ray receives the tubules which spring from the Mal- pighian corpuscles around and invest it superficially and on every side, and thus is constituted a simple lobule often spoken of as a pyramid of Ferrein. Bloodvessels. The renal artery divides as it approaches the hilus into several branches, which, entering in front of the pelvis and passing in between its divisions, continue to bifurcate in the fat between the calyces and in the columns of Bertin, and end in numerous arched arteries in the zona intermedia, without, however, completing arches by anastomosis. From the convexities of these the radiating or interlobular arteries arise which are directed toward the surface between the pyramids of Ferrein, ^ It ought to be explained that much of the microscopic structure of the kidney is "by no means easy to verify, and in particular the sequence of the different parts of the tubules, though generally assented to as determined mainly by the researches of Ludwig and of Schweiger-Seidel, following up those of Henle, is difficult, and requires the examination of the kidneys of infants and of small animals.