THE HEART. 403 The ventricular portion of the heart. Each of the two chambers into which it is divided presents two basally placed orifice?, the auriculo- ventricular and the arterial, both of which are guarded by valves. The auriculo-ventricidar valve, in each case, is formed of fibrous cusps or segments, pointed and free at their extremities, which project into the cavity, and confluent at their bases, where they form an annular membrane attached to the margin of the opening. The arterial valve, in each case, is made up of three semicircular segments (semilunar or sigmoid) formed of fibrous tissue, and attached by their convex borders to the wall of the artery at the place where it springs from the ventricle, while their free borders, which are nearly straight, project into the cavity. The free border of each segment is strengthened by a delicate fibrous band, and immediately below the middle of the margin there is a small thickening, the nodulus or corpus Arantii; the thinnest portions of each segment lie immediately below the lateral portions of the free border, and are named the lunidae. Opposite each segment there is a pouch or sinus of the wall of the vessel, which completes, with the corresponding segment of the valve, the wall of a cup; the pouches are termed the sinuses of Valsalva. When the ventricles are con- tracting and the blood is passing through the arterial orifices, the segments are applied to the walls of the sinuses ; during the ventricular diastole regurgitation of blood from the arteries is prevented by the closure of the valves, the nodules coming into contact, and the lunulae of neighbouring segments overlapping. The ventricular wall attains its maximum diameter, except in the case of the septum, about the junction of the basal and middle thirds. The wall of the left ventricle is two or three times thicker than that of the right. The septum, in its greater part, has almost the same diameter as the wall of the left ventricle, but is thickest in the region of the apex. It is somewhat curved, its right side being convex, while its left is concave, and, as a result, the outhne of the right ventricle, in section, is crescentic, while that of the left is oval or circular. At its upper or basal portion the septum is in line, dorsally, with the inter-auricular septum, and intervenes between the auriculo-ventricular openings; further forwards it separates the right auriculo-ventricular from the aortic orifice; and still more ventrally, it passes between the posterior margin of the pulmonary and the anterior margin of the aortic orifice. As the septal cusp of the right auriculo-ventricular opening is placed a little lower than the anterior cusp of the left orifice, the septum intervenes for a short distance near its posterior part between the right auricle and the left ventricle. Immediately in front of the area last described, and close to the hinder margin of the right segment of the aortic valve, there is a small portion of the septum, the pars membranacea, which is very thin, and contains no muscular fibres; in abnormal circumstances it is occasionally deficient, permitting a com- munication between the ventricles. The inner surface of the ventricular wall presents, in its greater part,