GENERAL ANATOMY. 34 out against it and embedded as osteoblasts, while others are converted into marrow-cells. Deeper down in the marrow-spaces, bloodvessels are found; but I have never seen the capillaries nearest to the ossifying edge ending in walled loops as sometimes figured, nor is it conceival)le that they do so while vascularity is advancing. On the contrary, the walls widen out and die away so as to make the interiors of the vessels continuous with the corpuscular contents of the marrow-spaces. In some instances the contents of the cartilage-capsules, instead of freely proliferating, become branched, while mineralized deposit takes place within the capsule, as was originally shown by Kolliker in rachitis; and thus nodules of bone are formed corresponding in extent with cartilage-capsules, and having branched corpuscles in the interior. At one time the view was advanced by Loven, and for a while gained support, that the cartilage-corpuscles degenerate and are removed, taking no part in the formation of bone. But this is certainly a mistake. I have often seen the cartilage-corpuscles taking part in ossification in the two ways now mentioned, viz., most frequently proliferating freely so as to produce a swarm of osteoblasts and marrow-cells, in other instances becoming embedded as branched corpuscles within a clear ball of mineralized matrix corresponding in extent with the capsule. The preparatory alterations in cartilage about to ossify are by no means always so complex as in the shafts of bones already considerably ossified. More generally the matrix becomes granular round the capsules without the capsules being arranged in columns. This is the case in the first deposit of mineral- ized matter in the shafts of long bones, in the vertebrae and other short bones, and in the epiphyses of the shafted bones. In the first appearance of ossification in shafts of bones, the whole thickness of the shaft is converted into calcified cartilage, in the form of a network of globes containing the corpuscles imprisoned within them.; and before this has become converted into true bone, already a sheath of bone derived from the periosteum surrounds it. Absorption of the mineralized walls of capsules, with proliferation of their contents, forthwith proceeds, and bloodvessels piercing from the periosteum enter the primitive marrow-spaces formed by inter-communication of cap- sules. In the epiphyses of the long bones and in the carpal and tarsal bones, the ossification is at first completely surrounded by cartilage pierced by channels containing bloodvessels, one or more of which are enlarged in connection with the first appearance of ossification. Thus, in all bone, vessels pass in from the outside, and in ossification from cartilage they Fig. 33.—First Point of Cal- cification of cartilage in shaft of humerus of human embryo of two months. (Kolliker.)