746 THE EESPIRATORY ORGANS. or incomplete rings, from about sixteen to twenty in number, with rect- ! angular extremities resting on the oesophagus. These rings are not quite I regular, some being single at one end and double at the other, and | occasionally two being joined together in the middle. The lowest has a i branch descending in the middle, separating the two bronchi. They are ; flat on their superficial aspect, and more convex on the deep. | The rings are joined together by a distinctly elastic fibrous membrane surrounding their perichondrium, and forming a continuous sheet behind. On removing the fibrous membrane at the back, a layer of unstriped muscle is brought into view, arranged in transverse bundles attached to the fibrous membrane inside the extremities of the cartilages and also between them. Loose tissue lies between the muscular layer and the mucous membrane, but, .except at the back part, is very limited in amount. The proper substance of the mucous membrane is very thin and firm, and in close contact with the deep surface there is a strong coat of longitudinal yellow-elastic fibres visible with the naked eye, forming bands internal to the cartilages, and still stronger behind, where they give the interior of the trachea a character- istic longitudinally striated appearance. The epithelium is stratified columnar ciliated, the deepest corpuscles small ! and rounded, those of the intermediate stratum spindle-shaped, prolonged at both extremities into a thread, while the superficial corpuscles are elongated and ciliated. The surface is studded with open- i ings of ducts of small lobulated glands, the largest of which are in the posterior wall and are seen in the dissection of the fibrous and muscular layers. Those on the front and sides open between the rings, and occupy the depressions between successive rings, spreading on the deep side of their upper and lower margins. The acini are mostly, but not all, of the mucous character, and the secreting cells elongated columnar. THE LUNGS. The lungs correspond in general form with the pleural cavities, being ; convex laterally, posteriorly and superiorly, but hollowed out internally where j in contact with the pericardium, and inferiorly where they rest on the diaphragm. They present each a sharp edge in front intruded between the pericardium and the thoracic wall, and another surrounding the base ■ or diaphragmatic surface, so as to separate it from the external, internal | and posterior surfaces. The upper part or apex reaches up through the | first costal arch so far as to have in front of it, above, the subclavian artery where that vessel arches outwards in the first part of its course. i ;i