SPINAL CORD. 587 tinued into anterior roots of nerves. They are arranged in groups, especially toward the extremity of the cornu, and those of the lateral cornu form a similar group adjacent to them. The posterior cornu, less swollen and, save in the lumbar enlargement, more elongated than the anterior, is less marked by nerve-cells. It presents in transverse section a slight bulbous swelling, supported by a neck, and extending to the jDOstero-lateral groove, where it receives the posterior nerve-roots. Toward the tip it presents in the fresh state a semi-transparent portion, the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando, in which there is a transverse band of very small roundish corpuscles. The other nerve-corpuscles of the posterior cornu are mostly toward its margins, and are sparse, larger than those of the substantia gelatinosa, though much smaller than those of the anterior cornu. But along with the posterior cornu there is to be noticed a very definite collection of nerve- corpuscles, the posterior vesicular column of Lockhart Clarke, lying close to the inner side of its neck, with fine fibres curving round it. This column is almost confined to the region of the cord connected with the thoracic roots. Its cells are multipolar, normally smaller in transverse section than those of the anterior cornu, but considerably longer vertically. Flechsig pointed it out as the source of the direct ascending cerebellar tract, and Cajal has traced some of its axis-cylinders into that part of the lateral column, while he has followed others into the anterior com- missure. Gaskell considers it as probably the source of the splanchnic eff'erent nerves. a b c Fig. 425.—Ascending Degeneration in Posterior Column of Spinal Cord in Dogs, after division of posterior nerve-roots. I. After division, by Singer, from 2nd sacral to 6th lumbar : a, at level of 6th lumbar ; b, of 3rd thoracic ; c. of middle of neck. II. After division, by Singer, of 11th and 12th thoracic : o., at level of 12th thoracic ; J>, of 3rd thoracic; c, of middle of the neck. III. After division, by Kahler, from oth cervical to 2nd thoracic : a, at level of 1st thoracic ; b, of 6th cervical; c, of 1st cervical. (Toldt.) The nerve-roots. The anterior nerve-roots consist of fibres mostly, if not all of them, from the axis-cylinders of the multipolar corpuscles of