559 THE SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. region lies at the base of the anterior horn, but which, when followed upwards, gradually assumes a more ventral position. The bulbar or accessory portion joins the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus : and most of the fil)res pass into the cardiac, inferior and superior laryngeal, and pharyngeal branches. The fibres which it conveys to the vagus are believed to be partly cardiac inhibitory and partly motor for the muscles of the larynx and pharynx and some of those of the palate. The spinal portion (Fig. 379) assists in the supply of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. It passes backwards and downwards, crossing, as a rule, the deep surface of the internal jugular vein, and lying between the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the transverse process of the atlas. Continuing its course it passes through the sterno-mastoid muscle, crosses obliquely the posterior triangle of the neck, and gains the deep surface of the trapezius, upon which it descends, gradually diminishing in size as its branches enter the muscle. On the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid it is joined by a branch of the second cervical nerve, and on the deep surface of the trapezius by tw^o or three branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves. THE TWELFTH OR HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. The hypoglossal nerve (Fig. 413) takes origin by ten or twelve root bundles which spring from the side of the medulla oblongata in the furrow between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. Nucleus of origin. The fibres spring from a large nucleus which lies close to the middle line, beneath the floor of the hinder part of the fourth ventricle, and extends backwards through the closed portion of the medulla, along the ventro-lateral margin of the central canal, to become continuous with the anterior cornu of the spinal cord. The several fasciculi of origin are directed outwards from the surface, and become gathered into two bundles; these separately pierce the dura mater and enter the anterior condylar foramen, within which they unite with one another. After emerging from the foramen the nerve becomes adherent for a short distance to the posterior border of the lower ganglion of the vagus. It then passes between the internal carotid artery and the internal jugular vein. In its subsequent course the nerve forms a bend with the convexity downwards. It passes at first downwards and forwards to within a short distance of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, crossing the internal carotid artery, escaping from the cover of the posterior belly of the digastric, looping round the occipital artery, and crossing the external carotid artery. It then runs forwards above the great cornu, passing on the deep surface of the tendon of the digastric, and resting on the hyo-glossus muscle. Its terminal branches ascend upon the hyo-glossus and the genio-glossus to the tongue. As it is leaving the skull the nerve detaches a small ir/eniugeal hranrh.