161 THE JOINTS OF THE WEIST AND HAND. The interphalangeal articulations have strong lateral ligaments and are covered behind by the extensor tendons, in front by the thecae of the flexor tendons. Movements of wrist and hand. The radio-carpal articulation admits principally of flexion and extension, but also allows a notable amount of lateral flexion. Adduction or inward flexion is allowed to a much greater extent than abduction or outward flexion, and the total amount of lateral movement varies in diff'erent persons. In lateral flexion the scaphoid, lunar and cuneiform bones so move that each presses only on the facet ordinarily opposed to it. In complete over-extension, which is the position of the joint when the hand is leaned on, the edge of the radius fits into the back of the lunar and scaphoid. In the course of over-extension the radius presses the lunar forwards between the scaphoid and cuneiform, and when the movement is completed, the joint between the two ranges of carpal bones being likewise over-extended, the lunar is kept in its place by tension of ligaments. When these ligaments are ruptured dislocation of the lunar bone forwards is the result. In the joint between the two ranges of the carpus lateral movement can only take place in conjunction with the same movement in the radio-carpal joint. In such movements the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform move one on another, so that in inward flexion their transverse curve is flattened, and in outward flexion it is increased, and in this way their under surfaces are adapted to the irregular transverse curve formed by the upper surfaces of the lower range. The flattening of the upper range is efi'ected less by an upward than by a backward movement of the scaphoid and cuneiform on the sides of the semilunar; and the same movement takes place to a greater extent in over-extension of the wrist, when the upper range rests on the less convex dorsal part of the surfaces of the os magnum and unciform. The amount of movement allowed between the carpals of the second range and between the bases of the second and third metacarpals is not sufficient to produce obvious changes of form; but when pressure is brought down on the over- extended hand the transverse arches of the second carpal range and metacarpal bases are flattened sufficiently to make tense the palmar and interosseous ligaments, which spring back into their previous condition on removal of pressure, and by this means great elasticity is secured. The opposed surfaces of the trapezium and first metacarpal, being saddle- shaped, allow movement of the thumb in every direction. The opposed surfaces, however, do not accurately fit but have their convexities narrower than the opposed concavities. When the thumb is thrown back, only the posterior parts of the opposed surfaces are in contact. When it is bent inwards and forwards over the palm there is a slighter gap posteriorly; and in abduction with slight flexion the inner half of the metacarpal surface is in accurate contact with the outer half of the trapezial surface. The metacarpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations are hinge- joints; but the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, with the exception of the L