211 THE PARIETAL BONES. THE PARIETAL BONES. The parietals are two quadrilateral plates forming the middle region of the roof of the skull. Borders. Their superior borders are straight and deeply dentated, united one with the other in the middle line by the sagittal suture. Their posterior borders, similarly dentated, form with the occipital the lamhdoklal suture. The anterior borders, less deeply serrated, aie united to the frontal bone by the coronal suture, and have the peculiarit}^ that in the lower part the outer table overlaps the frontal bone, while in the upper the outer table of the frontal overlaps the parietals. The inferior border is in the greater part of its extent concave, with the inner table projecting as a sharp edge far beyond the outer, and separated from it by a fluted surface which rests against the squamous part of the temporal bone, and forms with it the squamous suture. Behind this a straight portion joins the squamous edge at a projecting angle, and is serrated to articulate with the mastoid portion of the temporal, forming with it the parieto-mastoid suture {additamentum suturae squamosae); while in front the anterior inferior angle articulates squamously with the great wing of the sphenoid. This articulation with the sphenoid (2)terion) is, however, sometimes absent on one or both sides, and is variable in extent when present. The outer surface has its greatest convexity, the parietal eminence, rather above and behind the middle. Sweeping upwards from behind, and arching forwards below the eminence, is the temporal ridge, dividing the superficial upper part from the temporal fossa, and showing more or less distinctly an upper and 'lower line with an interval between, the upper line marking the superficial limit of attachment of the temporal fascia, and the lower the margin of the temporal muscle. Near the middle line, and behind the eminence, there is usually an aperture for a vein—the parietal foramen. The deep surface presents, along by the upper border, a depression which, when the right and left bone are fitted together, is completed into a mesial groove, marking the course of the superior longitudinal sinus, and in con- tinuity with the superior groove of the occipital. Close to the posterior inferior angle there is a small curved portion of the groove for the lateral sinus. There are also three sets of hollows which are not peculiar to the parietal. The whole surface is covered with shallow digital impressions corresponding with the cerebral convolutions, and is traversed by sharj)- bordered branching grooves, ramifying from the neighbourhood of the anterior inferior angle, and marking the course of the branches of tlie middle meningeal artery. Lastly, in adult skulls there are almost always seen, near the upper border, some irregular depressions caused by the growths called Pacchionian corpuscles eating into and pushing before them the vitreous table.