DEVELOPMENT OF AXIAL SKELETON OF TRUNK. 133 The sternum is very variable in its ossification. The manubrium may- have one or several nuclei (six have been figured) which, however, soon unite. In the remainder of the sternum the nuclei are mesial or in pairs, or may even be both lateral and mesial, and most frequently unite to form single segments, but sometimes remain distinct for years. The parts opposite the second and third intercostal spaces constitute each a temporary segment; the remainder of the mesosternum may have a series of one, two or three nuclei or pairs of nuclei. Ossification begins in the manubrium about the •sixth or seventh month of foetal life, and nuclei appear in the mesosternum in series from above downwards for a year or more after birth. I observe a, distinct osseous centre in the xiphoid process of a child of two years, but this is unusual. The mesosternum remains in three segments till after puberty, and is not usually completed till the twenty-fifth year. II. THE SKELETON OF THE LIMBS. THE UPPER LIMB. The upper or pectoral limb, often called in human anatomy the superior extremity, consists of shoulder, arm, forearm and hand. To the shoulder- girdle or pectoral arch belong the clavicle and the scapula. In the arm there is only one bone, the humerus; in the forearm are the radius and ulna; and in the hand there are as many as twenty-seven bones, which are arranged in three groups, the carpus, the metacarpus and the phalanges. The Clavicle. The clavicle or collar-bone unites the manubrium of the sternum with the acromion process of the scapula. It is the only bone by which the upper limb is articulated to the axial skeleton, and it furnishes the ful- crum on which the raised arms are stretched outwards from the body and approached again to the middle line. In its inner three-fourths the clavicle is curved with the convexity in front, while the outer fourth is bent forwards so as to produce a con- vexity behind. There is also a slight curvature in the vertical plane, which, combined with the horizontal curves, gives a spiral twist, often well marked in slender specimens, and contributing strength and spring in shocks conveyed through the limbs. It is stout at the inner end and flattened at the outer, and may be described as having four surfaces, of which the anterior and posterior are narrowed towards the outer end to margins, while the upper and lower surfaces are broadened at that part. The uppej- surface is superficial, inclined forwards in its inner half, and the only muscular mark on it is near the inner end and posterior border, where the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle is placed. The posterior surface is smooth in its inner and concave i3art, but externally