69 SACCULAR MEMBRANES. Serous membranes are so named because their lubricating surfaces present the appearance of being moistened with a thin watery fluid. Under this name are included the membranes derived from the walls of the primitive space or coelom separating, in the embryo, the splanchno- pleure from the somatopleure, namely, the peritoneum, the pleurae, the pericardium and the tunica vaginalis. The cavities inclosed by these four membranes are portions of one original space. They all consist of a parietal and visceral layer continuous one with the other where the 23arietal layer turns inward to be folded round the surface of the organ, or organs, invested by the visceral layer. They are practically shut sacs, but in the female the Fallopian tubes open into the peritoneum, and in certain fishes and reptiles there are other openings termed the abdominal pores. Generally the serous membrane can be stripped with ease from the w^all or viscus which it clothes, and is seen to consist of homogeneous connective tissue, strengthened with curling elastic fibres and lined with endothelium; but there is no distinct line of separation between the fibrous tissue of the ovary or that of the tunica albuginea testis and their serous coverings. Serous membranes are the seat of acute pain when inflamed, and minute branches of nerves have been traced to them. In addition to the membranes mentioned, the arachnoid used to be described as a serous membrane with a parietal and visceral layer; but latterly the custom has become general to confine the name arachnoid to the transparent membrane over the pia mater, to term the opposed surface the deep surface of the dura mater, and to call the intervening cavity the subdural space. Nevertheless the subdural space is walled by two sur- faces lined with endothelium, and is not without communications with the lymphatics. It is not, however, developed from the coelom or any primitive cavity, but is hollowed out in previously continuous tissues in the same way that synovial membranes are. Synovial sacs. The synovial membranes of joints have already been considered with the other textures of articulations ; but besides these there are sacs diflering from them in presenting a membrane of uninterrupted continuity round every part of their cavity, while resembling them in secreting a similar synovial moisture liable, like theirs, to become glairy under inflaming influences. They are of two sorts, hiirsae mucosae and thecae or vaginal membranes. Bursae are thin-walled sacs, intervening most frequently between muscle or tendon on the one side, and a bony surface on the other. The largest bursae intervene, one of them between the gluteus maximus and the great trochanter of the femur, and the other between the deltoid muscle and acromial arch on the one hand, and the shoulder joint with the immediately surrounding insertions of muscles on the other. The bursae beneath the ligamentum patellae, the tendo Achillis and the radial insertion of the biceps muscle, are examples of bursae between tendon and bone. There are likewise subcutaneous bursae, the most constant being that over the patella, the inflammation of which con-