ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 664 a posterior wall, which, though both of them structureless, differ considerably in consistence. The anterior wall is thicker than the posterior and elastic to such an extent that when ruptured it causes, by its pressure, the lensj to escape, while the ruptured edges turn inwards. The posterior wall! when separated from the vitreous humour and ruptured does not curl' inwards, being less distinctly elastic. It has the hyaloid membrane | closely united with it. \ Suspensory apparatus and zonule of Zinn. When the vitreous body and the lens are removed together from the parts which inclose them, a circle of radiating plications is seen beyond the circumference of the lens, and to this circle it is usual to give the name zonule of Zinn. The plications fit in closely between and behind the ciliary processes, and there adheres to them a greater or smaller amount of the intervening pigmented epithelium. From the prominent margin of the fossa patellaris a structure exhibiting Homogeneous hyaloido-capsular membrane Fibrous suspensory ligament Fig. 501.—Section through Capsule of Lens, Suspensory Ligament and Canal of Petit. radiating fibres extends inwards to the circumference of the anterior wall of the capsule of the lens, and this is what is properly termed the suspensory ligament of the lens. If it be punctured, coloured injection can with the slightest pressure be made to fill a three-sided space behind it, which is limited centrally by the peripheral part of the posterior wall of the capsule of the lens, and posteriorly by the hyaloid membrane. This is the canal of Petit. This canal has not been alleged to have an endothelial lining; and, in point of fact, it is traversed by a certain amount of tissue allowed to be so delicate as to be easily destroyed in removal of the ciliary processes from the plications of the zonule. This delicate tissue is the so-called prismatic ligament^ and has even been figured under the name of liganientum suspensorium lentis, but is not comparable in tenacity with any of the three walls of the canal of Petit. The suspensory ligament proper, the anterior wall of the canal of Petit, has a much more complex structure than it has been credited with. Thick sections of the human eye, made by the writer, show distinctly