THE NERVES. 560 Immediately below the foramen of exit the hypoglossal is joined by communicating branches from the first loop of the cervical plexus, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; there is also an interchange of fibres between it and the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus as they adhere to one another below the base of the skull. A little lower down a branch from the vagus or from the pharyngeal plexus joins the trunk of the nerve. As it rests upon the hyo-glossus, before it breaks up into its terminal branches, two or three filaments pass between it and the lingual branch of the fifth nerve. The branches of distribution supply the intrinsic muscles of the tongue and the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-glossus, genio-hyoid, and thyro- h3''oid, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid; in addition they furnish part of the supply of the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the sterno hyoid, and the sterno-thyroid. It is usual among mammals for all the muscles below the hyoid bone to be supplied altogether by the spinal nerves, and it is quite probable that in man the nerve fibres to these muscles have a similar origin, those detached from the hypoglossal possibly reaching it through the connecting branches with the cervical plexus. The descending branch (descendens hypoglossi, descendens noni in the system of Willis) arises as the main trunk is looping round the occipital artery ; it passes downwards and forwards upon the surface of the carotid sheath, and detaches a twig to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. It is then joined by a branch (the communicans hypoglossi) which springs by two roots from the second and third cervical nerves respectively; from the loop which is thus formed (the ansa hypoglossi) branches pass to the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid; occasionally a branch from the loop extends into the thorax, and com- municates with the phrenic nerve. The descending branch sometimes springs from the vagus instead of the hypoglossal, and it may run for some distance within the carotid sheath. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid, a j slender twig, is detached from the hypoglossal as it bends forwards below the posterior belly of the digastric. The nerves to the stylo-glossus, hyo-glossus, genio-glossus, and genio-hyoid are slender branches, which are given off as the main stem rests on the hyo-glossus muscle. The terminal or glossal branches pierce the under surface of the tongue. THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The central part of the sympathetic system is formed of two gangliated cords, one on each side of the body, which run through the whole length of the trunk by the side of the vertebral column, and are sometimes called the prevertebral chains. In the thoracic region there are usually twelve ganglia on each side, one corresponding to each segment, but the number is liable to diminution on account of the occasional conjunction of neighbouring