18 GENERAL ANATOMY. seen in position in the tendons of the tails of small animals, such as rats, which do not require sections for their examination. At the back of each scale is a longitudinal structure easily stained, described by Boll as an elastic band, alleged by him to have been mistaken sometimes for the nucleus, but considered by Ranvier as a crest. I find it to consist of elon- gated corpuscles consisting chiefly of nucleus, united in linear series by a thread of connection. These chains are far more easily distinguished in the human subject than the quadrate scales.^ Medullated nerve-fibres breaking up into branched structures in tendons near their junction with muscle will be referred to in connection with muscular nerve-supply. Adipose tissue. The tissue which is commonly known as fat is tech- nically termed adipose tissue, the word fat being more properly used to signify the solid condition of an oil. Adipose tissue consists of groups of microscopic vesicles containing oil and supported by a delicate web of Fig. 14.—Adipose Tissue : a, in the unaltered state, the vesicles full of oil and lying among fine white fibres ; b, stained and cleared from oil, some of the vesicles showing the circular flat nucleus, smaller nuclei of leucocytes scattered about, and a capillary with its oval nuclei brought into view ; c, from foetus of five months, shows a group of germinal corpuscles as yet free from oil, and four converted into vesicles by accumulation of oil; d, from emaciated adult, showing withered vesicles, and others in different stages of for- mation from leucocytes. connective tissue. Adipose vesicles are mostly from 3Jo-^h to -g-^o-th of an inch in diameter and are rounded in form, or sufliciently closely packed together to have their sides somewhat flattened one against another. They are generally arranged in little clumps or grains separated by loose connective tissue from others, and these smaller grains are often collected into larger lobules. Though adipose tissue is but poorly vascular, it is better supplied with bloodvessels than is connective tissue, and each little clump of vesicles has a capillary distribution separated by non-vascular ^ The nucleated thread appears to me to be the fundamental part of the arrangement which is never absent. A specimen is figured from a rat's tail in which the nuclei were not only exaggerated in size, but united b}^ a thick protoplasmic thread, while the scales were absent.