VISCERA. 690 peritoneum, namely, the lohulus Spigelii; behind it the inferior vena cava; beneath it the duodenum, and in front of it the gastro-hepatic omentum. The gastro-hepatic or small omentum is the peritoneal fold connecting the pylorus and commencement of the duodenum with the portal fissure of the liver, and contains within it the bile duct to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein between and behind these, besides nerves and lymphatics. From the liver and diaphragm the peritoneum extends down- wards over the stomach as far as the inferior border or great curvature, and beyond this it is continued onwards as the superficial layer of a pendulous fold, sometimes disposed over the surface of the small intestines, and sometimes crumpled along the lower border of the transverse colon, the gastro-colic or great omentum. When this is cut a little below the stomach, the interior of the smaller sac of the peritoneum is laid bare, and the gastro- colic and gastro-splenic omenta, the splenic ligament and the transverse mesocolon can be studied. The smaller sac of the peritoneum (sac of the great omentum), commencing at the foramen of Winslow, and passing towards the left between the Spigelian lobe of the liver and the origin of the hepatic artery, expands behind the stomach. It extends up to the diaphragm, and, lying above the stomach in contact with the general peritoneum, forms with it the gastro-phrenic ligament which, on the right is continuous with the gastro- hepatic or small omentum. Anteriorly the small sac covers the posterior surface of the stomach and commencement of the duodenum ; posteriorly it invests the anterior surface of the body of the pancreas, reaching, on the left, even to the spleen, a small portion of which, as much as half an inch in diameter, it may invest in front of the hilus. Below the pancreas it leaves the posterior wall of the abdomen, and descends to the anterior surface of the transverse colon, and between this and the stomach it is laid in contact back to back with the pendulous fold of the general peritoneum already traced. The gastro-colic or great omentum is, therefore, a greatly elongated fold formed by a layer of the greater and a layer of the smaller sac of peri- toneum placed back to back; but, as it lies in its natural and pendulous position it presents four layers, the anterior and posterior belonging to the general peritoneum, while the intervening two are the anterior and posterior walls of the smaller sac gliding one on the other. The layers belonging to the greater and smaller sacs are not only applied very firmly to one another, but are in many places so attenuated and perforated as to present the appearance of a net; while, in the bars between the perforations, adipose tissue is often very considerably developed. The gastro-splenic omentum is formed by the peritoneum extending from the front of the stomach to the front of the hilus of the spleen, and the smaller sac extending from the posterior surface of the stomach to touch the spleen. The spleen is not only attached thus to the stomach, but also to the diaphragm, the latter connection forming the spleno-phrenic