THE MUSCLES. 358 and the erector spinae which extends the whole length of the trunk. Only a small slip of the erector spinae—viz., that termed trachelo-mastoid —is covered by the splenius; apart from this the splenius and erector spinae exhibit parallel borders in contact with one another. The splenius- arises from cervical and upper thoracic spines, and is inserted into the skull and upper cervical transverse processes. The erector spinae, occupying the whole breadth of the space covered by the lumbar aponeurosis, arises largely from spines up to the level of the seventh thoracic, and is inserted into accessory and transverse processes and ribs and not into spines, save only to a small extent in the upper thoracic region. On the deep surface of the splenius and erector spinae are three long muscles, the fibres of which are directed upwards and inwards, taking origin from mammillary processes and their homologues, and passing to insertion on spines. The individual muscles are distinguished from one another by the length of their fibres, and the longer fibred are the more superficial. The first, the complexus, passes from the higher thoracic trans- verse processes and cervical articular processes to the skull. The second, the semispinals, from the higher ten thoracic transverse processes to spines from that of the axis to the fourth thoracic. The third, the multifidus spinae^ made up of short bundles, passes from the back of the sacrum, the lumbar mammillary processes, the thoracic transverse processes, and the cervical articular processes, to the spines of all the movable vertebrae from the axis downwards. Besides the long muscles there are also numerous short muscles which pass between contiguous spines and between contiguous transverse processes in the region below the atlas vertebra. In the region between the axis and the skull there is a special group of four small muscles. The splenius arises from the spines of five or six of the higher thoracic vertebrae, from that of the seventh cervical and from the ligamentum nuchae, extending in its origin as high as the third cervical spine. The upper and larger portion receives the name of splenius capitis, and is inserted into the mastoid process and the outer part of the superior curved line. The lower portion, the splenius colli, is inserted by tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the first three or four cervical vertebrae. The erector spinae arises from the lower thoracic and all the lumbar and sacral spines, from the posterior sacro-coccygeal ligaments, from the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and from the adjacent triangular area of the ventral surface of the ilium behind the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament. The greater part of the origin is formed by a strong flat tendon attached internally to the spines and externally to the iliac crest, and giving origin on its deep surface to fibres of the multifidus spinae; but the outermost portion of the origin from the crest and the whole of that from the ventral surface of the ilium are muscular. The muscle is composed almost entirely of two columns, each consisting of a.