DEVELOPMENT AND MOEPHOLOGY. 397 independently of the muscle plates from the mesoblastic tissue of the liml> outgrowths; but in the lower forms, for instance in elasmobranch fishes, the limb muscles are formed, to a large extent at least, from processes which are budded from the muscle plates of the segments to Avhich, in each case, the limb corresponds. The mesoblastic somites present at an early date a central cavity which, in certain cases, as for instance in those of the anterior somites of the embryo duck, can be seen to be continuous for a short time with the general body cavity. The outer and inner walls of the somites are at first of equal thickness, but at an early stage the inner wall undergoes a rapid growth, with the result that in each case the originally centrally- placed cavity comes to occupy a lateral position. The greater part of the thickened inner Avail, formed of irregular or stellate cells, gives rise to the tissue out of which the vertebral column is formed; the remainder of each somite presenting in its interior the original cavity forms a muscle plate. The outer wall of the muscle plate is formed of elongated columnar cells, the inner wall of two or three layers of flattened cells. The muscle plates grow rapidly, extending ventrally into the somatopleure and dorsally towards the vertebral column, the growth taking place at the dorsal and ventral angles of the plates where the outer walls become continuous with the inner walls. The cells of the inner walls of the muscle plates give rise to a system of muscular fibres; the changes which take place in those of the outer walls have not been clearly followed. The original muscular fibres have at first a longitudinal direction, and those of the successive segments are separated from one another by inter- segmental septa along which the nerves run, and in which, in the thoracic region, the ribs are formed. Subsequently, by the complete or partial obliteration of the septa, and by the growth and the increase in numbers of the fibres, there is formed a complicated system of muscles, the individual members of which are separated from one another and collected into groups by new connective-tissue septa deri^-ed from the mesenchyme. The fascia which surrounds the muscles forms a general superficial investment and four great septa. One of the septa, dorsal in position, extends from the spines of the vertel^rae to the surface and separates the dorsal muscles of opposite sides from one another; it is rejDresented in the adult by the ligamentum nuchae and by the interspinous and supraspinous ligaments. Another, the haemal septum, passes ventralwards; it is present in the caudal region of lower forms, but in the rest of the trunk it is split into lateral portions between which the visceral cavity is interposed ; it is represented by the lining fascia of the visceral cavity. The two others, one on each side of the body, lateral in position, divide the nnis- culature of each lateral half into a dorsal and a A entro-lateral portion ; the remains of these septa persist as the middle layers of the IuiuImi aponeurosis. Each of the two great groups of muscles is furtlier