445 THE THORACIC AORTA. The Deep Palmar Arch. The deep arch (Fig. 335), the continuation of the radial artery, is completed internally by inosculation Avith the deep branch of the ulnar artery. It is placed about half an inch nearer the wrist tlian the super- ficial arch and lies upon the bases of the metacarpal bones, behind the flexor tendons; it gives off three palmar interosseous arteries, and some small recurrent vessels, and receives the superior perforating arteries. The palmar interosseous arteries, three in number, descend, one in each of the three inner interspaces, to join, near the clefts of the fingers, the digital branches of the superficial arch. The recurrent hranclies, small and irregular, pass backwards from the deep arch to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The superior perforating arteries may join the palmar interosseous arteries instead of the deep arch. Varieties of the arteries of the hand. Very frequently the arrange- ment of the branches of the chief arterial arches departs from the normal type; but as the connections between the different sets of vessels are so free, deficiency in one arch is made up for by excess in another. The deep arch may largely take the place of the superficial, or the superficial may supply the digital vessels to the index finger and thumb. An enlarged superficial volar or a median artery may assist or take the place of the ulnar in the hand, and by an increase in the size of perforating branches defective interosseous vessels may be compensated for. THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. The descending portion of the thoracic aorta (Fig. 317) passes down- wards in the posterior mediastinal space from the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, gradually inclining towards the middle line, and pierces the diaphragm opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra. It rests closely upon the vertebral column, and lies behind the pericardium above and the vertebral portion of the diaphragm below. At its commencement it is crossed in front by the root of the left lung, and the pleura is in contact with it on the left side. The oesophagus lies at first by its right side, lower down it is directly in front of the aorta, and still lower it is placed somewhat to the left. The thoracic duct and the larger azygos vein lie by its right side; the smaller azygos vein ascends by its left side as far as the seventh dorsal vertebra, where it passes to the right behind it. It detaches numerous small offsets to the pericardium, the oesophagus, the diaphragm, and the glands of the posterior mediastinum; its more important branches are the bronchial and intercostal arteries. The bronchial arteries supply the bronchi, the lungs, and the bronchial glands. They are variable in number and in their mode of origin. The right bronchial artery, usually single, arises in some cases from the first aortic intercostal of the right side, in others from the aorta, by a common