564 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. vertebra, and generally rests upon the inferior thyroid artery. It detaches (a) communicating branches to the anterior divisions of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, (&) vascular branches with the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body, and (c) the middle cardiac branch, which on each side descends to the deep cardiac plexus; the left nerve enters the thorax behind and to the inner side of the subclavian artery; the nerve of the right side crosses the subclavian either on its superficial or its deep aspect. The inferior cervical ganglion, intermediate in size between the superior and middle, lies between the last cervical transverse process and the neck of the first rib; it probably represents two originally separate ganglia. It detaches {a) communicating branches to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves; {b) vascidar branches which ascend with the vertebral artery, forming a plexus surrounding its stem and accompanying its branches; and (c) the inferior cardiac nerve, which on each side joins the deep cardiac plexus. The Thoracic Portion of the Gangliated Cord. This portion (Fig. 412) descends by the side of the vertebral column, lying behind the pleura, and crossing anteriorly the intercostal vessels. It presents twelve ganglia, but the first (the ganglion stellatum) is fre- quently conjoined with the inferior cervical ganglion. The upper ten ganglia lie upon the heads of the corresponding ribs; the lower two rest upon the vertebral bodies. Entering the abdomen the sympathetic trunk either passes behind the internal arched ligament or pierces the crus of the diaphragm. The branches are the communicating, the vascular, the pulmonary, and the three splanchnic nerves. Two communicating branches, respectively white and grey, pass from each ganglion to the corresponding spinal nerve. Vascular branches of small size pass from the first five or six ganglia to the aorta. A few pulmonary branches from the upper ganglia enter the posterior pulmonary plexus. The great splanchnic nerve arises by separate branches from the ganglia from the fifth to the ninth or tenth; these roots bend forwards upon the column and, joining with one another, form a considerable trunk which, piercing the crus of the diaphragm, enters the abdomen and terminates in the semilunar ganglion. Before entering the abdomen the nerve of the right side frequently presents a small ganglion upon its trunk; a similar ganglion is occasionally found on the left nerve. The middle splanchnic nerve of small size springs from the tenth and eleventh ganglia; it passes behind the internal arched ligament and ends in the solar plexus. The smcUlest splanchnic nerve springs from the twelfth ganglion; it descends with the middle splanchnic and usually ends in the renal plexus. The splanchnic nerves contain many niedullated fibres which, emerging by the white roots from the cord, pass over the ganglia of the main chain without being connected with their cells.