MUSCLES OF LOWEE LIMB. 317 and the ligaments of the sole. Near the insertion a sesamoid bone lies in the tendon. The flexor hallucis longus takes origin from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula; fibres also spring from the layer of deep fascia which covers the muscle. The tendon forms on the inner edge of the muscle, becomes free at the level of the ankle, and in passing round the malleolus grooves the back of the astragalus, and the susten- taculum tali. On its way forwards in the sole it crosses above and detaches a slip to the tendon of the long flexor of the toes. It enters a fibrous sheath on the first phalanx of the great toe, and is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx on its plantar surface. The flexor digitorum pedis longus arises from the inner part of the posterior surface of the tibia, and occupies at its origin a region corre- sponding to the middle two-fourths of the shaft; fibres also spring at its outer border from the intermuscular septum, which covers the tibialis posticus, and which, arching over the tendon of that muscle, is connected below with the interosseous membrane and the fibula. The tendon becomes free from muscular fibres at the upper border of the internal annular ligament; in passing forwards and outwards in the sole it is connected with that of the flexor longus hallucis, and receives the insertion of the flexor accessorius. Immediately thereafter it divides into four portions, which, after giving origin to the lumbricales, are continued to the four outer toes, wheie they are inserted into the terminal phalanges. Each tendon as it passes forwards in the toe pierces a tendon of the superficial flexor, and the tendons in each toe are surrounded by a fibrous and synovial sheath similar in all respects to that which in the finger surrounds the flexor tendons. The flexor accessorius is closely associated with the tendon of the flexor digitorum longus, and like it is covered by the superficial muscles of the sole. It arises from the lower part of the calcaneum by two heads, the inner broad and fleshy from the anterior tubercle and a portion of the area behind it, the outer narrow and tendinous from the base of the external tubercle. The muscular belly is inserted, about half-way forwards in the sole, into the outer margin and the upper surface of the tendon of the long flexor of the toes. The lumbricales, four fleshy slips, take origin from the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus, close to their point of separation. The most internal springs from the inner side of the tendon for the second toe, each of the others from the two tendons between which it is placed. They are inserted tendinously into the four outer toes, each tendon passing along the inner side and reaching the tendinous expansion on the dorsal surface of the first phalanx. Variations of the muscles of the posterior region of the leg. The plantaris is frequently absent. As a rare occurrence, absence of the gastroc- nemius has been noted. An accessory head of the gastrocnemius has been