653 THE EYEBALL. continued along their free or posterior edges, Avhile the deep parts receive, with the iris, blood from the anterior ciliary arteries. The veins pass back to the choroid, and the capillary network has its vessels enlarged and tortuous. The iris,^ the fore part of the tunica vasculosa, is the contractile curtain which gives colour to the eye; it presents in the middle a circular aperture, the pupil. But dissectors, supplementing their knowledge by dissection of eyes of other animals, must recollect that the pupil is elongated horizontally in the horse and the ox, while it is elongated vertically in the cat. The iris is connected peripherally with the ciliary muscle and ciliary processes,, and, by means of a structure termed ligamentum pedinahim iridis, with the membrane of Descemet. It has a stroma of connective tissue presenting Fig. 488.—Injection of Human Iris, Ciliary Processes, and Fore Part of Choroid. (Injection by A. Stirling.) stellate corpuscles with prominent nuclei and long anastomosing branches. Its muscular fibres are unstriped in mammals, striped in birds, and are arranged in two sets. The more distinct set is circularly arranged round the pupil and called the sphincter; it is nearer the back than the front. The others, constituting the dilatator, are still closer to the back, consider- ably more scattered and radiate in direction, and stronger peripherally. At the back of the iris there is a continuation of the membrane of Bruch resting on the thick pigmented epithelium behind. In front, at the cir- cumference, the membrane of Descemet, becoming fibrous at the margin of the cornea, turns in to join the fore part of the stroma of the iris, and it is this which is called ligamentum pedinatum Iridis; but the name is not as descriptive of the appearance in the human subject as it is of the ^Uvea of old anatomists, M'ho included under the term the pigmented epitlielium behind it. The terms pars uvealis iridic for the iris proper and pars retinalis irid{& for the pigmented epithelium are inaccurate.