THE OVARIES, UTERUS AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. 789 the lower part secreting a tenacious substance, while the upper part would appear to alter its relations and enter into the formation of the enlarged body. The Fallopian tubes are the ducts by which the ova, escaped from the ovaries, reach the uterus. They are between three and four inches long, and open by one extremity (ostium uterinum) into the uterus, and l)y the other {ostium abclominale) into the peritoneal cavity. They spring al^ruptly from the uterus, and are continuous with the superior and lateial aui^les of its cavity. For about an inch from its uterine extremity the Fallopian tube is so narrow as only to admit a bristle, and this part is known as the isthmus. Beyond it the tube dilates in the rest of its length to about an eighth of an inch in diameter, and is again slightly narrower close to the peritoneal orifice, and the dilated part is often alluded to as the ampulla. The peritoneal orifice is expanded like the corolla of a flower, and the free margin of its expansion is prolonged into fringe-like processes, the fimhriae, one of which is attached by peritoneum so as to approach close to the outer end of the ovary, while to another there is often appended a minute cyst, probably vestigial, like the hydatids of Morgagni in the male. The mucous membrane is lined with simple ciliated columnar epitheKum up to the edge Of the fimbriated extremity. It is thrown into longitudinal rugae, which are simple in the isthmus, but in the ampulla bear secondary rugae, and communicate one with another and exhibit blind recesses. Beneath the mucous membrane there is a submucous layer of connective tissue containing some longitudinal muscular fibres. The main thickness of the muscular coat consists of circular fibres, but there are some longi- tudinal fibres external to them. The Fallopian tubes are supplied by the ovarian vessels and nerves. The parovarium (epoophoron or orga?i of Rosenmilller) is a vestigial structure, the epididymis and coui vasculosi of the male. It is without apparent function, and is seen to advantage on holding up against the light the fold of peritoneum between Fallopian tube and ovary. It is always present, but is most distinct in young subjects. It consists of a thread-like tube running parallel to the outer part of the Fallopian tube, with several others (not, however, tubules of the WolflSan body) coming oflf from it and running towards the ovary. No opening has been found into those tubes. They contain ciliated columnar epithelium. Other vestigial remains placed nearer to the uterine end of the Fallopian tube have been named paroophoron. II. The External Organs of the Female. Under this head may be included the superficial sexual parts, together with those near the surface, or opening in its neighbourhood. The superficial parts, puhes or pudendum, consist of the vulva, bounding the genito urinary orifice, and the mons veneris. The mons veneris is the prominence of thickened adipose and areolar tissue on the front of the pubes, covered with hair, the abdominal margin of which differs from tlx-