GENERAL ANATOMY. 20 It is called temporary or permanent according as it is destined to be converted into bone or to remain as cartilage till adult life. Among the more important masses thus remaining in the adult may be mentioned the costal cartilages, the articular carti- lages, and those of the larynx, trachea, and other air-tubes. Hyaline cartilage consists of incap- suled corpuscles lying in a clear or hyaline matrix which, on boiling, yields principally a substance called chondrin, resembling gelatin in being soluble in hot water and forming a jelly on cooling, but differing some- what in composition and in respect that whilC; like gelatin, it is precipi- tated from solution by tannin, it is likewise precipitated by acids, alum and sugar-of-lead, which do not pre- cipitate gelatin. This chondriniferous matrix is the part which gives to cartilage its physical characters, making it firm, tough, flexible, springing with a somewhat vitreous fracture, microscope a faint indication of fibres, and more constantly a slightly granular appearance, most evident in the parts furthest removed from the corpuscles, which are also the parts most darkened by osmic acid, probably from a certain amount of oily matter being present.^ . The corpuscles lie in capsules of the same substance as the rest of the matrix, only firmer and capable of being isolated by softening of the matrix by reagents. The corpuscles, when young and active, fill the capsules. Their protoplasm is granular, the nucleus distinct; and there is often a clear nucleolus, staining very dark with osmic acid. Two, three, or more corpuscles may be present in one capsule, while near it there may be a similar group, the members of which are each inclosed in a distinct capsule separated by bars of matrix from the others; or an imperfect bar may be seen partially separating one capsule from another. Thus, it is evident that cartilage increases in size by growth throughout, the corpuscles multiplying, their capsules dividing, and new matrix being afterwards thrown out between them, so that they are forced apart, Fig. itj.—( osTAL Cartilage, hinnaii. At the upper nglit-haud curner degciieratioii of corpus- cles has set in. breakiu! back when bent, and It often exhibits under the ^ Very remarkable complexities of matrix connected with sap-currents and fibrillation have been brought into view by special methods. For a full account of these and the literature of the subject, see VVolters in Archiv. filr Mih-osk. Anat., 1891, Vol. xxxvii., p. 492.