173 THE PATELLA. internal portion transversely convex; and both in macerated specimens and in those covered with cartilage two slight transverse elevated lines subdivide each of these portions into a broad middle facet and narrower facets above and below, while, close to the inner margin, a vertically elongated seventh facet is seen, which comes in contact with the patellar strip of the inner condyle of the femur when the knee- joint is bent to its utmost in sinking down on the hams and balls of the toes. THE BONES OF THE LEG. As in the forearm, so also in the leg there are two bones, the tibia and the fibula. The fibula is, however, much more slender than the tibia in its whole length. In mammals it does not enter into the knee- joint, and it forms little or no part of the pillar of support through which the weight of the body is conducted to the foot. At the ankle only one bone of the foot, the astragalus, articulates with the leg, and it lies underneath the tibia; while the joint is guarded at the sides by twa projections called malleoli, the inner formed by a process of the tibia, and the outer by the lower end of the fibula. The Tibia. At its upper extremity or head, the tibia or shin bone is expanded, especially transversely, and supports an outer and an inner condylar surface placed side by side with a narrow interval between. Both of these are rather concave in the middle where the condyles of the femur principally rest, and toward the circumference of the bone they are bevelled where they come in contact with the semilunar fibro-plates, and they turn abruptly upwards with a slight twist in the middle of their contiguous borders, forming the double summit of an elevation termed the spine. The inner articular surface is considerably longer from before backwards than the outer. The rough interval between the two is elevated where it takes part in forming the spine. Behind this, it sinks into a depression, the popliteal notch, from which springs the posterior or internal crucial ligament; and in front it is wider, giving origin by its inner two thirds to the anterior or external crucial ligament, and in its outer third presenting a smoother groove to lodge the external semilunar fibro-plate when the knee is extended. At the sides, the head projects beyond the shaft, forming the outer and in7ier tuberosity. The inner tuberosity presents a horizontal groove in which lies one of the insertions of the semimembranosus muscle. Towards the back of the external tuberosity there is a small articular surface for the fibula, looking outwards, downwards and backwards; and in front of this a minute area, giving attachment to the tip of the extensor longus digitorum, intervenes between the fibular surface and a line whicli curves forwards limiting the origin of the tibialis anticus from the shaft.