ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 678 labyrinth. The membranous vestibule presents, throughout, three walls, an outer or fibrous which is notably vascular, a structureless membrana 4 propria, and an epithelium which is simple squamous except in the parts in which the auditory nerve terminates. The parts of the vestibule to which the nerve is distributed are five, namely, the macula acustica of the utricle, a smaller macula acustica of the saccule, and a crista acustica j; in the ampulla of each semicircular canal; and to each of these a separate | bundle of nerve-fibres proceeds. The maculae acusticae are two patches I marked by thickening on the lower parts of their respective vesicles, while the cristae acusticae are semilunar folds, one projecting inwards transversely in each ampulla. In all the five spots the epithelium is cylindrical, and j presents auditory cells with hair-like processes projecting from the free extremity, while intermingled with them are elongated epithelial cells Fig. 514.—Section of Cochlea of Pig at Birth, a, Canalis cochleae; b, scala tym- pani; c, scala vestibuli; d, basilar membrane and organ of Corti; e, membrane of Reissner ; /, spiral ganglion. (Reichert.) branched at their deep extremities and without hair-like processes. The auditory or hair-cells receive fine branches from nerve-fibres which lose their medullary sheaths as they pierce the membrana propria and spread out in other fine branches between them. On the surface of the auditory epithelium there is in each of the five patches a number of minute crystals of carbonate of lime {otoconia)^ and, superficial to the jelly in which these lie, an appearance of a membrane. The utricle and saccule lie nearer to the inner than the outer wall of the vestibule, and the membranous semicircular canals adhere to the convex sides of the arches of the osseous tubes containing them. The coclilea. The osseous cochlea is a tube starting from the lower and fore part of the vestibule, and coiled spirally in the form of a snail's-shell. It begins at the fenestra rotunda and has the centre of the base of its spiral opposite the anterior part of the cribriform plate of the internal auditory meatus, while its apex or cupola abuts against the tympanum at