606 THE BRAIN. to the surface and along the length of the lamina, and ending in bulbous extremities. Also the granular layer presents a certain number of large stellate nerve-corpuscles, and it has the whole of the nerve-fibres of the underlying white matter coursing on through it to reach the molecular layer. The molecular layer contrasts with the granular in presenting a much smoother appearance under the microscope. On its floor there is a single stratum of large nerve-corpuscles, corpuscles of Furkinje, pretty closely set, each having at its base or deep part continuity with a medul- lated nerve-fibre direct from the white brain-matter of the centre of the lamina, and, at its superficial extremity, a single protoplasmic pole at once breaking up dichotomously into a number of processes which make for the | surface. The main branches can be easily seen with the usual modes of I staining, but a much more extensive arborization is brought into view by means of the Golgi method; and this arborization is spread out in a plane Fig. 439.—Semi-diagrammatic Longitudinal Section of Cerebellar Laminae, a, b, c, Molecular, granular and white layers : o, ascending axis-cylinder of grain-like corpuscle ; h, bifurcation of the same, and formation of a parallel fibre ; d, profile view of corpuscles of Purkinje ; e, thickened free extremities of parallel fibres ; /, axis-cylinder of corpuscle of Purkenje. (Cajal.) transversely crossing the lamina, so that in longitudinal sections of laminae the arborizations of the corpuscles of Purkinje are seen as hedgelike septa, while the intervening spaces are, as it were, ruled with the lines of the divisions of the axis-cylinder-processes of the corpuscles of the granular layer. There are likewise in the molecular layer, placed at different levels, small stellate nerve-corpuscles transversely flattened, and having the axis- cylinder-process much elongated in the transverse plane and parallel to the surface of the lamina, with terminations and collaterals descending and breaking into copious ramifications, the terminal baskets of Kdlliker, surrounding each corpuscle of Purkinje and curving inwardly round its axis-cylinder. Cajal recognises three kinds of nerve-fibres in the central white matter, namely, (1) descending fibres coming from the corpuscles of Purkinje and giving off a certain number of ascending or recurrent collaterals; (2) thick nerve-fibres ascending and ramifying in the granular layer in "mossy" branches; (3) other thick fibres ascending to ramify in the molecular layer, and these he terms clambering fibres.