GENERAL ANATOMY. 102 mesocardium which soon disappears, between the 1 which persists. between the heart and fore-gut so as to make a dorsal mesocardinm At the same time they push in a The venous end of the tubular heart becomes bent with a ventral convexity, by the arterial end receding from the head and the venous end being tucked up towards the dorsum to assume the posi- tion of the auricles into which it is developed, while the pro- jecting convexity becomes the apex. The veins, in their change of position, carry with them the wall of the coelom, and principally by this means the pericardium is cut off as a separate sac. While the heart and vitel- line vessels belong to the splanchnopleure, the inter- costal and lumbar arteries pass out in the somatopleure, and, in the transparent part beyond the limb-ridge, the memhrana reuniens inferior, are continued into a remarkable network of vessels, very accur- ately represented by Kolliker. The surroundings of the embryo. The somatopleure and splanchnopleure continue separated by the body-cavity beyond the embryo, passing quite round the yelk, and in fishes and amphibians they continue in contact all the way. But in reptiles and birds and mammals, the extra-embryonic somatopleure quits the spanchnopleure and rises up over the dorsum of the embryo, so as to form a pouch with an orifice which contracts and disappears, inclosing the embryo in a transparent sac, the amnion. The part of the somatopleure beyond the amnion is called the false amnion, and remains adherent by its epiblastic surface to the much thinned and dis- appearing zona pellucida, called also prochorion, which in turn adheres tO' the uterus. There is thus an extra-embryonic extension of the coelom between the false amnion and the continuation of the splanchnopleure round the yelk, and it is into this space that the allantois extends. The false amnion, with the prochorion, forms an envelope, the chorion, from which there soon project multitudes of branching villi embedding themselves in the mucous membrane of the uterus. The mucous membrane of the uterus undergoes a marked increase of Fig. 109.—Transverse Section through Embryo Chick Five Days Old, and the Amnion around it, a, Sheath of notochord ; b, epidermis ; c, amnion nearly closed; d, single aorta; e, cardinal veins; /, muscle-plate; g, spinal gan- glion ; h, anterior nerve-root; i, cutaneous layer; k, the segmented structures pushing forward into I, the primitive abdominal wall; the glandular, and n, the musculo- intestinal layer, together forming the splanchnopleure. (Kolliker, after Remak.)