THE LYMPHATICS. 502 vessels pass mainly to the thoracic duct, but those from the higher glands on the right side join the right lymphatic duct. The anterior mediastinal glands, three or four in number, lie behind the lower part of the sternum. They receive the lymphatics from the mesial portion of the upper surface of the liver, and some of the vessels of the diaphragm and pericardium : they are connected with the anterior intercostal glands, and discharge themselves into the right lymphatic and thoracic ducts. The superior mediastinal glands surround the basal portion of the aorta. They form a large ill-defined group which is continuous, below, with the posterior mediastinal glands, and, on each side, with the bronchial glands. They receive lymphatic vessels from the heart, pericardium, and thymus gland. Their efferent ducts pass upwards on the sides of the trachea to the right lymphatic and thoracic ducts. The bronchial glands (Fig. 374), very numerous, and in the adult of a very dark colour, surround the main bronchi and their prfmary subdivisions in the roots of the lungs. They receive the lymphatics of the lungs and some of those of the pleural membranes, and their efferent ducts pass upwards with those of the superior mediastinal glands. The posterior mediastinal glands, ten to twelve in number, form a chain by the sides of the descending aorta. They receive some lymphatic vessels from the diaphragm, those of the oesophagus, and those of the posterior portion of the pericardium. Their efferent vessels pass chiefly to the thoracic duct, but a few of the higher on each side join those from the bronchial glands. Some small glands lie in contact with the thoracic portion of the inferior vena cava. They receive the superficial lymphatics of the posterior border of the liver and some of the deep lymphatics of the liver. Their efferent ducts pass backwards on the diaphragm to the thoracic duct. Vessels. The superficial vessels of the thoracic wall pass to the axillary glands. The greater number of those from the mammary gland reach the group of axillary glands which is placed along the lower border of the pectoralis major, but a few from the inner side are directed to the anterior intercostal glands. The deep parietal vessels pass to the anterior and posterior intercostal glands, as do also those of the parietal pleura. The lymj)hatics of the diaphragm pass to the anterior and posterior mediastinal and inter- costal glands. The vessels fromt the lungs and from the visceral layer of the pleura are directed to the bronchial glands. The oesophageal lymphatics end in the posterior mediastinal glands. Those of the pericardium pass to the anterior, superior, and posterior mediastinal glands. The cardiac lymphatics form a plexus on the surface of the heart and terminate in two trunks, that of the right side passing in front of the aorta, that of the left keeping to the left of the pulmonary artery, and both terminating in the superior mediastinal glands.