681 THE INTEENAL EAR raodiolar side of the rods of Corti a simple epithelium lines the sulcus spiralis, and is prolonged outwards. Where it abuts against the inner rods the cells become elongated and arranged in more than one stratum. The outermost row of those placed superficially have free extremities lying close to the headplates of the rods, and each carry a row of short, straight hair-like processes. They are called the inner auditory cells. External to the outer rods the epithelial structures are more elongated, presenting in the basal turn three, and in the others four rows of outer auditory cells, separated and supported by other cells of elongated form, cells of Deiters, which are broad beneath them, and prolonged between them as narrow pillars. The outer auditory cells have straight hair-like processes arranged on the summit of each in a single curved line. Between the summits of the inner- most row, elongated squamous processes extend from the headplates of the ah c d f (J h i h I m no p Fig. 517.—View of Surface of Organ of Corti in Child at Birth, a. Epithelium of membrane of Reissnei- turned over ; h, its attachment; c, epithelium of limbus : d, labium vestibulare : /, sulcus spiralis : g, inner support-cells ; h, inner auditory cells ; i, k, ends of rods; I, outer auditory cells ; wi, phalanses ; n, outer cells of membrana reticularis; o, cells of Hensen ; p, cells of Claudius. (Bohm and v. Davidoff, after Retzius.) outer rods; and other squamous plates, phalanges, fit in between the extremities of these processes, and are interposed between the auditory cells of the second row, while another row similarly fits in between the ends of the first phalanges and separates the third row of auditory cells one from another. These phalanges are connected with the summits of the cells of Deiters, but are separable from them at the same time that they retain their connection one with another so as to form the membrana reticidaris, which is continued out into an unbroken layer of cells {of Hensen) composing the outer limit of the papilla spiralis. Beyond this the part of the basilar membrane uncovered by the papilla spiralis has a simple epithelium of large cubical cells (of Claudius). The whole papilla spiralis is covered over by a remarkable membrane called merahrane of Corti (membrana tectoria), which lies free in the canalis cochleae. It is attached to the crista spiralis close to the membrane of Eeissner, and is free externally, arching over the organ of Corti, but slightly curled upwards at the margin, and presents no structure save a distinct oblique striation. The nerves of the cochlea are arranged in the canals of the modiolus in