MUSCLES OF UPPEE LIMB. 281 important need be briefly noticed. The humeral head of the pronator teres sometimes extends upwards along the supracondylar ridge for some distance, and when a supracondylar process is present the muscle is usually connected with it. The palmaris longus is absent in one out of every ten cases ; it is often double ; sometimes its muscular belly is found in the lower part of the forearm, the muscle springing by a narrow tendon. The flexor digitorum sublimis is sometimes absent, its place being taken by a short muscle which springs in the hand from the annular ligament and palmar aponeurosis; less important is the absence of its radial head, or the division of the muscle into four fleshy bellies. In connection with the deep flexor an accessory slip from the coronoid process to one or other of the tendons has been frequently observed. To the lower extremities of the radius and ulna respectively two small muscles, the radio-carpal and cubito-carpal, have occasionally been found attached; the first passes towards the trapezium and os magnum, the second to the unciform. The radial extensors of the carj^us frequently send a slip to the metacarpal bone or to one of the special muscles of the thumb. The tendon of insertion of the ulnar extensor of the carpus often sends on an expansion which reaches the back of the first phalanx of the little finger. From the upper part of the supinator brevis two small slips have been observed to pass to the orbicular ligament, reaching it, the one in front and the other behind, and acting as tensors of the ligament. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. The palmaris brevis consists of a few fleshy fibres springing from the inner edge of the palmar fascia and inserted into the skin on the inner border of the palm. It is very variable in size, and is sometimes absent altogether. It crosses superficially the ulnar artery and nerve. Muscles connected with the Thumb. The short muscles of the thumb form the thenar eminence of the hand. The abductor poUicis (abductor pollicis brevis) arises from the outer part of the annular ligament and from the ridge of the trapezium. It is inserted into the outer border of the first phalanx of the thumb at its base. The opponens pollicis springs from the outer part of the anterior annular ligament and the surface of the trapezium. It is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the thumb along the whole length of its outer border and the adjacent part of its anterior surface. The muscle lies behind the abductor. The flexor pollicis brevis is formed of two portions—an outer which is also superficial at its origin, and an inner or deep portion. The outer