THE AETEEIES OF THE BEAIN. 423 and finally give off very slender twigs which enter the surface of the brain. The neighbouring branches anastomose with one another in the pia mater, but the twigs which ramify in the brain substance have no anastomotic connection with one another. The superficial branches of the anterior cerebral artery supply the anterior and inner part of the orbital surface, the whole inner surface of the frontal lobe, the anterior and upper part of the outer surface of the frontal lobe, the whole inner surface of the parietal lobe, and the corpus callosum. The superficial branches of the middle celehral supply the posterior and outer part of the orbital surface, the posterior and lower part of the outer surface of the frontal lobe, the island of Reil, the whole of the outer surface of the parietal lobe, and the two upper convolutions of the outer surface of the temporal lobe. Those of the posterior cerehral supply the remaining part of the temporal lobe and the whole of the occipital lobe. A very small branch from the posterior communicating artery is given to the uncinate convolution of the temporal lobe. The choroid arteries belong to the superficial group; the largest of them, the anterior choroid, detaches numerous small branches to the optic thalamus and to the hippo- campus major. The deep branches are slender vessels which pierce the base of the brain and ramify chiefly in the basal ganglia, which they largely supply. Like the branches of the superficial arteries which enter the brain substance, they do not anastomose with one another. They are divided into six groups, an antero-mesial and a postero-mesial, and, on each side, an antero-lateral and a postero-lateral. The antero-mesial group is formed by a few branches from the anterior communicating and anterior cerebral arteries; they pass through the lamina cinerea and reach the anterior end of the caudate nucleus. The antero-latercd group (Fig. 325) springs from the middle cerebral artery; it is formed of numerous vessels which pierce the anterior perforated spot: they complete the supply of the caudate nucleus, and likewise pass to the lenticular nucleus, the external and internal capsules, and the anterior part of the optic thalamus. One of these vessels, somewhat larger than the others, and placed externally to them, has frequently been found ruptured, and has, in consequence, been named by Charcot, "the artery of cerebral haemorrhage." The postero-lateral group is formed of two or three small vessels which spring from the posterior cerebral artery on the outer side of the crus, and pass to the posterior part of the optic thalamus and to the corpora quadrigemina. The postero-mesicd group is composed of five or six vessels which arise from the posterior cerebral arteries close to their origin, and pass upwards through the posterior perforated spot to the inner part of the crus and to the optic thalamus. The anterior choroid artery, a small vessel, arises from the internal carotid trunk close to its extremity. It passes backwards, and, under cover of the uncinate convolution, to which it detaches some small branches, enters the extremity of the descending cornu; it ramifies in the choroid