149 THE METACAEPUS. The Metacarpus. The metacarpal bones are five in number, supporting the digits. Each has a base, a slightly curved shaft, and a distal extremity or head •convex from side to side as well as from dorsum to palm, and prolonged furthest up on the palmar aspect. The first metacarpal bone, that of the thumb, requires separate description. The other four decrease regularly in size from the second to the fifth, and while diff'ering considerably at their bases, have the following characters of shaft and head. The shafts of the four inner metacarpals expand gradually from imme- diately beyond the base, and present dorsally a flat triangular surface which extends up from the head and is prolonged at its apex by a ridge separating lateral surfaces. These latter give attachment to muscles, and meet on the palmar aspect in a ridge on the distal half of the shaft. The head of each of the four inner metacarpals presents an articular surface increasing in breadth from behind forwards. It has beneath it, in front, a depression to receive the first phalanx in flexion, and on the sides of this has prolongations which never come into contact with the phalanx. The angles at the base of the triangular area at the back of the shaft project laterally as tiiherdes close to the head, which, together Avith depressions in front of them, give attachment to the lateral ligaments. The bases of the four inner metacarpal bones have characteristic features distinguishing them one from another. The base of the second has its upper surface grooved to fit on to the trapezoid, and has two lateral pro- jections upwards, the outer of which is seen only behind, and bears a lateral facet for articulation with the trapezium, while the inner articulates laterally with the third metacarpal bone all the way forwards, and comes in contact with the os magnum in. front. The base of the third metacarpal presents at its posterior and outer angle an upward projection or styloid process, ascending beyond the adjacent prominence of the second; it articulates above with the os magnum, and at each side with the adjacent metacarpals, while on the outer side of the styloid process it has an angular facet for the trapezoid. The fourth metacarpal articulates at its sides with the third and fifth, while its upper surface inclines very slightly inwards and articulates mainly with the unciform bone, but also by a small facet beliind and to the outer side with the os magnum. The fifth metacarpal articulates above with the unciform bone, externally with the fourth metacarpal, and has a free rough surface internally, giving attachment to the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The first metacarpcd hone is shorter and broader than any of the others. Its shaft is somewhat flattened from before backwards, presenting posteriorly a uniform surface bounded by lateral ridges in front of which is the anterior surface, which is divided by a smooth elevation into a broader outer part on which the opponens pollicis is inserted, and a narrower inner part giving