THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 474 fissure, enters the cavernous sinus anteriorly, and is connected posteriorly, through superior and posterior anastomotic veins, with the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses respectively. The superficial cerebral veins anastomose freely with one another. The deep cerebral veins enter the veins of Gaten, two trunks which run backwards side by side between the layers of the velum interpositum, and eventually join with one another to form the vena magna Galeni, a short stem which enters the straight sinus. Each vein of Galen (Fig. 356) is formed in the neighbourhood of the foramen of Monro by the junction of two vessels, namely, (a) the choroid vein, a- vessel which ascends and passes forwards in the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle, and (b) the vein of the corpus striatum, which runs forwards in the groove between the optic thalamus and corpus striatum, receiving branches from both. Passing backwards the veins of Galen are joined by branches from the optic thalamus, the choroid plexus of the third ventricle, the corpus callosum, and the corpora quadrigemina. Near its termination each vein receives a large branch, the basilar vein, which, commencing in front near the anterior perforated space by the junction of some anterior cerebral veins, from the under surface of the orbital region, with the deep Sylvian vein, from the island of Reil, runs backwards, receiving on its way inferior veins of the corpus striatum, emerging from the anterior perforated spot, and a number of tributaries from the region of the tuber cinereum, from the inner surface of the parietal and occipital lobes, and from the mid-brain. Some superior cerebellar veins join the vena magna Galeni. Cerebellar veins. From the upper surface of the cerebellum branches pass to the great vein of Galen, and to the straight, lateral, and superior petrosal sinuses; the branches from the under surface pass to the lateral, inferior petrosal, and occipital sinuses. The Veins of the Orbit. The common ophthalmic vein (Fig. 357) is a short trunk which commences in the posterior part of the orbit, being formed by the union of the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins ; it passes backwards between the heads of the external rectus muscle, below the entering nerves, and through the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, to terminate in the anterior extremity of the cavernous sinus. The superior ophthalmic vein commences in front in connection with the supraorbital, frontal, and angular veins, and passes backwards, crossing above the optic nerve in front of the ophthalmic artery, receiving as it goes the upper muscular, anterior and posterior ethmoidal, lachrymal, anterior ciliary, upper posterior ciliary veins, and the central vein of the retina. The inferior ophthalmic vein, taking origin from the union of some of the lower muscular veins with the lower posterior ciliary veins, passes