THE HIP-JOINT. of the thigh the acetabulo-femoral fibres have their two attachments brought opposite one to the other, and are untwisted, while the circular fibres behind are placed on the stretch. Abduction with outward rotation spreads out the fibres of the front of the capsule; flexion with adduc- tion and rotation inwards spreads out the ischial fibres behind. The round ligament is placed on the stretch in only one position, namely, when a slight degree of flexion is combined with adduction. This can be seen by removal of the deep part of the acetabulum without injuring the ligaments. The position mentioned is that into which the joint is thrown in the extreme of the position called in military drill "standing at ease." In ordinary life the position called "attention" in drill, namely, with the weight of the body equally distributed on the two lower limbs both kept straight at the knee, is rarely made use of; the natural attitude of rest when standing being with the weight principally thrown on one straight limb, while the other is used for balance, and slightly bent; and it is when the maximum of weight is thrown on one limb and the maximum obliquity given to the pelvis that the round ligament comes into use. It is sometimes alleged to be a feeble liga- ment; but this is never the case in young and healthy joints. The margins of the acetabulum and articular cartilage of the femur are made parallel in a position combining flexion, abduction and rotation outwards, which is that assumed in sitting cross-legged on the floor. In ordinary circumstances, and especially when the thigh is behind in running, the back of the head of the femur is embedded in the acetabulum, and the fore part exposed and pressed against the capsule. Yet dislocations backwards are far more common than dislocations forwards. The Knee-Joint. To understand the knee-joint properly it must be recognized as con- sisting of three joints intercommunicating, namely, a patellar and an external and internal tibio-femoral. These three joints are distinct, or almost so, in a number of ungulate animals, and are probably always distinct in their first appearance. The two originally separate tibio-femoral joints are hinge-joints, and have each an external and internal lateral liga- ment; but the internal lateral of the outer joint and the external lateral of the inner joint are called the crucial ligaments, and the others the lateral ligaments of the knee-joint. Further, there is between each con- dyle of the femur and the tibia a fibro-plate of semilunar form. The fibrous capsule of the knee-joint is strong behind and at the sides, but weak in front. Above the patella, where the joint is covered by the extensor muscles, the capsule is absent. On each side of the jDatella it is formed above by spreading aponeurotic insertions of the vasti muscles, and, lower down, takes the form of retinacula of the patella. The external lateral ligament consists of two parts. Foremost is the