MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 255 vertebrae, (b) from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, by means of which it is connected with all the lumbar and sacral spines and the outer lip of the posterior third of the iliac crest, (c) from a small portion of the crest in front of the limit of the attachment of the lumbar aponeurosis, ((/) from the lowest three or four ribs by fleshy slips which interdigitate with slips of the external oblique muscle, and (e) in many cases by a few fibres at its upper border from the fascia covering the lower angle of the scapula. It is inserted by a tendon about an inch and a half in breadth into the floor of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The muscle crosses behind the lower angle of the scapula and covers the teres major at its origin, but passing further outwards folds completely round the lower border of the teres major and becomes applied to it anteriorly, taking part with it in the formation of the posterior wall of the axilla. The muscle becomes tendinous two or three inches from the insertion, and the tendon is at first in close contact with that of the teres major, but near the bone a bursa is interposed between them. The latissimus is covered at its upper part posteriorly by the trapezius, but further outwards an angular interval, sometimes alluded to as the "auscultatory triangle," is left between the borders of the two muscles and the edge of the rhomboideus major. The outer margin of the part of the muscle which springs from the iliac crest frequently overlaps the posterior margin of the external oblique muscle; but, on the other hand, in many cases there is left between the borders of the two muscles a space in which a portion of the internal oblique is exposed. The nerve of supply is the long subscapular from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus; it is to be found on the deep surface of the outer part of the muscle. Occasionally muscular bands are prolonged from the latissimus across the axillary vessels to the muscles of the anterior wall of the axilla, or downwards to the muscles and fascia of the inner and back part of the arm. The rhomboideus major arises by short aponeurotic fibres from the spines and interspinous ligaments of the second, third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrae; it is inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula in the region between the root of the spine and the lower angle of the bone. The greater number of the fibres do not directly reach the bone, but pass into one or more tendinous bands concealed within the muscular substance and lying close to the scapular margin to which at their extremities they are attached. The rhomboideus minor springs from the lower end of the ligamentum nuchae and from the spines of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae. It is inserted into the vertebral border of the scapula at the root of the spine. The rhomboidei together form a four-sided fleshy mass directed downwards and outwards, covered posteriorly in the greater part of its extent by the trapezius, overlapped at the lower and outer angle by the latissimus dorsi, but appearing superficially in the narrow area between