GENERAL ANATOMY. 9 Human anatomy is the study of the structure of the human body, and inasmuch as organisms are vegetable and animal, and the human body is the highest animal organism, human anatomy has to deal not only with shapes special to man, but also with structures found in modified form in other animals, and even with elements of texture common to animals and vegetables. Human anatomy is therefore only a branch of a larger science. The anthropotomist is incompetent, unaided by com- parative anatomy, to deal with many questions of morphology of human structures, and he must extend his researches into physiology to com- prehend their functional significance. Human anatomy is important, not only in its relations to science, but in the assistance which its facts aff^ord to other pursuits. Thus, artistic anatomy, the study of the human frame in relation to its correct deline- ation by sculptors and painters, is a branch which admits of much greater attention than it has yet received; it does not, however, come within the scope of the present work. More closely bearing on our purposes is the assistance w^hich human anatomy renders to medicine and surgery, lying as it does at the foundation of the precision with which anatomical details are taught in our medical schools; and, indeed, it is to be noted that many details respecting the precise relations of parts, which do not appear to have great scientific interest, are most important in surgery. The human body presents for consideration textures, and organs com- posed of textures. The investigation of the textures is called Histology, and includes all microscopic anatomy whether of diffused structures or of special organs, while the term General Anatomy excludes the microscopy of special organs and embraces the whole consideration of parts distributed through different regions of the body. The special organs form the subject of Descriptive Anatomy. They may be arranged in systems, such as the osseous, muscular, vascular, nervous and visceral; and when these are taken in series, as will be done in this work, the method of instruction is called Systematic Anatomy. But the different parts may also be brought under notice in the order in which they are laid bare in dissection of the diff'erent regions; and this is called Regional or Topographical Anatomy. Methods. In a text book of this sort, methods do not fall to be con- sidered in detail; but some of them may be enumerated. The most important method of Anatomy is Dissection, from which the science takes Its name; and to facilitate dissection, as well as to render preparations permanent, preservative substances require to be used. Maceration is employed for the clearing of bones from their surroundings, and sometimes for the separation and exhibition of other structures. Injection is used to dilate the larger bloodvessels and fill them with solid material, and also to display microscopic tubes by filling them with coloured fluid. Continuous Sections are used both in microscopic and larger anatomy; and in microscopic anatomy staining with dyes is largely resorted to.