THE NERVES. o24 integument of the inner and posterior part of the arm, reaching nearly to the elbow. The remaining lateral branches divide, before reaching the surface, into anterior and posterior twigs, which ramify subcutaneously, and form connections in front with the supraclavicular and anterior cutaneous nerves, and behind with the cutaneous offsets of the posterior primary •divisions. The posterior cutaneous twig of the third nerve is large, and supplies the integument of the base of the axilla, forming connections with the intercosto-humeral nerve. The muscular branches supply the levatores costarum, the external and internal intercostal muscles, the serratus posticus superior^ and the tri- angularis sterni. The lower five intercostal nerves. These are at first similar in course to the upper nerves; eventually, however, they enter the abdominal wall and run forwards between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. The anterior cutaneous branches, somewhat irregular, reach the surface in a double row by the outer and inner borders of the rectus. The lateral ■cutaneous branches appear between the digitations of the external oblique muscle, and divide like the majority of those of the higher nerves into anterior and posterior twigs. The muscular branches supply the levatores costarum, the external and internal intercostal muscles, the serratus posticus inferior, the transversalis, the rectus, the internal oblique, and the external oblique. The last dorsal nerve passes outwards in company with the first lumbar artery, escaping below the ligamentum arcuatum externum, crossing anteriorly the quadratus lumborum muscle, and piercing the posterior tendon of the transversalis muscle. Its subsequent course is similar to that of one of the lower intercostal nerves. The lateral branch does not divide into two, but, piercing the external oblique some little distance above its insertion, is continued downwards over the iliac crest, a little behind the anterior superior spine, and supplies the integument of the anterior part of the gluteal region. The other branches are similar to those of one of the lower intercostal nerves. THE LUMBAR PLEXUS. The lumbar plexus (Figs. 389, 390) is formed in front of the transverse processes, in the substance of the psoas muscle, from the anterior divisions of the first four lumbar nerves. The first receives a slender branch from the last dorsal nerve, and detaches a connecting branch to the second lumbar; the second, third, and fourth break up into branches which form the roots of the chief derivatives of the plexus ; the fourth gives off a connecting branch, which descends to the fifth and assists in forming the lumbo-sacral cord. Each of the nerves is joined by communicating branches from the lumbar ganglia of the sympathetic chain. The branches of the plexus are the ilio-hypogastric, the ilio-inguinal, the genito-crural, the external cutaneous, the anterior crural, the obturator, and, in occasional