THE VEINS OF THE HEAET. 469 right costal cartilage to the level of the third right costal cartilage, where it enters the right auricle. It is about three inches in length, and receives about half-way down the great azj'gos vein. Above the entrance of the azygos vein it is overlapped by the right pleura, and the right pneumogastric nerve lies behind it; below, it is enveloped except for a narrow line posteriorly, by the pericardium, and rests behind on the right bronchus and the right pulmonary artery and veins. On its left side it is in contact with the ascending portion of the aorta; the phrenic nerve descends on its right side. In addition to the larger tributaries, it receives some minute veins from the anterior mediastinum. Right innominate vein (Fig. 351). This vessel is formed by the junction of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. It is a little over an inch in length, and descends, with a slight inclination inwards, on the right side of the innominate artery, from behind the sternal end of the clavicle to the level of the first costal cartilage. It is in contact with the pleura externally and posteriorly; the phrenic nerve descends by its outer border, and the pneumogastric is placed behind it. In front of it lie some remains of the thymus gland and, on the deep surface of the clavicle, the origin of the sterno-hyoid muscle. Its lateral tributaries are the vertebral^ the inferior thyroid, and the internal mammary veins; and it receives at its commence- ment the right lymphatic duct. Left innominate vein (Fig. 351). The left innominate, formed by the junction of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins, is about three inches in length. Commencing behind the sternal end of the left clavicle, it passes to the right, descending slightly as it goes, and crosses behind the upper part of the manubrium and in front of the three great branches of the transverse portion of the aorta, to terminate behind the first right costal cartilage. It is placed above the arch of the aorta, and in front of it lie the remains of the thymus gland and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Its lateral tributaries are the vertebral, inferior thyroid, internal mammary, left superior intercostal, and some small pericardial and thymic veins; and it receives at its commencement the thoracic duct. The innominate veins have no valves. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The vertebral vein commences in the suboccipital triangle as a plexus of small vessels communicating with the occipital, deep cervical, and spinal veins. The plexus is continued downwards through the successive foramina, receiving as it descends some small spinal and muscular branches. Lower down the plexus gives place to a single vessel which emerges in front of the vertebral artery, crosses the subclavian artery, and terminates in the innominate vein. Close to its termination the vertebral vein is joined by the deep cervical vein, the anterior vertebral vein (a muscular branch from the front of the column), and as a rule