415 THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The superior thyroid artery (Figs. 318, 323) assists in supplying the thyroid body. It springs from the anterior border of the external carotid, close to its commencement, and arches at first forwards and downwards, and then descends under cover of the omo-hyoid, sterno hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles. Its terminal branches ramify in the gland, anastomosing with the inferior thyroid branches of the same side, and to a slight extent also across the middle line with the arteries of the opposite side. In its course the superior thyroid artery furnishes the following branches: (1) the hyoid, a slender twig directed inwards on the thyro-hyoid membrane, immediately beneath the hyoid bone; (2) the sterno-mastoid, a small vessel, descending for a little distance in front of the carotid sheath; (3) the superior laryngeal, piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane along with the superior laryngeal nerve, and ramifying on the inner wall of the larynx; (4) the crico- thyroid, a very slender twig, but of importance on account of its position, as it may give rise to haemorrhage in the operation of laryngotomy, passing, as it does, towards the middle line on the crico-thyroid mem- brane, close to the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. The lingual artery (Figs. 318, 323) springs from the anterior border of the external carotid, opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes forwards on the deep surface of the hyo-glossus muscle to the tongue, but does not pursue a straight course. Close to its origin, it forms a small arch with the convexity upwards, and is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve; thereafter, directed forwards, it runs above the great cornu of the hyoid bone at a lower level than the nerve; then, at the anterior border of the hyo glossus, it bends sharply upwards to reach the tongue, along the under surface of which, under the name of ranine artery, it is continued forwards. It rests successively upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio-glossus. It is crossed, near its origin, by the posterior belly of the digastric, and it is covered, further forwards, by the hyo-glossus muscle. Its named branches are : (1) the hyoid, a small twig which runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone; (2) the dorsal artery or arteries of the tongue, arising under cover of the hyo-glossus and piercing the posterior part of the tongue ; (3) the sublingual, a branch of moderate size, supplying the sublingual gland and the surrounding parts. The ranine artery, giving off numerous branches, runs forwards with a tortuous course along the under surface of the tongue towards the tip ; near its termina- tion, by the side of the fraenum, it is very superficial. There is but little anastomosis between the vessels of opposite sides. The ascending pharyngeal artery (Fig. 318), a long slender vessel, arises from the deep surface of the external carotid, about the level of the place of origin of the lingual artery. It passes upwards, to the base of the skull, upon the wall of the pharynx, crossing the deep surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. It supplies delicate offsets to the prevertebral muscles, the wall of the pharynx, the tonsil, the Eustachian tube, and the palatal muscles. Its terminal branches enter the skull by the foramen