595 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION. directed to the anterior perforated spot, while the lamina cinerea fills up the interval and forms the anterior wall of a cul-de-sac of the floor of the third ventricle, bounded below and behind by the optic commissure. The optic nerves are, strictly speaking, portions of the brain, as are also parts of the contents of the eyeballs, both being derived from the primary optic vesicles of the embryo. In like manner, underneath the anterior lobes of the hemispheres, and resting on the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, there is a pair of structures, the olfactory lobes, each consisting of a narrow tract and broader bulb, formerly known as nerves, but now universally acknowledged to be lobes of the brain, giving off the olfactory nerves from the under surface of the bulbs (Fig. 453). It may be well also at this stage to indicate shortly the superficial origins of the other cranial nerves. They appear: the oculo-motor (3rd) on the inner side of the crus cerebri, just above the pons, and passing between the posterior cerebral and the superior cerebellar artery; the nervus patheticus (4th) on the outside of the crus, close to the pons, and below the superior cerebellar artery; the trigeminal (5th) from between the fibres of the pons, towards its outer extremity; the ahducens oCuli (6th), near the mesial plane, between the pons and what is called the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata; the facial and the auditory nerve, between the pons and the side of the medulla oblongata, in the angle between them and the cerebellum, the auditory to the outside; the glosso-plianjngeal, from the medulla oblongata just below the facial, in a furrow behind what will be described as the olivary body; the vagus or pneumogastric in the same furrow; the spinal accessory in a line continuous with the vagus; and the hypoglossol in the furrow internal to the olivary body. II. THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. The medulla oblongata {myelencephalon) is about an inch long. Its ventral surface is bounded above by the lower border of the pons Varolii, and its dorsal surface is continued into the floor of the fourth ventricle. The anterior fissure of the spinal cord is continued up to the border of the pons, beneath which it has an abrupt end {foramen caecum); but about two-thirds of an inch lower down it becomes shallow for a third of an inch, and, when it is opened out, four or five bundles of white substance on each side are laid bare as they slope downwards and cross the mesial plane, decussating with their neighbours of the opposite side, and dis- appearing by dipping into the interior. This is the decussation of the anterior pyramids, already referred to in connection with the tracts of the spinal cord, and its lower border may be taken as the limit of the medulla oblongata. The anterior pyramid is an elongated elevation alongside of the middle line, becoming narrower and less prominent below; external to it is another elevation limited inferiorly, the olivary body; and external to the olivary body a thick rounded column, named restiform body on account of shallow