593 GENEEAL CONSTRUCTION. Superior surface. The part of the brain in contact with the cranial vault is formed by the two hemispheres, separated by the great longitudinal Jissure, into which the falx cerebri descends; and at the bottom of this fissure, in the extent corresponding with the free margin between the tentorial and ethmoidal attachments of the falx, the hemispheres are united one with the other by a great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum. Inferior surface or base. The medulla oblongata is continuous with the spinal cord, and abruptly crossed at its other extremity by the pons Varolii, whose fibres gather together on each side and plunge into the cerehellwn. The cerebellum spreads its lateral lobes on each side of the medulla oblongata and pons, and occupies the whole of the rest of the posterior fossa basis cranii behind them; it roofs over a space, the fourth ventricle, of which they form the floor. The hemispheres extend backwards over the cerebellum and forwards to fill the frontal part of the cranium; and its projections in these directions are termed the posterior and anterior lobes, while a third projection of each hemisphere, distinguished as the middle lobe,^ fills the middle fossa basis cranii external to the free edge of the tentorium, and is separated from the anterior lobe by the Jissure of Sylvius, hidden within which there is a limited group of convolutions, the gyri operti or Island of Reil, the surface of the root-part of the hemisphere. Emerging in mutual contact at the border of the pons, the crura cerebri diverge as they enter the optic thalami from below, and become concealed by the middle lobes of the hemispheres, while the transverse fissure of the brain, the middle part of which is placed above, between the corpus callosum and the corpora quadrigemina, enters on each side between the crus cerebri and the middle lobe. Crossing each crus, a white band, the ojMc tract, is directed forwards and inwards to the middle line, where it meets its neighbour and forms, in conjunction with it, the op)tic commissure, from which the optic nerves are continued. The optic nerves strike out free, being surrounded by a prolongation of the pia mater; but the optic tracts present only one free surface, and enter into the construction of the wall of the brain. A little external to the optic commissure, at the inner end of the Sylvian fissure, on each side, there is an area pierced by a large number of small arteries, the anterior perforated spot. Between the crura ^ The expressions, anterior, posterior and middle lobe have been dismissed by some writers, but are still useful in their original sense as applied to projections in three different directions. The more modern expressions, frontal, parietal, occipital, temporal, orbital, central, limbic and falciform lobe, are neither applicable to pro- jections nor to masses of the whole substance of the hemisphere, but properly refer to definite groups of convolutions. Professor Macalister has clearly and correctly stated the nature of these latter: '' Certain infoldings are early and constant, and form important landmarks dividing the surface into areas called lohes. It must be borne in mind that these are only surface markings." Much confusion has resulted from neglect of this distinction. The anterior, middle and posterior lobes are lohes of jyvojection ; the groups of convolutions are surface-lohes. 2p