SPINAL CORD. 589 certain distance, quit the white substance, and in their course they are pushed toward the mesial plane by others entering above them (Fig. 425). The collaterals given off from axis-cylinders in the white substance add to the structure of the spinal cord a remarkable complication, our knowledge of which is due to Golgi's methods and dates no earlier than from 1880. These delicate fibres are given off at right angles from axis- cylinders, and pass horizontally into the grey substance to end in arboriza- tions. They arise very abundantl}^ from the posterior columns, springing there in greater number from fibres of posterior roots. Of these one important group extends directly forwards into the anterior cornu, and Fig. 427.—Section of Spinal Cord of Dog at Birth, showing Disposition of Collaterals, a, Bundles crossing the substance of Rolando ; b, bundles crossing from outer side of cornu to opposite side; c, dense plexus; d, from posterior column to posterior cornu of opposite side ; e, f, middle and anterior bundles in grey commissure ; G, sensivito-motor bundles ; h, i, from anterior and lateral columns ; l, point of origin of numbers of sensitivo-motor bundles; m, fasciculus going to Clarke's column ; n, situation of anterior corpuscles. (Cajal.) surrounds with its arborizations the corpuscles of the motor nerve-roots, constituting the sensitivo-motor or reflexo-motoi' fibres, and furnishing an explanation of reflex actions. Others form a dense plexus in front of the substance of Rolando. A third set crosses the middle line, many of its fibres springing from the column of Goll; M'hile a fourth small set, coming from the column of Goll, ends by embracing the corpuscles of the posterior reticular column of Lockhart Clarke. A number of the collaterals springing from the antero-lateral columns cross the middle line, those of the anterior column passing in front of the central canal, and those of the lateral columns passing behind it. The researches of Brown-Sequard first showed that sensory impressions