779' THE PEOSTATE, PENIS AND URETHEA. and both ducts and acini lined with cohimnar epithelium. They are absent, or nearly so, from in front of the urethra. The muscular substance ij> wrapped round about at different depths; the deepest fibres are continuous with the circular fibres already described at the neck of the bladder, and superficial to them are others decussating with different degrees of obli(piity on the urethra and continued into the vesical wall. On section of the pro- state, fibres are seen embracing the urethra, others at the circumference,, and a third set extending in the intervening depth between the glands. The arrangement of the glandular part of the third lobe between the urethra in front and muscular and white-fibrous tissue beliind is of importance from a surgical point of view, inasmuch as the prostate is prone to enlargement in later life, and the enlarged glandular part of the third lobe, being supported behind by muscle and thickened fibrous tissue, tends to pres& forwards and make an increased convexity in the floor of the urethra^ which offers resistance to the direct passage of instruments and has to be carefidly humoured. The prostate is supplied principally by the inferior vesical arteries. The plexus of veins around it is not so much derived from branches bringing blood from its substance as from the veins of the penis; the nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses, and are said to present nerve-cells in their course, and also Pacinian bodies. The penis consists fundamentally of two erectile bodies called corpora cavernosa, but in mammals is complicated by the prolongation of the urethra Dorsal artery- Superficial and deep dorsal veins—-s, | Dorsal nerve Cavernous artery Fibrous wall of I corpus cavevnosum . . - Septum U rethra m corpus spongiosum Fig. 609.—Body of Penis in Transverse Section. along its under surface, surrounded by a mesial erectile body, the corpus spongiosum, in connection with the fore part of which is the glans, an erectile structure expanding over the extremities of the corpora cavernosa. The corpora cavernosa are cylindrical structures consisting of spongy erectile tissue surrounded by a strong fibrous sheath. They arise separately, attached, one on each side, to the margins of the pubic arch, and taper backwards as far as the front of the ischial tuberosity, with the ischio- cavernosi or erectores penis muscles covering them. They become united opposite the inferior margin of the symphysis so as to leave only a single fibrous septum between the two columns of erectile tissue, and constitute with the corpus spongiosum the body of the penis, while the separate portions