BLOODVESSELS. 59 The Arteries have tough thick walls, the walls of the systemic arteries being considerably stronger than those of the pulmonary circu- lation. They elongate and expand when fluid is propelled into them, and recover their form by their elasticity. The larger arteries, when empty, are flattened by the pressure of their surroundings, but their walls are too thick to admit of their being in perfect contact; the smaller arteries contract circularly. Arteries have got three coats, with different properties, each containing more than one kind of texture. If an artery be cut across, the greater part of the thickness of its walls presents a yellowish tint. This part is the timica media, and the whiter and less dense coat outside it is the tunica adventitia, while internally, with the assistance of a lens or a low power of the microscope, a thin membrane can be distinguished, the tunica intima. The tunica adventitia consists principally of dense areolar tissue, the felted bundles of which are seen with the naked eye crossing one another with every degree of obliquity. In its deeper part it likewise contains abundant yellow-elastic tissue so arranged as to be intermediate between perforated membrane and a lattice-work of fibres with longitudinal inclination. When an artery is ligatured, the tunica adventitia remains intact. The tunica media consists of two elements—yellow-elastic tissue and unstriped muscle. The yellow-elastic tissue is less fibrous than in the Fig. 55.—Elastic Tissue from Outer and Middle Arterial Coats. A, Fine net- work from middle coat of radial artery ; B, elastic lamina from middle coat of subclavian artery; C, coarse network from bounding layer between middle and outer coats of femoral artery. (Toldt.) tunica adventitia, and presents delicate laminae, which intercommunicate so as to form a network inclosing the muscular fibres in its meshes. The muscular fibres form the principal bulk of the middle coat. They are circularly disposed. When an artery is ligatured the thread presses