56 GENERAL ANATOMY. Spheroidal epithelial cells are found in the ventricles of the brain; they bear cilia, and constitute a ciliated spheroidal epithelium. The term spheroidal is further applied to the secreting corpuscles occupying the lobules of a number of glands, such as the salivary; corpuscles whose shape is more aptly described as ijolyhedral. They are often called glandular epithelium, but their shape is not distinctive of glandular func- tion, seeing that secreting corpuscles are often of a cubical or columnar form. Ciliated epithelium presents on its free surface innumerable cilia or hair-like processes crowded together on the individual cells. These cilia during life are in constant motion, so rapid that individually they are invisible, though their presence is made apparent by the movement they give to the fluid in which they are lying. The cells on which they are placed have always a cell-wall, and the movement continues as long as the cell is kept alive in a suitable serum or weak saline solution. Small groups of cells scraped from a surface may be rotated rapidly by the motion of the cilia. If the movement be watched as it grows slower before stopping, it will be seen that the cilia bend over in one direction, straightening themselves with a feathering sweep, and move the fluid in the direction in which they bend. The movement is always in one direction, and is doubtless always towards the outlet of the passage lined, thus keeping it microscopically free from solid particles. The cilia have been made out to be connected with the protoplasm within the cells, but no structure has been demonstrated in them. It is ingeniously suggested l>y Schiifer that they may be hollow and moved by the projection of sub- stance from within the cell. If the one side be supposed to be hollow and expansible while the other is resistant, the theory is compatible with the straight position of the cilia after death, and with the "bent position being that of tension. In mammalia ciliated epithelium may be either simple or stratified, and is columnar, except in the four ventricles of the brain, where it is simple spheroidal, though in the central canal of the cord it is simple ciliated columnar. Ciliated epithelium is found throughout the respirator}^ tract, with certain exceptions, and in the Eustachian tubes and lachrymal passages; also in the epididymis, and in the uterus and Fallopian tubes. Regarded functionally, epithelium of the squamous sort is generally protective, although the sebaceous glands seem to offer an exception to this rule ; ciliated epithelium has likewise a mechanical function, keeping- surfaces clean; polygonal, columnar and cubical epithelium are the forms most freci[uently devoted to secretion. Epithelial cells may also be associated with nervous functions. Thus, in the submaxillary gland, secreting cor- puscles are continuous with efferent nerve-fibres, and in all the organs of special sense there are specialized epithelial elements continuous with afferent nerve-fibres.