THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 416 lacerum medium, the jugular foramen, and the anterior condylar foramen, and supply the dura mater. The facial artery (Fig. 319) takes origin from the anterior border of the external carotid trunk, immediately above the lingual; it passes forwards and upwards, crosses the ramus of the lower jaw, and reaches the face. In the neck it rests, successively, upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the stylo-glossus, and the mylo-hyoid muscles; it is crossed superficially by the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid; and it passes along a groove on the deep surface of the submaxillary gland. Emerging from under cover of the gland, it crosses the jaw^ immediately in front of the anterior border of the masseter muscle. On the face it takes an exceedingly tortuous course, towards the inner canthus of the eye, crossing superficially the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles, and lying under cover of the platysma and zygomatici. Near its termination it usually passes through the substance of the common elevator of the lip and nose. On the face, branches of the facial nerve cross it superficially, and the infraorbital nerve emerges on its deep surface. The companion vein lies, on the face, external to and at some little distance from it; in the neck, the vein descends behind the artery and is more superficially placed. (a) Cervical branches. The tonsillar branch, a long slender twig, ascends, crossing the outer surface of the stylo-giossus muscle, pierces the superior constrictor, and supplies small branches to the tonsil and the side of the tongue. The palatine branch, arising close to the tonsillar, ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, turns over the border of the superior constrictor, and descends with the levator palati to the soft palate. It gives numerous branches to the superior constrictor, the Eus- tachian tube, and the palate, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the descending palatine branches of the internal maxillary. Glandular arteries supply the submaxillary gland. The submental artery, a branch of some size, is given off by the facial immediately before crossing the jaw, and runs forwards on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. It supplies the submaxillary gland, and detaches branches which, piercing the mylo-hyoid, reach the sublingual gland. Its terminal branches cross the ramus near the symphysis, and supply the muscles of the lower lip. It anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, the lingual, the inferior labial of the facial, and the mental branch of the internal maxillary. (&) Facial branches. A number of muscular branches of small size anastomose with the buccal, transverse facial, and infra-orbital arteries. The other branches, which are specially named, are all given off from the anterior border of the parent trunk. The inferior labial artery runs forwards on the deep surface of the depressor anguli oris muscle, and supplies the lower lip and anastomoses with the sub-mental, mental, and inferior coronary vessels. The coronary artery of the lower lip arises below the angle of the mouth; the coronary artery of the upper Up arises above the angle of the mouth : each runs inwards near the margin of the lip,