THE THYROID AXIS. 43I larynx. The ascending cervical arterij is a long slender branch which is given off as the parent vessel is crossing behind the carotid sheath. It runs upwards, for a variable distance, in front of the transverse processes, and gives off small twigs which anastomose with branches of the vertebral and occipital arteries. The ascending cervical artery is somewhat variable in its origin, and may spring directly from the thyroid axis or from the transverse cervical artery. Occasionally it is of large size, and com- pensates, through its anastomosing branches, for deficiency in either the occipital or vertebral artery. The transverse cervical artery (Fig. 328) passes outwards and a little upwards across the lower part of the neck as far as the anterior border of the levator anguli scapulae muscle, where it divides into the superficial cervical, and posterior scapular arteries. It crosses in front of the scalenus anticus and the brachial plexus, sometimes, however, threading its way between the nerve cords, and, passing behind the omo-hyoid, divides under cover of the anterior border of the trapezius. The svperficial cervical branch ramifies on the deep surface of the trapezius. The posterior scapular branch crosses the deep surface of the levator anguli scapulae, and descends along the posterior border of the scapula, on the deep surface of the rhomboidei muscles, distributing numerous branches to both surfaces of the scapula and to the surrounding muscles. It anastomoses with the suprascapular and subscapular arteries, the intercostals, and the superficial cervical artery; a very constant branch passing between the rhomboidei muscles reaches the deep surface of the trapezius. The transverse cervical artery is very irregular; it frequently springs from the third part of the subclavian, or its posterior scapular branch may spring from the third part, while the superficial cervical has the course of the usual trunk. The suprascapular artery (Fig. 328) descends towards the clavicle, and passes outwards along the posterior surface of that bone to the upper margin of the scapula; continuing its course, it crosses over the ligament which completes the suprascapular notch, and descends on the dorsal surface of the scapula, beneath the acromion, to the infraspinous fossa, where its terminal branches ramify. Its chief branches are muscular hvigs, the medullary artery of the clavicle, and a subscapular branch, which, given off as the vessel crosses over the notch, descends on the ventral surface of the scapula. The suprascapular artery anastomoses with the other scapular arteries and with the acromio-thoracic. (3) The internal mammary artery (Figs. 318, 345) arises from the lower border of the first part of the subclavian, usually opposite the place of origin of the thyroid axis. It descends, at first with an inclination forwards and inwards, and reaches the back of the cartilage of the first rib; afterwards it is continued directly downwards, about half an inch from the margin of the sternum, behind the successive rib cartilages, as far as the lower margin of the sixth interspace, where it divides into its terminal branches, the musculo-phrenic and the superior epigastric. In passing from the neck to the