196 THE SKELETON. groove beneath the astragalus, and below to the corresponding groove- on the calcaneum, and consists of a large number of vertical fibres arranged in a broad band, to the fore and inner side of the posterior astragalo- calcaneal articulation, between it and the astragalo-calcaneo-scaphoid. The anterior and outer extremity of this ligament divides in front into two- sets of strong fibres, one forming the outer part of the capsule of the astragalo-calcaneo-scaphoid joint, and the other the anterior part of the Fig. 189.—Dorsum of Stretched Left Foot with THE outer side DEPRESSED. A, Anterior ligament of lower tibio-fibular articulation ; b, head of astragalus crossed by c, portion of superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament; d, scaphoid ; e, internal cuneiform ; f, base of second metatarsal; g, external cuneiform ; H, I, anterior and middle bands of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; k, anterior and outer fibres of interosseous astragalo-calcaneal liga- ment. They abut against the joint in front, while the posterior and oviter fibres seen between k and h lie against the joint behind; l, cuboid surface of calcaneum laid bare by the rotation downwards of the cuboid; m, anterior part of cuboid bone, with ligaments extending to external cuneiform and fourth and fifth metatarsals. Fig. 190.—Plantar View of Stretchei> Left Foot, a, Tendo Achillis; b, groove for peroneal tendons ; c, short plantar ligament;: D, long plantar ligament; e, groove for per- oneus longus ; f, ligament from the fifth to other metatarsal bones ; g, groove for tibialis posticus ; H, I, K, the three portions of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; L, groove for the flexor longus hallucis pass- ing from astragalus to sustentaculum tali; M, scaphoid attachment of inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament; n, tuberosity of scaphoid with tendon of tibialis posticus standing out p, band from tuberosity of scaphoid to ex- ternal cuneiform ; r, internal cuneiform * s, tendon of peroneus longus. capsule of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint. The posterior and inner extremity of the interosseous ligament is continuous with strong fibres- placed horizontally between the under surface of the posterior extremity of the astragalus and the edge of the calcaneum posterior to the susten- taculum, and called the internal ligament of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint: and this again is continuous with vertical fibres constituting the posterior ligament of the same joint and strengthening its capsule; but the external part of the capsule is weak. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a strong flat ligament supporting the weight falling on the inner three toes. It is covered superiorly with