DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEEEBEO-SPINAL AXIS. 635 laterally into compartments, more or less vaguely delineated in old works, beginning with those of Malpighi. These compartments in the chick are of a very constant description (J. C, Nature, 1875), being at first distinctly five in number, with the auditory pit appearing opposite the constriction between the fourth and the fifth (Fig. 98). In the fourth day they assume the form of deep recesses, which soon after become filled up, and their future history remains to be worked out. Very soon there becomes apparent in the roof of the third vesicle a deficiency in the neural cylinders, free edges being visible along the sides. But from the foremost (proserial) extremity a backward growth sets in, with a free edge directed backwards, and this is the commencement of the cerebellum, which afterwards becomes prominent and has its dorsal substance so redundant that the free edge is turned round by it, remaining through life as the posterior velum. On opn IT ' pm til Chi. -01/ Hi ' - 3 op2 '4 op Fig. 464.—Head of Embryo Chick of Third Day. 1, 2, .3, 4, 5, Visceral lobes; i/, second and third primary cerebral • ^' vesicles ;«, auditory pit, between fourth —J } and fifth lateral compartments of third , -4- vesicle; o^ji, primary optic vesicle ; oy<2, - :^ ^ secondary optic vesicle ; oj>n, optic tract and nerve ; -pin, pineal body; th, thala- Fig. 465.—Head of Embryo Chick of mencephalon; hv, hemisphere-vesicle; Four Days. cbl^ cerebellum; other olj\ olfactory pit. letters as in last figure. each side behind the cerebellum there is a deep lateral cleft, in front of the first of the original five compartments. This is seen to advantage in the human foetus of about four months, and round its edges a membranous growth rises up, which is the commencement of the flocculus. While therefore the cerebellum is a mesial dorsal growth, the flocculus is ventro- lateral and starts from a more retroserial position. The ligula is also seen to advantage in the young foetus, and easily recognized as an imperfect dorsal wall of the low^er half of the fourth ventricle. Two antero-posterior curves are early seen in the third vesicle, namely, a ventral convexity, on the sides of which the floccular clefts and growths are placed, and a dorsal convexity corresponding in position with the point where the clavae separate and the medulla oblongata becomes open. T]ie second cerebral vesicle, or middle brain, is the source of the corpora quadrigemina and other parts around the aqueduct of Sylvius. In the embryo chick it becomes greatly distended, remaining for a considerable time the most elevated part of the brain. In the mammal it takes the form