411 THE AOETA. The pulmonary artery lies at first in front, but afterwards to the left of it, and both are enveloped in a common tubular pericardial sheath. The left auricle and the right pulmonary artery lie l)ehind it, the superior vena cava is placed to its right side, and the right auricular appendix lies in front near its commencement. It is separated from the sternum l)y the pericardium and by the right pleural sac. The branches of this portion of the aorta are the coronary arteries of the heart. The right coronary artery (Fig. 316) springs from the right sinus of A'alsalva. Emerging between the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix it passes along the auriculo-ventricular furrow until it reaches, on the posterior aspect of the heart, the posterior interventricular groove. It then divides into two, one division descending in the interventricular groove towards the apex, the other passing transversely still further onwards in the auriculo-ventricular furrow. Of the numerous branches given off previous to the division, the largest descends towards the apex along the margo acutus; others ramify upon the surface of the auricles and ventricles, and the basal portions of the great arteries. The left coronary artery springs from the left sinus of Valsalva, It passes between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendix^ and divides into two branches, one descending, the other transverse. The former passes downwards in the anterior interventricular groove towards the apex; the latter passes along the auriculo-ventricular furrow towards- the transverse branch of the right artery. Numerous branches are supplied to the surface of the ventricles and auricles and the basal portions of the great arteries; one of considerable size descends towards the apex along the margo obtusus. The transverse portion of the aorta passes backwards and to the left, and is curved with the convexity upwards. It commences opposite th& right border of the sternum at the place of attachment of the second costal cartilage, and passes at first upwards and to the left behind the lower half of the manubrium. As it crosses, it gradually recedes from the breast bone, and reaches the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, to the lower border of which it descends. It therefore forms an arch obliquely placed from right to left and from before back- wards. The upper border of the arch corresponds with the line between the upper and lower halves of the manubrium. Some fatty tissue, remains- of the thymus gland, lies in front of it, and it is overlai^ped, slightly on the right side and to a considerable extent on the left, by the- corresponding pleural sacs. Behind it lie the trachea, oesophagus, and thoracic duct. The left bronchus passes outwards beneath it. It over- hangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, with the left branch of which it is connected by the ligamentum arteriosum. The left innominate vein lies along its upper edge at its anterior part, and the left superior intercostal vein crosses it anteriorly. It is also crossed in front by the left phrenic and pneumogastric nerves and by the superficial cardiac nerves ; the