782 THE EEPEODUCTIVE ORGANS. not only with the uterus of the female but with the vagina also (Banks, 1864); and, close to the sinus pocularis but somewhat further forward, one on each side, are situated the openings of the ejaculatory ducts. A certain slight amount of erectile tissue, prolonged back in the floor of the urethra from the bulb, increases in amount in the coUiculus, and must serve when gorged to obstruct for the moment the exit from the bladder. The membranous part of the urethra is half an inch long, extending from the apex of the prostate to the entrance into the bulb, and lies between the deep and superficial layers of the subpubic fascia, surrounded by the con- strictor urethrae muscle. It is the narrowest part of the urethra, with the exception of the orifice.^ The spongy part of the urethra extends from the opening in the triangular ligament to the outlet. At its commencement in the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum it is slightly dilated and somewhat rugose longitudinally; and when the constrictor urethrae is contracted, an instrument can be pushed a little further back in the perineum than the opening in the triangular ligament, but if held gently against the easily felt opening, it will pass in of its own accord when the constrictor relaxes. At its entrance into the bulb, the urethra changes its course from a downward to a forward direction, so that a curved instrument introduced so far with the handle close to the abdomen moves away from the abdominal wall on entering the membranous part. In front of the bulb, the diameter of the urethra is very slightly diminished and continues unchanged till about half an inch from the orifice, where there is a distinct dilatation, the fossa navicularis, bounded in front by the more constricted slitlike orifice. While surrounded by the corpus spongiosum the tube has the upper and lower walls in contact; but near the outlet it is compressed from side to side by the glans, so as to present mesial contact of two lateral walls. A variable number of blind depressions called lacunae, with their mouths directed forwards and capable of intangling the point of an instrument, are found principally on the floor, near the bulb ; a large one found very frequently on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis is known iis the lacuna magna (also valvule of Guerin). The mucous membrane of the urethra presents columnar epithelium on a .smooth surface, except within the glans, where, as on the exposed part, there is a papillary surface covered with stratified squamous epithelium. The proper substance of the mucous membrane is firm, and contains a large .-amount of elastic tissue longitudinally arranged. It has a copious capillary network and venous plexus. The prostatic part of the urethra is in contact with the muscular tissue of the prostate; the membranous part has a strong ^This part of the urethra is well known to be specially liable to injury in con- sequence of falls on the pelvis, even when there is no fracture of the bones. There can be no doubt that the explanation once offered by Goodsir in answer to an inquiry by Syme, and accepted by the latter, is correct, namely, that the weight of the body pro- pelling downwards the base of the sacrum unduly wedges upwards the part nearer the ^coccyx, so as to force open the arch of the pubis and tear the structures contained in it.