550 THE NERVES. outer edge of the anterior pyramid. It is directed forwards and pierces the dura mater immediately internal to the apex of the petrous bone, after which it runs through the cavernous sinus below and by the inner side of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. It enters the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, passing between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and lying below the lower division of the third nerve. About half-way forwards in the orbit it pierces the inner surface of the external rectus. On its way it receives communicating fibres from the carotid plexus and from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. The nucleus of origin lies close to the surface of the floor of the fourth ventricle, near the middle line, and above the striae acusticae. THE SEVENTH OR FACIAL NERVE. The facial nerve (Fig. 410) takes origin from the surface of the brain in two portions: the larger portion, the portio dura, arises from the side of the medulla, between the olivary and restiform bodies, immediately below the pons; the smaller portion, the pars intermedia, takes origin immediately external to the portio dura, between it and the auditory nerve. The nucleus of origin of the portio dura lies in the reticular formation some distance below the surface of the fourth ventricle, about the level of the striae acusticae. The fibres which pass from the nucleus have a tortuous- course within the substance of the brain, before they reach the surface; they take first of all a dorsal direction, and approach the floor of the fourth ventricle; they are then continued forwards, running in the eminentia teres; finally, bending at a right angle, they arch outwards over the nucleus of the sixth nerve, and are continued downwards and outwards to the sur- face. The fibres of the pars intermedia arise from the upper end of the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus. From its superficial origin the facial nerve passes outwards to the internal auditory meatus, resting in its course upon the upper and anterior surface of the auditory nerve. At the bottom of the meatus it separates from the companion trunk and enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, within which it passes through the temporal bone. Within the aqueduct it first passes out- wards above and between the cochlea and vestibule as far as the hiatus Fallopii; it then bends sharply backwards in the substance of the inner wall of the tympanum, above the fenestra ovalis; it finally descends, with a slight arch backwards, behind the tympanic cavity to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The bend which the nerve makes above the fenestra ovalis is known as the "genu," and at its anterior border is a small reddish coloured triangular swelling, the apex of which is directed forwards, the geniculate ganglion. The pars intermedia, which from the first is closely applied to the under surface of the portio dura, partly becomes incorporated with the portio dura in the internal auditory meatus, and partly terminates in the ganglion. Below the stylo-mastoid foramen the facial nerve is directed