725 THE INTESTINE. outer half of Poupart's ligament. It is about as deep as it is broad when distended, and similar in appearance to the colon, but represents a portion of the intestine which in some animals is largely developed and quite distinct from the colon. It has coming off from it at the inner side of its lower end a prolongation, the vermiform appendage, usually about three inches in length, and sufficiently wide to admit a crow-quill easily. This appendix has considerable pathological importance, being liable to inflam- mation, and appendicitis often requiring surgical interference; and it may well be doubted if this affection is always determined by mechanical causes, when it is considered that, like the tonsils and Peyer's patches, its mucous membrane is principally devoted to closed follicles. It has also a con- siderable importance morphologically, for, present in the orang and chimpanzee, it is generally absent in monkeys and in the majority of mammals, yet is present among marsupials, the caecum and vermiform Pi Fig. 561.—Developmknt of Caecum and Vermiform Appendage. A, From embryo of eighth week ; B, from a girl three yeai-s old ; C, caecum ; Co, colon ; Gr, boundary-fold ; H. habenula caeci; /, ileum; Pr, processus vermiformis; Tx>, taenia posterior. (Toldt.) appendage of the wombat having sometimes been compared with those of man; and in certain rodents, as in the rabbit, it is of large dimensions, while in others, as the rat, it is completely absent. The caecum is completely surrounded with peritoneum, and a mesocaecum extends from below the ileo-caecal valve along the vermiform appendage. The vermiform appendage is in point of fact the true starting-point of the taeniae of the colon. The caecum and appendix have their origin so early as in the embryo of six weeks, in the form of a projection taking an upward direction, as do the caeca of monotremata, birds, reptiles and fishes in which caeca occur. The three fraena of the colon together spring from the vermiform appendix, and persist distinct for a variable number of years. The fraenum mesentericum, however, early becomes short as compared with the others, and is concerned in a folding inwards and backwards of the caecum w^hich commences in the embryo of nine weeks. The part of the