649 THE EYEBALL. and is a beaded condition of the branches of corpuscles. The laminae nearest the front are more firmly bound together by fibres which extend obliquely inwards from the surface. In front and behind, the proper substance of the cornea is bounded by elastic substance. The anterior elastic lamina (Bowman) is very thin and inseparable, but can be displayed by producing cracks in it by ■a- Fig. 4S0.—Epithelium of Human Cornea. The part to the right is in the neighbour- hood of a lesion, which has led to alteration of the tissue and wandering of corpuscles up into the epithelium. (Dr. Reid.) alternate swelling and shrivelling of the underlying substance. The posterior elastic lamina (membrane of Desceriiet or of Demours) is much thicker than the anterior and is easily separated; in the horse it can be removed complete. Portions detached curl up, with the anterior surface turned in; it is brittle and structureless. At the circumference it is continuous with the ligamentum pectinatum iridis, which can be removed with it. On its deep surface there is a single layer of squamous epithelium, separating it from the aqueous humour. The superfidal epithelium of the cornea is in apparently immediate contact with the anterior elastic lamina, and consists in the human subject of elements not very dis- similar from those of the general epidermis. The deepest cells are broad and not greatly elongated, and the strata are not very numerous. But in some animals, as the horse and the ox (Fig. 68), the deepest cells are of a highly elongated columnar form, their pointed extremities striking up between digitations of cells superficial to them ; and I was able to make out, superficial to both these strata, a stratum of proliferation (1868). The nerves of the cornea enter its substance from the sclerotic, near the front. They are branches of the ciliary nerves, over forty in number, J iiiJ Fig. 481.—Portion of Primary Nervk-Plexus of Human Cornea, highly magnified, showing ganglionic corpuscles and nuclei of nerve-fibres. (Dr. Reid.)