THE CEEEBELLUM AND ANTERIOE VELUM. 603 pair of nerves, coming up from beneath the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, decussate in the middle line, and proceed transversely outwards, adherent to its surface, to reach the crura cerebri, and turn round them. On the posterior half or more of its upper surface, it is overlaid by a series of about six simple grey laminae like those of the cerebellum and serial with them, but growing from the valve and adherent to it, termed the lingula. The cerebellum consists mainly of two lateral lobes or hemisphereSy between which there is the posterior cerebellar notch behind, and concealed in a vallecula below is a distinct mesial part, the inferior vermiform process; while superiorly there is a mesial elevation sloping gently back- wards and to the sides, in no way marked off from the lateral lobes, which has been called the superior vermiform process, and, together with the inferior vermiform process and the intervening district, has come to be termed the body of the cerebellum, in consequence of a division into a more distinct body and smaller lateral lobes being common among mammals. Nevertheless one original embryonic pouch is the source of the whole cerebellum, and this pouch does not throw out lateral offshoots but only becomes laterally expanded, the vermiform processes appearing late, and the whole human cerebellum corresponding with the undivided form of the organ found in the non-mammalian vertebrates. The vestige of this primitive pouch furnishes to the cerebellum its small amount of ventricular surface, which, together with the valve of Vieussens, forms the medullary roof of the fourth ventricle, and is placed between the peduncles of opposite sides, between that valve in front and the free margin of a delicate membrane behind, to be presently described, called the posterior medullary velum. The whole pia-matral surface is composed of grey matter, and is thrown into folia or laminae, which, when divided vertically, either in the mesial plain or in directions radiating from the peduncles, give the appearance of a branching leafy stem called arbor vitae, caused by simple laminae, grey on the surface, being separated by sulci into which the pia-mater dips, these simple laminae being grouped to form larger laminae, and these again being mostly collected into larger lobules with deep sulci or fissures between, the most important of which is the great liorizontal fissure, continued un- interruptedly round, so as to separate the upper from the under surface, and extending from one middle peduncle to the other. Lobules. On the upper surface, the foremost lobule forms part of the superior vermiform process and is continuous with the lingula in front, looking forwards and projecting over it. It is called the central lobe, and is prolonged into two alue on the anterior margins of the hemispheres. Behind it there is a large collection of laminae, consisting of a mesial monticulus divided into the culmen and the declivus, and a great quadrangular lobe on each side, correspondingly divided into anterior- and posterior lunate lobe. Behind this there are laterally the superior semilunar lobes, which are joined in the middle by a narrower part, the tuber vermis. On the under surface in each hemisphere, posteriorly, is placed the inferior semi-