THE EEPEODUCTIVE ORGANS. 794 membrane there is free supply of vessels to the papillae, and in the muscular substance there is an abundance of winding and anastomosing veins which is sometimes referred to as erectile tissue, while a plexus of larger veins is particularly rich round the lower part of the vagina and the urethra. In the fibrous tissue round the muscular wall numerous small ganglia are said to exist. As already stated (p. 97), a tract of germinal epithelium, different from the cells which bound the rest of the abdominal cavity, appears in the embryo on the surface of the Wolffian body, and it is from this that, according to the sex, the essential reproductive elements of the testicle or of the ovary are developed. In both sexes a white body covered with a thickening of this epithelium becomes apparent on the inner side of the crimson-coloured Wolffian body, mid-way between its extremities, before it has begun to dwindle or change its position, but the ovary is from the first of a distinctly longer shape than the testicle. Indeed, this difference of shape is, in man and in other mammals with short or pendulous penis, the earliest indication by which the sex can be determined, though in pigs and ruminants the production of the penis toward the umbilicus affords a more obvious distinction. The ovary has been more fully worked out in its development than the testicle. The ova destined to be discharged periodically after sexual activity has been arrived at are cells of the germinal epithelium. From an early period of foetal life certain of these cells become round, and assume all the characters of minute ova; they are carried in, partly at least, by the growth of the deep-seated connective and vascular tissue ; other smaller epithelial cells follow them, and thus elongated masses are embedded in tubules of DEVELOPMENT OF THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. Fig. G19.—Ovaries and Wolffian Bodies of Embryo Pig, f-. a, Kidney; 6, Wolffian body, and on its surface the Milllerian duct; c, ovary ; d, urinary bladder turned down ; e, rectum. Fig. 620.—Organs on Right Side of Embryo Ram. a, Kidney; b, suprarenal capsule ; c, testis ; d, Wolffian body; vas deferens ; g, coni vasculosi ; between/and g, epididymis ; i, ureter.