VISCERA. 688 The middle one is the interval between the levels of the lower ribs and the crests of the iliac bones, and its lateral parts are called the lumhar \ regions, while its mesial part is termed timbilical. The lateral parts of the zone above are called hypochondriac, and its mesial part is the epigastric region. In the inferior zone the mesial part is called hypogastric, and the lateral parts iliac. Any particular spot in the abdomen can always be explicitly registered by reference to one or more definite points in the skeleton. The peritoneum, the serous membrane lining the abdomen, is thrown into a number of complicated folds, partly owing to the number of viscera to which it is applied, and partly to the great elongation and consequent winding of the digestive tube. Those folds which unite the small intestine, colon and rectum to the parietes are termed mesentery, mesocolon and meso- rectum; those which unite other viscera with the parietes are called ligaments; and those which unite one viscus with another are called omenta. Suspensory ligament Ductus venosus Vena cava inferior Gall bladder Colic depression Fig. 522.—Liver and its Ligaments from Behind. The part which lines the anterior wall of the abdomen is thrown at the lower part, above the brim of the pelvis, into three depressions by two cords which run upwards to the umbilicus, one from either side of the urinary bladder, namely, the obliterated hypogastric arteries; and in those j instances in which the deep epigastric artery happens to lie distinctly \ external to the obliterated hypogastric artery an additional small depression \ is formed on each side between the two vessels. Oblique inguinal hernia pushes its way by deepening the depression external to the deep epigastric artery, while direct inguinal hernia passes down internal to the deep epigastric, and either internal or external to the obliterated hypogastric according as that cord corresponds with the deep epigastric artery, or is separated from it by a peritoneal depression above the umbilicus. A single