833 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. The zygomaticus major springs from the outer part of the malar bone.. Below it blends with the orbicularis, and is inserted into the skin at the- angle of the mouth. The levator anguli oris arises under cover of the elevator of the upper lip, from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla. It passes downwards to the angle of the mouth, its fibres being partly attached to the skin and partly continued into the lower part of the orbicularis. The risorius of Santorini consists of a number of thin scattered bundles- of fibres from the fascia over the parotid gland and the angle of the jaw, which reach the skin at the angle of the mouth. It is a detached upper portion of the platysma myoides. By its action it draws the angle of the mouth outwards and even a little downwards; hence it does not come into play in laughter, as its name would imply, but rather in grinning. The depressor anguli oris {triangularis menti) arises from the lower border of the inferior maxilla, between the mental foramen and the attach- ment of the masseter. Narrowing, it passes to the angle of the mouth,, its fibres being partly attached to the skin, and partly continued into the upper part of the orbicularis. The depressor labii inferioris (quadrat'us menti) arises from the lower jaw, along a line passing from below the mental foramen nearly to the symphysis. Its fibres, passing among those of the orbicularis, are inserted into the skin of the lower lip. A quantity of fatty tissue is interspersed among the fibres of the muscle. The levator menti (muscidus superbus) springing compactly from the incisor fossa of the lower jaiv, spreads downwards and forwards to be inserted into the skin of the chin, its inner fibres decussating with those of its fellow of the opposite side. The buccinator arises behind from the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and by its margins from the alveolar ridges of the maxillary bones opposite the molar teeth. Becoming narrower and thicker as it passes forwards, it reaches the angle of the mouth and is continued into the orbicularis of both lips, the central fibres decussating with one another, the marginal ones being continued onwards without decussation. It is pierced oppo- site the second molar tooth of the upper jaw by the duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's duct). The musculi incisivi, superior and inferior, are deep accessory slips of the orbicularis oris. The superior arises from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and from the nasal septum (naso-labialis), and passes out- wards to the anoie of the mouth amono; the fibres of the orbicularis. The inferior, arising from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, likewise passes outwards to the angle. The orbicularis oris appears as an elliptical muscle of a breadth nearly uniform all round, and corresponding to the depth of the free lip in the middle line. It is closely connected with the skin on the surface, and especially at the margin of the lips, but is separated from the mucous