563 THE SUPERIOR CERVICAL GANGLION. seiits four ganglia, which have become united into a single mass; it is placed in front of the transverse processes of the second and third vertebrae. Its branches are the communicating, the vascular, the ascending, the pharyngeal, and the superior cardiac. The communicating branches are numerous: one passes to each of the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves, one passes to the hypoglossal nerve, one to each of the ganglia of the vagus, and one to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. The vascular branches pass to the external carotid artery and ramify with its branches; some of them reach the thyroid body, others terminate in the intercarotid body; the sympathetic roots of the otic and submaxillary ganglia are detached from the vascular branches. The ascending branch accompanies the internal carotid artery; it enters the carotid canal, and divides into an external and an internal branch. The external branch breaks up within the canal and on the outer side of the artery, into numerous subdivisions, which, interlacing and com- municating with one another, form the carotid plexus. From the carotid plexus a number of communicating branches are given off: (a) one or two tympanic branches pierce the wall of the canal and pass between the carotid plexus and the tympanic plexus; one of these, generally regarded as passing from the tympanic plexus to the carotid plexus and the great deep petrosal nerve, is named the small deep petrosal nerve (p. 554); (b) the great deep petrosal crosses the foramen lacerum medium and joins the great superficial petrosal of the facial to form the Vidian nerve; (c) a branch joins the sixth nerve; and (d) a branch joins the Gasserian ganglion. The internal branch breaks up into the cavernous plexus, which lies on the under surface of the artery as it is passing forwards through the cavernous sinus; from, the plexus (a) vascular branches accompany the branches of the internal carotid artery; {b) communicating branches join the third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth ; (c) the sympathetic root of the lenticular ganglion passes into the orbit either separately or in conjunction with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth; and (d) small filaments pass to the pituitary body. The pharyngecd branches of the superior ganglion are two or three in number; they join with the pharyngeal branches of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves to form the pharyngeal plexus (p. 554). The superior cardiac branch descends by the side of the main trunk and communicates with the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and with the other cervical cardiac nerves; on the right side it passes in front of or behind the subclavian artery and joins the deep cardiac plexus; on the left it crosses in front of the aortic arch, and terminates in the superficial cardiac plexus. The middle cervical ganglion is much smaller than the superior, and is sometimes absent altogether; it is probably formed from two originally separate ganglia. It is placed opposite the sixth cervical