488 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. portion to the left. Later, the curve is increased to a loop with the venous end dorsal to the arterial bulb, while the whole loop, projecting at the apex, is devoted to the ventricular part. By the subsequent changes the cavity of the heart is divided into right and left portions, and the orifices become guarded by valves. Although in passing from the lower to the higher forms of vertebrate life it is the auricular jiortion which is first subdivided, yet in the course of the develop- ment of the mammalian heart it is the ventricular septum which first makes its appearance. The ventricular septum commences at the apex and extends both towards the auricle and the arterial bulb; afterwards it becomes continuous with the septa which divide the bulb and the auricle into right and left portions; but the junction does not take place at once, and for some time during foetal life, and occasionally as an abnormality in the adult, there is left a passage over the border of the ventricular septum from one side of the heart to the other. The walls of the ventricle early become muscular, and the cavity is at first comparatively small, being encroached upon by projecting muscular bands which have a reticulated arrangement, a condition which continues to a much greater extent through life in forms lower than birds. The sinus venosus receives, in addition to the vitelline veins, the umbilical veins and the right and left ducts of Cuvier; and a little later the inferior vena cava joins the common orifice of the vitelline and umbilical veins. The opening of the sinus becomes shifted to the right portion of the common cavity, and is narrowed to a slit-like aperture guarded by prominent valvular folds. Eventually the sinus itself becomes absorbed into the right auricle, its anterior limit in the adult being marked by the sulcus terminalis of His. The right valvular fold of its orifice becomes the Eustachian valve at the opening of the inferior vena cava; the right duct of Cuvier persists as the superior cava, while the left undergoes atrophj^, the portion of the sinus venosus into which it opened forming the coronary sinus. The common auriculo-ventricular aperture, at first transversely elongated, becomes divided into two by endocardial thickenings which, projecting from its anterior and posterior lips, eventually join one another, and fuse likewise with the ventricular septum. The connective tissue of these thickenings forms the greater part of the membranous portion of the ventricular septum. From these thickenings the septal valves of the orifices are also formed. The lateral valves take origin by a slight folding in of the wall of the heart in the region between auricles and ventricles, and are at first largely formed of muscular tissue, which, however, afterwards almost entirely disappears. The exact method of the development of the auricular septum is still a subject of controversy. It grows from the upper part of the cavity, and descends to the left of the venous openings to become connected with the endocardial thickenings which subdivide the auriculo-ventricular orifice, and through them with