THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 562 beat, and contraction of the bloodvessels. Another set of fibres, which are termed vaso-inhibitonj, are distributed to the heart and vessels; the inhibitory fibres for the heart, however, run in the vagus nerve ; and those for some of the vessels of the head, e.g. those of the salivary glands, are found in certain of the cranial nerves ; the nervi erigentes, the stimulation of which dilates the vessels of the genital organs, are j known to arise from the second and third sacral nerves, and to join the pelvic plexuses of the sympathetic; the course of the inhibitory • fibres for the other vessels is not known. To the muscular layers of the viscera there pass fibres, stimulation of which induces con- traction, they may be called viscero-motor ; the viscero-motor fibres, for nearly the whole length of the alimentary canal, run in the vagus and its associated nerves, but those for the pelvic portion of the '[ tube and the other pelvic viscera probably run partly in the splanchnic trunks, and partly along with the nervi erigentes from the sacral nerves , to the pelvic plexus. Most physiologists agree that there are also viscero- inhihUory fibres, stimulation of which inhibits the contraction of the muscular tissue of the viscera; the course of these fibres is not known, but it is probable that those for the abdominal portion of the alimentary canal run in the splanchnic nerves. Glandular fibres pass : from the sympathetic to the salivary and sweat glands, and possibly to other glandular organs. Those for the salivary glands ascend in the ' cervical sympathetic and pass out from the superior cervical ganglion; they carry impulses which affect the processes which take place in the glands. The fibres for the sweat glands probably pass through the grey rami, and are distributed with the nerves which run in the body wall; their stimulation produces an increase in the secretion of sweat. Filo-motor fibres pass to the muscles of the hair follicles; their course is probably similar to that of the fibres for the sweat glands. Dilator fibres for the pupil ascend in the cervical sympathetic and the ; cavernous plexus to the ciliary ganglion. The afferent fibres of the sym- ; pathetic probably come chiefly from the abdominal and pelvic viscera through the splanchnic nerves. I The Cervical Portion of the Gangliated Cord. 1 The cervical portion of the sympathetic cord (Fig. 412) lies upon the : rectus capitis anticus major and longus colli muscles, in front of the trans- ' verse processes of the vertebrae, and on the deep surface of the carotid ,| sheath. At the root of the neck, on the right side, it descends behind the ■ subclavian artery, but one or two offsets (ansa Vieussenii) usually cross ^; in front of the vessel to rejoin the main stem below it. It presents i three ganglia. The superior cervical ganglion, the largest of the series, is somewhat * spindle-shaped, measures about an inch in length, and probably repre- k