THE MUSCLES. 872 muscle as far as the margins of the costal slips of the latissimus dorsi. The first slightly overlaps the second, the third is considerably overlapped by the second, and in many cases the last is almost completely concealed by the third. The two posterior serrati muscles are supplied by intercostal nerves. Actions of the muscles of the thorax. Air is drawn into the lungs by the enlargement of the cavity of the thorax consequent upon the action of the muscles attached to and forming its walls. The enlargement is pro- duced by the descent of the diaphragm and b}' the movements of the costal arches. The movements of the ribs have already been described (p. 128). The central portion of the tendon of the diaphragm is attached to the pericardium, and, undergoing little or no alteration in position, leaves the heart undisturbed ; but the muscular fibres are straightened by contraction, and their peripheral parts are thereby separated from the thoracic wall. In this way the costo-phrenic space is opened up, and into it the bases of the lungs are drawn, while the abdominal viscera are displaced down- wards. The serratus posticus inferior draws backwards the four lower ribs, and, along with other muscles, affords resistance to the costal portion of the diaphragm, and thus enables it in contracting to concentrate its action upon the thoracic floor. The serrafus posticus superior and the levatores costarum elevate the ribs and take part in inspiration. The triangularis sterni depresses the ribs and takes part in forced expiration. The action of the intercostal muscles has been the subject of much controversy'. According to Haller the external and internal muscles have a common action. It is nevertheless geometrically true that if two rods, maintained parallel to one another, are attached at one end to a vertical bar (representing the vertebral column), so as to be capable of upward and downward movement, and if points be marked on each to represent the attachments of the fibres of the external and internal intercostals, the fibres of the external muscles will be seen to be shortened hy the elevation and those of the internal by the depression of the rods. This is the foundation of the view originated by Bamberger, that the external inter - costals are muscles of inspiration and the internal muscles of expiration. Hutchinson {Cijclopaedia of Anatomy and PJu/sioIogi/, 1852) pointed out, that in as far as the region of the costal cartilages is concerned, the sternum must be considered the upright bar on which the movement takes place. He regarded therefore the anterior portions of the internal intercostals as elevators of the ribs, and inspiratory in function, and in this saw an explanation of the absence of the external intercostal muscles in front, and of the internal muscles posteriorly, muscular effort being speciall}' required in inspiration. The geometrical arguments of Hamberger and Hutchinson necessitate the supposition that the successive ribs remain parallel to one another in all phases of movements, but in the dead body it may be seen that two contiguous ribs may be forced apart or drawn together without the simultaneous elevation or depression of both.