THE TARSUS. 179 / Fig. 174.—Right Astragalus from above. c!, b, c, Central, internal and fibular divisions of superior articular surface; d, angular facet whicli fits in between tibia and filuila in ex- tension of the ankle-joint; e, groove for flexor Lmgns hallucis ; f. surface of liead for articulation with the scaphoid. •narrowing to a point behind, and articulating with the internal malleolus. The portion looking outwards for articulation with the fibula is much larger, nearly quadrant-shaped, with the centre of the quadrant everted and pointing downwards and forwards. The surface for the posterior astragalo-calcaneal articulation, behind the groove for the interosseous ligament, has its longer diameter concave and 'directed forwards and outwards from the hinder extremity of the bone, to end in front external to the neck, w^hile its shorter diameter, at right angles to the longer, is flat. The articular surface of the head is clothed with a continuous sheet of articular cartilage, but presents as many as four facets. The largest of these, occupying more than half of the entire surface, looks forwards and fits into the concavity of the scaphoid bone. Beneath this, and separated from it by a distinct prominent line, there is placed externally a small facet which articulates with a surface on the inner third of the foremost part of the cal- caneum, and internally a larger facet which lies in contact with the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, while, behind this, between it and the groove for the interosseous ligament, there is another facet for articulation with the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum. The posterior extremity of the astragalus is non-articular and marked by a groove directed downwards and inwards, in which lies the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis muscle. At the outer margin of this groove there is a special prominence, the posterior tubercle, giving attachment to the posterior band of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, and occasionally presenting a separate ossicle {os trigonurn). The calcaneum or os calcis is an elongated block directed forwards, •outwards and upwards, supporting the astragalus, and articulating in front with the cuboid bone. The surface for the cuboid is deepest externally, and in its internal lialf is deeply concave from above downwards, having an overhanging upper margin. The surfaces for the astragalus are separated by a rough groove for the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. The anterior of these surfaces articulates with the head of the astragalus and consists of two parts, one situated towards the inner side of the foremost part of the upper aspect, the other on a ledge projecting inwards further back, ealled sustentaculum tali; and these two portions, always forming distinct facets, are sometimes completely separate, and always move on separate areae of the astragalus. The posterior of the two surfaces for the astragalus articulates with the body of that bone, and is convex from behind forwards