10 GENEEAL ANATOMY. It takes oxygen freely into its composition when exposed to it, and easily parts with it again. The oxygenated haemoglobin is distinguished as oxy~ haemoglobin, because the bands which it shows with the spectroscope are different from those of reduced haemoglobin. In the circulation the haemo- globin, at the same time that the oxygen is expelled from its chemical constitution, absorbs carbonic acid, holding it in solution without chemically uniting with it. To these properties of haemoglobin the red corpuscles owe their utility, and there can be little doubt that this substance exists separately in their composition. Yet the haemoglobin and stroma are undoubtedly indistinguishably united in the corpuscles as a homogeneous mass; and the extreme ease with which the corpuscles become elongated in passing through narrow channels, to recover their shape on emerging, precludes the idea that they have a separate cell-wall. Moreover, if blood drawn from the finger be heated, short of coagulation, for a moment over a flame, the red corpuscles will divide in their whole substance in such a manner that, by repeating the experiment, the same specimen may be made to show successively a large number of red corpuscles of half, or less than half, the standard diameter and numbers of small red granules, or all the discs more or less completely broken up into smaller discs or granules, evidently all of the same composition. The blood of the guinea-pig treated in the same way gives off worm-like threads; but if it be first subjected to freezing, the whole corpuscular structure runs into tetrahedral crystals. So also in the rat and squirrel, the whole corpuscular substance may be made to crystallize into hexagonal plates. These have been described as haemoglobin crystals; and crystals both of haemoglobin and of other kinds, in which the substance of the blood is more or less altered, are to be obtained with greater or less ease from the blood of different animals. But it is to be noted that in many instances, including the blood of man, the crystals do not consist of the whole substance of the red corpuscles. The white corpuscles or leucocytes of the blood are rounded bodies approaching the spherical form, and are much more irregular in size than the red corpuscles. The majority are a little larger than the red corpuscles, but some of them are smaller, while others are exceptionally large. The average size may be stated at from osVo^li to yoVo^^ of an inch, or even less. They have a more or less turbid appearance, but are cleared by the addition of water or acetic acid, and then there come distinctly into view one or more nuclei, or a multipartite nucleus, in their interior. Even outside the body they can, if proper precautions are taken, be observed to be capable of great change of shape of an amoeboid kind, flattening and sending out branches or pseudopods, and changing their position. So also in the web of the frog's foot, or in the undetached mesentery of a rabbit, the white corpuscles can be seen flattening themselves against the walls of capillary bloodvessels and gradually passing through them into the tissues around; projecting first a small portion beyond the