THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. 4G1 and will serve as a guide to the position of the vessel. When the canal has been opened the long saphenous nerve is found in front of the artery, and the femoral vein hes behind; the nerve to the vastus internus may be seen before the canal is opened. The upper part of the femoral, above the origin of the deep femoral, is unfavourable for ligature on account of the proximity of the large branches; the circula- tion through it may be controlled by pressure directed backwards. The Popliteal Artery. The popliteal artery, the continuation of the femoral trunk, extends through the lower third of the thigh and the upper sixth of the leg, from the opening in the insertion of the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It is directed at first downwards and inwards to gain, opposite the back of the knee-joint, the middle line of the popliteal space, and then descends vertically, resting first on the capsule of the joint and afterwards on the popliteus muscle. At the upper end it is covered by the semimembranosus, below it passes under cover of the gastrocnemius, and is crossed by the plantaris. The companion vein is at first external to the artery, but crosses it gradually, resting closely upon its posterior surface about the middle of the space, and gains its inner side below; the short saphenous vein ascends superficially behind the lower part of the artery to join the popliteal vein. The internal popliteal nerve lies behind the artery and vein in the middle of the space, but below is placed b}^ their inner side. The branches of the artery are divided into two groups, muscular and articular. The muscular branches are arranged in two sets, upper and lower in position. The upper set is formed of three or four vessels, which supply the lower ends of the hamstring muscles and anastomose with the lower perforating and upper articular arteries. The lower set includes two branches, the outer and inner sural arteries, which supply the gastrocnemius, the plantaris, and the upper part of the soleus, and detach slender twigs to descend subciitaneously upon the calf. The articular branches are five in number, the two upper encircling the bone above the joint, the two lower coursing round the bones below the joint, and the middle or azygos artery piercing the posterior ligament to enter the joint. The U2:)per articular arteries, external and internal, the external being the larger, are directed, above the heads of the gastrocnemius, and under cover of the hamstring muscles, to the front of the lower end of the femur, where they anastomose with one another, and with the upper muscular branches, the external circumflex, and the anastomotica magna from above, and with the lower articular arteries from below. The lotcer articular arteries, internal and external, the internal being the larger, are directed transversely upon the surface of the popliteus muscle, and pass