680 OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. spiralis, which separates it from the labium tympanicum or part continuous with the basilar membrane. At the inner edge of the crista Reissner's membrane is attached, which is a delicate structure consisting of a fine layer of connective tissue and a simple squamous epithelium. The basilar membrane is stronger than the membrane of Reissner, and is transversely striated, being formed of fibres passing outwards to be attached to a structure lining the wall in a considerable breadth of both scalae, and usually called the sjnral ligament, though described originally by Bowman as muscular, and admitted to be rich in spindle-shaped nucleated corpuscles. In consequence of the rapid diminution of breadth of the lamina spiralis, the basilar membrane is somewhat wider at the cupola than at the base. On the surface of the basilar membrane the epithelium of the canalis cochleae is modified to form a highly complicated structure, named from its discoverer organ of Corti. In the description of this I shall be guided to a great extent by Schwalbe. c d J g hi k e m n n o p Fig. 51G.—Organ of Corti in Vertical Section, a, Cells of ClHudius over cochlear ligament (Bowiiiaii's rnuscle); h, basilar membrane; c, outer sujiXjort-celLs (cells of Deiters) ; d, outer auditory hairs ; <. lining of scala tyrnpani; outer rods ; (j, merubrana tectoria (Corti's membrane); A, inner support-cells; (, sulcus spjiralis; labium vestibulare ; m, outer auditory cells ; n, ner\e-tibres p>assing to them ; o, inner rod ; p, simpjle eijithelium of sulcus spjiralis ; q, rnedullated nerves. (Bohm and v. Davidoff, after Retzius ) The most prominent part of the organ of Corti is a strip of uniform breadth, the papilla spiralis; and between this and the free edge of the labium vestibulare of the limbus there is a strip, likewise of uniform breadth, in which the nerves pass obliquely up and enter the canal by a range of foramina counted by Kolliker as lying on the basilar membrane, but considered by Henle and more recent observers as belonging to the limbus. The foundation of the papilla spiralis is an outer and an inner row of strap-like structures called rods of Corti, which are specially developed epithelial elements of the deepest layer, and are of such breadth that three of the inner row are rather narrower than two of the outer. These are attached by iYndkev footpjloAes to the basilar membrane, and, rising up, incline one to the other so as to include a roofed space or tunnel, and are then folded over and continued into headplates directed outwards, so that those of the inner rods bend over those of the outer rods and those of the outer rods fit into the hollow of the heads of the inner rods. On the inner or