478 THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. from the torcalar Herophili to one of the tributaries of the occipital vein. The superior longitudinal sinus communicates in many cases through the parietal foramen with the radicles of the temporal vein, and in the child through the foramen caecum with the veins of the nose. THE SPIXAL VEIXS. The spinal veins form a complicated plexus of vessels which may be subdivided into separate groups as follows, viz.. the veins of the spinal cord, the veins of the vertebral bodies, the anterior and posterior extra spinal veins, and the anterior and posterior intraspinal veins. The veins of the spinal cord ramify in the pia mater, and are disposed as anterior, lateral, and posterior longitudinal trunks, and a network of branches communicating above with the veins of the medulla. Laterally branches pass outwards on the nerve roots, and are connected with oflPsets of the intraspinal veins. The veins of the vertebral bodies (Fig. 358) are accompanied by minute arteries, and ramify in the cancellous tissue of the bones; they communi- cate in front with the an(terior extraspinal veins, and behind empty them- selves into the anterior intraspinal veins. The anterior extraspinal veins (Fig. 358), best developed in the neck, form a plexus of small branches on the anterior surface of the spinal column. They communicate below with the plexus in front of the sacrum, and laterally are connected, according to the region, with the vertebral, dorsal, or lumbar veins. The posterior extraspinal veins form a plexus which rests upon the laminae and the articular and spinous processes, and receives deep and superficial tributaries from the back. Frequently the superficial veins of the back are connected with one another by a slender median anastomosing vessel. The plexus communicates anteriorly, by branches which pierce the ligamenta subflava, with the intraspinal plexus, and laterally, according to the region, with the vertebral, dorsal, lumbar, or lateral sacral veins. The anterior intraspinal veins (Fig. 358) are two long trunks running the whole length of the canal, placed one on each side of the posterior common ligament of the bodies. Opposite the bodies of the A'ertebrae each trunk is somewhat dilated, aud communicates with its fellow by a transverse branch which crosses in front of the posterior common ligament, and receives the veins of the vertebral body. Above, they are connected with the basilar plexus of veins; lateral off'sets accompany the nerves in the intervertebral foramina. The posterior intraspinal veins, one on each side of the middle line, lie in front of the laminae, and are connected with one another by numerous transverse branches. From behind they receive the perforating branches of the posterior extraspinal plexus. Above they communicate with the occipital sinuses, and, along with the anterior intraspinal veins