40 GENERAL ANATOMY. immovable joint. Among the varieties of complete joints have been recognized qinglymus, or hinge-joint; enarthrosis, the ball and socket joint; diarthrosis trochoides, or pivot joint, and arthrodia, permitting only slight movement. Symphysis is a word formerly used as equivalent to amphiarthrosis, but survives as a term applied to two mesial structures—the symphysis pubis, which is an amphiarthrosis or in- complete joint of the movable sort, and the symphysis of the lower jaw, which is an immovable union of right and left parts, and undergoes ossification in early life. Synchondrosis, signifying union by cartilaginous substance, is a term applicable to the union between occipital and sphenoid, and equally so to the union between principal centres of ossification and their epiphyses, but has been principally applied to the sacro-iliac articulation, which is not really a synchondrosis at all, but a complete joint. Schindylesis has been used as a term to indicate the reception of an edge of bone into a cleft, the articulation of the vomer with the vaginal processes of the sphenoid being the example given; and gomphosis as a word suitable to indicate the fitting of the teeth into their sockets ; but the vomer articulates edge to edge with the vaginal processes, and the teeth, though impacted in the jaws, are no part of the skeleton. MUSCLE. Muscle is a texture consisting of fibres whose special characteristic is the property of contractility. By contractility is understood the tendency of parts to approach one another temporarily under the in- fluence of stimulation; and the exercise of this tendency, as exhibited in muscle, is always accompanied by metabolic change; that is to say, breaking down of organic compounds by oxidation, or, as it may be termed, consumption of fuel. Contractility probably exists in connection with the protoplasm of all young living corpuscles; and in connection with amoeboid movements it is exhibited in an unlimited variety of directions. But in muscular fibre the contractility, while greatly increased in amount, is confined to one direction, namely, the length of the fibre. The shortening of the fibre involves a separation of particles laterally, there being no total diminution of bulk. The return of the fibre to its original shape is efi'ected, not by contractility, but by elasticity, which involves no chemical change. Muscular fibre exhibits two great varieties distinguished by micro- scopic characters as striped and imstriped, and physiologically as voluntary and involuntary. The terms voluntary and involuntary are, however, not without objection; for in no voluntary movement do we will the con- traction of individual muscles; it is the movement to be efi'ected which is voluntary, while we remain ignorant of the muscles by which the movement is accomplished. Also, it is notable that while the contraction and dilatation of the pupil have probably the same relation to volition in birds as in mammals, in birds the muscular fibres of the iris are striped, and in mammals they are unstriped. Lastly, the pharynx and upper parts of the oesophagus, though they are removed from the control of the will, have typical striped fibres, and the heart has striped fibres