THE FIFTH, THE TRIFACIAL, OR TRIGEMINAL NERVE. 541 matter of the aqueduct. The function of the proserial root is still the subject of controversy; but while many regard it as motor, it seems most probable that it is sensory, and that the two roots are to be compared to the ascending and descending fibres of the posterior root of a spinal nerve. The trunk of the nerve passes from the side of the pons forwards and outwards, to enter an aperture in the dura mater above and immediately external to the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, where the sensory part, becoming expanded and somewhat plexiform, is continued into the ganglion. The Gasserian ganglion occupies a recess in the dura mater, and rests on a depression near the apex of the superior surface of the petrous bone. In its longest diameter, from before backwards and outwards, it measures about five-eighths of an inch. It is of a soft texture and reddish colour. Internally it is in contact with the cavernous sinus; anteriorly it rests upon the internal carotid artery, separated from the vessel by the fibrous tissue which crosses the foramen lacerum medium. From its anterior or convex border the three great divisions of the nerve are directed to the sphenoidal fissure, the foramen rotundum, and the foramen ovale. Small branches are described" as passing from it to the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and to the dura mater. The motor portion (jjortio minor) aiises a little in front of but in close proximity to the sensory portion, and passes forwards and outwards beneath it to join in its entiret}^ the inferior maxillary division. The First Division or Ophthalmic Nerve. The ophthalmic division, the smallest of the three, passes forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus towards the sphenoidal fissure, lying, in its course, below and to the outer side of the fourth nerve. It detaches a small twig to the dura mater, and is connected with the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and with the third, fourth, and sixth nerves. Before reaching the sphenoidal fissure it gives off the nasal branch, and divides into the frontal and lachrymal branches. The nasal nerve enters the orbit between the upper and lower divisions of the third nerve, and passes between the heads of the external rectus muscle. The frontal and lachrymal, keeping to the outer side of the third nerve, enter the orbit above the upper head of the external rectus muscle. The frontal nerve, the largest of the three, runs forwards above the levator palpebrae muscle, and about the middle of the orbit divides into the supraorbital and supratrochlear branches. The swpra- orbital nerve, the main continuation of the frontal, emerges along with the supraorbital artery by the supraorbital notch, detaches filaments to the skin and conjunctiva of the upper eyelid, and divides into two branches which ramify in the integument of the front of the head, the outer and larger reaching backwards beyond the vertex. The siqmi- trochlear nerve, much smaller than the supraorbital, emerges above the