THE VAGUS OE PNEUMOGASTRIC. 557- distributed to the mucous membrane from the base of the tongue and the epiglottis downwards as far as the true vocal cord, and also to that covering the back of the cricoid cartilage : on the deep surface of the ala of the thyroid cartilage it communicates with the inferior laryngeal nerve. The external branch, the external laryngeal nerve, a slender twig, descends on the deep surface of the infrahyoid muscles, and is distributed to the crico- thyroid muscle and the inferior constrictor of the pharynx; it also gives off one or two slender branches to the mucous membrane of the larynx, and it usually detaches a branch which joins one of the cardiac branches of the sympathetic. The recurrent or inferior laryngeal nerve is the chief motor nerve of the larynx, but also supplies sensory filaments to the region below the vocal cord; in addition it furnishes branches to the cervical portions of the trachea and oesophagus. The nerve of the right side arises in the lower part of the neck; it bends round and ascends behind the first part of the subclavian artery, then passes upwards and inw^ards behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries to gain the angle between the oesophagus and trachea in which it continues its ascent. It is con- nected with the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, and supplies oesophageal and tracheal branches, and gives some twigs to the inferior constrictor. It enters the larynx beneath the edge of the inferior constrictor muscle, supplies all the muscles of the larynx except the crico- thyroid, ramifies in the mucous membrane of the region below the true vocal vord, and forms a communication with the superior laryngeal nerve. The nerve of the left side arises in the thorax, arches round the aorta, and then ascends into the neck behind the subclavian artery. It gives off a cardiac branch as it is passing beneath the aorta; its subsequent course in the neck and its distribution are similar to those of the nerve of the right side. The cardiac branches are three or four in number, and are subject to considerable variation. One or two arise in the upper part of the neck from the main stem and from the external laryngeal branch; descending they join with the cardiac nerves from the cervical sympathetic. One^ arises in the lower part of the neck, and one takes origin in the thorax from the main trunk on the right side and from the recurrent nerve on the left side. They all join the deep cardiac plexus, with the exception of the lowest cervical branch of the left side, which crosses in front of the arch of the aorta to end in the superficial cardiac plexus. Two or three anterior pulmonary branches of slender size arise in the upper part of the thorax; they pass to the front of the root of the lung, and join with branches of the sympathetic nerves to form the delicate anterior puhnonarii plexus which ramifies upon the front of the root. The posterior pulmonary branches are numerous and of large size. They are given off behind the root of the lung, and, communicating with one another and with a few delicate sympathetic branches from the higher thoracic ganglia, form the ijosterior pulraonarji p^lcxus, the branches of which