140 THE SKELETON. Fig. 144.—Supracondylar Process on a left humerus. before backwards; its outer margin turns outwards behind the lower border of the radial surface, giving the additional breadth behind; and the lower part of the inner margin inclines inwards, giving the appearance to the trochlea of sloping downwards and inwards both in front and behind, though its groove is in the direction of the shaft. In front, above the capitellum, there is a depression which receives the head of the radius in flexion, and Rhove the trochlea a larger depression into which, in flexion, the coronoid process of the ulna fits; while, behind, there is above the trochlea a deep fossa which receives the olecranon in extension. At the bottom of this fossa there is sometimes a per- foration as in many other mammals; neither, how- ever, in man nor in those animals does the olecranon fit into this perforation, but it presses against a point on the strong inner wall of the fossa where usually a mark can be seen indicating the precise spot. The supracondylar process is an occasional hook- like process, not very uncommon, occurring in front of the internal supracondylar ridge, having a fibrous band extending from it to the internal epicondyle. Beneath the arch so formed the median nerve passes constantly, while the arterial relations vary (Struthers). In some animals, as the cat, a foramen occupies the same situation, and is traversed by the median nerve and brachial artery. BONES OF THE FOREARM. The forearm has two bones, the radius and ulna. The radius articulates with the humerus outside the ulna, and inferiorly is in contact with the hand over the thenar side, or side supporting the thumb, while the ulna lies over the little finger; and as, in ana- tomical description, the palm of the hand is said to be anterior, and the thumb and little finger are said to lie on the outer and inner sides, the radius is the outer bone of the forearm, the ulna the inner. The palm, however, is capable of pronation and supination, which means that it can be turned downwards or upwards by the lower end of the radius revolving in a semicircle round the ulna while the bent elbow is stationary; and the upward position of the palm in flexion of the elbow, or its anterior position when the forearm is pendent, is the extreme of supination. Semi-pronation, though not the position chosen for technical Fig. 145.—Sketch to show THE Mechanism of Prona- tion AND Supination, a, b. Olecranon and coronoid pro- cesses of the ulna; c, orbicular ligament grasping the head of the radius ; d, triangular fibro-plate permitting the lower end of the radius to move in a semicircle round the ulna.