DEVELOPMENT AND MORPHOLOGY. 399 and splanchnic layer which form the walls of a cavitj^ continuous behind with the body cavity; on the formation of the branchial arches this cavity is broken up into a number of segments, the first of which is pre- mandibular, the second occupies the mandibular, the third the hyoid arch, while the others correspond to the succeeding branchial arches. Each of the first three sections of the head cavity is formed of a dilated dorsal portion and a narrow ventral portion. The dorsal portions are regarded as corresponding to the mesoblastic somites in the trunk; from their walls the muscles of the orbit are formed. From the inner or splanchnic walls of the narrow ventral portions contained within the mandibular, hyoid, and the succeeding arches, the mandibular, hyoid, and branchial muscles are developed. Among higher forms, in reptiles and birds, traces of the formation of a head cavity and its division into successive segments have been observed. A number of segments have been counted, the dorsal portions of which, corresponding to somites, are said to be formed in order from behind forwards. The most anterior head-somite gives origin to the muscles of the orbit supplied by the third nerve; the second to the superior oblique muscle, supplied by the fourth nerve; the third to the external rectus muscle, supplied by the sixth nerve; behind this two or three somites seem to disappear entirely ; from the hinder head-somites, according to some observers, the muscles which pass from the head to the shoulder-girdle are developed. From the walls of the ventral or visceral portion of the section of the head cavity belonging to the mandibular arch there are developed the muscles of the jaws and the tensor palati, supplied by the motor branch of the fifth nerve; and from the corresponding regions of the hyoid arch there arise the stapedius and the muscles connected with the hyoid bone, supplied by the facial nerve; the superficial muscles of the face and neck supplied by the seventh nerve have probably spread from the region of the hyoid arch. In the splanchnic wall of the pharynx corresponding in position to the first branchial arch there are developed the pharyngeal muscles supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal and its associated nerves, and with these, judging from its nerve supply, the levator palati must prol)- ably be reckoned, although its position immediately behind the Eustachian tube would seem to warrant the supposition that it was developed from the hyoid arch. The intrinsic muscles of the tongue and those supplied by the true hypoglossal branches probably also spring from the splanchnic mesoblast in the neighbourhood of the ventral extremities of the anterior branchial arches.