THE MUSCLES. 328 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The superficial fascia of the head and neck presents little of import- ance. It forms a somewhat dense layer in the region of the scalp and the nape of the neck. In the lateral part of the neck the platysma myoides, a thin muscular sheet, lies in its substance. The platysma myoides is a thin subcutaneous muscular sheet extend- ing over the side and front of the neck. The fibres spring from the fascia over the clavicle and pass upwards and inwards towards the lower jaw into the fascia over which most of them are inserted, between the attach- ment of the masseter and the symphysis. A few of the most internal cross the middle line, those of the right side being generally in front. The most posterior fibres sweep over the inferior maxilla and reach the angle of the mouth, where they become blended with other muscles. The size of the muscle is very variable, and it frequently receives accessory slips which have been noted as springing in different cases from the upper costal cartilages, the thyroid cartilage, the mastoid process, and the cartilage of the ear. On the deep surface of the muscle lie the trunks of the superficial veins and nerves of the neck. It is supplied by the infra- maxillary branch of the facial nerve, which effects a junction with the superficial cervical of the cervical plexus. It raises the skin of the neck and breast, draws down the angle of the mouth, and can also depress the lower jaw; it has been conjectured that in its contraction, by drawing apart the walls of the external jugular vein, it may assist, in laboured respiration, the return of the venous blood from the head. The platsyma is the representative in man of a subcutaneous muscular sheet much more largely developed in many of the lower animals. SUPERFICLVL MUSCLES OF THE HEAD. A number of small muscles which act upon the soft parts of the face and scalp are included in this group. For convenience of description they are usually subdivided into smaller groups according to their more im- mediate action upon the scalp, ear, eyebrows and eyelids, nose, and mouth; but it will be seen that many act at the same time on more than one of the parts named. In the expression of emotions, in which these muscles play an important part, muscles which belong to the diiferent subsidiary groups are often called into action at once. For a detailed scientific examina- tion of the action of the facial muscles in this respect the student is referred to the work of Duchenne (Paris, 1862), as the subject is too large to be treated of in a manual of this scope. As to the simple action of each individual muscle it will, in the great majority of cases, be recognized as evident from the description, and need not entail a separate statement. All the muscles of this group are supplied by the seventh or facial nerve.