477 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. behind, and occasionally also below the pituitary body, which together are named the circular sinus; and a small lateral projection of each, outwards beneath the small wing of the sphenoid, is sometimes named the spheno- parietal sinus. They receive the ophthalmic veins, some lateral tributaries from the frontal lobes, the superficial Sylvian veins, and some anterior meningeal veins, and their blood passes backwards in the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses. Each cavernous sinus communicates with the pterygoid plexus of its own side through the ophthalmic vein and through the slender Vesalian vein, which passes through a small foramen in the great wing of the sphenoid. Communicating branches also pass through the foramen lacerum medium and the carotid foramen to the pharyngeal plexus and the internal jugular vein. In the outer wall of the sinus the third and fourth nerves, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve run forwards; and through the sinus, covered only by the thin lining membrane, the internal carotid artery and the sixth nerve pass. The superior petrosal sinuses (Fig. 357), narrow channels, run backwards from the posterior extremities of the cavernous sinuses to the lateral sinuses. Each sinus lies on the upper border of the petrous bone, along the attachment of the tentorium, and receives veins from the tympanum, the temporal lobe of the brain, and the cerebellum. The inferior petrosal sinuses (Fig. 357), shorter but of greater diameter than the superior, pass backwards from the extremities of the cavernous sinuses. Each runs along the posterior margin of the petrous bone, and passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen to end in the bulb of the internal jugular vein. Between the sinuses of opposite sides there stretches a plexus of intercommunicating veins which lies upon the basilar process, and is connected with the anterior intra- spinal veins; it receives the name of basilar or transverse sinus. The inferior petrosal sinus receives veins from the internal ear, the medulla and pons, and the cerebellum. The communications between the intracranial and extracranial venous channels. The cavernous sinus is placed in communication by the upper division of the ophthalmic vein with the frontal, nasal, and angular veins, and by the lower division of the ophthalmic vein, the Vesalian vein, and one or two small veins traversing the foramen ovale, with the pterygoid plexus. It is further connected with the pharyngeal plexus by branches which pass through the foramen lacerum medium, and with the internal jugular vein by a minute plexus surrounding the internal carotid artery. The lateral sinus communicates, by means of the mastoid vein, with the occipital or posterior auricular vein, and occasionally also by a vein which occupies the posterior condylar foramen it is con- nected with the vertebral veins. The basilar sinus communicates with the anterior intraspinal veins; the occipital sinus is connected with the posterior intraspinal veins, and through the anterior condylar foramen with the vertebral and extraspinal veins. Occasionally a minute vein passes