471 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. continued into tiie facial vein. The angular vein receives numerous palpebral and nasal branches, and through its larger tributaries communicates freely with the veins of the orbit, and through them with the cavernous sinus. The facial vein passes backwards and downwards over the face, holding a straight course behind the facial artery, crossing on the deep surface of the zygomatici and the platysma. It receives from the front nasal and laUal branches, and from behind palpehral, glandular, and muscular twigs, and a somewhat large branch of communication which comes forwards, upon the buccinator muscle, from the pterygoid plexus. In the neck the facial vein descends superficially over the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, crosses the external and internal carotid arteries, and falls into the internal jugular vein opposite the hyoid bone. In this part of its course it receives {a) from the front, submental and glandular branches, through which it com- municates with the anterior jugular vein; {b) on its deep surface, the inferioi' palatine vein which accompanies the ascending palatine branch of the artery ; and (c) from behind, the anterior division of the ternporo-maxillary vein, through which it is brought into communication with the external jugular vein. A communicating branch frequently passes from the lower end of the facial, along the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to the anterior jugular vein. At its lower end the facial occasionally receives the pharyn- geal, lingua], and superior thyroid veins. It sometimes falls into the external jugular and occasionally into the anterior jugular vein. The pharyngeal veins form, on the outer surface of the pharynx, a plexus which communicates above with the pterygoid plexus and, through the foramen lacerum medium, with the cavernous sinus. They open as one or two trunks into the facial or internal jugular. Subclavian Vein (Fig. 351). This trunk is the continuation of the axillary vein. It commences at the outer border of the first rib, and terminates in the innominate vein behind the sternal end of the clavicle. It is placed in front of and a little lower than the subclavian artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus muscle. The phrenic nerve, which crosses in front of the artery, passes behind the vein. Near the outer border of the sterno-mastoid it receives the external jugular vein. A couple of valves are found immediately external to the orifice of the tributary. The external jugular vein (Fig. 351) is formed immediately behind the angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior auricular vein with the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary vein. It descends, lying in the superficial fascia, under cover of the platysma, and crosses the sterno mastoid muscle, the posterior border of which it gains two or three inches above the clavicle. Close to the clavicle, a little behind the sterno-mastoid, it pierces the deep fascia and falls into the subclavian vein. Its lateral tributaries are the anterior jugular, the suprascapular, the transverse cervical, and the posterior jugular veins. It is very variable in size, and