THE Yi^SCULAR SYSTEM. 452 ovary. Besides its terminal branches to the ovary, each artery gives off twigs to the Fallopian tube and the round ligament of the uterus, and sends to the uterus a considerable branch which enters into anastomosis with the uterine artery. During pregnancy the ovarian arteries are much enlarged. THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The common iliac arteries (Fig. 336), arising at the extremity of the aorta opposite the middle of the fourth lumbar vertebra, descend with an outward inclination, forming with one another an angle, which is greater in the female than in the male. Each vessel is about two inches in length, and divides at the level of the disc between the fifth lumbar vertebra and the sacrum into the external and internal iliac arteries. The artery of the right side has the lower extremity of the vena cava in contact with it externally and posteriorly, crosses the termination of the left common iliac vein, and lies in front of its own companion vein; the artery of the left side lies in front and to the outer side of the left common iliac vein. The sympathetic nerve-cords descend behind the arteries. Each of the arteries is crossed in front by the. sympathetic branches to the hypogastric plexus and by the ureter, and, in the female, usually by the ovarian artery. The artery of the left side is crossed, in addition, by the superior haemorrhoidal artery. Both vessels are covered by peritoneum and overlaid by the intestines, the lower part of the ileum lying in front of that of the right side, the sigmoid flexure in front of that of the left. The lateral branches of the arteries are very minute; they ramify in the subperitoneal tissue, the ureter, and the psoas muscle. The Internal Iliac Artery. The internal iliac artery (Figs. 341, 342), from an inch to an inch and a half in length, descends into the pelvis from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation, and divides near the margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen into an anterior and posterior division. It lies in front of the lateral mass of the sacrum. It crosses in front of the external iliac vein, and its own companion vein lies behind and somewhat internal to it; the lumbo-sacral nerve-cord and the obturator nerve are also behind it. The ureter descends by its inner side; in front it is covered by the peritoneum. The anterior division breaks up in an irregular manner into a number of visceral and parietal branches. The visceral branches are the superior and inferior vesical, the middle haemorrhoidal, and in the female the uterine and the vaginal. The parietal branches are the obturator, sciatic, and pudic. The branches of the posterior division of the artery are the gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral.