709 THE PHARYNX. by Rivini and Bartholin before the separate ducts were discovered. The acini are mostly of the muciparous kind and large; but my sections in the human subject show patches of the serous kind, deeply stainable and small. THE PHARYNX. The pharynx is that part of the throat which lies behind the posterior nares, the fauces and the larynx. It is distinguished from the oesophagus by its proper muscular wall being deficient in front and consisting of three constrictors already described (p. 345). It is wide above, and extends from the base of the skull to the level of the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where the lower border of the inferior constrictor grasps the longitudinal muscular fibres of the oesophagus. It has seven openings, four of them above the soft palate, namely, the posterior nares and, at the sides of these, the orifices of the Eustachian tubes; while, beneath the level of the palate, it communicates with the fauces, the larynx and the oesophagus. The upper border of each superior constrictor forms a curved line, and above this the wall of the pharynx is completed by strong fibrous membrane, which is attached to the prominent margin bounding the front of the depressed line near the back of the body of the sphenoid bone and to the edge of the internal pterygoid plate and the cartilaginous wall of the Eustachian tube. In the middle line a ligamentous band of fibres descends from the tubercle underneath the basilar process of the occipital bone to the raphe between the constrictors. The mucous membrane of the pharynx, where it quits the fibrous wall to be reflected on the base of the skull, is thrown into irregular ridges and hollows, and on each side forms a blind pouch, the pharyngeal recess or fossa of Piosenmiiller, above and behind the cartilaginous wall of the Eustachian tube, so that the cartilage lies between the recess and the tube. On the back and sides of the suprapalatal part of the pharynx patches of closed follicles are seen. The epithelium above the level of the palate is ciliated columnar, as in the lower part of the nasal fossae; while below the palate it is squamous stratified, as in the fauces and oral cavity. THE OESOPHAGUS. The oesophagus or gullet, extending from the pharynx to the stomach, commences opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and of the fifth cervical vertebra, and terminates after piercing the diaphragm opposite the tenth dorsal vertebra. It is nine or ten inches long, and is the most muscular and constricted part of the alimentary tube. It is slightly narrower at its commencement and near its termination than elsewhere. Though nearly straight, it deviates slightly to the left side at its commence- ment, regaining the mesial position about the level of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and is again inclined to the left where it pierces the diaphragm.