THE MIDDLE EAR 675 [fibrous membrane. Occupying the petro-sphenoidal groove, the roof of the tube, as it passes forwards, dips downwards from the base of the skull, and in its whole course the cartilaginous inner or posterior wall lies alongside of the outer w^all of the pharynx, so as to permit of a horizontal section being made showing the recessus pharyngeus and Eustachian tube j (which are the persistent hypoblastic portions of the first and second visceral clefts of the embryo) lying one close behind the other. The tube rapidly increases in depth and ends in the pharynx by an expanded 023ening, whence the old name salpinx. The expanded opening lies above the soft palate and behind the inferior meatus of the nose.; it has a prominerit I internal or posterior margin and an angular roof, both stiffened by the I thickened and elongated edge of the cartilage, which is here from a third :| to half an inch in height. Anteriorly the opening is smoothly continuous with the inferior meatus of the nose, and inferiorly it presents a convex floor continuous with the upper surface of the velum (Fig. 471). Con- sequently, a sound or catheter curved at the end, when introduced into jj the nose with the point downwards, has only to be carried back till it ceases to be supported by the hard palate, then turned so as to direct the point outw^ards, when it will slip into the Eustachian tube, avoiding with certainty the pharyngeal recess (fossa of Eosenmiiller). The convexity of the floor of the opening is caused by the levator palati muscle, which, j arising tendinously from the process between the Eustachian orifice of the temporal bone and the carotid canal, occupies a gradually widening groove I formed by the floor of the tube all the way forwards (Fig. 277). The j tensor palati is another muscle closely connected with the tube, inasmuch as it has fibres of origin from the whole length of the edge of the cartilage in the outer wall. Also, the salpingo-pharnygeus, when present, descends I from the lower end of the edge of cartilage forming the inner lip of the { pharyngeal opening. It is certain that all three muscles are contracted in the act of swallowing, and that the levator palati by increase of thickness during contraction raises the floor of the tube, while the tensor palati and salpingo-pharyngeus pull the edges of the cartilage downwards. Thus the I shape of the tube is certainly altered in swallowing, but there is difference j of opinion as to whether the alteration has a closing or opening effect, though the anatomical facts make it evident that any dilating influence of the tensor palati is exercised on the hinder and smaller part of the tube, i while the levator closes the anterior orifice (Cleland, 1868). The lining epithelium of the mucous membrane is stratified columnar ciliated, which j indicates that in ordinary circumstances the walls are sufficiently separate to allow of ciliary currents. The Internal Ear. The internal ear or labyrinth consists of a complex cavity situated within the petrous part of the temporal bone, and of membranous structures within it. The cavitv is called the osseous, the continued structures the mem-