THE THOEAOIC NERVES. articulations of the hand. The branches which it detaches on its course are entirely muscular, and supply all the muscles, superficial and deep, of the back of the forearm, with the exception of the supinator longus, the extensor carpi radialis longior, and the anconeus. The muscles to which it is distributed are—the supinator brevis and the extensores carpi radialis brevior, digitorum communis, minimi digiti, carpi ulnaris, ossis metacarpi poUicis, primi internodii pollicis, secundi internodii pollicis, and indicis. THE THORACIC NERVES. The thoracic nerves are twelve in number. The first eleven are usually called intercostal nerves, the twelfth is named the last dorsal. They do not unite with one another to form plexuses, but course independently round the body wall and terminate as the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax and abdomen. On their way they supply the muscles, and give off lateral cutaneous branches. Each nerve is connected to a corresponding ganglion of the sympathetic chain by two branches, one of which has the character- istic appearance of a spinal nerve, the other that of a sympathetic nerve. The upper six trunks course in the wall of the thorax; the lower six, in an increasing degree in succession from above downwards, traverse the abdominal wall before terminating in their anterior cutaneous twigs. The upper six intercostal nerves. The first nerve is of large size,^ but its greater part immediately passes upwards in front of the hinder part of the first rib to join the brachial plexus; the remainder of the nerve passes onwards as an intercostal trunk. Each nerve passes behind the sympathetic chain, and in front of the external intercostal muscle, and at first, in the region where the internal intercostal muscle is deficient, lies immediately behind the pleura. Further outwards it passes between the two layers of the intercostal muscles, and occupies the subcostal groove, lying, except in the case of the first two or three, below the companion artery. More anteriorly it sinks into the substance of the internal intercostal muscle, and finally gains its deep surface, crossing in front of the triangularis sterni muscle and the internal mammary artery. The anterior cutaneous branches are of small size. They pierce the thoracic wall by the side of the sternum, and are chiefly directed outwards to supply the integument over the great pectoral muscle. That of the first nerve is frequently absent. The lateral cutaneous branches arise between the intercostal muscles, and run forwards for a little distance with the main trunks. Passing outwards they pierce in succession the wall of the thorax along a line drawn vertically downwards immediately behind the anterior wall of the axilla, and reach the surface between the digitations of the serratus magnus. The first nerve usually gives off no lateral branch. The lateral branch of the second nerve is known as the intercosto-hurneral nerve (Fig. 380); it is of large size, is directed outwards and backwards through the axilla, where it forms communications with the nerve of Wrisberg, and is distributed to the