791 THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OF THE FEMALE. are of a firm fibrous texture, but contain a number of minute arteries which may give serious trouble wlien divided during life. Though hairless, j they have numerous branched sebaceous glands opening on both their inner and outer surface. Occasionally the nymphae are considerably longer than usual; and in Hottentot women they form an " apron " which may descend i for several inches. The vestibule is the space bounded superficially by the nymphae and deeply by the position of the hymen. Anteriorly it presents a smooth depression bounded by the glans clitoridis in front and by the rough sur- face within the vagina behind. It is covered with stratified squamous epithelium. In the deepest part of this depression just in front of the vaginal orifice is the meatus urinarim which, from its position, can always be quite easily detected with the finger, without the aid of vision, as a pit. Acinated mucous glands open on the surface of the vestibule. The hymen is a membrane which, in the virgin, is stretched more or less completely across the entrance to the vagina. Its typical and proper form is best understood by examining it in the foetal condition. It is I developed as a funnel-like fold of mucous membrane, prolonging the vagina I downwards behind, but absent in front so as to place the opening of the vagina immediately behind the meatus urinarius. As growth proceeds, the ; opening does not develop at the rate of the parts around, and the hymen I comes thus to form a septum across the entrance into the vagina. While the normal position of the opening is undoubtedly in front, cases occur both of imperforate hymen and, more frequently, of irregular apertures, very probably the result of a prior imperforate condition. Little papiilarj- prominences left at the line'of attachment of the hymen after its destruc- tion are called carunculae myrtiformes. j The female urethra, opening into the vestibule, as already described, is an inch and a half long, wider than in the male, and lies parallel and close to the vaginal wall, so that when the meatus has been found with the tip of the finger, an instrument slips in easily if the finger be slid slightly into the vagina and the instrument pointed in the same direction. The muscular wall is strong, its innermost fibres longitudinal, the others circular, the outermost layers containing striped fibres. The mucous mem- brane is thrown into longitudinal folds which in the lower half are unobliterable, and have between them little crypts looking downwards; and some of the lowest of these are prolonged upwards and branched (as figured first by De Graaf), and are lined with cylindrical epithelium. The urethra itself is lined in its upper part with epithelium like that of the bladder, and its lower half like that of the vestibule. In its u})per half tubular mucous glands are found. The clitoris consists of two corpora cavernosa, like those of the male, but smaller, surmounted by a rudimentary glans. The corpora cavernosa spring each from a crus attached to the arch of the pubis and covered by an erector clitoridis muscle. They join to form a hody an incli and a