ARTICULATIONS. 39 project, and comparable with the villi of a synovial membrane. The pulp of the intervertebral discs exhibits in a stroma of connective tissue incap- suled corpuscles, single, and in groups, identical with cartilage-corpuscles, and is therefore one of the structures long- described under the name of fibro-cartilage, but it is a structure sui generis, with affinities to synovial villi as close as to cartilage. It presents sometimes corpuscles with, laminated capsules. Movements of joints. In speaking of movements of joints it is necessary to distin- guish between movements of the articular surfaces and the direction of the movement fig. 35.—lumbab intervertebral Disc, horizontal section, showing the given to the part of the body to which the grapelike processes of the pulp and . . r- 1 T tlie laminae of fibres around it. moving articular suriace belongs. The movements of articular surfaces are of two kinds, gliding and rolling; and these are very generally combined. Gliding is the shifting movement of one surface on another with friction. Boiling is the movement by means of which successive portions of surfaces are removed from contact, while others in front of them come into contact, without friction, as the parts of a carriage-wheel successively touch the ground. For a purely gliding movement surfaces must be perfectly conformable and of uniform curve; but in many instances opposed articular surfaces are not con- formable, they cannot be brought into perfect contact throughout, and they are often facetted. In these circumstances, there is an element of rolling or coaptation in the movement; the opposed surfaces approaching in certain parts, and receding in others, so as to leave a slight gap into which Haversian glands are pressed. The directions of movement of which a joint may be the centre are of three principal kinds—angular movement, rotation, and circumduction. Angular or hinge movement is movement in one plane, and may consist of bending, straightening, and bending in the reverse direction, technically termed flexion, extension and over-extension; or of movement toward and away from the middle line, adduction and abduction. Flotation is revolution round the long axis of the part moved, and circumductio7i is conical movement, in which the distal end of the part set in motion circumscribes an area. It is further to be noticed that there are joints allowing of but slight motion, which may be useful, not on account of the unimportant difference of position of parts which is allowed, but by giving elasticity, through causing weight to be borne by tense ligaments instead 'of being conducted through solid bone. This is the principal use of the carpo-metacarpal and tarso-metatarsal articulations. Nomenclature. The following terms, long applied to joints, though some of them falling into deserved desuetude, require explanation. Diarthrosis means a complete joint, mnjjhiaj^throsi'i a movable incomplete joint, and synartlirosis an