THE GANGLIATED COED. 565 The Lumbar Portion of the Gangliated Cord. The lumbar portion (Fig. 41-t) descends upon the surface of the cohimu by the inner margin of the psoas muscle. It crosses anteriorly the lumbar vessels, and on the right side lies behind the vena cava inferior. It presents four or five ganglia. Communicating branches pass from the ganglia to the anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves ; they are longer than the corresponding l)ranches in the dorsal region, and are less regular in their arrangement. A few branches, very irregular as to number and place of origin, pass to the aortic and hypogastric plexuses. The Sacral Portion of the Gangliated Cord. This portion (Fig. 414) descends in front of the sacrum by the inner margins of the anterior foramina; it presents usually four small ganglia, and the cords of the opposite sides terminate in a median ganglion imjMv, which lies upon the last piece of the sacrum or on the coccyx. Irregular com- rnunicaiing branches pass to the anterior divisions of the sacral nerves. A few small twigs reach the pelvic plexus, and from the ganglion impar branches proceed to the coccygeal gland. The Cardiac Plexus. The cardiac plexus lies below and behind the arch of the aorta. It is formed by the interlacement of the cardiac branches of the vagus and sympathetic nerves. From the trunk of the vagus on each side three cardiac branches are given off in the neck; and a cardiac branch is detached in the thorax usually from the main trunk upon the right side and from the recurrent laryngeal nerve upon the left. The cervical sympathetic cord on each side gives off three cardiac nerves. The various branches, however, are subject to considerable irregularity. The plexus is usually described as being formed of two portions—the superficial and the deep—which are, however, continuous with one another. The superfiriul cardiac jdexiis lies below the arch of the aorta, immediately to the right side of the ductus arteriosus. It receives the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic cord of the left side, and the lowest cervical branch of the pneumogastric of the same side, and at the point of junction of the nerves a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg, is frecjuently found. The plexus gives off some slender branches to the left anterior pulmonary plexus, and is continued into the right coronary plexus. The deep cardiac plexus lies in front of the trachea, and behind the arch of the aorta. It receives all the cardiac branches already enumerated, with the exception of the two which pass to the superficial plexus. It gives branches to both anterior pulmonary plexuses, and to the right coronary plexus, and is continued inferiorly into the left coronary plexus. The