THE THYMUS AND THE THYROID BODY. 757 lobes are covered by the sterno hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and reach up on the lower part of the sides of the thyroid cartilage and as low- as the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea. The isthmus conceals the third tracheal ring completely, and more or less the second and fourth; and from it there sometimes ascends a pyramidal process or middle lobe, which may have muscular fibres descending to it, constituting a levator muscle. The thyroid body consists of multitudes of closed vesicles varying mostly from the sixtieth to the thirtieth of an inch in size, filled with glairy fluid, lined with a single layer of cubical epithelial cells, and surrounded with a distinct single layer of capillary bloodvessels. These vesicles are embedded in firm tissue, in which the vessels ramify. The arteries are the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the occasional lowest thyroid (ima thyroidea). The veins are the superior, middle and inferior thyroid. Of nerves to the proper structure of the thyroid body and thymus nothing is known. A B Fig. 592.—Texture ob- Thyroid Body. A, The vesicles lined with epithelium. B, Injection of capillaries showing a network round each vesicle. Development of thymus and thyroid body. It will be observed from the statement made at p. 99 that those structures are closely related, in respect that they originate as glandular pouches from the visceral clefts, the thymus from the third clefts, the right and left lobes of the thyroid from the fourth clefts, and the mesial part of the thyroid from the ductus thyreo- glossus in the mesial plane opposite the third cleft. The close relation of both thyroid body and thymus to secreting glands is thus obvious; and in the thyroid body it would appear that the epithelial lining survives; while in the thymus it has disappeared altogether, and the structure which becomes developed corresponds with the retiform surroundings of the secreting pouches of an ordinary gland. In the foetus there are con- stantly found prolongations of both right and left parts of the thymus high up on the trachea, and it is probably from these that small bodies are derived described as parathyroids, an outer and an inner on each side, in contact with the lobes of the thyroid body.