87 EMBRYOLOGY. seen in the invertebrate form Sagitta than with what is found in the vertebrata, but deserving attention from the manifest affinity of Amphioxus to vertebrata, and because it throws light on vertebrate development. The corpuscles of the blastodermic membrane are arranged one cell deep in a complete sphere. One half of the sphere becomes invaginated within the other so as to produce the cuplike form known to naturalists as the gastrula, the inclosing half constituting the epihlast or ectoderm; and the invaginated part the hjpohlast or entoderm. The mouth of the gastrula becomes contracted into a small aperture, the blastopore. The spinal cord is formed from before backwards out of a portion of the ectoderm, which is folded into a groove and then into a cylindrical canal with the blasto- pore situated at its posterior end, so as to make a continuous passage from the central canal of the spinal cord to the cavity of the gastrula, the neurenteric canal, destined to be subsequently obliterated. The entoderm becomes divided into four parts, viz. : (1) beneath the spinal cord, a dorsal strip which is converted into the notochord ; (2) the digestive tube running down the middle; and (3 and 4) two lateral pouches given oft' at the fore part or blind end of the elongated gastrula, and expanding as they pass backwards, so that they come together on the dorsal and ventral aspect of the digestive tube. Each of these lateral pouches becomes shut off' from the digestive tube and is flattened out so as to present tw^o layers, a visceral and a parietal, and also is divided into a dorsal and ventral portion, the dorsal part being broken up from before backwards into a series of segments, the mesoblastic somites, while the ventral part unites with its fellow and bounds the coelom or body-cavity. Thus, the whole mass resulting from cleavage is engaged, in AmjDhioxus, in the formation of the embryo. All other Vertebrata differ from Amphioxus, in respect that at no time does the blastoderm present the simple gastrular form. But in all of them, the blastoderm passes into a bilaminar condition, comparable wdth that produced by invagination in Amphioxus; and in all a blastopore can be made out, whose correspondence with that of Amphioxus is evidenced by its being situate behind the subsequently appearing medidlanj groove or first indication of the cerebro-spinal axis, in such a position that, even in mammals, the representative of a neurenteric canal has been traced. In the bird's egg, before hatching, the cicatricula exhibits a clear part, urea pellucida, which presents an ectoderm of vertically elongated and an entoderm of flattened corpuscles, and is bounded peripherally by a thickened germinal ivall or area opaca. Already also, there is to be seen, at the margin toward which the caudal end of the embryo is to be directed, a cresentic thickening, the siclde, from the front of which, when hatching commences, a knob projects, with a groove appearing behind it. In a few hours there is formed from the knob a longer thickening, the primitire streak, with a depression, the primitive groove, running down the middle. Subsequently the medidlary folds, joined