600 THE BRAIN. in more flattened form, to be still more flattened in the crusta or inferior part of the crura cerebri. Followed downwards, the internal half of their fibres divide into several strands, which decussate with their fellows of the opposite side; while, at the same time, they become deep, and are continued into the lateral columns of the spinal cord. The outer fibres are thus approached to the anterior longitudinal fissure, and extend down on its sides as the direct pyramidal tracts {columns of TiircJc). A distinct strand from the anterior column of the cord, outside these latter, passing obliquely backwards and upwards over the lower part of the olivary body to join the restiform body, constitutes the arciform fibres of Solly. The remaining fibres of the anterior column of the cord and the anterior half of the superficial fibres of the lateral column pass up into the olivary body, the reticular formation and a band called the posterior longitudinal bundle; while the remainder of the lateral column of the cord—namely, the direct cerebellar tract— joins with the cuneate fasciculus or tract of Burdach to form the resti- form body. The tract of Goll is continued into the funiculus gracilis or clava. The fibres, however, of the clava do not enter the cerebellum, but would appear to end in the nucleus gracilis; and probably those of the cuneate fasciculus end mostly in the nucleus cuneatus. Among the longitudinal fibres passing up through the deep part of the pons may be mentioned the posterior longitudinal bundles and the fillets. The posterior longitudinal bundle lies side by side with its fellow, only some fibres from the raphe intervening beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle. The fillet {lemniscus)^ already alluded to, passes upwards and outwards, and divides into two parts, mesial and lateral, one for the corpora quadri- gemina, and the other to join the crusta. The floor of the fourth ventricle and the roots of nerves connected with it. The floor of the fourth ventricle is a lozenge-shaped surface of grey matter flooring a space communicating with the third, and through it with the lateral ventricles, and lined, as are also these others, with ciliated epithelium, which is not, however, columnar like that of the central canal of the cord, but more or less flattened. The inferior angle is at the termination of the central canal, between the clavae; the superior angle, situate behind the corpora quadrigemina, opens into the aqueduct of Sylvius; and the lateral angles are formed hj Sija.teral recess at each side, continued into the peduncle of the flocculus, in the angle between the restiform body and the cerebellum, so that the lower half of the lozenge belongs to the medulla oblongata and the upper half to the pons. From the lateral recess there extend directly inwards two small bundles of white lines—striae acusticae; and below this level, on each side, there is a depression, inferior fovea, bifurcating downwards; while above it there is a superior fovea. The part internal to the inferior fovea contains the upper part of the nucleus of cells from which springs the hypoglossal nerve, and whence its fibres strike forwards between