3 INTEODUCTION. Experiment on animals has a certain value as an auxiliary in advancing the anatomical knowledge of the nervous centres, but while its physiological results are all-important, the purely anatomical deductions drawn from the pursuit of this method are necessarily open to question. Descriptive terms. In describing the forms and relative positions of structures there are certain terms required which, however simple in them- selves, have yet a certain conventional use to which it may be convenient to direct the student's attention at the outset. The words anterior, • j>osterior, superior and inferior are used in human anatomy in reference to the body in the erect posture. This is rather unfortunate, seeing that the same words applied to the lower animals are used in reference to their ordinary positions, and become quite ambiguous in descriptions which refer indifferently to both the lower animals and man, such as occur in embryology as well as comparative anatomy. In such circumstances it is advisable to avoid the words in question altogether. The words dorsal and ventral can always be used to express the directions which are in the human subject anterior and posterior, and while no convenient words have hitherto been found as substitutes for what in human anatomy is ex- pressed by superior and inferior, proserial and retroserial may be suggested as self-explaining terms completely fitted to supply the want. The mesial plane is that in which the right and left half of the body meet; and any line which lies in that plane is the middle line of the surface spoken of. The words external and internal are held to refer technically to greater or less distance from the mesial plane, while the words deep, subjacent, and superficial express greater or less distance from the surface. But external and internal were often used to signify superficial and deep before the modern convention had been arrived at, and relics of former usage survive in the particular names given to certain structures, as, for example, the expressions external and internal abdominal rings, which would be much better spoken of as superficial and deep rings, particularly as it happens that the ring called external is in a position nearer the middle line than that known as the internal. The word sagittal, introduced by some German writers instead of dorso-ventral, and the word frontal or coroncd, to express a transverse longitudinal plane, have come much into use. Generally, it may be laid down that no terms should be used which admit of ambiguity. With regard to the naming of individual structures, it may be noted that more than one attempt has been made to impose uniformity of nomen- clature by the arbitrary authority of an individual or a committee. It may be doubted if any such attempt can possibly be successful.^ But, supplemental volume of the Archiv far Anatomie und Enticickelungsgeschichte, 1895, is devoted to " Nomina Anatomica, Verzeichniss der von der anatomischen Gesellschaft auf ihrer ix. Versammlung in Basel angenommenen Namen. Eingeleitet und im Einverstandniss mit dem Redactionsausschuss erlautert von Wilhelm His." This work is most important for consultation ; but the adoption of its recommend- ations in this countr}' would, in a large number of instances, involve the abandon- ment of good names in general use for others whose advantages are not obvious.