THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 696 consists of hexagonal prisms about y^^^ ^-th of an inch in diameter, extending vertically from the dentine to the surface, and packed closely together, for the most part parallel, but sometimes exhibiting groups irregularly crossing one another as if crushed down to a slight extent by vertical pressure. They can be isolated to some extent by the action of hydrochloric acid, when they can be seen more distinctly than in continuous sections to have a regular transverse striation, due neither to varicosity nor pigment. Superficially the enamel is overlaid by a continuous structureless layer, separable by the action of hydrochloric acid, Nasmyth's membrane^ which at the base of the crown ends in the crusta petrosa. The inner ends of the enamel-prisms impress the surface of the dentine, and their outer ends can sometimes be seen forming a hexagonal pattern when examined with a high power. But with a simple lens there can always be detected on the surface of uninjured per- manent teeth another pattern, which has apparently escaped notice, namely, a fine ripple-mark of horizontal lines, interesting in connection with the exaggerated and irregular ridges which occur pathologically. The milk teeth have no such lines on their enamel, but may present minute and shallow pits. Coloured bands often occur in the enamel, crossing the prisms in such a direc- tion as to cause lines seen in longitudinal sections to extend upwards and outwards from the dentinal to the free surface. Crusta petrosa or cement is much less regular, both in disposition and structure, in the human subject, than dentine and enamel. To understand it properly it should be looked at in teeth such as those of the horse, with deep recesses on the crown, when it will be seen to fill up the recesses lying superficial to the enamel, and to coat the fangs with regularly disposed laminae of osseous tissue. It is softer than dentine. In the human subject it occurs only on the root, and is found most abundantly at the tips of fangs, between the fangs of molars, and on the grooves of double fangs. Where thickly deposited, it has lacunae and canaliculi irregularly scattered, and usually ragged and irregular in form. It frequently shows lamination, and in portions exhibits minute spaces like the smallest of those in the granular layer of dentine; also lines may be seen at right angles to the dentine and the lamination. It is most abundant in old teeth. The permanent teeth. The incisors have chisel-shaped crowns and single- fanged roots. The summit of the crown when unworn is undulated, showing three slight elevations separated by depressions which are prolonged down on the superficial aspect; on the lingual aspect it presents a slight depres- FiG. 528.—Section through Enamel OF Elderly Subject, a, Enamel prisms; h, their free extremities in perspective ; c, dentine, with some of its tubes prolonged into spaces between the enamel prisms.