GENERAL ANATOMY. 66 bloodvessels, and the superficial arranged on the surface of the body in long independent courses. With the exception of the main vessel, the thoracic duct, which is the size of a crowquill, they are, all of them, thin, white, or transparent threads. Thus the lacteals in the mesentery are with difficulty seen against the light when empty, till a dissection is made and then by the collapse of their walls they show as whitish threads, like the lymphatics elsewhere when dissected out. Lymphatic trunks are supplied with bloodvessels which take a longitudinal course in their coats. Besides the networks of capillary lymphatics, lijmjjh spaces lined with endothelium are found in various situations, for example, surrounding the funiculi of nerves and on the surfaces of tendons. In the frog there are undoubted perivascular spaces of this sort round the mesenteric vessels, and in the human subject there seems reason to believe that similar spaces surround vessels in the substance of the brain. The most remarkable connection of the lymphatic system with spaces is the opening of lymphatic vessels into serous membranes. This is found, in the case of the peritoneum, on the under surface of the diaphragm, and in the case of the pleura, opposite the intercostal spaces. A number of endo- thelial cells of the serous membrane are arranged in a rosette around the opening of the lymphatic, and such openings are called stomata. Some anatomists still feel difficulty in determining whether the lymphatic system is completely closed in with endothelium, or is in direct continuity with the interstices of the connective tissues. The practical point is certain that lymphatics can be injected by puncturing with hollow needles, and throwing coloured fluids into the tissues; and there seems no reason to doubt that while diffusible substances pass through the walls of the capillary bloodvessels, the lymph is the accumulation of less diffusible substances remaining in the interstices of the tissues to be pressed onwards by every local pressure into the valved lymphatics. The walled lymphatics are certainly in continuity with unwalled spaces in the lymphatic glands, and there is no radical distinction between lymphatic glands and diff'use retiform tissue. Also, by injecting with the puncture- syringe, large spaces can be brought into view, surrounding the acini of racemose glands and the tubules of the testes and kidneys; from them the injection passes on into the walled lymphatics. FiG.63.—Lymphatic Gland of the groin. a, Afferent duct with concavities of valves turned toward the gland; hh, efferent ducts with the convexities of their valves toward the gland. (After Mascagni.)