596 THE BRAIN. oblique marks giving it a ropelike appearance, passes upwards and outwards to enter the cerebellum, and forms the lateral wall and great part of the posterior w^all of the medulla oblongata. Between the restiform bodies behind, lying together below, separated by the continuation of the posterior fissure of the spinal cord, are two slender columns, funiculi graciles, con- tinuous with the columns of GoU. Superiorly the restiform bodies diverge, and the funiculi graciles between them first widen out so as to continue in contact one with the other, getting the name of davae or posterior pyramids, then separate and taper each to a point still in contact with the restiform body, while between them is exposed the floor of the fourth ventricle. So far as we have gone, the surface of the medulla oblongata is of white matter, and clothed with pia mater like the spinal cord; but here the parts behind the central canal fail any longer to meet, and grey matter, continuous with that of the spinal cord, is exposed; an open furrow, calamus scriptorius, being the consequence, continuous with the inlet to the central canal, between the clavae. Rudiments, however, of a posterior wall exist: namely, the obex, a minute ridge of white matter behind the orifice of the canal, and the ligulae, two attenuated bands attached internal to the clavae, and turned over like the lapels of a coat. The part of the medulla oblongata, in which the central canal is complete, is called the closed part, while that into whose construction the floor of the fourth ventricle enters is called the opeii ptart. The groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body dies away below, but is pretty much in a line with the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, and has lying in it a row of nerve-bundles, the root of the hypioglossal nerve. A group of superficial arched fibres, emerging from the anterior fissure, slope over the pyramid and the lower part of the olivary body, and join the restiform body. The groove between the olivary body and the restiform body is further forwards than the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, and in it is another row of nerve-bundles, forming the roots of three nerves; the few uppermost gathering together to form the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, a number of succeeding bundles becoming grouped in like manner to form the vagus or pneumogastric nerve, and the remainder, more sparsely scattered, the lowermost of them ascending between the anterior and posterior roots of several of the highest spinal nerves, all gathering together to make a third trunk, the spinal accessory nerve. The pons Varolii is the structure which crosses the front and sides of the upper end of the medulla oblongata, and the name indicates a bridge extending from one half of the cerebellum to the other. But this bridge is too intimately connected with the prolongations of both white and grey matter from the medulla oblongata, and with the floor of the fourth ventricle, to be described separately from them, and thus the term pons Varolii has come to be extended to the whole depth of structure grasped on the front and sides by transverse fibres, and bounded by the fourth ventricle behind. It is broader in the human subject than in other mammals. Its lower border