128 THE SKELETON. superior articular surfaces of the axis when placed symmetrically over them; but that on the contrary a gap is left on each side, in front and behind, in consequence of the axial surfaces being each divided into an anterior and a posterior part, with a slight elevation between. If, how- ever, the atlas be rotated, the anterior facet of the axial surface of one side and the posterior facet of the other side come into perfect contact with the atlas, so that there is much greater stability than when the parts are placed symmetrically. The transverse process of the atlas is depressed on the side toward which the head is turned, and rises on the other. The atlanto-occipital articulation is principally adapted for flexion and extension, but admits of a distinct, though often overlooked, oblique rotation when the head is midway between the extremes of these posi- tions. The articular surfaces are not spherical, the occipital condyles being divided by an oblique ridge into two parts, and there cannot, therefore, be continuous conforma- bility in different positions. They are most extensively in contact in extreme over-extension, when the posterior edges of the atlantal surfaces are locked in depressions at the back of the condyles, and the posterior tubercle presses against the back of the foramen magnum, so that no rotation is possible. But when the occipital bone is flexed forwards, a gap is opened between the condyles and the backs of the atlantal surfaces, and this increases until complete flexion is reached, in which the atlas is locked against the occipital bone in front of the condyles, and rotation is again impossible. The ribs move round their heads, the interarticular ligament, where present, being the centre of the movement. The plane of movement is determined by the plane of contact of the tubercle with the transverse process, which from the fourth rib downwards is oblique and compels the rib to glide backwards when pulled upwards, and forwards when depressed. By this means the shafts are thrown backwards to such an extent, when elevated, that the capacity of the chest is greatly increased in that direction in inspiration. The anterior extremities of the sternal ribs, from the second downwards, revolve round the sterno-chondral articulations, and when the muscles are removed a costal arch can be made to move upwards and downwards round its two extremities like the Fig. 135.—Articulations or Atlas, Axis and Occipital Bone from the front, placed as when the head is thrown back and twisted to the left, a, a, Occipital condyles ; b, b, inferior articular surfaces of atlas; c, anterior common ligament; d, narrow occipito-atlantal commencement of the same.