21 CAKTILAGE. every such action in the deep part of a block necessitating movements in all the parts around. Although in adult fishes, and in certain stages of the growth of human bones, cartilage occurs with the capsules uni- corpuscular and evenly disseminated, more usually the capsules, whether containing one or more corpuscles, are arranged in groups. They may be of rounded form, but are more frequently subangular, the individuals belonging to one group not being sufficiently separated to swell equally in every direction, but presenting flattened sides to the other members of the group. Another condition is common in the human foetus in parts at some distance from an ossifying surface, and likewise is found in permanent cartilages of various animals, namely, capsules linearly elongated and spindle-shaped, containing two, three, or more corpuscles, and, mixed with these, linear spindle-shaped groups of unicor- puscular capsules, the terminal members of each group having an elongated triangular form. These linear arrangements cross each other, pointing in every direction, so that together they lead by their growth to in- creased size of the block in all diameters. Cartilage is a texture devoid both of vessels and nerves. It is, however, generally surrounded by a special fibrous covering containing bloodvessels, the perichondrium. But where cartilage is continuous with bone there is no perichondrium, neither is there any on the free surfaces entering into the formation of joints. Large masses of cartilage are penetrated by canals containing bloodvessels, but the walls of the vessels have always connective tissue between them and the cartilage. The costal cartilages are remarkable for the large size of their cor- puscles and oval capsules. The corpuscles in one capsule vary in number up to six, seven, or more. Both corpuscles and capsules are largest in the centre of the cartilage, while at the circumference they are not only small, but flattened in a direction parallel to the perichondrium, as if the immediate pressure of that inactive membrane interfered with their growth more than did the dense mass of matrix penetrated by nutritive currents. As age advances, the matrix of costal cartilages becomes granular from calcareous deposit, beginning mostly in the heart of the bar, while true bone is occasionally developed in the perichondrium. At a much earlier period the corpuscles are subject to degeneration, their protoplasm becoming coarsely granular and more easily stained with carmine, while dense masses form within them, not easily stained, waxy in appearance, but not afi'ected by iodine, and these, as they enlarge, become hollowed into capsules (Fig. 16).