447 THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. small twigs which supply the vertebral bodies, the pleura, the ribs, and the intercostal muscles; some of the latter enter the mammary gland and during lactation may increase to a considerable size. THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The abdominal aorta (Figs. 336, 337) descends upon the front of the column, from the opening in the diaphragm, opposite the twelfth dorsal vertebra, to the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where, a little to the left of the middle line, it terminates by dividing into the common iliac arteries. The place of division is on a level with a line drawn across the abdominal wall between the highest points of the iliac crests. The vessel is placed at first between the crura of the diaphragm, and between it and the right crus the greater azygos vein and the thoracic duct are inter- posed. The inferior vena cava lies in contact with its right side below, but higher up is separated from it by the crus. The left lumbar veins pass behind it. Its anterior surface is successively in contact with the solar plexus, the splenic vein and pancreas, the left renal vein, the third part of the duodenum, and the aortic plexuses and the peritoneum ; a number of lymphatic glands surround and overlie it. Its branches, which are numerous and large, are divided into two groups, parietal and visceral. The parietal branches are the inferior phrenic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral. The visceral branches are the coeliac axis, the superior mesenteric, the inferior mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, and the spermatic or ovarian. Parietal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. The inferior phrenic arteries ramify on the under surface of the diaphragm. They spring either by a common stem, or separately, from the front of the aorta immediately after it has entered the abdomen. Each artery inclines upwards and outwards on the corresponding crus, the vessel of the right side passing behind the vena cava, that of the left behind the oesophagus. At the posterior margin of the central leaflet of the trefoil tendon each artery divides into an anterior and posterior branch. The anterior branch passes forwards to anastomose with the branches of the internal mammary artery, and with its fellow of the opposite side; the posterior branch passes outwards and enters into anastomosis with the lower intercostal arteries. In addition to the terminal branches, each artery supplies a small branch to tlie suprarenal capsule, the superior suprarenal. The artery of the right side supplies offsets to the vena cava, that of the left side gives twigs to the oesophagus. Occasionally there is but one inferior phrenic arterv, and sometimes one or both vessels arise from the coeliac axis. The lumbar arteries are comparable in tlicir distribution to the inter-