THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 742 them correspond with the cartilages of Wrisberg. In the interior of the larynx, in front of the bases of the arytenoid cartilages, the cavity is- narrowed between the vocal cords, and the narrow part is called the glottis, rima glottidis or chink of the glottis, the. passage being reduced to a mere chink when the vocal cords are approximated ; but even then the back part of the glottis between the two arytenoid cartilages presents a gap. Below the glottis the sides of the cavity slope smoothly out to the full breadth of the trachea beyond; but immediately above it there is on each side a recess, the floor of which is horizontal, forming the upper surface of the true vocal cord, and limited above by the arched margin of the false vocal cord. This recess is called the ventricle of the larynx, and toward the front has a prolongation upwards called the saccule, in contact with the thyroid cartilage. The mucous membrane of the larynx is thin and firm. The submucous tissue of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds is loose, capable of being swollen up by oedema. The squamous epithelium of the fauces is exchanged for ciliated columnar stratified epithelium a little below the margin of the aryteno-epiglottidean folds ; and with this the whole of the rest of the larynx, as well as the trachea and bronchi, is lined, save only the true vocal cords, which are clothed with stratified squamous epithelium. Taste-bulbs, similar to those of the tongue, are found on those parts of the epiglottis- and aryteno-epiglottidean folds which have stratified epithelium, parts which are exceptionally sensitive. The mucous membrane is pierced by the ducts of mucous glands, of which one group, epiglottidean, lies in the pits of the epiglottis; others are in front of the arytenoid cartilages and above the false vocal cords, and a number open into the saccule. Muscles. The crico-thyroid muscles arise one on each side of the middle line from the fore part of the cricoid cartilage, and the fibres of each diverge as they pass upwards and outwards to be inserted into the inferior edge of the thyroid cartilage as far back as the tip of the inferior cornu, leaving only a space of about half an inch between the two muscles in front. By their contraction these muscles approximate the cricoid and thyroid cartilage in front, and thus make tense the vocal cords in raising the pitch of the voice. If the tip of the finger be placed over the space between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages the space will be felt to be diminished in singing high notes and increased in singing bass notes. The posterior crico-arytenoid muscles arise fleshily from the whole of the depressed portion of the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage external to the mesial ridges, and extend upwards and outwards, the fibres of each converging to be inserted into the back of the processus muscularis of the arytenoid cartilage. They rotate the external angles of the arytenoid cartilages inwards, and thereby rotate outwards the anterior angles on the cessation of vocalization. Plainly also they re-elevate the arytenoid carti- lages when they have been depressed. The lateral crico-arytenoid muscles arise one on each side from the whole