571 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. as a direct outgrowth from the ventral surface of the brain ; but, on the other hand, the presence of a small ganglion in connection with its root, which has been discovered in the mammalian embryo by Froriep, would suggest that the nerve may partly be formed from the neural crest. Morphology of the Nerves. Various attempts have been made to classify the different nerve-fibres from a morphological point of view, the most interesting being that of Gaskell. This observer recognizes two great groups, "somatic" and "splanchnic," differing from one another in the size, the central connections, and the distribution of their constituent fibres. In a typical spinal nerve he finds five subsidiary groups of fibres, two of which fall into th& somatic, while three appertain to the splanchnic division. The somatic groups are afferent and efferent; the afferent somatic fibres come from the epiblastic surface of the body, pass through the spinal ganglia, and are connected centrally with the extremity of the dorsal horn of the grey matter of the cord; the efferent somatic fibres take origin from the ex- tremity of the ventral horn of the grey matter, and are distributed to all the voluntary muscles, with the exception of those which he includes in the respiratory group. The splanchnic groups he terms respectively the "sensory splanchnic," the "gangliated splanchnic," and the "non-gangliated splanchnic." The first of these is composed of afferent fibres, which belong to the sympathetic system; they pass through the spinal ganglia, and are supposed to be connected centrally with the basal portion of the dorsal horn. The " gangliated splanchnic" group he regards as arising from the cells of Clarke's column; the fibres are efferent, and pass to the sympathetic ganglia, from Avhich in turn the various sympathetic efferent li fibres emerge. The " non-gangliated splanchnic" fibres are supposed to I take origin from the cells of the lateral column of grey matter; they are ( distributed to certain of the voluntary muscles, namely, those which II belong to Sir Charles Bell's respiratory group. The dorsal roots of the : spinal nerves contain the somatic and splanchnic afferent fibres; the ventral ' roots carry the somatic and the two forms of splanchnic efferent fibres. To the views of Gaskell it has to be pointed out in objection that the respiratory muscles of the trunk cannot be separated developmentally from the other voluntary muscles, and that it is only in the region of the head that a separation of the voluntary muscles into two groups can be effected. It may also be suggested that the term " splanchnic I is not properly applicable either to sympathetic nerve-fibres, which run I in the somatic wall, as for instance those which supply the sweat glands * and the muscles of the hair follicles, or to fibres which supply voluntary muscles, such as some of those of the respiratory group, which form a I. constituent part of the body wall. il