EMBRYOLOGY. Subsequently, in all vertebrates, an intermediate layer appears between the ectoderm and entoderm, and thus there come to be three layers of the embryo, known as epiblast, mesohlast and hypoblast The mesoblast makes its appearance in connection with the primitive streak, and the primitive streak is epiblastic. But epiblast and hypoblast are closely united in the middle line, and it is difficult to determine the precise source of the rounded corpuscles of which the mesoblast is composed. 10 m g s m e Fig. 90.—Transverse Section through the middle of Primitive Streak of Embryo Chick of the stage shown in Fig. 86, B. e, Epiblast; h, hypoblast; m, mesoblast ; g, primitive groove ; s, primitive streak ; iv, boundary wall of germinal area. (Hertwig, after KoUer.) The theory of Hertwig, according to which the mesoblast represents th& lateral pouches of the entoderm of Amphioxus, is supported by researches on Triton, which show that in that animal the mesoblast, beneath the blastopore, originates as a pair of flattened sacs whose walls form a visceral and a parietal layer. The speedy separation of the mesoblast more or less completely into two layers in all vertebrates is comfirmatory Fig. 91.—Longitudinal Sections through Ova of Triton, showing A, the commence- ment of gastrular invagination ; B, completed gastrulation. e, Epiblast; h, hypoblast ; m, mesoblast; i, primitive intestine; h, blastoi^ore ; j), yelk-plug of blastopore; d and r, dorsal and ventral lips of blastopore; ,?/, yelk-cells ; c, cleavage-cavity or cavity of germinal membrane. (Hertwig.) of the Hertwig view. But not the whole of what is included in the term mesoblast, as generally understood, is thus accounted for, according to the Hertwig theory. Bej^ond the outline of the embryo proper, separ- ated from it by a clear space, area pellucida, there is, in the germinal wall in the chick, and adherent to the entoderm in the mammal, a zone of granular corpuscles sending out branches and giving origin to the first