287 MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. the deep transverse ligament. The supei'ficial transverse ligament is formed of a few transversely running fibres, and is placed in front of the digital slips, from each of which it receives a small accession. The lateral expansions of the palmar aponeurosis cover and invest the muscles of the thumb and little finger, and are continuous at the borders of the hand with the fascia of the dorsum. In the central part of the palm lie the tendons of the flexor muscles of the digits, the lumbricales muscles and a number of the palmar digital vessels and nerves; these structures lie behind the strong central part of the palmar aponeurosis and in front of the interosseous fascia. The flexor tendons which descend upon the anterior surfaces of the fingers pass through the digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis; the vessels and nerves and the lumbricales' tendons, which descend upon the sides of the fingers, pass between the slips and behind the superficial and in front of the deep transverse ligament; the tendons of the interosseous muscles descend behind the deep transverse ligament. The interosseous fascia forms a delicate layer, which covers in front the interosseous muscles, and laterally blends with the fascia which invests the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. At its lower extremity it is continuous with the deep transverse ligament, a strong band which crosses in front of the lower extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones, and is blended with the metacarpo-phalangeal ligaments and the digital slips of the palmar aponeurosis. The septa which pass between the palmar aponeurosis and the inter- osseous fascia are of a delicate nature. The inner of the two separates the muscles of the little finger from the central part of the palm, and is pierced by the superficial palmar arch of artery and a digital branch of the ulnar nerve; the outer separates the muscles of the thenar eminence from the central part of the palm—it is pierced by the palmar digital nerves for the outer side of the index finger and for the thumb. The deep fascia of the dorsum is found in two comparatively thin layers. The more superficial is continuous with the lower edge of the posterior annular ligament and the lateral expansions of the palmar fascia, and covers and is closely associated with the extensor tendons. The deeper invests the surface of the interosseous muscles, and is attached to the metacarpal bones. THE LOWEE LIMB. MUSCLES OF THE HIP. The muscles of this region are the gluteus maximus, gluteus medius, gluteus minimus, pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and obturator externus. With the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus the tensor vaginae femoris is closely associated. With the exception of the last they are inserted into the