THE MUSCLES. membrane by the labial glands and the coronary arterial arches. The more superficial fibres are derived from the elevators and depressors of the angles of the mouth. Deeper than those are found the fibres of the buccinator muscles, and deepest of all lie those of the musculi incisivi. The bundle of fibres running in the margin of the lips is somewhat distinct from the rest of the muscle, and is derived from the buccinators. The fibres of the elevators and depressors of the lips pass obliquely amongst the transverse fibres to reach the skin, and, in addition to these, a special set of oblique fibres has been described as being peculiarly well developed in the child, passing between the mucous membrane and the skin near the margin of the lips. At the angle of the mouth the fibres of the zygomaticus major, the risorius, and the upper part of the platysma are partially blended with the orbicularis. The movements of the lips depend on the combined and antagonistic actions of the muscles which pass to the orbicularis. The aperture of the open mouth is widened by the action of the buccinators in combination with the elevator and depressor muscles of the lips. By the combined actions of the elevators and depressors of the angles of the mouth the oral aperture is narrowed. The buccinators draw outwards the angles and press the lips against the teeth, and in this way play an important part in the process of mastication. When the aperture of the lips is narrowed by the other muscles, the graduated contraction of the buccinators governs the expulsion of air from the buccal cavity. THE MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ORBIT. The cavity of the orbit contains the globe of the eye, which is placed in the fore part, and, in addition, six muscles which act upon the eyeball. Another muscle, the elevator of the upper lid, is also, in its greater part, contained within the orbit. The rest of the cavity is filled, even in the most emaciated subjects, with soft fat, which, along with the fascia which divides it into lobes, and sheaths the muscles and surrounds the pos- terior part of the globe, plays an important part in maintaining the position of the eyeball and in modifying the actions of the muscles upon it. The muscles which act upon the eyeball are the four straight and the two oblique muscles. The four recti or straight muscles—the superior, inferior, external, and internal—take origin at the back of the orbit from a common tendon, somewhat aponeurotic in its nature, which is partially divided into two portions, an upper and lower. The common tendon is attached to the upper, inner, and lower margins of the optic foramen, thence it crosses the sphenoidal fissure to a prominent point on the posterior margin of the orbital surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone; a tendinous band connected with the origin of the external rectus muscle crosses the fissure somewhat higher up, and connects the outer ends of the upper and lower