278 THE MUSCLES. bursa being interposed at the point of crossing. Thereafter the two tendons, under cover of the posterior annular ligament, pass along the outermost broad groove on the back of the radius, where each is surrounded by a synovial sheath. At the insertion a small bursa is interposed between each tendon and the bone. The extensor digitorum communis springs by the common tendon from the external epicondyle, and receives fibres from the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa. It is inserted into the posterior surfaces of the second and third phalanges of the four inner digits. The tendons separate from one another a little above the annular ligament, and pass side by side along the inner broad groove on the back of the radius, receiving a synovial investment. On the dorsum of the hand the diverging tendons present two connections of different kinds with one another; the more obvious consists of two slips given off from the tendon of the ring finger to join the tendons of the middle and little finger, and is well known to musicians; the other consists of a transparent transverse band between the tendons of the middle finger and forefinger. On the back of the first phalanx of each finger the tendon spreads out into a fibrous expansion, which covers the bone posteriorly. The expansion is continued below into three thin slips, the median of which is attached to the base of the second phalanx, while the two lateral, after joining with one another, reach the base of the third phalanx. The tendinous expansions on the backs of the first phalanges are joined by the tendons of the lumbricales and interosseous muscles, and detach from theii* margins fibres to the metacarpo-phalangeal and interphalangeal ligaments. In the case of the index, and in that of the little finger, the expansion receives in addition an accession from the tendon of the special extensor of the digit. The extensor minimi digiti (extensor digiti quinti proprins), a long slender muscle, springs by the common tendon from the external epi- condyle, and receives fibres from the fascia of the forearm and the inter- muscular septa. The tendon passes along a groove between the lower ends of the radius and ulna, and on the back of the hand divides into two, one portion joining the innermost tendon of the common extensor, the other passing directly to the fibrous expansion on the back of the first phalanx of the little finger. The extensor carpi ulnaris springs by the common tendon from the external epicondyle of the humerus, and receives fibres from the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa. It is inserted into the tuberosity at the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. The muscle descends along the inner portion of the posterior surface of the ulna, and the tendon, surrounded by a synovial sheath which is continued almost to the insertion, passes along a special groove on the posterior surface of the lower extremity of the bone.