250 THE SKELETON. The palatal and nasal bones each ossify from a single centre later than the superior maxillary. The vomer, about the same time, is ossified from a pair of centres which soon unite. The malar is stated to have three centres of origin which speedily unite (Testut). The inferior turbinated begins to ossify in the fifth month of foetal life. The lower jaw is, next to the clavicle, the earliest bone to show osseous deposit. It is developed round Meckel's cartilage, mainly outside of it;, but additional centres have been noted at the lingula, at the angle, at the coronoid process, and at the condyle. The condyle is laid down in cartilage before its ossification begins, but the supposition that Meckel's cartilage is in any part converted into osseous tissue of the jaw is erroneous. The fontanelles. The anterior fontanelle {bregma of old writers) is a diamond-shaped gap in the osseous roof of the young skull where the Fio. 2'26.—Skull at Birth, from ahove, considerable postero-lateral fontanelle, and no antevo- showing anterior and ijosterior fontanelles. lateral. frontal, sagittal, and coronal sutures meet. It remains open till about the end of the second year, and has an obvious pulsation communicated to it by the intracranial arteries. The posterior fontanelle, situated where the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures meet, presents at birth only a slight three-sided space; but the occipital and parietals are at that time suffi- ciently loosely connected to allow the tip of the occipital to be pressed below the margin of the parietals in the passage of the child's head through the pelvis, so that the spot is easily detected with the fingers, by the accoucheur. Antero lateral and postero-lateral fontanelles have also been described at the inferior angles of the parietals, but there is no constant deficiency in the osseous walls at these parts. element found in mammalian intermaxillaries, while birds have a mesial ascending element in front of the nostrils ; and that in the fish the intermaxillary, so-called, is a purely lateral element, while the mesial elements take part in the formation of the prevomerine bone (nasal of Owen), closing in the cranium in front and contain- ing in addition a nasal element.