402 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. the name of sulcus terminalis. On the right surface of the interauricular septum is situated an oval depression, the fossa ovalis, which is bounded, except at its lower part, by a prominent margin, the annulus ovalis. The fossa ovalis is the remains of what was, in foetal life, the foramen ovale, an open passage between the auricles, which afterwards became closed by the application of a valvular fold. The communication between the auricles sometimes persists in the adult as a narrow oblique passage. In front of the opening of the inferior vena cava, a fold of endocardium passes across the posterior part of the auricle to the lower extremity of the annulus ovalis ; it is of very variable size, and frequently shows numerous small perforations. It is the remains of the Eustachian valve, a fold which, in foetal life, directed the blood of the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale to the left auricle. There is no valve at the opening of the superior vena cava. Between the Eustachian valve and the auriculo- ventricular opening, which occupies the floor of the auricle, is the orifice Right auricular appendix Valve of Thebesius Fig. 309.—Right Auricle of Child at Birth, showing the foramen ovale. The anterior wall has been removed. (C. Gegenbaur.) of the coronary sinus, into which the veins of the heart pour their blood. It is guarded by a thin imperfect valvular fold, the valve of Thebesius. Numerous small pits open upon the wall of the auricle; many of them are blind, but some contain the openings of small veins from the wall of the heart; they are known collectively as the foramina of Thebesius. The left auricle, four-sided and somewhat flattened, is, to a large extent, hidden behind the aorta and pulmonary artery. Its appendix, which is the most superficial part, projects forward by the left side of the pulmonary artery. Internally it presents a smooth surface, except in the appendix, the walls of which are marked by prominent muscular ridges. Posteriorly the four pulmonary veins, two upon each side, open into it, the orifices being destitute of valves. On the septum the position of the foetal foramen ovale is marked by an irregularity of the surface, the most con- stant feature of which is a small depression with a slender limiting ridge below it, at the upper border of the original foramen. The auriculo- ventricular aperture lies in the anterior part of the floor.