561 THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. ganglia; in the cervical region the number of ganglia is reduced to three; there are four or five lumbar and four sacral ganglia, and the chains of opposite sides terminate in a median ganglion impar on the front of the coccyx. The ganglia of the great sympathetic cords may be termed the iwoxinniJ (/anfflid, and they are to be distinguished from other more distally placed scnnidari/ or distal ganglia which are found scattered among the branches of the cords. The proximal ganglia are connected with the anterior divisions of the spinal iierves by branches which are styled the rami coininunicantes. These communicating branches are of two kinds, which are named respectively v:hite and greji branches of communication. The white rami are formed of medullated fibres of small diameter; they may be regarded as the sole roots of the sympathetic system. They contain both efferent and afferent fibres, and are probabl}^ limited to the thoracic and the upper part of the lumbar region ; their fibres, running in the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, pass between the thoracic and upper lumbar proximal ganglia and the spinal cord. It is to be added, however, that from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves fibres similar to those which form the white roots pass outwards and, instead of joining the proximal ganglia of the main cord, run directly to the distal ganglia of the pelvic plexus of the sympathetic. Many of the cranial nerves contain fibres which are to be compared to those of the sympathetic system. The grey rami are branches of distribution from the sympathetic ganglia; they are formed chiefly of non-medullated fibres; one passes to each of the spinal nerves. On reaching the spinal nerve the grey fibres of the ramus break up into two divisions; one of these, the smaller, passes backwards and ramifies on the sheaths of the spinal cord, the other turns outwards with the spinal nerve, and is distributed peripherally. The very few white fibres which are found in the grey rami are probably afferent sympathetic fibres, and enter the cord by the white roots. The longitudinal cord of the synipathetic of each side is formed from a series of commissures which pass between the successive ganglia; from the ganglia of the thorax and upper lumbar region, which receive the white roots, the fibres stream upwards into the neck and downwards into the pelvis. Branches. In addition to the grey rami, which are distributed to the body wall, there are given off in the neck, thorax, and upper part of the abdomen, numerous visceral branches, the most important of which are the cardiac and splanchnic nerves; they form large plexuses con- taining ganglia; from the plexuses smaller plexuses are prolonged to the viscera and visceral bloodvessels, and these in their turn frequently contain ganglia. The efterent fibres of the sympathetic have various functions. To the heart and bloodvessels there pass fibres which are termed vaso-motor ; their stimulation causes acceleration of the heart 2 N