THE STERNUM. 121 from the comparatively narrow inferior straight border. There a small facet intervenes which, together with a similar facet on the body of the sternum, makes the notch of insertion of the second costal cartilage. The body, or mesosternum, increases in breadth from its upper end to the insertion of the fifth costal cartilage. Two distinct transverse ridges on the superficial aspect mark the junction of its first and second segments, and of the second and third; and opposite these ridges the edges are notched to receive the third and fourth cartilages. More than half way down on the remaining part are the notches for the fifth pair of costal cartilages, with an obscure ridge between them, while, still lower, are two pairs of notches for the sixth and seventh, placed one close above the other, those for the seventh marking also the ensiform process. The ensiform or xiphoid process, or metasfernum, is a thin projection with its deep surface continuous with that of the mesosternum, while, superficially it is depressed at its origin. It often remains The Sternum from the front. wholly or in part cartilaginous till a late period of life, and is sometimes straight and narrow, sometimes expanded, perforated, or bifurcated. Sometimes it projects forwards beneath the skin. The sternum increases in variability from above downwards, the lower half of the mesosternum being in some instances much broader than in others, and occasionally perforated. A pair of episternal ossifications were first described by Breschet, situated one at each side of the interclavicular depression. Luschka described a pair as large as pisiform bones ; and a specimen with a pair quite as large w"as in the Anatomical Museum in Galway when I was professor there. THE THORAX. The thoracic skeleton has its greatest strength behind, its greatest height in the plane upwards from the tips of the twelfth ribs, and is short in front. Narrow above, it attains its greatest breadth at the level of the eighth rib, and its greatest antero-posterior diameter toward the sides, at the level of the lower end of the sternum, where the ribs arch back- wards, forming the costal fossae to lodge the greatest breadth and depth of the lungs, and leave between the angles and the row of spines behind a furrow in which lie the muscles of the back. But in the mesial plane, the diameter from sternum to vertebral column is much narrower, on account of the characteristically human projection of the column into the