THE BEAIN. 604 lunar lobe, and in front of it the lohus gracilis. These both curve forwards externally as far as the anterior margin of the hemispheres; and, circum- scribed by them to the outside and behind, the anterior and inner part of the hemisphere is formed by two more compact lobules consisting of shorter laminae taking a direction more backwards and upwards, namely, the biventral, or cuneate lobe; and, internal to it, looking into the vallecula, the amygdala. The inferior vermiform process presents three groups of laminae in front of the tuber vermis. Hindermost the pyramid is its broadest part, and, together with the narrower part in front of it, the uvula, it dips farthest down into the fourth ventricle, while in front of the uvula the nodule or laminated tubercle projects forwards, underlying the primitive ventricle, and has its base continued on each side into the Fig. 436.—Cerebellum from below, with pons Varolii and section through medulla oblongata. ■posterior medullary velum already mentioned, a thin translucent membrane of white substance, with a free edge looking forwards. Externally the free edge of the posterior velum is continued on to the stem or peduncle of a minute lobe deserving further attention, the floccidus. The flocculus {suhpedtmcidated lobe) is in its development no mere lobule of the cerebellum similar to the others, but is a lateral outgrowth of the floor of the cerebro-spinal cylinder, while the rest of the cerebellum is a mesial extension of the roof further forwards.^ It lies beneath the cerebellar peduncles and in front of the cuneate lobe, the peduncle of the flocculus being close to the origin of the auditory nerve. The peduncle of the flocculus has a groove which extends its whole length, and on into the flocculus itself from the lateral recess of the fourth ventricle, one margin of the groove being continuous with that of the ligula and ^ In the rabbit and some other animals it is lodged in a deep hollow in the pars petrosa of the temporal bone.