THE SKELETON. 152 coracoid process, and, as seen from in front or behind, is broad above and narrow below. The trapezoid ligament has its fibres parallel, directed from the trapezoid ridge of the clavicle downwards and inwards to the tuberosity of the coracoid process, its posterior border in contact with the outer border of the conoid ligament; and in the recess between the two there is often a synovial bursa. Ligaments of the scapula. The coraco-acromial or deltoid ligament is the more important of these. Its attachment to the acromion is narrow and placed on the inner side of the tip; its other attachment extends along the outer edge of the coracoid process. Its anterior and posterior fibres are strong, while between them there is a weak part or a gap. It com- pletes with the acromion an arch separated by a bursa from the humerus and the insertion of the supraspinatus muscle, which are pushed up against it when the arm is leaned on. The suprascapular ligament is the band of fibres which converts the supra- scapular notch into a foramen. Movements of the shoulder-girdle. The clavicle admits of movement on the sternum in upward, downward, forward and backward directions. Its elevation is limited by the costo-clavicular ligament, which is tightened when the arm is raised. When the arm is depressed, as in lifting a heavy weight, the interclavicular ligament and interarticular fibro-plate are tightened by the rolling upwards of the inner end of the clavicle round the attachments of the anterior and posterior ligaments, while the shaft is dragged downward and forward, gliding on the first costal cartilage. Thus the greatest depression of the clavicle involves a forward position of the shoulder. But when the outer end of the clavicle is raised, it can be moved forwards and backwards. The coraco-acromial joint allows movement in every direction, so far as its own structure is concerned, but is limited in its actual movements by the coraco-clavicular ligament and the wall of the thorax. The coraco-clavicular ligament limits movement of the lower angle of the scapula outwards, and movement of the base both backwards and forwards. In shrugging the shoulder the base of the scapula is approached to the clavicle; in letting it fall by its own weight, especially when the vertebral column is erect, the angle between scapula and clavicle is enlarged. When the arm is raised, the lower angle of the scapula is carried outwards, the elevation of the arm being accomplished by movement of the shoulder-girdle, as well as of the humerus on the scapula, and the movements of the girdle being effected in part at the sterno-clavicular articulation, and in part at the acromio-clavicular. The Shoulder-Joint. This is a true ball-and-socket joint, the surfaces being perfectly spherical, with the exception that the head of the humerus requires to be very slightly raised close to its margin internally. The large amount of variety of movement which it allows is obtained by the small size of the scapular