THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 463 gradually approaches it from the outer side in the upper fourth of the leg, descends for a little distance in front of it, but at the ankle again falls back to its outer side. The branches are small and numerous, and are divided into three sets—recurrent, muscular, and malleolar. The posterior recurrent branch, often absent, is given off before the artery pierces the interosseous membrane, and ascends on the deep surface of the popliteus muscle to anastomose with the lower articular branches of the popliteal. The anterior recurrent branch takes origin immediately after the artery has pierced the membrane, and passes upwards through the tibialis anticus to end, like the posterior branch, in anastomosis with the lower articular arteries. The muscular branches, very numerous, supply the muscles of the front of the leg. Before the artery pierces the membrane, a slender branch is distributed to the upper part of the soleus. The malleolar branches pass from the main stem transversely behind the tendons immediately above the ankle-joint; the internal, the smaller, ramifies upon the inner malleolus and anastomoses with the internal malleolar branch of the posterior tibial artery and with the internal branches of the dorsal artery of the foot; the external, usually a little lower in position than the internal, is distributed around the outer malleolus and anastomoses with the anterior and posterior terminal divisions of the peroneal artery. The Dorsal Artery of the Foot. The dorsal artery of the foot (Fig. 348), the continuation of the anterior tibial artery, passes forwards from a spot opposite the middle of the ankle- joint to the posterior extremity of the interspace between the metatarsal bones of the first and second toes, where it sinks into the sole to inosculate with the termination of the external plantar artery. It lies upon the sur- face of the tarsal bones, being bound down by a strong layer of connective tissue; the tendon of the long extensor of the great toe lies to its inner side, and before it dips into the sole it is crossed by the first tendon of the extensor digitorum brevis. It is accompanied by two venae comites and by the inner terminal branch of the anterior tibial nerve, which is usually placed along its outer side. As it passes forwards on the dorsum of the foot it gives off one or two small branches from its inner side, and from the outer side the tarsal and metatarsal branches. Before it sinks into the sole it detaches the first dorsal interosseous artery; in the sole it gives off the arteria princeps hallucis. The internal branches, small and irregular, ramify over the inner side of the tarsus and anastomose with branches of the internal plantar and the internal malleolar arteries. The tarsal artery passes outwards under cover of the extensor brevis muscle in company with the outer terminal branch of the anterior tibial nerve, and breaks up into twigs which supply the surrounding parts and anastomose with branches of the external malleolar, the external plantar, and the metatarsal arteries.