THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 457 muscular branches ramify in the abdominal wall and anastomose with offsets of the circumflex iliac, ilio-lumbar, lumbar, and lower intercostal arteries. An aberrant obturator artery springs from the commencement of the deep epigastric trunk in about 30 per cent, of the cases. It is due to an enlargement of one of the pubic branches : it descends to the obturator notch usually by the outer side of the crural canal; in rare cases, how- ever, it passes b}^ the inner margin of the crural ring, a position in which it is in danger of being wounded in the operation for the relief of a strangulated femoral hernia. The deep circumflex iliac artery (Fig. 341) springs from the outer side of the main stem in close proximity to the origin of the deep epigastric. It passes outwards and uj)wards behind Poupart's ligament to the anterior superior spine, and is then continued backwards along the iliac crest. It lies in the deep layer of fascia of the abdominal wall and furnishes numerous branches to the muscles of the upper part of the thigh and the lower part of the abdomen; it anastomoses with the deep epigastric, gluteal, ilio-lumbar, and lumbar arteries. One branch, frequently of some size, ascends im- mediately above Poupart's ligament, between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. Surgical anatomy of the abdominal arteries. Ligature of the abdominal aorta has been performed, but hitherto without success. The spot most suitable for the operation is about an inch above the bifurcation, and could be reached by an incision made along the linea alba, having the umbilicus as its centre. The descending branches from the aortic to the hypogastric plexus of sympathetic nerves which lie upon the sides of the vessel should be carefully avoided. The vena cava lies to the right side. The common iliac artery has been successfully tied. It may be easily reached through a median incision from the symphysis pubis to the umbilicus, and in this way also the internal iliac may be secured. Surgeons, however, in tying either of the two vessels, have usually adopted a method which, if properly carried out, saves the peritoneum from injury. A curved incision is carefully made through the abdominal wall down to, but not including, the peritoneum, and the serous membrane is stripped from the iliac fascia and pushed upwards until the artery is reached. The incision commences near the inner end of and a little above Poupart's ligament, passes upwards and outwards for a little distance parallel to the ligament, and then bends upwards and inwards. The incision must not, at its lower end, be carried so far inwards as to wound the superficial abdominal ring or the cord; if it come too near Poupart's ligament the deep circumflex iKac vessels would be endangered; if it be placed too far above Poupart's ligament the deep abdominal ring might be injured; the deep epigastric artery may be exposed at the inner part of the wound. The veins which accompany the iliac arteries are very large, and numerous sympathetic branches are in close proximity and should be carefully cleared aside. In the case of the internal iliac artery the ureter must be avoided. The external iliac artery