THE RESPIRATOEY ORGANS. 748 in shape and in weight, as well as in the arrangement of the large air-tubes. The right lung has three lobes and the left only two. The lobes are separated one from another by deep fissures into which the pleura extends. In both lungs a deep fissure passes inwards and somewhat upwards from a line which cuts the surface, beginning behind between two and three inches from the apex, and extending downwards and forwards to the base near the anterior edge; and by this means the inferior lobe is defined in both lungs. But on the right lung there is an additional fissure which begins from the first mentioned fissure more 'than midway back, and cuts the outer surface in a nearly horizontal direction so as to separate a middle lohe from the lower and fore part of the upper. This separation of the upper from the middle lobe often falls short of the anterior edge and is never as complete as the separation of the inferior lobe, although we shall find that in its bronchial arrangements the middle lobe is more closely connected with the inferior. The right lung has less vertical height thai the left, for though the apex usually reaches a little higher than that of the left lung, the base is raised by the bulk of the liver below it. On the other hand, the weight of the liver offers an obstacle to pathological diminu- tion of height of the right lung which is not offered by the stomach to the diminution of the height of the left lung. The right lung is much less hollowed out on its inner surface by the heart than is the left, and its anterior edge approaches the middle line or slightly crosses it. The left lung is excavated by the heart, both on its inner surface and at its anterior edge, where the upper lobe retreats above the apex of the heart and turns forwards below in a tongue-like process round it. The average weight of the right lung, as compared with the left, has been estimated as being about twenty-two ounces compared with twenty. Internal structure. Healthy lung-substance is spongy, easily compressed between the fingers, but recovering its form immediately. It gives, on pressure, a peculiar sensation termed crepitation, due to the movement of air in minute spaces. When air is blown in by the wind-pipe it is seen to expand the substance of the lung in every part, and to be forcibly expelled by the elasticity of the minute texture, unless the wind-pipe be thoroughly closed. But even in the collapsed state the lung-substance is permeated with air, which cannot, without much difficulty, be perfectly removed; and hence it floats in water, and when cut presents a frothy section. The proper texture of the lung is white, but it is tinged to a variable extent according to the amount of blood which it contains, and has its white converted into a grey appearance by deposits of black substance. Only once have I met with a pair of adult human lungs absolutely devoid of such deposits; often they are in such abundance as to make the lungs very dark, even if we keep out of consideration colliers' and knife-grinders' lungs which have been subjected to the inhalation of solid particles of a •comparatively coarse description. When the deposits are moderate in