THE NEEVES. 514 by the subclavian vein. The nerve of the right side crosses the second part of the subclavian artery, the scalenus anticus intervening, and after- wards descends by the outer side of the right innominate vein. That of the left side is placed in front of the first portion of the left subclavian artery, and lower down crosses the arch of the aorta. Within the thorax both nerves descend on the sides of the pericardium, passing in front of the pulmonary roots. They then pierce the diaphragm, and on its under surface spread out into branches, which supply the muscle and form connections with twigs from the diaphragmatic plexus of the sympathetic nerves. In the upper part of the thorax the phrenic is usually joined by a twig from the sjmipathetic nerve, and sometimes receives filaments from the nerve to the subclavius muscle; less commonly it receives a communicating twig from the descending branch of the hypoglossal. On its way it detaches small twigs to the pericardium and pleura. The brachial plexus (Figs. 380, 381) is formed by the anterior divisions of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, and the larger part Fig. 381.—Diagram of the Brachial Plexus. A, First primary cord; B, second primary cord ; C, third primary cord ; E, external cord; P, posterior cord ; /, inner cord. 1, Communicating branches to sympathetic; 2, branches to intertransverse and longus colli muscles ; 3, branches to scalene muscles ; 4, posterior thoracic nerve ; 5, nerve to the rhomboids ; 6, nerve to subclavius ; 7, suprascapular nerve ; 8, external anterior thoracic ; 9, internal anterior thoracic; 10, external cutaneous; 11, internal cutaneous; 12, lesser internal cutaneous; 13, ulnar; 14, outer head of median; 15, inner head of median; IG, median; 17, musculo-spiral; 18, 19, 20, the three subscapular nerves; 21, circumflex. THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. (J. Y. M.) of that of the first dorsal nerve. The fifth cervical nerve usually receives a slender connection from the fourth. Each of the constituent trunks is connected with the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve by a com-