MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 261 l)order of the outer third of the clavicle. It is inserted into a rough area on the outer surface of the humerus, a little above the middle of the bone. It is triangular in outline. The clavicular and spinal portions, springing by short tendinous fibres, and, passing downwards as the interior and posterior portions respectively of the muscle, are compara- tively thin. The central portion of the muscle is thick, and contains in its substance some seven or eight tendinous septa which are prolonged for some distance downwards from the origin and upwards from the insertion, and are arranged in such a manner that those from above alternate in position with those from below; the muscular fibres are for the most part short, and pass obliquely either from the bony origin to the septa, or from the upper to the lower septa, or from the septa to the bony insertion. The insertion is partly tendinous, partlj^ muscular ; fibres are prolonged from it to the external intermuscular septum of the arm. The deltoid lies on the upper and outer aspects of the shoulder, and covers the joint and the muscles inserted around it. Its anterior border is in contact with the pectoralis major. The subacromial bursa projects outwards beneath its origin. It is supplied by the circumflex nerve. The supraspinatus, occupying the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, takes origin by fleshy fibres which spring from the area of the bone between the vertebral border and the neck, and from the investing aponeurosis. It passes outwards underneath the acromion and narrows to a tendon, which, after crossing the shoulder-joint and adhering to its capsule, is inserted into the highest of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve. The infraspinatus arises (a) from the infraspinous region of the scapula, with the exception of the area at the lower angle and outer border, from which the teres muscles spring, (b) from the under surface of the spine, and (c) from the investing aponeurosis. Narrowing as it passes upwards and outwards, it is inserted by a tendon into the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon is at first concealed within the muscular substance, and afterwards, in crossing the shoulder-joint, adheres intimately to the capsule. The muscle is to a great extent superficial, being only partly covered by the deltoid. It is supplied by the suprascapular nerve. The subscapularis arises from the whole of the ventral surface of the scapula, with the exception of the region of the neck and of the area at the vertebral border to which the serratus magnus is attached. Many of the fibres spring directly from the bone, but in addition a number take origin from two or three tendinous laminae, which are prolonged into the substance of the muscle from the ridges of the venter. The muscle passes outwards, the lower fibres ascending considerably, the upper descending a little; it is inserted by a strong flat tendon into the small tuberosity of the humerus. The tendon crosses in front of the