658 OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. The mode of action of the rods and cones is to a certain extent deducible from their structure. The discs of the laminated portions are suited for reflecting, from different depths, light striking at all obliquely, and such obliquity will result from passing through any other than the central point of the lens-like body. The rays, when reflected, will return by other courses than those by which they entered, and thus be diff'used over diff'erent portions of the nerve-endings, whether these be in the centre of the basal elements or lodged in the grooves around. Vertical rays will, in the human eye, be absorbed by the pigmented epithelium behind, as will also such oblique rays as come in contact with the pig- mented threads around; but when a tapetum is present there is no pigment to absorb completely penetrating rays, nor to confine rays, either in pene- tration or reflection, to one rod or cone. No rod or cone can produce more than one sensation or spot of appreciated landscape, and therefore the greater the number in a given area the greater will be the fineness of vision. As all light has to traverse the thickness of the retina to reach the bacillary layer, it is obvious that the nerve-fibres are insensible to the direct action of light; and this is in accordance with the easily demonstrated blindness of the optic pore, the spot situ- ated one-tenth of an inch internal to the axis, where the nerve-fibres enter the retina, and where there is necessarily! absence of visual epithelium. The external nuclear or external granular layer presents at first sight little but a close aggregation of oval bodies. On closer examination these are found to be placed on the course of perpendicular nerve-fibres, each continuous with a rod or cone, those going to the rods being particularly fine and liable to varicosity. The bodies attached to the cones are the larger, they are distinctly nucleated, and, save within the macula lutea, they are pressed up against them, immediately beneath the external limiting membrane. The bodies connected with the rods interrupt the fibres at a variable part of their course; they are oval, and, when fresh, show transverse striation, two or more less refractive lines forming bands in a denser substance. It is noticeable that near the ora serrata this layer diminishes gradually in thickness, while the rods appear to remain as numerous as elsewhere. The outer molecular or external plexiform or reticular layer is that m Fig. 492.—Diagram of connection be- tween Bacillary Elements and Ganglionic Corpuscles, a, Bacillary layer ; b, external granular layer; c, external plexiform; e, Internal granular ; v, internal plexiform ; g, ganglionic ; h, optic nerve layer ; a, rods ; 6, cones ; c, granule of cone ; d, granule of rod ; e, bipolar corpuscle of rods; /, /', bi- polar corpuscles of cones; g, h, i,j, k, gang- lionic corpuscles ramifying in different strata of internal plexiform layer; r, r, inferior arborizations of bipolar corpuscles; $, centrifugal nerve-fibre; t, nuclevis of jMiiller's fibre (the latter looked on as epi- thelial); X, terminations of rod-fibres among ascending arborizations of bipolar corpuscles; 2, contact of arborizations of cones and bi- polar corpuscles. (Cajal.)