171 THE FEMUR in a spine marking the insertion of a tendon in which the longest fibres of the muscle end; while the upper part of the outer line gives origin to the lower fibres of the short head of the biceps. The surface prolonged up from the linea aspera is divided by a prominent line into an inner and an outer portion. The inner portion is mainly devoted to the upper part of the adductor magnus muscle, internal to which are inserted the adductor brevis, pectineus and iliacus, while in front of the small trochanter the spiral line already mentioned comes down to the linea aspera. The outer portion is a rough surface for insertion of the gluteus maximus, and is usually rather depressed except at its upper end, a little below the base of the great trochanter, where it rises in a prominence and receives the pull of the large part of the muscle whose tendinous fibres are at first spread out in the fascia lata. Above this, and extending up a little on the back of the great trochanter, is the place of attachment of the quadratus femoris. About the middle of the linea aspera is placed the arterial foramen for the medullary vessels, which slopes upwards- into the bone. The inferior extremity presents a large articular surface divided by slight marks into three parts, namely, an anterior surface for the patella, and two rolling surfaces or condyles which articulate with the tibia and extend backwards, separated by a deep intercondylar fossa. The 'patellar surface is grooved from above down- wards, and the part of it outside the groove is trans- versely convex and broader than the part internal to the groove, and is con- siderably more prominent, throwing the patella in- wards when the knee is straight. Both the condyles are convex from side to side, and helicoid in their longitudinal curve. The outer condyle is the shorter and broader, and has its outer border projecting but slightly further out than the patellar surface. The inner condyle lies in greater part parallel with the outer; but its outer border being almost directly behind the inner edge of the patellar surface, its inner border has in its fore part an outward curve. The separation of the outer condyle from the patellar surface is marked by a sharp line with a groove behind it commencing externally with a notch and directed inwards and slightly backwards to the intercondylar fossa; the limit of the inner condyle is marked Fig. 168.—Inferior Extremity of Right Femur, a, h, The depressions in front of the outer and inner condyles, sepai'ating them from the patellar surface, and receiving the semilunar fibro-plates of the knee-joint in complete extension ; c, d, the marks of attachment of the external or anterior, and the internal or posterior crucial ligaments. The shaded strip on the outer side of the internal condyle is the surface on which the inner facet of the patella rests in extreme flexion.