THE ARTERIES OF THE LEG. 467 current of blood in these cases passes through an enhirged peroneal artery, and one or more of the communicating branches. The dorsal arferij of flic foot may be partly or wholly derived from the anterior peroneal artery. It may be reduced in size, some of its ultimate digital branches being transferred to the external plantar artery by an enlargement of the ])er- forating vessels ; on the other hand, it may be larger than usual, forming the greater part or even the whole of the plantar arch. The external pkinfar artery varies inversel}' with the dorsal artery of the foot. The internal plantar artery is very variable; it may extent! no further than the muscles at the base of the great toe or, much enlarged, may give the chief supply to that digit. Surgical anatomy of the arteries of the leg. The course of the anterior tibial artery may be marked on the surface by a line di'awn from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to a spot opposite the centre of the front of the ankle-joint. The vessel may be reached in any part of its course through an incision made along this line. It is most superficial in the lower third of the leg, and in this situation it is being gradually crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the extensor hallucis lono-us ; its venae comites are in close apposition, and the anterior tibial nerve lies by its outer and anterior border. The dorsal artery of the foot continues the line of the anterior tibial from the middle of the ankle-joint to the posterior extremity of the first intermetatarsal space. It lies very close to the bone, and is enveloped in a firm layer of connective tissue. Two venae comites accompany it, and the nerve lies usually to the outer side. The posterior tibial artery is deeply placed in the upper two-thirds of the leg, but is comparatively superficial below. The lower part of a line drawn from the centre of the popliteal space to a spot midway between the point of the internal malleolus and the most prominent part of the heel would indicate the course of the vessel. It may be ligatured in the lower third of the leg through an incision made midway between the margin of the tendo Achillis and the inner border of the tibia ; or it may be tied at the inner side of the ankle through a curved incision half an inch below the point of the malleolus. The venae comites are in close apposition to it, and the nerve is placed externally. It may be reached in the middle third of the leg through an incision about a quarter of an inch behind the inner border of the tibia; in this operation part of the origin of the soleus muscle must be divided.