413 THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. into the right subclavian and right common carotid arteries. Some remains of the thymus gland lie in front of it. It lies behind the sternum and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. It is placed at its commencement in front of the trachea, and higher up by the side of the trachea; at its right side it is in contact with the right pleura. The left innominate vein crosses it, and the right innominate vein and the right pneumogastric nerve lie by its right side. Occasionally a small branch, the thyrodea ima artery, passing upwards in front of the trachea to the thyroid body, springs from it. The Common Carotid Artp^ries. The left common carotid artery (Fig. 317) arises from the arch of the aorta, behind the middle of the manubrium, being placed at its origin immediately to the left of the innominate artery. It passes upwards and to the left, and enters the neck behind the left sterno-clavicular articulation. It lies behind the first piece of the sternum and the origins of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles; remains of the thymus gland lie upon it, and it is crossed in front by the left innominate vein. It rests at first upon the anterior surface of the trachea, and afterwards, by the side of the trachea, upon the oesophagus, which deviates at the root of the neck a little to the left side. The thoracic duct lies behind it. The thoracic part of the left subclavian artery lies further back and to the left of this portion of the vessel, and the left pneumogastric nerve is a little external to it. The common carotid arteries in the neck (Fig. 318) ascend, without branching, in front of the cervical transverse processes, as far as the fourth vertebra, where, on a level with the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, they divide into the external and internal carotid arteries. The course may be marked on the surface by a line drawn upwards from the sterno- clavicular articulation towards a point midway between the mastoid pro- cess and the angle of the jaw. The artery is crossed a little above its middle, at the level of the cricoid cartilage, by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle; the part of the vessel below the crossing, lying by the side of the trachea, is deeply placed; the part above, by the side of the larynx, is comparatively superficial. In its whole course the artery, accompanied by the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve, is surrounded by a sheath derived from the cervical fascia. Each structure occupies a separate compartment in the sheath; the vein lies external to the artery, close to it, with a tendency below to separate a little from it on the right side, and to overlap it slightly on the left; the nerve lies behind and between the vessels. The sheath rests behind on the origins of the longus colli and scalenus anticus muscles; the sympathetic nerve lies behind it along its whole length, and the inferior thyroid artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve cross obliquely behind it in the lower part