OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 676 branous labyrinth; and each is divided into two parts, the vestibule and the cochlea, the division being situated opposite the internal auditory meatus, whose cribriform plate abuts against the vestibule posteriorly, and against the cochlea in front. The osseous labyrinth is lined with periosteum, and the fluid between the periosteum and the membranous labyrinth is called perilymph. The membranous labyrinth is lined with epithelium, and the fluid contained within it is distinguished topographically as endolijmph Fenestra ovalis Superior semicircular canal / Ampulla of external semicircular canal Fenestra rotunda Ampulla Posterior semicircular canal Fig. 510.—Cast of Lebt OssEotJs Labyrinth, External Aspect. (Pansch.) The vestibule. The osseous vestibule consists of a cavity and three semi- circular canals. The vestibular cavity has the fenestra ovalis in its outer wall, and communicates with the cochlea below and in front; the lower part of the communication being hollowed into a depression, recessus cochleae, internal to the fenestra rotunda. On its inner side in front is a depression, fovea hemispherica, corresponding with the cribriform plate of the internal meatus and separated by a crest {crista vestibuli) from a more elongated concavity, fovea hemielliptica, which involves the roof and internally receives the aqueductus vestibuli. Posteriorly it com- municates with the semicircular canals. The three semicircular canals are one superior, another p)Osterior, and the third external. The superior canal is an upright arch at right angles to the length of the petrous portion of the temporal, and the top of this arch is indicated on the upper surface j! of the bone by an elevation. The posterior canal lies close to the posterior surface of the bone, beneath which it can be seen in the young subject; and at its upper end it is joined to the superior canal by a short part common to both. The external canal is free at both ends from the others, is shorter than either of them, and is horizontal and deeply placed. Each canal has a bulbous swelling, the ampulla, at one end, and this, in the superior and external canals, is situated at their outer ends, and in the posterior at the lower end. The membranous vestibule difl'ers from the osseous in respect that, con- tained within the vestibular cavity there are two membranous vesicles, the | utricle and the saccule. The utricle is the posterior and larger of the two | vesicles, is broad from side to side and flattened from before backwards, | and lies beneath the fovea hemielliptica. It receives the fine extremities | of three membranous semicircular canals corresponding with the osseous '] semicircular canals in disposition and in each having an ampulla at one end.