MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 275 The flexor pollicis longus, extending in its origin from the bicipital tuberosity to the margin of the pronator quadratus, and narrow and pointed above where it is limited by the oblique line, springs from the anterior surface of the radius and the radial half of the adjacent interosseous membrane ; in many cases a delicate slip from the coronoid process joins the inner edge of the muscle. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the terminal phalanx of the thumb at its base. The tendon passes behind the anterior annular ligament and between the outer and inner portions of the short flexor of the thumb to gain the anterior surface of the phalanges, to which it is bound down by a vaginal sheath similar to those of the other digits. From the wrist to the insertion it is surrounded by a synovial sheath. Nerve supply of the muscles of the front of the forearm. These muscles are supplied by the median and ulnar nerves, the ulnar con- tributing branches to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum, the median to the others. The two outer lumbricales are supplied by the median, the two inner by the ulnar. Synovial sheaths. A large synovial sheath surrounds the tendons of the superficial and deep flexors of the fingers, and the median nerve, as they pass behind the annular ligament. It extends upwards for a little distance above the ligament and downwards into the metacarpal region of the hand, where it terminates by four blind extremities. It is subject to considerable variations. Frequently in the case of the little finger and occasionally in the others, it passes downwards on the tendons to join the digital sheaths. It often communicates with the sheath of the flexor pollicis longus. On the other hand it is sometimes found completely or partially divided by a partition into lateral portions. The tendon of the flexor pollicis longus is inclosed in a special sheath, which is nearly always continuous with its digital sheath. The tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is likewise inclosed in a special sheath. Posterior and Outer Superficial Group. The muscles of this group in order from before backwards are—the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor digitorum communis, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The first two spring from the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus and from the anterior surface of the external intermuscular septum of the arm; the others, in the order named, arise from the external epicondyle by a common tendon, and receive fibres from the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa derived from it. The supinator longus (brachio-radialis) arises from the upper two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus and the corresponding area of the external intermuscular septum of the arm. It is inserted into the outer border of the radius immediately above the styloid process.