THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 694 Dentine is a texture slightly harder than compact bone and yielding about 72 per cent, mineral matter, principally phosphate of lime. It presents, in a mineralized gelatiniferous matrix, tubules lying side by side, and extending from the pulp-cavity to the circumference, bifurcating sometimes in their course, and dividing into branches close to the surface. They also give off exceedingly fine lateral branches easier seen in young teeth than in the adult. They present in their course a large or primary, and a finer or secondary set of undulations in the vertical plane. The secondary undulations are small and irregular, but the primary are regularly disposed so as to throw the tubules in most places into a letter S curve, only to be seen in longitudinal sections and causing a satin-like play of light. The walls of the tubules resist the action of solution of caustic potash or strong acid longer than the matrix around, and may be more or less completely liberated. The lumen of the larger tubules may average about j^opQ^th of an inch in diameter. In dried teeth the tubules are filled with air, but in the fresh state they contain a thread, the dentine fibre. In sections through dentine and pulp, the dentine-fibres are seen to be continuous with processes from the layer of corpuscles surrounding the pulp, namely, the odontoblasts. The odontoblasts are elongated corpuscles arranged in a single continuous layer and sending processes, more than one from each, into the dentine canals. They can be observed from the earliest period of the development of the dentine; and as the dentine is originally formed first at the surface, and grows inwards at the expense of the pulp, the proof is complete that the odontoblasts are the dentine-corpuscles, and that they elongate their processes as these become embedded in dentinal matrix; thus differing from bone-corpuscles in being pushed in front of the calcifying matrix, instead of becoming completely embedded. This being the case, it is plain, as I have pointed out {Nature, 1890), that while bone corpuscles have only a limited individual existence, the same odontoblasts last during the whole life of the tooth. As age advances the pulp is more and more encroached on, to almost complete disappearance, and the tubules in the later dentine become irregularly disposed. Wearing away of the crown, such as happens in some persons and races more than in others, promotes growth inwards of the dentine, and in the centre of the worn surface the newer dentine is more deeply coloured. Where the dentine is covered with enamel the tubules pass occasionally out to be continued a little distance into the enamel, sometimes in a dilated form. Where it is covered with crusta petrosa, tubules may also sometimes be followed out into that substance, and, very generally, there is a granular layer {of Purkinje) underneath the crusta petrosa, which owes Fig. 526.—Longitudinal Section or Pulp and Dkntine. a, Vessels, nerves and stroma of pulp ; h, odonto- blasts ; c, dentine fibres.