THE PROSTATE, PENIS AND UEETHEA. 781 'Ihe glans penis presents at its summit the linearly shaped urethral orifice, but fails to surround it at its inferior angle, from which a mere fibrous union, the sejitim, extends back half an inch, uniting the urethra with the fibrous sheath of the corpus spongiosum. From each side of the septum the margin of the glans retreats from the urethral orifice in its course round to the dorsum, at the same time that it becomes more over- hanging and constitutes the corona gkuidis, while the constriction beneath it is called the cervir. The erectile tissue of the glans is continuous with that of the corpus spongiosum, but has claim to be considered as a separate development, being fully developed in the congenital deformity termed epispadias, in which the urethra is an open groove placed above the corpora cavernosa. Moreover, its trabecular structure is stronger, and its lacunae have been found to have more the character of dilated and con- voluted veins. Its fibrous covering is the cutis vera of the delicate integument which constitutes its free surface. The papillae of the surface of the glans are close-set and rounded, scarcely longer than broad, except at the corona; and both in the papillae and more deeply there are situated nerve-terminations, distinguished by Krause as more complex than end- bulbs and called genital corpuscles, in which recently there have been discovered convoluted networks of nerve-fibres marvellously complex (Dogiel, 1893). The iiitegument of the penis, with the exception of that entering into the structure of the glans, is loose, and has a raphe continued forwards from the scrotum. It is thin and free from hairs and fat. The folded part which covers the glans is called the prepuce or foreskin, and where it is attached to the septum of the glans it forms a prominent fraenum. Around the corona, on the cervix and on the inner layer of the prepuce, there are sebaceous glands, though no hairs are present.^ The male urethra may be counted as about nine inches long, and consists of three parts, prostatic, membranous and spongy. The prostatic part, from an inch to an inch and a half in length, is narrower at its commencement at the outlet of the bladder and at its termination in the membranous part than in the middle where it has its convex floor or posterior surface in contact with its anterior surface. From the uvula vesicae at the orifice of the bladder a prominent line runs along the floor to the middle of the prostatic part and is there continued into a little rounded eminence, the colliculus seminaMs, verumontanum or caput gallinaginis, then resumes the linear form and ends by bifurcating in front. In the depression at each side of the colliculus are the openings of the prostatic glands, while connected with the colliculus itself are three openings. In its fore part in the middle line is an orifice which admits the end of a probe and leads into a blind pouch sometimes as much as half an inch long, the sinus pocularis {uterus masculinus or JFeber's pouch), corresponding ^On the subject of the glands in this situation (commonly called Tyson's), consult Henle, Anat. d. Menschen, Eingeiveidelehre, p. 418.