THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 408 to each auricle, some form vertical loops attached below to the fibrous tissue which surrounds the great orifices, others, running transversely, encircle each cavity and take part in forming the partition ; of this group a special band surrounds the fossa ovalis. Circular fibres are likewise found in the walls of the appendices and surrounding the openings of the veins. The arrangement of the muscular tissue of the walls of the ventricles is exceedingly complicated, and, as yet, is far from being thoroughly understood. The muscular bundles are quite distinct from those of the auricles; all of them probably take origin from the centrally placed fibrous tissue. Passing from the base, they descend towards the apex of the ventricles, and, forming twisted loops, ascend again towards the base, to be attached there, either directly, or indirectly through the chordae tendineae. Many of the bundles in the centre of the substance of the wall seem to have an almost trans- verse course, and, on careful dissection, the wall may appear to be made up of an almost indefinite number of layers, so gradual is the change in the direction of the sheets of fibres. While the wall of the left ventricle contains many fibres which are confined to itself, the great majority of the fibres of the right ventricle are continuous with fibres which belong also to the left ventricle. The superficial layer over the whole surface of both ventricles descends towards the apex of the heart, where its fibres twist upon themselves, forming a whorl, and ascend as the musculi papillares and the deepest layer of the left ventricle; the super- ficial descending fibres of the front of the heart ascend in the posterior wall of the left ventricle, those of the back in the anterior wall. An intermediate stratum of fibres descends from the base towards the apex of the left ventricle; many of the fibres of this set, twisting upon them- selves, ascend again in the septum or in the wall of the left ventricle; others, however, cross in the septum and ascend in the wall of the right ventricle, forming its deeper layers and its musculi papillares. Some of the fibres of this intermediate layer have an exceedingly oblicjue, indeed, almost a transverse course. Speaking generally, the wall of the left ventricle may conveniently be divided into two layers descending from right to left, superficial to a transverse set, and two with an opposite obliquity, deeper than the transverse; while on the right side, it may be sufiicient to recog- nize two oblique layers, and an intermediate transverse layer. Fig. 314.—Superficial Layer of the Muscular Fibres of the Heart. A, From before. B, From the apex. (C. Gegenbaur.)