WALLS AND SEPTA OF THE CEEEBEAL VENTEICLES. 619 The velum interpositum (Fig. 356) is the fold of pia mater corresponding in form and extent with the fornix, beneath which it rests on the optic thalami, continuous behind with the pia mater of the corpora quadrigemina below and with that of the splenium above. Beyond the margin of the fornix it swells out into a stronger and thicker fringe rich in redundant loops of bloodvessels, the choroid ])le.vus of the lateral ventricle; and at the side, where the posterior crus of the fornix runs into the taenia hippocampi or fimbria, the pia mater still enters the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and the choroid plexus is continued without intervention of a velum interpositum. The continuous fissure by which the velum inter- positum enters mesially beneath the fornix, and the pia mater enters the descending cornua of the lateral ventricles, is horseshoe-shaped and is Corpus albicans Paracentral lobule N[arginal \ convolution / ntramarginal ) sulcus I (loso-marg-inal ) fissure i 1 For Fifth ventricle jrporis callosi . Rostrum . Lamina cinerea ., Optic nerve Pituitary bodv Pineal body-' Aqueduct of Sylvius,•-' Corpora quadrigemina. ^ ' Central lobe^'^' Mesial precen- tral fissure Precuneus Callosal g^'rus —Corpus callosum r Parieto-occipital \ fissure --'Splenium Cuneus ^.Hippocampal gyrus Anterior cal- carine fissure ..Calcarine fissvire Monticukis Tuber vermis Horizontal fissure Pyramid Lingula ' Laminated tuberck ' Uvula Fig. 449.—Me.sial Section of Brain, with the anterior crura of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq-d"Azyr dissected. called the transverse fissure of the brain. The velum interpositum supplies minute vessels upwards to the fornix, and the under surface near the sides sends down branches to the optic thalami. Its principal artery is the anterior choroidal from the internal carotid, which enters at the extremity of the transverse fissure and runs in the whole length of the choroid plexus, receiving anastomotic branches from posterior choroidal branches of the posterior cerebral artery. The blood is returned by a pair of veins running forwards in the choroid plexus, which are joined below the anterior pillars of the fornix by a vein from the surface of the corpus striatum and another from the septum lucidum to form the two veins of Galen; and these pass backwards in the middle to join before opening into the straight sinus.