THE LIVER. 735 imperfectly to be made out save with the aid of injection. They were first observed by means of coloured fluid injected backwards, but considerable doubt was felt by many until Chrzonszezewsky (1866) put an end to all question of their existence as canals during life, by his process of " natural injection," which consisted of introducing solution of indigo into the veins of an animal, when, in consequence of this substance being eliminated from the blood by the liver, injection of the intralobular canals was got by the action of the hepatic cells. These were found full of indigo when the animal was at once killed, but clear w^hen the killing was delayed half an hour. Later researches, particularly by means of the Golgi method, have not only extended the acquaintance with the intercellular passages, but traced their origins from tributaries within the hepatic cells. Only the finest inter- lobular ducts have flattened epithelium; the rest are lined with columnar cells, and the larger duds have a mucous membrane distinct from the outer Fig. 570.—Aberrant Ducts with Blind Glandular-looking Off-shoots, from the fissure of the ductus venosus, (Luschka.) wall. The outer wall of the larger ducts contains a certain amount of muscular fibres, especially those outside the liver, and the gall-bladder has a still more distinct muscular wall arranged in longitudinal and circular layers. The main ducts are beset with numerous branched pouches secreting mucus, which in the ramifications within the liver become simple and arranged in two rows, and in the smaller ducts are absent. Remarkable networks of gall-ducts without hepatic substance around them, but accom- panied with twigs of portal and hepatic veins, vasa aherrantia^ are found in the portal fissure, in a membrane joining the right and left hepatic ducts, and continued thence in the fissure of the umbilical vein, the fissure of the ductus venosus, round the vena cava inferior and into the left triangular ligament. The larger of these vasa aberrantia have mucous pouches like tlie other ducts. They are absent in the new-born child (Toldt). The hepatic artery after entering the liver ramifies in the portal canals,