INTEGUMENTS. 71 from the proximal ends, strong bands to the skin, so as to fix more or less firmly in diff'erent individuals the integument on the back of each phalanx, and accumulate over the backs of the joints the wrinkles caused by extension. The subcutaneous tissue of the scrotum is characterized by a continuous layer of unstriped muscular fibres, the darfos, which effects its contraction under the influence of cold. The corium or cutis vera consists of a stroma of tough gelatiniferous substance, apparently uniform toward the surface, but breaking up more deeply into thick bands of white fibrous substance, which, followed from their origin, are at first closely reticulated and felted, and afterwards form meshes of greater size the deeper they are, till ultimately the thick bands break up into thin fibres of ordinary connective tissue. The deeper meshes are in most places filled with grains of adipose tissue, so that in dissecting the skin away from the texture immediately beneath, a honey- comb of white fibrous tissue is exposed, w^ith fat or semi-transparent jelly in the spaces, according as the subject is well nourished or emaciated. The surface is everywhere thrown into minute elevations termed pajpillae, and the superficial part of the corium is therefore indicated as the papillary, and' the deeper as the reticulated stratum. Especially in the reticulated stratum there is a great development of curling yellow-elastic fibres, often with highly intricate coils; and it is this tissue which by its resilience causes wounds to gape, and the flaps in surgical operations to shrivel to a much smaller size than they had when mapped out before being raised. There is also a great abundance of connective-tissue-corpuscles in the corium, spindle-shaped in the deep parts and with several branches more superficially. At the very surfixce, investing the papillae and intervening parts, I find a continuous network of small stellate corpuscles connected with one another by their branches. The papillae are little elevations, which, over the surface of the body generally, have a nodular form not exceeding -Joth inch in length, and are scattered irregularly. In each there is a loop of bloodvessels, and in some there is in addition a touch-corpuscle. On the lips they are larger and crowded together. Under the nails they are likewise crowded, much elongated, pointed, and sloped in the direction in which the nail grows. On the palmar aspect of the hand and fingers, and on the sole of the foot, they are finger-like processes exceeding y^oth inch in length, arranged in ridges each of which presents a double row of tufts of papillae, while dotted in single file down the Fig. 6o.—Ridges of Integument of Thumb, with a single row of orifices of sweat-glands ill the middle of each.