768 THE UEINAEY ORGANS. measures from four to five and a half inches in length, and from three to four inches in width. During life it may be enlarged by habitually repeated distension, or diminished by continued irritability within the limits of health; while, by pathological retention of urine, it may be distended enor- mously. Conflicting statements, none of them sufficiently proved, have been made as to the comparative capacity of the male and female bladder; but, on an average, the female bladder is broader and more nearly spherical. The bladder presents a nech or outlet, a base or fundus behind the neck, and, at the uppermost point of contact with the abdominal wall, a summit with a more or less distinct fibrous cord extending up from it to the umbilicus, which is the remains of the portion of the allantois termed ' the urachus, and sometimes shows vestiges of its original tubular condition. The outlet is fixed in position; it is separated from the posterior layer of the triangular ligament by about an inch of urethra, surrounded in the male by the prostate gland, and in the female by the thick muscular walls. From the outlet there extends, in the empty but uncontracted condition of the organ, an anterior wall resting against the pubic bones and reaching over the brim of the pelvis, and an inferior part, the fundus, curving backwards and receiving the ureters, in contact with the rectum in the male, and with the vagina in the female. The remaining and greater part of the posterior wall is laid over the base and anterior wall, in contact with them, and continuous with the anterior wall at lateral edges which meet at the summit. These edges disappear as the organ becomes rounded out, and then the surfaces pass gradually one into another. In like manner the edges disappear when the organ is drawn together in full contraction. On each side of the bladder the obliterated hypogastric artery, as it courses upwards and inwards, runs for some distance in contact with it; and the reflections of peritoneum which reach the bladder at this part are called its lateral false ligaments, while that which descends to it between the arteries of opposite sides is called the superior false ligament, and those which in the male turn inwards to the lower part of its posterior surface below the contact of the arteries, are distinguished as the posterior false ligaments. In the female the posterior false ligaments can hardly be said to exist, the peritoneum being arrested, as it descends over the bladder, at the level of the cervix uteri; and so far as they do exist they are reflected from the sides of the uterus. When the peritoneum is separated from the pelvic walls, the recto- vesical fascia is brought into view passing down to the neck and to the sides of the fundus, there to terminate by investing the bladder and, in the male, the prostate. The broad bands of fascia thus grasping the bladder, one on each side, are called its lateral true ligaments, and end in front in a pair of short stout bundles of fibres, the anterior true ligaments, one at each side of the symphysis, and separated by a mesial depression (p. 393).