THE URINARY ORGANS. 766 date shows dilated divisions. The loops of Henle appear early and have been seen in the human subject in the fourth month. It has been pointed out that the kidney is derived from an elongated structure running the length of the body, and thus the mesonephros or Wolffian body is the permanent urinary gland of the lower vertebrates. It may be further mentioned that the mammalian kidney is considerably less diffuse than even that of the bird and is the only kidney confined in a fibrous capsule completely surrounding it. But to understand the development of the human kidney it is necessary also to know that the kidneys of mammals are not all alike. While some, like the rabbit and the kangaroo, gather their tubules to one papilla, or, like the sheep, to a central ridge, in others each kidney consists of a host of renules, separate -as in the porpoise, or coherent as in the seal; and, much more commonly, Fig. 599. — Suprarenal Capsule and Lobulated Kidney of Foetus of Six Months. Fig. 600.—Male Bladder, Urethra and Rectum, o, Anus ; b, bladder; c, central point of perineum; d, d, vas deferens cut across; /, bulb of corpus spongiosum ; v, rectum ; s, sacrum ; t, left testis; u, ureter; v, vesicula seminalis. there are lobulated kidneys like that of the ox in which a number of Malpighian pyramids occur, each with its portion of cortex forming a con- vexity on the surface. This lobulated condition is that which occurs in the human subject at birth, and becomes gradually concealed by the more abundant growth of the cortex. In some animals, as in the horse, the running together of lobes is still more complete than in man, the ureter ramifying backwards within a single mass of medullary tubules. Thus there are two kinds of smooth-surfaced kidneys among mammals, and the human kidney belongs to the compound kind and passes through an early smooth and a later lobulated stage. Lobules are noticed as early as in the tenth week of the embryo, and are most fully developed toward the end of foetal life.