584 CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. tinuous with the posterior roots. The whole surrounding texture consists of white substance. The white substance is arranged in three columns, anterior, lateral and posterior; the lateral column consisting of as much as lies between the anterior and posterior roots, and having the anterior and posterior columns respec- tively in front and behind it. The 'posterior column is perfectly separate, being situated internal to the posterior cornu; but in consequence of the bundles of the anterior roots being transversely scattered, the anterior column is not so definitely distinguished from the lateral column, and therefore it often becomes necessary to speak of the two together as the antero-lateral column. When the anterior and lateral columns are spoken of separately, the outer- most bundles of the anterior are taken as marking their plane of separation. Save at the white commissure, the white substance consists of longitudinally directed medullary nerve-fibres closely packed in supporting substance. Fibres of different diameters are intermingled; but those of largest size are most abundant toward the circumference of the antero-lateral column. A number of imperfect longitudinal septa, similar in substance to the posterior septum, extend from a superficial circumferent layer of neuroglia inwards through the white substance, breaking up and disappearing at different distances from the surface. It is principally in these septa that the arterioles pass inwards, giving off a sparse capillary network to the white matter, and ending in a more copious network in the grey matter; but a pair of longitudinal vessels formed by anastomosis of branches of the anterior spinal artery run in the grey commissure, one on each side. The septa are continuous with substance between the nerve-fibres, and contain, as well as it, neuroglia-corpuscles with large numbers of threadlike branches. No such septa are found above the medulla oblongata. Tracts in the white substance are recognised, not indeed in most instances to be distinguished one from another in sections, but having different con- nections, as evidenced by degenerations following lesions, according to Waller's law (p. 53), or by aid of the fact that in development difterent strands receive their medullary sheaths at different periods (Flechsig's method), or by direct anatomical observation, especially in early develop- ment. They are termed- ascending or descending according as experiment or other evidence shows that their fibres run upwards or downwards from the corpuscles from which they start. In the anterior column, on each side of the anterior fissure, is a descending tract, the direct pyramidal tract, or column of TUrck, continued down from the outer fibres of the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, and diminishing steadily from above downwards. The remaining larger part of the anterior column, the anterior ground part, appears to consist of mixed ascending and descending fibres, emerging from the grey substance and re-entering it after short courses. In the lateral column there are distinguished three cerebellar tracts on the surface. The largest known is the hindermost; it is the direct