NERVOUS ELEMENTS. 49 even be separable. The nuclei are not found on nerves within the brain or spinal cord.^ The medullary substance, otherwise called lohite substance of Schwann, though homogeneous and clear in the fresh state, escaping freely from cut extremities and leaving the axis-cylinder and primitive sheath uninjured, becomes turbid and even reticulated, and, when acted on by reagents, has been found to exhibit in transverse section radiating dispositions of stainable substance embedded in it. When at once hardened in the thoroughly fresh state, it remains altogether unstained by carmine; but if less fresh it stains considerably. The main constituent of the medullary substance escapes from cut or injured fibres in homogeneous masses termed myelin, which yields protagon and cerebrin. It may be noted that it contains phosphorus and a very small proportion of nitrogen, is probably the source of the large amount of cholesterin yielded by decomposition of brain-substance both during life and after death, and is blackened by osmic acid. The medullary substance can be removed altogether so as to show the axis-cylinder in the middle of the primitive sheath.- The nodes of Ranvier are interruptions of the medullary substance ■^Although it is customary to describe the nuclei as belonging to the primitive sheath, they can in the case of the large medullatecl nerves be shown to be merely applied to it, and may even be separated from it, in the same way as the sarcolemma of muscle is distinct from the nuclei adherent to it. ^ When the medullary substance escapes from the fresh nerve, it leaves adherent to axis-cylinder or to sheath none of the structures seen after changes have taken place. It seems to be simply an unstable chemical substance. It is worthy of note that nervous tissue is prone to decomposition proportionally to the amount of medullary substance contained in it. This circumstance, taken into account along with the instability of the medullary substance itself, uiakes it tempting to suggest that activity of the axis-cylinder may disturb the equilibrium of the medullary substance, and that this in turn may facilitate change in the axis-cylinder, and so promote nervous action. ah c Fig. 45.—Nodes of Ranvier. a, Fresh, in salt solution ; b, treated with haematoxylin ; c, im- pregnated with silver, showing transverse striation of axis-cylinder. (Toldt.) Fig. 46.—Notches OF Lantermann. Osmic acid prepara- tion. (Toldt.) D