GENEEAL ANATOMY. Wolffian bodies and middle-plates. In the superficial groove between the paraxial and lateral mesoblast, when already the split for the coelom -exists, but before the walls of the embryo are folded in, a cylinder of -corpuscles which speedily becomes tubular makes its appearance, the JFolffian duct, connected with the JFolffian lody or temporary renal organ discovered by the pioneer in embryology, C. F. Wolff (1759). This duct grows backwards with the embryo, and ultimately terminates where the allantois springs from the hind-gut. There is difference of opinion as to the source whence it is derived, whether mesoblastic or epiblastic, but it has been observed as a solid cord in conjunction with the epiblast in one section, while, in another further forward it was continuous with the mesoblast, and distinct from epiblast; and this condition has been shown to me by Mr. J. F. Gemmill. The epiblastic, therefore, is the prior connection. On the deep side of the Wolffian duct, the lateral mesoblast projects inwards so as to form with its neighbour of the opposite side, underneath the meso- blastic somites and notochord a mesial mass, the middle plate (Remak) or intermediate cell-mass; while, beneath this, the body-cavity projects inwards so as to separate the middle-plate by mesentery from the intestine. In this middle-plate, besides the great vessels (which, according to His -and Hertwig are mesenchymal), there are developed the primitive renal organs, occupying nearly the whole length of the embryo, and divided into three different organs with very different histories, viz., the head- kidneys or fore kidneys, the Wolffian bodies and the hind kidneys. In the formation of these organs, two independent sets of structures take part, besides the Wolffian duct, viz., glomeruli and tubules. The tubules, some- times termed segmental, are transverse, arranged in correspondence with the primitive segments, and start from the body-cavity. The glomeruli are vascular arrangements of the same sort as the glomeruli of the adult kidney, and dip into expansions in the course of the tubules. Three or four of the foremost glomeruli dip into hollows or tubes communicating with the end of the Wolffian duct, and constitute the head-kidney or jfwnejjhros. The greater extent of the organ constitutes the Wolffian body or mesonepliros, and shows at first a series of solid growths of the middle- plate, which become hollowed out by extension of tubular prolongations from the body-cavity, and ultimately open into the Wolffian duct after receiving the glomeruli in their course, the part of each tube between glomerulus and abdominal cavity disappearing. At first occupying the whole length of the visceral cavity, the Wolffian body retreats towards the groin, and disappears in embryonic life, leaving only minute vestiges in connection with ovary and testis. The hind kidney or metanephros is the permanent kidney of birds and mammals, and takes origin from the hinder part of the middle-plate, while the ureter is described as given off from the hinder end of the Wolffian duct; but the exact details of origin, both of kidney and ureter, are still involved in obscurity. Miillefs duct is the name given to a duct which in elasmabranch