THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 410 side of it and, in company with it, is - surrounded in its whole length by a complete pericardial sheath. The left auricle is placed behind it, and the coronary arteries and the auricular appendices lie on its sides, at its commencement. The branch for the right lung, longer and somewhat larger than that for the left, passes transversely behind the aorta and superior cava, and in front of the oesophagus, and divides in the root of the lung into two branches, the lower and larger of which is distributed to the middle and lower lobes. The branch for the left lung passes outwards and backwards, in front of the descending aorta, and divides in the root into two branches for the upper and lower lobes respectively. From its commencement there passes upwards to join the under side of the aortic arch a short fibrous cord, the ligamenhim arteriosim, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which in foetal life formed the main continuation of the pulmonary artery. In the roots of the lungs the arteries lie behind the upper veins, and in front of the bronchi; but the left artery, somewhat higher than the right, lies in a plane above the bronchus; the right branch lies below the bronchus, between it and the vein. The pulmonary veins are four short trunks, each about half an inch in length, an upper and a lower on each side. Those of the right side pass behind the superior vena cava and the right auricle, those of the left in front of the descending aorta. In the root of the lung on each side the veins are placed lower than the other structures, and the higher of the two is likewise the most anterior of the different constituents. SYSTEMIC ARTERIES. The Aorta. The aorta (Fig. 317) passes at first upwards and to the right, then transversely to the left and backwards, and finally descends along the vertebral column as far as the middle of the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, opposite which it terminates by dividing into the common iliac arteries. The descending portion is partly thoracic, partly abdominal. The vessel at its commencement is, in normal circumstances, slightly smaller in calibre than the pulmonary artery, and in its course it gradually diminishes, numerous branches being given off. The ascending portion of the aorta springs from the heart opposite the left border of the sternum, at the level of the lower edge of the third left costal cartilage; it is directed, with a slight curve, upwards, forwards, and to the right, and at the right border of the sternum at the attachment of the second right costal cartilage, the spot at which it most nearly approaches the surface, passes into the transverse portion. It is a trifle over two inches in length. It presents, at its base, three dilatations corresponding to the sinuses of Valsalva; there may also be a certain enlargement, the great sinus of the aorta, running along the whole length of its right or convex border.