280 THE MUSCLES. supinator brevis and above the middle of the bone, from the adjacent interosseous membrane, and from a small area of the posterior surface of the radius behind and below the insertion of the pronator teres. It is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb on its outer side. Its tendon along with that of the extensor of the first phalanx crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus, a bursa being interposed, and passes along the groove on the outer surface of the lower end of the radius. A common synovial sheath surrounds both tendons in the groove. The extensor primi internodii pollicis {extensor pollicis brevis) arises below the extensor of the metacarpal bone, from the interosseous membrane and the posterior surface of the radius. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Its tendon accom- panies that of the extensor of the metacarpal bone. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis {extensor pollicis longus) arises from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the ulna occupying an area placed about the middle of the bone, and from the adjacent inter- osseous membrane. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. Its tendon passes along the narrow oblique groove on the back of the radius and crosses the radial artery on the back of the carpus. In the groove the tendon is surrounded by a synovial bursa. The extensor indicis {extensor indicis proprius) arises from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the ulna below the middle of the bone, and by a few fibres from the adjacent interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes with those of the common extensor, and terminates in the expansion on the back of the first phalanx of the index finger. Nerve supply of the posterior and outer group of muscles. These muscles are, with the exception of the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior, which receive their twigs from the musculo-spiral, supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve. Synovial sheaths of the extensor tendons. As they pass along the bony grooves into which they are bound by the posterior annular liga- ment these tendons are all surrounded by synovial sheaths. As a rule one common sheath surrounds all the tendons of each groove, but the radial extensors of the carpus are each inclosed in a separate synovial sheath. Variations in the Forearm. Many of the muscles are at times absent altogether, and, in the case of the larger muscles, individual tendons or heads of origin are often wanting. On the other hand, muscles are sometimes found double, or may have additional heads of origin or tendons of insertion. Frequently slips pa^s from one to another, and in some cases distinct additional muscles are found. As the number of recorded variations is very large, only the more