36 GENERAL ANATOMY. bone from the edge of the ramus, while the hinder edge of the posterior ring was embedded by the formation of new bone behind it for a still greater distance than the anterior ring stood out loose (Cambridge Philo- sophical Society Transactions, xi.). Sections of young lower jaws under the microscope exhibit new layers added at the back of the ramus, while absorption is active in front. It may, however, be here remarked that there are circumstances in the growth of the teeth in both jaw^s, which point to some mode of expansion of those bones requiring further investi- gation. Thus, it may be noted that the permanent canine teeth have their crowns fully formed in situations from which they cannot be projected through the gums without previous separation of the teeth immediately in front and behind. It is also the case that the distance between the mental foramina of opposite sides increases after ossification of the symphysis of the lower jaw. ARTICULATIONS. The articulations by means of which the different parts of the skeleton are united may be divided into complete and incomplete. Complete joints are characterized by two cartilaginous surfaces which move one on the other, unconnected by intervening substance, but held together by ligaments around. The structure of ligament and of articular cartilage has already been described. The breach of continuity between the articular cartilages is limited round about by synovial numhrane, and is itself called the synovial cavity, synovia or synovial fluid being the term applied to the substance which lubricates and gives a certain softness to the interior of the joint, without being in such quantity that any can be gathered. The synovicd membrane is continued from the margins of the articular surfaces to a certain slight extent on the periosteum, before being re- flected on the deep aspect of the ligaments and other surrounding parts to the margins of the opposed articular surfaces. It is also, in some instances, prolonged a certain w^ay on tendons or underneath muscle, resembling in such prolongations the separate bursae mucosae provided in different places for the gliding of muscles or integument on bone, and the theccte or separate synovial sheaths surrounding tendons bound down by fibrous bands. But the synovial membrane of a joint differs from such other pouches in not forming of itself a continuous shut sac. It is not continued over the surfaces of the articular cartilages, save only in the foetus, but is rather continuous with them. It is possessed of a network of bloodvessels, and these are continued for not more than the twentieth of an inch over the margins of the articular cartilages. The proper substance of the membrane is homogeneous, and characterized b}^ an abundance of oval nuclei with little or no protoplasm round them, and