332 THE MUSCLES. played when it is reflected with the skin. The upper and inner fibres are directed towards the frontal eminence ; the lower and outer fibres pass outwards to the middle of the margin of the orbit. The orbicularis closes the lids, draws down and smooths the skin of the forehead, and elevates that of the cheek. The palpebral portion, while <;losing the lids, probably presses against the wall of the lachrymal sac and •canaliculi, causing the tears to enter when pressure ceases. The tensor tarsi assists in the compression of the sac and forces the tears along the duct. The whole set of fibres described as corrugator supercilii draws the eyebrows and the skin of the region beneath the frontal eminence downwards and inwards. When the corrugator and frontalis act together rectangular farrows are produced, the inner portion of the eyebroAv is raised while the outer portion is depressed, and the transverse furrows of the outer part of the forehead which the occipitalis acting alone would produce are obliterated. The compressor naris, thin and triangular, arises under cover of the •elevator of the upper lip, from the superior maxillary bone between the canine fossa and the nasal margin. It spreads over the bridge of the nose into a subcutaneous aponeurosis common to it and its fellow of the oppo- site side. The pyramidalis nasi consists of a few fibres prolonged downwards from the inner part of the frontalis, to terminate in the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the compressor naris. The levator labii superioris alaeque nasi, pointed at its origin and broadening below, springs from the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and is partly inserted into the ala of the nose, and partly blended with the orbicular muscle of the lips. In its descent it crosses the compressor naris. The depressor alae nasi is a small irregular bundle of fibres closely connected with the compressor naris, passing from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla and the skin of the lip, partly to the ala and partly to the septum of the nose. The dilatatores naris, anterior and posterior, are two small indistinct «lips passing from the cartilage of the nose to the skin at the lateral margin of the nostril. Muscles of the lips. A number of muscles radiate towards the margins of the mouth, where their fibres becoming blended form an elliptical sheet, the orbicularis oris, which surrounds the aperture. The levator labii superioris, four-sided in outline, arises immediately below the margin of the orbit and above the infra-orbital foramen. Its fibres, passing among those of the orbicularis oris, are inserted into the skin of the upper lip. The zygomaticus minor, a small variable slip, passes from the anterior part of the malar bone to the skin of the lip. At its upper end it is •closely associated with the orbicularis muscle of the eyelids, at its lower with the elevator of the upper lip.