DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBEO-SPINAL AXIS. 633 DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO SPINAL AXIS. The cerebro-spinal axis, as already stated (p. 90), makes its first appear- ance as the epiblast of the medullary groove, and is soon converted into a cylinder by turning inwards of the margins. In the cord, while yet those margins are still in continuity with the epidermis beyond, there is a separate thickening formed in the fold of eversion on each side, and these thickenings remain in connection with the cord as ridges projecting outwards in each segment to form a pair of spinal ganglia, the sources of the sensory nerve-fibres, while the motor roots project from the cylinder Fig. 462.—Section of Texture of Human Embryo Cord, a, Germinal cells between inner ends of spongioblasts; b, columnar part of the spongioblasts; c, reticular or marginal zone formed by them ; d, neuroblast. (Cajal, after His.) Fig. 463.—Section of Cord of Chick of Third Day OF Incubation, a, Anterior root; b, posterior root; a, a, very young neuroblasts ; b', a more developed neuroblast, probably commissural; c, c, neuroblasts of anterior roots ; d, growth-cone of a commisural axis-cylinder; e, e', corpuscles of anterior nerve- roots, already with rudimentary dendrites; h, i, growth-cones of anterior roots; o, corpuscles of spinal ganglion. (Cajal.) in a more ventral position corresponding with their subsequent site of origin. The epiblast in the open medullary groove already consists of columnar epithelial cells whose deep extremities alternate with others; and after closure of the cylinder it thickens on each side, leaving the central canal linear in transverse section and bounded ventrally and dorsally by short cells. The lateral thickening is effected by elongation of the columnar cells or spongioblasts, and prolongation of each into branches which unite with similar branches of others to make a reticulum extending to the mesoblastic surface. This is the myelospongiwn of His, destined to form at least the foundation of the neuroglia. Between the columnar cells, close to the central canal, there are germinal cells in different stages of karyo- kinesis, giving rise, according to His, to the neuroblasts, cells with a large ovaP nucleus and an elongated process directed towards the place of emergence of the anterior root. By means of the chromate of silver method