249 DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. stant as distinct centres.^ The ossification of the root of the styloid process is distinct, appearing before birth, and can be traced upwards in various mammals at a late date to the point of attachment of the posterior process of the incus. The later elongation of the styloid process can often be seen in childhood as a separate centre. The squamous centre appears, like the other roof-bones, towards the end of the second month. The tympanic centre appears in the third month in the form of a delicate ring imperfect above. It becomes united before birth to the squamous; but its most extensive development is later, and takes place in an out- ward direction. This outward extension is completed at first in front and behind, leaving for a time, in young skulls, a gap in the floor of the external auditory meatus. The ethmoid begins to ossify in the lateral masses from scattered and irregular nuclei in the fifth month of foetal life. About a year after birth ossification commences in the base of the crista galli, and extends in the vertical plate and outwards in the cribriform. As a general rule, in mammals, the cribriform plate appears to be formed altogether in this way; but in the human subject it makes rapid progress while even the upper edge of the central plate is imperfectly ossified, and it has separ- ate nuclei which may be counted as common to it and the lateral masses. The superior maxillary begins early to ossify, being, it is alleged, pre- ceded only by the clavicle and lower jaw. The ossific bars radiate from a position external to the nasal notch. It has long been a subject of dispute whether the intermaxillary part has a separate centre of ossifica- tion, and recent observers have exhibited specimens to show it as a separate bone up to the fifth month ; but it is granted that the anterior wall of the sockets of the incisor teeth is ossified from the superior maxillary proper. In connection with this it may be noted that the •outer incisor teeth lie in front of the palatal cleft which limits the inter- maxillary part behind, and have their sockets in other animals wholly formed by the intermaxillary bone; and yet, when developed in cases of <^left palate, they are external to the cleft. In completely cleft palate the intermaxillaries are developed in the mesial process in continuity with the vomer. 2 ^ Kerckring {Spicilegium Anatomicum, 1870, pp. 222, 223), whose description in the original Latin is transcribed by Huxley {Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, 1864), <lescribes correctly the nucleus of the petrous, and adds that in the fifth month three other nuclei appear in the mastoid region. Huxley curiously misinterprets Kerckring, alleging the three additional centres to include the petrous, which is mentioned and figured by Kerckring as distinct from them when these were seen separate. There is no real ground in human anatomy for the expressions 2^'^o-otic, ■epiotic, and -opisthotic, which took rise in Huxley's description ; biit this is not the place to discuss how erroneous they are in comparati^'e anatomy. - Comparative anatomy favours the view maintained by some that the intermaxil- lary elements have a twofold source, one related to the maxillary lobe, and the other to the fronto-nasal. I long ago {Phil. Trans., 1862) pointed out that throughout the vertebrata there are to be distinguished the lateral element and mesial palatine