15 THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. Fig. 10. — Fibres from ligamentum nuchae of Horse, from a long-kept specimen. They present serial transverse cracks on one side. of the tissue. The fibres then take a straight course in parallel bundles; and, when it is sought to separate them, they are found to be netted together, so that they cannot be thoroughly indi- vidualized. Transverse sections bring out the netted arrangement, short blocks of thick fibres being seen under the microscope, connected by thinner hands, Avhich, being pressed out of their original position, tend to curl up. So also by teasing out yellow- elastic tissue the torn liberated ends curl up; but the curling is produced by the manipulation. The thick fibres are not of uniform firmness; and in yellow-elastic fibrous tissue, which has been kept for a length of time and frequently stretched, they tend to give way on one side, exhibiting closely set transverse cracks, reminding one of india-rubber tubes long in use. The ligamenta subflava uniting the laminae of the vertebrae consist of yellow-elastic fibrous tissue. The only other example of this tissue in the human subject is the crico-thyroid mem- brane, and even it has a larger amount of white fibres intermixed with the yellow. But in quadru- peds the largest mass of this substance is the liga- mentinn nuchae, and in animals with heavy viscera, like the ox, the sheep, and the horse, there is a sheet of it superficial to the muscular wall of the abdomen. The nucleated corjniscles found in the connective tissues may be broadly distinguished into two kinds—the migratory or unwalled, and the branched or walled. The migrator?/ or amoeboid corpuscles or leucocytes are some of them identical with those found in the circulation, which, as has been already described, are capable of leaving the vessels and worming their way into the tissues; others are flattened out and have irregular forms, with a tendency to send out processes, and have the nucleus oval. Every stage of gradation exists from the one of these forms to the other, and there seems no reason whatever to doubt that the larger and flatter are derived from the smaller and rounder, and in turn pass into corpuscles, walled and branched. The walled and branched corpuscles are those to which the expression connective-tissue corpuscles is usually confined. They have a variable number of branches which sometimes anastomose with the branches of other corpuscles, but more frequently taper away into linear processes or tails. The most common form of all is the spindle-shaped corpuscle with two tails elongated in opposite directions, and such corpuscles are seen in all gradations of development from unwalled corpuscles. Oval nuclei without protoplasm occur in certain modifications of the con nective tissues. They are found in homogeneous matrix, e.g. in synovial membranes and in the fine sheaths of the primitive bundles of nerves.