DEEP MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 865 The external intertransverse muscles in the loins lie in morpholoi;ical series with the levatores costarum and the external intercostal muscles in the thoracic region, and with the posterior intertransverse muscles and the rectus capitis lateralis in the neck. The anterior intertransverse muscles in the neck are in series below with the internal intercostal muscles of the thorax, and above with the rectus capitis anticus minor muscle. The internal intertransverse muscles {infertnmsversales mcdiaJes) of the loins are represented in the thoracic region probably by the inter- transverse ligaments, and are not represented in the neck. Deep fascia of the back. In the thoracic region the deep muscles of the back are covered posteriorly by a delicate layer of fascia, the vertebral fascia, which extends outwards from the spines to the ribs beyond the angles and blends with the intercostal fascia. Above, it passes on the deep surface of the superior serratus and becomes blended with the deep fascia of the neck; below, it is continuous with the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis. The lumbar aponeurosis. Under this name three layers of fascia are described. The posterior layer, a strong aponeurotic sheet, is attached to the lumbar and sacral spines and to the posterior third of the iliac crest. In its lower part it becomes blended with the tendon of the erector spinae. At its outer margin it joins the middle layer and forms with it a single sheet from which a portion of the transversalis abdominis muscle is continued. In crossing outwards it covers posteriorly the deep muscles of the back and gives origin to the serratus inferior and a portion of the latissimius dorsi. The middle layer springs from the tips of the lumbar transverse processes and is attached above to the lower border of the last rib, and below to the ilio-lumbar ligament and the iliac crest. It passes outwards in front of the deep muscles of the back, and at the outer border of the erector spinae is joined by the posterior layer. The anterior layer is a more delicate sheet of fascia which covers the quadratus lum- borum, and is partly blended at the outer margin of the muscle with the conjoined middle and posterior layers and partly continued into the fascia transversalis. THE MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The intercostal muscles. In each interspace are found two layers of muscular fibres, oblique in direction, forming the external and internal intercostal muscles. Neither layer extends from end to end of the space, the external being deficient in front, the internal behind. For some distance in each space the intercostal vessels and nerves run forwards between the muscles, but near the front they sink into the substance of the inner layer. The external intercostals are formed of fibres which pass from al)0\e downwards and forwards. Each muscle springs from the lower margin of a rib and is inserted into the upper margin of the rib below. The