200 THE SKELETON. The scapula undoubtedly corresponds with the ilium. It extends in a dorsal direction from the shoulder-joint, its blade is covered by dorsal muscles, and from the blade there passes to the surface the spine, ending at its ventral extremity in the acromion. The ilium, in like manner, extends in a dorsal direction from the hip-joint, and its only superficial part is the crest, ending ventrally at the anterior superior spinous process. The clavicle stretches ventrally from the acromion towards the middle line, and, in like manner, Poupart's ligament stretches ventrally towards the middle line from the anterior superior spinous process. The coracoid is in monotremata and non-mammalian vertebrates a distinct bone extending ventrally from the shoulder-joint, in continuity with the blade of the scapula; and in both monotremata and other animals another element lies at the same depth, proserial to the coracoid, namely, the precoracoid. In the lower limb two deep elements are, in like manner, found on the ventral aspect of the hip-joint, namely, the ischium and OS pubis, the os pubis being proserial to the ischium, and therefore corresponding with the precoracoid of monotremata, while the ischium is homologous with the coracoid. The femur corresponds obviously with the humerus; but no one seems to have noted what is nevertheless evident on comparison of early stages of development, that the outer epicondyle of the humerus and the patellar surface of the femur are similarly situated from their earliest development, being placed on the aspect furthest from the mesial plane of the body, and continuous with the dorsum of the embryo. In the forearm the radius is the proserial element, and the ulna the retroserial; while in the leg the tibia is the proserial element, and the fibula the retroserial. In the monotremata the head of the fibula is prolonged upwards in the same manner as the olecranon of the ulna. The thumb and the great toe are the proserial digits of hand and foot respectively. The metatarsal articulations of the four anterior tarsal bones correspond very closely with the metacarpal articulations of the lower range of carpal bones. The pisiform bone is much more developed in many animals than in the human subject; and in the bear it presents an epiphysis exactly similar to another on the tuberosity of the calcaneum, while the bulk of the calcaneum is seen to correspond obviously with the combined pisiform and cuneiform bones of the carpus. . DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMB BONES. The skeleton in both the upper and lower limb makes its first appearance, I find, as a single block of cartilage distinct from the axial skeleton; and from this all the bones are developed, the clavicle excepted. In the upper limb, the scapula, humerus, forearm and hand can all be distinguished, forming a continuous mass of embryonic cartilage in which lines after- wards appear in the situation of the joints; and similarly, in the lower