90 GENEEAL ANATOMY. blood-corpuscles as well as to the walls of bloodvessels; and these extend inwards and form the area vasculosa. Hertwig so far adopts a view previously put forward by His as to consider this growth independent of the parietal and visceral layers of the mesoblast, and that it is the sole source of the blood, connective tissues and skeleton; and he gives it the name mesenchyma. According to this, it is only the epithelia, glands, bounding surfaces, nervous system and muscles that are developed from the three recognized layers, Avhile the bloodvessels, connective tissues and skeleton have a peripheral origin. Certainly it is a fact and worthy of note that the blood and structures connected with the development of the blood appear in a centripetal manner contrasting with the centri- fugal origin of the form and special organs of the embryo. The medullary folds, as already indicated, are tw^o elevations of epiblast united in front, which elongate backwards and turn over to unite one Fig. 92.—Transverse Section of Ovum of Triton passing through the blastopore h. 7ni and m'^, Parietal and visceral walls of meso- blastic sac ; e, epiblast ; }), yelk-plug ; ?/, yelk- cells ; h, hypoblast ; i, intestine. (Hertwig.) Fig. 93.—Transverse Section through a Human Germinal Area with open medullary groove, in the vicinity of the neurenteric canal. e and h, Epiblast and hypoblast; and in-, parietal and visceral laminae of mesoblast; /, lip of primitive groove, g. (Hertwig, from Graf Spee.) Fig. 94.—Embryo Chick and Germinal Area during first day of hatching. Fresh, vitelline membrane not re- moved, a, Anterior limiting sulcus ; m, united medullary folds ; pr, primitive streak and groove. with the other in the middle line and convert the furrow between them, the medullary groove, into a closed cylinder, the rudimentary cerebro-spinal -axis. Immediately after closure, the fore part of the cylinder exhibits three dilatations, the first, second and third cerebral vesicles, which go to form the brain, while, on the sides of the foremost, two lateral lobes appear, the primary optic vesicles, destined to take part in the formation of the eyes.