435 THE AXILLARY ARTERY. important are the acromio-thoracic, the long thoracic, the subscapular, and the posterior and anterior circumflex arteries. (1) The acromio-thoracic artery, a short stem, arises from the front of the first part of the artery. Its branches, passing forwards, pierce the costo- coracoid membrane and supply the two pectoral muscles and the surrounding parts, and are divided, from their distribution, into four sets, the thoracic, claricular, acromial, and humeral; one of the last named, a vessel of mod- erate size, descends for some distance between the deltoid and the pectoralis major, by the side of the cephalic vein. (2) The long thoracic or external mammary artery arises from the second part of the main trunk, and is directed downwards and inwards along the lower border of the pectoralis minor muscle. Its branches supply the muscles of the anterior wall of the axilla, the mamma, and the axillary connective tissue and glands. (3) The subscapular artery, usually the largest branch, arises from the third part of the axillary trunk, and is directed downwards and backwards, along the outer border of the scapula towards the lower angle; its branches ramify in the axilla, supply the muscles of the posterior wall, and take part in an anastomosis on both surfaces of the scapula with those of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The most important is the dorsal branch, which is usually larger than the continua- tion of the vessel. It arises near the commencement of the parent trunk, and is directed backwards through the triangular space bounded by the long head of the triceps, the teres major, and the margin of the scapula; it passes across the axillary border of the bone in a groove, and, under cover of the teres minor, gains the dorsum; some of its branches reach the lower angle. (4) The posterior circumflex artery, a considerable branch, arises im- mediately below the subscapular artery, and is directed backwards, with the circumflex nerve, through the quadrilateral space bounded by the humerus, the long head of the triceps, and the teres muscles. Continuing its course it winds round the back of the humerus, and breaks up into numerous branches which supply the deltoid and teres muscles and the shoulder- joint, and anastomose with those of the anterior circumflex, acromio- thoracic, and superior profunda arteries, (5) The anterior circumflex artery, a small vessel, arises a little below the posterior branch, and winds round the front of the humerus on the deep surface of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles; a slender branch runs upwards in the bicipital groove to the joint, and others ramify in the muscles and anastomose with the branches of the posterior circumflex artery. Anastomoses of the branches of the axillary artery. The difl'erent branches anastomose very freely with one another and with the upper intercostal arteries. From above the suprascapular anastomoses with the acromio-thoracic, from below the superior profunda forms free connections