388 THE MUSCLES. the obliquity of the movement, with the result that by the simultaneous actions of the two muscles a direct upward movement of the cornea takes place. The levator palpebrae is closely associated by direct connection through the fascia, and in its nerve supply, with the superior rectus, and the upper eyelid is raised as the pupil is turned upwards. The inferior rectus, like the superior, is directed somewhat outwards, and the obliquity of its action is corrected by the superior oblique muscle. Pulled on in the dead subject the oblique muscles would produce an oblique movement of rotation of the eyeball, the superior depressing and abducting the cornea, the inferior elevating and abducting. By the combination of different muscles various degrees of oblique movement of the cornea may be pro- duced. The amount of upward movement which actually takes place has been calculated as about 34 degrees, downward 57 degrees, outward 42 degrees, inward 45 degrees. SUPRA-HYOID MUSCLES. Three subsidiary groups of muscles are treated together under this heading—(a) a set connecting the hyoid bone with the lower jaw and with the styloid and mastoid processes; (b) a set passing from the hyoid bone and styloid process to the tongue, the extrinsic muscles of the tongue ; (c) a muscle from the styloid process to the pharynx and larynx. They present relations to the vessels and nerves of the upper part of the neck, which can be conveniently studied together. The digastric muscle is formed of two fleshy bellies and an intervening tendon. The posterior belly, longer than the anterior, arises from the digastric fossa of the mastoid process, and is directed forwards and downwards to the tendon. The anterior belly, broader than the posterior, springs from an oval area on the lower margin of the inferior maxilla, close to the symphysis, and is directed downwards and slightly backwards. The intervening tendon, nearly two inches in length, is placed immediately above the hyoid bone, to which, at the junction of the body with the great cornu, it is bound by aponeurotic fibres. At its origin from the digastric fossa the muscle is deeply placed under the other muscles connected with the mastoid process; the intervening tendon is crossed by a portion of the fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle; in the rest of its area the muscle is superficial. Absence of one or other of the bellies has been noted ; the anterior belly is occasionally double, and in rare cases the posterior belly is double. The mylo-hyoid, a thin, four-sided muscle, rises from the mylo hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. The more posterior fibres are inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone, the more anterior into a median fibrous raphe, which extends from the hyoid bone to the sym- physis. The most anterior fibres are very short. The anterior belly of the digastric partly covers the under or superficial surface of the muscle.