147 THE CARPUS. than the inner, while the inner is the broader from above downwards. The upper and under surfaces are quadrilateral, the upper convex, the under concave from before backwards. Superiorly it articulates with the radius, externally with the scaphoid, internally with the cuneiform, and inferiorly with the os magnum, while the margin between the inferior and internal surfaces is flattened into a narrow surface which comes in contact with the unciform bone. The anterior surface is larger both transversely and vertically than the posterior. The cuneiform or pyramidal bone, presents a flat articular surface externally, corresponding with the inner surface of the lunar bone, while internally it is rough, rounded and smaller. Its inferior surface is articular in its whole extent, resting in contact with the unciform bone, while, on the superior surface there is a smaller convex articular surface extending inwards a variable distance from the edge of contact with the lunar bone, Fig. 151.—Dorsal View of Right Carpal Bonks, a, Scaphoid ; h, semilunar; c, cunei- form ; d, pisiform ; e, trapezium ; /, trapezoid ; g, os magnum ; h, unciform. to glide against the triangular fibro-plate. The anterior surface is specially distinguished from the posterior by a flat circular articular surface on its inner half for the pisiform bone. The pisiform bone, as its name implies, is a rounded body like a pea. It has only one articular surface, which corresponds with that on the front of the cuneiform bone, and from this it droops a little in a downward and outward direction. It gives attachment above to the flexor carpi ulnaris, below to two ligaments extending to the unciform and fifth meta- carpal bones, and externally to the anterior annular ligament. The trapezium supports the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and articu- lates with it by a large saddle-shaped surface, concave from side to side and convex from before backwards, looking downwards and outwards. Anteriorly, it presents a prominent ridge for attachment of the anterior annular ligament, and, internal to this, a deep groove occupied by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle. The posterior surface is broad, and, as well as the anterior and outer surfaces, is non-articular. The inner