ABSORBENT SYSTEM. Co two save that which is topographical. Lymphatics begin in the textures, and bring back from them a clear fluid termed lymph. The lacteals are the lymphatics of the mucous membrane of the small intestine, and receive substances brought from the intestinal cavity into the interior of the villi, by the absorbent action of living corpuscles. It is principally by this means that fatty substances are introduced into the system. These substances being in the form of exceedingly small globules or molecules give to the watery fluid which conveys them a milky appearance, and on that account the fluid is called chyle, and the vessels Avhich contain it are termed lacteals. Lymph is a clear coagulable fluid, containing nucleated corpuscles. The corpuscles are most abundant in lymph which has traversed lymphatic glands, and correspond generally in character with colourless blood- corpuscles; but many of them are smaller and with more distinct nucleus. Chyle is simply lymph with addition of fatty and other substances derived from the contents of the intestine. Lymphatic vessels, including lacteals, may be divided into three sets, viz., capillaries, simple walled tributaries, and trunks The capillary B Fig. 62.—Lymphatics. simple walled tributary. A, Capillary; B lymphatics are minute vessels, forming networks like the capillary bloodvessels, but, both as respects the vessels them- selves and the size of the meshes, much more irregular in size and shape. They have no tunica adventitia, but are simply spaces lined with endothelium. The endothelium itself difl'ers from that of blood-capillaries in the scales of which it is composed having characteristic undulating margins. The simple walled tributaries receive the lymph from the capillary lymphatics, and diff'er from them in being considerably larger, in having endothelial scales more elongated and less undulating in outline, and in having valves. The stronger walls and the presence of valves indicate the presence of a supporting membrane. The lymphatic trunks are vessels with three walls, like veins and arteries, viz., a tunica intima of endothelium supported by fibrous tissue, a tunica media of circular muscular fibres, and a tunica adventitia of white and yellow-elastic fibres, in bundles taking all directions. They are all supplied with valves, consisting of white fibrous pouches in pairs, like those of veins; and they yield opposite the valves, so as to present when distended a somewhat beaded appearance, the valves succeeding one another with much greater frequency than those of veins. In the limbs, head and neck, and walls of the trunk, the lymphatic trunks are arranged in deep and superficial sets, the deep sets accompanying E