517 THE ULNAR NERVE. which muscle it is chiefly distributed; one or two branches, however, pass through the pectoralis minor and terminate in the pectoralis major. Near its origin the trunk of the nerve is joined by a considerable <3ommunicating branch from the external anterior thoracic nerve. The musculo-cutaneous (external cutaneous) nerve (Fig. 382) arises from the outer cord in the upper part of the axilla. It is directed down- wards and outwards, pierces the coraco-brachialis, and descends in the upper arm between the biceps and the brachialis anticus; in this portion of its course it supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles. It becomes subcutaneous a Httle above the level of the bend of the elbow at the outer edge of the biceps tendon, and immediately afterwards divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, both of which are entirely sensory in their distribution. They supply the integument of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the radial side of the fore- arm. The posterior, the smaller, reaches as far as the wrist; the anterior communicates above the wrist with the radial nerve, and distributes its terminal filaments to the skin over the thenar eminence. The lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) arises from the inner cord at about the same level as the internal anterior thoracic nerve; it passes downwards and inwards, crossing at first behind the axillary vein, to pierce the fascia in the upper third of the arm. It supplies the integument of the inner and posterior region of the arm, reaching as far as the elbow, and gradually passing backwards as it descends. It is of variable size and ramifies in front of the intercosto- humeral nerve, with which it is closely associated in its distribution, the two stems being usually connected in the axilla by communicating branches. The internal cutaneous nerve takes origin from the inner cord, immediately below the nerve of Wrisberg, and descends by the inner and anterior margin of the artery to about the middle of the upper arm, where it pierces the fascia and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. In the axilla it detaches one or two small branches which supply the integument of the inner region of the upper part of the arm. The anterior and posterior terminal branches descend along the anterior and posterior borders respectively of the inner side of the forearm, supplying the skin as far as the level of the wrist. The anterior branch frequently communicates, a little above the wrist, with a cutaneous twig of * the ulnar nerve. The ulnar nerve (Figs. 382-386), a trunk of large size, takes origin from the inner cord, immediately below the internal cutaneous nerve. It descends at first by the inner side of the main artery between it and the vein. In the upper third of the arm it gradually separates from the artery and passes backwards to pierce the internal intermuscular septum. Con- tinuing its course it descends behind the septum, passes between the inner epicondyle and the olecranon, and enters the forearm between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It then descends in a straight line upon the sur-