780 THE EEPRODUCTIVE OEGANS. ^re called the crura. In front they terminate under cover of the closely adherent glans in two blunt extremities like the tips of two fingers held together. The septum is strongest towards the root, and consists of bundles passing directly between the dorsal and lower surfaces with narrow clefts alleged to afford communication between the right and left corpora cavernosa. The circumferent fibrous walls form a thick, white and smooth covering, with its bundles in large part longitudinally arranged, and con- taining a considerable quantity of elastic fibres. From the deep surface of the walls, rounded and flattened trabeculae extend into the interior of each corpus cavernosum, forming the supporting part of its structure, while the cavities between them intercommunicate freely and are blood-sinuses. The cavernous artery from the internal pudic trunk passes right up through the middle of each cavernous body, and the dorsal artery of the penis gives branches as well. The arterial twigs ramify in the trabeculae, and are continued into capillaries which open into the sinuses. Some of the small arteries project sinuously from the walls of the sinuses in a curling fashion, and constitute the helicine arteries (of J. Miiller). The blood escapes by veins falling into the internal pudic and the dorsal vein of the penis. Corpus cavernosvim/ Corpus spongiosum Fig. G]0.—Terminal Parts of Penis. A, Corpora cavernosa dissected away from the glans and corpus cavernosum. B, Longitudinal section. The corpus spongiosum is an erectile structure surrounding the urethra after its escape from the pelvis. It begins between the crura penis on the surface of the triangular ligament, and occupies the groove on the under surface of the corpora cavernosa as far as the glans, with which it is continuous. It is dilated at its commencement, where it is covered by the acceleratores urinae or bulbo-cavernosi muscles, and reaches back to their origin from the central point of the perineum. This part is called the hulh, and extends nearly half an inch further back in the perineum than the urethra which it surrounds. The average thickness of the erec- tile covering given to the urethra by the corpus spongiosum is about the eighth of an inch. Both the erectile tissue and the sheath encircling it are much weaker than those of the corpora cavernosa. The corpus spongiosum receives its arterial supply from the artery of the bulb, given off" by the internal pudic, and from a smaller subsequent branch of the same trunk.