THE MUSCLES. 330 periosteum, being separated only by a delicate tissue devoid of fat and allowing free gliding movement. The occipito-frontalis muscle is formed of two portions, an anterior and posterior, connected with one another by the intervening epicranial aponeurosis. The occipital portion (occipitalis) arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and occasionally to a small extent from the adjoining portion of the temporal bone. Its fibres, between one and two inches in length, pass into the epicranial aponeurosis. The frontal portion (frontalis), larger and paler than the occipitalis,, rises in a convex line from the epicranial aponeurosis some distance in front of the coronal suture. The fibres terminate in the subcutaneous tissue- of the root of the nose and of the eyebrows. The muscles of opposite sides converge as they descend, and finally come into contact with one another. By the action of these muscles the scalp is drawn forwards and backwards, the eyebrows elevated, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse lines. In most cases they are only partially under the control of the will. They present frequent variations in the extent of their development. The attollens auriculam (auricularis superior), a thin fan-shaped sheet of fibres, rises from the lateral portion of the epicranial aponeurosis. It is inserted into the upper part of the auricle in the region of the anterior part of the helix and antihelix. The attrahens auriculam (auricularis anterior), a small thin bundle hardly separate from the anterior edge of the attollens, passes from the epicranial aponeurosis to the auricle in the region of the anterior part of the helix. The retrahens auriculam {auricularis posterior) consists of two or three small bundles of fibres passing from the mastoid process to the auricle in the region of the posterior part of the concha. In most cases the auricular muscles are not under the direct control of the will. The orbicularis palpebrarum is a thin sheet of muscular fibres covering the surface of and surrounding the eyelids. The central or palpebral portion takes origin from the tendo palpebrarum or internal tarsal liga- ment, a narrow band about one-sixth of an inch in length, springing from the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and extending outwards in front of the lachrymal groove. The fibres, which are pale and thin, lie upon the surface of the tarsal membranes in the lids, and are connected exter- nally with the external tarsal ligament, a less defined band than the internal, attached to the malar bone. The peripheral portion of the muscle, much broader than the central and formed of coarser bundles of fibres, is variable in size and largely blended at its margins with other muscles. It springs from the basal portion of the internal tarsal ligament, the internal orbital process of the