THE BEAIN. 602 mesial plane. Internal to the superior root of the fifth nerve, beneath the aqueduct of Sylvius, are placed the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves. A few of the fibres of the third nerve cross the middle line from the nucleus of the opposite side. All the fibres of the fourth nerve, after passing up round the aqueduct of Sylvius, decussate in the middle line of the valve of Vieussens, close to its attachment to the corpora quadri- gemina. III. THE CEREBELLUM AND ANTERIOR VELUM. The cerebellum is united to the rest of the brain by three pairs of peduncles and the valve of Vieussens, all in immediate contiguity, so as to be cut across in one continuous section. The superior peduncles are somewhat flattened bands passing upwards to the posterior quadrigeminal bodies, and are joined together across the middle line by a thin lamina, of Fig. 435.—Valve of Vieussens, or anterior velum, with the corpora quadrigemina, optic thalami and pineal body. The laminae of the cerebellum are removed. the valve of Vieussens. The middle peduncles are continuous with the pons Varolii, and the inferior peduncles are apparently continuous with the restiform bodies; but it is to be noted that the restiform bodies include the funiculi cuneati, whose fibres are not directly continued into the cerebellum, while the inferior peduncle includes fibres from the olivary body of the opposite side which are not part of the restiform body. The valve of Vieussens {anterior medullary velum) may be at once described, though not counted a part of the cerebellum. It is a thin but strong lamina about an inch in length, easily split in the middle, and consisting mainly of longitudinal fibres. It passes posteriorly into the cerebellum, and anteriorly into the corpora quadrigemina, while it is attached on each side to the inner edge of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum. It is clothed with pia mater on its upper surface ; its under surface forms the fore part of the roof of the fourth ventricle. On its fore part, close behind the corpora quadrigemina, the roots of the fourth