THE THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVE. THE THIRD OR OCULO MOTOR NERVE. The third nerve (Fig. 403) is distributed to all the muscles of the orbit with the exception of the external rectus and the superior oblique, and through its connection with the lenticular ganglion supplies the ciliary muscle and the sphincter of the pupil. The nerve springs by several bundles from the inner side of the crus cerebri, immediately in front of the pons. It passes forwards, crossing below the posterior cerebral artery, and pierces the dura mater between the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. It then runs forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, and, on gaining the sphenoidal fissure, breaks up into an upper and a lower division; these, passing between the heads of the external rectus muscle, enter the orbit separately, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth intervening between them The upper division, supplies the levator palpebrae and the superior rectus. The lower division furnishes, near the back of the orbit, the short root of the lenticular ganglion, and afterwards divides into three branches distributed respectively to the inferior rectus, the internal rectus, and the inferior oblique. In passing along the wall of the cavernous sinus the third nerve forms com- munications with the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and occasionally with the sixth nerve and the ophthalmic division of the fifth. The nucleus of origin of the third nerve lies immediately ventral to the aqueduct of Sylvius, and extends from the level of the posterior margin of the anterior quadrigeminal body forwards into the region of the hinder part of the third ventricle. The great majority of the root-fibres from the nucleus pass to the nerve of the same side, but a few of the most posterior undergo decussation. THE FOURTH, THE PATHETIC, OR TROCHLEAR NERVE. The fourth (Fig. 402), the smallest of the cranial nerves, supplies the superior oblique muscle of the orbit. It springs from the anterior and outer part of the valve of Vieussens, and passes outwards across the superior cere- bellar peduncle, and then bends forwards, outwards, and downwards round the outer side of the crus cerebri, between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. It pierces the dura mater at the free edge of the tentorium, immediately behind the posterior clinoid process, and continues its course along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, between the third nerve and the ophthalmic division of the fifth. In this part of its course it receives a communicating branch from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and from the ophthalmic division of the fifth. Bending upwards and crossing the outer side of the third nerve it reaches the sphenoidal fissure, through which it passes. It enters the orbit above and internal to the other nerves, runs forwards and inwards above the levator palpebrae, and terminates by entering the upper surface of the superior oblique muscle.