THE MUSCLES. 394 each side is a strong band of fibres, with which some involuntary muscular fibres are mixed, passing from the body of the pubis to the anterior part of the base of the bladder; the lateral true ligament, sweeping from the wall along the line of reflection, is continued backwards from the anterior, than which it is, however, much weaker in structure. Between the anterior ligaments of opposite sides the fascia is thin, and, viewed from above, depressed into a hollow. The portion of fascia which passes down- wards under the base of the bladder in the male surrounds very closely the prostate gland, forming a sheath for it, and gives off" a layer which incloses the vesiculae seminales. The sheath of the prostate is very strong, and is mainly derived from the fibres of the under surface of the anterior true vesical ligaments. In front the weak fibres, passing back to the prostate from Sacrum Rectum Recto-vesical fascia Bladder Prostatic venous plexus _ Prostate Prostatic sinus and \ ejaculatory ducts / Colles' fascia. Deep layer of triangular ligament.- Superficial layer of .. triangular ligament I Bnlb - Sacro-sciatic ligaments Spine of ischium _Obturator fascia Levator ani Anal fascia Obturator membrane Obturator externus Os pubis (inferior ramus) Crus penis -- Constrictor urethrae * - Deep transverse muscle .. Cowper's gland Fig. 306.—Diagram of Section of Pelvis, dividing longitudinally the prostatic portion of the urethra. the symphysis, are pierced by the dorsal vein of the penis, which enters a plexus of veins lying between the proper capsule of the gland and its sheath from the recto-vesical fascia; the veins lie at the base and the lower part of the sides of the organ, but over the rest of the area the sheath and the capsule are closely adherent. Behind the bladder, between it and the rectum, the layers of recto-vesical fascia of opposite sides in the male subject meet in the middle line, but in the female they pass on to the vaginal wall. Further back, on the side of the rectum, the fascia splits, about three inches from the anus, one portion passing upwards and the other downwards, both blending with the coats of the bowel. The attachment to the rectum is sometimes named ligament of the rectum. The obturator fascia is attached below to the bone along the lower margin of the obturator internus muscle; behind, it is attached to the great and