201 DEVELOPMENT OF THE LIMB BONES. limb, the pelvis, thigh, leg and foot are from one original mass. The radius and ulna are at first similar in size at the wrist; they are bent forwards at the elbow, the radius in continuity with the front of the humerus, and the ulna with the back part. I find also that the tibia and fibula are, at the knee, bent similarly forwards towards the head of the embryo, and that the heel at an early period projects on the fibular or retroserial margin of the foot. Among the carpal cartilages at first laid down there has been noted one corresponding to the os centrale found in many mammals. It has been found to disappear by fusion with the scaphoid, usually before the end of the third month (p. 146, footnote). Ossification. Upper limb. The clavicle is of all the bones in the body that in which osseous deposit first appears. This occurs when the embryo is about two-thirds of an inch long and is supposed to be about six weeks old. I find the clavicle existing as a cartilage prior to the commencement of ossification, though it is often described as of purely membranous origin. It is allowed to be cartilaginous at its extremities in later development. About the eighteenth year or later an epiphysis appears which is incor- porated with the shaft by the twenty-fifth year. The sccqmla begins to ossify about the eighth week from a centre at the neck. The coracoid process shows an osseous centre of its own in the first year, and is joined to the rest of the bone about the twelfth or fourteenth. A separate little centre, called subcoracoid, begins in contact with the ununited coracoid centre immediately above the bicipital tubercle, and may extend thence over the whole glenoid cavity. Also a separable scale may occur on the coracoid at the attachment of the coraco-clavicular ligament, and a. distinct epiphysis at the tip of the process. The acromion is in part or altogether ossified from one or two separate centres which do not appear till near puberty, but soon spread to form an epiphysis which retains its independence for a considerable time. Along the base of the scapula a narrow cartilaginous strip corre- sponding with the suprascapular cartilage of hoofed mammals continues through adolescence. It becomes ossified from two centres, one at the inferior angle, and the other comm^encing opposite the inner end of the spine, both of them appearing later than the acromial centres and uniting to form an epiphysis distinguishable till the twenty-fifth year. Fig. 191.—Young Scapula. a, Acromion with epiphysis ap- parently formed f rom'two centres of ossification ; b, coracoid as yet ununited and, below it, the glen- oid cavity covered hy an extension of the subcoracoid centre; c, small epiphysis at tip of coracoid; d, position of occasional small centre; e, suprascapular strip of cartilage.