GENERAL ANATOMY. 30 been described; and Kolliker affirms that there is always air present in connection with them, showing that they have not been completely cal- €ified but undergo shrivelling in the dry bone. Periosteum, vessels and nerves. Periosteum, the membrane surround- ing bone, is a fibrous structure containing bloodvessels and nerves, and presenting a layer of osteoblasts on its deep surface. But, at least on the shafts of long bones, it is a more regular and complex structure than seems yet to have been described by authors. Superficially it presents a strong white fibrous layer which swells up with acetic acid. This layer, when the bone is free from tendinous attachments, is disposed longitudinally, but may be strengthened by transverse or felted fibres over it. In it small arteries and veins ramify in company. More deeply there are thin sheets of firm tissue, not elastic, but not affected by acetic acid, exhibiting long fusiform corpuscles disposed in parallel lines. They are directed obliquely, those of one layer decussating with those of the other; and between the layers is a continuous capillary network with meshes similar to those made in the compact bone by the Haversian canals. Occupying the capillary meshes there are numerous irregularly-shaped corpuscles, and lastly, on the deep side of the decussating sheets, is the osteoblastic layer, which on an adult bone may present an appearance like an epithelium, while, on a growing bone the corpuscles may be two or three deep. Schafer has figured a small artery, a large vein, a lymphatic, and a nerve in one section of a Haversian canal; but in the shafts and immedi- ately beneath the articular cartilages of the great bones of the limbs there is only one vessel in each Haversian canal. The vessels form a meshwork like the canals in which they lie, and though their walls are strengthened by longitudinal fibres, as are those of the deep layer of periosteum from which they come, they ought to be regarded as capillaries. A little con- sideration will show that any other conclusion is highly improbable. The network of Haversian canals is obviously for the nutrition of the osseous tissue around, but an artery and vein in company indicate the nutrition of a territory beyond. Nerves are easily seen in the superficial structure of the periosteum, and have been traced by Kolliker in company with the medullary and other arteries into the interior,- but there is no know- ledge of other distribution than to the vascular walls. Marrow is of two kinds, the yellow, filling medullary spaces of con- siderable size, and the red, occupying the smaller spaces in cancellated tissue. The yellow marrow owes its colour to adipose vesicles, and the red marrow owes its redness partly to blood and partly to corpuscles outside the bloodvessels. The supporting stroma is exceedingly slight, even the part in contact with the osseous walls, where it is sometimes distinguished as endosteum or medullary membrane and contains a larger number of bloodvessels to nourish the bone. The yellow marrow in wasted persons becomes gelatinous in appearance, and presents partially emptied fat-vesicles in very delicate stroma. Red marrow contains scattered