185 THE PELVIS. The dorsal sacro-iliac ligament (posferiur of books) is an extensive and strong mass of fibres descending from the rough and prominent area above the auricular surface of the ilium to end on the tubercles outside the posterior sacral foramina. Its fibres to the lower sacral vertebrae are longer than those to the first and second, and directed backwards. A terminal sacro-iliac ligament extends from the posterior inferior spine of the ilium to the lateral edge of the third and fourth sacral vertebrae. It is not to be confounded, as it usually is, with the dorsal ligament, from which it is distinct not only in function but in disposition, being separated from it by the space between the upper and lower posterior spines of the ilium—a space which is at the end of a channel on the dorsal aspect of the joint, in which no ligamentous fibres occur. The sacro-sciatic ligaments. These are large flat bands which form an important part of the wall of the pelvis. The great sacro-sciatic ligament arises broadly from the posterior inferior spine of the ilium, the side of the coccyx and the whole lateral border of the sacrum between. Its fibres are gathered together at the back of the ischial tuberosity and are inserted into its inner margin and that of the ramus of the ischium, the lower fibres going further forwards than the upper, and forming a projecting edge continuous with the obturator fascia. The small sacro-sciatic ligament arises from the greater part of the border of the sacrum in front of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and in close contact with it, and its fibres converge to be inserted into the tip of the spine of the ischium. It divides the space left between the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the innominate bone into an upper and a lower, called respectively the great and the small sacro-sciatic foramen ; the greater giving exit to the pyriformis muscle, with the gluteal artery and nerve above it, and the sciatic and pudic arteries and nerves below it; the smaller giving exit to the tendon of the obturator internus muscle and re-entrance to the pudic artery and nerve. The symphysis pubis, or interpubic disc, is an incomplete joint consisting of fibrous substance loosely disposed toward the centre, sometimes with an irregular space within it, especially in the female. The fibres of the disc take origin from the opposed surfaces covered in young adults with cartilage, and are arranged concentrically ; but they are inclosed by fibres attached to the surfaces around, and these are distinguished as superior, inferior, anterior and posterior, names so obviously erroneously applied that they cannot be recommended. Those which follow are at least more correct. The intrapelvic ligament is the shortest and least distinct from those of the disc ; the intercristal ligament is strong, attached to the inner parts of the crests; the pre-uretJmd is still thicker and, especially in the female, rounds the front of the subpubic arch; the intercrural ligament (anterior of books) occupies the surfaces between the lines of attachment of the fascia lata, and has therefore much longer fibres in the female than in the male, as has also the pre-urethral.