156 THE SKELETON. A, internal lateral ligament; c, point of contact of capitellum and radius. The internal lateral ligament arises from below and from behind the internal epicondyle of the humerus and its fibres spread out to be inserted along the inner edge of the great sigmoid cavity of the ulna, from its olecranal to its coronoid extremity. The anterior and posterior ligaments are membranous, and though they •complete the fibrous capsule of the elbow-joint, they have no share in determining its movements. The anterior ligament consists of vertical fibres descend- ing from above the coronoid and radial depressions of the humerus to the coronoid process of the ulna and the orbicular liga- ment. The posterior ligament consists of fibres which arise from the sides of the olecranon fossa of the humerus and are attached mostly to the olecranon process; but the uppermost of them arch across continuously, leaving above them a defi- ciency in the fibrous capsule, where the olecranon fits into the fossa of the humerus in extension. The synovial membrane lines the capsule and is prolonged up over the fossae of the humerus, in the neighbour- hood of which, especially of the olecranon fossa, it is thickened and exhibits pads of fat. It is also prolonged on the inside of the orbicular ligament and is loosely reflected below it, so as not to interfere with pronation and supination. The ligamentous union of the shafts of the radius and ulna is eff'ected by two structures:— The interosseous membrane consists of fibres directed obliquely downwards and inwards between the sharp adjacent borders of the radius and ulna, beginning a little below the bicipital tuberosity, and inferiorly lying well back between the bones as far as the lower articulation. The oblique ligament is a little band of fibres, not always present, which -descends from the outer and lower border of the rough surface beneath the -coronoid process of the ulna, and is attached to the inner border of the radius a little below the bicipital tuberosity. The inferior radio-ulnar articulation is a joint in which the lower articular surface of the ulna is opposed in its vertical part to the concave articular surface on the inside of the lower end of the radius, and in its terminal part to a triangular fibro-plate. The triangular fihro-plate^ or so-called fihro-cartilage, is attached by its base to the rectangular border separating the carpal surface of the radius from the ulnar surface, and by its apex to the ulna at the base of its styloid process. The synovial membrane and fibrous capsule are exceedingly loose, so as not to interfere with pronation or supination.