46 GENERAL ANATOMY. at first not a tenth of the breadth attained in the adult; but by the time of birth they have become much broader than they were. Regeneration. There seems good reason to doubt the existence of any power of reproduction in either striped or unstriped muscular fibre. After parturition, the unstriped fibres of the uterus undergo fatty de- generation; and in pregnancy new fibres can be seen in process of formation from the unwalled corpuscles in the connective tissue between the bundles. As a consequence of typhoid fever, striped muscular fibre may undergo both fatty and colloid degeneration, the striation disappearing and being replaced in the one case by granules, in the other by masses of waxy-looking substance filling the sarcolemma, while new fibres are seen passing through the stage of spindle-shaped corpuscles (Zenker). NERVOUS ELEMENTS. AYhile irritability would appear to be a universal property of the living elements of living bodies, it is the special office of the nervous system to bring the diff'erent parts of the body into relation one with another by conveying, through afferent nerves, irritation from different parts to nervous centres, and distributing from nervous centres stimulation, through efferent nerves, to tissues of different kinds, such as muscles and secreting glands. Structurally the two sets of nerve-fibres are indistinguishable, and even the functional distinction cannot be demonstrated in many visceral nerves. Nervous centres contain, in addition to nerve-fibres, nerve-corpuscles ; and these two elements, together with supporting substance, constitute the nervous system. Nerves form the communications both of one nervous centre with another, and of the different nervous centres with the organs which they supply. In the latter case they are called peripheral nerves or nerves of distribution, and terminate in different modes, which will be described with the microscopy of the different organs. The special elements of the nervous system, namely, nerve-fibres and nerve-corpuscles, are continuous one with the other; and every nerve- corpuscle is in itself a centre or, in some sense, a modifier of nervous action. Any collection of nerve-corpuscles, together with the nerve-fibres in connection with them, constitutes a ganglion. The simpler ganglia are distinct from one another, as in the sympathetic system, the branches of which are distributed in great part to the viscera; but the brain and spinal cord together form one great and complex organ, the cerebro-spinal axis, originating as a continuous axial structure, although portions of the brain containing nerve-corpuscles, and more or less separable from adjacent portions, are sometimes spoken of as cerebral ganglia. Supporting substance. In the cerebro-spinal axis, in which enormous numbers of nerve-fibres and nerve-corpuscles are closely aggregated, this is of a delicate and modified description, giving a soft and distinctive