245 MOVABLE ARTICULATIONS OF THE SKULL. is a band connected in the foetus with the perichondrium of Meckel's cartilage, but is not without ligamentous function. The stijlo-maxillary ligament is merely a band of fascia extending from the styloid process to the angle of the lower jaw, between the parotid and submaxillary glands. Mooements of the jaw. The principal movements are of a hinge kind, opening and shutting the mouth, but differ from those of other hinge- joints in that the condyle is moved forwards out of the glenoid cavity on to the convexity in front, every time that the mouth is opened, and retreats in closing it, as can be felt on placing a finger in front of one's own ear. In accomplishing these movements the upper and lower compartments of the joint take different parts, the fibro-plate moving forwards and back- wards on the temporal articular surface, while the condyle revolves in the concavity of the under surface of the fibro-plate. In opening the mouth both the external and internal lateral ligaments are tightened and become factors in pushing the condyle of the jaw forwards by limiting backward movement at their lower attachments. Two other kinds of movement of the jaw are allowed. In one, the jaw is pushed forwards and backwards, protracted and retracted by movement of the fibro-plate on the temporal bone, while the lower com- partment of the joint is passive. In the other, the oblique or grinding movement, the condyle of one side is, together with the fibro-plate, drawn forwards; and the other condyle remaining in the glenoid cavity, there is at the same time a circular movement, the protracted condyle moving round the other, and likewise carrying with it the fibro-plate. DEVELOPMENT OF THE SKULL. In the early embryo the notochord ends in a pointed extremity curving in a ventral direction underneath the first cerebral vesicle, and soon inter- fered with and shortened at the point by the cerebral and stomodaeal pouches which cohere to make up the pituitary body (p. 98); but it can be traced in the posterior sphenoidal region for a considerable time. ''The first cartilaginous rudiments appear in the primitively membranous skull tube in the form of a pair of rods, the trabeculae cranii. These lie along the base of the brain, their posterior part embracing the notochord; and they thus are divisible into prochordal and parachordal regions." ^ The ^Wiedersheim, Elements of Comparative Anatomy adapted hy W. Newton Parlcer (p. 57). I have preferred to use these words because they make it clear that admittedly there is no radical difference in the nature of the fore part of the mesial bars of the skull from that of the hinder part. The intrusion of the fore part of the pituitary body from below, however difficult to explain in the present state of our knowledge, does not do more than open up a mesial division between the right and left halves of longitudinally arranged structures. It may be noted in this connection that in seals there is often a mesial perforation of the basilar process of the occipital, and that it is frequent when spina bifida involves large portions of the spinal column to find series •of vertebrae with their bodies in two lateral parts separated one from the other.