THE SUPEEIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 227 the disarticulated bone, is inferiorly an open groove ascending from the palate, and superiorly is converted into a lateral foramen by projection of a thin lamina backwards. The open groove completes, with its fellow of the •opposite side, the incisor foramen or anterior palatine canal of human anatomy, ^nd the lateral foramina leading up from it are called foramina of Sten- son; but a fissure passing out transversely, sometimes seen in the adult, •and always in the young bone, indicates that the parts in front •correspond with the intermaxillary bones of the lower animals, and that the foramina of Stenson cor- respond with the incisor foramina largely developed in many mammals, and inclosing in some a communi- cation between the mucous mem- branes of the mouth and nose. The laminae which separate them ■are the mesial palatine processes of the intermaxillaries. Most fre- quently, especially in young sub- jects, two small apertures, foramina of Scarpa, for the naso-palatine nerves, are left in the mesial suture, so as to give four small foramina inclosed within the mesial incisor foramen; but this arrangement is not constant. The upper edges of the heightened parts of the mesial borders unite to form the nasal or intermaxillary crest, grooved for the front of the vomer and for the septal cartilage of the nose, and projecting forwards as the nasal spine. The facial surface reaches the middle line below, and presents, higher up, an excavation of the inner border, the nasal incisura. Still further up, it is continued on the frontal process, up to the frontal bone, and articulates internally with the nasal bone, while externally it is separated by a smooth border from the inner wall and floor of the orbit. Externally the orbital border is limited b}^ the malar process, a stout projection with a ragged triangular surface looking upwards and outwards to articulate with the malar bone, and with an overhanging smooth border below, beneath which the facial is continuous with the zygomatic surface. Eminences are seen corresponding with the roots of the teeth, and especially the canine fang causes a prominence which separates a slight myrtiform or superior incisor fossa from a larger depression external to it, namely, the canine fossa, from which the levator anguli oris and compressor naris muscles take origin. Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, from which the infra-orbital nerve and artery emerge ; and above the foramen the levator labii superioris muscle arises. Fig. 211.—Palate of Skull of Child about Six Years Old. a, Anterior palatine canal with its fo\u foramina, viz,, Scarpa's in the middle line, and Stenson's at the sides; the line of suture between maxillary and intermaxillary passes outwards below a; b, posterior palatine canal; c, tuberosity of pala- tal ; d, external pterygoid plate; e, hamular pro- cess ; /, one of the foramina behind the incisor and canine teeth of children, leading to the sacs of the permanent teeth.