55 EPITHELIUM. walls of spaces associated with the lymphatics in the connective tissues. They are usually now distinguished as endothelia, and, while other epithelial cells are either epiblastic, hypoblastic or genito-urinary in origin, endo- thelium is mesoblastic, and may be derived from corpuscles in the con- nective tissues. Hence the term epithelioid cells is sometimes used instead of endothelium.^ Simple squamous epithelium is also found behind the Fig. 53.—Varieties of Epithelial Cells, a, Squamous cells from epithelium of inside of cheek ; b, simple squamous lining or endothelium of serous membrane ; c, spiny cell from the growing epidermis ; d, digitate cells from deepest layer of epidermis of palm ; e, columnar cells from intestine ; /, cubical cell from tubule of kidney ; g, ciliated spheroidal epithelium from choroid plexus ; h, ciliated epithelium from trachea. cornea, in the air-cells of the lungs, and in the loops of Henle and the Malpighian corpuscles of the kidneys. Stratified squamous epithelium is found constituting the epidermis all over the body, and likewise lines the mouth, lower part of the pharynx, and the oesophagus, down to the stomach; also the vagina, and, we may add, the urinary bladder, though its epithelium is sometimes called transitional.^ Columnar epithelia are those which have their cells vertically elongated. Plain columnar epithelium in no case presents more than one distinct layer, but the larger air-passages have stratified ciliated columnar epithelium. Cubical epithelium is a convenient term to indicate epithelial cells which have the vertical and transverse diameters nearly equal. They are not cubes but short cylinders which present a square appearance in vertical section. The tubuli uriniferi have simple cubical epithelium, the ureter stratified cubical. ^ Although the word epithelium was introduced by Ruysch to indicate the covering of the papillae of the lips, because he deemed the term epidermis inappropriate in that situation, and doubtless he had in view d-qXi], a nipple, subsequent histologists appear, as microscopy advanced, to have adopted it as if coined directly from ddWoo, as it might have been, to signify a superficial bloom. Only in this way can the modern use of the word epithelium be justified. It is the derivation approved of by Allen Thomson (Quain's Elements, 7th ed.), and defends German anatomists from the strictures of Sharpey and Hyrtl on the etymology of endothelium. 2 The term transitional ought to be allowed to drop. Introduced by Henle to indicate transition from spheroidal to columnar or scaly (Sharpey, in Quain, 5th ed., xcix.), it has lately been used to signify transition from simple to stratified (Schiifer, in Quain, 9th and 10th eds.), and, thanks to the introduction of the word cubical, it is not required in its original sense.