THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE ARTERIES. 491 It is generally held, in accordance with Rathke, that in mammals the portions of the ventral vessels, which stretch from the extremities of the fourth arches to the third, form the common carotid arteries, that the further continuations of these vessels towards the ventral extremities of the higher early disappearing arclies form the external carotid arteries, and that the third arches themselves and the highest portions of the dorsal vessels continued from them form the internal carotid arteries. The fourth and fifth arterial arches, originally developed in the neck, descend with the heart into the thorax. The inferior laryngeal nerves turn round the lowest arch on each side, and on account of the descent of th& heart and vessels take, in the adult, a recurrent course. Most of the varieties in the arrangement of the branches of the aorta are to be explained simply by variations in the growth of the aortic arch, branches being either approximated to or conjoined with one another or unduly separated from one another. One variety, however, that in which the innominate artery is absent, and the right subclavian comes off as the last branch of the arch, is specially interesting from a developmental point of view. In this case the fourth arch of the right side, which normally persists as the basal portion of the right subclavian, has disappeared ; while, on the other hand, the right aortic root, a portion of the dorsal longitudinal vessel which, in normal circumstances entirely disappears, has persisted as the basal portion of the subclavian artery. The Development of the Veins. The heart, in the earliest stage, is joined at its venous extremity by the right and left vitelline veins, which bring the blood from the vascular area of the yelk sac; they open separately into the sinus venosus. A little later, on the establishment of the placental circulation, the right and left umbilical veins- enter the sinus in close proximity to. the vitelline veins. From an early period also there enter the sinus the right and left duds of Cuvier, each of which, a short transverse vessel, is formed by the junction of the primitive jugular vein from the upper part of the trunk with the cardinal -vein which returns the blood from the Wolffian body and the lower part of the trunk. The portal system (Fig. 3G8). On the development of the liver the vitelline veins join with one another a little below the heart to form for a short distance a single vessel; between the single portion and the heart they break up into branches which, ramifying in the substance of the liver, become the venae advehentes and revehentes of the portal system. The veins from the intestinal canal join the single portion of the vitelline veins, which thus becomes the portal vein, and the original terminations of the veins in the sinus, continued from the venae revehentes, persist for a time as right and left hepatic veins. In the substance of the umbilical cord the umbilical veins join with one another very early to form a single vessel, but within the trunk they