130 THE SKELETON. and the lumbar vertebrae with it, and the parts higher up are thrown into compensatory curves; the mesial curves are exaggerated, and lateral curves are produced, the lumbar vertebrae presenting a concavity toward the higher side of the pelvis, and all the joints above being placed in oblique positions, including the atlanto axial and atlanto-occipital articu- lations. DEVELOPMENT OF AXIAL SKELETON OF TRUNK. Both in birds and mammals a thickening has been observed on the ventral aspect of the sheath of the notochord opposite each pair of muscle- plates, but continued outwards with such an obliquity as to lie at the sides in the interval between that pair and the next. This is the primitive arch, and in the atlas persists (A. Froriep). It is followed immediately in the sheath itself by a ring of cartilage with whose upper margin, in vertebrae other than the atlas, it becomes blended. The notochord is constricted and soon obliterated where each ring of cartilage grasps it, but is enlarged in the intervals destined for the intervertebral discs. Laterally, the vertebrae extend outwards to form the ribs and costal cartilages ; while, dorsally, they give off the neural arches which for a time pass only partly round the spinal canal. The first primitive arch forms the atlas, while the corresponding cartilaginous ring of the notochordal sheath is converted into the odontoid process. In the human embryo chondrification begins at the commencement of the second month, but the neural arches are not closed in with cartilage till the fourth month. In an embryo an inch long with ossification of the clavicle just begun, and probably, therefore, six weeks old, I observed that the upper costal arches had extended round to the middle line in front, that the others had attained Fig. 136.—Vertebra of Embryo onk . ' , INCH LONG, with pair of ribs continuous their fuU relative length, and that at the with it at the tubercles. Site of the tubercles the ribs were still continuous with the vertebrae, while a complete line of separation between rib and vertebra extended inwards from this. The oblique position into which the vertebra is thrown as development proceeds is therefore effected by rotation round the transverse process, and this accounts for the head of the rib being displaced upwards into contact with the body of the vertebra above. The sternum, there can be no doubt, is at first laid down in the form of two lateral strips at right angles to the tips of the costal cartilages. It is impossible, however, to refer these strips to prolongations from the costal tips. Judging from the appearance in the third month, the manu- brium may be originally continuous with the first pair of costal cartilages, but the mesosternum takes its origin distinct from costal cartilages, and