THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 414 ■of the neck. In front of the sheath, in immediate contact with it, the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve passes downwards. In the region beneath the level of the cricoid cartilage, the sterno-hyoid, sterno- thyroid, and sterno-mastoid muscles cover the sheath; immediately above the level of clavicle the anterior jugular vein crosses outwards in front of the sheath, separated from it by the sterno-thyroid and sterno-hyoid muscles; a little higher up a middle thyroid vein, in many cases, crosses in front of the ^artery. At the level of the cricoid cartilage the sheath lies immediately under cover of the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. Above the cricoid cartilage the artery is, in normal circumstances, slightly overlapped by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In this region a slender arterial twig (the sterno-mastoid branch of the superior thyroid) descends in front of the sheath, and one or more superior thyroid veins also cross it superficially. The place of division of the common carotid artery is sometimes found a little higher than usual. Occasionally one or more of the earlier branches of the external carotid artery spring from the upper end of the common carotid. Important variations of the vessel are not common. Its absence has been noted, the external and internal carotid arteries springing directly from the aorta. The External Carotid Artery. The external carotid artery (Figs. 318, 319) passes upwards from the place of division of the common carotid, at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, to a spot immediately below and behind the neck of the lower jaw, where it divides into its terminal branches, the internal maxillary and temporal. At its upper extremity it is lodged in the parotid gland, and lies upon the surface of the styloid process. It has no companion vein. It first lies internal to the internal carotid artery but afterwards becomes super- ficial to it, and, while it is in contact with it below, it is separated from it above by the styloid process. Below the styloid process, the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve pass downwards and forwards on the deep surface of the external carotid, between it and the internal carotid. Below the angle of the lower jaw it is crossed superficially from above downwards and behind forwards by the stylo hyoid and the posterior belly of digastric; below the crossing it is comparatively superficial, being only slightly overlapped by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle; above it is deeply placed in the substance of the parotid gland. Below the digastric muscle it is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve and the lingua.1 and facial veins. Above the crossing, in the substance of the gland, the facial nerve and temporo-maxillary veins are superficial to the artery. The external carotid gives off numerous branches, and rapidly diminishes in size. The branches of the external carotid artery are the superior thyroid, the lingual, the ascending pharyngeal, the facial, the occipital, the posterior auricular, the temporal, and the internal maxillary.