THE GLUTEAL ARTERY. 455 anterior layer of the triangular ligament close to the symphysis, courses through the suspensory ligament, and runs along the penis by the side of the single dorsal vein. Behind the glans the vessels of the opposite sides form an anastomotic circle. Many of the branches enter the corpus cavernosum and anastomose with its special artery. The pudic artery of the female is similar to but smaller than the corresponding artery of the male; the superficial perineal branches ramify in the labia; the artery to the bulb enters the bulb of the vestibule, and the artery to the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery supply the clitoris. Varieties of the piidic artery. All or any of the branches usually given off by the pudic after it has passed between the layers of the triangular ligament may be transferred to an accessory pudic artery^ a vessel which arises within the pelvis from the stem of the pudic itself, or from one of the other branches of the internal iliac artery, and descends by the side of the prostate to perforate the triangular ligament, in front of the urethra. The artery of the bulb is very variable in size; it sometimes arises further back than usual and occupies a position which renders it liable to be wounded in the lateral operation for lithotomy. The gluteal artery (Fig. 343), the largest branch of the internal iliac, passes backwards between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve; it emerges through the great sacro-sciatic foramen at the upper border of the pyriformis muscle, in company with the superior gluteal nerve, and immediately after- wards divides into a deep and a superficial branch. The superficial branch, the smaller of the two, ramifies on the deep surface of the gluteus maximus and anastomoses with offsets of the sciatic and lateral sacral arteries; one of its twigs, which is sometimes much enlarged, arches downwards across the back of the pyriformis muscle. The deep branch, subdividing into upper and lower branches, ramifies with the superior gluteal nerve between the gluteus medius and minimus muscles. The upper branch runs along the upper border of the gluteus minimus and anastomoses with the deep circumflex iliac and the external circumflex arteries; the lower branch crosses about the middle of the muscle and anastomoses with the external circumflex and sciatic arteries. The ilio-lumbar artery (Fig. 341), similar in distribution to a lumbar artery, passes upwards and outwards, crossing behind the common iliac artery, the obturator nerve, and the psoas muscle. Under cover of the psoas it divides into a lumbar and an iliac branch. The lumbar branch ascends beneath the psoas to the quadratus lumborum muscle, supplies a spinal twig, and anastomoses with the lower lumbar arteries. The iliac branch passes outwards beneath the psoas, pierces the iliacus, and, on the surface of the bone, divides into numerous branches which supply the muscles, furnish nutrient vessels to the ilium, and anastomose with offsets of the obturator, external circumflex, and circumflex iliac arteries. The lateral sacral arteries (Fig. 341) are usually two in number, a superior