ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 662 the lens, so that when the coats of the eye are removed three transparent structures remain in one connected mass. The posterior wall of this capsule is sunk in the vitreous humour so as to hollow it in front into a fossa patellaris. The vitreous body consists of solid and fluid constituents which can be distinguished by draining. It can be made opaque by hardening reagents, and can be kept nearly transparent in spirit by careful previous treatment with weak bichromate of potash. When hardened it tends, towards the circumference, to tear in concentric laminae, and it also tears easily in directions radiating from the axis of the eye. But only two definite structures have been found in it, namely, first, sparsely scattered amoeboid corpuscles with distinct clear nuclei, and the canal of Cloquet t (verified by Stilling and Schwalbe), a straight channel about 2^5^th inch in breadth, extending from the optic 3 pore to the back of the capsule of the lens, in the position of an ante-natal artery and communicating with the lymphatics of the optic nerve. The crystalline lens is a firm transparent structure, with a circular outline placed on edge, about one-third of an inch in diameter; and with an anterior and a posterior convex surface, the posterior the more pro- minent, and an axial thickness from before backwards of about a fifth of an inch. Neither surface is spherical; but in both the curve increases as it approaches the circumference. The lens is closely surrounded by a capsule, and on removal from this, soon begins to exhibit a concentrically laminated structure, each lamina breaking up into segments. The lines of fracture ■S\^i!^P^\ extend from the centres of the two surfaces, three on each. Those in front are directed, one upwards and the others at equal angles from it and from one another; while of those behind, one extends down- wards, and the others diverge in upward directions in the intervals between those in front. When by the weight of the lens resting on it one surface is kept from breaking up, the other breaks into six. The outer laminae are less firm than those which they surround, and the density increases gradually till the central part is reached, which is very firm and called the nucleus. Both laminae and nucleus consist of altogether peculiar fibres directed from before backwards, and each presenting in the young condition a nucleus FiG.496.—Four Elong- ated Cones from Cen- tral Spot, a, Pile of refractive discs ; b, basal parts of cone ; c, exter- nal limiting membrane ; d, corpuscle situated in the course of the fibre from the cone. (Schultze.) Fig. 497.—Lens breaking up. A, Three lines ex tending from the central point in front, and the extremities of three alternating lines from the cen- tral point behind; B, six segments separating in front and exposing the nucleus, in the case of a lens exposed on a flat surface.