THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 730 tubular or acino-tubular gland; but the same difficulty may with equal justice be raised with reference to other glands, as the parotid and i Briinner's glands. The secreting corpuscles leave little central lumen, but | a network of intercellular passages has been displayed by injection by | various observers, and compared with the network of canals demonstrated j in the liver. The secreting corpuscles are loaded with granules towards the centre of the acinus to such an extent as to add difficulty to their examination, and the number of granules is alleged to vary according j to the period of digestion. Amoeboid corpuscles, centro-acinary cells of \ Lmigerhans, are frequent within the acini. I THE LIVER. The liver is much the largest gland in the body, weighing ordinarily between 50 and 60 ounces in the adult male, and between 40 and 50 inij the female. It is of a deep brown colour more or less mingled with'| claret colour according to the amount of blood which it happens to con- tain. Symmetrical, or almost so, in its earliest development, it occupies in the young foetus the whole upper part of the abdomen ; but in conse- quence of the left side growing less rapidly than the right, it comes in the adult to occupy principally the right hypochondrium, stretching across j the epigastrium to the left hypochondrium, which it invades to a small j and variable extent. When laid out on a flat surface it is somewhat quadrate in form, thick behind, sharp-edged in front and to the sides, and decreasing both in thickness and in antero-posterior diameter toward the left, and it presents an unbroken dorsum looking upwards. But in the natural position within the body the differences in thickness I of different parts are greater; for the dorsum not only lies against the ; diaphragm both behind and above, but descends on the right side to the I level of the eleventh rib, and in front comes in contact with the trans- j versalis abdominis, its anterior edge lying inside the seventh, eighth and !j ninth costal cartilages before sloping upwards across the middle line, and ! backwards in a manner varying somewhat in different persons and attitudes. The posterior surface is also formed in great part by the dorsum, and is ^ deep and convex on the right, thinning to an edge toward the left. ! As it approaches the mesial plane it is thrown into a concavity by the pro- | jection of the vertebral column; and on the right side of this concavity, i it presents a deep vertical groove for the inferior vena cava, which is firmly J embedded in it, and receives the emerging veins termed hepatic, carrying | the blood away from the liver. The anterior edge is interrupted by two notches, one lying above the , fundus of the gall-bladder, while the other, placed about an inch and a j quarter more internally, but still situated about an inch to the right of the j middle line, receives the obliterated umbilical vein, the round ligament, as | it passes to the under surface. On each side of this ligament the peritoneum i ii