38 GENEEAL ANATOMY. subsequently divide these blocks by means of complete joints appear firsts in each case, in the form of a fibrous line breaking the continuity of the cartilage; a cavity afterwards appears walled completely by synovial mem- brane; and at a later period the membrane disappears from the faces of the opposed cartilages. Certain joints, however, are placed between parts not originally continuous, but brought into contact by growth. This is the case with the joint between the head of a rib and the vertebra above it, the sterno-clavicular articulation and that between the sacrum and ilium. But probably in all instances there is fibrous continuity before formation of the synovial cavity. Incomplete joints of two kinds are described—movable and immovable. Immovable joints do not difi'er in any essential particular from the temporary separation of the diaphysis and epiphysis of one bone. Thus, we have seen that the sutures between bones of the skull remain open in connection with the growth of the bones; and if the separation, in early life, of the occipital from the sphenoid is to be considered as an articulation^ there is no reason why the separation of the great wings of the sphenoid from the body of that bone should not be regarded in the same light. It would, however, be inconvenient to regard the whole cranium with the exception of the lower jaw as a single bone, or to distinguish as separate bones all its centres of ossification; and therefore the more permanently distinct masses justly receive separate names, though it is perfectly under- stood that several of the parts so recognized are united by osseous union long before adult life is reached, and that all may become united in the course of advancing years. The lines of contact of the bones of the skull are called sutures, and are distinguished as serrated when the edges are jagged and locked together, scaly or squamous when one edge overlaps another, and harmouia where there is mere apposition. Incomplete joints of the proper or movahle description have fibrous tissue attached over the whole extent of the exposed surfaces of bone; and this fibrous tissue is always mixed with cartilage at its attachment, con- stituting one of the varieties of so-called fibro-cartilage. At the symphysis pubis, this cartilage sometimes becomes calcified as age advances. A synovial pouch is also sometimes developed in the ligamentous junction of the bones at that joint; but the articulation remains incomplete in respect that the membranous wall of the cavity is continuous, and there are no opposed surfaces of bare cartilage. Intervertebral discs. The most remarkable of the incomplete joints are the intervertebral discs uniting the bodies of the vertebrae. These are to a certain extent complicated in their development by their connection with the notochord (p. 91); but each presents from its surface inwards a gradual transition from laminae of white fibrous tissue to the pulpy mass which occupies its centre. This pulp, as pointed out by Luschka, exhibits grapelike processes about an eighth of an inch in average size, with free surfaces and arranged in clusters, filling up the cavity into which they