THE MUSCLES. 376 ligament. The external or superficial ring lies immediately above the spine of the pubis. A hernial protrusion along this canal is called an " inguinal hernia." The external oblique has a broad origin from the outer surfaces of the eight lower ribs, by fleshy slips which interdigitate, the higher with those of the serratus magnus, the lower with those of the latissimus dorsi. The muscular fibres from the last two ribs pass almost directly down- wards to the outer lip of the anterior half of the iliac crest, the others are directed inwards and downwards to a broad aponeurosis which forms the tendon of insertion. The aponeurosis of the external oblique covers the anterior part of the abdominal wall. It consists for the most part of parallel, obliquely descending, fibres passing inwards in front of the rectus muscle to the linea alba. Its lower edge is stretched from the anterior superior iliac spine to the first half-inch of the ilio-pectineal line and the spine and crest of the pubis, where it is attached along a continuous line. It is described under the names of "Poupart's ligament" and " Gimbernat's ligament." Foiqxtrfs ligament, or the superficial crural arch, is the band of fibres brought into prominence when the thigh with the fascia lata intact is extended and rotated outwards. It stretches from the anterior superior spine to the spine of the pubis. In its outer three-fourths it contains all the fibres of the lower edge of the aponeurosis of insertion of the external oblique, but in its inner fourth only the more superficial, those which form the band attached to the pubic spine. Gimhernafs ligament is formed by the deeper fibres which pass from the inner fourth of Poupart's ligament to insertion into the first half-inch of the ilio-pectineal line. Muscular fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles spring from the outer part of Poupart's ligament, and, more internally, the conjoined tendon of the two muscles is attached to the deep surface of the ligament, and is continued along with Gimbernat's ligament to the ilio-pectineal line. Deeper still, the fascia transversalis is fixed to the back of Poupart's ligament, and at its inner part is closely associated with Gimbernat's ligament and the conjoined tendon. The fascia iliaca blends with the fascia transversalis on the deep surface of the outer half of Poupart's ligament; further inwards the two fasciae are separated from one another by the great vessels, but still further inwards they again meet at the outer edge of Gimbernat's ligament. The iliac portion of the fascia lata is attached to the lower edge of Poupart's ligament, and the pubic portion of the same fascia is fixed to the ilio-pectineal line along the line of attachment of Gimbernat's ligament. To the anterior surface of Poupart's ligament is attached the fascia of Scarpa, the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall. The external or sujjerficial abdominal ring is an opening in the lower part of the tendon of the external oblique for the passage of the spermatic cord and its associated structures in the male, or the round ligament of the