THE NERVES. 508 gathered into two before reaching it. Each anterior root takes origin by some four or five sets of bundles which do not form a linear series, but are scattered in an irregular manner over a certain breadth in front of the lateral column of the cord. The roots of the successive nerves arise from the cord at intervals. Those of the first nerves ascend slightly to the place of exit: those of the second and third pass outwards almost horizontally; the others, in order from above downwards, descend with increasing degrees of obliquity. In the case of each nerve there is considerable variation, but, as a general rule, among the upper dorsal nerves the roots take origin from the cord opposite the vertebra immediately above the one beneath which the nerve which they give rise to emerges, while, among the lower dorsal and upper lumbar nerves, the roots arise opposite the second vertebra above that beneath which the nerve which they form makes its exit from the spinal canal. The lower lumbar, the sacral, and the coccygeal nerve roots arise from the terminal portion of the cord opposite the first lumbar vertebra, and, descending in the subarachnoid space, form the Cauda equina. The splitting of each nerve trunk into anterior and posterior divisions takes place immediately after its exit from the intervertebral foramen. The posterior primary divisions of the nerves are, with the exception of those of the first and second nerves, smaller than their corresponding anterior divisions. Their distribution is limited to the muscles which occupy the furrows by the sides of the spines, and to the integument of the back. The anterior divisions supply the limbs and the anterior and lateral regions of the trunk. They communicate directly with the sympathetic chain. In the cervical, lumbar, and sacral regions they form plexuses. Deep connections of the roots of the spinal nerves. The posterior roots are formed of aff'erent fibres, which are connected with the cells of the spinal ganglia. Passing inwards from the ganglia, the fibres of the root reach the spinal cord, within which each divides into an ascending and a descending branch;. from the fibre before its division, and from each of its two branches, numerous slender collaterals are detached. The fibres terminate in the grey matter of the posterior horn, and probably also in that of the intermediate region of the cord, by break- ing up into numerous delicate arborizations, which in their ramification come into close contact with the nerve cells or with their processes, but never communicate directly with them. The collaterals terminate, as do the main branches of the fibres, in ramifications, which surround nerve cells. Some of them pass into the anterior horn of the grey matter of the same and the opposite side of the cord, and surround the cells which give origin to the anterior or eff'erent roots. The anterior roots are formed of fibres which are the continuations of the axis-cylinders of cells in the anterior, and probably also in the inter- mediate regions of the grey matter. These cells are surrounded by