THE ETHMOID BONE. 225 Orbital plate cribiform plate as a ridge rising in front into a thick process, the crista gain, to which the falx cerebri is attached; and the base of the crista galli is broadened out in front, and grooved to complete with the frontal bone the minute venous canal called foramen caecum. The cribriform plate, extending outwards from the central plate, articu- lates with the frontal and fills up its incisura, while immediately below this it is united on each side with the lateral mass. The upper surface is depressed on each side, and lies beneath the olfactory bulbs ; and the plate is called cribriform from being pierced by the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The larger and more numerous apertures have their walls prolonged a certain way on the central plate and lateral masses re- spectively, while those between are fewer and smaller, and are simple perforations. The lateral mass ^ (lateral ethmoid) is exceedingly light, consisting of walls of air-cells, an orbital plate, two turbinate processes, and an uncinate process, all of them thin laminae, central plate crista gain Above, it presents a row of cells more i or less opened into by separation i I from the frontal, whose cerebral table ''jtM^r -"" articulates with the cribriform plate jm^irm^ internal to the cells, while its super- t^f 4 ficial table articulates outside them | jL ^ * with the orbital plate. The orbital m^Bm plate or os planum is an oblong plate _ j Unciform forming greater part of the inner ^^jW^pP } inferior turbin- wall of the orbit, and articulatino- ^ atedprocess - . 1 , n 1 ^ 1 . I 1 Fig. 209.—Ethmoid from front and left. above with the frontal, below with the superior maxillary and slightly with the palatal, behind with the orbital element of the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and in front with the lachrymal. The air-cells are divided into anterior, middle and posterior ethmoidal cells, the anterior placed in front of the orbital plate, covered-in externally by the lachrymal bone, and opening into the middle meatus of the nose; the middle covered-in by the orbital plate, and opening into the middle meatus; the posterior covered-in by the orbital plate, but opening into the superior meatus of the nose. Descending from the anterior cells is the uncinate process, which turns backwards below the level of the orbital plate, taking part in the formation of the wall between the maxillary sinus and nasal cavity, and articulating with the upper edge of the in- ferior turbinated bone. The turbinated processes (Fig. 220) are two in number, distinguished as superior and inferior (or superior and middle spongy bones), and take part in the formation of the inner side of the lateral mass, which presents a continuous surface broken only in its posterior half, where it presents a cleft, the superior meatus of the nose, leading into the posterior ethmoidal cells. The upper margin of this meatus is formed by ^ Prefrontal of non-mammalian vertebrates. P