426 THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. from the outer side to avoid the vein, and care must be taken to prevent the inclusion of the pneumogastric nerve. A prominence of the costal process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the "carotid tubercle," is immediately behind the artery at the place of operation. The course of the internal carotid artery is marked on the surface by the upper part of the carotid line already described. The incision, which is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, extends upwards from the middle of the thyroid cartilage, as it is only the lower and comparatively superficial portion of the vessel which can be reached by the surgeon. The anterior border of the sterno-mastoid is drawn back- wards, the posterior belly of the digastric and the hypoglossal nerve immediately below it are identified, and the position of the great cornu of the hyoid bone is recognized. The facial, lingual, and superior thyroid veins may cross the artery. The external carotid lies in close proximity, a little in front and a little internal; it must be drawn inwards. The needle is passed from without inwards, and care must be taken of the pneumogastric nerve; the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric, and the sympathetic nerve lie on the deep surface of the sheath. The external carotid, like the internal carotid, is deeply placed above, and is usually ligatured below the level of the digastric muscle, the portion of the vessel usually chosen being that which intervenes between the origins of the superior thyroid and lingual arteries. The line of the vessel in this region is ^practically the same as that of the internal carotid, and the steps in the operation for ligature are identical with those already described. The superior thyroid, lingual, facial, and occipital arteries may also be reached, at their places of origin, through the same incision. The lingual artery is generally sought for in the second part of its course, under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle and immediately above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, the variability of the origin of the vessel and the difficulty of the operation rendering the ligature of the first part of the artery in most cases unadvisable. A curved incision is made from a point a little below and external to the sjanphysis, to a spot a little below the place where the facial artery crosses the lower jaw, the con- vexity reaching downwards as far as the upper margin of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. Some superficial veins may be met with; the sub- maxillary gland is exposed and carefully drawn upwards, the edge of the mylo-hyoid muscle is defined, and the intervening tendon of the digastric is drawn outwards. The hypoglossal nerve, with the ranine vein immed lately below it, coursing upon the surface of the hyo-glossus is exposed. An incision through the muscle, a little below the nerve, between it and the great cornu, will expose the artery which is accompanied by two small venae comites. The facial artery is usually ligatured at the place where it crosses the lower margin of the jaw, immediately in front of the masseter muscle. A