444 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. Surgical anatomy of the arteries of the forearm. The radial and ulnar arteries are seldom ligatured except in cases of wound. The course of the radial artery in the forearm may be marked by a line drawn from the middle of the hollow of the elbow to the anterior border of the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis at the wrist. The vessel may be tied in any portion of this course, but the operation is most easily per- formed in the lower third of the forearm, where the artery lies between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. The position of the ulnar artery in the lower half of the forearm may be marked on the surface by the lower part of a line drawn from the internal epi- condyle to the outer side of the pisiform bone. Above the wrist the artery lies by the radial side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The operation is only performed in the lower part of the forearm. The Superficial Palmar Arch. The superficial palmar arch (Fig. 334), the continuation of the ulnar artery, turns outwards, forming a bend with the convexity reaching down- wards as far as the line between the upper and middle thirds of the palm. It passes behind the palmaris brevis and the palmar aponeurosis, and rests upon the short muscles of the little finger, the digital branches of the median nerve, and the tendons of the superficial flexor of the fingers. It terminates, much reduced in size, opposite the metacarpal bone of the index finger, by inosculating with either the superficial volar artery or the arteria radialis indicis. It is accompanied by two small venae comites. In addition to a number of small superficial branches, it gives off" the palmar digital arteries which supply the three inner fingers and the ulnar side of the index finger. The digital arteries are four in number. The first descends to run along the ulnar border of the little finger. The other three descend, one in each of the three inner intermetacarpal spaces; each artery lies, between the flexor tendons, in front of the nerve and the lumbricalis muscle, and divides, about a fourth of an inch behind the cleft, into two branches, the collateral digitals, which run along the contiguous sides of the fingers. Immediately before dividing, each of the three arteries is joined by a palmar interosseous branch from the deep palmar arch, and by an inferior perforating branch from the dorsal interosseous artery of its space. Each collateral branch descends upon the side of a finger between the palmar and dorsal nerves, and terminates, in anastomosis with its fellow, in front of the third phalanx; it supplies both surfaces of the finger, and its dorsal branches anastomose about the base of the second phalanx with the dorsal digital artery.