MORPHOLOGY OF THE NERVES. 575 the bulk of the nerve. The fourth nerve supplies the superior oblique muscle, which is formed from the second mesoblastic somite of the head. Its fibres are to be compared to those of the ventral non-gangliated group of a seo-mental trunk. As in the case of the third, Gaskell has dis- covered in tlie fourth nerve traces of ganglionic substance, which may perhaps represent an original dorsal afferent portion. The fifth nerve is formed of two portions; the fibres of the larger afferent por.tion correspond to those of the dorsal group, while those of the smaller efferent portion are to be compared to those of the ventral gangliated group of a seg- mental nerve trunk. The motor portion of the nerve is distributed to muscles which are formed in the general mesoblast; its fibres form connec- tions with the otic ganglion; and it is interesting to note that Gaskell has discovered in its trunk, as in that of the third nerve, the remains of ganglionic substance. The fibres of the sixth nerve seem to be comi3arable to those of the ventral non-gangliated group; they supply the external rectus muscle, which is formed from the third mesoblastic somite of the head. The seventh or facial nerve is formed of fibres which belong in all probability to the ventral gangliated group. It supplies muscles which are formed in the lateral mesoblast; it is connected with the geniculate ganglion and with the submaxillary ganglion ; and Gaskell has discovered in its trunk, as in those of the third and the motor portion of the fifth, remains of ganglionic structure. The fibres of the eighth or auditory nerve correspond to those of the dorsal gangliated group which are specially connected with the epiblast, and its ganglia correspond to an afferent ganglion. The ninth, or glosso-pharyngeal, and the tenth, or vagus, may be taken together; each consists of two portions, one correspond- ing to the dorsal group and the other to the ventral gangliated group. The two ganglia of each nerve may possibly represent the afferent and the efferent ganglia of a typical segmental nerve-trunk. The eleventh, or spinal accessory nerve, is made up of two portions, one of which, the accessory portion, is probably to be regarded as a portion of the vagus trunk, the other, the spinal portion, as a set of fibres be- longing to the anterior roots of the cervical segmental nerves. The twelfth, or hypoglossal, is usually regarded on account of its super- ficial origin and central connections as comparable to the ventral non- gangliated portion of the root of a segmental nerve, but from their distribution the glossal fibres would seem to belong more naturally to the ventral gangliated group. It is interesting to notice that Froriep has discovered in the embryo a small ganglion associated with the hypoglossal trunk. If the foregoing conceptions of the arrangement and distribution of the cranial nerves are true, it follows that no cranial nerve in the adult has all the parts represented in a typical seg- mental nerve, namely, three groups of fibres, a dorsal afferent gangliated, a ventral efferent gangliated, and a ventral efferent non-gangliated. The