THE NOSE. 639 THE NOSE. Under this name is included the whole extent of the nasal fossae, which open in front by the nostrils, and behind into the pharynx, bounded in front by the nasal cartilages, and having air sinuses in connection with them. In fishes, the myxinoids excepted, the olfactory organ is distinct from the alimentary canal, and devoid of communication therewith. But in all air-breathing vertebrata, posterior nares exist, and odours are con- veyed to the termination of the olfactory nerve by inspiration. Thus, the lower part of the nasal fossae are subservient to the sense of smell, but belong also to the respiratory tract; and, in vocalization, which is equally dependent on resj^iration, the voice is modified by vibration throughout the nasal fossae and the air-cavities connected with them. The nasal cartilages complete the septum between the nasal fossae, and shut them in anteriorly: they are mesial and lateral. The mesial or septal cartilage is the persistent extremity of the cartilaginous primordial cranium, which was continued forwards in early life from the front of the body of the sphenoid bone, invaded above by the central plate of the ethmoid, and sheathed below by the vomer and the crista nasalis. Owing to the irregular development of the vomer, its posterior connections vary somewhat in the adult, vestiges being still traceable in many instances back to the sphenoid, with a vomerine ala on one side or on both; but it fits edge to edge, in direct continuity with the central plate of the ethmoid forward to the nasals, while from nasals, vomer and maxillaries it is separated by fibrous tissue, and its inferior border is pro- longed forwards between the nostrils, where it can be felt turning upwards near the tip of the nose. The anterior border of the septal cartilage is continuous at one part with the mesial edges of the triangular {upper lateral) cartilages, two plates which, united in the middle line, extend outwards and adhere by their upper edges to the margins of the nasal bones, while their lower edges are slightly separated from the alar cartilages. The alar {loiver lateral) cartilages present each an expansion limiting the nostril in front, and giving shape to the extremity of the nose. From the inner side of this expansion a linear band passes backwards in the columella or strip of integument between the nostrils, and may end in a prominence inside the nostril; and on the outer side the expanded part may be prolonged Fio. 470.—Nasal Cartilages. 1, Maxillary; 2, nasal bone; 3, septal cartilage; 4, tri- angular cartilage; 5, alar cartilage; 6, accessory cartilage; 7, adipose tissue. (Luschka.)