THE BEAIN. 632 THE WEIGHT OF THE BRAIN. Considerable attention has been devoted to the weight of the brain, for the same reasons that it has been given to the cranial capacity, namely, with a view to obtaining racial characteristics, and to ascertaining what ratio exists between mass and capability of work. So far as difference of race is concerned, cranial capacity is the easiest mode of estimating the size of the brain, since skulls can be obtained in numbers when brains cannot. On the other hand, it is weight, and not mere bulk which indicates mass. The average weight of the brain in adult males in this country has been estimated at 49J ounces, and in w^omen at five ounces less. The conclusion has also been arrived at that no brain under 30 ounces is sufficient for the exercise of the normal functions. On the other hand, there are instances of remarkable men having had great weight of brain. Thus Cuvier's brain, the heaviest on authentic record, weighed 65 ounces; but it is beyond doubt that neither do large brains belong exclusively to great men, nor have all ^great men had particularly large brains; and, apart from the sources of greatness being very various, it is to be remembered how many different parts go to make up brain-mass, that the amount of cerebral cortex does not vary pari passu with the brain-weight, and that, even if it did, we do not know how much depends on perfection of the systems of association-fibres.^ The weight of the brain varies more regularly in proportion to stature than to weight of body. The brain in the female bears a smaller pro- portion to the stature than it does in the male, but a greater pro- portion than in the male to the weight of the body. Also the ratio of the cerebrum to the cerebellum is smaller in the female than in the male, being as 7*84 to 1, instead of 8'02 to 1 (Marshall). It is a well- known law that the smaller the animal the greater the proportion, ceteris paribus, of the weight of the brain to that of the body: this has been found to hold good in the human subject in both sexes, and accounts for the greater proportion of brain-weight to body-weight in the female. In accordance with another law, the proportion of the brain to the rest of the body is greatest in early development. The average brain-weight of the male child at birth is about 13 ounces, and that of the female child about 12 ounces. The greatest absolute weight of brain is reached in early adult life, and appears to diminish till extreme old age. ^ Since this account of current statements was written, there have appeared two communications in the Lancet on 8th and 15th June, 1895. In the first, Dr. Middlemass describes a brain weighing 65^ oz. ; and in the second, Dr J. A. Campbell gives a list of 15 brains over 60 oz. from among 1146 autopsies during a number of years in the Cumberland and Westmoreland Counties Asylum. The 15 brains included one female, 62| oz. ; the other 14 were male. The heaviest weighed 71^ oz., the next weighed 65 oz., and the next 63^ oz., while four weighed each 62^ oz. This appears to be one of the most important contributions to statistics of heavy brains yet made, and makes one wish for further results of the 1146 autopsies, as well as for records of similar sort from other institutions.