MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. 355 The rectus capitis lateralis, a small four-sided muscle, springs from the upper surface of the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, ^ind is inserted into the jugular process of the occipital bone. The longus colli lies immediately on the vertebral bodies and the roots of the transverse processes ; its upper part is covered by the rectus capitis anticus major. The rectus lateralis is in series with the posterior inter- transverse muscles of the neck, small rounded biuidles which pass between the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the successive cervical vertebrae. Between the rectus lateralis and the posterior belly of the digastric the occipital artery passes backwards. The oesophagus, con- tinued up into the pharynx, lies upon the muscles of this group, and by its sides the common carotid arteries, continued into the internal carotids, ascend in front of the transverse processes. The two smaller muscles are supplied by the first cervical nerve, the larger rectus by the first and second, and the longus colli by special twigs from the cervical nerve trunks. The longus colli flexes the cervical portion of the column, the rectus major and minor flex the head upon the column, the rectus lateralis produces a lateral movement of the head. The deep cervical fascia, though nowhere very strong, is of importance surgically, and because in certain diseased conditions it is liable to undergo thickening and serves to determine the directions in which abscesses spread. It forms an exceedingly complicated structure, investing all the diff"erent muscles, the viscera and the larger bloodvessels and nerves of the neck. Followed from the back of the neck, where it invests all the muscles, it may be traced from the border of the trapezius to the posterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, covering the splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Above, it is attached to the superior curved line of the occipital bone and to the mastoid process; below, where it is strongest, it is attached to the clavicle, and is pierced immediately behind the sterno-mastoid by the external jugular vein. Of its deeper septa in the posterior triangle the most important is a layer which invests and binds down the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, retaining it in a much more horizontal position than the anterior belly; it is partly attached below to the first rib, and partly continued into the costo-coracoid membrane, and it covers and invests the scalenus anticus, at the outer border of which it has to be divided in the operation for ligature of the subclavian artery. Traced forwards from the posterior triangle the fascia splits to inclose the sterno-mastoid, and the enveloping layers meet again at the anterior border of the muscle to be continued toward the middle line. Above, it is attached to the zygoma and to the lower jaw; below, it is attached to the clavicle and sternum. In the middle line above the level of the thyroid body it meets the layer of the opposite side as a single sheet, and is fixed to the hyoid bone. Below the level of the thyroid Ix.dy,