239 FOSSAE OF THE SKULL. The orbit is of the form of a four-sided pyramid. Its entrance is l)Ounded by the 'frontal, maxillary and malar bones. Its outer wall is ^t right angles to that of its neighbour, and is formed by the malar and the great wing of the sphenoid. The roof is formed in greater part by the frontal, but completed behind by the small wing of the sphenoid. Into the construction of the inner wall there enter the nasal process of the maxillary, the lachrymal, the os planum of the ethmoid, and the sphenoid, including the orbital element of the sphenoidal turbinated bone. The floor is formed mostly by the maxillary, and completed behind by Cribriform plate Parietul Carotid groove Foramen lacerum \ mediiim / Depression for Gas- \ serian Ganglion J Superior semi-) circular canal ( Lateral sinus Parietal Foramen caecum (Suture between •s frontal and orbital ( wing of sphenoid Foramen opticum Foramen rotundum Foramen ovale Foramen spinosum J Meatus auditorius ( internus / Foramen lacerum \ posticum \ Foramen condyl- / oideum anticum f Internal occipital \ protuberance Fig. 221.—Base of Cranial Cavity of a Child, showing its anterior, middle and posterior fossae. Basilar process of occipital separated by a gap from the sphenoid. the orbital surface of the palate bone, which always lies below the orbital element of the sphenoidal turbinated, and is often united to it by bony union. At the deep end, occupying the apex of the pyramidal cavity of the orbit, is placed the optic foramen; and below, and to the outside of this, is the wide inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, while the outer end of that fissure is prolonged in the angle between the roof and the outer surface. The spheno-maxillary fissure lies in the angle between the outer wall and the floor, in its posterior two-thirds or more. In the inner wall are the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina, between ethmoid and frontal bone; and near the front is the lachrymal groove formed by the lachrymal and the nasal process of the maxilla, and