73 INTEGUMENTS. Fig. CS.—Epitheltum of Cornea of Ox. o, Superficial scales; &, young cells ; c, large cells with digital processes ; d, deepest cells ; e, degenerated cells with nucleus wasted away; /, with nucleus partially wasted ; g, young cells pro- liferating. exhibits, where the skin is thick, a vertically striated appearance, and on closer examination each of its corpuscles may be seen to consist of a part divided into finger-like processes resting on the corium and a distal portion in which the nucleus is placed. This layer is the chief seat of pigment in the negro and in the dark portions of the skin in the white races. My observations lead me to believe that Schneider (re- ferred to by Sharpey) was prob- ably right in supposing that the columnar corpuscles by per- petual division of their nuclei give rise to more superficial corpuscles of the epidermis, notwithstanding that, as I showed many years ago, the corj)uscles of the epithelium of the cornea arise by pro- liferation superficial to the elongated layer ; but the sub- ject has not been sufficiently worked out. In the ijoliihedral strata a spiny appearance of the margins of the cor- puscles may be detected, whence they have been called ijridie-cells. The .spines of adjacent corpuscles do not fit into one another, but are formed Ijy adhesion at intervals, with breaches of continuity between (Martin, 1875). In the most superficial corpuscles subjacent to the horny layer, not only is there considerable flattening, but the protoplasm has become altered and granular, imbibing carmine more easily than the subjacent younger corpuscles, and constituting a stratum granulosum. The horny epidermis consists of scales which are more or less completely converted into keratin, the chemical substance which forms the character- istic component of horn. It is impervious to ordinary carmine-staining, with the exception only of the nuclei of its deepest lamina (stratum lucidum), which continue to absorb the dye readily, while the substance round them is unaffected. In its other laminae the nuclei are more difficult to detect, but by suitable manipulation they can generally be brought more or less distinctly into view. This is easiest in situations where the epidermis is very thin, the scales being more delicate in such situations. In the stratified squamous epithelium of the buccal mucous membrane, which is essentially the same structure as epidermis, the superficial scales continue to show a distinct nucleus, and granules in the substance round about. Even in the negro the horny epidermis is destitute of pigment. Cutaneous glands. These are of two kinds, sudoriparous and sebaceous. To these might be added the mammary glands, but they are so specialized that it is better to consider them with the reproductive organs.