203 OSSIFICATION. Fig. 193.—Right Innominate Bone of Twelfth Year, outer side, showing the epiphyses in the acetabulum. (For the deep side see Fig. 161.) Lower limb. The innominate hone presents one principal ossific centre in each of its three elements; that of the ilium appearing about the ninth week of foetal life, that of the ischium in the third month, and that of the pubic bone in the fourth or fifth month, all three radiating from the acetabulum. Those of the ischium and pubic bone unite below the obturator foramen during the first year after birth, while a Y-shaped cartilage continues to separate them at their acetabular extremities, one from the other and both from the ilium. In this cartilage irregular centres of ossification appear about the twelfth year, and sometimes unite into one piece before uniting with the main bones; but more frequently fail to come into contact one with another, and are least developed between ischium and pubic bone, and most extensive between pubic bone and ilium, where a large intercalar ossification, which has attracted the attention of Albinus and subsequent writers, and been distinguished as os acekibuli, may completely overlay the pubic bone. The acetabulum is completed about the eighteenth year. An epiphysis ossifying from more than one nucleus extends along the whole crest of the ilium, and others are formed on the anterior inferior iliac spine and the ischial tuberosity. They appear after puberty, and disappear before the twenty-fifth year, the ischial more slowly than that of the iliac crest. Growth continues at the symphysial surface in the female after these epiphyses have become fixed, and separate nodules of ossification may be seen in this situation; while in the male this surface becomes close grained and smooth at an earlier date. The femur commences to ossify about the end of the second month, earlier than the ilium and humerus. Ossification extends from the shaft up to where the neck joins the head; but for months after birth there is continuous cartilage from the head to the great trochanter. The epiphysis at the lower end appears about the time of birth, and its development extends as high as the tuberosities. In the first year an epiphysis appears in the head; in the fourth year, one in the great trochanter; and, about puberty, another in the small trochanter. This last is the first to disappear: the head is united about the eighteenth year, and the great trochanter soon after it, while the lower epiphysis continues separate till about the twenty- second year. Fig. 194.—Right Femur approaching the full size, with the epiphyses of the head, the two trochanters and the lower end still dis- tinct.