THE SKELETON. 206 bones belonging wholly to the face are fourteen, of which twelve are in pairs, viz., the superior maxillaries, the palatals, the malars, the nasals, the lachrymals and the inferior turbinated; while two are mesial, viz., the vomer and the mandible. But it may be observed that the ethmoid takes only small part in the wall of the cranium, and is mainly developed in connection with the nasal fossae. The whole deep surface of the cranial wall has a peculiarly close-grained texture which, both from its glossy appearance and the way in which it cracks when exposed to violence, is termed the vitreous table, in contradistinction to the outer table formed of ordinary compact osseous tissue, and to the intervening cancellated tissue called the cliploe. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. The occipital bone forms the most prominent part of the back of the skull, and enters considerably into the base or inferior aspect. It consists, at birth, of four pieces corresponding with the permanently distinct supra-occipital, basi-occipital and exoccipitals found in fishes and reptiles. These are united, and inclose the large oval opening, foramen magnum, through which the medulla oblongata or lowest part of the brain passes, surrounded by its investments, to be continuous with the spinal cord. The part in front of the foramen magnum is called the basilar process; it increases in thickness from behind forwards, and is so com- l^letely united with the sphenoid bone, after the twentieth year, that no mark is left of the place of union, and the two bones can only be sepa- rated by means of the saw, a circumstance which led Sommering to describe the sphenoid and occipital as one bone, under the name of basilar bone. Borders. The occipital bone is lozenge-shaped, its upper two borders being united with the two parietals by means of a deeply serrated suture called occij)ito-2Mrietal or lambdoidal, and its lateral angles fitting in between the parietal bone and the mastoid portion of the temporal on each side; while its inferior borders are separated below by the extremity of the basilar process, and are each divided into two parts, the upper articulating by a not very deeply serrated suture with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and the lower in contact with the petrous portion of the temporal bone by a thin edge running along the side of the basilar pro- cess. At the point of union between these two divisions of the lower border, a projection, the jugular process, fits by means of a rough summit into the retreating angle between the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, and is bounded in front by a smooth concavity, the jugular notch, which, together with an irregular part of the edge internal to it, forms the posterior limit of a foramen between the occipital and temporal iDones, named foramen jugulare or foramen lacerum posticum, transmitting loy its outer and more regular part the internal jugular vein, and by its