94 GENEEAL ANATOMY. to the muscular segments of the head, further information is probably required. Thus it would be desirable to know the relation of the muscular segments overlying the skulls of the pleuronectid fishes to the segments of the skeleton, and to the muscles of the eyes and jaws. Parietes and mucous tract. It will already have been seen how largely the formation of organs is due to the folding of blastodermic layers with free surfaces. The freeing of the outline of the embryo from the rest of the ovum, as well as the inclosure of the viscera, is also due to folding of these layers. By local extension of superficies, the blastoderm is folded in under the margins of the cerebral vesicles; and by that means, as well as by its own growth, the fore part of the embryo is projected free into a hemispherical depression, the anterior limiting sulcus, long before the hinder part has been laid down. But gradually the ex- tremities of this sulcus are carried backwards, and ultimately the coc- cygeal end and sides of the embryo are surrounded, and the somato- pleure gathered together both later- ally and longitudinally, so as to complete the walls of the body and converge to a narrow neck at the umbilicus. Meanwhile the splanchnopleure, consisting of the hypoblast, and deep layer of the mesoblast, is folded in, after the same fashion but more closely, and the part in front forms a tube, the fore gut, extending forwards and ending blindly beneath the third cerebral vesicle, while the part behind forms a similar cul-de-sac, the hind-gut. Thus, the digestive-tube is gradually pinched off" from the yelk-cavity, of whose walls it originally formed part. The neck of communication remains as the vitelline duct, and the yelk-sac beyond is in mammals known as the umbilical vesicle. The vitelline duct soon becomes elongated and closed, being thus converted into a cord by which the omphalo-mesenteric vessels are conveyed to and from the walls of the yelk-sac. Neither mouth nor anus is a primary opening. There is every reason to believe the blastopore or neurenteric canal to be phylogenetically the one communication of the digestive cavity with the exterior; but, however that may be, the oral and anal apertures are of late appearance and both of them produced by rupture J Fig. 101.—Human Embryo, -j-, prior to bending forward of brain at back of fourth ventricle, a, Maxillary lobe, and below it the mouth bounded by the first or mandibular arch with the first three branchial clefts beyond ; b, heart; c, umbilical vesicle torn across ; d, torn edges of amnion ; e, allantois ; /, tufts of chorion destined to become placental. (After His.)