THE UEINAEY BLADDER. 771 bowel, and thereafter a septum separates a uro-genital sinus from the rectum. The subsequent stages by which the urinary part of this sinus becomes separated from the genital part do not seem to have been as yet followed in sufficient detail, but manifestly the trigone is the partition between them. At a later period the foetal bladder has the mucous membrane thrown into deep longitudinal corrugations, which cease suddenly at a transverse line and are replaced by a smooth surface at the level of the opening of the ureters. THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. The organs of reproduction consist of structures which, in the two sexes, are differently developed but homologous, and are divisible into essential and accessory. The essential organs are the testes in the male and the ovaries in the female, and provide the living elements which unite within the impregnated ovum. The accessory organs are passages, glands and erectile organs, which in various ways facilitate the coming together of the products of ovary and testis, or in the female provide protection or nourish- ment for the embryo. In the male the urethra is in its greater part a genito-urinary passage, developed in connection with genital function; and in the female, although the urethra is urinary and homologous with the purely urinary commencement of the male urethra, yet it opens into the vestibule, which is thus a genito-urinary orifice. MALE ORGANS. L The Testes, Scrotum and Seminal Ducts. The testes or testicles, originally developed within the abdomen, where in non-mammalian vertebrates they remain permanently, have in man, as in the majority of mammals, the peculiarity that they descend before birth into the scrotum. They are placed at slightly different levels, the left usually the lower, so as to slide easily past one another when pressed on by the thighs. Each is hung by a s;permatic cord consisting of the main duct termed vas deferens and the spermatic artery and spermatic vein, together with the spermatic plexus of sympathetic nerves and lymphatics, surrounded with coverings which are prolonged down over the testis itself and the special sac of serous membrane, tunica vcigincdis, with which the testis is invested. The coverings of the spermatic cord and testis are, in series beginning at the surface, the skin, subcutaneous tissue, dartos, intercolumnar fascia, cremaster muscle and cremasteric fascia, and the fascia termed in the upper part infundibuliform, and in the lower part fascia propria of Astley Cooper. The skin of the scrotum is thin, pigmented, highly extensible, furnished with scattered hairs provided with prominent sebaceous glands, presents a mesial raphe traceable back to the central point of the perineum and for-