141 BONES OF THE FOREARM. anatomical description, is both the natural and the earliest position. In development, the palm looks inwards, with the thumb toward the head, and the head of the radius, not only in many mammals, but in all other vertebrates in which it exists, articulates with the humerus in front of the ulna. The external epicondyle of the humerus is developed overhanging the dorsum of the forearm, and the internal overhanging the ventral or flexor aspect, as they continue to do in semi-pronation. The Radius. The radius is much more slender above, where it is in comparatively limited contact with the humerus, than at its lower end, which is in extensive opposition with the carpus. The head, or upper articular extremity, has a nearly circular upper surface, with a depression corresponding with the capitellum of the humerus,, and a convex border which is broadest on the anterior and inner side, and fits, especially in semi-pronation, into the groove internal to the capitellum. The upper surface is continuous with a vertically-placed articular rim, deepest on the anterior and inner side, and rotating in a ring formed by the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna in conjunction with the orbicular ligament. The deepest part of the rim corresponds in semi-pronation with the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna; and the diameter of the head then thrown into the transverse position is slightly longer than the others. The shaft is straight and cylindrical for a short distance above, forming the neck, then becomes three-sided, and at the same time becomes arched in the rest of its extent, with the convexity directed outwards and backwards. This arching is important surgically, since in fracture of the lower part of the radius it causes the broken ends to be displaced forwards. Opposite to where the arch begins is placed the large oval hicipital tuberosity, looking inwards and forwards, smooth on its summit, where a bursa is in contact with it, and rough along its posterior margin, where the tendon of the biceps muscle is inserted. Below this a sharp internal border separates the anterior from the posterior surface, and gives attachment to the interosseous mem- brane, while both surfaces are continuous on the outer side, by smooth borders with the external. The external surface is convex, and about the middle has a distinct roughness on it where the pronator radii teres muscle is inserted. On the anterior surface a smooth oblique ridge passes downwards and outwards from the lower end of the bicipital tuberosity, and separates a district extending down from the neck and giving attachment to the supinator brevis muscle from a longitudinal groove below and to the inside, whence arises the flexor longus pollicis; while from the ridge itself there springs the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. Below the oblique ridge the arterial foramen for the medullary vessels is situated, directed upwards into the bone. The broad lower part of the anterior surface is flattened from side to side and made concave by a prominent