THE SCIATIC AKTERY. 453 The superior vesical artery (Fig. 342) is in the foetus the main continuation of the internal ihac artery. It passes forwards and upwards to the side of the bladder, and is thence continued upwards as an impervious cord, the ohliteratcd hypogastric artery, to the umbilicus. The hypogastric arteries are in foetal life important vessels, carrying the blood to the placenta. Besides its branches to the bladder, the superior vesical artery usually furnishes the slender artery of the vas deferens which accom- panies the spermatic duct to the testicle and anastomoses with the spermatic artery. The inferior vesical artery descends to the lower part of the bladder, and in the male to the prostate gland. Its terminal branches anastomose with offsets of the superior vesical artery. The vaginal artery, of the female, takes the place of the prostatic portion of the inferior vesical artery of the male. It supplies the lower part of the vagina, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side and with the pudic and uterine arteries. The middle haemorrhoidal artery passes to the lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the superior and inferior haemorrhoidal arteries. The uterine artery, in the female, runs inwards and upwards in a tortuous manner between the layers of the broad ligament. It distributes many branches to the uterus, and anastomoses with the ovarian and vaginal arteries. The obturator artery (Fig. 341) runs forwards and downwards on the pelvic wall, passes through the obturator notch in the thyroid foramen, and, under cover of the obturator externus muscle, divides into internal and external terminal branches. It is placed a little below the ilio-pectineal line, beneath the obturator nerve, and above the companion vein. Within the pelvis it detaches iliac and puhic hranches which anastomose with offsets of the ilio-lumbar and deep epigastric arteries. The interned termincd branch passes downwards, supplies the upper ends of the adductor muscles, and anastomoses with the internal circumflex artery. The external termincd branch passes outwards below the acetabulum and, after furnishing a branch which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, supplies the muscles upon the back of the capsule and anastomoses with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. The obturator artery is very frequently absent from the internal iliac, its place being taken by an aberrant obturator artery (Fig. 342) from the deep epigastric; the aberrant artery is formed by the enlargement of the anastomosing branches on the back of the pubis (p. 457). The sciatic artery (Figs. 341, 343), one of the terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, descends upon the nerves of the sacral plexus and the pyriformis muscle, and, at the lower border of the muscle, escapes through the great sacro-sciatic notch to divide immediately into a number of branches. Most of these are muscular in their distribution and supply the lower part of the gluteus maximus and the adjacent muscles;