THE SKELETON. 222 usually a mastoid foramen is found conveying a vein from the outside into it, through the bone. A fissure in connection with the mastoid branch of the occipital artery, situated, in its most constant part, low on the mastoid process, though often figured has failed to be correctly appreciated. It is marked arterial fissure in Fig. 205. The petrous part, so called from its hardness, is a three-sided pyramid directed inwards and forwards from its base at the external auditory meatus to its apex at the side of the basilar process of the occipital. Two surfaces, an upper and a posterior, look into the cranial cavity, and are separated by a long, prominent and free edge, which, extending to the apex from behind the cleft at the back of the squamous suture, divides the posterior from the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and is grooved by a venous channel, the superior petrosal sinus. The posterior surface presents nearer the apex than the base, the internal auditory meatus, a large and short canal directed transversely outwards, and transmitting the facial and auditory nerves and the auditory artery. Within the meatus is seen the lamina crihrosa blocking up its extremity, except at the upper and fore part, where is placed the inner aperture of the aqueduct of Fallopius, or canal of exit of the facial nerve, which, when followed through the bone, will be found passing out- wards between and above the cochlea and vestibule, then turning backwards, separated from the tympanic cavity by a thin wall, and lastly, directed abruptly downwards to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The foramina of the lamina cribrosa are arranged in groups, the anterior conveying nerves and vessels of the cochlea, and the posterior and upper those of the vestibule. External to the internal auditory meatus is the aqiiaeductus restihnli, an irregular fissure covered by a bony scale of late development; and, on the border between the posterior and inferior surfaces, directly below the internal auditory meatus, is another small opening similarly formed, called aqiiaeductus cochleae. On the superior surface of the petrous part there is a distinct depression over the apex, marking the position of the Gasserian ganglion. Further out there is a groove leading into the aperture called hiatus Fallopii, directed outwards and backwards to open speedily into the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmitting the great superficial petrosal nerve ; more externally, an elevation from behind forwards marks the position of the superior semi- circular canal; and still further out, a fissure is generally found extending backwards a variable distance, and indicating where the petrous part, after roofing the tympanum by means of a thin prolongation, called tegm.en tijmpani, comes in contact with the squamous part. The inferior surface of the petrous part of the temporal is divisible into two, one in front of the other; the posterior of these is really a border, continuous with the posterior border of the mastoid, and exhibits, from without inwards, (1) a recess to receive the jugular process of the occipital bone, (2) the jugular fossa in which the internal jugular vein lies as it passes through the foramen lacerum posticum between temporal and occipital