736 THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. and its terminal branches are termed interlobular. But in its course it gives off vaginal branches to the other structures in the capsule of Glisson and caj)sular branches which pass to the surface and ramify in the capsule of the liver, often in stellate fashion. The lobules of the liver can be injected from the hepatic artery, but the injection always enters the lobules from the centre, and the probability is that it is taken up by radicles of the hepatic vein in Glisson's capsule, and is sent backwards when exit by the inferior vena cava is blocked. The lymphatics of the liver are deep and superficial. The deep lymphatics emerge by the portal fissure; the superficial lymphatics form a plexus of remarkable closeness whose vessels principally join the deep lymphatics at the portal fissure, but also communicate with the parietal lymphatics in the ligaments. The nerves are principally sympathetic, the hepatic branches of the coeliac plexus; but filaments can be followed into the liver from the pneuniogastric nerves. DEVELOPMENT OF STOMACH, INTESTINE AND LIVER. The part of the foregut within the grasp of the visceral arches forms a dilated pharyngeal pouch (pp. 94 and 99). The stomach makes its appearance J immediately beyond this, as a spindle-shaped mesial structure, but descends as the heart descends, its descent giving rise to the oesophagus. The i pylorus being the first part to be arrested in its downward movement, the stomach is bent and its dorsal surface thrown to the left, when the surface originally placed to the left is turned to the front. Meanwhile A B i Fig. 571.—Diagrams of Stomach and Intestine in Third Month. A, Before the colon has crossed over the duodenum; B, after the crossing ; 1, 2, 3, the coeliac, superior mesenteric and inferior mesen- teric loops ; o, the caecum. Fig. 572.—Section from Liver of Foetus of Five Months, showing from three to seven corpuscles abreast between adjacent capillaries. the part of the intestine succeeding the stomach is lengthened into a loop projecting ventrally with the umbilical duct coming off" from its turning- point, which during the second month reaches out beyond the abdominal wall. The lower end of this primary loop becomes approximated to the pylorus and forms the part of the transverse colon which remains per- manently in this connection. The caecum and vermiform appendage make their appearance close to this point, and push their way over the upper