THE MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE. 521 The palmar digital nerves, the series of which is completed by the branches of the ulnar nerve, descend farther on the fingers than do the dorsal nerves. They lie in front of the arteries and reach almost to the tips. They supply the palmar surfaces of the digits, and give branches posteriorly, which assist in the supply of the dorsal surfaces. In each finger the offsets of the palmar nerves ramify in the matrix of the nail; in the index and middle fingers, and the outer side of the ring finger, branches of the palmar nerves form the chief supply of the integument covering the dorsal surfaces of the second and third phalanges. The three subscapular nerves (Fig. 380) are derivatives of the posterior cord, and take origin in the axilla. They supply the muscles of the posterior wall of the axilla. The first or short subscapular supplies the subscapularis ; the second, middle, or long subscapular ramifies on the deep surface of the latissimus dorsi; the third or lowest subscapular detaches a twig to the lower border of the subscapularis, and is distributed to the teres major. The circumflex nerve arises from the posterior cord, immediately below the lowest subscapular. It accompanies the posterior circumflex artery, and breaks up into its branches on the deep surface of the deltoid muscle. A slender articular filament passes upwards to the shoulder-joint; muscular branches supply the deltoid and teres minor, that for the teres minor being remarkable for the presence of a gangliform swelling. A number of cutaneous branches pierce the deltoid and ramify over its lower part; one, larger than the others, descends along the posterior border of the deltoid, detaches some recurrent branches which ramify over the muscle, and supplies the skin of the outer and posterior region of the arm for a little distance below the deltoid insertion. The musculo-spiral nerve (Figs. 382, 387), the continuation of the posterior cord of the plexus, is the largest nerve of the limb. In the axilla it descends behind the main artery, but in the upper third of the arm it inclines inwards, and, with the superior profunda artery, passes between the outer and inner heads of the triceps. It then follows the course of the musculo- spiral groove, pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends under cover of the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, between them and the brachialis anticus, to the level of the external epicondyle, where it splits into its terminal divisions, the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. It detaches cutaneous and muscular branches. The internal cutaneous branch, a slender twig, arises from the upper part of the main trunk; extending nearly to the elbow, it is distributed to the integu- ment of the inner area of the posterior surface of the arm, behind the region supplied by the intercosto-humeral nerve. The upper external cutaneous branch, detached as the main trunk sweeps round the outer border of the humerus, pierces the fascia in the line of the external intermuscular sej)tum, and extends as far as the elbow, supplying the skin of the outer and anterior region of the lower part of the arm. The lower external cutaneous branch, considerably larger than the upper, and arising in company with it, or