THE BEAIN. 612 puscles with trabeculae between, like the columnar part of the cortex of the suprarenal body; the posterior part, truly cerebral in origin, is a prolongation downwards from the infundibulum, but like the pineal body fails to exhibit in mammals any nervous structure, and is composed of a variety of connective tissue, which may be looked on as thickened neuroglia.^ (See also pp. 97 and 245.) Fig. 444,—Pituitary Body. A, mesial section : a, anterior or glandular part projecting up into infundibulum; b, posterior or cerebral part, A. B, Portion of anterior part more highly magnified. I a 0 h Fig. 443.—Mesial Section of Pituitary Body and Sur- roundings. Rabbit 4 inch long, a, h, Presphenoidal and postsphenoidal cartilage ; c, dorsum sellae; d, notochord ; e, infundibulum ; /', hypophyseal pouch; g, duct of the same ; h, process filled with rounded cells, while the pouch is lined with columnar cells. (Mihalkovics.) The optic tracts and commissure. A retreating angle is left between the posterior tubercle of the optic thalamus and the side of the corpora quadri- gemina, and in this angle are seen two small elevations, the outer and the inner geniculate body, connected with the optic tract. The optic tracts traced backwards divide into a larger outer and a smaller inner root, the outer entering the outer geniculate body, which is also the larger, and the inner passing to the inner geniculate body. The outer root continues from the outer geniculate body to the superior corpus quadrigeminum, partly directly along a ridge called anterior brachium, partly by turning over the posterior tubercle of the optic thalamus; a strand also of its fibres passes by the posterior tubercle to the corona radiata, and forms a direct corticcd tract (Gudden). The inner root is continued hj thQ posterior brachimn to the inferior corpus quadrigeminum. The optic tracts, united to the crura close to the line along which they ^ The pituitary body presents a puzzle not only in development but in function ; and it can only be pointed out as remarkable that great enlargement of this body has been observed as a very frequent accompaniment of a curious hypertrophic disease affecting many parts of the body and named Acromegaly by its discoverer, Dr. Pierre Marie. Perhaps the mental symptoms in cases of Acromegaly make it not improper in this place also to note that " naso-pharyngeal adenoids," hypertrophic growths of the region from which the larger part of the pituitary body took origin, are notably liable to affect the mental powers.