645 THE EYE. vessels are independent of those of the sclerotic, and form a capillary net- work which only slightly incroaches over the margin of the cornea, but does so by a marginal fringe of small meshes accompanied by nerves; and in the same situation the lymphatics also cease, after forming a close meshwork of finer capillaries than those of the sclerotic conjunctiva. Beyond this, the dermal elements are lost, and only the epithelium is continued over the surface of the cornea in health, although, under in- flammatory irritation, conjunctival bloodvessels may spread freely on it. A B Fig. 476.—Free Margin of Network of Capillaries over Margin of Cornea, photo- graphed from stained specimen, a, Shows the breadth of the closely meshed zone, c, a portion of the same, shows the nervous plexus. The lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland, which secretes the tears and pours them out on the surface of the conjunctiva to keep it moist and the corneal epithelium transparent, and of an arrangement of passages, the lachrymal canals, which take up the tears from the surface of the eye, and in ordinary circumstances convey into the nose the whole amount secreted. The lachrymal gland occupies the fovea lachrymalis of the frontal bone, at the upper, outer and fore part of the orbit. Its length transversely is about three quarters of an inch, its breadth from before backwards about quarter of an inch, and its depth about an eighth of an inch, and it has in addition a thin outlying part in front. It pours out its secretion by about a dozen ducts, which open into the line of reflection from the palpebral to the ocular conjunctiva. It is a racemose gland, with structure similar to a serous salivary gland. It has a special lachrymal branch from the ophthalmic artery and from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. Branching nerve-fibres have recently been seen in the guinea pig piercing the membrana propria and forming fine plexuses surrounding each secreting cell (Dogiel). The lachrymal canals or passages begin at the puncfum lachrymale on the margin of each eyelid. From the