CEREBEO SPINAL AXIS. 582 the cord terminates. Both this enlargement and the sides of the conically-tapering extremity afford origin to closely-crowded roots of lumbar and sacral nerves, including those which supply the lower limbs. These roots of nerves, from above downwards, extend for regularly- increasing distances within the dura mater to reach the successive inter- vertebral foramina, and the whole bundle of them lying beyond the cord, within a loose sheath of arachnoid, is called the cauda equina. Hid in the centre of the cauda equina is the silvery thread, filum terminale, continuous > with the pia mater, which stretches down to the extremity of the dura mater, to be fixed with it to the lower end of the sacrum. In the mesial plane the cord exhibits in its whole length, continued down from the medulla oblongata, a deep anterior fissure into which a ; mesial process of pia mater dips, and posteriorly a depressed line, descending from the calamus scriptorius of the medulla oblongata, indicating the edge of a posterior fissure closed in its whole length by a reticulum of supporting material proper to the cord, the posterior septum. On each side the roots of the spinal nerves are connected with the i cord in two series—the anterior roots (also called motor) distributed to | the voluntary muscles; and the posterior roots (or sensory), distributed to the integument. Each root, whether anterior or posterior, consists of separate bundles, and, save in the upper part of the neck, the nearest bundles of successive roots are not further separate than the successive bundles of one root; but the bundles of each root approach one another as they pass outwards, the lowest bundles of the uppermost roots being |||' horizontal, and those of succeeding roots more and more directed down- wards. The bundles of the anterior roots lie four or more abreast, the innermost emerging gently from the cord and concealing those external to them; and there is no depression where they appear, the antero-lateral furrow, sometimes described, having no existence in nature. The bundles of the posterior roots, on the contrary, lie in a single longitudinal series, standing out abruptly in a distinct postero-lateral furrow further removed from the middle line than the inner bundles of the anterior roots. Each posterior root, after emerging from the dura mater, has a spinal ganglion placed on it before being joined by the anterior root to form the nerve- trunk ; and the spinal ganglia are so intimately connected with the micro- scopic structure of the cord itself that neither can be understood apart from the other. Internal structure. On transverse section of the cord the posterior septum is seen to be deeper than the anterior fissure, and the distance between the two is not more than an eighth of the antero-posterior diameter on each side. At the bottom of the anterior fissure, white substance, con- sisting of fibres crossing the mesial plane, constitutes the anterior or white commissure, and the rest of the distance back to the posterior septum is occupied by the grey commissure, in the middle of which, dividing it into anterior and posterior grey commissure, there is a small canal, the central canal