THE SHOULDER-GIEDLE. 151 and extends from one clavicle to the other, uniting their upper borders and adherent to the interclavicular notch between. The costo-davicular or rhomhoid ligament is very strong, extending out- wards for as much as an inch in continuity with the posterior ligament, but leaving between it and the anterior ligament a recess opposite which the capsule is weak. It is attached inferiorly to the first costal cartilage and superiorly to the roughness on the under surface of the clavicle. Externally its fibres are in series with those of the subclavius muscle, and of the costo-coracoid membrane covering that muscle. In connection with it there is often a costo-clavicular synovial bursa. The inferarticular fibro-jplate forms a disc strong at the circumference, though sometimes perforated in the middle. It is connected in front and Fig. 152.—Left Sterno-Clavicular and Sterno-Acromial Articulations, a, Inter- clavicular ligament; 6, superior sterno-clavicular ligament; c, fibro-plate; d, costo- clavicular ligament; e, first rib ; /, tendon of subclavius muscle ; g, coracoid process ; h, band of costo-coracoid membrane, sometimes called ligament; i, conoid ligament; k, trapezoid ligament. behind with the capsule of the joint, while at its upper part it is firmly attached to the clavicle, and at its lower to the concavity of the articular surface of the sternum. The outer synovial cavity, between the fibro-plate and the clavicle, extends further down than the inner, so as, at its lower part, especially on the deep side, to reach even to the sternum beyond the insertion of the fibro-plate. The inner synovial cavity stretches higher up than the outer, but is less extensive. The acromio-clavicular articulation, in which the oval articular surfaces of the clavicle and acromion take part, is surrounded by a fibrous capsule, forming a strong superior and a thin inferior ligament. The synovial membrane is very redundant, invading the surfaces of the articular cartilages, and projecting in thick fringes between them. The coraco-clavicular articulation is imperfect, consisting of a coraco- clavicular ligament divisible into two jDarts, called conoid and trapezoid. The conoid ligament, the posterior and inner part, stretches from the conoid tubercle of the clavicle down to the back part of the tuberosity of the