OEGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 668 and the incurved prominent margin starting in front of the concha and carried round from above to end behind at the base of the lobule is the helix. Between the back of the concha and the helix there is a prominence called the antihelix, formed by folding of the supporting cartilage and bifurcated above. The depression between helix and antihelix is called the fossa of the helix, and that lying in the bifurcation of the antihelix is the fossa of the antihelix. In front of the meatus a prominence, often hairy, called tragus, projects backwards, while, behind it, another prominence, the antitmgus, points forwards and upwards. The lobule consists of adipose tissue, in a firm stroma of white fibres, and is liable to considerable variation in form and size. The rest of the pinna is supported by cartilage. A B Fig. 504.—Cartilage and Muscles of External Ear. A, Outer aspect; B, cranial aspect; o, b, c, attrahens, attollens and retrahens auriculam muscles; d, concha; e, antihelix ; /, g, large and small muscle of helix ; h, tragus and tragic muscle; i, anti- tragus and antitragic muscle ; I; the edge of the cartilage which is attached bj^ fibrous tissue to the external auditory meatus of the temporal bone ; I, tragus from behind ; m, transverse muscle crossing the sulcus at the back of the antihelix ; 71, oblique muscle crossiuif sulcus at the back of the inferior branch of the antihelix. The lobule is repre- sented in dotted outline. The cartilage of the pinna presents in its texture an abundance of hyaline matrix threaded with networks of fibres mostly of yellow elastic character. It not only enters into the construction of the pinna, but also bounds the part of the meatus superficial to the external auditory process of the temporal bone, to which it is attached by fibrous tissue. It is a continuous sheet folded round the meatus, with one border at the anterior end of the helix, and the other looking upwards above the tragus, which is a projection of the free margin, as is also the antitragus. The cartilage presents in its unexpanded part two or three gaps, fissures of Santorini, placed transversely to the direction of the meatus. On the upper and back part of the edge of the helix there is often a small point or tubercle (Fig. 504, a) to which Darwin attracted attention, adopting the view sug-