689 THE ABDOMINAL CAVITY. cord, the obliterated umbilical vein, ascends to the under surface of the liver, which it reaches at the notch dividing the right from the left lobe; and the peritoneum reflected from the abdominal wall round this cord is thrown into a fold called the suspensory or falciform ligament of the liver, while the obliterated vein is sometimes called the round ligament of the liver. On each side of the suspensory ligament the peritoneum passes backwards, clothing the diaphragm and the dorsum of the liver as far back as the posterior border of the liver; and it likewise turns round the anterior edge of the liver and closely invests its under surface, extending on the right and left side so far back that the reflection below comes in contact with the reflection above, so as to form a pair of folds between liver and diaphragm called the right and left triangular ligaments. Between these the layers of peritoneum above and below the liver are separated by the thick posterior border of the liver lying in direct contact with the diaphragm, and together constitute the coronary ligament. Falciform and round ligament Left triangular ligament of liver Spleen Hepatic flexure Transverse colon Splenic flexure Fig. 523 -Connections of Liver and Stomach. A broad arrow is placed in the foramen of Wmslow, behind the gastro-hepatic or small omentum. To the right of the MSphaS^fl gP"""^ °^ stomach the gastro-phrenic ligament is seen. (Alexander But, while at each side the peritoneum extends back under the liver to its posterior border, it is reflected in the middle at the portal fissure away from the liver to the duodenum and stomach, and opposite the right end of the portal fissure turns in behind the structures entering and leaving that fissure, so as to form a constricted aperture, the foramen of Winslow, which, followed to the left, expands into the smaller sac of the ^^eritoneum. The foramen of AVinslow is usually just large enough to admit a finger. It has above it the only lobe of the liver invested by the smaller sac of 2 X