DEVELOPMENT OF THE CEREBRO-SPINAL AXIS. 637 vesicle, while in the same position there is hypertrophy of the folded pia mater. Thus the hypertrophied pia mater occupies a groove in the inner wall of the hemisphere-vesicle, and being separated from the cavity by nothing but a layer of epithelium, becomes the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. The olfactory lobe springs early, as a hollow outgrowth, from the anterior inferior part of the hemisphere, and in a human embryo of four and a half weeks has been figured by His as already showing indication of an anterior and a posterior part. In the third and subsequent months, it can easily be seen, as figured by Tiedemann, on the inner and back part of the orbital lobe of the hemisphere and extending forwards free to form peduncle and bulb, while from the base, which contains the original communication with the interior of the hemisphere, a thick elevation strikes directly outwards in front of the island of Reil. Fig. 468.—Base of Brain of Foetus of Four Months. 4, Fig. 469.—Brain of Foetus of Three Months, f. a, Olfactory |i ?>• bulb ; h, insula ; c, corpora albicantia ; d, pons ; e, corpora quadri- I"; I gemina ; /, cerebellum ; g, floccular notch ; h, anterior pyramids; i, \ cervical enlargment. Transitory fissures are seen on hemispheres. Cr Fig. 469. The thalamencephalon is originally completely roofed, and in the chick of the fourth day presents a pointed mesial dorsal projection apparently attached to the roof of the containing parietes. This is the pineal body, whose connections no doubt turn it back at the same time that the falx cerebri, which was originally vertical and in front of the corpora quadrigemina, is flung backwards by the enlargement of the hemispheres. The development of the pituitary body has been already referred to in connection with its structure (p. 612), and with the development of the base of the skull (p. 245). The corpora albicantia are remarkable in being very largely developed in the fourth and fifth month of foetal life, so as to form a great rounded eminence not altogether behind the chiasma, but extending beyond its anterior edge.