GENEEAL ANATOMY. 104 of villi corresponding to them and fitting deeply into them; and these foetal tufts can be pulled separate from their maternal cotyledons, while a considerable amount of milky-looking substance can at the same time be squeezed from the recesses which they have occupied. The foetal placenta is developed from the allantois. In ruminants the sac of the allantois expands so as to fill the cornu of the uterus for a while, till ^ the amnion expands and casts it to one side, where it can be seen shaped like a sausage, as the name implies. But in the human subject the sac only touches the uterine wall, while the outer layer, the mesoblastic or mesen- chymal covering, is continued as a delicate web conveying vessels for a time to the whole extent of the chorion, and entering its villi. In the decidua serotina the villi of the chorion are exaggerated {chorion frondosum), and the compact layer of decidua loses all trace of glandular structure, while the inter- glandular substance is developed into blood-sinuses surrounding the villi, and into a basal layer of firm tissue containing large multinucleated corpuscles. The basal layer passes out in the form of septa between the groups of villi, uniting them in cotyledons, and is prolonged round the sinuses as a thin subchorial layer (Kolliker), so as to grasp the bases of the foetal tufts. The tufts of foetal bloodvessels are most intimately connected with the blood-sinuses which surround them, but are nevertheless covered by flattened epithelium. Tortuous arterioles pass through the basal layer to dilate at once into the maternal sinuses, whence the blood returns by veins, there being no capillaries anywhere intervening. The mode of development of the blood-sinuses affords matter of dispute as to whether they are truly maternal or clefts between the foetal and maternal structure. Hubrecht and other recent writers, observing in different animals large epiblastic developments at an early stage, support the theory of clefts put forward by Kolliker and others ; but it is question- able if anything has been seen to upset the view that the deciduate placenta of the human subject is fundamentally comparable with the in- deciduate placenta of ruminants, and that the epithelium of the foetal tufts of the human placenta is representative of both the foetal and maternal epithelia in those animals. Fig. 111.—F, Foetal placenta; M, maternal placenta ; a, tortuous artery; v, vein returning blood from maternal sinus d'; d, loop of vessel of foetal villus ; e', uterine epithelium ; x, wall of maternal sinus lined witti endothelium ; t, band stretching across from sinus to surface of villus ; di, decidua serotina. (Hertwig, from Turner.)