GENERAL ANATOMY. THE LIVINCx CORPUSCLE. In the simplest living beings, whether animal or vegetable, the functions of life are carried on by a single corpuscle, a mass of pulp of microscopic dimensions, scarcely begun to be differentiated into parts for different offices. One of the earliest complications of such a mass is the distinction of a firmer rounded body, the nucleus, within it; and in certain instances, notably those of vegetable type, there is added an envelope or cell-ivcill round about. Such corpuscles are not only the simplest form of adult organisms, but furnish the embryonic origin of all others; and are the most obvious living elements of the adult texture. They are, in fact, units of life. They arise, probably in every instance, from pre-existing corpuscles ; and thus the living corpuscles of the textures are comparable with separate organisms in possessing parentage, as Avell as in other respects. They are very commonly called nucleated cells. But the term 'cell' had its origin in the importance once attributed to a structure which is now known to be really no part of the living corpuscle, the cell-walls formed of cellulose in plants being familiar to botanists before their contents were well appreciated. Robert Brown first observed and named the nucleus, while another botanist, v. Mohl, observed that there was within the cell a special delicate substance which he called protoplasm. Schwann (1839) was the first to realize that organization proceeded by essentially the same methods in animals as in plants, and naturally adopted the word 'cell' from the botanists, though aware that a cell-wall was not in every instance present. It was not till much more recent years that histologists generally became aware that the protoplasm and nucleus are, as is now conceded, the most important elements of living corpuscles in both animals and vegetables, and that the cell-wall when present is adventitious. Protoplasm is simply a convenient term for the substance surrounding the nucleus and constituting the mass of the living corpuscle. Its meaning cannot with propriety be extended so as to include the substance of the more specialized living elements, such as muscular fibre, which, although nearly allied in chemical composition, have peculiarities of their own.