770 THE UEINARY OEGANS. the prostate is enlarged to be increased in size, and so offer obstruction to the entrance of instruments. Structure. The walls of the bladder present, besides the partial invest- ment of peritoneum and the connective tissue prolonged from the recto-vesical fascia, a muscular coat and a mucous membrane, separated one from the other by a submucous coat of loose areolar tissue, rich in elastic fibres, in which the arteries for the mucous membrane divide. The muscular coat consists of fibres somewhat complexly arranged, yet easily resolvable into three layers closely connected one with another— a superficial, a deep longitudinal and an intervening circular layer. The superficial longitudinal fibres are arranged in two broad and strong bands, one in front and the other behind the neck, which both spread out on all sides as they ascend; the posterior band is traced downwards at the neck, between the bladder and at least the lateral lobes of the prostate, while the anterior band extends forwards on the surface of the prostatic part of the urethra, and some of its fibres reach the pubic bones in the substance of the anterior true ligaments. The lateral fibres of both bands spread out the most speedily, and are continued into the circular layer, while others arch round the summit, and a few, mesial in position, are con- tinued to the urachus. The circular layer is the strongest, and at the neck is considerably thickened, forming a ring, the division of which by a special cut in lithotomy causes the outlet to expand. Higher up, its bundles cross in a reticulated fashion, which imparts its character to the interior in cases in which the muscular wall has been much exaggerated. The deeiJ longi- tudimd fibres form a thin layer, regular below, scattered above. The mucous membrane is similar to that of the ureters in so far as it is covered with a stratified squamous epithelium. The deepest cells are small; those superficial to them oval, caudate and spindle-shaped, while the super- ficial cells are granular and by no means as much flattened out as those of the epidermis. The superficial cells are clear at the surface and granular in their deeper part, in which are the nuclei. The nuclei are subject to direct or amitotic proliferation, sometimes as many as four being present in one large irregular platedike corpuscle; and the granular portion of the corpuscle is pitted with deep depressions, into which are fitted elongated projections of the underlying corpuscles (Dogiel, 1890). Fessels and nerves. The arteries are derived from the superior, middle and inferior vesical branches of the internal iliac. The veins fall into a copious plexus at the neck partl}^ derived from the genitalia, and fall into the internal iliac veins. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses of the sympathetic, and from the anterior divisions of the third and fourth sacral nerves. Small ganglia have been found on them, and their fibres would appear to have been traced into the epithelium. Development. Derived originally from the proximal part of the allantois, the urinary bladder first communicates with the outside by its connection with the gut. A cloaca is formed by the junction of the allantois and the