499 LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. Glands. The external iliac glands, three to five in number, surround the external iliac artery ; they are of variable size, the lower ones being generally larger than the upper. They receive the efferent vessels of the deep inguinal glands and some of those of the superficial inguinal glands, and also the deep lymphatic vessels which, coming from the lower part of the abdominal wall, accompany the deep circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries. They discharge into the lumbar glands. The internal iliac glands, usually twelve or thirteen, but variable in number, lie by the side of the internal iliac artery and its chief branches. They receive the deep lymphatic vessels of the gluteal region and the perineum, and a few which accompany the obturator artery from the adductor region of the thigh. They also receive the greater number of the lymphatic vessels from the bladder and prostate, those from the vesiculae seminales, and those from the vagina and the low^er part of the uterus. Their efferent vessels pass to the lumbar glands. The sacral glands are four or five in number. They lie in front of the sacrum along the line of attachment of the mesorectum. They are connected anteriorly with five or six rectal glands which lie between the folds of the mesorectum. The sacral glands receive the lymphatics of the sacral part of the pelvic wall, those of the rectum, and a few of the posterior vessels of the bladder and prostate. Their efferent vessels join the lumbar glands. The lumbar glands are divided into three groups, two of them lateral, the third mesial in position. The mesial glands, six or seven in number, are of considerable size, and surround the aorta, extending upw^ards as far as the place of origin of the superior mesenteric artery. They receive the efferent vessels of the external iliac, internal iliac, and sacral glands, and some of those of the lateral lumbar glands. They receive, in addition, in the male, the lymphatics from the testicle, and, in the female, those from the upper part of the uterus and the ovary, and to them are also directed the vessels from the kidneys and suprarenal capsules, and from the vertebral portions of the diaphragm. They discharge themselves by right and left vessels into the receptaculum chyli. Into the left vessel the lymphatics from the sigmoid flexure and the lower part of the descending colon usually open. The lateral groups are made up of numerous small glands which lie behind the psoas muscles, between the successive trans- verse processes. They receive the deep lymphatic vessels of the posterior abdominal wall, and their efferent vessels pass partly to the mesial glands and partly to the receptaculum chyli. The mesenteric glands. Several glands of considerable size surround the base of the superior mesenteric artery, and are connected distally with a very large number of small glands which lie between the layers of the mesentery. The small glands are arranged in an irreguUxr