THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 726 fraenum crossing the fold is called the habenula. The importance of this fold in the development of the under lip of the ileo-colic valve has been shown by Toldt, and derives additional interest from the circumstance that the form of the human ileo-colic valve is peculiar, the usual form in mammals being circular, as it is originally in the human foetus. The varieties of peritoneal connection of the caecum and vermiform appendix, and the tendency of the latter to be coiled up and concealed behind the caecum, have recently received great attention at the hands of various anatomists, especially Treves and Huntington. The ileo-caecal or ileo-colic valve is an arrangement by which reflux of the contents of the great intestine into the ileum is prevented. It consists of an upper and a lower lip of mucous membrane projecting from the aperture of the ileum into the colon, while the anterior and posterior angles of junction of the two lips are prolonged as projecting folds (fraena) more or less round the colon. The upper lip projects transversely, and the lower obliquely upwards, and the lower is much the broader. Villi and closed follicles, agminated glands, are found on the opposed surfaces of the lips and cease at their edges. Distension of the colon puts the lips on the stretch, and thus keeps them in close apposition. The colon. The ascending colon extends upwards from the caecum, in contact with the posterior wall of the abdomen, being to a certain exent uncovered by peritoneum behind. It passes from the right iliac region, through the right lumbar, and into the right hypochondriac region, where it is continued into the transverse colon by making a sharp turn, the hepatic flexure, which rests against a slight depression on the anterior half of the under surface of the right lobe of the liver. The transverse colon at its commencement runs with a forward and downward inclination ; it then crosses in front of the small intestines below the stomach, and inclines upwards and backwards below the spleen to end in the descending colon by taking a sudden turn, the splenic flexure, at a higher level and further back than the hepatic flexure. The transverse colon may be said to have a mesocolon in its whole length, but at its commencement the mesocolon is so narrow that the colon is almost in contact with the duodenum where it crosses it; and it is narrower again at the splenic flexure, where it ends in a prominent (costo-colic) fold. But in the intervening part, where the smaller sac of the peritoneum takes part in its formation, the mesocolon is broad, and sometimes it is greatly stretched Fig. 562.—The Caecum and Ileo-colic Valve, a, Ueum ; b, ascending colon : c, caecum ; d, vermiform appendage.