SPINAL NERVES. 509 the arborizations of the collaterals of posterior root fibres, and in addition by the lateral or terminal branches of fibres which descend from cells of the anterior cornua at a higher level, from the cerebellum, and from the cerebral cortex. THE POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS. From their places of origin they are at once directed backwards, passing behind a line of muscles by which, in the neighbourhood of the openings of the intervertebral foramina, they are separated from the anterior divisions. This line is represented in the neck by the rectus capitis lateralis and the posterior intertransverse muscles, in the thoracic region by the levatores costarum and the external intercostals, in the loins by the external intertrans- verse and quadratus lumborum muscles. With the exception of the first cervical, the last two sacral, and the coccygeal, each member of the series divides into an external and an internal branch. These branches immediately on their origin diverge from one another, the line of separation being marked in the neck by the line of the origins of the complexus muscle, in the thoracic region by the intertransverse ligaments, and in the loins by the internal or median intertransverse muscles. Both external and internal branches give off muscular twigs. The special muscles in the different regions which are supplied by them are the short posterior cranio-vertebral muscles, the interspinals, the internal lumbar intertrajisverse muscles, the multifidus spinae, semispinalis, erector spinae, and splenius. The cutaneous supply is furnished by the internal branches in the cervical and upper dorsal regions, and by the external branches in the lower dorsal, lumbar, and upper sacral regions. The Posterior Divisions of the Cervical Nerves. The posterior division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve does not divide into an internal and an external branch. It is a short trunk which passes backwards over the posterior arch of the atlas, beneath the vertebral artery, and breaks up into a number of twigs which supply the four short posterior cranio-vertebral muscles. It likewise gives a twig to the complexus, and occasionally furnishes a cutaneous branch wdiich ramifies over the back of the occiput. The external branches of the cervical nerves, from the second to the eighth, are small and entirely muscular in their distribution; they are directed outwards to the cervical portion of the erector spinae and to the splenius. The internal branches, from the second to the fifth, pass inwards under cover of the complexus muscle. They give off muscular twigs to the multifidus spinae, semispinalis, complexus, and interspinales, and, in addition, furnish cutaneous branches, which pierce the trapezius close to the middle line.