549 THE INB^ERIOR MAXILLAEY NERVE. before backwards. It is placed immediately below the foramen ovale and in front of the middle meningeal arter3\ It lies on the deep surface of the inferior maxillary trunk, at the place of origin of the nerve to the internal pterygoid, with which it is usually very closely connected. It receives root fibres from the following sources—(a) from the nerve to the internal pterygoid; (b) from the small superficial petrosal nerve, which comes from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal and receives a communicating filament from the geniculate ganglion of the facial, and afterwards pierces the spheno-petrous suture to reach the ganglion from behind; and (r) from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. It is also connected by delicate filaments with the auriculo-temporal and chorda tympani nerves. It detaches muscular branches to the tensor tympani and tensor palati muscles. Surgical anatomy of the fifth nerve. The branches of the fifth trunk are frequently the seat of severe and obstinate neuralgia, for the relief of which the surgeon is often compelled to excise portions of the nerve. In very severe cases, in which the pain has been referred to all or a consider- able proportion of the branches, the Gasserian ganglion itself has been the subject of operation. To reach the ganglion, the zygoma and the coronoid process are divided, the external pterygoid muscle is cut through, and the portion of bone immediately surrounding the foramen ovale is removed; the ganglion is then pulled outwards, and as far as possible removed. This operation is a very serious one. The supraorbital branch of the ophthalmic division is easily exposed by a transverse incision immediately above the supraorbital notch. The infraorbital nerve is also easily reached as it appears upon the face. A great part of the trunk of the superior maxillary division, and Meckel's ganglion, may be removed by first opening the antrum of Highmore through its anterior wall, then perforating the posterior wall of the space, and finally with great care breaking through the thin plate of bone which forms the floor of the infraorbital canal and groove. Exposed in this manner the nerve may be cut through almost as far back as the foramen rotundum. This operation has been practised for the relief of obstinate neuralgia affecting the teeth of the upper jaw. The trunk of the inferior maxillary division has been reached, as it escapes from the skull, by an operation similar to the first stages of that for the removal of the Gasserian ganglion. The inferior dental branch can be exposed from the inside of the mouth, the guide to the nerve being the prominent margin of the inferior dental foramen, which may be felt through the mucous membrane. The lingual nerve can also be reached from the inside of the mouth through an incision made about half an inch below the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. THE SIXTH, THE ABDUCENT OCULAR NERVE. The sixth nerve supplies the external rectus muscle. It emei-ges from the brain at the inferior border of the pons, above and toward the