THE PALATAL BONE. is the notch of the same name completed into a foramen by the sphenoidal turbinated bone; it is the ethmo-palatine foramen of other animals, and forms the communication between the spheno-maxillary fossa and the posterior nares, giving passage to branches of Meckel's ganglion and of the internal maxillary artery. THE VOMER. The vomer is a mesial bone entering into the formation of the septum between the nasal fossae. It is liable to lose much of its characteristic appearance before adult life is reached, partly by anchylosis with the central plate of the ethmoid, partly by absorption, and ought therefore to be first studied in the child. It consists of two alae united below and a mesial body descending from their line of junction. The alae are thick and expanded behind, fitting on under the sphenoid; and at their tips articulate edge to edge with its vaginal processes, and, in front of them, with the sphenoidal processes of the palate bones. In front of this their edges descend as they pass forwards, and remain in contact with the septal cartilage of the nose, which occupies the interval between them. Anteriorly they terminate in a grooved intermaxillary process which rests on the intermaxillary crest. The body or keel is more and more elongated from above downwards as adult age is approached. Its posterior free margin descends from beneath the bifid posterior extremity of the alae to the back of the hard palate, and its inferior border extends forwards from this to fit in front behind the intermaxillary crest. In the young child it presents a flat expansion resting on the hard palate, with a mesial ridge and a transverse mark corresponding with the lines of junction of the bones beneath; and remains of this expansion may be sometimes detected in the adult turned down over the ridge which has risen below them.^ A groove on each side below the line of origin of the alae indicates the course of the naso-palatine nerve. In the adult, either one or both alae are united in osseous continuity with the central plate of the ethmoid. When the union has taken place on both sides, the septum of the nose is straight and a bar of cartilage is imprisoned between the two alae and the lower edge of the mesethmoid. ^Vei-y occasionally a separate little spicule extends down into the suture Ijetween the maxillae from the point which fits in behind the intermaxillary crest. It nearly corresponds with the snout bone in ornithorhynchus and the boar. When I showed a specimen of it to Professor Goodsir, he recognized it as having been brought under his notice by the anatomical attendant. Fig. 214.—Vomer, etc., of Child. a, b, c, The parts of the inferior margin of the v'omer for articulation with the palatal, maxillarj', and intermaxillary bones respectively; d, sphenoidal tur- binated bone ; e, orbital plate of the ethmoid seen in perspective ; /, inferior turbinated process of the ethmoid.