555 THE GLOSSO PHARYNGEAL NERVE. A little below the place of origin of the pharyngeal nerves one or more slender muscular branches are detached to the stylo-pharyngeus. Near the tongue one or two tonsillar branches are given off; these ramify over the tonsil and the anterior pillar of the fauces. Glossal branches. Of the terminal branches one, the dorsal branch, is distributed to the circumvallate papillae, and the posterior third of the tongue extending backwards to the epiglottis; the other, the lateral branchy ramifies over the side of the posterior half of the tongue. THE TENTH NERVE, THE VAGUS OR PNEUMOGASTRIC. The pneumogastric nerve (Fig. 412) arises immediately behind the glosso-pharyngeal nerve from the groove on the side of the medulla between the olivary and restiform bodies, by several fasciculi which unite with one another to form a single stem. Auclei of origin. Within the substance of the medulla the fibres are connected with the nucleus of the ala cinerea and the nucleus ambiguus already described in connection with the ninth nerve; a few join the funiculus solitarius. From its place of origin the vagus is directed outwards to the foramen jugiilare through which, in company with the spinal accessory nerve, it leaves the cranium. In the foramen it presents a small ganglion about a sixth of an inch in diameter, the ganglion of the root. As it emerges from the foramen it appears between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein; the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is in front of it; the spinal accessory is behind; and the hypoglossal nerve, at first on its deep surface, winds round its posterior border, and is closely connected with it. In this situation the nerve swells into a second and larger ganglion, the ganglion of the trunk (plexus nodosus). Descending in the neck the vagus occupies a special compartment in the carotid sheath and lies on the deep surface of and between the artery and vein. From the root of the neck, on account of the want of symmetry of the parts in the upper region of the thorax, the course and relations of the nerves of the opposite sides must be separately traced. The nerve of the right side descends in front of the first part of the subclavian artery, and detaches its recurrent branch, which passes upwards behind the artery. It then enters the thorax behind the innominate vein and descends to the posterior surface of the root of the lung. Behind the root it forms a flattened cord from which numerous branches, forming the posterior pulmonary plexus of the right side, pass outwards to the lung. Below the root, the nerve divides into two branches which descend upon the side of the oesophagus, detaching to one another and to the corresponding cords of the opposite side communicating branches which form the oesophageal plexus. Near the diaphragm the two cords reunite and form a single trunk which passes through the oesophageal opening and ramifies on