788 THE EEPEODUCTIVE ORGANS. has its fasciculi interspersed with areolar tissue and tubular glands, and is arranged longitudinally in the cervix, obliquely higher up, and circularly toward the mouths of the Fallopian tubes. But even these distinctions into layers are vague, and there seems no advantage to be gained by calling the inner fibres imiscularis mucosae, as has been proposed (Williams), for that could only indicate a layer belonging to the mucous membrane, and separated from the others by a submucous layer of loose tissue, whereas the most marked peculiarity of the mucous membrane of the uterus is that it is not separated from the subjacent textures by anj^ such layer. The epithelium lining the uterus is simple columnar ciliated. The surface outside the os externum has stratified scaly epithelium continuous with that of the vagina. This is continued at first into stratified columnar epithelium on the prominent ridges of the cervix, while already the recesses between have ciliated columnar epithelium. Scattered through the mucous membrane of the body are elongated, straight or somewhat winding tubular follicles (glanchlae vfrimlares), lined, unlike secreting glands generally, with ciliated columnar epithelium. And these extend also down into the upper part of the cervix, but in the lower part are exchanged for wider follicles with cubical epithelium secreting mucus. Clear vesicles (ovuli Nabothi) also occur, embedded in the mucous membrane of the cervix, probably resulting from closure of some of the mucous follicles (Toldt). In menstruation there is at first a general sw^elling and softening of the whole mucous membrane, increased vascularity, also enlargement of the epithelial cells, and afterwards extravasation, formation of oil globules both within and around the epithelial cells, and abundance of lymphoid corpuscles or leucocytes. Vessels and nerves. The uterus is principally supplied with blood by the right and left uterine arteries, given off from the anterior divisions of the internal iliac arteries. These reach it opposite the cervix. Each gives off a vaginal branch down^vards, and is directed upwards on the side, giving off undulating branches to the anterior and posterior walls, and anastomosing above w^ith the ovarian artery along by the Fallopian tube. The uterine and ovarian veins anastomose much more freely than the corresponding arteries. The lymphatics are very abundant, and are deep and superficial. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexus, which are joined by branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves. Bkornute uterus is an abnormality arising from imperfect development. The uterus maj^ divide into two cornua or be completely double, and the vagina may partake either in wdiole or in part in the duplicity. One-horned uterus results from suppression of the part connected with one Fallopian tube. In pregnancii the menstrual thickening of the mucous membrane, instead of terminating with relief of the swollen capillaries, associated with a certain degree of fatty degeneration of texture, goes on further to the formation of the decidua (p. 103). The rapid increase of the uterus is accompanied with ascent into the abdomen, and the cervix undergoes remarkable changes.