THE LUNGS. 751 . layer of very thin delicate squamous epithelium, which is exchanged at the free margins for much smaller, thicker, but still squamous cells, which are also found in the ultimate bronchioles. The bronchi and bronchial tubes. The trachea divides into two bronchi, one for each lung. The right bronchus is somewhat larger than the left. The left bronchus slopes more downwards than the right (though an opposite . statement has been made), the right forming an angle of 60° with the perpendicular, and the left an angle of 40° (Macahster). The vena azygos turns forwards over the right bronchus; the arch of the aorta passes back over the left. The bifurcation of the trachea is in the mesial plane, l)ut the left lung is kept by the aorta and heart more away from the mesial - plane than the right, and thus the exposed part of the bronchus is longer on the left than the right side. From the upper side of the right bronchus a branch, which immediately divides into three, is given off for the upper lobe about three-quarters of an inch from the commencement and before entrance into the lung; and owing to this the right bronchus appears higher than the right pulmonary artery, while the left bronchus lies alto- gether behind the left artery. The branch for the upper lobe of the left lung comes off close to those for the lower lobe, the distance from the trachea to its origin being rather greater than to the breaking uj) of the right main bronchus into branches for the middle and lower lobes. Along to the origin of branches for the inferior lobe the main tubes have the same arrangement of cartilaginous rings as the trachea, and these are the parts properly termed the bronchi. But beyond this, in each lung a con- tinuation may be distinguished prolonging the bronchus directly onwards, with the cartilages no longer in regular bars, but broken up into irregular pieces, as if composed of portions of successive bars partially united. This ends in a set of elongated bronchial tubes to the back part of the base, and I gives off in its course others springing, some of them directly, some from short peduncles, and running a few of them inwards, but the greater number forwards and outwards. The elongated bronchial tubes have quadrate and angular plates of cartilage scattered irregularly in their walls. They branch dichotomously to a certain extent, but principally give off from their sides numerous small bronchioles devoid of cartilage. It is advisable to restrict the use of the term bronchioles to these and the still smaller tubes into I which they divide. I The bronchi and their ramifications, including the elongated bronchial tubes, have microscopic structure similar to the trachea, stratified ciliated columnar epithelium, racemose glands, longitudinal elastic fibres and a transverse muscular coat; but when the cartilages become distributed all round, the muscular fibres are so also. After the cartilages have disappeared, the muscular coat is still found on the bronchioles, as are also the elastic fibres; while the epithelium becomes simple, and the surface of the mucous membrane continues longitudinally plicated. In ' the smallest bronchioles the muscular coat has disappeared, and the