MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. 349 over the border of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and lies in close contact with the membranous portion of the wall of the Eustachian tube. It is inserted into the aponeurosis of the soft palate, many of it& posterior fibres decussating with those of the opposite side. Nerve supply. The nerve supply of the muscles of the soft palate is not yet, in all the cases, satisfactorily determined. The palato-glossus, palato-pharyngeus, and levator uvulae receive their nerves from the pharyngeal plexus, and it is probable, from the records of clinical experi- ence and physiological experiment, that these branches reach the plexus from the bulbar portion of the spinal accessory nerve through the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal trunks. The levator palati is supposed, by many anatomists, to receive branches through Meckel's ganglion from the facial nerve, but it is more probable that its supply comes from the plexus in the way indicated above. The tensor palati receives a branch from the otic ganglion, presumably from the motor portion of the fifth, but it is possible that this twig may be derived from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve by way of the nerve of Jacobson, and the lesser superficial petrosal (W. A. Turner, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, xxiii. 523). Actions. The levator and tensor palati act together, raising and making- tense the velum. The palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus depress the soft palate on the one hand, or on the other raise the tongue and pharynx when the velum has been raised and made tense by its superior muscles. Along with a number of other muscles they all come into play in the act of swallowing. The food, after mastication, lies upon the surface of the tongue, which is then raised and drawn backwards by the action of the stylo-glossi muscles, together with the stylo-hyoidei and stylo-pharyngei, the mass being pressed against the under surface of the soft palate. The next stage, spasmodic in its nature, is characterized by the shutting ofi' of the nasal, laryngeal, and anterior part of the buccal passages and the propulsion of the bolus into the grasp of the constrictors of the pharynx. The palato-glossi muscles contracting assist the tongue in shutting off' the anterior part of the buccal cavity. The elevator muscles of the hyoid bone and larynx, the thyro-hyoid, genio-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, and stylo-hyoid, assisted by the palato-pharyngeus and stylo-pharyngeus, draw the larynx upwards under the tongue, which, by its pressure upon the epiglottis, com- pletely closes the laryngeal orifice. The levator and tensor palati raise and make tense the palate. The stylo-pharyngei muscles contracting meet in the middle line and, assisted by the upper part of the superior and middle con- strictors, prevent the food entering the nasal passages and, at the same time, draw upwards the lower part of the pharynx. The next stage of the process is involuntary, and consists in the contraction from above down- wards of the constrictors of the lower part of the wall of the pharynx, by which the bolus is propelled onwards into the oesophagus. In vocalization the palate is raised and made tense by the levator and tensor muscles.