569 DEVELOPMENT OF THE NEEVES. to the ventral margin. Extending outwards, they reach the developing posterior roots, and complete the nerves. The original nerve-fibres are delicate processes prolonged from the nerve cells ; thej^ become the axis-cylinders of distribution, and acquire medullary sheaths and connective-tissue coverings from the general mesoblast through which they run. According to His, the growth towards the periphery is slow. He describes the spinal nerves as beginning to develop in the human foetus in the fourth week, and as not having completed their growth to the tips of the extremities by the end of the eighth week. It will be seen that this leaves much in the arrangement and distribution of the nerves which still requires explanation. The mode of growth of the immensely long axis-cylinder processes, the regular formation of plexuses, and the regularity of the supply of definite muscles or areae of skin from definite segments of the cord, have not been adecpiately explained. Hensen has put forward the theoretical suggestion that all nerves take their origin from a network of intercellular protoplasmic processes; and Hertwig has attempted to explain the regularity of the distribution of the trunks, by suggesting that the cutaneous nerves have arisen from a subepithelial protoplasmic network, and that the motor nerves are formed by the drawing out and subsequent growth of very delicate protoplasmic con- nections which, at an early date, stretched between the cells of the embryonic cord and those of the closely contiguous muscle plates. The nerve-trunks are formed, according to these theories, during the process of growth by the binding together of neighbouring protoplasmic threads in a common sheath. The sympathetic system. Very little is known of the details of the development of the sympathetic system. The ganglia appear to originate in common with the spinal ganglia, and the longitudinal commissural bands are described as uniting the ganglia at a later period. The method of origin of the roots, the branches of distribution, and the secondary ganglia has not yet been investigated. It may be suggested, however, from a consideration of the anatomical details that (1) the efferent fibres of the white roots grow to the ganglia from the cord, inasmuch as they break up into arborizations within the ganglia ; (2) that the secondary ganglia are derived from the chief ganglia, as many of the fibres of the white roots pass through the chief ganglia and terminate in the secondary ganglia; and (3) that the efferent branches of distribution grow from the ganglia as do the outgrowing afferent fibres from the spinal ganglia. The cranial nerves. With the exception of the optic nerve, which is derived from a special lobe of the brain, the cranial nerves develop, in the majority of cases, either from the neural crest, or as direct out- growths from the brain. As in the case of those which are associated with the cord, the cranial arans-lia lose their original connections with the dorsal border and become attached to the side of the neural axis. At their outer extremities,