GENEEAL ANATOMY. 8 parts from its sister-loop in such a manner that the central or curved portions travel to opposite poles, and form a double starry figure or dyaster. (5) The protoplasm is divided into two masses, one round each new star, while the stars give place to the appearance of nuclei at rest.^ The cell-wall is a structure which in certain instances is formed round the nucleated corpuscles. It is seen, for example, distinctly round the columnar epithelial cells of the intestine. Many corpuscles used to be supposed to have cell-walls round them, which are now definitely known to have none. In the case of the adipose vesicle, the wall is formed out of the protoplasm by alteration of its substance; but in most instances there is not sufficient evidence that it is formed in that way, and not by deposit thrown out, like other matrix in which corpuscles lie. It may be questioned if, in their young condition, the corpuscles of animals have ever any cell-wall round them. Nucleated corpuscles in the textures may be (1) Massed together with little apparent cement, as in epithelia and embryonic textures. (2) Embedded in a matrix, as in connective tissue, cartilage and bone. (3) Elongated into fibres, each derived from {a) one corpuscle, as in smooth muscular fibre, or (b) a row of corpuscles as in striped muscular fibre, and perhaps, or even probably, in nerve. Nucleated corpuscles are also found floating free, as in blood and lymph. THE BLOOD. Blood consists of two parts, the plasma or liquor sanguinis, and the blood-corpuscles. The plasma is broadly divisible into serum and fibrin, and the corpuscles into red corpuscles and white. A rough analysis showing those constituents may be made by collecting blood from a wound into an ice-cold vessel. The cold prevents coagulation taking place; the red corpuscles gravitate to the lower part of the vessel, and the plasma is left clear and straw-coloured above, while on further standing a slight milkiness may be noticed near the surface, caused by the white corpuscles rising to the top. On raising the temperature, the plasma forms a trans- parent coagulum, and the coagulated fibrin gradually contracts so as to separate from the edges of the glass and present a concave surface, while, in the concavity and round about, the serum expelled from the contracting mass is collected. A similar sequence of events takes place, without the precaution of chilling, in various conditions of human blood, as well as normally in the blood of the horse. Practitioners, in the days when ^ For the literature of mitosis and of histology generally the student may be referred to the sixth edition of Kulliker's Handhuch der Gewebelehre des Menschen, and to the tenth edition of Quain's Elements of Anatomy.