165 THE INNOMINATE BONE AND PELVIS. feriorly, the auricula?' surface for articulation with the sacrum; superiorly, a rough elevated part giving origin to the dorsal sacro-iliac ligament; and between the two a sinuous depression free from ligament, and ending behind between the two posterior spines. The auricular surface is some- what crumpled, like the corresponding surface of the sacrum, broader in front than behind, with a retreating angle looking upwards and backwards, and its lower margin horizontal. The ischium is most massive where it forms the back part of the acetabulum. On its posterior border, behind the acetabulum, there projects backAvards and inwards a compressed process, the spine, which at its extremity is continued into the small sacro-sciatic ligaments, and on its deep and superficial surfaces respectively gives attachment to the coccygeus and gemellus superior muscles, without being marked by them. Beneath the spine is the small sciatic notch, with a smoothly grooved surface, over which the tendon of the obturator internus muscle turns, and bounded inferiorly by the tuberosity. The tuberosity projects downwards and backwards, and tapers forwards beneath into the ramus. The main surface of the tuberosity is divisible into a close-grained quadrate upper part for the hamstring muscles, and a rougher lower part continued into the ramus and giving attachment to the adductor magnus muscle. The cjuadrate upper part is divided by a diagonal line into a lower and inner portion which gives attachment to the combined origin of the semi- tendinosus muscle and the long head of the biceps, and an upper and outer portion from which the semimembranosus tendon arises. Above this surface the gemellus inferior arises, and, from the rough external margin, the c[uadratus femoris; while to its inner margin the great sacro-sciatic ligament is attached. The ramus of the ischium, narrow and slender, prolonged from the lower part of the tuberosity, stretches forwards to meet the inferior ramus of the os pubis and complete the obturator foramen. Its lower border, continuous with the surface of the tuberosity devoted to the adductor magnus, gives origin to the upper fibres of that muscle, while its upper border is continuous with the anterior border of the main body of the ischium, and like it enters into the formation of the thin edge of the obturator foramen. On its deep side it gives attachment to the obturator internus muscle, and on its superficial side to the obturator externus muscle, whose fibres, as they pass outwards, are gathered together and lie in the broad groove between the acetabulum and tuberosity. The OS pubis forms the fore part of the acetabulum and the anterior portion of the brim of the pelvis, and presents an elongated oval surface for articulation with its fellow of the opposite side by means of an imperfect joint called the syraphysis pubis. It joins with the ischium, both externally and internally, so as to surround with it the obturator foramen; and in its whole extent its pelvic or deep aspect is smooth, as is also that of the ischium.