614 THE BRAIN. as it ascends in the tegmentum, has a number of nerve-corpuscles scattered through it; it presents a reddish-grey appearance termed the red nucleus, and, more in front, under the optic thalamus, in contact with the crusta, a group of nerve-corpuscles, described as corpus suhtlialamicum by Luys. The fillets, travelling up with an outward inclination, divide each into a lateral and a mesial part. The lateral fillet appears for a short distance on the surface, and then crosses over the superior peduncle of the cere- bellum to enter the inferior corpora quadrigemina. The mesial fillet spreads out and sweeps round to join the crusta. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum, on reaching the corpora quadrigemina, turn down by the outside of the posterior longitudinal bundles, cross the mesial plane, decussating one with the other, and reach the red nucleus, whence they pass on to the optic thalami along with other fibres. Section of anterior tvibercle of corpora quadrigemina Fig. 445.—Section through Corpora Quadrigemina and Crura Cerebri. (Bouchard, after Stilling.) The optic thalamus consists of a continuous mass of grey matter with only a thin layer of white matter, stratum zonale, on its surface, and thin and partial septa dividing it into mesial, lateral and anterior nuclei, besides a small collection of large corpuscles beneath the pineal crus, ganglion hahenulae, whence a band {fasciculus retroflexus of Meinert) descends through the tegmentum to the region of the posterior perforated spot. The optic thalamus has the back part of the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum external to it above, and the internal capsule beneath and external to it, and sends out fibres to radiate with those of the internal capsule to different parts of the cortex of the hemisphere {crura and ansae of authors). i The corpora striata have three very distinguishable nuclei—nucleus caudatus, nucleus lenticularis and claustrum. The nucleus caudatus is the part which looks into the lateral ventricle, and is separated from the nucleus lenticularis by white matter called internal capsule. The internal capsule is seen in horizontal section to change its direction opposite the