574- THE NERVES. through the ganglion of the sympathetic chain, and terminate in arborizations I within one or other of the secondary ganglia. While the description above given deals with the arrangement of fibres in a hypothetically complete . segmental nerve it is to be noted that probably the cervical, and the | lower lumbar, and some of the sacral nerve roots, do not contain any ^sympathetic portion. The somatic branches show in their origin and distribution a regular segmental type. The splanchnic or visceral branches, on the other hand, exhibit but little evidence of a segmental arrangement. On the one side of the sympathetic ganglia the branches of connection with the cord or white rami have been found in a number of mammals experimentally investigated, particularly in the dog, cat, and rabbit, to occur only in the thoracic and upper lumbar regions; on the other side of the ganglia, the somatic branches of distribution or grey rami are regular and seg- mental in their arrangement. The nerves which spring from the brain cannot, like those which take origin from the cord, be clearly arranged in correspondence with a series of consecutive segments; their fibres, however, may be classified as belonging to groups which are to be compared to the dorsal gangliated afferent, the ventral gangliated efferent, and the ventral non-gangliated efferent groups of a typical segmental nerve. In studying the arrangement and distribution of the fibres it is to be remembered that the only muscles of the head which are formed from structures homologous to the niesoblastic somites are those of the orbits. The muscles of mastication and the facial muscles are formed in the lateral mesoblast. Certain of the cranial efferent nerves, the fibres of which, from their distribution to glandular structures, and to muscles developed from the general mesoblast, seem to correspond to those of the ventral gangliated group of a spinal nerve, have, in the adult, no ganglia in connection with their roots; but in each of these instances traces of ganglionic substance have been found in the embryo, suggesting an origin from a primitive ganglion, and in connection with the branches of distribution one or more distal ganglia are found in the adult. The following classification of the cranial nerves must be regarded as purely a hypothetical one; it differs in a number of points from that put forward by Gaskell. The third, or oculo-motor, nerve is chiefly made up of fibres which correspond to those of the non-gangliated efferent group of a typical segmental nerve. It suf)plies muscles which are formed from the first mesoblastic somite of the head. Its fibres to the ciliary ganglion and from thence to the ciliary muscle probably correspond to those of the gangliated efferent group of fibres of a segmental nerve. Gaskell has discovered in its trunk traces of embryonic ganglionic substance. In com- paring the third to a typical segmental nerve, it is to be noted that afferent fibres are wanting, those corresponding to gangliated efferent are few in number, and that those corresponding to the non-gangliated efferent form