580 CEREBRO-SPINAL MEMBRANES. venous radicles are gathered together in the pia mater into large trunks. The pia mater consists of these arteries and veins, together with a small amount of white fibrous tissue, partly in the form of bands with elastic fibres wound round them. It adheres closely to the surface of the nerve-substance, being folded in so as to be applied to the walls of the anterior longitudinal fissure of the cord and of the sulci of the cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum, and mingles with every nerve-root. ^ It also dips into the interior of the brain at two places, namely, the transverse fissure and the fourth ventricle, forming vascular fringes, called choroid plexuses, to be described with the details of the brain. The pia mater of the spinal cord has its fibrous tissue strengthened at certain places to form longitudinal bands. One of these is a shining thread in the middle line in front {linea splendens); another, broader, called ligamenttm denticulatum, runs down on each side between the anterior and posterior roots of nerves, and gets its name from being attached to the dura mater between the roots of each nerve and those of the nerve below by a slender but firm thread clothed with the arachnoid, which is thus thrown into a denticulated line. There are about twenty-one such denticulations—the first placed above the sub- occipital nerve and in front of the vertebral artery; the last about the level of the first lumbar vertebra. Inferiorly the fibres of both liga- mentum denticulatum and linea splendens are continued into a thread called Jdiim terminate, extending downwards from the extremity of the cord. In the middle line, behind the cord, a network of trabeculae, partly single, partly double, extends from between the posterior nerve- roots of opposite sides, across the subarachnoid space, back to the arachnoid membrane, and is described as the septum posticum of the subarachnoid space. THE SPINAL CORD. The spinal cord [medidla spinalis) is continuous above with the part of the brain called medulla oblongata, which passes into it without any line of separation. It extends very constantly from the foramen magnum to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, varying usuall}^ between 16 and 18 inches in actual length. It is of generally cylindrical form, but with diff'erences of size and shape at difi'erent levels. It is circular in section in the greater part of the thoracic region, and |th inch or more in diameter, while it is of slightly greater transverse breadth at its commencement. But it has two enlargements —the cervical and the lumbar. The cervical enlargement extends from near the commencement, as far as the emergence of the first thoracic nerve, and is characterized by increase in transverse breadth. It is the part which furnishes the roots of the nerves from which the large trunks (brachial plexus) for the supply of the upper limb arise. The lumbar enlargement is less noticeable, being caused by expansion all round, but to