GENERAL ANATOMY. 7G scales on the surface of the cortex so arranged as to have the appearance of a network, each scale having its advanced edge convex and free, while its lower edge is covered bv the next scale. The free edges project very slightly in the human subject, but to such an extent that when two hairs laid side by side pointing in opposite directions are rubbed between finger and thumb, they move each in the direction of its root. To see the epithelium on the shaft properly a hair should be cleansed with chloroform and examined in air : but over the root it is much thicker, the scales being much more closely imbricated. The medulla, in the centre of the shaft, is a columu of uncompressed and unelongated corpuscles having a granular appearance and often containing minute air-globules. It is not developed in the small hairs over the body: and in many persons Avith fine hair is absent even from the hairs of the scalp, or occurs in interrupted patches. It is easily studied in split hairs from the beard. Pigment occurs in very variable degree in hair, and where present is most abundant in the root. In the shaft it is more abundant in the cortex than in the medulla, and is found both in the granular form and evenly diffused. It is granular in black and brown hair, and *a diffused staining in red hair. But hairs of a brilliant shade have the additional peculiarity that the meduUa is well developed and full of minute air- globules which reflect the light. A certain proportion of such, mixed with a larger number of a duller hue and with less- developed medulla, are sufficient to warm up the apparent effect of the whole. The silvery white of old age owes its brilliance to the same cause, and one may some- times see a hair swollen with air and white in one part of its extent, while it is slenderer and coloured in a portion above or below. The essential part of the whitening of the hair from age is the disappearance of the pigment, which usually takes place simultaneously with the development of air in the medulla, and often, in individual hairs, in a sinsle niorht. The form of the shaft of the hair varies both in different Fig. 71.—Hair. a. Papilla covered by ceUs of the bulb; b, follicle; c, d, outer and inner cuticular sheath, the imbri- cated layer not being represented; e. cortex; /, medulla; g. epithelium ; g'. epithelium in optical section : h, i>art of hair becoming white by disappearance of pigment from cortex, and the diameter of the hair increased by evohition of air in the medulla.