243 THE SHAPE OF THE SKULL. females of civilized nations, the longest, up to nearly 6 inches, in males of savage race.^ Individual peculiarities or idiosyncrasies tend to affect the roof more than the base. Thus individually large skulls differ from others by elongation and broadening of the vault, the former circumstance depress- ino; the external occipital protuberance in relation to the plane of the foramen magnum, and still more in its apparent position during life, in consequence of the increased weight of brain taking place in such a manner that the head is more thrown back in balancing it. Sometimes an unusual separation of the frontal eminences, with consequent increased breadth of forehead at the coronal suture to such an extent as almost to «qual the greatest breadth of the whole cranium, occurs in conjunction with permanence of the frontal suture, as if increased growth of the fore part of the brain had led to that suture remaining open; though it is to be noted that there is another set of skulls with open frontal suture in which no deviation from the usual form is present. Local differences in surface-form {bumps of popular phraseology) are of infinite variety. The skull is never perfectly symmetrical, and in some individuals the want of symmetry is very marked. Other pecu- liarities arise from circumstances more or less pathological, especially from si/nostosis, or premature closure of sutures which usually rem-ain open. Thus there is a characteristic Cretin skull,^ dependent on pre- mature synostosis of the base. In another deformity, called scaphocephaliis, the arch is low and enormously elongated in the parietal region, which is also low and narrow, the whole peculiarity depending on prenatal oblitera- tion of the sagittal suture, and growth at the lambdoidal and coronal sutures to compensate; so also trigonocephalus with sharp mesial promin- ence of a narrow forehead, results from early obliteration of the frontal suture (Welcker). A high form, acrocephalus, with shallow orbits, depends in like manner on synostosis of the lateral parts of the coronal suture. The cranial capacity owes its interest rather to affording an approx- imate indication of the bulk of the encephalon than to its osteological importance. Much precaution is necessary for its correct estimation, and probably the method first used by Allen Thomson, filling the skull with turnip seed, is the most accurate and convenient. The cranial ^ In making racial measurements, a series of words mostly new have come into use, among which may be mentioned nasion, the middle of the fronto-nasal suture ; ohdion, the vertex ; ophryon, the glabella ; bregma, the middle point of the coronal suture; lambda, the apex of the lambdoid suture; inion, the external occipital protuberance ; basion, the front of the foramen magnum ; opisfMon, the back of the foramen magnum; pterion, the position of the spheno-parietal suture; stephanion, the point where the temporal ridge crosses the coronal suture ; aaterion, where the occipital fits in between parietal and mastoid. - First described by Virchow, who, however, was completely mistaken as to the nature of the deformity, attributing it to increased curvature of the base and calling it kyphosis. It presents, as I pointed out, greatly deficient curvature of the base.