THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. 482 The haemorrJioidal plexus lies immediately under the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum, and communicates in front with the vaginal or prostatic plexus. The veins which pass from it are the superior haemorrhoidals of the portal system, the middle haemorrhoidals passing to the internal iliacs, and the inferior haemorrhoidals joining the pudics. The vaginal plexus surrounds the lower part of the vagina; it receives branches from the vagina and from the uterus, but the latter veins have also a free connection with the pampiniform plexus, formed between the layers of the broad ligament by the ovarian veins. The vesical plexus surrounds the whole bladder, lying under cover of the peritoneal coat. Yesical veins pass from it to the internal iliac veins; and it communicates below with the vaginal or prostatic plexus. The prostatic plexus surrounds the base and sides of the prostate gland, and is covered by the sheath from the recto-vesical fascia; it communicates above with the vesical plexus, and receives from the front the dorsal vein of the penis. The dorsal vein of the penis, a single median vessel, commences in a set of veins which form a circle round the base of the glans. It passes back- wards along the dorsum of the organ, receiving both superficial and deep branches. At the base of the penis it gives off on each side a slender branch of communication to the pudic veins, and is then continued back- wards through the triangular ligament to the prostatic plexus. The internal pudic veins. Two small venae comites accompany the pudic artery and terminate in the internal iliac vein. They receive veins from the corpus cavernosum and the bulb, and the perineal and inferior haemorrhoidal veins. The obturator, sciatic, and gluteal veins fall into the internal iliac vein. The external iliac vein (Fig. 360) extends from the level of Poupart's ligament to a spot opposite the sacro-iliac articulation, where it unites with the internal iliac vein. Below it is internal to the artery; higher up it is internal and posterior to it. It usually contains one or two valves. It receives as tributaries the deep epigastric and deep circumflex iliac veins, vessels which accompany the similarly named arteries. THE PORTAL SYSTEM OF YEINS. The veins from the abdominal and pelvic portions of the intestinal canal and those from the spleen, pancreas, and gall bladder carry their blood to the portal vein, a vessel which enters the liver, and there ramifies like an artery, its capillaries, along with those of the hepatic artery, eventually opening into the hepatic veins. In the adult there are no valves in the portal vein nor in any of its tributaries. The portal vein (Fig. 361), about three inches in length, commences at the confluence of the superior mesenteric and splenic veins, behind the