432 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. thorax it crosses behind the subclavian vein, and is crossed in front, from without inwards, by the phrenic nerve. Within the thorax it lies on the deep surface of the internal intercostal muscles, and is at first in contact with the pleura behind, but lower down it is separated from the pleura by the triangularis sterni muscle. Two veins accompany it in the greater part of its course, but join with one another above to form a single vessel which lies by its inner side. The branches of the artery are numerous, but small. The comes nerd phrenici, a long slender vessel, accompanies the phrenic nerve to the dia- phragm, giving off slender twigs to the pericardium and pleura. The mediastinal, pericardial, and stenud branches form three sets of minute anastomosing vessels. The arderior iidercostals, two in each of the first six intercostal spaces, run backwards, first on the deep surface of the internal intercostal muscles, and afterwards between the internal and external laj-ers, to anastomose with the main intercostals and their collateral branches. The perforating branches, one in each of the first six intercostal spaces, become subcutaneous by the side of the sternum; the middle two or three of them supply the mammary gland, and are often much enlarged. The rnusculo-phrenic, one of the terminal branches, inclines out- wards, downwards, and backwards behind the cartilages of the seventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, and, becoming much reduced in size, perforates the attachment of the diaphragm about the- level of the tenth rib; it gives off anterior intercostals for two or three spaces, and, to the diaphragm, a number of muscular branches which anastomose with branches of the inferior phrenic artery. The supjerior epigastric, the other terminal division, enters the abdominal wall b}' the side of the ensiform process, descends behind the rectus muscle, within its sheath, and finally enters the substance of the muscle to anastomose with the deep epigastric artery. It gives off numerous small branches, muscular, cutaneous, and peritoneal in their dis- tribution, and some which pass backwards within the fold of the falciform ligament to the liver. As a not infrequent abnormality, a branch of mod- erate size has been found springing from the upper part of the internal mammary, and descending on the inner aspect of the chest wall at some little distance from the main trunk; it has been named the infracostal artery. (4) The superior intercostal artery arises, usually, from the back of the second part of the subclavian, close to the inner margin of the anterior scalene muscle, but frequently, however, especially on the left side, it springs from the first part of the main vessel. It passes at first backwards and gives off its deep cervical branch ; it then descends over the neck of the first rib, lying internal to the sympathetic nerve, and supplies the first two intercostal spaces after the manner of an aortic intercostal. The deep cerdcol hra/rtch passes back- w^ards, between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, and, ascending behind the transverse processes, between the origins of the complexus and multifidus spinae, terminates by anasto- mosing with the ramus cervicalis princeps of the occipital artery. It gives