THE SKELETON. 132 lateral masses in the fifth or sixth year. The odontoid process of the axis is, as has been explained, in reality, part of the first vertebra, being developed round the notochord which was continued through it into the base of the skull: but it presents in the human subject a pair of centres of ossification, which, before the seventh month, unite to form a centrum larger than the proper centrum of the axis. This mass bears trace of its double origin in presenting a mesial notch above and below, and not only forms the odontoid process but extends some distance lower than the level of the superior articular surfaces of the axis. The proper centrum of the axis has also been recently seen in the form of a pair of separate nodules in the sixteenth week, and of a bilobate nucleus in the seventeenth (Macalister, 1894). In four instances out of thirty-one, Macalister has found in the axis an ossification intervening in the fore part of the interval between pedicle and centrum, interesting as apparently homologous with the anterior ossifications of the atlas. A separate nodule is sometimes seen at the summit of the odontoid process, and in young monkeys a complete cap may be found in this situation. The interval between the odontoid cen- trum and the centrum proper of the axis becomes limited by smooth surfaces before disappearing, and, within it, a certain amount of osseous deposit takes place. But the interval disappears altogether, both in front and behind, although on section it is often observable in the adult bone (Cunningham). In various animals, as in the sheep, a more notable centre of ossification forms a wedge ventrally placed between the odontoid process and the axis proper; and in a young polar bear I observe both the inferior epiphysis of the odontoid process and the superior epiphysis of the centrum of the axis distinct. In the ribs ossification begins about the same time as in the vertebrae, a h c d e f Fig. 138.—Sterna at Different Ages, showing varieties of ossification, a, In third month of foetal life, before ossification has set in ; h, from an older foetus showing a very peculiar set of centres of ossification ; c, d, e, varieties of osseous centres in three sterna of infants ; /, from a child (J), showing the lower part of the mesostenium in two lateral parts, with a foramen in the middle. from a single centre. A small epiphysis at the head and another at the tubercle appear about the eighteenth year, and, like those of the vertebrae^ are united with the main bone about the twenty-fifth year.