547 THE INFEEIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. external pterygoid muscle, and then bends forwards on the deep surface of the insertion of the temporal muscle, which it sometimes pierces. Escaping from under cover of the ramus it ramifies in the fat of the cheek, forming communications with the facial nerve ; its terminal branches, which are sensory, supply the mucous membrane of the cheek, and the skin at the angle of the mouth. Near its origin it detaches the external pterygoid nerve and the anterior deep temporal nerve. The external pterygoid nerve arises with the buccal branch and enters the deep surface of the external pterygoid muscle. The deep temporal nerves are commonly three in number. The anterior usually springs from the buccal nerve, and ascends on the outer surface of the upper head of the external pterj^goid muscle; the middle springs directly from the parent trunk and ascends on the deep surface of the external pterygoid muscle; the pos- terior arises in common with the masseteric branch. They all enter the temporal muscle from its deep surface. The posterior portion^ which is chiefly sensory, breaks up into three important trunks—the auriculo-temporal, the inferior dental, and the lingual. The auriculo-temporal nerve (Fig. 409) arises by two roots which pass backwards and join with one another, embracing between them the middle meningeal artery; the nerve then bends upwards on the deep surface of the temporo-maxillary articulation, passes through the parotid gland^ and crosses the zygoma, lying behind the temporal artery and on its deep surface. Continuing its course it ascends in front of the ear and breaks up into long slender terminal branches. Near its origin it detaches {a) communicating twigs to the otic ganglion, (h) two communicating branches to the temporo-maxillary division of the facial nerve, (c) some branches to the parotid gland, and (d) a nerve to the temporo-maxillary articulation. As it is crossing the zygoma it detaches (e) tiuo nerves to the meatus; these branches, very slender and lying close to the bone, enter the external auditory canal, and are distributed to the integument lining it, the upper of the two furnishing a branch to the tympanic membrane. As the nerve passes in front of the external ear (/) two auricular branches are given off; these nerves supply the skin of the tragus and the anterior part of the helix. The terminal or temporal branches ascend with the branches of the temporal artery superficial to which they lie; they supply the integument of the region above and in front of the ear, and form communications with branches of the facial nerve. The inferior dental nerve (Fig. 409) is the largest branch of the inferior maxillary trunk; it is not entirely sensory as it detaches a muscular twig to the mylo-hyoid and the anterior belly of the digastric. It passes downwards and outwards behind the lingual nerve to reach the inferior dental canal, descending at first under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and after- wards resting upon the internal pterygoid, on the deep surface of the ramus. Within the canal it is continued forwards almost to the middle line, detach- ing branches which, after communicating with one another and furnishing