19 THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. substance from the vessels of the others. If it be carefully stained with carmine, and the oil be then removed from it by chloroform or some •other solvent, a number of nuclei will be seen in every patch of vesicles, some of them oval and belonging to the capillary walls, while others are circular, with or without adherent protoplasm, and belong one to each vesicle. The solidity of adipose tissue depends on the walls of the vesicles, together with their surroundings, being saturated with watery fluid, with which the oil cannot mix. But if a jjiece of adipose tissue from the human subject be exposed on a j^late, the watery fluid evaporates, and the oil impregnates the shrivelled tissue and soon gathers in a pool. This does not occur with the adipose tissue of the sheep, because in it the oil in the vesicles is solidified at the ordinary temperature of the air. Adipose vesicles make their appearance early in the fifth month of foetal life. Previous to that date glycogen is abundant in the tissues, but it subsequently diminishes in quantity as adipose tissue becomes developed. Originally the adipose vesicles are rounded unwalled nucleated corpuscles, leuco- cytes, in fact, as may be seen to advantage by examining the mesentery of a kitten at birth, when little heaps of these corpuscles can be seen occupying the positions afterwards occupied by collections of adipose vesicles. The oil appears in them first in minute molecules, some of which get larger, as may be judged from other corpuscles containing one or more distinct globules, besides minuter particles. The globules run together into one, while the protoplasm is changed in character, being gradually converted into the wall of a vesicle, and the nucleus is thrown to one side and ultimately flattened. This process can be studied with advantage not only in the foetus, but in the bodies of emaciated adults : and the number of corpuscles Fig. is.—Portion of fat Lobule , . - . \ . . from axilla of a much emaciated which may m such circumstances be sometimes young man. cToidt.) seen with the nucleus and protoplasm distinct seems to point to increased activity of the tissues in connection with the absorption of oil into the circulation. CAETILAGE. Cartilage is sometimes classed with the connective tissues and its close relation to these is shown in the changes which it undergoes in ossification, in the structure of intervertebral discs, and in other ways. But typical or hyaline cartilage is a texture with very distinctive features.