THE MUSCLES. 304 into the fascia of the leg; at the outer side it is fixed to the head of the fibula and the external tuberosity of the tibia; and in front, becoming blended with the insertions of the quadriceps muscle, it is attached to the patella, assisting to form the lateral patellar ligaments and the capsule of the knee. A thin layer, sweeping over the patella, incloses the large prepatellar bursa which, when inflamed and swollen, is the seat of the afl'ection known as " housemaid's knee." The fascia, which is generally strong, is specially strengthened on the outer aspect of the thigh, where it receives the attachment of the greater part of the gluteus maximus muscle and of the tensor vaginae femoris. From the insertion of the latter muscle at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh, a strong portion of the fascia, described as the ilio-tibial band, passes downwards and is attached partly to the external tuberosity of the tibia and partly to the patella, assisting to form the external lateral patellar ligament. The external intermuscular septum of the thigh is closely con- nected with the deep surface of the ilio-tibial band; it passes to the linea aspera between the biceps and vastus externus muscles, affording origin to both, and is specially strong at its lower end where it reaches the back of the external condyle of the femur. On the deep aspect of the tensor vaginae femoris a strong process of the fascia passes upwards and is attached, in association with a band of tendinous fibres from the tendon of the gluteus minimus, into the capsule of the hip-joint and the acetabular margin at the place of origin of the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. On the posterior aspect of the limb a strong layer passes on the deep surface of the gluteus maximus, assisting to inclose the muscle and affording origin to many of its fibres. A delicate posterior intermuscular septum is sometimes described as passing to the linea aspera behind the adductor muscles. The fascia is weakest over the inner region of the thigh. The internal intermuscular septum, much weaker than the outer, passes to the linea aspera between the vastus internus and the adductor muscles, and becomes blended with the sheath of the femoral vessels. Closely associated with the femoral sheath and the internal intermuscular septum is the short passage in the middle third of the thigh, known as Huntefs canal. The canal is formed in the angle between the attachment of the vastus internus in front, and those of the adductor magnus and adductor longus behind, by strong tendinous fibres which pass between the muscles and limit a passage, three-sided, in cross section, which trans- mits the femoral artery and vein and the long saphenous nerve. The canal extends upwards from the margin of the lowest perforation in the insertion of the adductor magnus for two or three inches, but its upper extremity is not well defined, as the tendinous fibres which complete its walls gradually become weaker and are continuous with the femoral sheath. The saphenous opening is a large perforation of the fascia on the anterior aspect of the thigh for the transmission of the saphenous vein and a number of smaller vessels. It is placed below the inner part of