THE HIP-JOINT. 187 The fibrous capsule {capsular ligament) is strong in front and on the outer and inner sides, but is weak behind. It does not, when laid bare, allow the opposed surfaces to fall separate, as does the capsule of the shoulder- joint. It arises from the outer surface of the wall of the acetabulum and from the base of the peripheral surface of the cotyloid ligament, as also from the transverse ligament, but leaves the notch uncovered for the passage of articular vessels. It is inserted in front into the whole length of the intertrochanteric line, and externally close to the insertion of the obturator externus muscle; but posteriorly, while it clothes the neck of the femur in the half nearest the head, it has no femoral insertion. The fibres going to the femur from in front of the notch of the acetabulum extend to the Fig. 180.—Left Hip-Joint from behind in the erect posture, a, Fibres from behind the notch of the acetabuhim, stretching obliquely upwards and out- wards and leaving the neck of the femur bare beyond h; c, rectus femoris; d, insertion of pyriformis; e, obturator internus ; /, gluteus medius ; g, gluteus minimus ; h, psoas magnus. Fig. 181.—Left Hip-Joint from the front, in the erect posture, a, Rectus femoris; b, pyriformis; c, gluteus medius; d, gluteus minimus ; from a to e, ilio- femoral ligament; /', Bigelow's ligament; from g to e, pubo-femoral band. inner end of the anterior intertrochanteric line, and those from behind the notch wind upwards to the trochanteric pit, while in the space between there" are none but circular fibres; so that the synovial membrane is left bare where it is reflected from the capsule to the back of the neck of the femur. Several strong bands of fibres strengthening the front of the capsule have received special names. The principal of these is the ilio- femoral ligament, arising from the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine, directed vertically downwards, so as to cross the neck of the femur obliquely, and inserted into the part of the intertrochanteric line on the inner border of the femoral shaft. The ilio-trochanteric fibres arise from the upper margin of the acetabulum, in close contact Avith the ilio-femora