THE SKELETON. 212 THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone forms the whole of the forehead, and also the roofs of the orhiU or hollows for the eyeballs, and is divisible into frontal and orbital plates. It will be ^better understood if compared at the outset with the frontals of some other animals, such as the dog or the sheep, when rt will be seen how the borders internal to the orbits have been, throughout the vertebrate series, anterior, while the roofs of the orbits are the lower parts of walls originally looking outwards; and that the peculiar form of the human frontal depends on the large development of the brain and the narrowness of the nose. In early childhood it consists, as in most adult vertebrates, apes and monkeys excepted, of a pair of bones united in the middle line by a frontal suture; and not unfrequently this suture persists in the serrated form throughout life. Borders. The border forming with the parietals the coronal suture is serrated and overlaps them above, while on each side the parietal overlaps the frontal below; and below the level of the parietal the border expands into a triangular surface looking downwards to articulate with the great wing of the sphenoid. In front of this triangle is the serrated extremity of the exteriial angular process, which articulates with the malar; while, internal to the triangle, the posterior border of the orbital plate articulates with the orbital wing of the sphenoid. Between these plates, the ethmoidal incisura, or notch^ extends forwards to the base of the frontal plate; it presents a large outer and a smaller inner margin, formed respectively by the outer and inner tables of the skull. Between these margins there is on each side of the incisura a row of shallow depressions, the roofs of air-cells in the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone, and, crossing transversely between them, two grooves, completing with that bone the internal orbital canals, the anterior of which gives passage to the nasal nerves. The margin internal to the cells articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, while the margin outside articulates in greater part with the orbital plate of the same bone, except for a short space in front, where it comes in contact with the lachrymal. In front of the lachrymal edge is a serrated margin curving forwards and inwards to the middle line, and articulating in its outer part with the superior maxil- lary, and in its inner with the nasal bone. In the middle line, in front of the incisura, the rough nasal spine projects down, articulating in front with the nasals, and behind with the central plate of the ethmoid. On each side of this is the opening into the frontal sinus, an air-cavity of variable and late development extending upwards and outwards over the orbits, lined with mucous membrane prolonged from the nose, and most extensive in the adult male. The surfaces of the frontal bone are the frontal, the orbital, and the cere- bral. The most prominent part of the convexity of the frontal surface on each side is called the frontal eminence; and above the orbit is an arched elevation, the superciliary ridge; while between the two superciliary ridges