641 THE NOSE. The olfactory tract has usually been described as coextensive with the turbinations and mesial plate of the ethmoid, but Max Schultze declared it to be limited to the level of the upper turbination, and the researches of V. Brunn have now made it certain that both the olfactory nerve and the olfactory part of the mucous membrane are confined to one continuous district, situated on the upper ethmoidal turbination without reaching either its lower edge or posterior extremity, and extending across the roof down over a similar area on the septum, the whole olfactory tract of both fossae being little more than a square inch in size. It has a non- ciliated columnar epithelium, which presents, besides deep cells, two sets of elongated cells stretching down through it; one, the proper columnar epithelial cells, are prolonged deeply in long dividing branches con- tinuous with the stroma beneath; the other, the olfactory attenuated rod-like structures between the larger columnar ^ cells, with their nuclei mostly ■ placed more deeply, and receive their name from their deep ' ^, extremities being supposed to be continuous with olfactory nerve-fibres, as has now been finally demonstrated to be really the case. Y. Brunn has distinctly made out in the human subject, what had been are li seen in the frog and other a be Fig. 472.—Olfactory Cells, o, Three epithehal cells, an olfactory cell and the peripheral process of another. A mem- brana limitans unites the free extremities of the cells; the olfactory cells are surmounted by olfactory hairs, and the middle epithelial cell by a structureless cap; 6, olfactory cell with deep process followed further; c, an olfactory cell prepared by the Golgi method, (v. Brunn.) animals, numbers of hair-like processes surrmounting the olfactory cells. He demon- strates also the existence of a delicate membrane, with apertures through which the hair-like processes project {external limiting membrane). The glands of the olfactory region (glands of Bowman) are tubes with dilated extremities and a tendency to convolution. In the human subject several are gathered to one outlet (Toldt), and the epithelium is cylindrical. The branches of the olfactory nerve, after piercing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, are arranged in a close network of branches. The nerve-fibres are non- medullated axis-cylinders, with nucleated primitive sheaths. As they approach the surface they break up into minute fibrils. The nasal fossae are supplied with blood, in the upper part by anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches of the nasal artery, and lower down by branches of the internal maxillary artery. They receive branches from Meckel's ganglion and, anteriorly, ofi'sets from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. 2s