THE SKELETON. 180 and outwards. Placed in front of it, in continuity with the groove for the interosseous ligament, and external to the surface for the head of the astragalus, is a rough depression which gives attachment to the extensor brevis digitorum and to the loop of the anterior annular ligament, and forms the floor of a recess on the dorsum of the foot, outside the head of the astragalus. Behind the surfaces for articula- tion with the astragalus, a stout neck projects backw^ards and ends in the tuberosity, which is traversed by the rough mark of the inser- tion of the tendo-Achillis and is smooth and close-grained above for a bursa, while below it is sub- A B Fig. 175.—Eight Calcaneum and Astragalus. A, Calcaneum from above. B, Astragalus from , rp-i v j. , below. a, a', Corresponding articular surfaces of CUtaueOUS. ine SUDCUtaueOUS part posterior calcaneo-astragalar articulation ; 6, h', cor- responding surfaces of calcaneo-astragalo-scaphoid articulation; h, is situated on tlie sustentaculum nlantar cjiirfapp anri ptiHci tliprp^ tali; c, on the body of the calcaneum is often united pianiai SLlIldCe, aOQ tnUS tnere with the sustentacular surface, and overhangs the surface for the cuboid ; e, surface of the head of the astragalus for the scaphoid ; and between U and e, the surface which presses on the inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament X, Marks where the tendon of ^^^^ which are attached the the flexor longus hallucis passes under the sustenta- -t^ culum; X', where it leaves the groove on the astragalus. is continued round upon the under or plantar surface, and ends there in an external and internal tubercle^ the internal the larger, to the fore plantar aponeurosis and the super- ficial plantar m^uscles. The rest of the plantar surface is occupied principally by the long plantar ligament, and has a depressed rim in front for Haversian glands of the calcaneo- cuboid joint. Internally, a broad channel between the tuberosity and the sustentaculum tali leads from the back of the leg to the sole of the foot; and beneath the sustentaculum tali there is a groove for the flexor longus hallucis, continuous with that on the back of the astragalus. Externally, the calcaneum is subcutaneous, but crossed by the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis, in connection with whose sheaths there are in some instances marks toward the fore part, the most frequent of which is a ridge or spine between them. The scaphoid or navicular bone is short from behind forwards, and has its longest diameter directed inwards and downwards. It pre- sents a large concave articular surface behind for the head of the astragalus, and in front has a con- vex articular surface divided by lines into three facets for the three cuneiform bones, the middle facet shaped and placed like the keystone Fig. 176.—Left Scaphoid. A, From behind. £ From the front.