VISCERA. 686 The pleurae present eaxh a parietal and a pulmonary part. The pul- monary ixirt closely invests the lung, and dips in between the principal lobes, the three of the right, the two of the left. It surrounds the root of the lung, lying in contact with it above, behind and in front, but forming below it a fold with an anterior and posterior layer, ligamenium latum pulmonis, reaching down towards the diaphragm, and attaching the inner surface of the lung to the pericardium. Although thin, the pleura is capable of being separated continuously from the surface of the lung. It has a large number of elastic fibres in its substance, and has independent branches of vessels ramifying through it from the neighbourhood of the root. It is subject also, especially along the sharp lines separating the surfaces, to pigmentary deposits such as are found in the pulmonary substance. The parietal part is applied to the costal walls, the diaphragm and the pericardium, and is arched above the level of the first rib, so as to come in contact with the subclavian artery and vein behind the clavicle; the right pleura usually reaching slightly further up than the left. The diaphragmatic floor is placed very decidedly on a higher level on the right side than on the left, but it may be mentioned, as a point which in former years often came under my notice in giving clinical instruction, that the left floor is more easily raised by pathological diminution of the lung above it than the right, owing to the stomach being raised more easily than the liver. The diaphragmatic and costal pleura are continued down as far as the attachments of the diaphragm allow, and are in contact one with the other below the level of the edge of the lung for a distance which increases in expiration, and decreases in inspiration, and is known as the costo-cliaphragmatk or costo-plirenic space. The posterior mediastinum, or the space between the pericardium and the vertebral column, is bounded on each side by pleura, the right pleura coming further forwards on the bodies of the vertebrae than the left, which leaves the column sooner, and, passing forwards, clothes the side of the descending aorta. Beneath the pleura the azygos veins lie on the bodies of the vertebrae, and on the right side the great vena azygos passes forwards above the root of the lung to open into the superior vena cava. The oesophagus lies in the middle of the posterior mediastinum, with the aorta descending at first on its left, and afterwards behind it; and the thoracic duct lies between the oesophagus and the right vena azygos till, near the upper part of the thorax, it crosses the middle line obliquely. The anterior mediastinum is bounded on each side by the reflection of the pleura from the costal wall to the pericardium. The line of reflection on each side comes nearly into contact with its neighbour in the mesial plane opposite the second intercostal space; but from this level that of the right pleura is continued downwards vertically while that of the left pleura slopes downwards and outwards in such a direction as to leave the pericardium at the apex of the heart in contact with the thoracic wall to