THE MIDDLE EAR. 671 muscle; and when the bone at this part is laid open, the perforation is seen to lead into a more dilated space for the stapedius muscle, passing down in front of the aqueduct of Fallopius and communicating with it below. Immediately in front of this, in the young subject the root of the styloid process may be made out sheathed by a lamina derived from the pars petrosa, and superficial to the pyramid is a foramen leading from the aqueduct of Fallopius and giving passage to the chorda tympani nerve. The ossicles of the ear, three in number—the malleus, the incus and the stapes—are joined together so as to connect the membrana tympani with the fenestra ovalis; and by swinging movements round a line joining two fixed points, one in front and the other behind, they regulate pressure on the internal ear, in harmony with the tension of the membrane. The malleus presents at its upper end a thick rounded head with an obliquely saddle shaped surface behind for synovial articulation with the incus, and is connected with the roof by a fold of mucous membrane which may contain fibres {ligamentum nuillei superius). The head is supported on a neck (or body) connected by an external ligament to the outer wall above the membrana tympani; and from the front of the neck a long processus gracilis extends forwards to end in a thin flattened extremity em- bedded in fibrous tissue {ligamentum anterius) in the fissure of Glaser. Immediately below the processus gracilis, the malleus is thickened by a sudden projection outwards, the processus brevis, whose summit is the uppermost point of attachment to the membrana tympani; and thence it descends as a stout prolongation, the manubrium or handle, compressed from before backwards and ending in a knob which furnishes a centre of radiation for fibres of the membrana tympani. The incus, placed behind the malleus, presents on the front of its thickest part or bodt/ a saddle-shaped surface fitting to that of the malleus. It sends out two processes. One, the posteriw ])rocess, is conical, and passes backwards to be attached at its extremity by ligamentous union in front of the descending part of the aqueduct of Fallopius. The other, the descending process, longer and cylindrical, is turned inwards abruptly at its extremity to end in an orbicular articular surface. This is the OS orbiculare of some older anatomists, and articulates synovially with the head of the stapes. The stapes lies horizontally between the fenestra ovalis and the orbicu- lar extremity of the descending process of the incus. Its base is a plate fitting against the vestibular aspect of the margin of the fenestra ovalis, united to it by membrane or annular ligament, so that when the stapes is pushed by the incus the ligament is tightened and the contents of the Fig. 506.—Tympanic Ossi- cles OF Eight Ear. a, Pro- cessus gracilis of malleus; h, posterior process of incus; the line ab is the axis of rotation. When c, the handle of the malleus, with fibres of the mtmbrana tym- pani radiating from its ex- tremity, is pulled inwards by e, the tendon of the tensor tympani, the incus likewise rotates and pushes d, the stapes, in at the fenes- tra ovalis; tendon of stapedius.