THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY. 429 verse process of the atlas, it turns backwards and inwards behind the superior articular process of that bone, occupying the groove on the posterior arch; then piercing the occipito-atlantal ligament, dura mater, and arachnoid, it reaches the side of the spinal cord. It then ascends through the foramen magnum, and runs forwards along the basilar process of the occipital bone, gradually approaching its fellow of the opposite side, with which, at the posterior border of the pons, it unites to form the basilar artery. Before entering the foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra, the artery lies between the origins of the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, and is covered in front by the internal jugular and vertebral veins. Ascending through the foramina, it passes in front of the issuing cervical nerve trunks, and is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic nerve, and by a venous plexus. As it turns backwards, before entering the spinal canal, it lies in the occipital triangle, and the posterior primary division of the suboccipital nerve passes out beneath it. Within the subarachnoid space, it crosses the side of the medulla immediately below the roots of the hypoglossal nerve. The branches of the vertebral artery in the neck are all of small size. The spinal branches pass towards the spinal canal, where they divide, supplying the bony walls, the membranes, and the cord. Numerous muscular branches ramify among the deeper muscles of the neck, and anastomose with branches of the ascending cervical, deep cervical, and occipital arteries. When piercing the dura mater the artery gives off a small meningeal branch, which ramifies in the posterior fossa of the skull. The posterior spinal branch is detached as the vertebral artery enters the cranium. It runs downwards upon the side of the cord, and divides into two slender vessels which form the commencement of lateral anastomotic chains of arteries. The anterior spinal artery arises near the extremity of the vertebral. It passes backwards upon the medulla, and unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form a median anastomotic arterial vessel, which runs down- wards upon the cord. The posterior inferior cerebellar artery arises between the spinal arteries. It passes over the restiform body and reaches the vallecula, where it breaks up into branches, some of which supply the inferior surface of the cerebellum, while others ramify in the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. The arteries of the spinal canal and spinal cord. Lateral arteries running along the issuing nerves enter the canal. They are derived from the vertebral, deep cervical, intercostal, lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries. Each artery on reaching the canal divides into two branches, one of which ramifies on the bony wall, while the other, piercing the mem- branes, is continued towards the cord. The successive branches which ramify upon the bony walls communicate with one another and with the corre- sponding vessels of the opposite side, with the result that three longitudinal arterial anastomotic chains, one median and two lateral, communicating freely with one another by transverse branches, are formed on the posterior