THE NERVES. 534 The internal plantar nerve (Fig. 398), the larger of the divisions of the posterior tibial, is comparable in its distribution to the median nerve in the hand. Concealed at first by the abductor hallucis, it afterwards runs forwards between that muscle and the flexor digitorum brevis, furnishing branches to both, and detaching a number of cutaneous twigs, which appear superficially along the line of the internal intermuscular septum. Opposite the base of the first metatarsal bone it gives off the plantar cutaneous branch for the inner side of the great toe, which nerve on its way forwards detaches a twig to the flexor hallucis brevis muscle. About the middle of the foot the internal plantar nerve breaks up into three digital branches. The first furnishes a twig to the first lumbricalis muscle, and divides into plantar branches for the contiguous sides of the first and second toes. The second divides into branches for the contiguous sides of the second and third toes; it occasionally supplies the second lumbricalis muscle. The third, after receiving a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve, supplies the con- tiguous sides of the third and fourth toes. The plantar digital nerves supply the plantar surfaces of the toes, and each detaches a dorsal branch which ramifies under the nail. To sum up, the internal plantar nerve supplies muscular hranches to the flexor digitorum brevis, the abductor hallucis, the flexor hallucis brevis, the first lumbricalis, and, occasionally, the second lumbricalis. Its cutaiteous hranches (a) ramify on the inner portion of the sole, and (b) form the plantar digital nerves of the first, second, and third toes, and the inner side of the fourth. The external plantar nerve (Fig. 398), comparable to the ulnar in the hand, is directed obliquely outwards in the sole between the flexor brevi& digitorum and the flexor accessorius, in company with the external plantar artery. It supplies on its way muscular branches to the flexor accessorius and abductor minimi digiti muscles, and furnishes one or two cutaneous twigs, which reach the surface along the line of the external intermuscular septum. Opposite the base of the fifth metatarsal bone it divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch divides into outer and inner portions. The outer portion detaches offsets to the flexor minimi digiti brevis, and, as a rule, to the interosseous muscles of the fourth space, and is afterwards continued as the plantar cutaneous nerve of the outer side of the little toe. The inner branch, after giving off" a slender twig to join the outermost digital branch of the internal plantar nerve, divides to supply the contiguous sides of the fourth and fifth toes. The deep branch of the external plantar nerve bends forwards and inwards, in company with the plantar arterial arch, on the deep surface of the flexor tendons. It is entirely muscular in its distribution, supplying the^ three outer lumbricales, the interosseous muscles of the three inner spaces, the adductor hallucis, and the transversus pedis.