61 BLOODVESSELS. When two vessels unite, either to form a third vessel receiving its blood from both, or a communication in which the direction of the current may vary from time to time, they are said to anastomose. Arteries for the most part anastomose by means of small twigs only, as in the face and neck they do across the middle line, or as do the terminal twigs of branches given off at different levels in the limbs; but in the mesentery the main branches unite in arches from the convexities of which other branches arise to form arches in like manner; and at the base of the skull two large trunks, the vertebral arteries, unite to form one mesial vessel, the basilar. Arteries generally continue of precisely the same calibre as long as they give off no branch, but the spermatic artery increases in size. In most instances, when an artery divides, the sum of the sectional area of its divisions exceeds the area of the undivided trunk; and by the following out of this rule, the total arterial channel enlarges and the rate of flow of the blood diminishes from the heart, till the capillaries are reached ; but an exception to the rule occurs at the division of the aorta into the two common iliac arteries. In the smallest order of arteries, arterioles, those which lead into the capillaries, it is easy to see under the microscope, (1) the oval nuclei of the endothelial scales of the tunica intima elongated in the direction of the vessel, (2) the muscular fibres of the tunica media lying in a single layer, the individual fibres some- times wrapped twice or more round the vessel (Fig. 37), their nuclei crossing it transversely, and (3) spindle-shaped nucleated corpuscles lying longitudinally and represent- ing the tunica adventitia. The larger arteries, as also the larger veins, have in their walls small vessels for the nourishment of their structure, which are termed , . ^ . ^ Artery; 6, vein ; c, arteriole passing into capillary. Vasa vaSOrum. Nerves also are found Corpuscles of outer coat spindle-shaped, muscular . ^^ o ^ fibres transverse, nuclei of endothelium oval. in plexuses m the walls of at least all bloodvessels in whose walls there are muscular fibres. The capillaries vary from about ^J^^th to o-oVo^^ i^^^ diameter; the smallest appear smaller than blood-corpuscles, but it is to be remembered that they are capable of elastic expansion, and that the blood-corpuscles change their shape in traversing narrow channels. They intercommunicate so as to form a continuous network with meshes which vary in different tissues. Thus, the lungs have the widest capillaries arranged in the closest meshwork, while poorly vascular tissues have narrow capillaries and the meshes large. c a h Fig. 58.—Arteriole and Venous Radicle, a.