154 THE SKELETON. formation, being separated from the head of the scapula by only a bursal prolongation of the synovial membrane, so that it may be said to perforate the capsule. Another perforation exists between the greater and smaller tuberosity, where the upper part of the bicipital groove is converted by short transverse fibres into a canal for the passage of the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle.^ The synovial membrane lines the capsule, and is reflected to the margins of the articular cartilages, covering the periosteum within the capsule on the inner side of the humerus. It clothes the glenoid ligament and extends as a cylindrical investment over the tendons of the biceps.^ When this tendon is pulled on, so as to place the scapula as in elevation of the arm, the lower end of this cylinder is drawn down beyond the capsule, and a loose continuation of it is reflected up to the opening by which it is pro- truded, but incloses an additional extent of the tendon when the humerus is depressed. Another complication is found underneath the subscapularis muscle where a bursa communicating with the neck by a wide or narrow opening lies in front of the neck of the scapula. Movements of shoulder-joint. Although the capsule appears to be so loose, its lower fibres are stretched in extreme elevation of the humerus, the hinder fibres when the arm is flung across the chest, and the anterior fibres when the arm is thrown backwards; and in these positions the glenoid ligament fits into the margin of the head of the humerus. To stretch the upper fibres requires further adduction of the humeral shaft than mere contact with the side of the body; but it can be obtained by throwing back the vertebral column and folding the arms across the chest; but even when the upper part of the capsule is stretched, the glenoid ligament is not pressing very closely against the inner part of the humeral neck. When the humerus is raised till the glenoid margin is locked against it, the shaft lies at right angles to the base of the scapula, when the anterior aspect is rotated upward so as to supinate the palm, and falls a little short of that amount of elevation, if the palm be pronated. When the scapula is made to move on the humerus by pulling on the long head of the biceps muscle, the glenoid tubercle is fitted into the upper end of the bicipital groove, and special stability of position is obtained. This is the position when pushing directly outwards. A position of still greater stability is got by pulling on both heads of the biceps muscle so as to throw the bones into the position which they occupy when one pushes in an outward and forward direction; the top of the smaller tuberosity being then fitted exactly into the notch in the front of the glenoid fossa. But ^ The fibres bounding the opening for the subscapularis above and below, and those inserted between the subscapularis and teres minor muscles on the inside of the humerus, have been described as three gleno-humeral ligaments or folds, but have no claim to separate description. -In some mammals the tendon of the biceps is superficial to the joint, e.g. in the horse ; in rodents it is in contact with the synovial membrane but not surrounded, and in the adult sheep it has a short mesotendon (Welcker, Debierre).