THE JOINTS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 197 -synovial membrane, and extends from the anterior margin of the susten- taculum tali, beneath the head of the astragalus, to the scaphoid bone, to be attached close to its posterior articular surface, between it and the tuberosity, and further outwards. It is supported below by the insertion ■of the tibialis posticus tendon. The exfernal calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is continuous with the outer part of the preceding. It has very short fibres, being attached posteriorly to the superior margin of the anterior extremity of the calcaneum, and lies ^igainst the inner side of the capsule of the calcaneo-cuboid joint, with •an upper edge exposable from above. The inferior calcaneo-cuboid or long and sfiort plantar ligaments resist pressure falling on the outer arch of the foot. The long plantar ligament consists of a long and strong band extending back nearly to the tubercles of the calcaneum, and inserted in front into the ridge of the cuboid. The ■short plantar ligament, internal to and continuous with the outer edge of the long plantar, is inserted into the inner and back part of the under •surface of the cuboid, and especially into its conical process. Other p)lantar ligaments exist further forwards. Four bands start from the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, receiving additional fibres from the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, and extend to the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid; that to the internal cuneiform being much the strongest, and that to the external cuneiform the next strongest. From the anterior and outer angle of the internal cuneiform a constant ligament passes to the bases of the second and third metatarsals; and from the under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal another extends inwards to the bases of the third and fourth; while, in front of these, the adjacent edges of the bases of the four outer metatarsals are united by three bands. Interosseous ligaments unite the three cuneiforms and the cuboid, as also the four outer metatarsals, one with another, and the second metatarsal with the internal cuneiform. Dorsal ligaments of capsular character pass, one over the head of the astragalus to the scaphoid, and another so as to cover-in the calcaneo- cuboid articulation. Others, in the form of distinct bands, radiate from the dorsum of the scaphoid to the three cuneiforms and the cuboid. Smaller limited dorsal ligaments, transverse, longitudinal and oblique, unite the cuneiforms and cuboid one with another and with the four outer meta- tarsals, and the bases of the metatarsals one with another. A transverse metatarsal ligament loosely unites the heads of the five metatarsal bones together. The metatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations are similar to the corresponding joints in the upper limb. The first metatarso-phalangeal joint is complicated by two large sesamoid bones in the insertions of the short fiexor of the great toe; these are faced with cartilage and united by transverse fibres which glide on the ridge separating the two grooves on the head of the first metatarsal bone.