BONE. 85 are continued into inter-communicating spaces, primitive areolae, formed by the breaking down of the partitions between neighbouring capsules. By the enlargement of areolae and concentric deposition of lamellae, Haversian systems are formed. Enlargement of bones. Owing, no doubt, to its hardness, osseous tissue once deposited is incapable of expansion. At least this is the general rule in normal circumstances, and contrasts with the power of interstitial expansion manifest in cartilage. All extension of the size of an osseous mass is b}^ additional substance deposited on its surface. This law of osseous growth was demonstrated, so far as the elongation of the shafts of bones was concerned, by John Hunter's experiment of inserting shot separated by a measured distance along a shaft of bone in a young animal. When, after the lapse of a certain time the bone is examined, the shot are found at exactly the original distance one from the other, while the distance from each to the extremities of the bone is increased, showing that new bone has been added at the extremities of the shaft. Duhamel was the first to place a metal ring round the humerus of a young pigeon, and to observe that as the animal grows, such a ring becomes covered superficially, and at last lies loose in the cavity in the interior of the bone; and though Duhamel himself believed in the growth of bone by interstitial additions expanding the tissue already laid down, the smooth- ness of the layers superficial to the ring in such experiments bear out the fact evident from the disposition of the peripheral lamellae, that new bone is added peripherally, while the older bone subjacent is absorbed so as to enlarge the medullary cavity. Besides these main centres of ossification, bones often present supple- mentary centres which appear in masses of cartilage subject to pressure and strain. These are termed epiphyses, and, in the case of the long bones, the centre of ossification of the shaft is called the diaphysis, while there are generally epiphyses at the extremities. The epiphyses are late of uniting to the diaphysis, a very thin plate of cartilage persisting for a length of time between them. The shaft continues to lengthen as long as this thin layer of cartilage persists, new cartilage continuing to be formed nearly as rapidly as the part adjacent to the shaft is converted into bone; but, when by any undue irritation premature union of the shaft and epiphysis takes place (synostosis), the elongation at that end ceases. So also premature synostosis may take place in any of the sutures of the skull, and arrest enlargement along the line of union, the growing edges of the bones being obliterated. But probably the most convincing proof that bone does not increase in size by interstitial expansion is furnished by Humphry's experiments on the lower jaw. By passing wires through holes bored in the ramus of the jaw in the young pig, Humphry encircled the back part of the ramus with one ring, the forepart with another, and found, when the animals were killed after an interval, that the anterior ring was made loose in front by absorption of