568 THE NERVES. THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NERVES. The development of the nerves has not as yet been thoroughly worked out, and there is much discrepancy between the opinions of different observers. It is, however, generally conceded that the essential parts of the nerves are epiblastic in their origin. They appear to grow outwards towards the periphery, partly from the ganglia and partly directly from the brain or spinal cord. The ganglia are formed from a thickened longitudinal strip of the deep layer of the epiblast, which is formed on each side of the mid-dorsal line in the angle of junction between the epiblast of the neural groove and that of the general surface. The thickened strip is usually formed before the closure of the neural groove takes place, and it extends from the region of the fore-brain backwards to or nearly to the hinder extremity of the spinal cord. When the closure of the tube takes place, the thickened strips of the two sides lose their con- nection with the general epiblast, but remain for a time in continuity with the dorsal margin of the neural tube, and by their mesial margins in contact with one another. The name "neural crest" has been given to the continuous ridge thus formed, overlying the dorsal border of the medullary cylinder. The ganglia are formed as thickenings of the crest, each corresponding in position to a mesoblastic somite; and the unaltered portions of the crest continue for a while uniting the successive ganglia. The ganglia are at first connected with the dorsal margin of the neural tube, but the original continuity is soon broken through, and each comes to form an isolated mass of epiblastic cells lying by the side of the neural tube. Eventually, however, a secondary connection is established between the ganglion and the side of the cerebro-spinal cylinder. Some of the hinder ganglia in the chick are said to arise as independent swellings of the epiblast, the continuous neural crest not extending back- wards over the whole length of the cord. Development of the spinal nerves. When the separate ganglia have been established they sink in a ventral direction for a little distance between the mesoblastic somites and the side of the cord. They may be named the primitive ganglia ; not only do they form the spinal ganglia of the posterior roots of the adult, but, according to most observers, a separated portion of each gives rise to a sympathetic ganglion. From the inner and outer extremities of the somewhat spindle-shaped spinal ganglion growth takes place. From the inner extremity of the ganglion the growing process attaches itself to the side of the spinal cord at a spot which corresponds with what will afterwards be the position of the tip of the posterior horn of the grey matter, and thus the secondary connection of the ganglion with the cord is established. The out- growth from the outer extremity of the ganglion forms the afferent portion of the segmental nerve. The anterior roots of the nerves grow directly from the cord, from the side of which they emerge close