522 THE NEEYES. immediately below it, passes downwards to gain the posterior surface of the forearm, teaching as far as the wrist, it supplies the skin of the lower part of the outer region of the arm, and of the back of the forearm. The muscular hmnches supply the triceps, anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior muscles, and a small twig enters the brachiahs anticus. One of the branches for the lower part of the inner head of the triceps (the ulnar collateral nerve of Krause) springs from the upper part of the trunk and descends through the internal intermuscular septum within the sheath of the ulnar nerve; the nerve to the anconeus, also given off high up, is a long slender trunk which descends through the substance of the inner head of the triceps. The nerves to the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior and the twig to the brachialis anticus spring from the lower part of the main trunk. The radial nerve (Figs. 383, 388), the smaller of the terminal branches of the musculo-spiral, descends in the forearm at first under cover of the fleshy belly of the supinator longus and afterwards along the posterior edge of its tendon. It pierces the fascia a little above the wrist and passes on to the back of the hand, where it detaches a number of branches to the integument of the dorsal surface and breaks up into digital branches. The branches to the dorsum of the hand supply the skin of the outer area, and some of them sweeping round the radial border are distributed to the outer part of the thenar eminence. The dorsal digital nerves supply both sides of the thumb, the index and middle fingers, and in most cases the outer side of the ring finger. The series of dorsal digital nerves is completed by the off'sets of the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. Communications between the branches of the two main trunks take place at the bases of the middle and ring fingers, and the number of the digital branches from each source is subject to variation. Although the radial nerve is in most cases entirely cutaneous in its distribution, occasionally a branch is detached to the abductor pollicis muscle. The dorsal digital nerves descend on the fingers behind the arteries. In the case of the thumb, the little finger, and the inner side of the ring finger, they supply the integument as far as the base of the nail; in the other cases they do not as a rule pass beyond the distal extremities of the first phalanges, the supply of the integument being completed by the palmar digital branches. The posterior interosseous nerve (Fig. 387), the larger terminal division of the musculo-spiral, passes backwards round the neck of the radius, in the substance of the supinator brevis, to gain the dorsal surface of the forearm, where it descends at first between the superficial and deep layers of muscles, and afterwards on the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane. At the wrist, much reduced in size, it passes with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis and extensor indicis along the broad groove on the back of the radius; on the back of the carpus it terminates in a gangliform swelling, from which branches pass to the wrist and to the