THE MUSCLES. 272 bones at their bases. The muscular belly narrows about the middle of the forearm, and gives place to a long tendon which, in its passage downwards, occupies a special compartment in the outer part of the anterior annular ligament and passes in front of the scaphoid and along the groove of the trapezium. A synovial sheath surrounds the lower part of the tendon. The palmaris longus springs from the internal epicondyle, the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa on both sides. It narrows in the upper third of the arm to a slender tendon which passes in front of the anterior annular ligament to end in the palmar aponeurosis. The flexor carpi ulnaris springs from the internal epicondyle, the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septum on its outer side; fibres also spring from the inner side of the olecranon process, and continuously therewith in the upper three-fourths of the forearm from the strong layer of fascia attached to the posterior border of the ulna. It is inserted into the pisiform bone from which, however, the tendon is continued onwards in the form of slips which attach themselves to the anterior annular ligament, the unciform process and the bases of the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. The muscular fibres give place to tendon in the lower fourth of the forearm. The ulnar nerve enters the forearm between the heads of the muscle. The flexor digitorum sublimis springs from the internal epicondyle, the fascia of the forearm and the intermuscular septa on both sides ; and Ligamentum breve | Vaginal sheath (cut) First phalanx Fig. 239.—Flexor Tendons on Front of Finger. (L. Testut.) more deeply placed fibres continuous with the humeral head spring from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow and from the side of the coronoid process ; a second head, broad and thin, springs from the radius, extending in its origin downwards along the oblique line and a small part of the anterior border of the bone. It is inserted by four tendons into the anterior surfaces of the second phalanges of the four inner digits. The muscle breaks up about the middle of the forearm, and the tendons pass in pairs behind the anterior annular ligament, those for the