THE NERVES. 540 The nucleus of origin of the fourth nerve is situated in the grey matter of the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, at the level of the posterior quadri- geminal body and immediately behind the oculo-motor nucleus. The fibres from the nucleus curve outwards on the surface of the posterior longitudinal bundle, and turning upwards by the inner side of the nucleus of the fifth nerve, enter the anterior medullary velum, or valve of Vieussens, in which they pass across the middle line, decussating with those of the opposite side. The decussation is apparently complete, and the fourth nerve is peculiar in this respect. THE FIFTH, THE TRIFACIAL, OR TRIGEMINAL NERVE. The fifth (Figs. 401, 402), much the largest of the cranial nerves, springs in two portions, a sensory and a much smaller motor, from the side of the pons, a little behind the anterior curved border. The sensory fibres pass through a great ganglion (the Gasserian ganglion), and break up into three divisions, the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The motor portion joins the inferior maxillary division. The nerve has the peculiarity, that branches from all its three divisions furnish roots of small ganglia which have likewise roots from the sympathetic. The ophthalmic division furnishes a root to the ciliary ganglion; the superior maxillary division is connected with the spheno-palatine ganglion; the inferior maxillary gives branches to the otic ganglion, and to the submaxillary ganglion. Either directly or through its associated ganglia the fifth nerve distri- butes sensory branches to the eyeball, to the skin of the face and the frontal and temporal regions of the head, to the mucous membrane of the nose, the roof of the mouth, the anterior part of the tongue and the floor of the mouth, and to both upper and lower teeth. The muscular branches supply the muscles of mastication. From the otic ganglion branches pass to the tensor tympani and tensor palati. The nuclei of origin. From the place of emergence on the side of the pons the fibres may be traced for a little distance in a dorsal direction and slightly backwards; and many of them are found to terminate in two nuclei which lie side by side, ventral to the lateral part of the floor of the anterior portion of the fourth ventricle. These nuclei, of Avhich the outer is sensory, the inner motor, receive, however, only a portion of the fibres; the remainder form two roots, named respectively retroserial and pro- serial in position. The retroserial root, formed of sensory fibres, descends in the medulla and the upper part of the spinal cord, gradually decreasing in size, as far as the level of the origin of the second or third cervical nerve. The cells among which its fibres terminate may be regarded as continuing the line of the sensory nucleus of the fifth downwards to the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando in the cord. The proserial root, gradually diminishing in size, passes forwards in the isthmus cerebri as far as the level of the anterior quadrigeminal bodies. The cells among which its fibres terminate are situated in the lateral part of the grey