THE OVARIES, UTERUS AND FALLOPIAN TUBES. a number of rugae extend upwards and outwards, giving an appearance known as arhor vitae or pahnae plicatae. The os externum is in the virgin uterus a transverse orifice, about ^^^th inch in extent; and the vaginal part of the cervix, in front and behind it, takes the form of two hps, of which the anterior descends further than the posterior, although the vagina is prolonged further behind the posterior lip than in front of the anterior lip; hence the os externum (called from the inequality of the lips OS tincae) looks to the posterior wall of the vagina. Round ligament of ovary Ovai-y laid open Hydatid Graafian vesicles Fig. 615.—Uterus, Ovaries and Fallopian Tubes from behind. The whole posterior surface of the uterus above the vagina, the upper end or fundus, and the anterior surface of the body are covered with peritoneum, while the fore part of the cervix, down to the vaginal attach- ment, is in contact with the bladder, and, at the sides, the uterine vessels and nerves lie between the folds of peritoneum constituting the broad ligament of the uterus. In the upper edge of the broad ligament the Fallopian tube is placed, and in a projecting anterior fold of the broad ligament a strong band of fibres, the round ligament of the uterus, extends outwards from immediately below and in front of the origin of the Fallopian tube to the internal abdominal ring. Having reached that ring the round ligament loses its peritoneal investment, and traverses the inguinal canal, like the spermatic cord in the male, and emerges to be lost in the connective tissue of the labium majus. Structure. The muscular wall is resolvable into three layers, very closely connected one with another and difficult to follow. The superficial fibres are longitudinal in front and behind, the majority arching over the fundus, but those situated more to the sides curving outwards as they ascend, and extending into the round ligaments of the uterus and on to the walls of the Fallopian tubes. Much the thickest layer is the next, and has the fibres very intricately arranged winding among numerous vessels in the body, but becoming circular in the cervix. The innermost layer