GENERAL ANATOMY. 16 The dilferent varieties of connective tissues composed of corpuscles and white substance, with or without admixture of yellow-elastic fibres, are retiform tissue, areolar tissue, fascia, aponeurosis, ligament, and tendon. Retiform, lymphoid, or adenoid tissue is the variety of connective tissue in which there is the greatest abundance of corpuscular elements. Its matrix presents a very delicate gelatiniferous substance, which often appears in the lymphatic glands to consist of a network of stellate cell-walls whose branches intercommunicate to form the threads bounding the meshes, while the interspaces are more or less crowded with leucocytes of different sizes which proliferate within it. It is a tissue found in greatest abund- ance in the lymphatic glands, and occurs also diffused in thin layers, surrounding secreting tubes or lobules. Fig. 11.—Sitbcutaneous Connective Tissue from embryo duck, showing corpuscles with anastomosing branches, a, A nucleus ; b, a branch. (Bohm and v. Davidoff.) Fig. 12.—Eetiform Tissue : a, from mes- enteric gland of cat; from mesenteric gland of kitten before birth; c, from thymus of salamandra maculata. (Toldt.) Areolar tissue consists of delicate gelatiniferous substance exhibiting delicate fibres and bundles of fibres taking different directions, so as to form a felted arrangement and leave irregular meshes or areae be- tween them, which are the cells or spaces to which allusion was made when formerly it was termed cellular tissue; it is especially to this variety that the expression connective tissue applies. Fascia is a firmer variety of felted white fibrous tissue spread out to form a sheet or membrane devoid of lustre. All fasciae are continuous with looser areolar tissue on one or both sides, and thick sheets are often capable of being artificially divided into an indefinite number of laminae. Fascia has always a certain admixture of coiled yellow-elastic fibres in its substance. Aponeurosis is a term properly applied to sheets of white fibrous tissue with lustre depending on the regularity of the arrangement of the bundles,