163 THE INNOMINATE BONE AND PELVIS. acetabulum, the ischium and os pubis inclose between them the large thyroid or oUumtor foramen, filled up in the fresh state by the obturator membrane, except at its upper part, where the obturator vessels and nerve emerge. Thus, the whole innominate bone consists of two expansions meeting at the acetabulum, lying in planes at a considerable angle one to the other; the upper expansion formed by the ilium, and the lower perforated, and formed by the ischium and os pubis. The position which the innominate bone occupies in the erect posture is similar to what is obtained by allowing it to hang from the middle of the crest of the ilium. The parts named anterior superior spines of Gluteus medius arises- Posterior superior ^ iliac spine / - Gluteus maxim us arises Posterior inferior ) iliac spine / Semimembranosus) arises ( Biceps and semiten- ) dinosus arise i' <iuadratus femoris arises Adductor magnus arises f Anterior superior iliac ) spine Gluteus minimus arises Inferior curved line ( Anterior and posterior '( head of rectus femoris Ilio-pectineal eminence Notch of acetabulum Obturator foramen Pectineus arises Adductor longus Adductor brevis Fig. 162.—Right Pelvic Bone, outer side. the iliac bones and spines of the pubic bones lie nearly in one vertical transverse plane; and the tuberosity of the ischium descends little lower than the symphysis pubis.^ The ilium expands upwards from the acetabulum as a flat blade sur- mounted by a convex border, the crest, which rises highest in the middle of its course, and, looked at from above, is curved like the letter S, forming ^ Formerly many erroneous ideas prevailed on this subject. In the great w^ork of Vesalius, De Fabrica Humani Corjooris, the celebrated figures attributed variously to Titian and to J. Calcar place the pelvis in such a position that the sacrum passes downwards in a direction from base to apex, like the keystone of an arch of mason- work; and this error remained prevalent in the first half of the present century, even although in the Anatomia of Bartholinus, and more distinctly in Cheselden's plates, the representation is correct. I am obliged to my former student, Dr. William Jack, for directing my attention to the remarkable fact that Leonardo da Vinci has figured the position accurately, da Vinci having by his private researches kept himself right, where Vesalius and either Titian or Titian's distinguished pupil went astray.