THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 454 some reach the skin. The coccygeal branch perforates the great sacro-sciatic ligament and ramifies upon the back of the coccyx. The comes nervi ischiadici, a slender vessel, accompanies, for a variable distance, the great sciatic nerve. The terminal offsets of the sciatic artery anastomose with branches of the pudic, gluteal, obturator, internal circumflex, and first perforating arteries. The pudic artery {internal pudic artery) (Figs. 341, 344), the smaller of the terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery, descends by the anterior and inner side of the sciatic artery and escapes with it through the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. Con- tinuing its course it turns over the spine of the ischium to re-enter the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, having, as it lies upon the bone, a vein placed on each side of it, the pudic nerve internally^ and the nerve to the obturator internus externally. From the lower margin of the ischial spine it runs forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa as far as the anterior extremity of the tuberosity, occupying in this part of its course a special canal formed by the obturator fascia, and having the dorsal nerve of the penis above it, and the perineal branches of the pudic nerve below it. In the anterior part of the perineum it pierces the base of the triangular ligament and ascends between its layers, lying close to the bone, in the substance of the compressor urethrae muscle. Immediately below the symphysis it perforates the anterior layer of the ligament and descends along the dorsum of the penis under the name of the dorsal artery of the penis. Branches of the pudic artery. Small muscular off'sets are given to the obturator internus and the neighbouring muscles; they anastomose with branches of the sciatic artery. The inferior haemorrhoidal artery or arteries arise in the posterior part of the perineal space and pass forwards and inwards to the anus supplying the integument, the external sphincter, and the levator ani, and anastomosing with the middle haemorrhoidal artery. The superficial perineal arteries, one or two in number, arising about the middle of the perineum, pass forwards, generally superficially to the super- ficial transverse muscle and, perforating Colles's fascia, are continued to the scrotum where they supply the integument and the subcutaneous tissue and anastomose with the superficial pudic branches from the femoral artery. The transverse perineal artery, a small vessel, is given off in close connection with the superficial perineal; it passes inwards to the central point of the perineum, supplying the muscular and subcutaneous tissue. The artery of the hull) arises immediately after the parent trunk has entered the space between the layers of the triangular ligament. It runs forwards and inwards and, by the side of the urethra, pierces the anterior layer of the ligament to supply the bulb. The artery of the corpus cavernosum, given off a little above the artery of the bulb, perforates the anterior layer of the ligament and immediately enters the crus; it runs forwards to the anterior ex- tremity of the cavernous body. The dorsal artery of the penis pierces the