THE TEETH. 693 THE DIGESTIVE ORaANS. Under this head may be conveniently included the alimentary canal and the glands which open into it. The divisions of the alimentary canal are the mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach and intestine. The teeth^ though situated within the mouth, are structures of such a special kind that it is better to describe their structure and development before pro- ceeding to the description of the soft structures. Of glands limited in number and so considerable in size as not to take part in the formation of the walls of the alimentary canal, one set, the salivary, open into the mouth, while the only others, the pancreas and the liver, open into the duodenum which is the uppermost part of the small intestine. THE TEETH. In the human subject the permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, eight on each side in each jaw, which it is customary to enumerate from before backwards, namely, first and second incisors, one canine or eye-tooth, first and second bicuspids or premolars, and first, second and third molars. The temporary or milk-teeth are twenty in number, five on each side in each jaw, namely, two incisors and a canine, displaced by the corresponding per- manent teeth, and two milk-molars displaced by the bicuspids. The molars of the permanent set are not preceded hy any temporary teeth. Each tooth consists of a crown and a roof^ with a slight constriction where these meet, called the neck. The crown presents in the different teeth differences in the number of cusps or prominences at the summit, while the root presents one or more fangs. The hard structure consists mainly of dentine, but on the crown this is covered with enamel, and on the root with a certain amount of crusta petrosa. In the interior there is left a hollow, the pulp cavity, communicating, at the tip of each fang, with the outside, by a foramen through which pass an artery, a vein and a nerve; and in the adult, the contained pulp consists principally of branches of vessels and nerves, with a small amount of delicate connective tissue supporting them, and is surrounded by a continuous layer of corpuscles called odontoblasts, belonging to the dentine. Fig. 525.—Incisor Tooth, vertical section, a, Pulp cavity; b, dentine ; c, enamel ; d, crusta petrosa. The lines on the enamel indicate the direction of coloured bands ; those on the dentine are the concentric or contour lines of defective mineralization.