MUSCLE. 43 and although similar appearances are frequent in the course of mus- cular bundles, it seems probable that they are the result of accident in manipulation. The transverse striae from which the fibres are named extend, when undisturbed, right across each fibre; they are closely set and at regular intervals. The appearance is due to a doubly refracting and dense stripe alternating with a singly refracting and less dense substance, in the middle of which latter is a faint line, formerly called a membrane by Krause, and sometimes presenting the appearance of a single or double row of dots. The less dense stripes may be rendered brittle by reagents which fail to harden the whole substance, such as weak alcohol, and the fibre then breaks up transversely so as to separate more or less completely the discs or sarcomeres, as they are called, although in point of fact it is only the peri- pheral parts of the dense stripes that are seen separated. But when pressure is applied after the whole substance has been hardened, the fibre exhibits longitudinal striation, and may be broken up artificially into a number of fibrillae, consisting of a linear series of alternating denser and less dense parts cor- responding with the striae of the fibre. The less dense parts are still traversed in the fibrillae, as in the undivided fibre, by a line first noted in the fibrillae by Dobie (1849). So much as lies between two such lines is a sarcous element of Bowman. The fibrilla can be still further broken up into threads of such tenuity that the dense parts of the striae appear as longitudinal lines, while the inter- vening spaces are interrupted by a single or double dot. These ultimate threads or columns may be seen in transverse sections of muscle as minute areae, and are described as separated by a network of sarcojjiasma or sarcoglia interpenetrating and surrounding the striped mass or rhahdia. The sarcolemmci or myoJemma is a delicate structureless membrane re sembling elastic tissue in not being acted on by acetic acid, but passing insensibly at the extremities of the fibres into the substance of the tendon or other white fibrous tissue of attachment. It is absent from the muscles of the heart and the branching fibres of the tongue. The nuclei of striped fibre lie underneath the sarcolemma in more than one row, and are of an oval form, with the long diameter about twice as long as the short, but other much longer nuclei exist in abundance adhering ah c d e Fig. 38.—Steiped Mcscclar FiBRE. o, Fibre from face, bruised at one part so as to divide the contractile substance without injuring the sarcolemma ; h, from pectoralis major, showing striae, with fine line in the light spaces, and also tendency to break into fibrillae ; c, a similar fibre stained, treated with muriatic acid, and washed with carbolic acid, the proper nviclei in the interior, broadly oval nuclei in the sarcolemma, two nucleated threads, and at the upper part a poi-tion of a capillary vessel with its nuclei; d, a fibrilla under a higher power, showing Dobie's lines (dry preparation); e, fibre with marked inclination to break into discs.