THE JOINTS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 199 calcaneum, a gap being left behind : a similar want of conformity is brought about between the sustentacular facet and the head of the astragalus; while the outer part of the facet above the fore-end of the calcaneum glides into contact. Also by the same rotation the calcaneum pulls on the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, and makes the scaphoid revolve on the head of the astragalus, so that the latter projects by its upper and outer part on the dorsum of the foot, while the tension of the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is relieved. The turning down of the outer edge of the foot is continued by the movement of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, which is one of rotation of the cuboid round its conical process ; and in front of the cuboid bone, it is carried still further by the fourth and fifth metatarsal hones. It is easy to understand how in this position arrest of the heel in slipping forwards may lead to dislocation of the astragalus. The movements of the inetatarso-phalangeal joints have been subject to much misapprehension. In undeformed feet the great toes lie in contact in their whole length when the heels and balls of the great toes are placed together on a perfectly flat surface. But the path of movement of the toes in over-extension is not upwards, but upwards and outwards (Cleland, 1888) round a cone formed by the series of heads of metatarsals. In consequence of this the great toes separate when raised; and it is in conformity with this that in worn moccasins and in well made shoes the inner edge of the sole turns outwards at the great toe. In standing, and still more on raising the heel, as in standing on tip-toe, or running, the weight of the body tends to flatten both the longitudinal and transverse arches, and makes the foot for the moment both longer and broader; the ligaments by which these arches are supported are made tense, and the relief of this tension on raising the foot from the ground gives spring to the step. In running, the weight falls first on the ball of the great toe, and is then quickly distributed to the others. In walking bare-foot, especially if the body be inclined forwards, the same order of events occurs and is followed by the heel reaching the ground and receiving part of the weight, while conversely the heel is raised from the ground first, and the great toe last; but in walking with boots on, the heel is put at once to the ground. THE BONES OF THE LIMBS COMPARED. Though many conflicting theories have been advanced as to the relationship of the upper and lower limbs, which cannot be even alluded to in a text-book, and though the subject cannot be fully discussed without copious reference to comparative anatomy as well as embryology, there are certain points which may be shortly mentioned for the guidance of inquiry.