THE SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 566 right and left coronary plexuses accompany the right and left coronary arteries respectively; the branches, which are numerous, pierce the muscular substance of the heart, and present many microscopic ganglia. The right plexus is formed by branches from the deep and superficial cardiac plexuses; the left is continued from the deep plexus. The Solar Plexus (Epigastric Plexus). The solar plexus (Fig. 414), the largest of the sympathetic plexuses, rests upon the abdominal aorta at the place of origin of the coeliac axis, and stretches outwards towards the suprarenal bodies. It contains on each side a large ganglionic mass, the semilunar ganglion. The solar plexus is continued downwards on each side into the aortic plexus, and from the main plexus and its continuations there radiate a number of secondary plexuses which accompany the phrenic and visceral branches of the abdominal aorta. The semilunar ganglion (see figure in description of suprarenal capsule) lies upon the crus and consists of a flattened collection of smaller ganglia closely united with one another. It measures between an inch and an inch and a half in transverse and vertical diameter, but its size varies, and some of its component smaller ganglia are frequently distinct from the main mass. It receives the great splanchnic nerve of its own side. The phrenic or diaphragmatic plexuses ascend with the inferior phrenic arteries, and ramify on the diaphragm, forming connections with the branches of the phrenic nerves. On the right side there is usually a small ganglion in the phrenic plexus. The suprarenal plexuses consist of a number of branches which pass into the suprarenal capsules. The renal plexuses accompany the renal arteries to the kidneys. They are formed of numerous large nerves, and receive the smallest splanchnic nerves. The coeliac 'plexus is continuous with the anterior surface of the solar plexus ; it surrounds the coeliac axis, and receives communicating branches from the right pneumogastric nerve. It breaks up into smaller plexuses, which accompany the branches of the coeliac axis. Of these the hepatic plexus is the largest; it is joined by a branch of the left pneumo- gastric nerve and detaches pyloric, pancreatico-duodenal, and cystic plexuses, and bifurcates terminally with the right and left divisions of the hepatic artery. The coronary plexus descends with the artery upon the small curvature, and forms connections with the pneumogastric nerves and with the pyloric plexus. The splenic plexus passes to the spleen and detaches pancreatic and gastro-epiploic offsets with the branches of the splenic artery. The superior mesenteric plexus is continued from the lower part of the solar plexus: the nerves which form it are remarkable for their white colour;