THE NERVES. 544 muscle, into its terminal branches. Within the cranium it detaches some small recurrent meningeal branches. Crossing the spheno-maxillary fossa it gives off from its upper margin an orbital branch, and, from below, the two spheno-palatine branches to Meckel's ganglion. As it passes forwards upon the superior maxillary bone it detaches the posterior, middle and anterior superior dental nerves. The terminal part, sometimes named the infra- orbital nerve, breaks up into inferior palpebral, lateral nasal, and superior labial branches, which form with the branches of the facial nerve free communications to which the name infraorbital plexus has been given. The orbital or temporo-malar branch (Fig. 403) enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure and divides into two slender nerves, the temporal and malar branches. The temporal branch ascends on the outer wall, is con- nected by one or two slender filaments with the lachrymal nerve, and pierces the bone at the level of the outer canthus; it is then directed outwards and backwards over the anterior part of the temporal muscle, and pierces the temporal fascia about an inch above the zygoma and a little behind the malar bone; it is connected with the facial nerve, and supplies the skin of the anterior part of the temporal region. The malar branch is directed forwards to the malar foramen, through which it passes, to appear upon the surface at the most prominent part of the cheek; it is connected with the facial nerve and ramifies in the skin covering the malar bone. The spheno-palatine nerves are two short stems which descend to the anterior part of the spheno-palatine ganglion; some of their fibres terminate in the ganglion, of which they form the sensory roots; many, however, are prolonged beyond the ganglion into its palatine and nasal branches. The superior dental nerves supply the teeth of the upper jaw, and detach filaments to the mucous membrane of the outer side of the gum and the adjacent area, and the lining membrane of the antrum of Highmore. They communicate with one another in a plexus within the substance of the alveolar ridge. The posterior nerve arises either as one branch which rapidly subdivides or as two separate branches from the main trunk as it is entering the infraorbital groove; the branches descend upon the posterior surface of the superior maxillary bone and enter bony canals, within which they break up into twigs which supply the molar teeth. The miclclle nerve, often absent altogether, arises in the infraorbital groove, is directed forwards and inwards, and descends in a special canal in the outer wall of the antrum; it supplies the bicuspid teeth. The anterior nerve arises in the infraorbital canal and descends in the anterior wall of the antrum ; it detaches a filament to the mucous membrane of the anterior part of the inferior turbinate bone and the lower meatus of the nose, and breaks up into branches which supply the incisor, canine, and, in the absence of the middle nerve, the bicuspid teeth. The infraorbital or terminal branches. The inferior palpebral branches^ usually two in number, are the smallest of the terminal offsets; they are