THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 113 arch is a surface covered with cartilage for articulation with the odontoid process, and in front of it is a slight prominence, the anterior tubercle, so called in opposition to the ^posterior tubercle, which represents the spinous process. The lateral inasses are two solid blocks which present on their upper surfaces a pair of superior articular surfaces for articulation with the condyles of the occipital bone. These surfaces are elongated and concave, with their posterior extremities opposite the widest part of the ring and their anterior extremities nearer one to the other, their outer margins elevated and their inner margins depressed and indented; while internal to each is a roughness marking the attachment of the transverse ligament. Beneath the lateral masses are two inferior articular surfaces, flat, circular, and looking downwards and a little inwards. Outside the lateral masses are the transverse processes, perforated by an arterio-ver- tebral foramen, like the other cervical vertebrae, but having only one extremity, which strikes out so far that the width between it and its fellow is not equalled by any succeeding vertebra till the first thoracic is reached. The bars uniting to form the posterior arch are cylindrical a h c d Fig. 124.—Four Vertebrak of a Child at Birth, a, Cervical; b, thoracic; c, a bias ; d, axis. The dotted lines show the parts of the atlas and axis which correspond with the non-central part of the body in a dorsal and a typical cervical vertebra. except immediately behind the lateral masses, where they are flattened superiorly, there being on each side a broad transverse groove over- hung in front by the back of the superior articular surface. This is occupied by the vertebral artery as it winds round from the arterio- vertebral foramen before entering the skull by the foramen magnum; and the occipital or first spinal nerve emerges by it. It is really the superior notch, while the part which goes to form the lateral mass corresponds with the non-central portion of the body in other verte- brae. The groove is sometimes arched over and converted into a foramen. The ridge behind it corresponds in position with the superior articular process of a typical vertebra, and sometimes in old subjects the occipital bone rubs so much on the posterior arch as to form a sort of articular surface. The laminae of the atlas not unfrequently fail to meet in the middle line behind.^ ^ The atlas is occasionally subject to larger defects, both in the anterior and posterior arches. Especially worthy of notice is the occurrence of incomplete pos- terior arch in conjunction with enlarged ring and throwing forward of the transverse processes. It may be also here noted that by following the series of anterior and posterior intertransverse muscles till, by means of the rectus capitis anticus minor and rectus capitis lateralis, they respectively reach the skull, it can be shown that H