THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. 623 arranged on the surface, and is termed the cortical substance; and the surface is thrown into convolutions ([/[/ri) and fissures (sulci), by which its superficies is enormously increased. The increase of surface brings the cortical substance in all its depth nearer to the supply of blood from the pia mater than would be otherwise possible, and is probably necessary for other reasons, inasmuch as there is a definite arrangement of nervous elements at different depths, just as there is in the cortical substance of the cerebellum. In no brain are the fissures and convolutions perfectly symmetrica], and in no two brains is the arrangement perfectly similar. The fissures appear in a regular order, and those which appear first are constant and symmetrical, while complication takes place by the formation of secondary and shallower fissures, and by frilling of the convolutions between. Interest attaches to the details of the arrangement, first, on account of the complexity being greater in civilized races than in savages, and greater in persons of much intelligence than in persons of little; secondly, on account of the same convolutions being found in simpler form in apes and monkeys; and, thirdly, on account of definite local paralyses or alterations of function being associated with lesions of certain definite parts of the convoluted surface, whether produced in monkeys by experi- ment or in men by disease. Fig. 452.—From a Preparation in Spirit, showing the relations of the superficial convolutions to the middle meningeal artery and their positions in the head. Convolutions and fissures. The fissure of Sylvius. This is no mere sulcus, but owes its existence partly to the form of the cranial cavity, partly to the fundamental division of the hemisphere into a solid part and a mantle. It begins on the base, at the anterior perforated spot, by a broad and deep part (vallecula or fossa of Sylvius), and is so situated that the free border of the orbital wing of the sphenoid fits into it. Outside the