188 THE SKELETON. ligament, and proceed outwards to the tubercle of the outer end of the intertrochanteric line. The y-sha;ped ligament of Bigelow is a term in use -among surgeons to indicate by one name the two bands just mentioned; but the important surgical fact is that in dislocation backwards the head of the femur ruptures the capsule behind the outer fibres, and that in dislocation forwards it ruptures it internal to the ilio-femoral ligament, while in both, the fibres radiating from above the acetabulum remain untorn and must be taken into consideration if a dislocation is to be reduced without violence. The part of the capsule internal to the ilio- femoral ligament is thin and occasionally even perforated; but a thicker puho-femoral band proceeds from the pubic margin of the acetabulum, above the notch, and is inserted into the femur behind the ilio-femoral ligament. The symmal memhrane extends from the capsule over the free surfaces ■of the cotyloid ligament. It covers a pad of fat which occupies the non- articular portion of the acetabulum. From the Haversian gland so formed, and from the margin of the transverse ligament, it is continued cylindrically on the ligamentum teres. In front it clothes the whole neck of the femur, but at the back part it is reflected from the capsule to the periosteum, about the middle of the neck. Anteri- orly it occasionally communicates in- ternal to the ilio-femoral ligament with the bursa beneath the ilio-psoas muscle. Movements of hip-joint. Being a ball-and-socket joint, the hip-joint <allows movement of the limb in every direction. The limits of the diff"erent movements are determined partly by the forms of the bones and partly by the ligaments. Thus flexion is limited by locking of the upper edge of the acetabulum on the front of the femur; and in less extreme flexion, adduction and abduction are respectively limited by locking of the anterior and posterior walls of the acetabulum; while over- •extension is limited by tension of the whole of the strong anterior part of the capsule. But other limits are put to movement by the thickness •of the soft parts and stretching of muscles. Thus the stretched adductor muscles limit abduction of the extended thigh, while, in stout persons, -stooping is rendered difficult by the obstructing soft parts. In the erect posture the fibres of the capsule are stretched by reason •of their obliquity, both those in front, against which the femur is pushed, and also the ischial fibres behind on which it pulls, and which ■are then twisted in exactly the same direction as the tendon of the obturator externus muscle laid against them and aiding them. In flexion a Fig, 182.—Left Hip-Joint from behind in full flexion, o, Ramus of ischium sawn across ; b, superior ramus of pubis, sawn across ; c, notch of acetabulum ; d, fibres to the lower end of the anterior trochanteric line ; e, fibres inserted into the digital fossa; between (/ and e, circular fibres; ./, fold of synovial membrane.