168 THE SKELETON. sacral promontory. In the male these diameters are smaller, and the ischial tuberosities less everted, and on both accounts the pelvis is deeper and the pubic arch narrower; also the obturator foramen has less approach to a triangular form. An additional sexual distinction in the pubic arch is occasioned by there being constantly in the adult female greater breadth between the lines of origin of the graciles muscles; but the growth of this breadth is the last part of the ossification of the innominate bone to be completed. At different ages the pelvis has different shapes. In early childhood the iliac blades diverge at a wide angle one from the other and the pelvic outlet is of small proportions; but from about the time of appearance of the permanent incisor teeth the angle of iliac divarication as measured by the anterior borders of the blades diminishes from as much as 85 degrees till, when early adult life is reached, it may vary from 20 to 40 degrees, while, in later life it again increases notably, especially in heavy pelvises, doubtless in consequence of muscular traction. The conjugate and transverse diameters of the pelvic brim are about equal in young children; afterwards the conjugate grows more rapidly than the transverse till near puberty, and finally the- adult proportions are approached by more rapid increase in width, apparently due to the transmission of the weight of the body through the dorsal sacro-iliac ligaments whose surfaces of attachment become much enlarged. In lower races of humanity these later changes are more or less completely absent, the pelvis remaining of a form termed by Turner dolichopellic, but expressed in connection with its mode of development as unhroadened.'^ The Fe:\iur. The superior extremity of the femur or thigh bone presents a rounded head and an elongated neck, separated from the shaft by an outer and an inner eminence, the great and the small trochanter, with an anterior rough line and a posterior ridge uniting them. The head has a spherically curved surface forming more than half a sphere, and encroaching on the neck consider- ably further above than below. Below and behind the position of a line prolonged up the centre of the neck, its surface is interrupted by a depression, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip-joint. The neck is directed upwards and inwards from the shaft at an angle varying from 110 to 140 degrees, more obtuse in the male than the female, and in the young than the old. If the posterior extremities of the con- dyles at the lower end of the bone be placed in a transverse plane the neck is inclined distinctly forw^ards. It is thicker from above downwards than from before backwards, and has three sides separated by a superior, an inferior, and a less prominent posterior border. The great trochanter pro- jects upwards in a line with the outer part of the shaft. Looked at ^ Cleland, Memoirs and Memoranda in A natomy, Vol. i., p. 95.