THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 476 runs backwards and downwards on the surface of the tentorium along the line of attachment of the falx. It commences in front at the junction of the inferior longitudinal sinus with the vena magna Galeni from the velum interpositum, and terminates behind, usually in the left lateral sinus, occasionally in that of the right side. It receives lateral branches from the upper surface of the cerebellum and from the tentorium. The lateral sinuses (Figs. 352, 357) commence at the internal occipital pro- tuberance, where they are connected transversely across the middle line, a confluence, the forcuhir Herojihili, being formed between them and the termina- tions of the superior longitudinal and straight sinuses. Each passes outwards on the occipital bone as far as the inferior angle of the parietal, crossing which it is slightly arched upwards; it then bends sharply, and is directed downwards and inwards on the inner surface of the mastoid ; it finally turns forward on the jugular process of the occipital bone to the jugular foramen, in the posterior part of which it becomes continuous with the internal jugular vein. It receives, just as it is bending downwards, the superior petrosal sinus; a little lower, the mastoid perforating vein w^hich connects it with the occipital vein enters it; near its termination it is usually connected with the occipital sinus, and occasionally through the posterior condylar foramen with the suboccipital plexus. Lateral branches pass to it from the temporal lobe of the brain, the cerebellum, the medulla and pons, and from the posterior veins of the diploe. The transverse portion of each sinus runs alons; the attachment of the tentorium. The sinus of the rio-ht side, continued, usually, from the superior longitudinal sinus, is commonly larger than that of the left, which in most cases carries the blood of the straight sinus. The position of the sinus may be marked externally by a line drawn horizontally from the external occipital protuberance to the base of the mastoid process, and then bent downwards towards the tip of the process. In some cases a small sinus, the petro-siimmous sinus, passes forwards from the lateral sinus along the line between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. It represents the terminal portion of the lateral sinus of the very early embryo, in which the blood from the cranial cavity passed through a foramen in front of the ear to the primitive jugular (external jugular) vein. The occipital sinus (Fig. 357), a small channel, ascends to the torcular Herophili along the line of attachment of the falx cerebelli. It commences at the sides of the foramen magnum and is usually connected with one or both lateral sinuses. It communicates with the posterior intraspinal veins, and frequently, through the anterior condylar foramen, with the vertebral and anterior spinal veins. The cavernous sinuses (Fig. 357) lie on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone, extending backwards from the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous bone. Their cavities are broken up into a number of intercommunicating spaces by delicate interlacing bands. They communi- cate, across the middle line, with one another by branches in front of,