THE NERVES. 526 and in close proximity to which it emerges from the psoas, crosses the quadratus lumboriim, and courses through the abdominal wall. It becomes subcutaneous by passing through the superficial abdominal ring. Muscular branches are detached to the three broad muscles. The terminal twigs are distributed to the scrotum or labium, and to the upper and inner part of the thigh. Occasionally the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves are united for a considerable distance into one trunk. The genito-crural nerve emerges on the anterior surface of the psoas, either as a single trunk or already divided. It descends in front of the muscle, and splits at a variable spot into its terminal divisions. The genital division accompanies the spermatic vessels along the inguinal canal, and supplies the cremaster muscle. The crural division descends in front of the external iliac vessels, enters the thigh, and finally, by the outer margin of the femoral artery, about two inches below Poupart's ligament, pierces the fascia lata; its terminal twigs supply the integument of the upper and anterior part of the thigh, and form connections with those of the middle and internal cutaneous branches of the anterior crural nerve. The external cutaneous nerve emerges at the outer border of the psoas, a little below the level of the ilio-inguinal nerve. It crosses in front of the iliacus and, in close proximity to the anterior superior spine, passes behind Poupart's ligament; in the thigh it immediately breaks up into anterior and posterior branches. The posterior branch, the smaller, passes backwards, pierces the fascia near the outer margin of the gluteus maximus, and distributes its offsets to the integument of the posterior and outer part of the upper two-thirds of the thigh. The anterior branch, passing downwards, pierces the deep fascia three or four inches below Poupart's ligament, and ramifies over the outer part of the thigh, supplying the skin as far at the level of the knee, some of the terminal twigs reaching the patellar plexus. The obturator nerve emerges from the inner border of the psoas, and courses forwards along the wall of the true pelvis to the obturator canal, lying immediately above the obturator vessels. Near the place of exit from the pelvis it divides into anterior and posterior branches. The ■anterior branch passes through or over the obturator externus, and descends in the thigh on the anterior surface of the adductor brevis, and behind the pectineus and adductor longus. At the lower border of the adductor longus it forms communications with the long saphenous and internal cutaneous nerves; it usually terminates as a cutaneous twig, piercing the fascia at the anterior border of the gracilis, about half-way down the thigh. It supplies muscular branches to the adductor longus and gracilis, and occasionally to the adductor brevis and pectineus. The jjosterior branch pierces the obturator externus and descends in the thigh behind the adductor brevis. It supplies muscular offsets to the obturator externus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus, and furnishes