THE SKELETON. 126 and others between transverse processes and the tubercles of ribs, has led to the distinction of costo-vertebml and costo-transverse articulations. The anterior costo-veiiebral ligament or stellate or radiate ligament of the head of the rib extends from the front of the head of each typically articulated rib three bands—an upper, sloping up to the vertebra above, and lying in front of the upper joint; a lower, sloping downwards in like manner in front of the lower joint, and a shorter and narrower band extending directly inwards to the intervertebral disc. The interarticular ligament is a strong, although thin, band stretching from the interarticular ridge of the head of the rib into the intervertebral disc, and separating the upper articulation of the head of a typical rib from the lower. ^ The jiosterior costo-transverse ligament is a definite and strong flat band extending from the ridge of the tubercle of the rib downwards and in- wards to the transverse process of its vertebra, behind the costo-transverse articular cavity. The middle costo-transverse ligament, ligamentum colli costae, or interosseous ligament consists of horizontal fibres uniting the back of the neck of the rib to the front of the corresponding transverse process, and filling up the interval between the costo-vertebral and costo-transverse articular cavities. Tlie long (or superior) costo-transverse ligaments consist of two sets of bands irregularly developed in diff'erent intercostal spaces, and uniting the neck of the rib with the vertebra above. The anterior and outer bands extend between the ridge on the neck of the rib and the tip of the transverse process above ; the posterior and inner bands are attached inferiorly behind the groove of the neck of the rib and superiorly near the root of the transverse process. The anterior thoracic joints are comparatively simple. The junctions of ribs with costal cartilages, of pieces of the sternum one with another, and of the sternum with the first costal cartilage are not properly to be looked on as joints, any more than the union of shaft and epiphyses in a young bone. But true sterno-chondral articulations occur in connection with the ■cartilages of the sternal ribs succeeding the first. Most commonly two synovial cavities separated by an interarticular septum are found in connection with the second costal cartilage; and descending from this, two cavities ^ The interai^ticular ligament derives additional interest from the circumstance that in many mammals it is replaced by a ligamentum conjiLgale costarum, which crosses over between the intervertebral disc and the posterior common ligament, and joins the head of the rib to its fellovs'. In ruminants the conjugal ligament is attached by other fibres to the body of the proserial vertebra, but it is not so in carnivora ; and in both there is a single synovial cavity continued from side to side, repre- senting the two pairs of cavities connected with the heads of a pair of ribs in man. The transverse ligament of the atlas and the lateral odontoid ligaments belong to the same series of transverse fibres, and, in so far, may be regarded as conjugal ligaments (Cleland, 1859 and 1861).