401 THE HEART. which separates the right and left divisions of the heart from one another, is so placed that the right division occupies the greater part of the anterior surface, the left division the greater part of the posterior surface of the organ. The anterior and posterior interventricular furrows meet one another a little to the right of the apex, which is formed from the left ventricle only. Of the borders of the heart, the right, or margo acnfus, is narrower and longer than the left, or margo obtusiis. The auricular portion of the heart has the form of an irregularly- shaped crescent, embracing from l)ehind and from the right side the base of the aorta, and having its horns or extremities prolonged, as the auri- cular appendices, towards the sides of the pulmonary artery. The auricular portion rests behind on the column, the pericardium and the structures in the posterior mediastinum intervening. The septum is directed from behind forwards and to the left, so that the right auricle, which lies Fig. 308.—The Heart, from behind. The coronary sinus is seen in the auriculo- ventricular furrow ; the left coronary vein with a posterior cardiac tributary and the posterior interventricular vein are also shown. (C. Gegenbaur.) to the right side of and in front of the aorta, is narrow behind, and broad and expanded in front, while the left is somewhat flattened out behind the aorta and pulmonary artery. The right auricle, viewed from the front and the outer side, presents a broad, prominent, somewhat four-sided surface, prolonged anteriorly into the appendix, which projects towards the left. The superior and inferior venae cavae enter respectively at the upper and lower posterior angles. When the auricle is opened, the inner and posterior parts of its wall are found to be smooth, but the anterior part and the wall of the appendix are made rough by the presence of vertical muscular bands, standing out as strong ridges, the riiusciili pectinati, under the endocardial lining. The posterior limit of the roughened area is marked on the external surface by a groove which runs from in front of the entrance of the vena cava superior to the right of the opening of the inferior cava, and Avhich has received 2c