572 THE NERVES. While it is evident that the details of the development of the nervous system are not sufficiently well known to enable us to formulate a definite morphological classification of the nerves, yet an analysis of the various fibres which go to make up a typical segmental nerve of the trunk, and the collection of these fibres into groups dependent on the tissues to which they are distributed, may prove of use to the student in assisting him to remember the anatomical details. Each typical nerve springing from the cord is formed by the union of a posterior or dorsal and an anterior or ventral root, the former containing afferent and the latter eff'erent fibres. Connected with each nerve trunk there is found in the early embryo a ganglion which, in the course of development, becomes subdivided into a dorsal or afferent and a ventral or efferent portion. The dorsal portion becomes the spinal ganglion, the ventral portion the sympathetic ganglion. The spinal ganglion is connected to the cord by the posterior root. The sympathetic ganglion is connected to the €ord by efferent fibres which run in the anterior root. Besides the efferent fibres which pass to the sympathetic ganglion, another set of efferent fibres is found in the anterior root. These fibres spring from the ventral extremity of the anterior horn of the cord, and pass to the voluntary muscles. The fibres which make up the roots of a segmental nerve may therefore be •divided into three groups: (1) an afferent group forming the posterior root, iind connected with the spinal ganglion; (2) an efferent group, forming part of the anterior root, and connected with the sympathetic ganglion ; (3) an efferent group, non-gangliated, forming part of the anterior root, passing to the voluntary muscles. Following, but somewhat modifying the terminology of Gaskell, these groups may be named respectively: (!) the dorsal gangliated afferent, (2) the ventral gangliated efferent, (3) the ventral non-gangliated efferent. Tracing now to their distribution the various fibres which a complete segmental nerve might be conceived to contain, they may be arranged with reference to the special groups, as follows : 1. Fibres of the dorsal gangliated group (afferent). (ft) To epiblastic and hypoblastic surfaces (nerves of general and special sense). {h) To general mesoblast (afferent fibres from heart, genito-urinary organs, etc.). (c) To organs derived from the muscle plates, the voluntary muscles (the nerves of muscular sensibility). 2. The fibres of the ventral gangliated group (efferent). (ft) To epiblastic and hypoblastic surfaces (glandular nerves). (&) To general mesoblast (vaso-motor, viscero-motor nerves, etc.). •3. The fibres of the ventral non-gangliated group (efferent) (c) To organs derived from the muscle plates (the motor nerves of