558 THE NERVES. ramify with the bronchi in the lungs. The plexuses of opposite sides communicate with one another. The oesophageal branches communicate with one another and with those of the nerve of the opposite side forming the oesophageal plexus from which branches pass to the muscular wall and mucous membrane of the thoracic portion of the oesophagus. The terminal or gastric branches ramify upon the stomach, and form communications with the sympathetic. The nerve of the left side is chiefly distributed to the front of the stomach. In the neighbourhood of the small curvature it forms communications with the nerves of the posterior surface, and furnishes branches to the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic. The nerve of the right side is chiefly distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, and gives communicating branches to the coeliac plexus of the sympathetic. Development. The recurrent course of the inferior laryngeal branch can be accounted for on developmental grounds. At an early stage in the embryo the nerve passed inwards to the larynx below the lowest of the primary vascular arches; by the descent of the heart and the great vessels from the neck into the thorax the nerve was drawn downwards. The distribution of the nerves of the right and left sides respectively to the posterior and -anterior surface of the stomach was brought about in the course of development by a change in position of the stomach, which originally projected forwards in the middle line, but afterwards became turned over on to its right side. THE ELEVENTH OR SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. The spinal accessory nerve (Fig. 412) is formed of two distinct portions, respectively bulbar and spinal in origin. The bulbar portion, the smaller of the two, springs by five or six roots, which are in continued series with those of the vagus. The spinal portion arises by a number of fasciculi, which spring from the side of the upper part of the spinal cord between the anterior and posterior nerve roots, in the region above the level of origin of the sixth cervical nerve; the lower of the fasciculi emerge from the cord immediately behind the line of attachment of the ligamentum denticulatum; the higher ones, more posteriorly placed, are close to the posterior roots. Gradually increasing in size the nerve ascends behind the ligamentum denticulatum, and enters the cranium through the foramen magnum. It is then joined by the bulbar portion, and the common trunk passes outwards behind the vagus to the jugular foramen. Immediately beneath the jugular foramen the component parts of the nerve separate from one another. NiLclei of origin. The fibres of the bulbar portion are in the medulla oblongata connected with the posterior extremity of the nucleus ambiguus, from which the eff'erent fibres of the vagus spring; those of the spinal portion take origin from a group of cells, which in the lower cervical