THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 494 The cardinal veins receive at first the blood from the Wolffian bodies and the lower part of the trunk. In their distal portions they remain as the internal iliac veins, and receive as branches the external iliac veins from the limbs. In the abdominal portion of their course the cardinals at first receive the lumbar, spermatic, and renal veins, and, in the thoracic portion of their course, the intercostal veins. The inferior vena cava, developing from the heart, divides into two branches which unite with the right and left cardinal veins at the places of entry of the renal veins, and the new vessel to a large extent takes the place of the original trunks. The right branch of the two into which the inferior vena cava divides, with the portion of the right cardinal vein immediately below the place of junction, becomes the lower part of the main trunk of the permanent vena cava, namely, that portion which receives the right renal, right spermatic, and the lumbar veins; the portion of the right cardinal vein beyond the lower extremity of the inferior vena cava, between it and the lowest portion of all, which becomes the internal iliac vein, is represented in the adult by the right common iliac vein. Above the right renal vein a small portion of the right cardinal either dis- appears altogether, or remains as a slender connection between the renal vein or the vena cava, on the one hand, and the great azygos vein on the other. The thoracic portion of the right cardinal vein becomes the great azygos vein. On the left side, a transverse branch passes from the upper ex- tremity of the left internal iliac vein to the right cardinal, and becomes the left common iliac vein. Above this, the abdominal portion of the left cardinal disappears, save probably for a small part at the origin of the left spermatic vein. The left branch of the vena cava becomes the basal portion of the left renal vein. Above this the left cardinal is again interrupted. The lower part of the thoracic portion of the left cardinal vein becomes the left ayzgos vein and, by the development of a transverse branch, passes its blood into the right cardinal vein. Above the position of the transverse branch a portion of the left cardinal vein is usually atrophied. The highest portion remains as the greater part of the left superior intercostal vein. The Circulation in the Embryo and Foetus. The vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric circulation. The earliest vessels which are developed in connection with the embryo are those of the vascular area; they are formed in the mesoblast of the splanchnic wall of the yelk sac. From the vascular area the blood is carried to the venous end of the heart by two mtelline veins, and, after passing through the heart and the primitive arterial arches, reaches the dorsal aorta. From the abdominal portion of the dorsal aorta two vitelline arteries, at first Tery large in comparison with the other branches, carry the blood to the