THE IXXOMIXATE BOXE ASD PELA'IS. 167 depression, behind, above and in front of it : its posterior part formed by the ischium, its middle part, which is also the largest and looks down- wards, formed by the ilium, and its anterior part, the smallest of the three, formed by the os pubis. The acetabulum looks forwards, outwards and downwards; and, therefore, in the erect posture, embraces the head of the femur behind, above and internally, while it leaves it exposed in front. The pelvis has its inlet or hrim extending from the promontory of the sacrum, round by the ilio-pectineal lines, to the upper border of the symphysis pubis, while its outlet exhibits three prominences, namely, tbe coccyx and the ischial tuberosities, the latter being imited, in the recent state, to the coccyx by the great sacro-sciatic ligaments. Between the ischial tuberosities and the symphysis pubis is the jnilic or sul-jcnibic arch, the margins of which give attachment to the corpora cavernosa, the triangular ligament and muscles of the perinaeum. The pelvic cavity beinu* bounded behind bv the sacrum and coccvx. and in front bv the symphysis pubis, the axis of the joelvis, a line drawn so as to be every- where equidistant between those boundaries, is considerably curved. A=. however, the sacrum and coccyx do not lie in a circular curve, and as the sacrum is to a certain extent movable round the retreating angle of its auricular surface, and the coccyx movable on the sacrum, the best expression of the total curvature of the pelvis is to be found in the facts that the tuberosities of the ischia descend, in the erect postiu-e, little below the symphysis pubis, and that the brim of the pelvis lies at an angle approaching 60 degrees to the horizontal plane. The male and female jjelvis present a number of differences not any of them to be found in every instance, but all of them present in well- FiG. lo4.—Pelvis of Male. Fi:-. l'; : .—Pelvis of Female. formed specimens. The diameters of the true pehis are particularly important in the female. In the full-grown normal European female the average transverse, oblicpie and antero-posterior (or conjugate) diameters may be estimated respectively as 5J, 5 and 4J inches at the brim, and each as about 4J inches at the outlet, the transverse diameter slightly narrowing from brim to outlet, while the conjugate increases below the