116 THE SKELETON. lateral aspect, towards the base, is the auricular surface, a large articu- lar surface covered with cartilage for articulating with the iliac portion of the pelvic bone, but differing from the generality of articular surfaces in being more uneven. It extends over the first two verte- brae and a certain way over the third. Its ventral margin keeps. close to the ventral surface of the bone, while the ear-shape from which it is named is due to the part on the first vertebra extending dorsally considerably further than the rest. The space between the auricular surface and the tips of iN?lNT!"^;~c^Xumm'^nm^^^ trausvorso processes is occupied with fat, while the range of processes gives attachment to the of^Merai mass, the costal ele- strong posterior sacro-iUac ligament. The fifth sacral vertebra has the free processes which form its imperfect arch turned downwards like inferior articular processes. They are called the sacral cornua, and articulate with the first coccygeal vertebra, with which also the inferior surface of its dwindled body, situated at the apex of the sacrum, articulates. The sacrum sometimes consists of six vertebrae, and occasionally is surmounted by a vertebra with a thick lateral mass of sacral character on one side and a lumbar transverse process on the other. In the erect posture, the sacrum is so placed that the ventral border of the auricular surface is horizontal. Toward the base, the dorsal surface of the sacrum is therefore superior in position, and the ventral surface inferior; and the ventral being the broadest part, the sacrum articulates with the pelvic bones, not like the keystone of an arch, but with the broad end of its dorso-ventral wedge downmost. The coccyx is the name given to the dwindled vertebrae beyond the sacrum, which are described as one bone on account of their being usually united into one piece before being joined to the sacrum. The first coccygeal vertebra has a broad flat body with two transverse processes projecting from its sides, and a pair of cornua striking up from behind it to com- plete, with the sacral cornua, a pair of foramina for the fifth pair of sacral nerves. The remaining coccygeal vertebrae vary from two to four, but are usually three. The second has an upper and a lower flat surface, and mere indications of transverse processes. The other two are reduced to nodules. The three last are usually united into one bone before being united with the first. The period of union of coccyx and sacrum is vari- able, but is earlier in the male than in the female, in whom such union may cause difficulty in parturition. The articulated column presents various curves for consideration. If the line of the front of the bodies of the vertebrae be followed, there is seen in the neck a marked convexity, which is succeeded by a concavity reaching its deepest about the sixth thoracic vertebra. Thence the line slopes forwards to the lumbar convexity which, projects much further