EMBEYOLOGY. So Impregnation, as observed in starfishes and threadworms, is effected by a single spermatozoon which outruns the others. The surface of the yelk rises to meet the spermatozoon; the spermatozoon pierces into the interior, and loses its lash, while its head increases in size. It is now called the male pronucleus; it becomes the centre of a radiate arrangement of the yelk, rapidly approaches the female pronucleus and becomes fused Fig. S4.—Impregnated Ovum of Sea-Urchin. The male and female pronucleus, lii and f, approach. (Hertwig.) with it, to form the nucleus of the impregnated ovum. In mammals a number of spermatozoa pierce the zona pellucida. Cleavage. The nucleus of the impregnated ovum becomes the starting- point of a series of multiplications of nucleated corpuscles by fissiparous division, known as cleavage or segmentation, which may be equal or unequal. In unequal segmentation the first cleft extends from one spot, and the process goes on most rapidly in that neighbourhood. In amphibia and in certain fishes the segmentation, though unequal, involves the whole ovum, which 12 3 4 Fig. 85.—Stages of Cleavage. Ova of bitch from Fallopian tube. Spermatozoa cling to the zona pellucida. 1, Shows division of yelk into two masses, as also the two polar bodies ; in 4 the morula stage is reached. (Kolliker, after Bischoff.) is therefore classified, like ova undergoing equal segmentation, as holoblastic. But in the teleosteal and elasmobranch fishes segmentation is partial, not including the whole circumference, and the ovum is called meroblastic. The organisms. They are aborted ova, as pointed out by Mark, Butschli, Boveri and Hertwig (Hertwig, Eatwickluwjsijesrhichte, 4th edition, p. 40). Each spindle is an organism dividing into two ; the process is therefore an intervention of two genera- tions between the original female germ and that which undergoes impregnation. Recognized parthenogenetic ova have only one polar body ; but they are not the only ova with this peculiarity, for Amphioxus is found by Sobotta (1895) to have likewise only one.