659 THE EYE. which the termination of fibres from the externcal and internal granular layers come into relation. In its superficial part, the rod-fibres are held by Cajal, in opposition to older statements and to Tartuferi and Dogiel, to end each in a spherule, several of which he represents surrounded by the arborization of a single bipolar corpuscle of the internal granular layer. In the deeper part, the cone-fibres give off branches which commingle each with the flattened arborization of a corresponding bipolar corpuscle. The internal nuclear or internal granular lai/er takes its most obvious character from the bipolar corpuscles just mentioned, whose superficial and deep poles pass respectively into the outer and inner plexiform layers. It contains also horizontal or subreticular cells, whose ramifications pass out into the external plexiform layer, mingling with the superficial arborizations of the bipolar corpuscles. Cajal divides them into large and small, both of them with peripheral branches, and with an axis-cylinder ending in an arborization. In like manner at its deeper part this layer presents spongio- blasts or ramifying cells devoid of axis-cylinders, whose branches descend into the internal plexiform layer. Fig. 493.—Connections ok the Horizontal Cells and the Spongioblasts of the Internal Nuclear Layer, a, b, Prolongations in (1) external nuclear layer from rods and cones ; a, b, small and large horizontal cells; c, horizontal cell with descending protoplasmic processes; d, e, flattened arborizations ; /', g, h, i, I, spongioblasts ramifying at different depths in (2) the internal plexiform layer; m, n, diffuse spongioblasts; o, bistratifieii ganglionic corpuscles. (Cajal.) The inner moleciilar or internal ijlexiform layer, like the external plexiform, is a stratum in which terminal ramifications of different corpuscles come into contiguity. Here the deep terminations from the bipolar corpuscles of the deep granular layer meet at five different levels expansions from ganglionic corpuscles of the following layer, and the spongioblasts also ramify in as many strata. The ganglionic layer presents large nerve-corpuscles, and is most largely developed at the back of the eye, where the corpuscles lie two or three deep, while in other places they are in one plane and, toward the ora serrata, are scattered. The corpuscles present each an axis-cylinder-pole continuous with a fibre of the neuro-fibrous layer, and usually several