108 SYSTEMATIC ANATOMY. the circumference, and deficient or membranous toward the centre. Anter- iorly the hody is slightly grooved transversely so as to make the upper and lower margins prominent, and in the thoracic and lumbar regions it is projected well forwards in front of the arch. Posteriorly it is slightly grooved vertically and presents two foramina placed side by side or opening into a common depression, which give exit to veins. The aperture bounded by the neural arch and the body enters into the formation of the spinal canal which contains the spinal cord and the roots of the spinal nerves, and it is called the ring. From the arch the spinous process, or spine projects in the mesial plane, -while the transverse processes project laterally. The parts of the arch intervening between the body and the transverse processes are called the pedicles, and the parts between the transverse processes and the spine are the laminae. The pedicles have their upper margins on a level with the upper surface of the centrum, while the centrum descends further than their lower margins. In fact, in all vertebrata the arch corresponds with the proserial and never with the retroserial half of the centrum. The laminae at their upper margin have a roughness looking backwards, and at their lower margin a roughness looking forwards, marking the attachments of the ligamenta sub- flava. Projecting upwards and downwards, close to the transverse processes, •are the superior and inferior articular processes, carrying articular surfaces, by means of which one vertebra has synovial articulation with another. Above and below the pedicles are the superior and inferior notches; and when the vertebrae are articulated, apertures are left between the inferior notches of one vertebra and the superior notches of the next, and com- pleted in front by the intervertebral disc. These are the intervertebral foramina, and give passage to the spinal nerves. It is important to note that the transverse processes in the cervical, thoracic and lumbar regions are not perfectly homologous structures. The thoracic vertebrae, twelve in number, are specially characterized by the presence of articular surfaces for ribs. The bodies are flat above and below, in the middle of the series they measure from behind forwards as much as transversely, and, except in the first and the three last, they present on the non-central part on each side a small articular facet at the upper margin for articulating with the head of the corresponding rib, and another at the lower margin for the head of the rib below. The ring is small and circular. The spines are elongated, sloping down- FiG. 115.—Fourth Thoracic Vertebra, a, Surface for lower facet of head of fourth rib ; h, for tubercle of fourth rib; c, for upper facet of head of fifth rib.