DUCTLESS GLANDS. 754 Fig. 588.—Deep Surface of Spleen, showing the hikis, with the branches of the splenic artery entering. unduly enlarged it measures in the adult usually from four to five inches in length, from three to three and a half in breadth, and from one to one and a half in thickness; but it is subject to continual changes of dimensions, increasing in size for hours after food has been taken, and in disease it may be enormously enlarged. The spleen has a convex surface or dorsum looking backwards and to the left, continuous behind with a rounded posterior margin, and in front with a thinner anterior margin interrupted usually with irregular notches. The re- maining or internal surface, flattened behind where in contact with the left kidney, and concave in front where in apposition with the stomach, presents in the middle a vertical fissure, the hilus, at which the branches of the splenic artery enter and the tributaries of the splenic vein emerge between the anterior layer of the gastro- splenic omentum and the posterior layer of the splenic ligament, while the smaller sac of the peritoneum barely comes in contact with the spleen. Distinct supplementary splenules are sometimes found near the hilus both in man and other mammals. Structure. Beneath its peritoneal coat and closely adherent to it, the spleen is surrounded by a strong fibrous capsule {tunica propria) closely bound down by continuity of its deepest fibres with a network of trabeculae running through the whole substance. On section the substance is seen to be of a dark venous hue, which, being covered by the fibrous capsule, gives a more or less dull purple colour to the surface; and on slight pres- sure there oozes from the section an abundance of dark pulp, which, when washed away, leaves displayed the fibrous trabeculae arranged in bars and imperfect septa round passages communicating one with another like those of a sponge. By repeated washing the whole pulp can be removed from the supporting framework of trabeculae, and the amount of elastic tissue in the trabeculae is sufficient to cause the framework to recover its original form when left for a short time in water or spirit.- The pulp consists of corpuscles floating in a coloured fluid, and the corpuscles are of various kinds, namely, first, red blood-corpuscles; secondly, leucocytes in great number and variety, some of them similar to those found in the cir- culation, others much smaller, and some greatly larger, containing sometimes coloured substances, and sometimes undestroyed red blood-corpuscles (Stohr); thirdly, caudate or other branched corpuscles. Sections of spleen under the microscope exhibit also networks of branched corpuscles whose size diminishes while their branches elongate the further they are from the trabeculae, and pervade the pulp spaces with meshes of exceedingly fine threads. The