628 THE BEAIN. nuclei round lying horizontally with minute nerve-corpuscles of more than one shape con- nected with them, and the other branching toward the surface from deeper strata. In the deeper part of this stratum there is great abundance of or small corpuscles with little or no proper corpuscular substance them, and from them we pass to what are usually counted the second and third layers, namely, those characterized respectively by small and large pyramidal corpuscles, which, however, graduate regularly one into the other, the smallest pyramids being most superficial, and the largest the deepest. Then comes the primary pale band, and beneath it the fourth layer, or layer of polymorphous nerve-corpuscles of various authors. The primary pale band presents a second stratum rich in nuclei (Cleland, 1870), and beneath it a stratum of horizontally placed medullated fibres. The layer of poly- morphous corpuscles has in it both nuclei and pyramidal corpuscles, though more irregularly arranged than in the more superficial strata, and among other kinds a larger number of fusiform nerve-corpuscles, both vertical to the surface and parallel to it, and also corpuscles with an ascending axis-cylinder. The pyramidal corpuscles are those which are typical of the cerebral con- volution. Their characteristic feature is that they are broadest at their deep end, and taper to a point like a church-spire, the point being directed toward the sur- face and prolonged into a long thread, the ascending or apical pole, which runs straight on, giving off in its course fine lateral branches, till it reaches the where it breaks into a crowd of diverging ramifications its neighbours. Other protoplasmic poles, which immedi- into branches, come off round the base; and an axis- directed downwards and continued into the white Fig. 456.—Semidiagrammatic Section of Grey Matter. (J. C, 1870.) molecular layer, interlacing with ately break up cylinder-process substance in the interior of the hemisphere, springs directly from the base or in connnection with one of the protoplasmic branches, and gives off while in the grey substance from six to ten ramifying collaterals. The medullated" fibres of the white centre of the hemisphere, traced into the grey substance, are at first in bundles, but soon become scattered