533 THE GEEAT SCIATIC NERVE. the plexus. The great sciatic nerve, or, when it is spht at or near its origin, the inner of the two divisions, furnishes muscular branches to the semimembranosus, semitendinosus, and both heads of the biceps, and gives an additional twig to the adductor magnus. THE INTERNAL POPLITEAL (THE TIBIAL) NERVE. The internal popliteal nerve (Fig. 396), the larger of the two divisions, continuing the straight course of the parent trunk, descends along the middle line of the popliteal space, at the lower end of which, passing under cover of the soleus, it becomes the posterior tibial nerve. It is the most superficial of the large structures contained in the space, and is at first external to the main artery; but afterwards, crossing it superficially, it is placed by its inner side. It detaches one cutaneous, three articular, and several muscular branches. The cutaneous branch, the tibial commimicating nerve, is one of the roots of the external saphenous nerve; it descends on the surface of the gastrocnemius and underneath the fascia to the lower third of the leg, where, becoming subcutaneous, it is joined by the peroneal communicating branch from the external popliteal nerve. The resulting trunk, the external or short saphenous nerve, passes behind and below the outer malleolus and runs forwards on the outer side of the foot, forming communications with the musculo cutaneous nerve, and supplying terminally the outer side of the little toe. Occasionally its area of supply is extended to the dorsum of the foot and to the third and fourth toes; the peroneal com- municating branch is sometimes very small, the external saphenous nerve being in these circumstances mainly continued from the tibial communicating trunk. The articular branches, three in number, and of small size, accompany the superior and inferior internal, and the azygos articular arteries respectively. Their terminal twigs pierce the capsular ligament of the knee. The muscular branches supply both heads of the gastrocnemius, the plan- taris, the soleus, and the popliteus. The branch to the last-named muscle descends on its posterior surface, and turns round its lower border to enter it anteriorly. The posterior tibial nerve (Fig. 397) accompanies the posterior tibial artery, and divides terminally, between the internal malleolus and the heel, into the internal and external plantar nerves. It is at first internal to the vessels, but afterwards crossing behind them, descends by their outer border. It supplies muscular branches to the soleus, tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum longus, and flexor pollicis longus. A cutaneous twig, the calcaneo-plantar nerve, is detached from the lower part of the trunk; it pierces the internal annular ligament and ramifies in the skin of the heel and of the inner side of the posterior part of the sole. One or two small articular Jilaments are described as passing from the posterior tibial nerve to the ankle-joint.