MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. 303 extensors and, to a slight extent, as rotators outwards. The tensor vaginae femoris acts upon the tibia through the ilio-tibial band, and on the femur through the external intermuscular septum; it is a rotator inwards, and an abductor of the thigh, and is an extensor of the knee-joint and a rotator outwards of the tibia. In the completion of the extension of the knee it both rotates the femur directly and holds the tibia firm, and in the flexed position of the knee it acts with the biceps in rotating the leg outwards opposing the sartorius, gracilis, semitendinosus, and semimem- branosus, which all rotate the leg inwards. The pyriformis is an abductor and to a slight extent an extensor and rotator outwards of the thigh; the obturator interniis and gemelli are rotators outwards; like the other muscles at the back of the joint they act upon the trunk in walking, assisting to tilt the pelvis over the supporting limb. The quadratus femoris and obturator externus are outward rotators and have in addition a slight adducting action upon the limb. The adductor muscles may act either from the trunk or from the femur. They oppose the gluteus medius and minimus and thus come into play in walking, in balancing the trunk upon the limb. The ]jecti7ieus, adductor longus and adductor brevis assist in flexing the thigh. The gracilis flexes the knee and rotates the tibia inwards. The posterior fibres of the adductor magnus would assist in extension of the hip. The Juwi- string muscles extend the hip and flex the knee. With bent knee they rotate the leg—the biceps outwards, the other two inwards. The rectus femoris flexes the hip and extends the knee; the vasti and crureus muscles extend the knee. The anterior origin of the rectus is the only one tightened when the thigh is extended, and the posterior the only one tightened when the thigh is flexed. The sartorius flexes both hip and knee, everts the thigh and rotates the leg inwards. The ilio-psoas flexes the thigh, and may act either from the trunk or from the femur; acting from below the psoas can produce lateral flexion of the lumbar portion of the column. In walking while the swinging limb is passing forwards, chiefly from the action of gravity after the knee has been bent, the weight of the body is supported by the trunk being drawn over the other limb. The gluteus maximus acts as the chief extensor; the gluteus medius, gluteus minimus and the external rotators bring about the lateral tilting of the pelvis, their action being opposed and modified by the adductor muscles which assist in maintaining the balance of the body. When the stride taken is longer than the natural step the action of the ilio-psoas is required to carry the femur forwards. DEEP FASCIA OF THE THIGH. The deep fascia of the thigh, or fascia lata, is attached above to Poupart's ligament, the body and inferior ramus of the os pubis, the ischium, the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the lower part of the lumbar aponeurosis and the crest of the ilium. Below, it sweeps on the inner side and behind