THE SKELETON. 244 capacity has been estimated to vary normally from 60 to 110 cubie inches, and to be from 85 to 88 cubic inches in the average European male, and in the female about 5 inches less. It varies also according to stature, and in the lower racial types is diminished, thus reaching a minimum in the slightly-built and dwarfish Bosjes, Andaman Islander and Veddah. It is small in various negro races and in Australians. MOVABLE ARTICULATIONS OF THE SKULL. The articulation of the occipital bone with the atlas and axis has been already considered (p. 124). The temporo-maxillary articulation presents two synovial cavities separated by a fibro-plate. The interartic'ular fibro-plate, or so-called fibro-cartilage, is a firm structure thicker behind than in front. Its upper surface is concavo- convex from before backwards, so as to fit into the concavity as well as. the convexity of the articular surface of the temporal bone. Its under surface is concave,, fitting to the condyle of the lower jaw, and closely con- nected with it at the outer and the inner edge. 21ie synovial membrane above- the fibro-plate is looser than that between the fibro-plate and the lower jaw. The fibrous capsule has its. fibres placed vertically behind and also on the sides, while in front they pass inwards to the sphenoidal border of the temporal surface and are closely connected both with the fibro-plate and the ex- ternal pterygoid muscle. The external lateral liga- ment is an oblique band strengthening the fibrous capsule and stretching from the tubercle at the root of the zygomatic process, dowuAvards and backwards to the posterior edge of the outer surface of the neck of the lower jaw. The internal lateral ligament is a strong membranous band extending from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone to the lingula of th^ inferior dental foramen, and separated from the capsule by the internal maxillary vessels and the auriculo-temporal and inferior dental nerves. It Fig. 222.—Temporo-Maxillary Articulation and Hyoid Bone. A, Joint from the outer side, hyoid appended. B, Joint from inner side, a, Interarticular disc ; b, external lateral ligament; c, stylo-hyoid ligament; d, stylo-maxillary ligament; e, body of hyoid bone ; /, g, great and small cornu ; h, internal lateral ligament; i, internal maxillary artery ; k, middle meningeal artery.