GENERAL ANATOMY. 82 ordinary fine connective tissue with few, if any, capillaries devoted specially to its nourishment. But in the case of the stomach and intestines there is a distinct definition of the deep limit of the mucous membrane afforded by a thin but firm muscular layer, the lamina muscularis mucosae, and the whole structure superficial to this is highly vascular for the supply of simple tubular follicles supported by retiform tissue. It may be noted, in comparing mucous membrane with integument, that while epidermis is uniformly epiblastic in origin, and the hypoblast of the embryo is entirely devoted to the development of epithelium of mucous membrane and its glands, the genito-urinary epithelium is in part mesoblastic in origin, and that of the conjunctiva, lachrymal duct, nares, palate, gums and lining of the cheeks are epiblastic. Nor does the tendency to become dry or to pour out mucus on abnormal exposure depend on the source of development, seeing that in such circumstances the vagina becomes dry, while the urinary bladder pours out mucus ; and in the case of the conjunctiva the tarsal part remains moist, while the corneal epithelium becomes dry and opaque. EMBEYOLOGY OR GENERAL DEVELOPMENT. The young animal owes its origin to the union of germs or essential products of reproduction of the male and female parent. The male germ is the spermatozoon, the female germ is the ovum. The human spermatozoon is a body with a firm pyriform head comparable with a nucleus, and a fine thread-like tail which propels it with an eel-like movement, the whole reaching to -Jo^h inch in length. Ova, at a certain s.tage of their development, have a general community of structure, being in fact largely developed nucleated corpuscles, provided with protoplasm, nucleus, nucleolus and cell-wall. The protoplasm is termed the vitellus or yelk, the nucleus the germinal vesicle, the nucleolus the germinal spot, and the cell-wall the vitelline memhrane (zona pellucida or zona radiata). But while this comparatively simple condition is retained in the ova of many invertebrate animals and in Amphioxus, there is added to the protoplasm or formative yelk in the ova of all vertebrata above Amphioxus a greater or less amount of nutrient yelk in globules and granules containing the characteristic substance lecithin and more or less uniformly diffused in the protoplasm or accumulated in mass. The abundance, paucity or absence of nutrient yelk leads to the enormous differences of size in the ova of different animals, and also to great apparent differences in the process called cleavage which is the first to take place after impregnation. In non-mammalian vertebrata, excluding