THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 430 surface of the vertebral bodies. The branches ivhich pass towards the cord are in most cases small, and lose themselves upon the membranes and nerve roots, but a few, larger than the others, are continued into the longi- tudinal anastomotic vessels. The anterior anastomotic vessel, formed above by the junction with one another of the anterior spinal branches of the vertebrals, runs the whole length of the cord in front of the anterior median fissure, and is reinforced by seven or eight lateral branches. The lateral anastomotic chains, arising above from the posterior spinals of the vertebrals, are double on each side, one vessel lying in front of and the other behind the posterior nerve roots. They are smaller and more irregular than the anterior, but run the whole length of the cord, and are reinforced by occasional lateral branches. The basilar artery (Fig. 324) extends forwards and upwards from the posterior to the anterior border of the pons, occupying a median groove on its under surface, and ends by dividing into the posterior cerebral arteries, which have been already described (p. 425). It gives off—(1) the transverse ■arteries, numerous small vessels, which pass outwards on either side, supply- ing the pons and adjacent parts of the brain ; (2) the interned auditory arteries, one on each side, accompanying, in each case, the auditory nerve to the internal ear ; (3) the anterior inferior cerebellar arteries, which ramify on the under surface of the cerebellum and anastomose with the posterior inferior cerebellars of the vertebral; (4) the superior cerebellar arteries, which arise at the extremity of the basilar, immediately behind the posterior cerebrals, and turning outwards behind the third nerves, wind round the crura, and are distributed in branches, some forwards to the isthmus cerebri and velum interpositum, and others backwards to the upper surface of the €erebellum, anastomosing with the inferior cerebellar arteries. The arteries of the cerebellum, pons, medulla, and spinal cord ramify and anastomose with one another in the pia mater, and finally detach small twigs which pass into the nervous substance within which, like the ultimate derivatives of the cerebral arteries, their branches have no anastomotic connections with one another. (2) The thyroid axis (Fig. 318) springs from the front of the first part of the subclavian, a little external to the place of origin of the vertebral artery. It is about a fourth of an inch in length, and divides into three diverging branches—the inferior thyroid, the transverse cervical, and the suprascapular. The inferior or ascending thyroid artery passes from the thyroid axis upwards and inwards, in front of the vertebral artery, and behind the carotid sheath and the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, to the lower and hinder part of the thyroid body, where its terminal branches ramify, anastomosing with those of the superior thyroid artery, and, to a certain extent, with those of the thyroid arteries of the opposite side. On its course the artery supplies muscular, oesophageal, and tracheal branches. An inferior laryngeal branch accompanies the recurrent laryngeal nerve to the