739 THE LARYNX. surfaces look upwards, and have an interval of about quarter of an inch between them. On each side, placed well back, and about the level of the fore part of the upper border, is a slightly elevated circular articular surface for the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. On the posterior surface there is a vertical mesial ridge, and an impression on each side of it for the posterior crico-arytenoid muscle. The thyroid cartilage, the largest and most prominent cartilage of the larynx, is a plate consisting of two symmetrical alae, widely separate behind and united in the middle line in front, the line of junction of the two halves being the narrowest portion, and projecting superiorly so as to form the prominence called pomwn Adami. From this point the upper border on each side at first curves upwards, commencing an S curve which ends behind in a long process, the superior cornu. From the tip of this cornu the posterior border descends in a straight line to the tip of the inferior cornu. The inferior cornu is shorter than the superior, and at its extremity has a small circular surface looking inwards to articulate with the cricoid cartilao;e. On the external surface of the thyroid cartilage an oblique line, slightly pro- minent, extends downwards and forwards, separating the insertion of the sterno-thyroid from the origin of the thyro-hyoid muscle, and ending inferiorly in an overhanging tubercle. The arytenoid cartilages present each three elon- gated sides ascending from a triangular base to a pointed summit which is curved backwards. Of the three sides, one looks backwards and is concave from above downwards, another looks inwards and is flat, while the third, looking forwards and out- wards, is convex. The base has a slightly concave surface for articulation with the cricoid cartilage; its outer angle {processus muscularis) is prominent, and its anterior angle {processus vocalis) is prolonged, giving attachment to the inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament. The cornicula laryngis, or cartilages of Santorini, are two small nodules on the summits of the arytenoid cartilages. The cuneiform cartilages, or cartilages of IFrisberg, are still smaller, soft and yellowish, placed outside and in front of the cornicula, in the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. The epiglottis is an obcordate plate of yellow cartilage. Its narrow and elongated inferior extremity is connected by means of loose elastic tissue with the interior of the thyroid cartilage as far down as the vocal cords, and with the hyoid bone and the raphe of the tongue. Its upper part projects free, the mucous membrane being reflected upwards on it Mesial Section OF Larynx, (t, Hyoid bone; b, c, d, thyroid, cricoid, and arytenoid cartilages ; e, true vocal cord; false vocal cord, and beneath it the ventricle of the larynx; g, epiglottis; h, tongue.