234 THE SKELETON. and has a free border running its whole length. Its attached border, in its fore part, is sloped upwards and backwards, articulating with the line on the maxilla, and behind this it reaches, its highest point, articulating with the lach- rymal and completing the lower orifice of the canal for the nasal duct. From this point a line of slope descends more gradually to the hinder end; in the first part of this slope the margin is folded over to look directly downwards and articulate edge to edge with the lower boundary of the aperture of the maxilla leading into the antrum; in the hinder part it articulates with the line on the palate bone. From the folded part bounding the antrum a small process projects upwards and articulates with the uncinate process of the ethmoid. Fig. 217.—The Right Inferior Turbinated Bone, from lateral side. It articulates at «, with crest of palatal; at b, with unciform pro- cess of ethmoid; at c, with lachry- mal ; at d, with crest on maxillary ; at e, with antral wall of maxillary. THE NASAL BONE. The nasal bone is thickest above, where it articulates by serrated suture with the frontal; the mesial border diminishes in breadth as it descends; the outer border is longer, and is narrow throughout to articulate with the nasal process of the maxilla. These three borders are serrated, while the inferior border is a thin irregular margin separated by fibrous, tissue from the cartilage below. The deep side is marked in its whole length by a groove in which lies the nasal nerve. THE MANDIBLE. The mandible, inferior maxillary hone or lower jaiv consists of right and left parts, which become united into one bone in the first or second year after birth; and the plane of union, even after it ceases to be indicated save by a mere line on the surface, is called the si/mphysis. The part beneath the upper jaw is called the body; from this a ramus ascends on each side; and the projection where the thick and strong lower border of the body passes into the hinder border of the ramus is called the angle. The hinder border of the ramus is continued up to the articular condyle, and the anterior border, rather concave below and convex above, and more nearly vertical than the posterior, terminates in the flat and pointed cmvnoid process which is separated from the condyle by a concavity, the sigmoid notch. The teeth are arranged in sockets whose walls form, like those of the upper jaw, a continuous alveolar ridge or process. Superficially, at the chin is the mental protuberance, an ornament found only in man, and especially in the higher races. Above this, to the side of the symphysis, is a shallow incisor fossa, which gives origin to the levator menti. More externally is situated the mental foramen, the outlet of the dental canal, giving exit to the mental artery and