THE MUSCLES. S64 transverse process of the atlas. It broadens as it passes upwards and inwards to its insertion into the outer area between the curved lines of the occipital bone. Actions. A number of the muscles act upon the skull. By the com- bined action of the complexus, splenius, trachelo-mastoid, superior oblique and recti, of opposite sides, the skull is drawn backwards upon the column, and when the muscles of only one side act an oblique movement is pro- duced; the principal elevator of the cranium is the complexus, and the principal agent in producing oblique movement the splenius. The inferior oblique of one or other side acting without its fellow produces a movement of rotation at the atlanto-axial joint, and is assisted by the splenius, trachelo- Rectus capitis posticus minor Rectus capitis posticus major ,—"—^ ()bliquus capitis superior Fig. 287.—The Posteeior Short Cranio-Vertebral Muscles. (L. Testut.) mastoid, and the larger rectus of its own side. The rest of the muscles act upon the column, producing lateral curvature or extension according as those of one side only or of both sides together are brought into play. Relations and nerve supply. The suboccipital triangle is the space bounded by the margins of the two oblique and the larger recti muscles; the vertebral artery, in a portion of its course, lies in it, and the suboccipital nerve, which supplies the four short posterior cranio-vertebral muscles, •emerges between the artery and the atlas. The deep cervical artery lies on the deep surface of the cervical portion of the complexus, and upon the origins of the multifidus spinae muscle. Further down in the back the dorsal branches of intercostal and lumbar arteries ramify among the muscles of the group. The posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves, dividing into external and internal branches, likewise ramify among the muscles. The external branches pass to the splenius and erector spinae; the internal branches supply the deeper muscles of the back with the exception of the cervical intertransverse and the lateral lumbar intertransverse muscles which are supplied by the anterior divisions of the nerves.