THE SKELETON. 176 surface is turned down on the internal malleolus, deeper in front than behind, and in contact with the inner surface of the astragalus. Posteriorly two grooves are seen; one, behind the internal malleolus, is deep and has lying on it the tendon of the tibialis posticus, with that of the flexor longus digitorum on its surface; the other, slight, sometimes absent, placed at some distance outwards, marks the position of the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The transverse diameter of the lower end of the tibia does not lie in the same plane as that of the head. If the heads of the two tibiae be placed with their backs in one transverse plane, the lower ends will be so directed outwards as to leave a right angle between the inner sides of the feet; but if the anterior edges of the surfaces for the thigh bones be placed in one straight line the feet will be parallel, and the articular surfaces of the internal malleoli will look directly outwards. In the erect posture the tibia, like the femur, is more advanced at its upper than at its lower end. The Fibula, The fibula or peroneal bone is arched more or less backwards, and at its upper end lies behind as well as outside the tibia, while below it is more directly external to it. Thus, an amputating knife, if passed behind the tibia from inside the leg, is liable to be locked in front of the fibula. The head presents an oval surface looking upwards, forwards and inwards for articulation with the tibia, and superficially is subcutaneous. It gives attachment by prominences in front and behind to the ligaments uniting it to the tibia, and is surmounted towards the back by a styloid process to which the short band of the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint is attached; while the long band and the biceps flexor cruris muscle are inserted further forwards. The inferior extremity, whose projection outwards is the external malleoluSy descends further than the internal malleolus formed by the tibia, but is less prominent. It presents three surfaces. One of these, subcutaneous, looks outwards and forwards, is broadest opposite the lower margin of the tibia, and is bounded posteriorly by a vertical border, and anteriorly by one which curves downwards and backwards to meet it. A second surface looks backwards and presents a groove in which the tendon of the peroneus brevis descends, with the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle over it. The remaining surface looks inwards, and is divided into three parts, namely, a triangular articular facet convex from above down- wards; a depressed and uneven part further back, giving attachment to ligaments; and an area above, looking toward the concave outer surface of the tibia, but rather too flat to fit accurately into it, limited in front and behind by two diverging rough lines, of which the hinder is the better marked.