SPINAL CORD. 585 ascending cerebellar tract, and was pointed out by Flechsig. In front of it is the indirect ascending cerebellar tract, or tract of Gowers, whose fibres pass up into the pons before reaching the cerebellum by the superior peduncle; and still further forwards is the descending cerebellar tract, tract of Loiventhcd or Marchi, whose fibres undergo degeneration from above downwards after removal of the cerebellum. Beneath the direct ascending cerebellar tract there runs the important crossed pyramidal tract, continuous with the inner or decussating fibres of the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata. Still deeper, between the anterior and posterior cornua, is the lateral ground part, consisting of fine fibres in bundles separated by grey reticulations, and taking very short courses outside the grey substance. Lastly, at the back of the lateral column, and invading the posterior column, there is a group of fine fibres, the margined tract of Lissauer, connected with the posterior nerve-roots. Gelatinous substance Central canal Column of Goll Tract of Burdach Direct pyramidal tract Anterior ground-tract Fig. 422.—Diagrammatic Transverse Section of Cord in Lower Dorsal Region. On one side the ascending tracts are left white, the descending tracts marked with horizontal lines, and mixed fibres marked with oblique lines. In the posterior column a longitudinal septum, continued down from the furrow between clava and cuneate fasciculus in the medulla oblongata, separates, to a certain extent, an inner portion, the column of Goll, from the larger outer part or tract of Burdach. Both of these columns are partly continuous with the posterior nerve-roots, but in neither do the root- fibres continue for more than a limited extent. The only fibres of the posterior column known to undergo descending degeneration after injury to the cord are deeply placed on the inner side of the posterior cornu, and are known as the comma. Further observation, however, appears necessary before they can be identified with the descending divisions of the bifurcating fibres of the posterior nerve-roots described below. The grey substance of the cord varies in amount at different levels.