513 THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. and their terminal branches reach the pectoral region and the shoulder. The suprasternal branches are slender, and pass forwards across the sterno-mastoid to the integument in front of the manubrium. The supra- clavicular branches cross the clavicle and supply the skin covering the upper part of the pectoralis major. The supra acromial branches ramify over the upper part of the deltoid. DEEP BRANCHES. Connecting branches pass from each of the main trunks to the first ganglion of the sympathetic, and from the first loop to the pneumogastric and hi/jxtglossal nerves. The muscular branches are divided, according to the direction in which they pass, into an outer and an inner group. Those of the outer group supply the sterno-mastoid, trapezius, scalenus medius, and levator anguli scapulae. The nerve to the sterno-mastoid springs from the second nerve; entering the deep surface of the muscle it forms connections with the spinal accessory nerve. The nerves to the trapezius are generally two in number, and are of considerable size; they spring from the third and fourth nerves, in association with the descending superficial nerves; under cover of the trapezius they are freely connected with the spinal accessory nerve. The branches to the scalenus medius and levator anguli scapidae are of small size, and spring from the third and fourth nerves. The branches belonging to the inner group supply the rectus capitis anticus minor, the rectus capitis lateralis, the upper cervical intertrans- verse and prevertebral muscles, and the diaphragm, and assist in the supply of the infrahyoid muscles; the majority are slender twigs which pass at once into the muscles from the neighbouring nerve trunks. The branches to the infrahyoid muscles (rami communicantes hypoglossi), two in number, spring separately from the second and third nerves. They usually join with one another to form a single trunk, which passes inwards and downwards, crossing the carotid sheath superficially, and unites with the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve to form a loop, the ansa hypoglossi, from Avhich twigs proceed to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. The phrenic nerve, along with its fellow of the opposite side, supplies the diaphragm. It springs mainly from the fourth cervical nerve, but receives usually a slender twig from the third nerve, and, as a rule, is connected with the fifth nerve, the first of the brachial i^lexus. It descends in the neck, crossing anteriorly, from above downwards, the scalenus anticus muscle. In the lower part of the neck and upper part of the thorax, the relations of the nerves of the opposite sides are not quite the same. Each nerve crosses in front of the internal mammary artery of its own side, passing from its outer to its inner margin, and is crossed 2 K