GENERAL ANATOMY. 58 investment, which has been likened to basketwork. This is sometimes spoken of as constituting the membrana propria. The word basement mem- brane is also used instead of membrana propria, but might with advantage be dis- carded. Between the secreting pouches there is generally a considerable develop- ment of retiform tissue. Secreting corpuscles are in some instances, as the columnar epithelium of the intestine, distinctly walled cells; but in others the presence of a cell-wall is exceedingly ques- tionable, or may be even denied. Some, as those of the convoluted tubules of the kidney, have the protoplasm always turbid; others, as those of the straight tubules of the kidney, have it always clear. In other situations, as in the gastric follicles, the secreting cells vary distinctly in appearance, according to the condition of activity, becoming most deeply stainable when exhausted. In many parts mucigen is liable to collect in mass towards the free surface of the cell, driving the protoplasm and nucleus to the deep end; causing in the intestinal epithelium swollen and open cups called goblet-cells^ and in salivary glands giving rise to the distinction of mucous acini from others termed by some authors serous^ which have the protoplasm uniformly diffused, and the nuclei in the middle. Fig. 54.—Lobules of Parotid Gland of embrj'o lamb, five inches long, illus- trating ducts and acini. BLOODVESSELS. The blood, though in the lower forms of animal life it circulates in contact with the tissues, is, in all vertebrate animals, contained every- where within walled vessels which constitute a closed circulatory system. In only one organ is there a probable exception to this, namely, the spleen. The bloodvessels are of four kinds, viz., the heart, arteries, veins and capillaries. The arteries distribute the blood from the heart to the minute capillaries, which permit the flow of substance through their walls both to and from the tissues; and the veins bring the blood back to the heart. The heart is in the early embryo a simple tube, like the other orders of bloodvessels, but becomes developed into a distinct and complex structure which is the central organ of two distinct circu- lations, the pulmonary and the systemic. The pulmonary arteries carry impure blood from the left side of the heart to be aerated in the lungs, and the pulmonary veins bring it back purified to the left side of the heart, whence it is carried by the systemic arteries, viz., the aorta and branches, and, having been distributed throughout the body, is brought back by the systemic veins, viz., the superior and inferior vena cava, to the right side of the heart.