ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 652 closely but not inseparably adherent to it. The membrane of Bruch rests on the pigmented epithelium described further on. The ciliary muscle forms a white ring, a tenth of an inch in breadth, extending backwards from the attachment of the iris to the sclerotic. It consists of two sets of unstriped muscular fibres, the radiating and the circular. The radiating fibres arise in the immediate neighbourhood of a groove on the deep aspect of the sclerotic^ at the border of the cornea, the svlms sderae. This groove is the outer border of a lymphatic canal, the circular sinus; and while some of the radiating fibres of the ciliary muscle arise from the iris internal to this canal, others arise from the posterior margin of the sulcus. Diverging from this origin the fibres are inserted on the choroid and into the ring of origin of the ciliary processes. Among the foremost radiating fibres, more or less mixed with them, are the circular fibres first described by Heinrich Miiller. The radiating fibres are largel}^ developed in man as compared with the ox and horse, but the circular fibres are not so well developed. In the seals the circular fibres are enormously developed. Fig. 486. —Human Eyeball from which part OF THE Cornea and Sclerotic have been Removed, a, Ciliary nerves piercing the sclei-otic around the optic nerve; h, ciliary muscle; c, canal of Schlemm or, more properly, of Fontana ; d, pupil; e, iris ; ciliary nerves dividing toward the front of the choroid in which are seen venae vorticosae and arteries. Fig. 487.—Section of Human Eye, y. a, Sclerotic; b, cornea; c, con- junctiva ; d, iris; e, lens ; f, ciliary muscle; g, retina; h, optic nerve. The dentated margin of the white retina is the ora serrata; and be- tween the ora serrata and lens is the ciliary zone, with the most promin- ent parts of the ciliary processes seen as white rays. Above and below the lens, the canal of Petit exhibits a triangular section. The ciliary processes are a series of projections forming a circle of rays projecting on the deep side of the tunica vasculosa, separated by an interval called orbiculus ciliaris from the ora serrata of the retina and edge of the membrane of Ruysch, their bases being opposite the union of the iris with the ciliary muscle, and each presenting a free extremity which points inwards behind the periphery of the iris. They are erectile structures consisting of a rich vascular network supported by connective tissue con- tinuous with the stroma of the choroid, but without pigment. The arteries of the choroid beyond the edge of the membrane of Ruysch run onwards across the orbiculus ciliaris, dilating as they reach the processes, and are