THE NEEVES. 546 from which they emerge—the large or anterior, the small or posterior, and the smallest or external. The large ^palatine nerve (palato-nasal) detaches, as it descends, two branches which ramify on the posterior part of the lateral wall of the nose in the region of the middle and lower meatus. Afterwards, it bends forwards on the under surface of the hard palate, and breaks up into branches which supply the mucous membrane of the hard palate and gum in nearly the whole extent, and communicate with the branches of the naso-palatine nerve. The small palatine nerve ramifies in the mucous membrane of the soft palate. By many it is regarded as giving to the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles branches of supply, the fibres of which are supposed to be derived from the facial through the great superficial petrosal nerve; others hold that these muscles are supplied by the spinal accessory nerve through the pharyngeal plexus. The smallest palatine nerve is directed outwards and downwards, and ramifies over the outer part of the soft palate and the tonsil. The Third Division or Inferior Maxillary Nerve. The inferior maxillary nerve (Figs. 409, 410), the largest of the three divisions, escapes from the skull by the foramen ovale, and enters the zygomatic fossa ; it is formed of two roots which join with one another immediately beyond the foramen; the larger of the two is sensory, and comes from the Gasserian ganglion; the smaller is the motor root of the fifth. The trunk thus formed is very short, and lies on the deep aspect of the external pterygoid muscle. It detaches a recurrent branch and the nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle, and immediately afterwards breaks up into an anterior and a posterior portion, which, close to their origin, are frequently separated from one another by a ligamentous band or bony spicule stretched from the external pterygoid plate to the great wing of the sphenoid bone in the neighbourhood of the spine. The recurrent branch (Fig. 402) passes upwards through the foramen spinosum and divides into two slender twigs, one of w^hich ramifies in the dura mater, while the other, passing through the petro-squamous fissure, ramifies in the lining membrane of the mastoid cells. The nerve to the internal pterygoid springs from the deep surface of the parent trunk, and passes down- wards under the cover of the pterygo-spinous ligament to reach the deep surface of the internal pterygoid muscle. Near its origin it is connected with the otic ganglion. The anterior portion, chiefly motor in function, immediately breaks up into the masseteric, buccal, external pterygoid, and deep temporal branches. The masseteric nerve, a considerable branch, passes upwards under cover of the upper head of the external pterygoid muscle, detaches a posterior deep temporal twig, and bends outwards in the sigmoid notch to enter the deep surface of the masseter muscle. The buccal nerve (long buccal) is directed outwards between the heads of the