THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 527 a small braDch which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch. It terminates in a long slender nerve, which descends to the knee-joint, coursing first in the substance of the adductor magnus, then lying by the inner side of the artery in the popHteal space, and finally piercing the posterior ligament. The accessory obturator nerre, when present, descends along the inner margin of the psoas, crosses in front of the superior ramus of the pubis, and joins the anterior division of the main nerve or terminates in the pectineus. The anterior crural nerve (Figs. 389, 394), the largest offset of the plexus, emerges from the outer border of the psoas, a little below the level at which the external cutaneous nerve escapes. It descends in the groove betv/een the psoas and iliacus, passes behind Poupart's ligament, and, immediately after entering the thigh, breaks up, by the outer side of the femoral artery, into its terminal branches. Within the abdomen it furnishes a number of twigs to the iliacus. The terminal branches are divided into two groups, one of which is mainly cutaneous in its distribution, the other chiefly muscular. The first or more superficial group comprises the internal and middle cutaneous nerves and the nerves to the sartorius. The deeper group is formed of the nerves to the pectineus and quadriceps, and one cutaneous nerve, the long saphenous. The nerve to the pectineus, a slender twig, is directed inwards behind the femoral artery and enters the anterior surface of the muscle. The nerres to the sartorius, usually two or three in number, are at first incor- porated with the middle cutaneous trunk ; they enter the upper part of the muscle. The nerves to the rectus femoris, one or two in number, pass directly to the deep surface of the muscle in its upper part; from one of them a branch is usually directed backwards to the hip-joint. The rierves to the vasti and crureus muscles form a number of large branches which descend for a considerable distance on the surface of the muscles which they supply; terminally they furnish twigs to the knee-joint. The miclclle cutaneous nerve divides, close to its origin, into two branches which usually pierce the fascia lata separately, about four inches below Poupart's ligament; the outer generally traverses the sartorius muscle, while the inner crosses in front of it. They supply the integument of the lower two-thirds of the front of the thigh, their terminal branches reaching the patellar plexus. The internal cutaneous nerve, in its descent, gradually crosses the femoral artery in front. In the upper part of the thigh it detaches a number of twigs which reach the surface by the side of the internal saphenous vein. About the middle of the thigh it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch, the larger, descends by the anterior border of the sartorius, pierces the fascia in the lower third of the thigh, supplies the integument in the vicinity of the inner side of the knee, and furnishes branches to the patellar plexus. The posterior branch,