THE EXTEENAL PLANTAR NERVE. 535 The muscular branches of the external plantar supply the following muscles: flexor accessorius, abductor minimi digiti, flexor minimi digiti brevis, transversus pedis, adductor hallucis, all the interosseous muscles,- and the two or three outer lumbricales. The cutaneous branches (a) ramify on the outer region of the sole, and (b) form the plantar digital nerves of the little toe and the outer side of the fourth. THE EXTERNAL POPLITEAL (THE PERONEAL) NERVE. The external popliteal (Fig. 396) descends along the outer margin of the popliteal space, at first under cover of the biceps muscle and after- wards along the inner edge of its tendon. Immediately below the head of the fibula, it bends forwards, pierces the origin of the peroneus longus, and divides into its terminal branches, the musculo-cutaneous and anterior tibial nerves. On its way it detaches two cutaneous and three articular offsets. Of the cutaneous branches one, the smaller, supplies the skin of the outer and posterior region of the upper part of the leg; the other, the peroneal communicating, joins the tibial communicating in the lower third of the leg to form the external saphenous nerve. The articular branches are small: two of them accompany the external articular arteries to the knee; the third, the recurrent articular branch, arising near the termination of the parent trunk, is directed upwards, through the tibialis anticus, to the joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve (Fig. 399), one of the terminal divisions of the external popliteal, descends between the peronei and extensor digitorum longus, supplying on its way the peroneus longus and brevis, and furnishing some slender cutaneous offsets. A little below the middle of the leg it pierces the fascia and divides into an outer and an inner branch. The outer branch detaches filaments to the skin of the front of the leg, ramifies over the outer side of the dorsum of the foot, forming communi- cations with the internal branch on the one side and the external saphenous nerve on the other, and terminates in dorsal digital branches for the contiguous sides of the fifth and fourth and the fourth and third toes; its area of supply is occasionally diminished in extent by the encroachment, from the outer side, of the external saphenous nerve. The inner branch detaches filaments to the front of the leg and ramifies over the inner side of the dorsum, communicating on the one side with the outer branch and on the other with the internal saphenous nerve; it terminates usually in three branches. The inner of these supplies the inner side of the great toe, the second joins the terminal twig of the anterior tibial nerve which supplies the contiguous sides of the first and second toes, the third supplies the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. The dorsal digital nerves (Fig. 400) supply the integument in each case as far as the base of the nail; they are very variable in their mode of origin.