THE REPRODUCTIVE ORGANS. 772 fepcrnifitic curd Speriiiatic artery \ as deferen Organ of Giralde — \cins Globus majo Hydatids of 1 Morgagni ward to the penis, and in childhood and in the strong adult is thrown \ into transverse corrugations. The subcutaneous tissue is destitute of fat. ; The dartos, the highly muscular deep fascia, governs the corrugations of the skin. The scrotum is supplied with blood by the superficial perineal branch of the internal pudic artery and the superior and inferior pudic ' branches of the femoral, and with sensation by the ilio-inguinal nerve in front and the. inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic and two superficial perineal branches of the pudic nerve behind. Its lymphatics , enter the oblique group of superficial inguinal glands. The testis is of oval form, ap- proaching in size and shape to a pigeon's egg, but with the transverse breadth about a third narrower than the breadth from before backwards. The elements of the spermatic cord are continued to the back of the testis, where they are supported by a certain amount of unstriped muscular tissue, the vessels entering and emerg- ing behind, and the vas deferens lying internal to them against the testis in its whole length. When the tunica vaginalis is laid open the form of the testis is laid bare. It is seen to be incased in a firm fibrous capsule, the tunica albuginea, over which the tunica vaginalis is firmly stretched, and to have above, below and i to the outside of it, uninclosed hy the tunica albuginea, an elongated structurei| which is called the epididymis; its swollen upper end above the testis proper being termed caput epididymis or globus major, the part alongside of the testis the body of the epididymis, and the part below the testis the globus minor. The globus major and minor are closely adherent to the tunica albu- ginea, while the intervening body of the epididymis, placed behind and to the : outside, is separated from it by a pouch of tunica vaginalis, the digittd fossa, .j Projecting from the lower and fore part of the globus major are one or more minute threadlike, clavate or pedunculated bodies called hydatids of Morgagni, vestiges probably of the upper end of an embryonic structure, the duct of Miiller; and further up, where the tunica vaginalis is prolonged a little above the globus major, there may be found some less evident nodules beneath the membrane, which are known as corps de Giraldes, and are un- doubtedly remains of the Wolffian body. Globus minor Fig. 602.—Left Testicle. Tunica vaginalis thrown open. Undulating branches of the sper- matic artery are seen in the tunica albuginea covering the body of the testicle.