THE TEETH. 697 sion where it begins to flatten out to the summit. The single-fanged root tapers, without constriction, at the neck, and is broader from front to back than from side to side. The upper incisors are larger than the lower. The first upper is the largest of all and has the longest fang; the first lower is the smallest of all and has the shortest fang. The second upper incisor is always unsymmetrical, being prolonged as far as the edge of the first incisor on the one side, and on the other bevelled to allow the lower jj canine to fit between it and the upper canine. Normally the summits of the lower incisors are overlapped by the upper; and deviation from this is the essence of the peculiarity of jaw called " underhung." a , h c d e f Fig. 529.—Permanent Teeth, a, Fii'st upper incisor from labial and lingual aspects ; b, upper canine from labial and lingual aspects ; c, upper bicuspid from dental and buccal aspects ; d, upper true molar showing its single inner and two outer fangs ; e, crown of the same ; /, left lower true molar from buccal aspect. The canine or eye-teeth have the middle of the three elevations seen on the summits of the incisors greatly exaggerated, and the depression on the lingual aspect less marked. The root is single-fanged ^ and both longer and stronger than the fangs of the adjacent teeth, causing projection of the walls of their sockets, so as to form the outer boundary of the incisor fossa in both upper and lower jaw. In the most regular dentition both the summits and labial surfaces of the canines are in line with the other teeth, but they often project both upwards and outwards. The hiciispids or false molars have each an outer and an inner cusp on the crown, the outer somewhat the larger. Their roots are deeply grooved in front and behind, and most frequently end in a single extremity, but are often somewhat bifid, and this bifidity is more frequent in the first than in the second or hinder of the two. The molars of the upper and lower jaws, though somewhat similar in the form of their crowns, are easily distinguishable. The upper molars have four cusps, two outer and two inner, and have three fangs, two of them placed one in front of the other on the side next the cheek, cylindrical in form; and a third on the lingual side, broader from before backwards at the base, but rapidly becoming cylindrical, and lying side by side with the hinder of the two outer fangs. The lower molars have a fifth cusp behind the others, and have two broad fangs one in front of the other, each with two foramina at the extremity, and liable to a certain degree of bifidity. The ^In one speciraea in my possession an inferior canine occurs with a biSd fang.