DEVELOPMENT OF AXIAL SKELETON OF TRUNK. 131 the xiphosternum is at first separated from the mesosternum by the sixth and seventh costal cartilages meeting in the middle line.^ Ossification. The vertebrae from the third cervical to the fifth sacral have three principal centres of ossification, namely, a pair appearing in the seventh or eighth week to form the arch and processes, and a mesial ossification, the centrum^ appearing immediatel}^ after. The osseous laminae are united in the first year after birth, and the arches so formed begin to be joined to their centra in the third year. The seventh cervical vertebra has, in the anterior or costal parts of its transverse processes, an additional pair of osseous nuclei appearing in foetal life and detectable for a variable period, and similar nuclei have been seen to occur in the sixth, fifth and second vertebrae. So also the three upper sacral vertebrae, and sometimes the fourth, have each a pair of additional osseous centres, costal in their nature, which make their appearance successively in later foetal life and form the bulk of the lateral masses. Epiphyses^ or supplementary centres of ossification, appearing about the eighteenth j^ear, and recognizable till about twenty-five, are found in con- nection with both the bodies and processes of vertebrae. The bodies have each an upper and a lower epiphysial plate extending as far as the circumference, near which they are best developed; but in the centre, unlike the corresponding epiphyses in other animals, they are deficient. Two other epiphyses are at the tips of the transverse processes and spine; and, in the lumbar "^^^ 7-egion, two additional surmount the mammil- Uppev and^iowej-^epip^^^^^^^^^^ of the body lary processes. The sacrum possesses, besides jerse process; that of the mammillary upper and lower epiphyses of the body of each vertebra, two pairs of lateral epiphyses peculiar to it. The upper and more important of these corresponds in extent with the auricular surface, and is united earlier to the first than to the second and third vertebrae, thereby allowing the second sacral vertebra to continue to increase in breadth (Cleland, 1889). Like the rest of the column, the sacrum is not thoroughly complete till the twenty-fifth year or later. Li the atlas the lateral masses and posterior arch are formed from a pair of ossifications corresponding with those of the arch in other vertebrae. At birth, these are united by a mere ligamentous band in front of the odontoid process; but, during the first year, cartilage appears, and either one, two or three osseous nuclei, which normally become blended with the ^ The origination of the sternum in lateral parts explains the well-known case of M. Groux in whom the two halves remained ununited, and could be pulled separate by the great pectoral muscles when the hands were clasped. Less complete division also occurs. The original distinctness of the lower parts of the sternum from the costal arches may well be kept in mind when comparing with the chelonian plastron.