GENERAL CONSTRUCTION. 591 like them with pia mater; and the pia mater is also seen passing onwards into the interior of the cerebrum by what is called the transverse fissure, separating the root part of the cerebrum from the hemispheres above and on the sides. If the student will now, at the commencement of the study of the brain, glance at one early stage of development, he will be aided in forming a general conception which will materially assist the -comprehension of the adult structure. The medulla oblongata, pons Varolii and cerebellum are developed in the wall of one expansion of the cerebro-spinal cylinder. Optic thialamus Corpoi-a quadrigemina Central lobe , Quadrangular lobe Superior semilunar lobe : : : Horizontal fissure ; : Inferior semilunar lobe : Primitive pouch VA^'OSSKae^ Pineal body ,Valve of Vieussens Ar^/i ^ Depression where raphe ^Aii \ of pons approaches ( the ventricle - ~ Superior crus cerebelli cut -Middle crus cerebelli cut Superior fovea Inferior crus cerebelli cut Stria aciistica 'Ms^''^^ Inferior fovea Ligula Clava "yi' Restiform body f/ fl' Fasciculus gracilis Fasciculus cuneatus // Fig. 429.—Dorsal View of Root of Brain, after removal of hemispheres by a cut at * separating the optic thalami from the corpora striata. The right half of the cerebellum is removed and the valve of Vieussens divided mesially to show the floor of the fourth ventricle. namely, the third primary cerebral vesicle. They constitute the metenecphalon, (or metencephalon and myelencephalon), in the interior of which is left a dilated space, the fourth ventricle, continued up from the central canal of the spinal cord, but devoid of nervous wall in the part behind the upper half of the medulla oblongata. Above the metencephalon the nervous walls are again complete, and on the dorsum an elevation presenting a mesial and a transverse furrow, and on that account called corpora cpuidrigemina, is superimposed, while the canal is again constricted, and is called the aqueduct of Sylvius. This is the mesencephalon, derived from the second primary cerebral vesicle. Forwards from the mesencephalon there is another