451 THE EENAL ARTERIES. loops similar to those -which are formed by the branches of the other colic arteries. The superior haemorrhoidal artenj courses between the layers of the mesorectiim and divides into two branches which descend, one on each side of the rectum. Four or five inches from the anus these branches pierce the muscular coat and break up into a number of slender descending vessels which reach as far as the internal sphincter and anas- tomose with one another and with bi'anches of the middle haemorrhoidal arteries from the internal iliac stems. The suprarenal arteries {capsular arteries or middle suprarenal arteries) (Fig. 336) are two slender vessels which arise from the aorta about the level of the place of origin of the coeliac axis. Each passes outwards across the crus of the diaphragm to the suprarenal capsule of its own side. Each capsule receives in addition a superior artery from the inferior phrenic and an inferior branch from the renal artery. The renal arteries (Fig. 336), vessels of considerable size, spring from the aorta a little below the place of origin of the superior mesenteric artery and pass outwards, one on each side, to the kidney. The right vessel is a little lower in position and is also slightly longer than the left; on its w^ay outwards it passes behind the inferior vena cava. Both arteries lie behind their companion veins, and their four or five terminal branches at the hilum of the kidney are placed in front of the pelvis of the ureter. Besides the terminal branches each arterj^ furnishes a small inferior capsidar artery to the suprarenal capsule, and some twigs to the ureter and to the glands and connective tissue which lie around the kidney. Variations in the renal arteries are very common. Accessory renal arteries are often present, in rare cases reaching in number five or six. The terminal branches which in normal circumstances pass in at the hilum ma}' enter the kidney at any spot. The spermatic arteries (Fig. 336), of the male, spring close together from the front of the aorta a little below the place of origin of the renal arteries. Each artery descends Avith an outward inclination, crossing the ureter and the distal extremity of the external iliac artery, and at the deep abdominal ring enters the inguinal canal in company with the vas deferens, in front of which it descends in a somewhat tortuous manner to the testicle. Its terminal branches supply the epididymis and the body of the testicle; it anastomoses with the artery to the vas deferens, and gives off' cremasteric twigs which anastomose with offsets of the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric artery. The spermatic arteries sometimes spring by a common stem; one or both may arise from the renal. The ovarian arteries, of the female, are similar in origin and in the first part of their course to the spermatic arteries of the male. Each vessel crosses the common iliac artery of its own side, inclines inwards at the margin of the pelvis, and runs somewhat tortuously between the layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, beneath the Fallopian tube, to the