134 THE SKELETON. where it narrows to a border it is rough and gives insertion to the trapezius muscle. The anterior surface, in its narrow external part, gives attach- ment to the deltoid muscle, and more internally broadens into an area looking forwards and downwards, and affording origin to the upper part Fig. 139—The Clavicles. A, View from above of right clavicle : a, origin of deltoid muscle; h, margin giving insertion to trapezius; c, subcutaneous upper siirface ; d, smooth deep surface ; e, origin of pectoralis major ; /, clavicular origin of sterno-mastoid muscle. B, View from below of left clavicle : g, acromial surface ; h, conoid tubercle ; i, trapezoid ridge ; arterial foramina ; ridge of costo-coracoid membrane, with groove of subclavius muscle behind it; m, costo-clavicular impression. of the pectoralis major. The inferior surface presents, near the outer end, a marked roughness for the two parts of the coraco clavicular ligament. Beginning posteriorly in a prominence (the conoid tubercle) projecting back- wards and giving attachment to the conoid part of the ligament, it is continued obliquely forwards and outwards as a ridge for the trapezoid part; near the sternal end the attachment of the costo-clavicular or rhom- boid ligament is marked by an irregular and often depressed surface. Between these two ligamentous marks runs a longitudinal groove, from which the subclavius muscle arises, bounded in front by a ridge for the attachment of the costo-coracoid membrane. The sterncd end, the stoutest part of the bone, is occupied by a large articular surface of somewhat variable curve, prolonged on to a prominent angle directed downwards and backwards, which is locked against the back of the articular surface of the manubrium when the shoulder is thrown backwards. The clavicle has no continuous marrow cavity, but the cancellations in its centre are large, and on the posterior surface there are usually one or two arterial foramina. It is sometimes perforated near its upper and hinder border by a cutaneous nerve. The Scapula. The scapula or shoulder-blade presents (1) an expanded body, with an articular head for the humerus at the outer angle ; (2) projecting behind the body, a spine with a superficial margin prolonged into a flat process, the acromion, which articulates with the clavicle; (3) arising from the upper border, close to the head, an important projection, the coracoid process. The body or blade is of a nearly triangular form, having three borders and an upper, a lower, and an outer angle, the outer supporting the head.