ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. 660 branching superficial poles coming off separately or from a common stem, and directed into the inner molecular layer to end at different depths. The neuro-jibrous layer lies between the nerve-corpuscles and the internal limiting membrane. The fibres of the optic nerve, before entering the retina, lose their medullary and primitive sheaths, and the naked ampullated axis-cylinders spread out in bundles radiating from the optic pore. Those passing outwards arch so as to avoid the macula lutea, which thus receives its nerve-fibres from its whole periphery. Fig. 404.—Ophthalmoscopic View of Centre of Retina, a, Optic papilla ; h, e, veins ; c, d, arteries; /, limit of apparent area of papilla; m, fovea centralis. (Beaunis after Galezowski.) The central artery of the retina, entering it in the centre of the fibres of the optic nerve, divides at once into branches, usually an upper and a lower, which, avoiding the macula lutea, spread out in the neuro-fibrous layer, and together with the nearly corresponding veins can be seen for some distance during life by means of the ophthalmoscope. They are alleged to be surrounded by perivascular lymphatic spaces (His). The capillaries reach no further outwards than the external molecular layer, the external nuclear being non-vascular. The macula lutea, or yellow spot of Soemmering, is situated in the axis of the eye, and is a transversely oval depression about yVth inch in diameter, rendered yellow by a diff'use staining in the vascular layers. In the centre there is an appearance of a perforation, fovea centralis, caused by the absence of those layers. In the macula lutea the cones are greatly increased in number, and in the fovea centralis they replace the rods altogether, at the same time that they attain the elongation of rods and become greatly narrower than elsewhere. The optic nerve-fibres, as already explained, consist only of those required for the macula itself, and even they are absent from the fovea centralis, as the nerve-fibres of the nuclear