553 THE AUDITORY NERVE. direction in the substance of the lateral root; this nucleus receives the fibres of the lateral or cochlear root. The dorsal nucleus, sometimes called the chief nucleus, is a collection of nerve cells placed beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle; it is broadest at its middle part which lies beneath the striae acusticae, and there it reaches inwards to the median line; it extends upwards as far as the level of the nucleus of the sixth nerve. The nucleus of Deiters lies by the outer side of the dorsal nucleus and b}' the inner side of the restiform body ; it hardly reaches so far down- wards as the dorsal nucleus, and is broadest at its upper end. The fibres of the mesial or vestibular root have been traced to the vicinity of the dorsal nucleus and the nucleus of Deiters. THE NINTH OR GLOSSO PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve (Figs. 411, 413) is formed from the two anterior of a series of fasciculi which spring separately from the side of the medulla in the line between the olivary and restiform bodies; the two bundles pass outwards and unite with one another to form the trunk of the nerve. The nerve contains both afferent and efferent fibres. Nuclei of origin. The afferent fibres partly terminate in the anterior or cerebral extremity of the nucleus of the ala cinerea, and partly pass into the funiculus solitarius. The nucleus of the ala cinerea is placed beneath the floor of the lower part of the fourth ventricle in the region of the inferior fovea and ala cinerea; at its anterior part it is covered by the dorsal nucleus of the eighth nerve, and is more deeply placed and a little further from the middle line than behind. The funiculus solitarius passes downwards by the outer side of the nucleus, but its inferior extremity has not yet been satisfactorily determined; it may be compared to the retroserial root of the fifth nerve. The efferent fibres of the nerve take origin from the anterior or cerebral extremity of the nucleus ambiguus, a mass of grey matter which lies in the reticular formation of the fourth ventricle ; it is co-extensive with the nucleus of the ala cinerea, but is more deeply placed in the medulla. The nerve passes outwards to the jugular foramen, through which, in a separate tube of dura mater in front and to the outer side of that which contains the vagus and spinal accessory trunks, it leaves the skull. As it is passing through the foramen, it presents two ganglionic enlargements, the jugular and petrous ganglia. The jugular ganglion is situated in the upper part of the foramen; it is very small and embraces only a few of the fibres of the nerve ; it gives off no branches, and is sometimes absent altogether. The petrous ganglion lies in a groove of the petrous bone, and measures about a fourth of an inch in length; it gives off three or four small connecting branches and the tympanic branch. On emerging from the foramen, the nerve appears between the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid arter}^ and passes downwards and