THE DIGESTIVE ORGANS. 700 or divisions of the pulp. It is the increasing length of the root and the resistance offered to it by the neighbouring bone which forces the crown out through the gum. Increase of length of the body of the lower jaw being effected by absorption of the front of the ramus and addition to it behind, the true molars, which at first lie further back than the anterior border of the ramus, find room in front of it before coming to the surface; but the difficulty mentioned at p. 36, in the way of accounting for the growth of either jaw without expansion of osseous tissue already laid down, is illustrated by the position of the permanent canines in Fig. 530. The eruption of the teeth, both temporary and permanent, occurs generally in very regular order, though in individuals the exact periods var}^ The teeth of the lower jaw appear usually a little later than the corresponding teeth of the upper. Of the milk set, the first incisors are the earliest, and appear from the sixth to the ninth month. They are followed by the second incisors, and these by the first molars; then come the canines, and, lastly, about two years of age, the second molars. The milk teeth are shed in consequence of absorption of their fangs, caused by pressure of the permanent teeth ; the first and second incisors and first and second molars being displaced respectively about the seventh, eighth, ninth and tenth years of age, and the canines about the eleventh. The first permanent molar appears before the shedding of any of the milk teeth, and the second soon after they have all been shed, while the third molar gets the name of wisdom tooth, on account of the lateness of its appearance, because it does not cut the gum till the seventeenth year or a much later period. As an abnormaliti/, additional incisors or canines, one or more, may appear. They are formed on the lingual side of the permanent teeth, and may cut the gum and give trouble, pushing the normal teeth outside the range, or themselves projecting inside the arch. They may fail ever to come to the surface, or may appear after absorption of alveolar processes. They illustrate that the permanent teeth are each merely the second in a transverse series which may be carried further, as it normally is in many fishes. This circumstance has not received due attention, and was, I believe, noted for the first time in a communication of mine to the British Association in 1893; but both a longitudinal and a transverse series must be recognised in dentition, and this not only affords the true key to explain Goodsir's cavities of reserve, but unifies the scheme of dentition in different animals. THE MOUTH. The cavity of the mouth extends back to the pharynx. In front of the ramus of the lower jaw it is divided into a part inclosing the dental arches and a part within them. The mucous membrane is reflected from the lips and cheeks on to the outer surface of both jaws, embraces the teeth, forming around them the gums, and thence is continued on the upper jaw to cover the palate, while, inside the lower jaw, it descends considerably