THE NERVES. 570 however, they remain for a time close to the surface, and become attached to epiblastic thickenings, which lie at the dorsal extremities of the gill clefts. In the opinion of many observers these epiblastic thickenings detach cells which assist in forming the ganglia. The epiblastic thickenings just mentioned have been called the "rudimentary branchial sense-organs of Beard"; they appear to represent the branchial sense organs of fishes, and to be in series with the organs developed in that group along the lateral line. The development of the nerves which grow directly from the brain has not been satisfactorily studied. The development of the olfactory and optic nerves is described along with that of the brain. The oculo-motor nerve seems to develop chiefly as a direct outgrowth from the basal surface of the central organ, but evidences of embryonic ganglionic substance found in its root suggest the probability of its having been formed partly from the neural crest. The development of the fourth nerve has not been satisfactorily studied, but like the third it probably arises partly from the neural crest and partly directly from the brain. The sixth nerve probably grows directly from the ventral surface of the hind-brain. The fifth nerve takes origin from a primitive cranial ganglion, and becomes connected with the side of the hind-brain. The ganglion becomes continuous externally with a lateral epiblastic thickening, and is in all probability partly formed from it. From the ganglion the ophthalmic branch grows forwards in front of the eye, and the inferior maxillary branch grows downwards into the mandibular arch; with the formation of the maxillary process the superior maxillary branch grows forwards. The development of the motor branch of the fifth is not satisfactorily determined, but according to Gaskell there are evidences in its root of a primitive ganglionic origin. The seventh and eighth nerves are formed from one primitive ganglion. The epiblastic depression which forms the ear may be compared to a lateral sense organ, and the deeper layers of its wall probably assist in forming the ganglia of the auditory nerve, from which the nerve-fibres grow to the surface. The facial nerve descends along the anterior border of the hyoid arch, and detaches a branch, the chorda tympani, which runs along the posterior border of the mandibular arch, and joins the inferior maxillary trunk. The glosso-pharyngeal and vagus nerves develop from primitive ganglia. The glosso-pharyngeal descends along the anterior border of the first branchial arch, and gives a small branch to the posterior border of the hyoid arch. The vagus is the nerve of the second and third branchial arches; in the tadpole it gives off the nerve of the lateral line. The bulbar portion of the spinal accessory is to be regarded as a portion of the vagus nerve; the development of the spinal portion has not yet been ascertained. The hypoglossal nerve is regarded by many as arising entirely