THE LIVER. 733 Hepatic structure. The liver presents in section and even through its investments a mottled appearance, which, when more closely examined, resolves itself into closely-set lobules varying in diameter from the twenty- fifth of an inch to twice that size, and each presenting a paler spot ,1 surrounded with darker colour, or a dark spot surrounded with paler colour, according as the blood happens to be more abundant at the cir- cumference or in the centre. The substance is friable, and torn surfaces exhibit lobules torn partially separate. Beneath the peritoneal covering, which is transparent, there is a certain amount of connective tissue not very visible when healthy, but important pathologically, the seat of bloodvessels and lymphatics, and easily seen in section with the aid of the ■4 microscope : this is called the fibrous or areolar capsule. But a larger amount of areolar tissue enters at the portal fissure and invests the branches of the portal vein, hepatic artery and ducts, as well as nerves and lymphatics, which may be traced back- wards together in branching hollows called portal canals; and this investment gets the name of capsule of Glisson. When the substance of the liver is cut across, the sections of the portal canals, each con- taining the loose white tissue of the capsule of Glisson and in it a more or less collapsed branch of portal vein, with a much smaller artery and still smaller duct, contrast with other gaping openings, namely, the sections of hepatic veins with their thin walls closely attached to the hepatic substance. Examined microscopically, each lobule presents in the centre a venous radicle called an intralohular vein, which falls into a suUohular Ijranch of tlie hepatic vein; while, between the lobules, there are situated inferlobiilar branches of the portal vein; but the texture appears principally composed of secreting corpuscles, the hepatic cells. These are unwalled polyhedral bodies, varying in size, but averaging yoVo^^^ inch, pressed with flattened sides each against others; they are of yellowish colour and granular appear- ance, each containing one large spherical nucleus, and some of them two. They may also contain oil globules and coarse granules, which are not, however, part of their proper substance. The hepatic cells i)res(*nt a dis- tinctly radiating arrangement in each lobule, but, when looked at moi-e Fig. 567.—Hepatic Lobule MAGNiriED, showing intra- lobulai' radicle of hepatic vein in the centre, ami inter- lobular branches of the portal vein at its cirennifcniicc. The grey lines are the columns of hepatic cells, tlic l)lack spots their nuclei, the white spaces the lamina df the capillaries, the black lines the threads of white fibrous tissue hardened and stained.