441 THE ULNAR ARTERY. anterior interosseous branch descends in front of the interosseous mem- brane, in company with a branch of the median nerve, as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle ; it then pierces the membrane and is continued to the back of the wrist, where it terminates in anastomosis with the posterior carpal vessels. On its way it gives off, in addition to a number of muscular branches—(a) a slender median artery which accompanies the median nerve in the forearm, and is sometimes much enlarged to take part in the supply of the hand; (h) nutrient arteries to the radius and ulna; {c) anterior communicating branches which, in front of the wrist, anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous branch passes backwards over the upper part of the interosseous membrane, and descends between the superficial and deep layers of the posterior muscles ; much reduced in size below, it terminates in anastomosis with the arteries on the back of the wrist. Besides numerous muscular branches, it gives off a recurrent branch which passes upwards, under cover of the anconeus, to anastomose with the posterior terminal division of the superior profunda artery. (3) The carpal branches. The 'posterior carpal artery is given off a little above the pisiform bone, and passes backwards under cover of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris; it detaches a dorsal digital branch for the ulnar side of the little finger, and inosculates on the back of the wrist with the posterior carpal branch of the radial to form the posterior carpal arch. The anterior carjxd artery is a very slender twig which reaches the front of the carpus and assists to form the anterior carpal arch. (4) The deep branch is given off at the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. It passes backwards between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti brevis to inosculate with the deep palmar arch. Varieties of the ulnar artery. High origin of the ulnar is said to occur in one in thirteen cases; when it takes place the vessel, instead of passing behind the muscles from the inner epicondyle, generally takes a superficial course and only gains its normal situation in the lower fourth of the forearm. In such cases the recurrent and interosseous branches spring from one of the two trunks into which the other artery in the arm divides. An enlarged median artery may spring from the anterior inter- osseous or directly from the ulnar. It generally joins the superficial palmar arch, and, in entering the hand, may pass in front of or behind the anterior annular ligament. The Radial Artery. The radial artery (Figs. 331-335), continuing the line of the brachial, passes almost directly downwards as far as the lower end of the radius; it then bends backwards and downwards to reach the back of the wrist, and finally enters the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones and is continued into the deep palmar arch. In the forearm it lies at first in the