MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 387 part of Poiipart's ligament is the base; this is called the triangle of Hesselbach. AVithiii this triangle a direct hernia pierces the wall; external to it an oblique hernia enters the deep abdominal ring. A much more prominent fold of peritoneum, hoAvever, than that formed by the deep epigastric artery is caused by the obliterated hypogastric artery, which, passing from the side of the bladder to the umbilicus, crosses behind the inguinal canal a little internal to the deep epigastric artery. The depressions on either side of this prominent fold are sometimes called the external and internal inguinal fossae. These names are somewhat con- fusing, for while a hernia piercing the wall in the internal fossa is always of the direct or internal order, one piercing in the external fossa is direct or internal on the one hand or oblique or external on the other, according as it passes to the inner or to the outer side of the deep epigastric artery. MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PEEINEUM. In the posterior part of the perineum or pelvic outlet the anus is surrounded by the external sphincter muscle, so named to distinguish it from a somewhat deeper band of fibres, the internal sphincter, which, how- ever, is to be regarded merely as a thickened portion of the proper musculature of the bowel. From the pelvic wall on either side the levator ani muscle sweeps downwards and inwards to blend with the wall of the lower part of the rectum, the terminal part of the bowel, and to form with its fellow a median raphe behind and, for a short distance, in front of the anal aperture. In the male the bladder and prostate gland lie immedi- ately in front of the rectum, and are partiall}^ supported by the anterior portions of the levatores ani muscles, and the urethra passes through the prostate, and is directed forwards under the arch of the pubis to enter the penis. Upon the upper surface of the levatores ani muscles the recto- vesical fascia sweeps inwards and downwards from the pelvic wall to the bladder and rectum, and forms a complete floor of fascia to the pelvic cavity. The lower part of the obturator internus muscle, beneath the line of reflection of the recto-vesical fascia, is lined by the obturator fascia, and the space on each side of the lower part of the rectum, between the obturator fascia and the under surface of the levator ani muscle, is named the ischio-rectal fossa. In the anterior part of the perineum, in front of the ischial tuberosities, a double layer of fascia, the triangular liga- ment of the urethra, stretches from side to side between the opposite margins of the ischio-pubic arch. The posterior or upper of the two layers is at its margins closely connected along the line of its bony attachment with the obturator fascia, and in its central part is blended on the under surface of the prostate with the recto-vesical fascia. In the male the triangular ligament is pierced by the membranous portion of the urethra, and between its layers lies the constrictor urethras muscle. Upon the superficial aspect of the under or anterior layer of the ligament lies the