THE SKELETON. 172 loy a similar line and groove beginning internally further forwards and directed more backwards, but the groove disappears before reaching the fossa, and the line changing its direction cuts off a narrow patellar strip on the outside of the condyle from the tibial surface. In the erect posture the two condyles rest on the tibia in a horizontal plane while the shaft is oblique; but when the knee is bent, the inner condyle projects forwards in the same direction as the shaft and pushes the patella to the outside. The posterior extremities of the surfaces of the condyles turn upwards to the base ■of the triangular area of the shaft; and here the outer condyle becomes narrow and slightly curved inwards, and, when the shaft is held vertically, comes a little higher than the inner condyle. Above the back of the inner condyle a rough surface indicates where the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle arises; a weaker mark similarly placed above the outer part of the back of the external condyle gives attachment to the plantaris, while a depression outside the extremity of this condyle is the place of origin of the outer head of the gastrocnemius. On the sides towards the back, about the centre of the helix described by the condyles, are the external and internal tuberosities which give attachment to the lateral ligaments of the knee-joint; and below and behind the external tuberosity is a deep groove, directed downwards and forwards, the jpopliteal groove, lodging the popliteus tendon in the flexed position of the knee, and at its lower and fore part giving attachment to it. A very slight but constant depression in the lower border of the groove marks the position of the tendon when the knee is extended (Mackay). Within the intercondylar fossa there are two special roughnesses: one for the anterior or external crucial ligament is placed well back on its outer wall, and the other for the internal or posterior crucial ligament is at the fore part of the fossa. The Patella. The patella (rotula) or knee-pan is of the nature of a sesamoid bone, developed Fig. 169.—Patella. A, Superficial view. B, deep view, . iyioo^firvn n-P flio nmarl showing the articular surface with its vertical ridge dividing IH ^riC inserLlOn 01 LD.G quau- oKeTnnTr edge.'''''^ riceps exteusor femoris. It i^ broad above, pointed below, flattened superficially, thick at its straight superior margin where the rectus femoris and crureus are inserted. Its deep surface is articular, ■except at the lower part, which is rough and, together with the edges of the pointed projection below, gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The articular surface is divided by a vertical elevation into a broader external portion transversely concave, and a narrower