297 MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. most anterior at their origin pass almost directly outwards to the inner margin of the gluteal ridge; those succeeding are oblique in direction and are inserted by short tendinous fibres into the inner margin of the linea aspera and the upper third of the supracondylar line; the most posterior fibres descend almost vertically behind the others to the adductor tubercle, where they are inserted by a rounded cord-like tendon. Through the break in the insertion opposite the greater part of the supracondylar line the femoral vessels pass. Three or four smaller openings at intervals along the line of insertion transmit the perforating arteries. The posterior part of the muscle is superficial above, below it is covered by the gracilis and semimembranosus. Variations of the internal muscles of the thigh. Contiguous muscles iire frequently found more or less united with one another—thus, the adductor longus with the pectineus, and the adductor magnus with the longus, brevis, or quadratus femoris. The adductor brevis and pectineus are occasionally found in two portions, and in the case of the adductor magnus the upper and lower fibres are sometimes quite separate from the rest of the muscle. Variations in extent of attachment are not very frequent in this group, but the pectineus is sometimes found connected with the capsule of the hip-joint. ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. The muscles of this group are the sartorius, quadriceps extensor femoris, and the ilio-psoas. The sartorius and a portion of the quadriceps cross both hip- and knee-joints; of the others, the ilio-psoas acts upon the hip, the remainder of the quadriceps upon the knee. They are, with the exception of the psoas, supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The psoas is supplied by special branches from the lumbar plexus. The sartorius, long, narrow and superficial, and formed of longitudinal bundles which run the whole length of the muscle, arises from the anterior margin of the ilium, the origin extending for a short distance downwards from the anterior superior spine. It is inserted by a thin expanded tendon which detaches fibres to the fascia of the leg and the capsule of the knee-joint into the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia at its upper €nd in front of the tendons of the gracilis and semitendinosus. In the upper portion of the thigh the muscle is directed downwards and inwards; afterwards nearly directly downwards, near its insertion, the tendon bends forwards. It crosses the rectus femoris, ilio-psoas, pectineus, adductor longus, the femoral vessels, and vastus internus, and forms in the upper part of the thigh the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangle. The quadriceps extensor cruris is formed of four parts—the rectus femoris, vastus externus, vastus internus, and crureus, which have a common insertion into the patella. The rectus femoris, the most super- ficial, and distinct almost to its insertion, springs from the hip bone and