143 THE KADIUS. 'but simply from lying on the opposite side of the wrist from the styloid process of the ulna. Reaching outwards to near the extremity of this process, the inferior articular surface looks downwards and somewhat inwards, with an inclination forwards caused by the prolongation down- wards of the posterior margin. It is pentagonal in form, and divided by a prominent line into an outer triangular part, which articulates with the scaphoid bone, and an inner quadrilateral part which articulates with the lunar bone. At its inner border it meets at right angles a surface looking inwards and concave from before backwards, which re- volves on the ulna, and is separated from the radio-carpal joint in the recent state by a triangular fibro-plate, which leaves no mark on the macerated bone. Behind and on the outside, the lower end of the radius is marked by grooves in which tendons are lodged. On the outside of the styloid process there is one groove in which lie the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb; it is surmounted by a roughness to which the supinator longus is attached. Behind there are two broad grooves, and between them a narrow groove directed down- wards and outwards, with its outer margin alwaj^s prominent and its inner margin variably developed. The narrow groove lodges the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, while the outer broad groove is subdivided into an outer and inner part, lodging respectively the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior and that of the extensor carpi radialis brevior; and the other broad groove gives passage to the tendons of the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis muscles. The Ulna. The ulna is much more slender at its lower than at its upper end. It is longer than the radius, and passes up beyond it to fit its olecranon process into the corresponding fossa of the humerus. The upper extremity presents two articular surfaces termed greater and smaller sigmoid cavities, and two projections, the olecranon and coronoid processes. The great sigmoid cavity, articulating with the humerus, looks forwards and is semicircular from above downwards, with a vertical ridge in its whole extent. It is constricted, and sometimes divided, in the middle, and above this it forms the front of the olecranon, while below it occupies the upper surface of the coronoid process. Internal to the ridge, it is transversely concave; while externally it is in its olecranal part bevelled, so as to present an elongated outer facet only used in approach to extension, and in its coronoid part is hmited by the upper margin of the smaller sigmoid cavity. The small sigmoid cavity is on the outer side of the coronoid process, and is concave from before backwards, fitting against the vertical surface on the head of the radius. The olecranon has a rough upper surface, giving attachment to the triceps, and behind has a triangular sub- cutaneous surface continuous with the border which separates the posterior