767 THE URETERS. THE URETERS. The ureter is the duct conveying the urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. It is from about fourteen to sixteen inches in length. Commenciug at the pelvis of the kidney, which narrows as it emerges jfrom the hilus, it curves downwards and is soon reduced to about a fifth iof an inch in diameter. It ends in the lower part of the bladder, begin- ning to pierce the wall of that viscus about two, inches from its fellow of the opposite side and an inch and a half from the base of the prostate. It is slightly dilated before entering the vesical coats, but becomes con- tracted in its succeeding part which courses gradually through them for more than half an inch to end in an oblique slit-like orifice pouting on I the outflow of urine, but pressed shut by the contents of a distended bladder, so as to prevent regurgitation. In the abdomen the ureter lies behind the peritoneum, resting on the psoas muscle, and is crossed by the spermatic vessels and nerves; also, on the right side, by the mesentery of the lower end of the ileum, and, on the left, by the mesentery of the sigmoid flexure. It dips into the pelvis over the termination of the common iliac artery or the commencement of the external iliac, and as it courses forward is crossed in the male on its inner or peritoneal side by the vas deferens, while in the female it is in contact with the vagina before reaching the bladder. Varieties. It may happen that the renal calyces, instead of opening into one pelvis, are gathered into two ureters (even three have been known to occur); and these may either join together or remain separate till close to the bladder. Structure. The walls of the ureter present fibrous, muscular and mucous coats. The fibrous or outer coat consists of felted fibrous tissue. The muscular coat consists of a layer of circular fibres, and of deeper longitudinal fibres in the whole length of the duct; while, superficial to the circular fibres, longitudinal fibres are found in the lower third, but only in isolated bundles in the upper half (Toldt). The mucous membrane consists of a membrana propria and subjacent loose tissue, and is clothed with a stratified epithelium, whose superficial cells are flattened, while the deepest are smaller, rounded and oval, and intermediately placed are others of an elongated form, rounded at their superficial ends, and sending down pointed processes between the deeper cells. The vessels and nerves are from renal, vesical and mesenteric sources. The occurrence of lymphatic nodules and minute recesses, sometimes described as glands, seems to have been made out in the pelvis of the kidney and the upper part of the urethra. THE URIXARY BLADDER. The bladder, as seen when artificially distended after death, is of an ovoid form, with the long axis mesial and the broader end below, and