GENERAL ANATOMY. 54 Development and regeneration. While it is ascertained that the nerves and nerve-corpuscles of the brain, spinal cord and spinal ganglia, and even the earliest fibres to the muscles are derived from the medullary epiblast, the origin of the nerve-corpuscles of the sympathetic and of the plexuses of distribution, such as those within the cornea, heart, diaphragm, and intestines, is more problematical. The medullary sheath, when present, is always a later formation^ and within the brain and spinal cord different strands acquire it at different periods of development, a circumstance which has been made use of by Flechsig to distinguish different continuous tracts of fibres. When a nerve is divided, the granular degeneration which sets in causes the axis-cylinder of the distal end to waste away, at the same time that the nuclei in connection with the primitive sheath become more numerous and prominent, but it is not certain that they assist in regeneration. The new axis-cylinders are formed in continuity with those on the proximal side of the lesion, and, according to Ranvier, two or three may come from the cut end of one, and force their way on in the track of the degenerated nerve. EPITHELIUM. The word epithelium is used to indicate a covering of nucleated cells or corpuscles on a free surface; and, with little exception, all free surfaces have an epithelium^ either consisting of one layer of corpuscles, in which case it is simple, or of several layers, and then it is said to be stratified. The individual corpuscles may have cell-walls or may have none; they may vary in consistence from a delicate pulp, or a film of the utmost tenuity, to the densest horn ; they are of numerous forms and functions; and they are, as a rule, united by a cement more easily soluble than themselves, to constitute a continuous texture. Simple epithelia are named according to the characters of their cor- puscles, squamous, columnar, cubical, spheroidal, polygoncd and ciliated. Stratified epithelia are named from the character of the superficial stratum of cells, according as these are squamous, cubical or ciliated. The cells of their deeper layers present a great variety of appearances, requiring separate descriptions in each locality. Squamous epithelia exhibit corpuscles having the form, of flat scales of considerable size, each with its nucleus. Many simple squamous epithelia are of extreme tenuity, and some became known for the first time when weak solutions of silver nitrate came into use. The silver has a special tendency to deposit on the cement between the scales, chloride being formed, which on exposure to light is decomposed, leaving the oxide, and brings the lines of contact into view, even when it is not deposited in their interior, so as to show their structure. To this order of epithelia belong the linings of the heart and bloodvessels, lymphatics, serous membranes and the