72 GENERAL ANATOMY. occurs in connection with it, h _ middle of each ridge are the orifices of sweat-ducts at regular distances one from another. The pattern of these ridges is seen on the surface of the epidermis, and presents differences on the tips of the fingers of different individuals, which have been recommended as marks useful for identifica- tion of criminals. The regular arrangement of the papillae and sweat-glands, together with absence of hairs and sebaceous glands, and great thickening of the epidermis, are peculiarities of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. The bloodvessels of the corium distribute their capillaries to the papillary stratum, every papilla containing a capillary loop; con- sequently superficial scratches and abrasions bleed copiously. By this arrangement an abundance of papillae brings a large amount of blood within reach of the epidermis; but abundance of blood at the surface is not always accompanied with thickness of cuticle : the cuticle of the lips is thin. Muscular fibre, although not an essential part of the corium. Striped muscular fibres are found where striped muscles are inserted into the skin, as in the chin; and unstriped muscular fibres are much more widely distributed in connection with hairs and sweat-glands, and are described as occurring in the prepuce and about the nipple. The epidermis, cuticle or scar/skin, is a stratified squamous epithelium varying much in thickness on different parts of the body. It is broadly divisible into two great layers, namely, the growing part and the part con- verted into horn, readily separated one from the other by accumulation of moisture, whether from over-irrita- tion of the deep corpuscles during life, which constitutes blistering, or from incipient putrefaction after death. The growing epidermis, called also rete mucosum or layer of Malpighi, is soft and easily stained with carmine. Its corpuscles are of different forms at different depths. Resting in contact with the corium, there is a single layer of vertically elongated corpuscles, and superficial to them are those of smallest size, which are of similar breadth, but rounded or polyhedral in form. Passing still towards the surface, the corpuscles get larger and flatter till the deep limit of the horny layer is reached, where they become suddenly quite scaly and horny. The elongated or columnar stratum Fig. 67.—Vertical Section of Epidermis and Cutis Vera of front of finger, a. Horny epider- mis ; from h to e, growing epidermis ; h, stratum lucidum ; c, stratum granulosum ; d, polyhedral strata with prickle-cells; e, columnar stratum with striated appearance dependent on elongated processes; /, surface of cutis vera squeezed separate from the epidermis, and exhibiting in this locality interdigitating processes; g, capil- lary bloodvessels passing up into two papillae ; h, orifice of sudoriparous duct which shows the spirality of the duct in the liorny epidermis; i, nerve breaking into fine branches; k, touch- corpuscle.