MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. 335 portions of the tendon. The recti muscles are inserted tendinously into the anterior part of the sclerotic coat of the eyeball, at distances varying from a third to a fourth of an inch from the margin of the cornea or transparent portion of the wall of the globe. The direction of the muscles as they pass forwards is of importance in connection with their actions. The superior and inferior muscles pass outwards as well as forwards, the external rectus markedly outwards, the internal almost directly forwards. The external rectus rises partly from the upper and partly from the lower portion of the common tendon; between its heads the upper and lower divisions of the third, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth nerves enter the orbit, and the ophthalmic vein emerges. The oblique muscles are two in number, the superior and inferior. The superior arises in close proximity to the upper and internal recti immediately in front of the optic foramen, and is continued forwards close to the inner angle of the orbital roof as far as a cartilaginous pulley, which is attached to a depression on the orbital surface of the frontal bone, close to the margin of the cavity. The rounded tendon of the muscle, lubricated by a synovial sheath, turns over the pulley, and is continued backwards, outwards, and downwards, passing underneath the tendon of the superior rectus, by the outer margin of which it is inserted into the sclerotic, a little behind the middle of the globe. The inferior or smaller oblique arises from the floor of the fore part of the orbit, from ^ depression in close proximity to the margin of the bony canal which ^ives passage to the nasal duct. It passes outwards and backwards underneath the inferior rectus, and turns upwards to be inserted under cover of the external rectus into the posterior part of the globe, in line with the attachment of the superior oblique. The levator palpebrae superioris arises by a narrow pointed tendon from the small wing of the sphenoid bone, immediately above the optic foramen. Broadening as it passes forwards, the muscle lies immediately above the superior rectus. Close behind the anterior margin of the orbit, it ends in a fibrous expansion, which is inserted into the tarsal membrane of the upper lid, and into the outer and inner tarsal ligaments. A few fibres are detached to the conjunctiva, and a few are given to the pulley •of the superior oblique muscle. The external rectus is supplied by the sixth nerve, the superior •oblique by the fourth, all the others by the third nerve. The fascia of the orbit presents a somewhat complicated arrangement; to special portions of it the names external capsule and internal capsule have been given. The external capsule forms sheaths for the four straight muscles, and gives ofi"sets which inclose the levator palpebrae and superior oblique. It is weak in the posterior part of the orbit, but stronger in front. Traced forwards from the optic foramen upon the straight muscles, it is found as a thin layer stretching between the margins, and splitting to inclose