LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 505 pass to the superior deep cervical glands. A small ])ostpharyngeal gland lies upon the vertebral column; it receives vessels from the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles. The superior deep cervical glands form a chain which lies by the side of the internal jugular vein, in the region between the base of the skull and the thyroid cartilage. They receive the lymphatics of the cranial cavity, the efferent ducts of the internal maxillary glands, and some of those of the parotid and submaxillary groups, the vessels from the posterior part of the tongue, the lower part of the pharynx, the upper part of the larynx, the upper part of the thyroid body, and those from the deep muscles of the upper part of the neck. In connection with the lymphatics from the posterior part of the tongue one or two small lingual glands are found on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle. The efferent ducts from the superior deep cervical glands are continued to the inferior deep cervical glands. The inferior deep cervical glands are found by the side of the lower part of the internal jugular vein. They receive the efferent ducts of the superior deep cervical glands and those of the superficial cervical glands, and the vessels from the lower part of the larynx, the lower part of the thyroid body, the cervical portions of the trachea and oesophagus, and the deep muscles of the lower part of the neck. The vessels from the lower part of the larynx pass through one or two small laryngeal glands which lie by the side of the upper part of the trachea. The efferent ducts from the deep cervical glands unite to form the jugidar lymphatic trunk which opens, on the right side, into the right lymphatic duct, on the left, into the thoracic duct, or, occasionally, on one or both sides, into one of the great veins at the root of the neck. Vessels. The superficial lymphatics (Fig. 376). The lymphatics of the scalp pass to the occipital or, when these are absent, to the superficial cervical glands, and to the mastoid and parotid glands; from the eyelids and the upper Icdercd region of the face the lymphatics pass to the parotid glands; from the nose, lips, and lower Icdercd region of the face they pass to the submaxillary glands. From the external ear the lymphatics are directed to the parotid and mastoid glands. The superficicd lymphatics of the neck are received by the superficial cervical glands. The deep lymphatics. The lymphcUics of the brain form plexuses in the pia mater, and are afterwards collected into larger trunks which escape from the cranium by the sides of the carotid and vertebral arteries and the internal jugular veins, and terminate in the superior deep cervical glands. The meningecd lymphatics accompany the meningeal arteries to the internal maxillary and superior deep cervical glands. The lymphatics of the sjnncd cord pass outwards through the intervertebral foramina by the sides of the entering arteries, and terminate, according to the region, in the deep cervical, posterior intercostal, and lateral lumbar glands. The lymphatics from_ the orbit enter the internal maxillary glands, as do also