THE SKELETON. 120 articulated rib sometimes occurs in connection with the seventh cervical vertebra; it may be of considerable length, and in front is usually free, but may be united to the rib following. Sometimes, in a thorax other- wise normal, one of the ribs bifurcates in front, and is prolonged forwards by cartilages which approach or unite at the sternum. The costal cartilages take origin from the ribs in an oblique line extending from above downwards and outwards. The first seven, and not unfrequently the eighth (Cunningham), are prolonged to the sternum. Of these the first is the shortest and strongest, and is the only one which is united to the sternum by direct continuity in the same way as it is united to the rib. The others are united by movable articula- tion, usually with the intervention of a small synovial cavity, or, in the case of the second, third and fourth, two such cavities, an upper and a lower. From the third downwards the cartilages slope upwards with an increasing slope to reach the sternum. Those which fail to reach the sternum are pointed at the extremity; the eleventh and twelfth being short and free, while the others are prolonged forwards, and become adherent for a considerable distance by fibrous union, each to the carti- lage next above it, sometimes presenting a considerable temporary increase in breadth, and even the intervention of an articular cavity. Though the costal cartilages are usually invaded, as life advances, by calcification in the interior, and may be incrusted with bone on their surface, this ossification is irregular, and the positions of the ends of the ribs remain constant. THE STERNUxM. The sternum consists of segments which unite at different periods one with another. Three portions are recognized: the uppermost, the man- ubrium, extends down to the second costal cartilage, and only in advanced life becomes united by bone to the next portion. The lowest part, the ensiform process, projects downwards from the insertion of the last sternal costal cartilages, and is seldom united to the part above it till middle age. The hodi/, or part intervening between the manubrium and ensiform process, presents two obvious segments opposite the second and third intercostal spaces, and below these a remaining portion on which the traces of having belonged to more than one segment of the skeleton are more obscure. The manubrium, or presternum, is the strongest and broadest part. It has a somewhat convex superficial surface, a flat deep surface, and four borders. Its upper border is thick and consists of three parts, an inter- clavicular depression (incisura semilunaris), and on each side of this an articular surface looking upwards, outwards, and a little backwards, for the sterno-clavicular articulation, concavo-convex both from behind forwards and also from without inwards. The lateral border exhibits superiorly a vertically placed rough surface where the first costal cartilage joins it, and, beneath this, is concave and smooth as far as the angle separating it