THE MUSCLES. 270 The internal intermuscular septum extends from the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, from which it receives fibres, to the internal epicondyle. It is pierced by the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries, and by the ulnar nerve and a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The external septum, not so strong as the internal, stretches from the insertion of the deltoid, from which it receives fibres, along the outer ridge to the external epicondyle. It is pierced by the anterior division of the superior profunda artery and by the musculo-spiral nerve. MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. The muscles of the forearm are arranged in four groups, two of them superficial in position, the other two deeply placed. Of the superficial groups the inner springs from the internal epicondyle of the humerus and spreads downwards and outwards over the front of the forearm, and the muscles belonging 'to it, which enter the hand, pass in front of the anterior surface of the wrist; the outer springs from the external epicondyle, and the muscles belonging to it, which reach the hand, cross the posterior surface of the wrist joint. The hollow of the elbow is a triangular space of variable size placed in front of the elbow-joint; its apex is directed downwards and slightly outwards; it is bounded on each side by the marginal muscle of the inner and outer groups respectively. The deep groups of muscles belong respectively to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm. Anterior and Inner Superficial Group. This group is formed of five muscles. From without inwards they are the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor digi- torum sublimis, and flexor carpi ulnaris. They are very closely associated together at their origin from the internal epicondyle from which they spring in the order named, and in addition each receives fibres from the investing fascia of the forearm and from intermuscular septa which pass between and separate from one another the individual muscles at their upper ends. Besides the origins already mentioned three of the five muscles present additional slips or heads. The pronator teres receives a slip from the coronoid process, the flexor carpi ulnaris is connected with the olecranon process, and the flexor digitorum sublimis has its main head of origin from the humerus, continued downwards upon the internal lateral ligament and the coronoid process, and receives in addition a thin broad slip from the oblique line and anterior border of the radius. The pronator radii teres {pronator teres) springs from the internal epi- condyle, the fascia of the forearm and an intermuscular septum on its inner side; and it receives an additional slip from the inner side of the ■coronoid process. The muscle is somewhat rounded in outline, and is