THE EYE. 657 parent condition gives place after death to a milky white. The retina comes to an apparent margin in front, called ora serrata, placed about a tenth of an inch from the ciliary processes, and bounding the orbiculus ciliaris between. The ora serrata is in a continuous line in the ox, but in the human subject it is divided into numerous concavities separated by teeth. Beyond the ora serrata, a cubical unpigmented epithelium, continuous with the bacillary layer described below, lies behind the pigmented epithelium on the ciliary processes, and is called the ciliary part of the retina. Dr. Eeid has displayed and photographed this layer behind the iris also. Excluding the pigmented epithelium, seven layers may be distinguished in the retina. The outermost forms in its development the lining of that part of the primary optic vesicle which is not lined by the pigmented epithelium, and it is called the bacillary layer. The other six are included between structureless external and internal limiting membranes, and consist of an outer nuclear layer, an outer molecular layer, an inner nuclear layer, an inner molecular layer, a ganglionic and a neuro-fibrous layer. These are held together by a considerable amount of delicate substance, con- stitutino- a connective framework between the external and internal limit- o ing membranes, and giving, in vertical sections, an appearance of fibres, still known as Midler's fibres (Heinrich Miiller), broadening out at their attachments to the limiting membranes. The haciUary layer, or visual epithelium, consists of vertically placed elements called rods and cones, both presenting an outer and an inner part: the outer part consisting of a highly refractive but perishable structure stained black by hyperosmic acid and resolvable into thin discs piled one on another; the inner part finely granular, of protoplasmic character, con- taining at its outer end an elliptical lens-like body, also said by some observers to contain a central thread. The inner part was found by Max Schultze to present fine grooves round about, separating apparent fibres which he traced on to the outer part, while, near the base, they were connected with a crown of fine threads coming up from the external 'limiting membrane. The rods are much the more numerous, and mostly I about Q-Jo-th inch long. Their outer or laminated portion is about half their total length and cylindrical, and their inner or basal portion is much the same shape. Their outer portion is the sole seat of the visual purple. jThe cones are shorter than the rods, the shortness depending principally on the outer portion, which is also narrower, especially at the apex, and is devoid of visual purple. But the inner or basal portion of the cone is ! considerably broader than that of the rod. Consequently, looked at from the surface, the ends of the rods are seen lying close together, while the broad bases of the cones appear as larger circles with the tip of the outer portion in their middle. In birds, reptiles and amphibians, the cones I present at the outer end of the basal portion oily-looking globules of red and green colour. In amphibians the bacillary structures are of gigantic size. 2 T