MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 269 The anterior and posterior walls come nearly into contact at the bicipital groove of the humerus, but have lying between them the biceps and coraco- brachialis, which may be considered as forming a narrow outer wall, against which rest the axillary vessels, with the trunks of the brachial plexus of nerves. The inner mill is covered by the serratus magnus. The apex is bounded by the clavicle, the upper margin of the scapula, and the outer margin of the first rib. The base is covered by the axillary fascia. Deep Fascia of the Shoulder and Arm. Fascia of the front of the shoulder. A somewhat thin layer of fascia covers the anterior surface of the pectoralis major. It is attached above to the clavicle and internally to the sternum: below, it is continuous with the abdominal fascia; externally it passes into the fascia covering the deltoid and into the axillary fascia. Fascia of the back of the shoulder. A strong layer of aponeurosis covers the infraspinatus and teres minor, where they are left uncovered by the deltoid. It has attachments to the spine and the vertebral and axillary margins of the scapula, and is continuous posteriorly with the fascia covering the trapezius, rhomboidei and latissimus dorsi. At the hinder margin of the deltoid it splits; one portion passes superficial to the muscle, and becomes continuous with the fascia covering the pectoralis major; the other invests the muscles on the deep surface of the deltoid. The fascia is continuous in front and below with the axillary fascia and the fascia of the arm. Muscular fibres of the suspraspinatus and infra- spinatus muscles spring from its deep surface, and the deltoid tendon at its posterior border is partially blended with it. The axillary fascia is the name given to the strong layer which, stretching between the anterior and posterior borders, forms the floor of the axillary space. It is continuous below with the fascia of the arm, in front with, that covering the pectoralis major, and behind with that of the latissimus dorsi and teres muscles. On the deep aspect of the pectoralis major a strong layer of fascia, the costo-coracoid membrane, stretches from the first rib at its sternal end to the coracoid process (Fig. 152, A); at its upper border it embraces the subclavian muscle, and is fixed to the clavicle; below, it surrounds the pectoralis minor and joins the fascia stretched across the base of the axilla, binding it down, so that when the arm is raised the axilla has its greatest depression towards the front. The costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by the cephalic vein and by branches of artery and nerve supplying the pectoralis major. The deep fascia of the arm, for the most part thin, but becoming stronger in the neighbourhood of the epicondyles, completely surrounds the muscles. At the inner edge of the biceps, near the middle of the arm, an opening transmits the basilic vein aud internal cutaneous nerve. Two well-marked intermuscular septa separate the muscles of the front from the triceps behind, and afford origin from both surfaces to muscular fibres.