THE MUSCLES. 582 ABDOMINAL FASCIA. The deeper layer of the superficial fascm, at the lower part of the anterior wall, goes by the name of the fascia of Scarpa. Scarpa's fascia is firmly fixed to Poupart's ligament, extending as far inwards as the superficial abdominal ring. On account of this attachment, fluid which has been effused under the superficial fascia of the abdomen is prevented access into the thigh. At the ring the fascia passes downwards over the cord, or in the female the round ligament, and becomes continuous with the superficial tissue of the scrotum or labium, according to the sex. The superficial tissue of the scrotum is named the dartos tunic or fascia; it has a reddish colour, and contains a number of involuntary muscular fibres. It is continuous behind with Colles' fascia, the superficial fascia of the anterior part of the perineum. Along the middle line of the abdomen the superficial fascia is fixed to the linea alba, and is continued below into the superficial fascia of the penis, which, like the dartos, contains a few involuntary muscular fibres, but is devoid of fat. A strengthened portion from the lower part of the linea alba and the symphysis attached to the dorsum of the penis near the root constitutes the suspensory ligament of the penis. A very thin deep layer of fascia lies close on the surface of the external oblique muscle, and becomes blended with its tendon at the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, taking part in the formation of the intercolumnar fascia. The lining fascia of the abdomen. The anterior surface of the quadratus lumborum muscle is covered by a moderately strong layer of fascia, which goes by the name of the anterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis. At its inner margin it is attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and blends with the upward prolongation of the iliac fascia, which covers the psoas muscle; at its outer edge it is partly continued into the transversalis fascia on the deep surface of the transversalis muscle, and partly into the aponeurotic sheet formed by the union of the posterior and middle layers of the lumbar aponeurosis which forms the posterior tendon of the transversalis muscle. Below, it is fixed to the iliac crest; above, it passes as a very thin layer on to the diaphragm. A strengthened band, the ligamentum arcuatum externum, arches from the transverse process of the first or second lumbar vertebra to the inner surface of the last rib near its point, crossing the quadratus muscle and giving origin to a number of the fibres of the diaphragm. The iliac fascia, which below covers the iliacus muscle, is continued upwards as a fine layer over the surface of the psoas muscle, and spreads thence to the diaphragm, and is attached externally to the transverse processes, and internally to the vertebral bodies and intervertebral discs. Between the body and the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra the fascia is strengthened in the form of a fibrous band, the ligamentum .arcuatum internum, which gives origin to a number of the fibres of the