710 THE DIGESTIVE OEGANS. Resting in the neck and upper part of the thorax on the longus colli and bodies of vertebrae, as it descends further it is bent forwards and removed from contact with the vertebral column by the intervention of the aorta which, placed to the left at the commencement of its descent, is mesial in position where it passes between the crura of the diaphragm. In front are the trachea and commencement of the left bronchus and, below this, the pericardium. The left common carotid artery is more closely in contact with the oesophagus than the right, partly because it arises nearer the vertebral column and partly on account of the deviation of the oesophagus to the left side. The recurrent laryngeal nerves lie close in between the oesophagus and sides of the trachea. The vagus nerves come into close contact with the oesophagus below the arch of the aorta, and as they descend, giving branches to its walls, the right nerve turns to the posterior and the left to the anterior surface. The thoracic duct lies between the oesophagus and right vena azygos in the lower part of the thorax, and between oesophagus and vertebral column higher up. The walls of the oesophagus present three coats—muscular, submucous and mucous. The muscular coat has its fibres evenly disposed in two layers, longi- tudinal and circular. The longitudinal fibres are most superficial, and at the upper part take origin from the cricoid cartilage anteriorly, and from the inner surface of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx behind and at the sides. The circular fibres are surrounded by the longitudinal, and above are separated by them from the constrictors of the pharynx. The submucous coat consists of loose areolar tissue which allows the mucous coat to fall into longitudinal folds within the grasp of the muscular coat. The mucous membrane presents, besides epithelium, two layers which can be stripped separate one from the other. That which is next to the submucous areolar tissue consists of longitudinal fibres, which inferiorly are muscular (Toldt) and continuous with the muscularis mucosae of the stomach. The other, the mucous membrane proper, is a firm felted tissue, and on the surface presents loosely scattered papillae, some isolated and some connected in rows, which when denuded of epithelium are filiform. The epithelium is stratified squamous, like the lower part of the pharynx, and forms tubercular elevations over the papillae. Small mucous glands are sparsely scattered in the upper part of the oesophagus, in the submucous layer. THE STOMACH. The oesophagus, after piercing the diaphragm, opens into the stomach, the first abdominal portion of the digestive tract, and separated from the intestine by a valve termed the pylorus^ which consists of a ring of addi- tional fibres of the inner muscular coat and a circular fold of mucous