THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 13 within anastomosing cell-walls which are concerned in the first formation of bloodvessels in the area vasculosa. THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. The connective or binding tissues include a large variety of structures differing in appearance and firmness, the firmer varieties forming protective sheaths and uniting bands, by means of which the whole body is joined together, while the finer descriptions not only surround the elements of texture and special structures of organs, but are closely associated with their nutrition. They all consist of corpuscles embedded in matrix or deposited substance, and to the nature of this the different varieties owe their physi- cal characters. The deposited substance is of two kinds, gela- tiniferous and yellow-elastic, and each of these occurs in fibrous and homogeneous forms. Gelaiiniferous substance, as it exists in the body, is of unknown chemical nature, but by pro- longed boiling is dissolved, being converted into gelatine. It is often found homogeneous, as in p.o. t.-Con^ective tissue from orbit of ox, exhibit- structureless membranes and the j^';^ STliLuclbrT '^'"''^^^ "^^''^^ most superficial part of the true skin, and this condition passes by gradual transition into the fibrous, which is termed luhite fibrous tissue. White fibres, as seen under the microscope, vary from the faintest fibrillation of an otherwise homo- geneous substance to distinct threads, presenting a double contour, but indefinite in length, which shade away into finer substance. Broader bands which at first seem structureless may be resolved by manipulation into bundles of finer fibres. White fibres may take irregular courses in different directions, felting with one another, or they may be arranged in parallel bundles which are sometimes quite straight, as in tendon, and sometimes present regular angular undulations reflecting the light with satin-like lustre in different directions from different parts of their curves. On addition of acetic acid, they swell up and become invisible under the microscope, but they resume much of their original appearance when the acetic acid is washed away. Structures composed of white fibrous tissues, e.g. the ordinary ligaments