THE TEMPOKAL BONE. 2W tomary to include along with the petrous both the styloid process and the tympanic plate, Avhich are independent developments. The petrous part contains within it the essential organ of hearing called the labyrinth or internal ear, which is divisible into portions called the cochlea and the vestibule and three semicircular canals, all receiving branches from the auditory nerve. The orifice of the ear, external auditory meatus, has the squamous part above it, the mastoid behind it, and the rough external auditory process of the tympanic plate below and in front of it. It leads Supra-orbital notch External angular process Anterior internal orbital) foramen / Posterior uiternal orbital \ foramen j Spheno-palatine foramen Vidian canal i Foramen ovale External auditory meatus Foramen lacerum \ nerves posticum / Mastoid process ETHMOID. Mesial Plate Uncinate process Inferior turbinated process- SPHENOID. Turbinate External pterygoid process- Internal pterygoid process Vaginal process TEMPORAL. CUenoid fossa (Jlaserian fissure External auditory process Carotid canal Styloid process Stylo-mastoid foramen Digastric groove I iccipital groove OCCIPITAL. Jugular process For rectus capitis lateralis Pharyngeal tubercle Condyle Posterior condyloid foramen^ Anterior condyloid foramen. Inferior curved line Rectus posticus superior Rectus posticus inferior Complexus Superior curved line i External occipital i, protuberauce Fig. 204.—Base of Skull, about ten years old, with face bones removed, as also right pterygoid process and right uncinate and inferior turbinated processes of ethmoid. The occipital is ununited to the sphenoid. into the tympanum or middle ear, a chamber transversely narrow, but expanded from before backwards, which in the recent state is separated from the external ear by the membrana tympani, and communicates with the pharynx by means of the Eustachian tube. It may also be mentioned that the tympanum contains within it three ossicles, named malleus, incus and stapes, minute structures utilized in connection with hearing, but integrally connected with the mandibular skeleton, both in the mam- malian embryo and in adult non-mammalian vertebrates. The squamous part has an extensive free border, which may be traced forwards from where it forms the outer wall of a deep cleft in front of