472 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. is sometimes absent when the anterior jugular is large. It contains a valve a little above its lower extremity. The anterior jugular vein (Fig. 351) takes origin in the inframaxillary region from a number of small vessels, which communicate laterally with the submental veins. It descends in the superficial fascia in front of the larynx and trachea, and near the clavicle perforates the deep fascia and is con- tinued backwards, immediately above the bone, on the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to terminate in the lower part of the external jugular vein. It is connected above the sternum with its fellow of the opposite side by a transverse branch, which crosses the lower part of the trachea. It is of very variable size. It frequently receives a communi- cating branch from the facial vein. In many cases it ends in the sub- clavian or innominate vein. The suprascapular and transverse cervical veins accompany the corre- sponding arteries, and terminate in the external jugular, sometimes in a plexiform manner, a little above the clavicle, in front of the third portion of the subclavian artery. The posterior jugular vein is of very variable size, and when well developed usually communicates above with the occipital vein. Descending behind the sterno-mastoid it falls into the external jugular vein some little distance above the clavicle. The posterior auricular vein descends from the lateral part of the scalp where its radicles communicate with those of the temporal and occipital veins. It receives branches from the pinna and passes downwards, crossing the sterno-mastoid muscle, to the upper extremity of the external jugular vein. The temporo-maxillary vein, a short trunk, lies in the lower part of the parotid gland. It is formed above, opposite the neck of the jaw, by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins, and divides below, opposite the angle, into two divisions, the anterior of which descends to the facial, while the posterior, joining with the posterior auricular, forms the external jugular. Occasionally it passes entirely to the external jugular, which then usually, at its upper end, either gives to or receives from the lower end of the facial a communicating branch. The temporal vein is formed immediately above the zygoma by the junction of a trunk formed by the union with one another of anterior and posterior superficial branches with a deep or middle temporal. The radicles of the superficial branches ramify over the lateral part of the scalp and com- municate with the vessels in front and behind, and those of the other side; those of the deep branch, which pierces the temporal fascia, communicate with the deep temporal and orbital veins. The temporal vein crosses the zygoma behind and superficial to the artery, and unites opposite the neck of the jaw with the internal maxillary vein. It receives anterior auricular, glandular, articular, and transverse facial branches. The internal maxillary vein, a short trunk, passes backwards, under cover of the ramus of the jaw, from the pterygoid plexus, and joins the temporal vein.