THE TEETH. 699 lastly those for the incisors, the first incisor before the second. Goodsir demonstrated that the sacs so formed become closed by folds or opercula meeting over them, the incisor sacs by two, the canines by three, and the molars by four; also that above these the lips of the groove adhere, the outer lip overlapping the inner; and that between the inner lip and the adjacent operculum another follicle, the cavity of reserve, dips in to form the sac of the permanent tooth, and rapidly descends so as to lie deeper than the milk sac, while it continues to be connected with the surface from which it sprang by a cord which passes through the foramen always present on the deep side of the alveolus of the temporary tooth. The sacs of the true molars he showed to be separated in succession backwards from a posterior or great cavity of reserve continued back from the primitive groove. Later writers, who have observed in section the epithelium filling the various recesses, speak of the epithelium in the groove as the common enamel-germ, and of the process descending to the cavity of reserve as the Fig. 531.—DEVELOPMr.NT of a Temporary and a Permanent Tooth, a, Papilla in primitive groove ; b, follicle with opercula over it in the secondary groove ; c, follicle converted into closed sac by adhesion of opercula, and permanent tooth sac left above inner operculum ; d, e, f, permanent tooth sac descending, and temporary tooth growing up ; g, permanent tooth sac connected with surface by cord passing through foramen in the deep wall of the temporary socket. secondary enamel-germ, while for the mass inclosed in each sac and for its deepest or columnar layer the terms enamel-organ and enamel-memhmie ' (Purkinje) are retained. The enamel-membrane is the only part concerned in producing the enamel-prisms; the corpuscles in the middle of the enamel- organ become drawn asunder by fluid, while retaining connection one with another by long and slender branches, and ultimately disappear. Beneath the enamel-membrane a delicate structureless layer appears to exist, for which the old term ^reformative membrane is used. More deeply placed is the layer of odontoblasts, easily distinguished from the corpuscles of the enamel-membrane by their larger size. As the enamel-corpuscles elongate to form prisms, their nuclei remain at the extremity furthest from the dentine. The enamel and dentine appear simultaneously at the tips of the cusps, each cusp in the multicuspid teeth forming at first a distinct toothlet. The separate cusps unite, and the crowns are completed from above downwards. The roots extend by continuation of growth beyond the sac. In the molar teeth bridges of dentine are formed below the crown by processes growing in to meet one another between separate bundles of vessels and nerves, and the fangs increase in length by growth downwards round those bundles