470 THE YASCULAE SYSTEM. the first intercostal vein. One or two valves guard the termination of the vertebral vein. The deep cervical vein commences in the suboccipital plexus, through which it is continuous with the occipital veins. Below the plexus, the vein, continued downwards, accompanies the deep cervical artery. It terminates in the vertebral vein. The inferior thyroid vein (Fig. 351) descends in front of the trachea in company with its fellow of the opposite side, with which it is frequently united by transverse branches. The left vein terminates below in the left innominate vein, the orifice being guarded by a valve; the right vein either joins its fellow of the left side, or terminates separately in the angle of junction between the innominate veins or in the right innominate. Internal Jugular Yein (Figs. 351, 352). This great vein, continuous with the lateral sinus, descends from the posterior part of the jugular fora- men, and on its way lies by the outer side, first of the internal carotid and afterwards of the common carotid artery. It terminates behind the sternal end of the clavicle in the innominate vein. At its commencement in the jugular foramen it is somewhat dilated, and receives the inferior petrosal sinus. About an inch above its termination a couple of valves are found. Its lateral tributaries are the middle and superior thyroid, the lingua), facial, and pharyngeal veins ; and in many cases it receives a communi- cating branch from the external jugular vein. The middle thyroid vein, from the side of the thyroid body, crosses the common carotid artery a little below the level of the cricoid cartilage, and falls into the internal jugular. The superior thyroid vein (Fig. 353), accompanying the superior thyroid artery, passes outwards to the internal jugular, crossing the upper part of the common carotid artery. The lingual veins (Fig. 353). Two small venae comites accompany the lingual artery, and eventually join with one another to form a stem which receives the much larger ranine vein, a vessel which, passing backwards from the tip of the tongue, crosses the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle immediately below the hypoglossal nerve, and receives on its way the sublingual and dorsal branches. The common lingual vein crosses the external and internal carotid arteries, and either falls directly into the internal jugular or unites with the terminal part of the facial vein. Occasionally the branches which make up the lingual vein enter the internal jugular separately. The facial vein (Fig. 353) collects the blood from the anterior part of the scalp and from the face. It commences near the vertex of the head in a net- work which anteriorly is continued into the frontal vein. The frontal vein passes towards the root of the nose, communicating across the middle line with its fellow of the opposite side, and above the inner canthus unites with the supraorbital vein, a vessel which draws its supply from the lateral part of the forehead. The common trunk thus formed, the angular vein, is directed backwards and downwards, passing the inner canthus, and, below the orbit, is