THE SPHENOID BONE. 217 of the base of the cranium, and slopes outwards and forwards to meet the anterior at a point which comes almost or quite into contact with the great wing. The orbital wing arises, not only internal to the optic foramen, but also external to it by a strong bar separating that foramen from the sphenoidal fissure; and in front of the exit of the optic foramen a short internal orbital plate separates the sphenoidal sinus from the orbit, and articulates in front with the os planum of the ethmoid and the orbital plate of the sphenoidal turbinated bone. The great or posterior ala or wing arises from the body, opposite the side of the sella turcica, and rapidly expands backwards and forwards. It is separated from the small wing by the foramen lacerum orhitale or sphenoidal fissure, a gap rounded internally, and narrowing and ascending as it extends outwards,—the aperture of exit of the third, fourth and sixth nerves, and the ophthalmic or first division of the fifth, and giving entrance to the ophthalmic vein. The great ala may be most conveniently described as divisible by a line drawn outwards from the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure into a posterior horizontal part and an anterior ascending part. The horizontal part of the great ala forms portion of the floor of the middle fossa of the base of the cranial cavity, lying on a lower level than the sella turcica, and supporting the middle lobe of the brain. Its outer border articulates roughly with the squamous part of the temporal bone, and its posterior border, directed backwards as well as outwards, forms a thin edge which is barely in contact with the petrous portion of the temporal, com- pleting with it inferiorly a groove in which lies the Eustachian tube. Projecting downwards from the posterior and outer angle, there is a short and stout spinous process, giving attachment by its rough edge to fibres of the tensor palati, and presenting on its inner side a small groove (Lucas) for the chorda tympani nerve; and immediately in front of this is the foramen spinosum, through which the middle meningeal artery enters. Anterior and internal to the foramen spinosum, and, like it, closed off in development from the posterior border, is the large foramen ovale which transmits the inferior maxillary nerve, the third division of the fifth. Considerably further for- wards and inwards, closed off originally from the anterior border, and lying outside and below the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, is the foramen rotiindum, which is directed forwards immediately below the level of the orbit, and transmits the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. The ascending part of the great ala lies altogether in front of the junc- tion with the body, and is a three-sided mass projecting upwards and outwards. Its summit is rough, articulating principally with the frontal bone, but coming in contact also with the parietal outside and behind the frontal articulation. By means of its posterior border it articulates with the squamous part of the temporal bone, in continuity with the horizontal part of the ala; and anteriorly it presents a thin border which articulates with the malar, while internally, by means of a free border, it bounds the sphenoidal