267 MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. olecranon process; this tendon is continuous at its margins with the fascia of the forearm. The remaining fibres of the muscle coming from the inner head pass, some to the deep surface of the superficial tendon, and some directly to the upper surface of the olecranon, where they are inserted close to the place of attachment of the capsular ligament. Some of the deepest fibres are attached to the capsule and receive the name of suhanconeus. The lower fibres of the outer portion of the inner head lie from origin to insertion side by side with the higher fibres of the anconeus. A narrow area of bone intervenes between the deep and superficial insertion into the olecranon, and the space is usually occupied by a small bursa. The muscle is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve, which, along with the superior profunda artery, descends between the outer and inner heads in the musculo-spiral groove. The anconeus, a small triangular muscle, arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the posterior surface of the external epicondyle of the humerus. It is inserted into a rough line on the outer surface of the olecranon process and into the outer edge of the posterior border of the ulna, extending in many cases nearly a third of the length of the bone. The uppermost fibres of origin are very short, and lie in serial continuity with those of the lower and outer part of the inner head of the triceps, from which at times they are not easily distinguished. Neither is the muscle distinguishable from the humeral heads of the triceps in function. Moreover, it is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, which arises from the main trunk above the middle of the humerus, and traverses the deep part of the triceps. There is therefore much to be said for looking on this muscle as a part of the triceps. Actions of the Muscles of the Shoulder and Arm. In considering the special agencies which produce the various move- ments of the arm upon the body, it must be borne in mind that the shoulder-girdle is only directly articulated with the trunk at the sterno- clavicular joint, and that it receives its chief support from the surround- ing muscles, notably the trapezius and the levator anguli scapulae. The movements at the scapulo-humeral articulation are very free and are permitted in all directions, their limits being set partly by the ligaments of the joint, and partly by the tension of the surrounding muscles; Init all movements at the joint are accompanied to a greater or less extent by movements of the scapula upon the chest wall. As an example, when the arm is being raised from the side, in addition to the movement at the scapulo-humeral articulation, sinuiltaneous movements of both shoulder blade and collar bone take place, the scapula rotating in such a manner that the lower angle passes forwards and upwards, the upper being corre- spondingly depressed and draAvn backwards, while the outer end of the clavicle is pulled backwards and somewhat tilted so that the anterior edge is turned upwards.