670 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. tube. The tympanic cavity is a space measuring approximately one-eighth of an inch from without inwards, half an inch from above downwards, and three quarters of an inch in its longest diameter, which extends forwards and inwards. It is bounded internally by the pars petrosa of the temporal, is \ roofed mostly by the lamina of the pars petrosa called tegmen tympani, and is I floored by the tympanic plate. It communicates behind with the mastoid ! cells ; and into the formation of its outer wall there enter the membrana tympani, the pars squamosa and the tympanic plate; while, in front, it ] narrows to the Eustachian orifice. The walls exhibit various points of interest. On the margin of the deep end of the external auditory meatus ^ there is a distinct sharp-edged groove, absent only from the part above and in front, where there is a notch, the notch of liivini, and the meatus is completed by the pars squamosa. In the inner tympanic wall there are two foramina. One of them, fenestra ovalis, is elongated transversely and is occluded in the recent state by the base of the stapes; the other. Mastoid antrum Fenestra ovalis Pyramid Fig. 505.—Internal Wall of Tympanic Cavity. (Panscli.) fenestra rotunda, placed below the fenestra ovalis and looking backwards and outwards, is occluded by membrane, the secondary rnernhrane of the tympanum. Above and in front of the fenestra rotunda there is a con- vexity, the promontory, corresponding with the commencement of the cochlea. Above the fenestra ovalis the wall of the aqueduct of Fallopius projects as it passes backwards, after having crossed transversely outwards above and between the cochlea and vestibule. In the posterior wall of the tympanum the same tube turns outwards before descending to the stylo- mastoid foramen by a course in which it is no longer seen from the tympanic cavity of the dry bone. Above the aqueduct of Fallopius a large irregular recess, the mastoid antrum, leads back into the mastoid cells. This antrum exists before birth, though the mastoid process beneath it only becomes gradually swollen out in future years by cells lined with mucous membrane prolonged from the tympanum. On a level with the fenestra ovalis the posterior wall presents an elevation, the pyramid, with a perforation in its summit for the passage of the tendon of the stapedius