GENERAL ANATOMY. 74 The sudoriparous or sweat-glands are found all over the body. They are simple tubes, with the secreting part convoluted in the form of a ball from which a straight duct proceeds. The convoluted portion and the commencement of the duct are lined with simple cubical epithelium. Occasionally, e.g. in the heel, the sweat-glands are bifurcated. They lie in spaces in the deepest part of the corium, or in the subcutaneous tissue, not all at the same depth, but some with shorter ducts than others. When the horny epidermis is stripped off and examined on its deep surface, hair-like processes are seen projecting from it which are tubular prolongations lining the sweat-ducts for some distance. The ^ ^ horny scales of these prolongations lie edge- wise to the surface of the skin, toward which they are gradually pushed, and as they pass up among the corpuscles of the growing epider- mis, the unshrinking tube which they form is thrown into a spiral by the continual flatten- ing of the corpuscles around, so that, in places where the horny epidermis is very thick, as in the heel, as many as four or more turns like a corkscrew may be seen. The sweat secreted by the sudoriparous glands, though mainly a watery fluid with salts in solution, is not destitute of oil on the palmar aspect of the hands where there are no other glands; and oil appears to be more abundant in the sweat of the armpits, where the sudoriparous glands are very large. The ceruminous glands, which secrete the wax of the ear, are largely developed convoluted tubes like sweat-glands. The sebaceous glands are of the racemose type, jDresenting dilated pouches. They are always associated with a hair. Where the hair is large, as on the scalp, they open, one or two of them, a short way down the neck of its follicle, and are little more than simple saccules, with an inclination to lobulation; but the hair may be small, and, especially on the lips and nose, may be situated at the opening of a larger sebaceous gland, the duct of which may divide more than once before terminating in rounded dilatations. The secreting epithelial cells are so flat that they may be termed squamous. Special epidermal growths of two sorts occur in the human subject, Fig. 69.—Sudoriparous Glands three glands with first parts of their ducts more highly magnified. Coiled secreting portions of Ijortion of coiled tube