93 EMBEYOLOGY d—. ~~b in the formation of the voluntary muscles. While in some animals tliis takes places in greater part from the lower and inner walls, in birds it is principally from the roofs that the musde-plates are formed. The material for the formation of the bodies and arches of ^rfw^^rB?-^-, the vertebrae lies to the inside of the meso- blastic somites, and that for the transverse processes and costal arches forms a bar beneath the fore part of each muscle-plate, while the spinal ganglia, though developed, as above noted, from epiblast, come to occupy a posi- tion beneath the hinder part of each muscle- plate ; and thus all these parts were supposed by Eemak to be developed from the proto- vertebrae. Perhaps it were well to include them all in such a term as primitive segment, and to reserve the expression mesoblastic somite for the structure which, so far as per- sistent, is converted into muscle. It has been found in elasmobranch fishes that mesoblastic somites are not only developed in series backwards from the first pair, which constitutes the first muscular segment of the neck, but also forwards in the head. As many as nine of these have been described, the foremost being alleged to form the rectus superior, rectus inferior and obliquus inferior muscles of the eyeball, the second the obliquus superior, the third the rectus externus. The fourth, fifth Fig. 99.—Embryo Rabbit of 8 Days and 4 Hours, ^j-. o., Medul- lary groove ; h, remains of primitive streak ; c, axial zone with two mesoblastic somites ; d, jaaraxial zone ; ee, first indications of heart. (Kolliker.) Fin. 100.—Traxsversk Section through Dorsal Region of Embryo Chick of 45 Hours. «, Medullary canal ; b, mesoblastic somite ; c. Wolffian duct ; d, somatopleure; e, pleuroperitoneal cavity ; /, aorta ; g, bloodvessels ; h, splanchnopleure ; /.■, notochord. (Hertwig, from Balfour.) and sixth are said to disappear, while the three hindermost go to form the muscles uniting the head to the shoulder-girdle (Milnes Marshall). Further, in elasmobranchs, the coelom has been traced forwards into the head, in the visceral arches hereafter to be described; and the walls of these prolongations are supposed to form the muscles of mastication and the branchial muscles. But before forming a final judgment with reference