506 THE LYMPHATICS. those of the nasal cavities, the roof of the mouth, and the temporal and zygomatic fossae. The lymphatics of the floor of the month and the anterior part of the tongue pass to the submaxillary glands; those of the posterior part of the tongue pass through the lingual glands to the superior deep cervical glands. The lymphatics from the pharynx pass partly to the internal maxillary and partly to the superior deep cervical glands. The lymphatic vessels from the parotid salivary gland end in the internal maxillary and parotid groups of glands; those from the submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands enter the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The lymphatics of the larynx form two sets; those above the glottis pass upwards through the thyro-hyoid mem- brane to the superior deep cervical glands; those below the glottis, piercing the crico-thyroid membrane, end in the inferior deep cervical glands. The lymphatics of the thyroid body accompany the upper and lower thyroid arteries to the superior and inferior deep cervical glands. Those of the cervical portions of the trachea and oesophagus enter the inferior deep cervical glands. THE NERVES. I. CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. From the central organ of the nervous system, the brain and spinal cord, there spring on each side forty-three nerve-trunks, the branches of which are distributed throughout the body. Thirty-one pairs, taking origin from the cord, are termed spinal nerves; twelve spring from the brain and are called cranial nerves; one of the cranial nerves, however, the eleventh, receives many of its fibres from the cervical region of the cord. Physiologists have divided nerve fibres into two classes according as they conduct impulses to or from the central organ : those which carry impulses to the centre are afferent or centripetal fibres; those which con- duct from the centre and towards the periphery are efferent or centrifugal fibres. The dorsal roots of the spinal nerves contain only aff'erent fibres; the ventral roots on the other hand are formed of eff*erent fibres; beyond the place of junction of the roots with one another the trunk of each spinal nerve contains both kinds of fibres, and is termed a mixed trunk. Certain of the cranial nerves contain only one kind of fibre, others are mixed nerves. As the nerve-trunks approach the areae of their peripheral distribution the different kinds of fibres of which they are composed separate from one another. Thus, mixed trunks break up ultimately into branches, each of which is either aff'erent or efferent, and has its own special distribution. It may further be remarked concerning cutaneous nerves, that allied nerves are supplied to contiguous areae. Thus, the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves supply one contiguous area of in-