579 AEACHNOID AND PIA MATEK. resembling in this respect other opposed endothelial surfaces. On each side the arachnoid has a series of attachments to the dura mater of two sorts : it embraces the roots of each spinal nerve where they pierce the dura mater, and between the successive roots of nerves it surrounds the attachments of the ligamentum denticulatum to be hereafter described. Within the cranium the arachnoid passes smoothly over the convolu- tions of the cerebral hemispheres and the laminae of the cerebellum, being loosely attached to the pia mater, but not dipping into the sulci. Between the hemispheres it reaches so far down as barely to touch the pia mater of the corpus callosum; and from the hinder end of that structure it passes directly to the upper surface of the cerebellum. There are tAvo spots {cisternae) at which it is removed a considerable distance from the pia mater—one below the cerebellum, where it passes directly down behind the fourth ventricle to the lower part of the medulla oblongata; the other at the base of the brain, stretching over the rhomboid space between and in front of the crura cerebri, and extending laterally to the Sylvian fissure, and between each crus and the overlapping hemisphere. The arachnoid within the cranium is in con- tinuity with the dura mater where ^the different cranial nerves leave the subdural space, also where the veins quit the pia mater and stretch across to the superior longitudinal cavernous and other sinuses. Tlie Pacchionian bodies (described by Pacchioni, 1721) are round semi-transparent structures, irregular in number and situation, but principally occurring near the mesial plane, beneath the roof of the skull, and almost constantly present in the adult; some of them generally pushing their way partially through the dura mater and causing absorp- tion of the inner table of the skull, while others may find their way through the wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. They were shown by Luschka (1852) to be clavate enlargements of villi of the arachnoid, and they may be fairly compared, like the grapelike growths of the nucleus pulposus of an intervertebral disc, with villi of synovial mem- branes. They do not all arise from the surface to which latterly the term arachnoid has been restricted. Luschka, like anatomists of the time when he wrote, looked on the deep surface of the dura mater as covered with a parietal arachnoid, and he carefully described parietal as well as other Pacchionian bodies. I had occasion to confirm his obser- vations (1863). Though acknowledged to be coated with endothelium. Pacchionian bodies often form adhesions which mask the pedicle. The pia mater is the vascular covering of the cerebro-spinal axis. Only very small bloodvessels are admitted within the nerve-substance of the brain and cord; the largest veins showing in sections of the brain as mere dark spots, while the arteries are still smaller. The arteries, after piercing the dura mater, pass into the pia mater and branch out into large numbers of sm^all twigs, from which smaller arterioles plunge vertically into the brain-substance; and in like manner the emerging