223 THE TEMPORAL BONE. bones, (3) a depression bounding the inner or neural part of that foramen opposite the aquaeductus cochleae, already mentioned, and (4) a rough area articulating with the basilar process. The anterior or free division of the inferior surface presents in its outer half the tympanic plate; and this plate floors the external auditory meatus and the tympanic cavity; its anterior margin bounding the Glaserian fissure; its surface concave and smooth, separated by parotid gland from the temporo-maxillary articulation; and its posterior margin sheathing with a projecting edge, called vaginal process, the External anditory meatus Cochleai-iform process Tympanic plate Vaginal process Styloid process Tegmen tympani / Superior semi- ■ \ circular canal _ f Position of internal \ auditory meatus -Hiatus Fallopii 1 j Depression for ^ Gasserian ganglion .. (Jarotid canal -Apex For tensor tympani For Eustachian tube Fig. 207.—Right Temporal from before. The squamous portion and its zygomatic process are seen from the deep side. The mastoid process is seen behind the styloid process. front of the styloid jrrocess, a cylindrical spike of variable length continued into the stylohyoid ligament. Close to the styloid process, and in front of the digastric cleft, is the stylo-mastoid foramen by which the facial nerve emerges from the aqueduct of Fallopius; and behind the inner end of the tympanic plate, internal to the jugular fossa, and in front of it, is the large round carotid foramen, the inferior aperture of the carotid canal, a canal which, entering vertically, is seen to turn at right angles within the bone and to run horizontally forwards and inwards to emerge at the apex into the foramen lacerum medium. The thin ridge between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa presents a small foramen by which Jacobson's nerve enters to reach the tympanum. In front of the carotid foramen, at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, is an irregular opening in the retreating angle between the petrous and squamous parts, the Eustachian orifice; and a closer