INTRODUCTION. Anatomy and Dissection are two words etymologically equivalent, one from the Greek and the other from the Latin. But while the word Dissection retains its primitive meaning, namely, the cutting of parts asunder, the word Anatomy is applied to the conditions of structure which Dissection brings into view, and, widening its signification still further, has become the designation of the science which investigates the structure of organisms. All Anatomy is resolvable into two parts : first, the observation and record of structures, and secondly, the consideration of their meaning. One mode of considering structure is with reference to function, namely, its utility in the organism of which it is a part, and the arrangements for its own growth : this is Physiological Anatomy. Another mode is with reference to form alone, either in its relation to structures in the same animal and in others, or in relation to the series of phases through which it has passed in its development, and this is properly termed Morphological Anatomy. But physiological and morphological anatomy are not unconnected, for structures which appear in one animal or in one stage of growth are modified in others in conformity with functional requirements. The connection of physiological and morphological anatomy is well illustrated in the study of development, which as a process of growth belongs to the domain of physiology, but as a series of successive forms of structure is one of the foundations of morphological anatomy. The forms of animals are widely diverse, and are classified in groups according to the greater or less degree of their structural resemblance; and the same parts can be traced with modifications in animals more or less remote one from another, or in the two sexes of one species. So also, in the same animal, structures similar one to another may occur placed symmetrically like the limbs, or repeated in longitudinal series like the ribs. Structures corresponding in any of these ways are said to be homologous, and their relationship is called Homology, while an animal which has its structures arranged in a chain of homologous parts is said to be segmented, and the parts of the chain are called segments, somatomes, or metameres. A