THE EXTERNAL ORGANS OF THE FEMALE. 793 perineal muscles, and pour their secretion each into a long duct which opens * into the vestibule well forward. The vagina, the passage extending from the vestibule to the uterus has in front of it the urethra, with which it is closely connected, and also the bladder, while the rectum is in contact with it behind, excepting for a little distance above, where the pouch of Douglas intervenes. At the sides it is supported by the recto-vesical fascia, by which and the levator ani it is separated from the ischio-rectal fossa. Being curved, and also pro- longed further up on the posterior than on the anterior lip of the uterus, it has a greater length of posterior than of anterior wall. Prepuce of clitoris Vestibule Urethral onfic^ Duct of gland of Bai tholm ~^ Cilaus and fraenum of clitoris " %\vt.: Xyiupha j Remains of ^ I hymen '0 Fig. 618.—External Organs of Female, with Lower Part of Vagina, laid open from behind. The mucous membrane is continuous below with the vestibule or hymen as the case may be, and is reflected above on the lips of the uterus. It has stratified squamous epithelium, and is furnished with papillae more abundant in the lower part, and with mucous glands more abundant in the upper part. It is thrown to a variable extent upwards into rough transverse rugae, which are specially prominent at the lower end, and gathered together in anterior and posterior columns, from which they arch upwards as they become less prominent on the sides. Both the anterior and posterior columns have a tendency to duplicity, but the mesial part of the anterior column is pro- jected by the thick muscular wall of the urethra. The anterior and posterior columns lie in contact one with the other, while the lateral parts of the wall are pressed against them so as to give a transverse section the form of the letter H. The muscular wall presents longitudinal and circular fibres not separable into distinct layers, and the lower and anterior part is not distinctly separable from the fibres surrounding the urethra. In the mucous