314 THE MUSCLES. shaft of the fibula, and internally to the popliteal line, and below it to the inner margin of the tibia for two or three inches; between the upper ends of the bony attachments fibres, intermediate in position, spring from a fibrous arch which crosses the large vessels and nerve. The muscular belly descends on the tendo Achillis to within a short distance of the heel. The fibres of the muscle which are short and oblique pass between three tendinous structures—one a median vertical raphe, the other two broad sheets of longitudinally running fibres, one almost entirely concealed in the substance of the muscle with its edges appearing on the deep surface, the other covering the superficial surface. The median raphe is continued up from the tendo Achillis ; it is strong and complete below, but above it narrows and is confined to the deep part of the thickness of the muscle. The posterior broad or superficial tendon is likewise con- fl ^ tinned from the tendo Achillis, and becomes finer near the 'Ilk upper end of the muscle. The anterior broad or concealed tendon is stronger above than below, and splits into two as it descends into the region where the median raphe is com- plete ; from both its surfaces muscular fibres spring, so that it is to a large extent hidden within the muscular substance. Those from its posterior surface, forming the great mass, and the edges of the muscle pass chiefly into the posterior broad tendon ; those from its anterior surface, much fewer face'^^^' ^^^^ number, and not occupying the whole extent of the surface, but leaving a marginal area bare on each side, are directed downwards and forwards towards the central raphe. The tendo Achillis {tendo calcaneus), the strongest tendon in the body, extends through the lower half of the leg. It is formed by the broad but thin tendon of the gastrocnemius becoming incorporated with the posterior surface of the soleas tendon. It becomes narrower and thicker as it descends, and then, expanding slightly, is inserted into the lower part of the posterior surface of the os calcis. A bursa intervenes between the upper part of the surface and the tendon. The plantaris, a small muscular belly of about three inches in length, continued into a long slender tendon, is, at its origin, almost completely covered by the outer head of the gastrocnemius. It springs by fleshy fibres from the lower extremity of the external supracondylar ridge of the femur, and from the adjacent portion of the capsular ligament of the knee. The tendon, passing downwards and inwards in front of the gastrocnemius, reaches the inner margin of the tendo Achillis, and in close contact therewith is inserted into the basal portion of the OS calcis. The popliteus, small, thin, and triangular, is closely applied to the bones and ligaments at the back of the knee. It springs from the femur