504 THE LYMPHATICS. accompany the arteries of the hand, forearm, and arm, and terminate in the main group of the axillary glands. Some of them, occasionally pass through a few small glands which lie by the side of the brachial artery. LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Glands (Fig. 376). In most cases one or two occipital glands of small size overlie the occipital origin of the trapezius muscle; when present they receive the vessels from the posterior region of the scalp, and dis- charge themselves into the superficial cervical glands. The mastoid glands, one or two in number and of small size, lie behind the ear above the line of insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. They receive some of the vessels from the lateral and posterior region of the scalp and those from the back of the pinna. According to Sappey there are a number of mastoid glands on the deep surface of the sterno- mastoid close to the insertion, receiving there the efferent ducts of the more superficially placed glands, and some of the vessels from the scalp. The mastoid glands are generally regarded as sending their efferent ducts to the superficial cervical glands, and the glands of Sappey are probably connected with the deep cervical glands. The parotid lymphatic glands, ten to twelve in number (Sappey), are placed under the fascia which covers the parotid gland, some of them being imbedded in the glandular tissue. They receive vessels from the parotid gland, and from the anterior and lateral regions of the scalp, the lateral parts of the face, and the front of the pinna of the ear. Their efferent ducts pass, partly, to the submaxillary and, partly, to the super- ficial cervical glands. The submaxillary lymphatic glands, ten to twelve in number, occupy the digastric triangle; one or two of the most anterior of them receive the name of suprahyoid glands. The vessels which reach them come from the anterior part of the face, the floor of the mouth, the anterior part of the tongue, the submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands, and from the more anteriorly placed of the parotid lymphatic glands. Their efferent ducts pass partly to the superficial cervical glands and partly to the superior deep cervical glands. The superficial cervical glands lie in the superficial fascia of the neck, the majority forming a chain at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. They receive all the superficial vessels of the neck, and the efferent ducts of the occipital glands, some of those of the parotid and submaxillary groups, and probably some of those of the mastoid glands. They discharge themselves into the inferior deep cervical glands. The internal maxillary glands, five or six in number, are placed in the zygomatic fossa. They receive vessels from the temporal and zygomatic regions, the orbit, the roof of the mouth, the soft palate, the nasal cavity, and the upper part of the pharynx, and their efferent ducts