440 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. must be defined, and with this object the limb is usually uot supported from behind, as the pressure is apt to push forward the triceps muscle, which may confuse the operator. The median nevve here lies in front of the vessel, and is to be drawn outwards, and to aid this procedure the limb should be temporarily flexed ; the needle is passed from the side on which the nerve lies, care being taken to avoid the venae comites. "When the brachial artery is tied, the circulation is maintained chiefly through the anastomotic connections between the branches which ramify in the muscles and in the fascia. The Ulnar Artery. The ulnar artery (Figs. 331-3.35) is the larger of the two vessels into which the brachial divides. It is directed downwards through the forearm, at first with a slight arch inwards, and afterwards almost vertically, then crosses in front of the anterior annular ligament, by the outer side of the pisiform bone and the inner side of the unciform process, to end in the superficial palmar arch. It is at first deeply placed, and passes behind the superficial muscles from the internal epicondyle : further down it is comparatively superficial, being only overla^^ped by the edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris: at the lower end of the forearm it is uncovered by the muscle, lying by the outer edge of its tendon under the deep fascia : at the wrist it is crossed by some fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. It rests behind at first upon the tendon of the brachialis anticus, afterwards upon the flexor digitorum profundus, and finally upon the anterior annular ligament. Two venae comites accompany it. The median nerve crosses it superficially close to its origin, the deep head of the pronator teres intervening. The ulnar nerve lies by its inner side in the lower half of the forearm and at the wrist. Of the branches given oft' in the forearm the most important is the interosseous artery; in the upper part two recurrent lirauches are detached, and in the lower part two carpal branches are given oft^ in addition there are numerous muscular branches. At the lower border of the anterior annular ligament the ulnar detaches a deep branch which completes the deep palmar arch of the hand. (1) The recurrent branches. The anterior recurrent artcrii. a small vessel, passes upwards under cover of the pronator teres to anastomose with the anastomotic branch of the brachial The j'Ostcrior recurrent arterii, a little larger than the anterior, arises along with it. or immediately below it, and passes upwards between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris to anastomose with the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. (2) The interosseous artery, a short stem of considerable thickness, arises from the ulnar about an inch from its commencement, and passes backwards and downwards to the upper margin of the interosseous mem- brane, where it divides into anterior and posterior branches. The