.THE BRAIN. 608 edge of the posterior velum is the upper margin of a gap in the roof of the cerebro-spinal cylinder, and the remaining boundary of the gap passes round by the groove of the floccular peduncle and the free edge of the ligula on each side. Over the gap the pia mater is spread, sending in a fringe of choroid plexus which follows the course of its boundaries, com- pleting a ring bent in so as to give it the shape of a cross or of the letter T, the lateral parts extending outwards to the flocculi, the lower parts lying internal to the ligulae, and the upper part being sometimes carried forwards in the middle line on the nodule, but sometimes running straight across. In the undisturbed condition it wreathes round the pendent uvula, which has its own covering of pia mater, like the other folia of the cerebellum. The fourth ventricle cannot be opened by separation of the medulla ob- longata from the cerebellum without injury to the pia mater. It is a mesial tear made in this way below the extremity of the choroid plexus, which is described by Luschka under the name of foramen of Magendie and is figured by the most recent writers and supposed by them to be natural. It can easily be demonstrated to be artificial, if the dissector be on his guard; but it is not easy to make certain if there is within the circuit of the choroid plexus a layer independent of the proper investment of the uvula and nodule. ^ lY. THE ROOT PART OF THE CEREBRUM. The isthmus cerebri is a somewhat irregularly shaped cylinder, rendered ventrally bilobate by the outward and upward direction of the two crura cerebri, which, issuing from the pons Varolii, form its greater bulk, while it is completed dorsally by two comparatively small bands, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, with the valve of Vieussens between them roofing the upper part of the fourth ventricle. Between the crus cerebri and the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, in the fore part of the distance from cerebellum to corpora quadrigemina, there is an elevation on each side caused by the fillet (its lateral division) passing up to the corpora quadrigemina. The corpora quadrigemina is the name given to a body about half an inch long, and three-eighths broad, composed principally of grey matter, but having a white surface, covered with pia mater, looking backwards ^ The utility of the foramen of Magendie is supposed to be to allow passage of fluid from the brain to the spinal canal; but Reid and Sherrington have shown that the capacity of the spinal canal is diminished by bending, and it is hard to believe that in stooping it is an advantage to the brain to have fluid propelled into its ventricles. Besides, even if an opening exists, it is obvious that it must be effectually occluded by the choroid plexus when the parts are in situ. A supposed ventricular opening is figured at the floccular extremity of the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle and called foramen of Luschha. A similar opening has been alleged to exist at the ex- tremity of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Such openings may be produced by very trifling pressure.