190 THE SKELETON. long external lateral ligament, distinct from the capsule, a rounded cord arising from the external tuberosity of the femur, separated from the tendon and groove of the popliteus by the bursa of that tendon, and inserted below into the head of the fibula, surrounded by the insertion of the biceps muscle, and separated from it usually by another bursa. The sliort external lateral ligament is further back and not distinct from the capsule. It is attached below to the styloid process of the fibula, which also receives other fibres from the back of the capsule. The internal lateral ligament is a long, distinct and strong flat band descending from the internal tuberosity of the femur to be inserted into Fig. 183. Fig. 184. Fig. 183.—Right Knee from outer side, a, Patellar ligament; h, quadriceps extensor cruris ; c, external retinaculum of patella ; d, band of fascia lata pulled on by the tensor fasciae femoris ; e, outer head of gastrocnemius ; /, popliteus ; g, h, short and long bands of external lateral ligament; i, insertion of biceps ; k, I, m, insertions of sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus. Fig. 184.—Kight Knee from behind, a, Biceps and, below it, the posterior ligament of upper tibio-fibular articulation ; b, semimembranosus ; c, its upper band of insertion, called Winslow's ligament; d, its middle band of insertion ; e, its lower band of insertion over popliteus muscle ; tendon of popliteus ; g, part of the posterior ligament; A, internal semihiuar disc ; i, k, outer and i,nner heads of gastrocnemius; I, rectus femoi'is; ni, tendon of adductor magnus. ti rough surface on the shaft of the tibia, further back than the tendon of the semitendinosus muscle. It crosses and glides on the anterior division of the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle, which lies in the groove of the internal tuberosity of the tibia. The posterior ligament is the strong back part of the fibrous capsule already mentioned, and covers the condyles of the femur. Between the condyles it presents a strong oblique band, long known as the ligament of Winslow, taking an upward and outward direction, in great part continuous with the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle, and con- -stituting its upper insertion.