EMBRYOLOGY. 103 growth, and becomes in the human subject, and most other mammals, the seat of a great thickening destined to be removed with the foetal mem- branes in parturition, and therefore named decidua. The part lining the cavity of the uterus is called decidua vera. But the ovum becomes em- bedded by the part immediately surrounding it rising up and forming a continuous covering, the decidua reflexa, which separates it from the free surface of the decidua vera, while the part to which the ovum is originally adherent is that to which the placenta is afterwards attached and is distinguished as decidua serotina. The decidua consists of all but the deepest part of the uterine mucous membrane hypertrophied and altered, involving the tubular glands and presenting a structure containing blood- vessels and largely composed of cells of epithelial character. The villi of the chorion were supposed to pass into the mouths of the glands, but were shown by Turner to hollow for themselves new depressions between A B C Fig. 110.—Diagrams of Structures outside the Embryo. The outer circle represents the chorion. A, The amniotic sac, not yet complete, is continuous with the false amnion which lines the chorion; the yelk sac is large, and the allantois only a small vesicle; B, amnion complete, aUantois spreading- in contact with chorion ; 6', amniotic sac enlarged, the yelk sac persisting as a relatively small umbilical vesicle, and the placenta formed from the outer layer of the aUantois with the chorion. them. The columnar ciliated epithelium gives place to flattened cells, and the growth of the decidua goes on till the fifth month. The decidua vera exhibits two layers: one, a compact layer nearer the surface, in which the interglandular elements especially have increased, while the necks of the glands take a straight course between; and the other, a spongij layer with less interglandular substance, in which the deeper parts of the glands are swollen out and contorted so as to give a lacunar structure. The decidua reflexa, being formed by folding, has compact substance with orifices of glands directed to both its surfaces, and spongy substance in the middle. The decidua serotina has likewise compact and spongy substance, and it is from the compact substance that the placenta is formed, while the spongy substance is the site of the separation of the placenta in parturition. The placenta consists of two parts, the maternal and the foetal, which are inseparably interlocked. But it is interesting to note that in ruminants they remain distinct, the uterus presenting a number of permanent or button-like elevations, cotijledons, over which the chorion develops masses