448 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. costal vessels. They are usually five in number on each side. The first passes outwards upon the body of the last dorsal vertebra, the others, in succession, upon the bodies of the first four lumbar vertebrae. The first and second pass behind the crura of the diaphragm, and those of the right side cross behind the vena cava. They pass behind the sympathetic nerve trunk and the psoas muscle, and the first artery, which accompanies the last dorsal nerve, usually crosses in front of the quad- ratus lumborum, while the others as a rule pass behind that muscle. In the abdominal wall they course at first between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles, and finally enter the sheath of the rectus. They give off dorsal, lateral, and terminal branches which are similar in their distribution to the corresponding ofi'sets of the intercostal arteries. They form anastomotic connections with one another, with the lower intercostal arteries, the circumflex iliac, middle sacral, and ilio-lumbar arteries, and by their terminal branches with the superior and deep epigastric arteries. The middle sacral artery arises from the back of the aorta about a fourth of an inch above its bifurcation, and is continued downwards in front of the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum to the coccygeal gland, in which, much reduced in size, it terminates. It gives ofi" on each side— (1) a lowest lumhar artery, which is sometimes of considerable size, and runs outwards upon the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra; (2) lateral branches, which ramify upon the front of the sacrum. In front it detaches some anterior branches, which enter the mesorectum. The middle sacral artery represents the sacral portion of the aorta of the lower animals. Visceral Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. The coeliac axis (Fig. 338), a very short trunk, springs from the front of the aorta, immediately above the pancreas. It is about a third of an inch in length, and divides at its extremity into the hepatic, gastric, and splenic arteries. The solar plexus surrounds it at its origin, and the semilunar ganglia are placed by its sides. (a) The hepatic artery passes at first forwards and to the right, along the upper border of the pancreas as far as the upper margin of the first part of the duodenum. It then turns upwards in front of the foramen of Winslow, between the layers of the small omentum, in company with the common bile duct, which lies by its right side, and the portal vein which lies behind it. Close to the liver it divides into right and left terminal branches. On its way it gives off—(1) two or three small pancreatic branches; (2) as it is entering the small omentum, the pyloric artery which descends to the neighbourhood of the pylorus, and runs from right to left along the small curvature of the stomach, inosculating with the gastric artery; (3) immediately above the pyloric, the gastro-duodenal artery which descends behind the first part of the duodenum and divides into two branches; one of these, the right gastro-epiploic, courses along the greater curvature