515 THE BRACHIAL PLEXUS. mimicating branch. The cervical nerves emerge between the intertransverse muscles and pass outwards in the plane between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius; the portion of the first dorsal which joins the plexus ascends over the inner border and upper surface of the first rib. A little beyond the outer margin of the anterior scalene muscle the fifth and sixth nerves unite with one another to form an upper or first cord; the seventh nerve forms b}^ itself a middle or second cord; the eighth cervical and first dorsal join with one another on the deep surface of the anterior scalene muscle to form a lower or third cord. The three primary cords, thus formed, pass outwards and downwards towards the apex of the axilla in company with the third part of the subclavian artery, the lower cord being placed behind the upper margin of the vessel, and the other two in close proximity. As the nerve-cords are passing from the neck into the axilla, a re- arrangement of their fibres takes place. Each of the three primary cords divides into an anterior and posterior branch, and these branches unite with one another in such a way as to give rise to three new or secondary cords, which are named respectively the outer, inner, and posterior cord of the brachial plexus. The outer cord is formed by the anterior branches of the first and second primary cords. The inner cord is formed by the anterior branch of the third cord. The posterior cord is formed by the posterior branches of all of the three primary cords. Variations, for the most part of little consequence, occur in the formation of the secondary cords, the most usual being the contribution of a portion of the anterior division of the second primary cord to the formation of the inner cord. The nerve-cords enter the axilla, and descend through its first part by the outer side of the axillary artery, but a little farther down a change in the relative positions of the structures takes place. The inner cord sweeping behind the artery gains its inner side, the posterior cord reaches the posterior surface of the artery, while the outer cord, approaching the vessel more closely, comes into contact with its outer side. In these positions the three cords descend for a little distance; but while still high in the axilla they break up into their terminal divisions. Some of the branches of the plexus take origin in the neck, most of them arise below the clavicle. Branches of the Brachial Plexus in the Neck. As the nerves emerge from the intervertebral foramina, they detach smcdl nmscular hrcmches for the supply of the intertransverse, scalene, and longus colli muscles. The fifth cervical nerve is connected by a commani- cating branch with the phrenic nerve. The nerve to the rhomboids, a long slender cord, takes origin from the back of the fifth cervical nerve; it pierces the middle scalene muscle and