672 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. internal ear pressed upon. The lower edge of the base is distinguished from the upper by a slight concavity. Two arched crura spring from the base, the hindermost somewhat more curved than the other, and then join to form a short neck supporting a disc-like head which articulates synovially with the incus. There are two distinct muscles in connection with the ossicles. The more important is the tensor tynipani. It has a muscular belly fully half an inch long, lying beneath the adjacent margins of the sphenoid and pars petrosa, and resting on the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, from which it principally arises. Its tendon enters the tympanum above the cochleariform process, and is held by that shelf of bone until opposite Fig. 507.—Diagram of the Right Ear. a, Osseous part of the canal of the external ear; h, membrana tympani with the upper part removed ; c, malleus ; d, incus ; e, stapes with its base filling up the fenestra ovalis (the fenestra rotunda is seen a little lower) ; /, Eustachian tube ; g, tensor tympani muscle ; h, stapedius muscle ; i, i, the facial nerve divided ; k, mastoid cells ; I, m, vestibular and cochlear divisions of the auditory nerve ; 71, vestibule ; o, cochlea. the malleus, when it turns abruptly outwards over the end of the bony shelf, and crosses the tympanic cavity to be inserted into the handle of the malleus near its root. It thus pulls the handle inwards, and makes tense the membrana tympani; but it ought to be noticed that its insertion so high np on the handle, while it diminishes its leverage to rotate, gives it an inward pull on the whole bar round which rotation takes place, extending from the tip of the posterior process of the incus to that of the processus gracilis. The other muscle, the stapedius, lies in the space already indicated within the pars mastoidea, and, passing upwards, ends in a tendon, which emerges at the foramen of the pyramid and passes forwards to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. It is calculated, by contracting when the action of the tensor tympani is extreme, to relieve pressure on