MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. 389 downwards, and inwards, embracing the neck and base of the bhidder, and in the female the vagina, and meet the corresponding fibres from the opposite side in the middle line in front of the anus, and are connected there with the deeper fibres of the superficial sphincter; in the male the anterior fibres of the muscles embrace the sides of the prostate and meet below the gland. The fibres next in origin pass to the rectum and blend with its wnll, which they enter between the deep and superficial sphincters. The posterior fibres, forming the greater part of the muscle, pass over the sides of the rectum, and are inserted into a median raphe prolonged backwards to the point of the coccyx, A few of the most posterior fibres are attached to the sides of the coccyx. Corpus spongiosum A, Inferior ramus of pubis B, Tuberosity of ischium c, Anus E, Corpus cavernosum 1', Anterior fibres of the bulbo- cavernosus 4, Anterior layer of triangular liga- ment 6, Coccygeus 10, Ano-bulbar raphe 11, Ano-coccygeal raphe 12, Levator ani JBulbo- \ cavernosus Erector penis ( iSuiJerficial \ transverse i])erficial >liliini tfr of anus Great sacro-sciatic ligament | Coccyx Gluteus maximus Adipose tissue of ischio-rectal fossa Fig. 302.—Superficial Perineal Muscles of the Male. (L. Testut.) The coccygeus, triangular in outline, is continuous with the posterior edge of the levator ani. Narrow at the origin it springs from the spine of the ischium. Broad at its insertion it is attached chiefly to the side of the coccyx and partly also to the side of the sacrum. The sphincter ani externus, or superficial sphincter muscle, three-quarters of an inch to an inch in depth, surrounds the lower part of the rectum and encircles the anal aperture. Posteriorly the fibres are continued backwards along the ano-coccygeal raphe to the point of the coccyx; anteriorly they pass forwards to the central point of the perineum, where they are con- nected with the bulbo-cavernosus or sphincter vaginae muscle, according