396 THE MUSCLES. muscle covered by the anal fascia. The apex is above at the white line. In front, the space, much narrowed, extends forwards almost to the symphysis on the upper or posterior surface of the triangular ligament. Surgical anatomy of the pelvic fascia. The relations of the fascia to the viscera are of considerable surgical importance. Eupture of the male urethra, with subsequent extravasation of urine, takes place most fre- quently in front of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament, and the attachment of Colles' fascia to the posterior edge of the triangular liga- ment and to the rami prevents the extravasated fluid from reaching the posterior part of the perineal sp&ce or the thighs; but, on the other hand, directs it forwards to the abdominal wall, where it ascends under Scarpa's fascia. Less common is the rupture of the urethra between the layers of the triangular ligament, and when it happens the fascia for a con- siderable time resists the passage of the extravasated fluid. The recto- vesical fascia, forming the anterior and lateral true ligaments of the bladder, reaches that organ at the upper margin of the base, consequently the whole base of the bladder, with the vesiculae seminales and the prostate gland, is excluded from the pelvic cavity and projects into the perineum. The prostate, however, receives an exceedingly strong sheath from the downward continuation of the fascia. Between the base of the bladder and the prostate on the one hand, and the anterior wall of the lower part of the rectum on the other, a comparatively thin septum of fascia intervenes. The base of the bladder immediately above the prostate may be punctured from the rectum without opening the pelvic cavity. Prostatic abscesses open usually into the urethra, but extravasation of urine or pus has in rare cases taken place into the cavity round about the base of the bladder, and in such cases the extravasated fluid may pass downwards upon the rectum. The portion of the fascia which passes to the side of the rectum is weaker than that which is attached to the bladder; it reaches the side of the bowel about three inches from the lower end. A portion of the fascia, with the levator ani on its deep surface, is prolonged downwards on the lower part of the bowel, strength- ening its wall. The rectal opening of a fistula in ano is rarely found higher up than an inch from the margin of the anus, and in the majority of cases is placed even lower than that. DEVELOPMENT AND MORPHOLOGY OF THE VOLUNTARY MUSCLES. The voluntary muscles of the trunk are derived from the muscle plates formed from the outer regions of the mesoblastic somites. Some of the muscles of the head are derived from the lateral mesoblast, others from dorsally placed masses of mesoblast which correspond to the somites of the trunk. The muscles of the limbs appear in the higher forms to arise