THE UEINAEY OEGANS. 760 it impresses the under surface of the liver, and lower down is crossed by the duodenum and colon which are between it and the peritoneum. The left kidney is to a greater extent in contact with peritoneum, but is crossed by the descending colon. The kidney weighs from four to six ounces, and may be as much as four inches long, two and a half broad, and one and a half thick. The surface is dark, smooth and even, sometimes with two or three curved indentations, the remaining traces of former lobulation. On its inner side, however, it presents a deep and limited depression, the hilus, in which is placed pos- teriorly the dilated commence- ment of the ureter turning downwards, and in front of it the renal artery, with the renal vein foremost of all, both artery and vein being Hi2;her than the ureter. As a general rule the kidney is flatter behind than in front, and the part below the hilus narrower and more elongated than the part above. Varieties. A kidney may receive one or more additional renal arteries entering it above or below the hilus. A kidney may be found in a position much lower than usual, even within the pelvis, and also at the other side of the middle line from its proper position, and receive its arterial supply from the nearest part of the aorta or one of its divisions. A number of instances of absence of one kidney are on record, and several cases of absence of both kidneys have been recorded in infants at birth. Horseshoe kidney is the name given to union of the two kidneys by their lower ends : it may be unsymmetrical. Structure. The kidney is surrounded by a firm fibrous capside, toler- ably adherent, but easily separated in healthy specimens, and continuous with the tough connective tissue surrounding the structures which enter and Fig. 594.—Female Urinary Apparatus. 1, Left kidney ; 2, right kidney in section; 3, Malpighian pyramid; 4, cortex; 5, columnae Bertini ; 6, layer calyx ; 7, pelvis ; 8, ureter ; 9, bladder, surmounted by urachus; 10, urethra. (Luschka.)