THE CONNECTIVE TISSUES. 17 often finely undulated, which are either parallel to one another or in two or three sets regularly crossing one another. Two kinds are recognized, namely, aponeurosis of protection, and aponeurosis of insertion. The same protective sheet may be at one part regular and lustrous and at another felted and dull, which leads to the words aponeurosis and fascia being sometimes used indifferently with reference to one structure. Thus, we speak of the aponeurosis of the lower limb or the fascia lata. Aponeurosis of insertion differs in being continuous with muscular fibres, and while in structure identical with aponeurosis of protection, is on the other hand a membranous tendon in general appearance. Ligament and Tendon are the two strongest varieties of white fibrous tissue, and agree in having the bundles of white fibres running in one ahcdefghik Fig. 13.—Tendon : a, b, c, from boiled flexor tendon of sheep's trotter, showing quadrate scales, a, with the edges slightly folded, h, seen edgeways united by a thread, c, in full face with elongated nuclei in continuous thread, one behind each scale ; d, e, f, g, normal appearances from rat's tail, d and /, with the scales seen edgeways, e and g, in full face with their flat circular nuclei ; h, i, abnormal appearances from rat's tail, the whole chain being cylindrical and stained deeply with carmine ; k; human, from thick tendon of limb, large elongated nuclei deeply stained and united by a thread. direction. But ligaments in the human body have not as great lustre as tendon, and during life tendons may snap abruptly, as in rupture of the tendo Achillis, while ligaments tear in ragged fashion, so that sprains are often difficult to heal. Tendon has in addition certain structural peculiarities of its own. It is surrounded by a sheath of areolar tissue containing nerves, and in trans- verse section is seen to consist of separate bundles with finer septa between them. The separate bundles of white fibrous tissue exhibit a mass which may be easily made to show longitudinal fibrillation, but which is apparently structureless when its parts are not displaced. Each bundle has laid against it and partially surrounding it a linear series of delicate flat cells or stainable scales more or less distinctly quadrate in shape with circular nuclei. These are the quadrate cells of Banvier, and may be easily B