554 THE NERVES. forwards on the deep surface of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, crossing between the external and internal carotid arteries; it then turns over the lower border of the stylo-pharyngeus and passes forwards on its surface, and on the deep surface of the hyo-glossus, to the back of the tongue, where it divides into its terminal branches. On its way it supplies the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and detaches some pharyngeal branches and a tonsillar branch. Connecting branches. From the petrous ganglion three slender com- municating branches are given off; one of these passes to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, another joins the auricular branch of the vagus; the third passes to the ganglion of the root of the vagus. From the trunk of the nerve a little below the ganglion a communicating twig is given to the facial or to its stylo-hyoid branch. The tympanic branch or nerve of Jacobson springs from the petrous ganglion; it enters a minute canal which opens between the jugular foramen and carotid canal, and is conducted to the tympanic cavity, on the inner wall of which it ascends, grooving the surface of the promontory, and breaking up into a number of branches which form the tympanic plexus. The branches of the plexus ramify in the mucous membrane, passing forwards to the posterior portion of the Eustachian tube and backwards to the mastoid cells. From the plexus, a branch, the small superficial petrosal nerve, which may be regarded as the continuation of the nerve of Jacobson, passes forwards and, receiving a communicating branch from the geniculate ganglion of the facial, pierces the superior surface of the petrous bone, courses beneath the dura mater, external to the hiatus Fallopii, and passes through the petro-sphenoidal fissure to join the otic ganglion. Another branch, the small deep petrosal nerve, passes forwards from the plexus along a canal beneath the tensor tympani muscle to join the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and the great deep petrosal nerve, which passes to Meckel's ganglion. In addition, one or two small branches pierce the anterior tympanic wall and join the carotid plexus. Pharyngeal branches. These are given off a little below the ganglion; they are three or four in number. One or two of them, of small size, pass directly to the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx, piercing the superior constrictor. The largest branch descends a little to join the pharyngeal branch of the vagus, along with which and one or two branches from the superior cervical ganglion of the sj'mpathetic, it ramifies over the middle constrictor, forming the pharyngeal plexus. From the plexus branches proceed to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, and to the constrictor muscles, the palato-glossus muscle, and the palato- pharyngeus muscle. In addition the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles probably receive their supply through the pharyngeal plexus (see p. 546). One or two branches usually pass from the plexus to the superior laryngeal branch of the vagus, and a communicating twig joins the hypoglossal nerve.