195 THE JOINTS OF THE LEG AND FOOT. The ankle-joint is a hinge joint, with lateral ligaments, which also help to support the joints between the astragalus, calcaneum and scaphoid. The internal lateral ligament is a strong flat band, expanding as it ■descends from the extremity of the internal malleolus, to be inserted posteriorly into the inner side of the astragalus near the back, further forwards into both astragalus and sustentaculum tali, and in front of this into the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament and the inner side of the scaphoid bone.^ The external lateral ligament consists of three round bands, each at right angles to both the others. The posterior band extends from the pit on the inner side of the external malleolus inwards and slightly backwards to the posterior surface of the astragalus, and is lined above by the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint, and below by that of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint. The middle band passes directly down- wards from the extremity of the external malleolus to the outer side of the calcaneum, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the posterior astragalo-calcaneal joint alone. The anterior band extends from the front of the external malleolus forwards and inwards to the astragalus in front of its upper articular surface, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint alone. Anterior and posterior ligaments of the ankle-joint are described, but consist ■of mere thin fibrous expansions supporting the synovial membrane. The synovial membrane is prolonged up between the tibia and fibula, and is cushioned with fat in front and behind, as well as between the bones. The tarsal and tarso-metatarsal articulations form a series of closely ■connected joints with a number of synovial cavities. The posterior astragalo- ■calcaneal articulation is behind the interosseous ligament uniting these bones, and has a separate synovial membrane: the astragalo-calcaneo- scaphoid articulation has a second, and the calcaneo-cuboid articulation a third. Three other synovial cavities are bounded by tarsals and metatarscds, viz., one peculiar to the articulation between the internal cuneiform and first metatarsal bone, with a distinct fibrous capsule round it; another between the cuboid and fourth and fifth metatarsals, extending between the bases of those metatarsals; and a third which is common to the articulations of the cuneiforms one with another and with the scaphoid, cuboid and second and third metatarsal bones, and extending between the bases of the second, third and fourth metatarsals. Besides the more membranous dispositions of fibrous tissue over synovial sacs, the following important ligaments are found in connection with these ■articulations : The interosseous astragalo-ccdcaneal ligament is attached above to the deep ^ This ligament is often described as if only its posterior fibres were attached to the astragalus. But when the joint is cut open they can be seen inserted all along the inner side of the joint below the articular surface for the internal malleolus. The attachment to the sustentaculum tali is not very strong, and may even be absent.