377 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. uterus in the female. The opening is a narrow space left between the fibres attached to the crest of the pubis and those which are attached to the spine. The margins of the aperture are called the columns or pillars of the ring. Some of the fibres of the inner pillar decussate on the front of the symphysis, with corresponding fibres from the opposite side. The opening is triangular in shape, the base being on the crest of the pubis, and the apex half an inch distant, a little above and a little external to the spine. The pillars are bound to one another by a delicate sheet of transverse or intercolumnar fibres which is prolonged, under the name of the inter- columnar or sjjermatic fascia, as a covering to the structures which pass through the ring. The cord or round ligament, in passing through, lies upon the lower or outer pillar, in immediate proximity to the outer edge of the spine. Some fibres which pass inwards from Gimbernat's ligament External oblique Symphysis pubis _ I Inner pillar of left ring 3, Tendon of ex- ternal oblique 1, Poupart's liga- ment 4, Outer pillar of ring 7, Superficial abdominal ring Inner pillar of right ring Fig. 294.—The Superficial Abdominal Ring (diagrammatic). (L. Tcstut.) •cross the floor of the ring, passing Ijehind the inner pillar to reach the front of the sheath of the rectus, where they are associated with the fibres of the inner pillar of the opposite side. They are very variable in the extent of their development and are named the triangular fascia. The internal obliaue arises by fleshy fibres, which are directed inwards, the upper passing, in addition, obliquely upwards, the lowest having a slight direction downwards. They spring from the middle area of the anterior two-thirds of the iliac crest, and from the outer half of Pouparts ligament. At the upper and posterior border a few fibres take origin from the lumbar aponeurosis. The upper fibres are attached to the lower borders of the cartilages of the last four ribs, and lie at their insertion in the same plane as the internal intercostal muscles. Those next in order pass into a broad aponeurosis which begins about an inch from the