THE NERVES. 5.38 non-medullated. They descend through the foramma of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, receiving, as they pass through the bone, sheaths from the dura mater. They are grouped into an outer and an inner set, and in their distribution are confined to the upper or ethmxoidal region of the nasal fossa. The outer set ramifies on the surface of the upper and middle turbinate bones, the inner set is distributed upon the upper part of the septum. THE SECOND OR OPTIC NERVE. The optic nerve is, like the olfactory lobe, in reality a portion of the brain. It is continued from the optic commissure or chiasma, and terminates in the retina; from the chiasma two flattened white bands, the optic tracts, are continued backwards, one on each side, and pass round the crura to the region of the corpora quadrigemina and the posterior part of the optic thalamus. The optic chiasma lies immediately in front of the infundibulum, and between the anterior perforated spots, on the under surface of the floor of the third ventricle; inferiorly it rests on the olivary process of the sphenoid bone. It is formed of nerve fibres, the majority of which pass from the retinae. These fibres undergo a partial decussation in the chiasma. The posterior part of the chiasma is formed of very fine fibres, which are not continued into the optic nerves; they constitute the commissures of Gudden and Meynert. The optic nerves pass forwards on each side from the chiasma. Each traverses the optic foramen, lying internal to and above the ophthalmic artery, and is continued within the orbit to the eyeball, which it enters at a spot a little internal to and a little below the middle point of its posterior surface. The nerve is surrounded by a strong sheath from the dura mater, and its fibres are divided into separate bundles by fibrous septa. The central artery of the retina passes into it from below and is continued forwards in its substance. In the chiasma the nerve fibres which come from the outer or temporal side of each retina pass backwards to the tract of their own side without decussation. The fibres from the nasal or inner side of the retina cross in the chiasma to the opposite tract. Each tract therefore contains the temporal or outer fibres of its own side and the inner or nasal fibres of the opposite side. The optic nerve and retina of each side are developed as a vesicular outgrowth from the region of the fore brain. The outgrowth is formed of a hollow stalk and a terminal dilatation. By the approximation of the walls of the stalk to one another and their subsequent thickening the optic nerve is formed. Nerve fibres, growing from the retina, pass backwards along the stalk, which becomes solid. The fibres of opposite sides partially decussating, give rise to the chiasma, and, continued back- wards, form the greater part of the tracts. In many of the mammalia, and in all vertebrates below mammals, the decussation of the fibres is complete.