336 THE MdSCLES. each muscle. The muscles are ensheathed, however, only for about four- fifths of their length, for before reaching the tendons of insertion the external capsule splits into two portions. The posterior portion, continuous, with the layer on the surfaces of the muscles directed towards the optic nerve, is reflected backwards behind the eyeball, embraces the optic nerve^ and is continued backwards on it posteriorly as an outer sheath. The anterior portion sweeping off" the orbital surfaces of the muscles is con- tinued forwards to the margins of the orbit, where it is partly attached to the bone and partly continued into the tissue of the eyelids. This layer of fascia as it passes forwards forms sheaths for portions of the inferior and superior oblique muscles. Four specially strengthened bands- are described as connected with it, passing forwards to the bony margin of the orbit, one from each of the sheaths of the recti muscles. The external band is the strongest; it stretches from the sheath of the external Levator palpebrae superioris Superior oblique .. - ^, _ Fig. 272.—Orbital Muscles of the Right Side. The eyelids have been tvirned over to the inner side, and are viewed from their deep surface. rectus to the orbital process of the malar bone, where it is connected with the outer tarsal ligament. The band from the internal rectus is connected with the lachrymal crest. The superior and inferior bands are not so- well marked as the other two. The internal capsule, the capsule of Tenon, is a very delicate layer which covers the posterior part of the globe, and is continued back as an inner sheath to the optic nerve. It passes forwards on the globe nearly to the cornea, and in front is attached to the ocular conjunctiva. It likewise sends a delicate reflexion for a short distance upon each of the tendons inserted into the globe. Between the internal capsule and the sclerotic lies a narrow space, which is traversed by delicate trabe- culae of connective tissue, and by vessels and nerves; it is regarded as a lymph space, and it acts to a certain extent as a synovial socket, within which the eyeball glides. In extirpating the eye the surgeon,, in separating its attachments, seeks to avoid injuring the capsule. The