480 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. The left lower or smaller azygos vein takes origin in the abdomen in a manner similar to that of the great azygos. It passes through the left crus, and ascends upon the spine as far as the seventh or eighth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses behind the aorta and thoracic duct to fall into the great azygos vein. It receives some oesophageal branches, the first left lumbar, and three or four of the lower intercostal veins of its own side. The left upper azygos vein is formed by the junction of two or three of the left intercostal veins belonging to the middle of the series, and frequently communicates above with the left superior intercostal vein. It falls into the great azygos or, sometimes, into the left lower azygos vein, but is very variable, and is often absent altogether. The bronchial veins accompany the corresponding arteries; that of the right side terminates in the great azygos vein, that of the left falls into the left upper azygos, or the left superior intercostal vein. THE VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. The inferior vena cava (Figs. 336, 360) commences under cover of the right common iliac artery at the level of the upper margin of the body of the last lumbar vertebra; it ascends with a slight inclination forwards, pierces the diaphragm, entering at the same time the pericardial cavity, and immediately afterwards terminates, opposite the lower border of the eighth dorsal vertebra, in the right auricle of the heart. Before passing through the diaphragm it lies in a deep groove on the under surface of the liver, lower down it rests upon the right crus, still lower it lies by the right side of the aorta upon the vertebral column. On its deep surface the right lumbar, renal, suprarenal, and inferior phrenic arteries pass outwards; the solar plexus lies behind it; it is crossed superficially by the right spermatic artery, the mesentery, the duodenum and pancreas, and the portal vein. It is formed by the confluence of the two common iliac veins, and it receives as tributaries the lumbar, renal, inferior phrenic, and hepatic veins, and the right spermatic or ovarian, and right suprarenal. The lumbar veins accompany the lumbar arteries. The highest vein on each side usually falls into the azygos vein, the lower ones into the inferior cava, those of the left side crossing behind the aorta. On the deep surface of the psoas muscle, in front of the transverse processes, a vertically running vessel, the ascending lumbar vein, connects the successive trunks, and is continued above into the azygos vein; it communicates frequently with the renal vein, the common iliac, and the inferior cava. The renal veins (Fig. 360) fall into the inferior vena cava, and are placed in front of the renal arteries; that of the right side is a short trunk; that of the left, considerably longer, crosses in front of the aorta, and Teceives the left suprarenal and left spermatic veins, and occasionally the left inferior phrenic vein. Imperfect valves are found in the renal veins.