ARTICULATIONS OF THE AXIAL SKELETON. 127 l3ecome less frequent; while, in connection with the cartilage of the lowest sternal rib, most frequently there is no synovial cavity, and a single cavity becomes more frequent as we ascend from this. Interchondral synovial articulations occur variably between successive costal cartilages from the fifth to the ninth. On the deep surface the sternum ribs and cartilages are united by continuous periosteum and perichondrium, strong, but not otherwise remarkable; and on the superficial aspect of the sternum a ■decussating arrangement of strong fibres extends across the middle line and over the costal cartilages. Also between the costal cartilages, tendinous fibres continuous with the external intercostal muscles bind the cartilages together, and are stronger and shorter below, where they bind the asternal •cartilages. MOVEMENTS OF THE AXIAL SKELETON. The vertebral column allows mesial and lateral angular movement, rotation and circumduction, to different extents in different regions. Mesial flexion and extension are allowed most freely in the cervical region, and next to it in the lumbar. The neck cannot only be flung backwards till the edges of the inferior articular surfaces are caught on depressions, often well marked, on the laminae below (Bruce Young), but it can be bent forwards so as to throw the fronts of the bodies into a concave curve. The lumbar vertebrae can be thrown back considerably, but cannot be bent forwards further, as a rule, than is sufficient to bring the fronts of the bodies into a straight line by undoing the natural convexity forwards. Conversely, in the thorax the column can be straightened so as to undo the normal concavity forwards, but cannot be bent further back. Lateral flexion is practically allowed in all the three regions of the movable part -of the column, but while it is of a pure description in the lumbar region, and almost if not altogether so in the thoracic region, it is not so in the cervical region, because the obliquity of the cervical articular surfaces ■compels an upward gliding of one on another to be accompanied by a forward motion and vice versa. Lateral flexion in the cervical region is therefore always accompanied with a certain twisting movement. But, neither is pure rotation possible in the neck, seeing that the planes of contact of its articular surfaces do not form arcs of circles; the apparent rotation is rather a circumduction, produced by oblique twists and com- pensatory backward and forward movements. In the lumbar region rotation is completely prevented by the locking of the articular processes. In the thoracic region alone is pure rotation allowed, the axis of rotation corresponding nearly with the fronts of the bodies of the vertebrae. The atlanto-axial articulation, although it is distinctly a pivot-joint, and that by means of which the head is enabled to be turned from side to side on the top of the column, is not so constructed as to allow a per- fectly simple rotation round a vertical axis. It has been pointed out that the inferior articular surfaces of the atlas do not fit exactly to the