THE SKELETON. 230 The ascending plate becomes very thin as it ascends, and is surmounted' by two processes, the orbital in front and the sphenoidal behind, separated by the spheno-palatine notch. Its smooth internal surface is traversed by a projecting crest, higher in front than behind, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The outer surface, mostly rough for articu- lations, is divided longitudinally by a smooth portion, broadest above where it begins on the posterior part of the orbital process and the base of the sphenoidal process, and narrowing below to a deep groove sloping forwards which goes to form with the corresponding groove on the maxilla the posterior palatine canal, while the upper part is the inner wall of th& spheno-maxillary fossa. In front of this smooth part the outer surface- Fig. 213.—Right Palatal Bone. A, from outer side. £, from behind, a, Pterygo- palatine groove of sphenoidal process ; b, orbital siirface of orbital process ; c, deep wall of spheno-maxillary fossa, -with spheno-palatine notch above, and gi-oove for posterior palatine canal below ; d, crest articulating with inferior turbinated bone ; e, palate plate ; ^\ triangular surface of tuberositj' which completes the pterygoid fossa; g, articulates with internal pterygoid plate ; h, articulates with maxillary ; i, articulates with external pterj'goid plate ; articulates with maxillary. articulates with the maxilla, and also takes part in diminishing the entrance into the antrum; behind, it articulates below with the maxilla, and inclines backwards above to articulate with the internal pterygoid plate. The orbital process has two free surfaces—one, orbital, completing the orbital floor, the other, looking back into the spheno-maxillary fossa. It articulates in front with the maxilla, and internally with the ethmoid and orbital portion of the sphenoidal turbinated, and is hollowed in connection with middle ethmoidal cells. The sphenoidal process is a lamina directed upwards to the sphenoidal turbinated bone, and bending inwards and back- wards beloAv the curved origin of the internal pterygoid plate, grooved above to complete with the groove on that plate the pterygo-palatine canal, and articulating in front of it with the vomer. The spheno-palatine foramen A B h b