THE PROSTATE, PENIS AND URETHRA. 7cS3 covering of circularly arranged unstriped muscular fibres, in contact with tlie striped fibres of the constrictor urethra, and is said to have loniritudinal fibres embraced by them; the circular fibres are continued in the bulb, but get fewer further forwards, and ultimately disappear. Mucous glands, lined with columnar or cubical epithelium and with ducts directed forwards, are found over the whole urethra, as far as the squamously lined part at the outlet. Some are simple, while others are racemose and have longer ducts, and are situated in the submucous tissue, and are known as glands of Littre. Lastly, Cowpefs glands are a pair of firm racemose glands about the size of small peas, with unstriped muscular fibres around them, situated on the surface of the constrictor urethrae and under cover of the deep transversus perinaei muscle. Their ducts, an inch or more in length, are directed forwards beneath the mucous membrane, and terminate separately in the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. FEMALE ORGANS. I. The Ovaries, Uterus and Fallopian Tubes. The ovaries are a pair of firm, white fibrous bodies, which in the young adult measure about an inch and a quarter in length, three-quarters of an inch in breadth, and three-eighths in thickness, and have a smooth Ovary _ Fimbriae ^ Orifice of tube Dilated end of tube Round ligament of uterus ^ / . Anterior lip of os \ agmal wall Fig. 611.—Uterus, Ovaries and Fallopian Tdbes, from the front. surface covered with peritoneum. But in consequence of the ova escaping at the monthly molimen, by laceration of the peritoneal surface, cicatrices gradually accumulate; and the ovaries in elderly subjects are not only shrivelled but marked with indentations and linear depressions. The}- are attached each by the anterior border to a fold of peritoneum, hroad or suspensory ligament of the ovary, projecting slightly backwards from the broad ligament of the uterus, below and behind the Fallopian tube; and within this fold a fibrous band, the round ligament of the ovary {ovarian ligament of