160 THE SKELETON. always an interosseous ligament between the os magnum and unciform, and another between trapezium and trapezoid, but that between os magnum and trapezoid is inconstant. The common carpal ligaments uniting the two ranges are dorsal, palmar and lateral parts of a fibrous capsule. The dorsal ligament has its fibres principally directed with an obliquity downwards and outwards, the reverse of that of the dorsal ligament of the joint above, while the palmar ligament has its fibres pennate, in continuity with that of the joint above. The external lateral fibres unite the scaphoid with the trapezium, the internal lateral fibres unite the cuneiform with the unciform. The ligaments uniting the lower carpals and four inner metacarpals com- prise dorsal and palmar bands, the dorsal much more distinctly separate than the palmar. A constant ligament extends directly outwards from the bases of the second and third metacarpals to the inner and lower angle of the trapezium (Bruce Young). The bases of the four inner metacarpals are firmly united by dorsal, pcdmar and interosseous ligaments, the latter not only projecting into the synovial cavity, but extending below it. The anterior a7inular ligament is a very strong structure, stretching from the tubercle of the scaphoid and front of the trapezium to the pisiform bone and the process of the unciform bone. Its attachment to the trapezium is principally connected with the ridge, but it also takes origin from near the inner border, so as to convert the groove of the trapezium into a tubular passage for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. It com- pletes the concavity of the carpus into a ring. It is called anterior annular ligament, in contradistinction to the posterior, which is described with the aponeurosis of the limb. The metacarpo-phalangeal articulations are kept together by lateral ligaments. Posteriorly they are devoid of ligaments, their synovial mem- brane being protected by extensor tendon; and anteriorly, though they present a thick fibrous wall, it is not attached to the meta- carpal bone. The lateral ligaments spring from the tubercles of the metacarpal bones and the depressions in front of them. Their pos- terior fibres pass to the sides of the phal- anges ; while those further forwards are attached more to the palmar aspect, and the foremost fibres of each turn forwards over the front of the metacarpal head to be continuous with corresponding fibres from the other side, forming a dense wall ad- herent to the base of the phalanx and with an edge which fits against the metacarpal bone in flexion. Fig. 160. — Metacarpo - Phalangeal Articulation. A, Shows by means of two dotted lines, extending from the place of attachment of the lateral liga- ment, that the ligament has a greater distance to pass over in flexion than in extension. B, Shows the slackened con- dition of the lateral ligament in exten- sion, and the fibres arching over the front of the head of the metacarpal bone.