GENERAL ANATOMY. 48 to the perineurium are lymphatic channels lined with endothelium. The delicate connective tissue within the perineurium is sometimes called endoneuriiim, and the denser sheath of white and elastic fibres binding the funiculi into larger bundles is termed epineurnmi. Nerve-fibres are distinct threads, originating at one extremity from a nerve-corpuscle, and take their course without junction with any other, and without branching save within nerve-centres or at their peripheral extremities; but bifurcations abound within the cerebro-spinal axis, and when nerve-fibres reach the immediate neighbourhood of their peripheral termination they habitually branch. In the best developed nerve-fibres three distinct structures are found—the axis-cylinder, the primitive sheath, and the medullary substance between, from the presence of which they are called medtdlated fibres. The axis-cylinder may be termed the essential part. If a perfectly fresh portion of a spinal nerve be examined, the majority of its fibres will be seen as clear structures of a breadth of as much as xtoo^^ inch, refracting the light, and bounded on each side by a double con- tour ; but if by manipul- ation they be torn, the semi-fluid medullary sub- stance will issue from them and bring into view both the sheath which contains it and a solid thread in the middle. This last is the axis-cylinder, and is of firm albuminoid substance deeply stainable with car- mine. An appearance of fine longitudinal fibrillation may be detected in it. The primitive sheath^ sheath of Schwann, or neurileimia, is a delicate membrane which, like the sarcolemma of muscle, resists the action of acetic acid. It presents at inter- vals elongated nuclei which rather dip into the subjacent medullary substance than project on the surface; but when the medullary substance disappears, the axis- cylinder may continue invested with primitive sheath, or at least the nuclei may be continued on the axis-cylinder and project from it, or Fig. 44.—Nerve-Fibres. A, MeduUated fibres of different sizes, fresh, from frog's leg; B, fibre from frog, treated with absolute alcohol; C, two meduUated fibres, human—in the lower part of one, the axis-cylinder and primitive sheath are shown by removal of the medullary substance, and in the other, the axis-cylinder projects free from the primitive sheath and medullary substance ; D, non-medullated(Remak's) nerve-fibres from sympathetic chain, human. (Toldt.)