SPINAL NERVES. 507 tegument from the crown of the head to the gluteal region; the three branches of the fifth cranial, though reaching the face by different routes^ together supply the whole face, and the head in front of the ear; and the cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral in the upper limb, and those of the small sciatic, the great sciatic, and the anterior crural in the lower limb, all follow the same law. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one pairs of spinal nerves, as follows : eight cervical, twelve thoracic, five lumbar, five sacral, and one coccygeal. The first nerve^ the suboccipital, passes outwards between the occipital bone and the atlas; the next seven appear in order below the successive cervical vertebrae. The remaining nerves of the series are named from the vertebrae below which they escape. The coccygeal nerve issues from the lower extremity of the spinal canal, and passes outwards beneath the first piece of the coccyx. Each nerve springs from the sides of the cord by two roots, an anterior and a posterior. The posterior roots are formed of afferent fibres; each of them presents a ganglion, involving most of its fibres, situated close to the place of junction with the anterior root. The anterior roots contain efferent fibres, and have no ganglia. With the exception of the case of the sub- occipital nerve, in which the motor root is the larger, the posterior roots exceed the anterior in size, the discrepancy being most marked in the cervical region, and least apparent among the dorsal nerves. The roots, invested by the pia mater, traverse the subarachnoid and arachnoid spaces, and pass towards the intervertebral foramina, on a level with which they separately pierce the sac of the dura mater. In each foramen, surrounded by a common sheath, the anterior and posterior roots join with one an- other to form the nerve; at the outer extremity of the foramen the nerve breaks up into anterior and posterior primary divisions, each consisting of mixed fibres from the two roots. The ganglia are placed in the intervertebral foramina, and lie outside the common sac, but within the tubular prolonga- tions of the dura mater. The arachnoid membrane is reflected upon the roots, but the investments from the dura mater and pia mater become continuous with the sheaths of the nerves. The last sacral and coccygeal nerves are formed, by the junction of the roots, within the common sac of the dura mater at some distance from their places of exit. In the case of the other sacral nerves, the primary divisions of which escape through the anterior and posterior sacral foramina, the junction of the roots, although taking place outside the sac of the dura mater, is effected within the spinal canal. The first and second nerves are formed opposite the posterior arches of the atlas and axis respectively. Each posterior root springs from the postero-lateral groove of the cord by some six or eight fasciculi, which form a linear series. The ganglion is usually bilobate at its inner extremity, and the bundles of the root are