384 THE MUSCLES. is somewhat larger than is necessarj^ to contain them, and a space, sufficient in size to admit the little finger, is left between the vein, which is the inner of the two vessels, and the edge of Gimbernat's ligament. The sheath rapidly narrows, and the space is continued downwards for but a short distance—about half an inch—into the thigh, and terminates in a pointed blind extremity. The space is the crural canal; it occasionalh^ gives passage to a protrusion of abdominal viscera known as a "femoral hernia." In the normal state it is occupied by one or two small lymphatic glands and some subperitoneal tissue which constitute the septum crurale. The abdominal opening of the canal is bounded internally and anteriorly by Gimbernat's ligament, to Avhich the fascia transversalis is attached, externally by the vein, a delicate septum intervening, and posteriorly b}" the pectineus muscle clothed by the prolongation of the fascia iliaca into the deep portion of the fascia lata of the thigh. Immediately above the anterior margin the spermatic cord or round ligament passes obliquely downwards. In very rare cases an aberrant obturator artery from the deep epigastric passes downwards by the edge of Gimbernat's ligament in such close proximity to the inner margin of the opening that it would be in danger of being cut in the operation for relief of a strangulated hernia. More frequently, however, when the aberrant vessel is present it passes downwards by the outer edge of the aperture of the crural canal. The crural canal terminates opposite the upper part of the saphenous opening, and a hernial protrusion which has passed through the canal receives, therefore, no covering from the fascia lata. The coverings of a femoral hernia are—the peritoneum of the abdominal wall forming the sac, the remains of the septum crurale, the anterior wall of the sheath of the vessels, and the cribriform fascia which covers the saphenous opening. The name, deep crural arch, is sometimes given to the arch formed by Gimbernat's ligament and the fascia transversalis over the crural canal and the vessels as they pass between the abdomen and the thigh. The deep ahdomincd ring—the inguincd caned—inguinal hernia. At the lower part of the anterior abdominal wall, about half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament, the fascia transversalis is pierced by the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, and the opening thus formed in the fascia is called the internal or deep ahdomincd ring. From its margins a delicate continuation, the infundibuUform fascia, is prolonged onwards as an investment of the structures which pass through the ring. The upper and outer margins of the ring are somewhat weak, but the inner and lower margins are considerably strengthened by an intimate connection of the fascia trans- versalis with the outer edge of the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles. Close to the inner margin of the ring the deep epigastric artery passes upwards and inwards behind the inguinal canal in a sheath derived from the fascia transversalis. The inguinal canal, about one and a half inches in length, is the