456 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. and an inferior. Tlie superior descends to the first sacral foramen, through which it passes backwards to supply the muscles and integument posteriorly. The inferior descends by the inner edges of the lower anterior foramina as far as the coccyx. It famishes branches which pass back- wards through the foramina, supplying the walls of the spinal canal and emerging behind, where they distribute twigs to the muscles and to the integument, and anastomose with branches of the gluteal and sciatic arteries. The lateral sacral arteries also furnish some small branches to the rectum and others which anastomose on the front of the sacrum with offsets of the middle sacral artery. The External Iliac Artery. The external iliac artery (Fig. 341) continues the line of the common iliac, and stretches from the level of the lumbo-sacral articulation to the lower border of Poupart's ligament, where it is continued into the femoral artery. It is from three and a half to four inches in length, and lies behind the lower two-thirds of a line drawn upon the surface from a point about half an inch below and to the left of the umbilicus to Poupart's ligament midway between the anterior superior spine and the pubic symphysis. It rests behind upon the iliac fascia and is placed above the margin of the true pelvis, at first to the inner side of and afterwards in front of the psoas muscle. Its companion vein lies at first behind and afterwards by its inner side. The ureter frequently crosses in front of it at its upper end; the spermatic vessels and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve descend in front of it, crossing it obliquely from without inwards. At the lower end the deep circumflex vein passes inwards in front of it. It is surrounded by numerous lymphatic glands, is covered by the peritoneum, and is crossed on the right side by the lower part of the ileum, on the left by the sigmoid flexure. A very delicate sheath of subperitoneal areolar tissue envelops the artery and vein as they descend upon the iliac fascia. Its branches are the deep epigastric and the deep circumflex iliac: in addition a number of very minute twigs are supplied to the surrounding lymphatic glands. The deep epigastric artery (Fig 345) takes origin about a fourth of an inch above Poupart's ligament, and, coursing in the fascia transversalis, passes at first inwards and then turns upwards, by the inner margin of the deep abdominal ring, towards the sheath of the rectus muscle, which it enters some little distance below the semilunar fold of Douglas. In its subsequent course it passes up behind the muscle and finally enters its substance, a little above the umbilicus, to anastomose with the superior epigastric of the in- ternal mammary. Its branches are numerous but small. Pubic twigs descend behind the pubis and anastomose with branches of the obturator artery. The cremasteric, a slender branch, descends upon the cord or round ligament, anastomosing with branches of the spermatic or ovarian s^rtery. Numerous