DUCTLESS GLANDS. 756 size till birth, preserves its proportionate size for a year or even two (Meckel), then begins to dwindle, and usually ceases to exist even vestigially in the adult, save perhaps in the form of a deposit of deep-coloured adipose tissue. It lies in the upper part of the anterior mediastinum of the thorax, and at birth forms a mesial mass reaching higher than the sternum and down over the great vessels and heart so as to conceal the auricles. It is most voluminous inferiorly, and superiorly is produced upwards on each side of the trachea as far as the thyroid body. By dissection it is easy ! to show that it consists throughout of a right and a left portion quite j distinct one from the other, but closely in contact inferiorly, and not I symmetrical. It is embedded in a sheath of connective tissue, and each Fig. 590.—Windpipe and Thoracic Viscera of Foetus OF Six Months, a, Thyroid ; h, h, thymus; c, c, Fig. 591.—Section of Lobule of Thymus, from unexpaiided lungs ; c^, right ventricle of heart. foetus of 8 raonths, with bloodvessels injected. half can be dissected out into a number of lobules attached to a central cord or column, and consisting of smaller lobules. The lobules, surrounded by a dense vascular network sending into the interior bloodvessels whose capillaries fall short of the centre, contain a reticulum loaded with minute nucleated corpuscles. In the outer or cortical part, the corpuscles principally abound, while in the central or medullary part the reticulum is more evident; and it is this part which is continued into the central cord. In the medullary part a certain number of large corpuscles are found, some of them inclosed in concentric laminae {corpuscles of Hassall). The thyroid body contrasts with the thymus in being firmer, of more definite form and less separable into lobules, in being of a dark purplish colour, in having very definite bloodvessels, and in continuing throughout life. It is larger in the female than the healthy adult male, and diminishes in the proportion w^hich it bears to the whole body, from birth till adult age. It consists of tw^o lateral lobes united by a narrow isthmus. The