170 THE SKELETON. is smooth, while above it there is an uneven appearance where bursae intervene between tendinous bundles. Continuous with the diagonal line, there is a roughness in front of the base of the trochanter, indicating the insertion of the gluteus minimus. On the summit the tendon of the pyriformis muscle is inserted. Internal to the great trochanter is the trochanteric or digital fossa, bounded in front by the upper border of the neck, and below by the posterior border. Into this fossa is inserted the obturator externus muscle, and on the ridge in front of it is a flat impression where the obturator internus is inserted. The small trochanter is a spinelike projection inwards from the posterior and inner part of the top of the shaft, behind the lower border of the neck, and gives attachment to the ilio-psoas muscle. It is connected with the back of the great trochanter by means of a thick smooth bar looking upwards, the posterior intertrochanteric ridge; while, in front, a rough Uiie called anterior intertrochanteric begins at the great trochanter by a tubercle at the upper and inner side of the insertion of the gluteus minimus, and extending downwards and inwards to the inner border of the shaft, passes thence upwards and backwards in front of the small trochanter. The roughness of this line is caused by the insertion of the strong anterior fibres of the capsule of the hip-joint; the tubercle being the attachment of the outer band of Bigelow's ligament, and the pointed projection downwards at its inner part that of the ilio-femoral band. The origin of the vastus externus reaches to the tubercle, and the combined crureus and vastus internus to the anterior intertrochanteric line, as far inwards as the down- ward projection; while below this, the limit of the vastus internus continues to be indicated by a much slighter mark, the spiral line. The shaft is directed downwards, inwards, and backwards, in standing with the knees straight and the feet together. It has a continuous curve, with the convexity forwards, and in its lower third gradually increases in thickness. In the middle third it presents posteriorly a rough ridge, the linea aspera, continued upwards into a rough surface whose boundaries extend toward the two trochanters, and inferiorly prolonged into two supracondylar lines which extend to the sides of the back parts of the condyles, and inclose a smooth triangular surface looking into the popliteal space. The whole surface in front of the linea aspera and its prolongations is smooth and clothed by the vasti and crureus muscles, and thus the middle third of the shaft shows an anterior surface con- tinued into an outer and an inner surface by rounded borders, and the outer and inner surfaces separated behind by a prominent ridge. But the linea aspera presents throughout two prominent lips, with an intervening line which represents a broader surface in lower animals. Into the linea aspera are attached from within outwards, between the vasti muscles, the adductor longus, part of the adductor magnus, and the greater part of the short head of the biceps. The inner supracondylar line gives insertion to lower fibres of the adductor magnus, and ends inferiorly