656 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. Colour of the eye. In those individuals and families occasionally met with, called albinos, there is absence of pigment, not only from the hair, but also from the interior of the eyeball; and the iris is made pink by the colour of the blood circulating within it, while a pinkish hght shines through the pupil from the blood in the membrane of Ruysch. In blue and grey eyes the colour is due to the pigmented epithelium forming a dark background to the unpigmented iris proper. The more delicate the tissue of the iris, the purer is the blue colour; and thus, as the iris gets thicker, the blue eye of the child is liable to become grey in after years. Whatever be the exact optical explanation of this, a similar pheno- menon is seen in the blue appearance of the sclerotic in many children, lost as the sclerotic becomes more dense. The different shades of hazel and brown eyes depend on the amount of pigment present in the stroma of the iris. This pigment is deposited in branched corpuscles and loose granules, and its special seat is in the fore parts of the stroma. The retina is an exceed- ingly delicate membrane, but is originally part of the em- bryonic brain, and remains in its full development a nerve- centre containing both nerve- fibres and nerve - corpuscles. It separates very easily from the coats superficial to it, save only at the optic pore or papilla, a slightly elevated spot situated one-tenth of an inch internal to the axis of the eye, where the fibres of the optic nerve pierce its outer strata and spread out on the surface turned toward the vitreous humour. It is trans- parent in the perfectly fresh condition, and of a pale pink colour, except in the central spot, the macula lutea, to be separately described. But when eyes are kept in the dark, and removed and exam- ined in sodium or magnesium lights, they exhibit a deep purple colour owing to the presence of a substance called rhoclopsin in the structures termed the rods. The rhodopsin, or visual purple, is rapidly destroyed by exposure to most kinds of light. More gradually the trans- FiG. 491.—ScHKMA OF ELEMENTS OF Retina. A, Special element: 1, bacillary layer, rods and cones; 2, outer nuclear layer; 3, outer molecular layer; 4, inner nuclear layer; 5, inner molecular layer; 6, ganglionic layer; 7, nerve-fibrous layer. B, Supportive elements : 1 and 7, ex- ternal and internal limiting membranes ; other numbers as in A ; the vertical structures between 1 and 7 are Muller's fibres. (After Max Schultze.)