501 LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. whole of the transverse, and the upper portion of the ascending colon join the mesocolic glands; from the lower part of the ascending colon and from the whole small intestine, with the exception of the upper part of the duodenum, the vessels pass to the mesenteric glands. The lymphatics of the stomach and the upper part of the duodenum pass with the coronary and right gastro-epiploic arteries to the coeliac glands, and with the left gastro-epiploic to the splenic lymphatic vessels; they are connected with the superior and inferior gastric glands. The lymphatics from the spleen are connected with the splenic glands, and are continued onwards to the coeliac glands, receiving as they go a few of the vessels from the stomach and those of the pancreas. The deep lymphatics of the liver pass, partly, with the portal vein to the hepatic glands, and thence to the coeliac glands, and, partly, with the hepatic veins through the diaphragm, to terminate in a few glands which lie beside the thoracic portion of the inferior vena cava; the efferent ducts of these glands pass backwards to the lower end of the thoracic duct. The superficial lymphatics of the liver pass in several directions—(a) those from the mesial portions of the upper surface ascend between the layers of the falciform ligament, pierce the diaphragm behind the ensiform process, and join the anterior mediastinal glands, the efferent ducts from which pass partly to the right lymphatic duct and partly to the thoracic duct; (b) those from the lateral portions of the upper surface descend to the coeliac glands; (c) those from the posterior border pierce the diaphragm, and reach the glands in contact with the thoracic portion of the inferior vena cava; ((/) those from the under surface join the deep lymphatics which accompany the portal vein, and like them are connected with the hepatic glands before reaching the coeliac glands. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. Glands. The anterior intercostal or sternal glands, seven or eight in number on each side, are placed at the sternal extremities of the intercostal spaces by the sides of the internal mammary arteries. They receive a few of the lymphatics from the inner side of the mammary gland, the deep vessels of the anterior part of the chest wall, and those which accompany the superior epigastric and musculo-phrenic arteries. They are connected with the anterior mediastinal glands, and their efferent vessels pass upwards, on the right side, to the right lymphatic duct, and, on the left, to the thoracic duct. The posterior intercostal glands form a group on each side of the spine at the vertebral extremities of the intercostal spaces. The in- dividual glands are of very small size, and there are usually two or three in each interspace. They receive the deep lymphatics of the posterior part of the thoracic wall, and the hinder part of the parietal pleura, and those of the deep muscles of the back, and of the spine. The efferent