THE PORTAL SYSTEM OF VEINS. 483 pancreas and immediately in front of the vena cava inferior, a little to the right of the middle line. It ascends behind the first part of the duodenum and enters the small omentum, between the folds of which, lying behind the hepatic artery and bile duct, it passes towards the transverse fissure of the liver. At its termination it becomes somewhat swollen, and divides into right and left branches, which pass to the respective lobes, that for the richt beino- shorter and thicker than that destined for the left; the left branch, in addition, partly supplies the quadrate and Spigelian lobes. The left branch of the portal vein is connected posteriorly with a solid cord, the remains of the ductus venosus, and anteriorly with the round ligament of the liver, the remains of the umbilical vein. The right branch is joined by the cijstic vein. The trunk of the portal vein receives the coronary vein of the stomach and, a little lower, the pyloric vein, both of which correspond to the similarly named arteries. The superior mesenteric vein is the companion of the superior mesenteric artery, to the right and in front of which it is placed. In addition to branches which correspond to those of the artery it receives near its upper extremity the right gastro-epiploic vein. It crosses in front of the third part of the duodenum, and terminates behind the pancreas in the portal vein. The splenic vein lies immediately below the splenic artery, and receives, in addition to branches which correspond to those of the artery, the inferior mesenteric vein, which, ascending from below, joins it near its termination in the portal vein. The inferior mesenteric vein passes upwards, at first, on the left side of the inferior mesenteric artery; afterwards, ascending beyond the level of the place of origin of the artery, it is continued with an inward inclination behind the pancreas, and terminates in the splenic vein. Its branches correspond to those of the artery ; those which are lowest in position, the superior haemorrhoidal, take origin in the haemorrhoidcd plexus, where they freely communicate with the middle and inferior haemorrhoidal veins. The plexus lies immediately under the mucous membrane of the lower part of the rectum. THE VEINS OF THE LIMBS. The veins of the limbs are divided into two groups, deep and super- ficial in position, freely communicating with one another. They are all provided with valves, but these are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial veins, and in those of the lower than in those of the upper limb. The deep veins accompany the arteries, and, as a rule, need no detailed description; but the superficial veins have mostly no arteries corresponding to them, and form plexuses on the surface of the fascia, more particularly at the distal extremities of the limbs.