356 THE MUSCLES. the layers of fascia approaching one another from the opposite sides of the neck split into two just before reaching the middle line, and a double junction is effected^ with the result that an interfascial space is formed in the front of the lower part of the neck, its walls being attached below to the anterior and posterior margins of the sternum. At its lower angles this space is prolonged for a short distance outwards on each side on the deep surface of the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid; the anterior jugular veins lie for a portion of their course in the space, and each passes outwards in the lateral recess of its own side. From the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle an important deep process of the fascia passes forwards and inwards. This process surrounds the common carotid arteries and their accompanying structures, forming a sheath for them with distinct compartments for the artery, the vein and the vagus nerve. Beyond the vessels the process divides into two, a visceral and a prevertebral layer. The visceral layer reaches the windpipe and gullet, enveloping them in front and behind, and is continued down upon them into the thorax, where it joins the fibrous layer of the pericardium. The prevertebral layer passes in front of the longus colli and the bodies of the vertebrae, and is likewise continued down into the thorax. Delicate septa, passing between the anterior portion of the visceral layer and the more superficial layer, complete the investment of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Behind the visceral layer, between it and the prevertebral layer, is the retro-oesophageal space, which, however, is not entirely uninterrupted, but is bridged across by delicate bands of con- nective tissue which pass between the layers of fascia which form its walls. Another important deep process passes from the fascia in the upper part of the neck in the region where, stretching to the zygoma, it covers the parotid gland. The deep process passes upwards on the deep surface of the parotid, completing a sheath for the gland, and investing the posterior belly of the digastric, the styloid and the pterygoid muscles. The parotid capsule is dense, and in swelling of the gland, such as occurs in the affection known as "mumps,"' the pressure which it exercises upon the nerves contained within the gland is frequently so great as to give rise to severe pain. The submaxillary gland is also encapsuled. In connection with the deep process which passes to the skull on the deep surface of the parotid, a number of stronger bands or ligaments are developed. The stylo-maxillary ligament stretches from the styloid process to the angle of the jaw, and is the strongest portion of the layer intervening between the parotid and submaxillary glands. The spheno-maxillary ligament, or internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw (p. 244), is similarly continuous with the fascia at its anterior and posterior borders. Two other bands, which are partly connected with the fascia, may be mentioned here. The first, the pterygo-maxillary ligament from the hamular process to the extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, gives origin to the buccinator in front and a portion of the superior constrictor of the pharynx behind;