THE BLOOD. 9 bleeding was generally practised, termed the straw-coloured layer buffing, the contraction of the clot cupping, and attached importance in fevers and inflammatory complaints to the blood being buffed and cupped. If blood be agitated with a bundle of twigs while it is being removed from the body, the fibrin at once adheres in a firm contracted coagulum to the twigs, while, in the defibrinated blood which remains, the red corpuscles rapidly separate from the serum. The red corpuscles or discs, in their characteristic condition, as seen, for example, in blood from a puncture of the finger, are biconcave circular discs, the vast majority of them having exactly one size in any one specimen. Their diameter is variously estimated at from -g-oVo^^ sttoo^^ inch. None of them exceed that size, but a few much smaller are often seen in the blood of persons in perfect health. Their colour under the microscope is a uniform orange, corresponding in tint to that of a thin streak of blood on a white plate. But in dark venous blood this is changed Fig. 4.—Blood-Corpuscles of Man. a, a, Red corpuscles of ordinary appearances ; b, h, occasional red corpuscles of smaller size ; c, c, minute particles of red substance ; d, red coi-puscle crenated by evaporation ; e, red corpuscle swollen by addition of water ; /, finely granular white corpuscle; g, similar white corpuscle spread amoeboidly on the glass; h, coarsely granular white corpuscle ; i, small hyaline white corpuscle. to a dull or purplish crimson^ and the form is slightly biconvex. Frequently one sees red corpuscles perfectly flat, like a wafer, and without any simulation of a bounding membrane. When they are biconcave and the edges are completely in focus the central part has a darker shade, not unlike a nucleus, but disappearing as the focus is altered. It is only very exceptionally that a nucleus is really met with in a red corpuscle in a grown mammal. But in the young embryo all the red corpuscles are nucleated, and they are larger than those of the adult. On the addition of water, the red substance of the corpuscles becomes diffused through the fluid, while an amorphous solid remainder is left; and if this experiment be performed with defibrinated blood in a test-tube, the solid substance will collect in the form of a white sediment at the bottom. The soluble red substance consists mainly of haemoglobin, the insoluble residuum is called the stroma. Haemoglobin is a chemical substance which so far as can be yet ascertained would appear to be decidedly more complex than even albumin.