210 THE SKELETOX. the occipitales muscles and the thin aponeurosis bet\Yeen them. The part between the curved lines presents on each side of the crest a large depres- sion for the complexus muscle, rough in its lower part for a deep-seated tendon; and further outwards a less distinct longitudinal depression marking the insertion of the obliquus capitis superior. Below the in- ferior curved line are two other depressions, the inner for the rectus capitis posticus minor, and the outer for the rectus capitis posticus major. The articular condyles lie to the sides of the anterior half of the foramen magnum; behind them are the ];mterior condyloid foramina already mentioned, one or both of which may be absent, and in front, close to where the outer margins of the condyles curve inwards, are the exits of the anterior condyloid foramina, also already mentioned. Extending from condyle to jugular process behind the jugular notch is a rough prominence giving attachment to the rectus capitis lateralis; and this pro- minence has a certain interest as the representative of the paroccipital process which in various animals, as the pig and the sheep, is greatly elongated to give attachment to the muscles which in man are inserted into the mastoid process. The inferior surface of the basilar process presents in the middle the ijliaryngeal fuhercle, giving attachment to the occipital ligament of the pharynx, and on each side of this a line in front of which the rectus capitis anticus major muscle is inserted, while behind and further out is placed the insertion of the rectus capitis posticus minor. The condyles for articulation with the atlas have their posterior extremities opposite the middle of the foramen magnum, and curve in- wards as they pass forwards on each side of it. They are convex both longitudinally and transversely, with their inner margins prominent, and might seem to lie in the circumference of a sphere, but on close inspec- tion are seen to be traversed by an oblique line of greatest convexity, dividing each into an anterior and posterior facet corresponding with the basilar and posterior parts which lie at right angles in a dog or a sheep. Internal to them, are two rough impressions, the attachments of the lateral odontoid ligaments. The fore parts of the condyles are projected in the adult on two short wedges of support, beyond the level of the foramen magnum. These wedges are absent at birth, and tend to dis- appear in old age, and are connected with the balance of the head on the column, being developed proportionately to the increase of weight of the forehead and face.^ The condyles are much flatter at birth, and often flattened in old age. They are comparable with the superior articular surfaces of the axis in respect that they are completed in front hy the mesial element, the basi-occipital, which has within it, in foetal life, the notochord. ^ Cleland, Philosophical Transactions, 1870, and Memoirs and Memoranda in Anatomy, 1889.