646 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. punctum of each lid a canaliculus is directed vertically for about a twelfth of an inch. The canaliculi abruptl,y turn to run inwards above and below the canthus, and open close together or by a single opening into the lachrymal sac, behind the attachment of the tendo palpebrarum. Lachrymal gland Fig. 477. —Lachrymal Apparatus. The nasal fossa and the frontal and maxillary , sinuses are laid open. The lachrymal sac occupies the groove formed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the maxilla, and its fine mucous membrane is supported internally by periosteum, and externally by fibres continued from the periosteum of the margin of the groove. It is supported also by the tensor tarsi muscle passing forwards across it. It is continued inferiorly into the nasal duct, in which the mucous membrane adheres to the periosteum till it reaches the nasal fossa at the fore part of the inferior meatus. There the mucous membrane is slightly redundant and may offer resistance to catheterization, if not lightly handled. In the canaliculi and the lower end of the nasal duct the epithelium is stratified squamous; in the intervening sac and greater part of the nasal duct it is simple columnar ciliated. The Eyeball. The eyeball is a nearly spherical structure, the surroundings of which, including its muscles and movements, have been already considered (p. 334). The diameter perpendicular to the centre of the cornea or transparent part in front is called the axis of vision; and the vertical plane passing through the centre, at right angles to the axis, is called the equator. The equator is circular and about an inch in diameter; the axis of vision is somewhat shorter; and the fore part of the circumference, formed by the cornea, has the curve of a smaller sphere than the remainder formed by the sclerotic. Within the sclerotic and cornea, which together con- stitute the outer coat, is the middle coat or tunica vasculosa, consisting of choroid, ciliary muscle, ciliary processes and iris, and inside this the nervous