611 THE ROOT PART OF THE CEREBRUM. Fig. 442.—Concbetiotsts of acervulus cerebri in tissue of pineal body. Three show their nodu- lated surfaces, while the fourth is focussed for its centre, to display the lamination round a shrivelled corpuscle. its structure it presents a number of crypts containing epithelium, and sup- ported by connective tissue. The crypts are the seat of numerous nodulated concretions of lime salts, which can be felt like sand when the substance is laid hold of with the forceps, and are known as acerviilux cerebri. The pineal body is better developed in young subjects and in at least some mammals than in the human adult. ^ The posterior ichife commissure of the third ventricle is not a cylindrical band as at first sight it appears, but a thin sheet of white substance pro- longed forwards from the corpora quadrigemina, and folded back on itself. Its free edge is again turned slightly forwards, and where so turned has the pineal body attached to it mesially, while on each side it is pro- longed forwards on the optic thalamus at the margin where the white upper surface of that body meets the grey surface opposed to its neighbour. The prolongations are called p>ineal crura or striae, and the recess between these, the pineal recess. The whole arrangement gives the appearance as if the posterior commissure had formed a primordial roof to the third ventricle, with the pineal body at its fore end, and as if the vascular connections of the latter or some other cause had held it back while the optic thalami grew in a forward direction. The anterior white commissure is a small round fasciculus of white nerve-fibres visible in the anterior wall of the third ventricle, close in front of the anterior pillars of the fornix, as these descend and turn back- wards to the corpora albicantia. Its fibres pass into the part of the corpora striata known as the internal capsule. It is distinct even in birds, though they have no other commissure of the hemisphere-vesicles. The pituitary hodij is a tough reddish structure, occupying the sella turcica, in a special recess of the dura mater, the opening of which is contracted and surrounded by the circular venous sinus. It consists of an anterior and a posterior lobe. The anterior lobe, much the larger and some- what embracing the posterior, is a prolongation upwards of the roof of the stomodaeal epiblast, and exhibits throughout life columns of closely-set cor- ^ Descartes imagined the pineal body to be the seat of the soul. GeofFroy St. Hilaire looked on it as a vestigial structure indicating a primeval entrance to the alimentary canal between the lateral halves of the central nervous system, such as occurs among invertebrata; and his view was afterwards favoured by Goodsir, and still later by Owen (1881). lu recent years it has been noted that in elasmobranch fishes and various reptilian forms the pineal body actually is connected tubularly with a vesicle beneath the skin, which is spoken of as a vestige of a mesial parietal eye.