DEVELOPMENT OF STOMACH, INTESTINE AND LIVER 7^7 limb of the loop, turning it round, as they travel first to the right and then downwards. This twist of the loop is not, however, altogether due to travelling of its lower limb, for the base of its upper limb is at the same time elongated semicircularly to form the duodenum. The part of the intestine beyond the primary loop, at first straight, becomes arched and i thrown over to the left side by elongation of its mesocolon, which in the third month is still mesial, the descending colon being merely in contact with the left side of the posterior wall of the abdomen, but not at that date attached to it. The smaller sac of the peritoneum is originally simply the right side of the mesogastrium. By the turning of the stomach on its side, and the descent of its oesophageal extremity, the mesogastrium becomes pouched, and the pouch so begun increases in size but is at first quite independent of the colon. Afterwards the inferior wall of the mesogastrium and the left wall of the mesial mesocolon become pulled away from the : posterior wall of the abdomen near the middle line, and this brings the I transverse colon into connection with the smaller sac of the peritoneum. The liver makes its first appearance close to the pylorus as a bifurcating I protrusion or, more correctly, a pair of protrusions from the ventral aspect ' of the intestine, which elongate in close connection with the omphalo- mesenteric veins. In mammals it would seem that those protrusions com- mence after the stomach has begun to turn on its side, and the left protrusion appears first. Each protrusion sends out ramifying branches which go on dividing, and the hepatic cells are derived from the hypoblastic corpuscles within the ramifications, and are thus similar in origin to the secreting t cells of other intestinal glands. Subsequently the processes anastomose, f while they still give off side-shoots, and outgrowing branches from the I vitelline vein form a network interlacing with them, and developing into ' a system of venae advehentes and revehentes, which result in the portal and hepatic veins. In later development there is still considerable difference from the adult arrangements. In a foetus of five months, adjacent capillaries have still a number of hepatic cells between them, and even at birth the columns of cells in the lobules are more liable to present two or three abreast than afterwards. The pancreas in the vertebrata generally is now known to take rise from three distinct intestinal outgrowths—a dorsal opposite the biliary pro- trusion, and two ventral, right and left of it. i THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. Leaving out of consideration the nasal passages and mouth, the resi)ir- l I atory organs consist of larynx, trachea and bronchi, and the lungs, in which the bronchial tubes, continuous with the bronchi, pursue their course to the air-cells. 3 a I