744 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. the thyro-arytenoid muscles have a very distinct action, namely, to approach the front of the thyroid cartilage to the arytenoids. They therefore come into action in the production of deep notes. The approach of the bases of the arytenoid cartilages to the thja^oid being effected by revolution of the cricoid cartilage on the inferior cornua of the thyroid, the crico-thyroid space is enlarged, as can be felt with the finger in making a deep note. ! Thus the thyro-arytenoidei are the opponents of i the crico-thyroidei muscles. The arytenoid muscle is a single muscle whose transverse fibres cross the middle line, being attached to the posterior surfaces of the ary- tenoid cartilages. The arijteno-epiglottidecm muscles are two long slips which, arising one behind each processus muscularis, decussate in the middle line, and, turning each round the summit of the opposite arytenoid cartilage, extend into the aryteno- epiglottidean fold beyond. Fibres may take origin from the arytenoid cartilage as they turn round it, and sometimes the fibres on the surface of the arytenoid muscle are absent. The thyro-epiglottidecm muscles consist of fibres of the same sheet as the external part of the thyro-arytenoid muscle, arising higher from the thyroid cartilage external to the saccule and passing upwards and backwards to the aryteno- epiglottidean fold. Two pairs of hyo-epiglottidean muscles have been described by Macintyre {British Medical Journal, 15th September, 1888), one pair arising near the middle line, from the body of the hyoid, and the other arising from the great cornua, and both inserted into the dorsum of the epiglottis near its base. Vessels and nerves. The superior laryngeal artery enters the larynx by piercing the thyro-hyoid membrane along with the superior laryngeal nerve. It is given oif by the superior thyroid, which also supplies the crico-thyroid muscle, its crico-thyroid branch anastomosing with its fellow, in front of the crico-thyroid ligament. The inferior laryngeal artery enters the larynx in company with the recurrent laryngeal nerve beneath the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The laryngeal nerves are branches of the vagus; the superior laryngeal supplies the mucous membrane, and before entering the larynx gives off the external laryngeal to supply the crico-thyroid muscle, while the other mu&cles are supplied by the recurrent laryngeal. Fifj. 578.—Larynx from the Left and Behind. «, Section of thyroid cartilage, the left side of which is removed with the ex- ception of b, the part articulating with the cricoid cartilage ; c, arytenoideus muscle; d, posterior crico-arytenoideus ; e, crico-thy- roideus; ./', crico-thyroid liga- ment ; g, crico-arytenoideus lateralis; h, thyro-arytenoideus, its upper edge corresponding with the edge of the vocal cord ; f, k, thyro- and aryteno-epi- glottideus,resting on the ary teno- epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane. A portion of the mucous membrane is removed between h and I- to show the position of the glottis.