114 THE SKELETON. The axis has its body surmounted laterally by superior articular sur- faces homologous with the articular surfaces of the atlas, and in the middle by the odontoid process. The superior articular surfaces look upwards and outwards, but are slightly raised in their transverse diameter, so as to leave gaps in front and behind between them and the opposed surfaces of the atlas. The odontoid process is a pillar with a slightly constricted neck, smooth behind where it glides on the transverse ligament of the atlas, and with an oval surface in front reaching nearly to the summit for articulation with the atlas. Its summit is rough and presents two lateral slopes which give attachment to the check ligaments. The under surface of the body of the axis, the inferior notches and the inferior articular processes, are similar to those of the succeeding vertebrae. The laminae are continued into a deeply bifid spine, much stronger and also larger than* those immediately succeeding it, and giving attachment to muscles both above and below it. The transverse process is short, and has only one tip. The sacrum consists of five vertebrae united together, not only by their bodies, laminae and articular processes, but also outside the intervertebral 4- Fig. 125 Fig. 126. Fig. 125.—Sacrum and Coccyx, front view. The sacrum is turned sufficiently to one side to show the right auricular surface descending as far as the middle of the third sacral vertebra, and behind it, in shade, the surface of attachment of the dorsal sacro-iliac ligament. The epiphysis of the auricular surface, and that over the body of the first vertebra, are not yet completely united to the main bone. Fig. 126.—Sacrum and Coccyx. View from behind and from the left side. foramina, which consequently are converted into bifurcating canals opening the tips of the transverse processes of the atlas and axis are in series with the posterior tubercles of those of the vertebrae following, while the anterior tubercles or tips of ribs are represented by mere roughness at the roots of the transverse pro- cesses (Allen, Journal of Anatomy and Physiology, xiv., p. 18).