351 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF HEAD AND NECK. the insertions of the muscles into the lower border of the hyoid bone ;i bursa usually intervenes. Variations among the infra-hyoid muscles are by no means infrequent. One or other of them, or one of the bellies of the omo-hyoid, is occasionally absent, and accessory bands are often present, more particularly in the case of the omo-hyoid. Nerves. The thyro-hyoid receives a special branch from the hypoglossal. The others are supplied from the loop formed by the junction of a branch from the second and third spinal nerves with the descending branch of the hypoglossal. In all probability all the fibres of supply, even those from the hypoglossal, are derived from the first three spinal nerves through the connections which pass between the cervical plexus and the hypoglossal. Actions. The sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid depress the hyoid bone, the sterno-thyroid depresses the larnyx, while the thyro-hyoid either depresses the hyoid bone or elevates the larynx according to circumstances. The thyro-hyoid comes into play in raising the larynx in deglutition and in the production of the high notes of the voice; the others are called into action to depress the hyoid bone and larynx after deglutition, and in the production of the low notes. THE LATERAL MUSCLES. The sterno-mastoid (sterno-deido mastoid) arises in two portions, sternal and clavicular, separated below by a narrow interval, and joining together in the lower third of the neck. The sternal portion springs by a short tendon from the anterior surface of the manubrium, the clavicular portion by mixed fleshy and tendinous fibres from the upper border of the inner third of the clavicle. The clavicular portion passes almost vertically upwards on the deep surface of the common mass, and, narrowing, is inserted by tendon into the tip of the mastoid process. The sternal portion, passing upwards and backwards on the surface of the muscle, and broadening, is inserted into the rough area on the outer surface of the process and into the outer third or half of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Frequently a bundle of fibres {deido-occipitalis) belonging to the clavicular portion passes upwards along the posterior border of the muscle to the superior curved line. Occasionally a muscular slip connects the anterior border of the trapezius with the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. The muscle is supplied by the spinal accessory nerve, and by branches from the second cervical nerve. It is inclosed in a strong sheath of the cervical fascia. The external jugular vein, descending, crosses it, and in the lower third of the neck lies along its posterior border; the anterior jugular vein passing outwards to join the external jugular crosses the deep surface immediately above the origin. The sterno-mastoid covers the lower portions of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, crosses the omo-hyoid, and at its insertion overlies the splenius, trachelo-