THE SKELETON. 118 of them adherent each to the costal cartilage above and the two last lying free in the muscular wall. Having regard to these differences, the first seven ribs are called sternal or true, and the remaining five are distinguished as asternal or false, while the eleventh and twelfth are called floating ribs. In an early embryonic condition each rib was part of the same cartilage as the corresponding vertebra, but in process of development the posterior end or head of each, with the exception of the first and the last three, was displaced upwards so as to articulate with the body of the vertebra above, as well as its own; and the head presents, therefore, an upper and a lower articular surface separated by a ridge for an interarticular ligament. Each rib, with the exception of the eleventh and twelfth, articulates with the transverse process of its own vertebra by a part called the tubercle, which presents two portions —an articular surface looking backwards and downwards, and, outside the articular surface, a ridge for the posterior costo-transverse liga- ment. The part between the head and the tubercle is the neck, and the remainder of the rib is the shaft or body. The back of the shaft is crossed by an oblique rough- ness, called the angle, marking the outermost attachments of the erector spinae muscle. The neck is longest in the first rib, and getting gradually shorter disappears in the eleventh and twelfth. On the upper surface the neck has a groove with a ridge in front of it. The shaft becomes more compressed as it is followed forwards, and in most ribs is somewhat expanded in front. It ends in a shallow depres- sion into which the costal cartilage fits, inseparably united to the bone. On the inner surface of the shaft inferiorly is the subcostal groove; extending outwiirds from the tubercle, best marked at the angle, and Fig, 129.—First, Second, Sixth and Twelfth Ribs of Left Side, from above, a, Interarticular ridge of head ; b, single articular facet of head of first and twelfth ; c, rough elevation of tubercle ; d, opposite articular facet of tubercle, itself not seen ; e, angle ; /, insertion of scalenus medius ; g, tubercle at inner end of line of insertion of scalenus anticus, between the grooves of the subclavian artery and vein ; h, on the twelfth corresponds with the tubercle of other ribs. The shadows show the vertical curves of the ribs.