THE FIBULA. 177 The shaft is altogether clothed with muscles, except for a short distance above the external malleolus, whose subcutaneous surface is continued upwards a short distance and comes to a point, from which the sharp anterior harder extends up to the head, giving attachment to the aponeurosis of the limb. Outside this border is the external surface continuously grooved from the head downwards, giving origin in its upper two-thirds to the peroneus longus and breads muscles, and inferiorly turning backwards behind the malleolus. The outer border, behind the peroneal muscles, likewise gives attachment to the aponeurosis of the limb. It separates the external from the interior surface, which is convex in its upper three-fourths, and twists inwards inferiorly to end at the rough surface for the inferior interosseous ligament. The posterior surface is roughened by the fibular origin of the soleus muscle for two or three inches downwards from the head, and gives attachment in the greater part of the rest of its extent to the flexor longus hallucis. It is separated by a sharp internal harder from the internal surface, which is sometimes described as two, because it is diagonally crossed from above downwards and backwards by a ridge gi"\'ing attachment to the interosseous membrane, the partition separating the anterior from the posterior muscles of the leg. The portion in front of this ridge gives attachment to the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles; and the portion behind affords origin to the outer part of the tibialis posticus; while a few fibres of the extensor hallucis arise from the lower part of the ridge itself. THE BOXES OF THE FOOT. The Tarsus. The tarsus consists of seven bones, of which the two largest, the astragalus and the calcaneum, are placed behind, the astragalus resting on the calcaneum. The astragalus is inclined forwards and inwards, and carries in front of it the scaphoid, which supports the three cuneiform bones, while these in turn carry in front of them the metatarsals of the three inner toes. The calcaneum is inclined forwards and outwards, and supports the cuboid bone, which carries in front of it the two outer meta- tarsal bones. Thus the cuboid and the three cuneiforms together form an anterior row articulating with the five metatarsals. The astragalus or talus articulates with the tibia and fibula by means of an articular surface which, fitting in between the malleoli, extends over its hodi/. Continued forwards in front of the inner two-thirds of the body is the necl; supporting an articular head which enters into the astragalo- calcaneo-scaphoid articulation and has its surface prolonged backwards inferiorly as far as a deep groove directed obliquely underneath the part covered by the superior articular surface, and giving attachment to the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament. This groove has its outer end in M