405 THE HEART. lateral cusps ; from the posterior muscles they are directed to the angle between the septal and posterior cusps; to the angle between the septal and anterior cusps there pass tendinous bands which spring from the septum either directly or by small muscular points. Sometimes one or other of the cusps is partially divided into two, and there are to be found in some cases small, intermediate cusps in the angles between the larger ones. The valve at the root of the pulmonary artery is not so strong as that at the base of the aorta. The left ventricle, which rests below and behind on the diaphragm, occupies the greater part of the posterior surface of the ventricular portion of the heart, only a comparatively small portion of it appearing in front. It forms the whole apex. In the interior of the ventricle the columnae carneae present a complicated arrangement, especially at the apex. They are absent from the upper part of the septum and anterior wall, so that Posterior lateral cusp of tricuspid valve | Septal cusp Anterior lateral cusp Fig. 311.—The Heart, from before and the right side. The cavities of the right auricle and ventricle have been exposed by the removal of a portion of the wall. the region of the cavity which is immediately below the aortic orifice, and has been named the aortic vestibule, presents a smooth surface. The musculi papillares form two large groups, one left or anterior in position, the other right or posterior. The orifices of the ventricle are situated very close together in the upper part of the ventricle, the aortic being higher than the other, and to the right of it. The auriculo-ventricular orifice, admitting only two fingers in normal circumstances, is smaller than that of the right side, and the valve which guards it, though similar in general construction to the tricuspid valve, is much stronger. It presents two cusps only, and has been named, in consequence, the bicuspid or mitral valve. The cusps are placed obliquely, and are of unequal size, the larger being anterior to the other, and to the right of it. The ventricular surface of