208 THE SKELETON. inner part three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, the vagus or pneumogastric^ and the spinal accessory. The deep surface presents, about midway between the lateral angles, a prominence, the internal occipital protuberance, to which converge four prominent lines from the superior and lateral angles and the back of the foramen magnum, separating one from another the two superior and two inferior occipital fossae, on which rest the posterior cerebral lobes and the lobes of the cerebellum respectively. The inferior line {internal occipital crest) is a simple ridge giving attachment to the falx cerebelli, but the others are grooved, and correspond in position with two venous sinuses in the dura mater, as the fibrous membrane is called w^hich performs the office of periosteum and forms the outermost envelope of the brain. The upper groove marks the position of the terminal part of the superior longi- tudinal sinus, which pours its blood into the lateral sinuses, two channels coursing outwards on the transverse grooves, and destined, after curving down on the parietal and temporal bones, each of them to mark the occipital with a second and deeper groove, directed inwards behind the jugular pro- cess, and forwards to the jugular notch. The basilar process is hollowed longitudinally by the basilar groove, on which lies the medulla oblongata, and is bevelled at the margin, where the edge of the inferior petrosal sinus rests. Passing backwards from the sides of the basilar groove, a pair of eminences mark the places of junction of the basi-occipital and exoccipital elements, and are continued thence as ridges round to the back of the foramen magnum. These supraforaminal ridges form, when clothed with the dura mater, the upper limit of the funnel leading down into the spinal canal. Inside and behind the ridge, beneath the eminence, there is situated on each side the inner orifice of the anterior condyloid foramen, through which the hypoglossal nerve passes in a direction downwards, forwards and outwards; while, external to the ridge, there is placed the deep orifice of the posterior condyloid foramen, an aperture not always present, by which a vein passes upwards, forwards and outwards from behind the condyle, to end in the lateral sinus (Fig. 221). The superficial surface presents, at a spot nearly opposite the internal protuberance, a projection called the external occipital protuberance, the mesial point whence curves outwards to the lateral angles the superior curved line, corresponding with the more prominent ridge, or transverse crest, which in the lower animals separates the cervical aspect from the roof. A mesial ridge {external occipital crest) passes from this to the foramen magnum and is crossed by an inferior curved line extending outwards and forwards to the jugular processes. The part above the superior curved line is smooth, and the middle of its convexity is called the occipital probole. The superior curved line is itself expanded more or less distinctly in young subjects and some adults, into an area giving an attachment internally to the trapezius muscle, and externally to the splenius and sterno-cleido-mastoid, while its upper limit gives origin to