613 THE ROOT PART OF THE CEREBRUM. become covered by the hemispheres, extend onwards to the optic commissure or chiasma, where the fibres of each divide into two parts, one traveling to the retina of the same side, and the other decussating with its fellow of the opposite side and going to the other eye. Fibres also pass from one tract to the other in the inferior and hinder part of the chiasma (commissure of Gmhlen), and are said to join together the two internal geniculate bodies. It is to be noted that the arrangement of a chiasma with partial decussation occurs only in mammals. In fishes and reptiles the one optic stem may cross the middle line free from the other, without division into tract and nerve at that point. Deep structure of root of cerebrum. The crura cerebri are divided into two parts—the cnista or ventral part, and the tegmentum or dorsal. It is only the crusta which is completely divided into two pillars. A transverse vertical section through the corpora quadrigemina and crura shows grey matter of the corpora quadrigemina separated by a white streak from that which surrounds the aqueduct of Sylvius in continuity with the floor of the third and fourth ventricles, and beneath and around this the tegmentum, separated by a definite outline from the crusta below. The crusta consists of the continuation upwards of the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata, greatly added to by other fibres from sources not easy to determine, though some of their fasciculi are distinctly traceable by dissection from the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. It passes on beneath the optic thalamus into a broad white tract, called the internal capsule, beneath the nucleus caudatus of the corpus striatum, and spreading out toward every part of the cortex of the hemisphere, under the name of corona radiata. In the plane of contact of crusta and tegmentum there is a broad sheet of blackish hue extending outwards from the middle line where overlapped by the pons Varolii; it is called the substantia nigra, and owes its darkness to pig- mented nerve-cells. It may be said to occupy an angular recess con- tinuous with the tuber cinereum and crushed together dorso-ventrally by the unusual thickness of the crusta and the pons Varolii in the human subject. Another very distinct, but much smaller, patch of pigmented cells is likewise placed in a retreating angle, being situated between the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the posterior longitudinal bundles, where the aqueduct of Sylvius meets the fourth ventricle. It is called locus caeruleus, and is in transverse diameter no larger than a pellet of small shot. The posterior longitudinal bundle, already traced up from the neigh- bourhood of the outer part of the anterior column of the spinal cord, after passing up under the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle, becomes closely connected beneath the aqueduct of Sylvius wdth the nuclei of the motor nerves to the orbit (3rd, 4th, and 6th), and is prolonged beneath the grey matter of the optic thalamus (as stratum dorsale of Forel). The formatio reticularis, much diminished in extent