THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLII. 601 the posterior longitudinal bundles. The hypoglossal nucleus runs into the anterior cornu of the cord; and close to it externally, but scarcely reaching to the fourth ventricle, is the upper end of the nucleus of the spinal accessory nerv^e, the lower fibres of which come also from the cord, from the outer part of the anterior cornu. Opposite the inferior fovea the glosso-pharyngeal nerve takes origin, while the vagus takes origin continu- ously with it, from the elevation {ala cinerea) inclosed by the bifurcation of the inferior fovea; but a rounded bundle placed more deeply (fiiniculus solitarius) adds fibres from a lower level to both these nerves. The auditory nerve can be easily seen at its superficial origin to come 1 partly round by the outside I of the restiform body and I partly through the texture internal to it. It arises from the transverse district between the fovea superior and fovea infpri'nr Tfcj T^rinm'nnl ppHc; of eminentia teres; a, ala cinerea;/a, fovea anterior; str, in- liiiciiui. J-ts jjiiiiuijjdi i^ciis VL ferior cerebellar crus; br, middle crus; b, superior crus. origin, constituting the dorsal (^o^^*-) nucleus, are dorsal and internal to the restiform body; but there is a nucleus of the external root, which is closely connected with the peduncle of the flocculus, and also an accessory imcleus between the two roots. A number of the fibres cross the middle line. The nucleus of the facial nerve is external to the fovea superior, and that of the sixth nerve internal to it. Further up, near the upper margin of the pons, and to the side of the upper end of the fourth ventricle, lie the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve and a large collection of nerve-cells external to it, the sensory nucleus, both of them on a level with the emergence of the nerve, the fibres of the sensory part passing through the pons in a direct line, and those of the motor part arching with an upward convexity. Beyond these nuclei additional roots can be followed both upwards and downwards. The inferior or retroserial root has been alluded to as clothing the tip of the prolongation of the gelatinous substance of Rolando; the superior or proserial root is traced to underneath the corpora quadrigemina, and at all levels a certain number of fibres cross the Fig. 434.—Medulla. Oblongata, Corpora Quadrigemina AND Floor of Fourth Ventricle, with diagram of nuclei of origin of nerves (5 to 12); those near the surface vv^hite, those more deeply placed dotted, cl, Clava; /, mesial furrow ; e,