290 THE MUSCLES. The deep surface of the tendon is united by a strong band of aponeurotic fibres, which is closely associated with a band from the portion of the fascia lata connected with the tensor vaginae femoris, to the capsule of .the hip-joint and the acetabular margin, in close proximity to the reflected tendon of the rectus femoris. The anterior borders of the two smaller gluteal muscles are closely associated Avith one another and with the posterior surface of the tensor vaginae femoris. The pyriformis behind overlaps the minimus and is often partially incorporated with the medius. The gluteus minimus is supplied by the superior gluteal nerve. The tensor vaginae femoris {tensor fasciae latae) arises from a narrow area of the dorsum ilii immediately behind, and extending for a short distance above and below, the anterior superior spine. It is directed downwards and slightly backwards as a somewhat narrow band on the outer aspect of the upper third of the thigh and ends in the fascia lata. On the deep surface of the muscle a strong slip of fascia extends up- wards to the capsule of the hip-joint, which it joins in connection with the fibres from the gluteus minimus tendon. The portion of fascia lata in direct continuity with the muscular insertion passes downwards as the ilio-tibial band to the external lateral patellar ligament and the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Like the two smaller gluteal muscles with which it is so closely associated at its origin, it is supplied by the superior gluteal nerve. The pyriformis arises within the pelvis from the anterior surface of the second, third and fourth pieces of the sacrum. It passes as a fleshy mass outwards through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and narrows near its insertion to a rounded tendon which is attached to the upper border of the great trochanter, and is usually firmly bound to the subjacent tendon of the obturator internus. The muscle is supplied by special branches from the sacral plexus. The great sciatic nerve emerges from the pelvis at the lower border of the pyriformis and descends behind the gemelli, the obturator internus, and the quadratus femoris. The obturator internus arises within the pelvis. Its deeper fibres spring from the anterior three-fourths of the obturator membrane, the more super- ficial from the edges of the foramen arising in a semicircular line, which begins below at the lower and passes round the anterior and upper margins, and extends backwards into the angle between the ilio-pectineal line and the sacro-sciatic notch. The line of origin from the bone is interrupted opposite the groove on the upper margin of the foramen; fibres also sjoring from the fascia on the inner surface of the muscle. The fibres converge rapidly and form a narrow band, tendinous and partially divided into four in front and muscular behind, which turns over the smooth fibro-cartilaginous surface between the ischial spine and tuberosity. It is inserted, along with the gemelli and in close contact with the pyriformis, by a rounded tendon into the anterior region of the inner surface of the great trochanter. A