THE BEACHIAL AETEEY. 437 controlled by pressure directed outwards against the humerus. In opening an axillary abscess the surgeon should direct the point of the knife away from the axillary artery and avoid the subscapular behind, and the long thoracic in front, making his incision in the middle of the armpit. The Brachial Artery. The brachial or humeral artery (Fig. 330), the continuation of the axillary, extends from the lower margin of the teres major to the hollow in front of the elbow, where, opposite the neck of the radius, it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. It lies immediately under the deep fascia, and is placed at first by the inner side of the humerus, and afterwards in front of the bone; close to its termination it sinks deeply between the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles. It rests behind successively upon the long head of the triceps, the inner head of the same muscle, the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, and the brachialis anticus; to its outer side lie the coraco-brachialis and, afterwards, the biceps, the latter muscle over- lapping it in well developed subjects; in front it is crossed, near its termination, by the semilunar fascia from the biceps. Two venae comites, the inner being usually the larger, accompany it, and frequent though variable transverse branches, uniting them, cross in front of and behind the artery. The basilic vein, in the lower half of the arm, lies by its inner side, the deep fascia intervening; the median basilic vein crosses super- ficially at the bend of the elbow, the semilunar fascia being placed between it and the artery. The median nerve crosses in front of the artery, about the middle of the arm, being placed externally to it above, and internally to it below. The internal cutaneous nerve lies in contact with it internally, in the upper half of the arm; the ulnar nerve, in the same region, is internal and somewhat posterior to it; and the musculo- spiral nerve is behind it for a short distance at its upper end. (1) A number of muscular branches are given off irregularly from the brachial trunk; the most important of them constitute a set of arteries which supply the biceps, and anastomose with one another. (2) The superior profunda artery, the largest branch, springs from the inner side of the main trunk near its commencement, and passes down- wards and backwards to reach the musculo-spiral groove, in which, accom- panied by the musculo-spiral nerve, it winds round the back of the humerus. At the outer margin of the bone it divides into two branches, posterior and anterior; the posterior descends in the substance of the triceps muscle, behind the external intermuscular septum, and anastomoses below with the recurrent branch of the posterior interosseous artery; the anterior pierces the septum, along with the musculo-spiral nerve, and descends, under cover of the supinator longus, to anastomose with the recurrent branch of the radial artery. Numerous muscular branches to the triceps are detached by the superior profunda; a branch passes up-