422 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. orbital notch, in company with the supraorbital nerve, and ramifies upon the forehead, anastomosing with the temporal and frontal arteries. (c) The ethmoidal arteries are two in number, anterior and posterior ; they leave the orbit by the internal orbital canals. The posterior vessel, usually the smaller, is distributed to the upper and posterior part of the nasal mucous membrane. The anterior vessel, accompanying the nasal branch of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, first detaches some small twigs to the dura mater of the anterior cranial fossa and then descends, supplying the fore part of the nasal mucous membrane. Its terminal twig appears ex- ternally on the side of the nose, having passed outwards between the lower edge of the nasal bone and the nasal cartilage. The palpebral arteries, two slender vessels, are distributed to the upper and lower eyelids respectively, and anastomose with branches of the lachrymal artery. The frontal artery (Fig. 319), one of the terminal branches, is directed upwards for a little distance on the forehead, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side and with the supraorbital artery. The nasal artery, the other terminal branch, ramifies over the root of the nose and anastomoses with the angular branch of the facial artery. Aiiterip:s of the Cerebrum. The arterial supply of the cerebrum is most conveniently described in sequence, although only the anterior and middle cerebral arteries are derived from the internal carotids, while the posterior cerebral arteries are right and left derivatives of the basilar, a mesial vessel formed by the union of the right and left vertebral arteries. An anastomotic connection between the main trunks at the base of the brain is called the circle of Willis : it is completed by the anterior communicating artery in front and the posterior communicating arteries at the sides posteriorly. Besides the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, the internal carotid usually gives off directly a slender vessel—the anterior choroid artery. The circle of Willis (Fig. 324) is formed by the anastomosis of the branches of the basilar and internal carotid arteries at the base of the brain. The larger vessels which take part in its formation are the posterior cerebrals, internal carotids, and anterior cerebrals of opposite sides, and it is completed by the j^osterior communicating arteries stretching between the internal carotids and posterior cerebrals, and by the anterior communi- cating artery joining together the anterior cerebrals. It is heptagonal in form and within its area are placed from before backwards the optic com- missure, infundibuhim, corpora albicantia, and posterior perforated spot. It serves the purpose of equalizing the blood-pressure in the arteries distributed to the brain, and also maintains the supply to every part of the organ in cases of obstruction of one or other of the larger stems. General distribution of the arteries of the cerebrum. The arterial branches which are distributed to the brain may be divided into super- ficial and deep groups. The superficial branches ramify in the pia mater