THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. 420 along the Vidian canal, and gives branches to the pharynx, the Eustachian tube, and the levator palati muscle. The pterygo-palatine, a minute twig, passes backwards in the pterygo-palatine canal towards the upper part of the pharynx. The Internal Carotid Artery. The internal carotid artery (Fig. 323) stretches directly upwards from the termination of the common carotid artery to the carotid canal of the temporal bone, along which it passes to enter the skull. Within the skull it is distributed in branches to the brain and to the structures within the orbit. In the neck it lies at first behind and external to, but afterwards on the deep surface of the external carotid trunk. It is overlapped at first by the sterno-mastoid, then crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and finally is very deeply placed on the inner aspect of the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, the styloid process, and the parotid gland. It ascends by the side of the pharynx, and rests behind upon the rectus capitis anticus major. The internal jugular vein is external and posterior to the artery, and the pneumogastric nerve lies behind the artery, between it and the vein, en- veloped along with them in a common sheath. At the base of the skull, in addition to the pneumogastric nerve, the glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves emerge between the artery and vein. The spinal accessory is soon directed backwards across the vein, the glosso-pharyngeal passes forwards superficially to the artery, and a little lower down, near the lower edge of the digastric muscle, the hypoglossal nerve, passing forwards, likewise crosses the artery superficially. On the deep surface of the artery the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric crosses forwards. The superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic lies behind the sheath. The occipital and posterior auricular arteries pass backwards superficially to the artery, the former below and the latter above the digastric muscle. Within the carotid canal the artery is accompanied by the ascending branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and is surrounded by a plexus of small veins. It passes at first upwards, then bends forwards and inwards. In the first portion of its course it is separated from the tympanum by the thin anterior part of the inner wall of the cavity. At the bend the bony portion of the Eustachian tube crosses it externally. Further forwards, where it is leaving the canal, it underlies the outer edge of the Gasserian ganglion, being separated from it by fibrous membrane only. Within the cranium the artery at first, in continuation of its course on leaving the carotid canal, is directed forwards and inwards across the foramen lacerum medium; it then turns upwards in the groove on the side of the sphenoid, between the lingula and the petrosal process; it next passes forwards on the side of the body of the sphenoid, lying in the cavernous sinus, and invested by its lining membrane; and it finally turns upwards by the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, perforates the