THE SKELETON. 148 surface is much deeper than the outer, and in its upper half articulates from front to back with the trapezoid, while beneath this it has a facet posteriorly for the second metacarpal bone, in front of which it is rough and curves outwards into the anterior surface. The superior aspect is the smallest of all and has a slightly concave articular surface for the scaphoid bone. The trapezoid is, next to the pisiform, the smallest bone of the carpus. Its longest diameter is from its anterior to its posterior free surface; and of these the posterior is much the larger, though variable in size. The roughness of the anterior surface is prolonged backwards for some distance at the lower and outer angle, where it helps to bound the inter- val between the bases of the first and second metacarpal bones. The inferior articular surface is the broadest, and convex from side to side, supporting the second metacarpal bone. The external and internal surfaces articulate with the trapezium and os magnum respectively, while the superior is narrower and articulates with the scaphoid. Between the internal and inferior surfaces, in the posterior part of their extent, an angular facet is intercalated, which articulates with the third metacarpal bone. The OS magnum is the largest of the carpal bones. It is surmounted by a head^ the rounded articular summit of which is prolonged over the back of the bone so as to look nearly as much backwards as upwards^ and is carried still further down on the outer side; and the whole con- vexity is divided by a slight line into two parts, articulating with the scaphoid and lunar bones respectively. On the inner side is a flat articular surface extending from summit to base, interrupted by a rough mark for an interosseous ligament, and fitting against the unciform bone. On the outside, below the surface for the scaphoid, it articulates by a short flat surface with the trapezoid bone. The base, which is horizontal in front and looks downwards and outwards behind, corresponds mainly with the base of the third metacarpal bone, but posteriorly comes in con- tact also with the fourth. The non-articular anterior surface extends from summit to base, while the posterior is cut short above by the articular head, and is much broader. The unciform bone is next in size to the os magnum, and is named from a great curved process which, projecting from the inner part of its anterior surface, gives attachment to the anterior annular ligament. The outer surface of the bone is elongated and flat, corresponding with the inner surface of the os magnum, while the base is divided by a line into two facets supporting the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. The inner surface is short and rough. The upper surface is articular, looking up- wards and inwards, and in more than half its extent from the outer end is convex with an inclination backwards, while in the remainder it is con- cave and inclined forwards ; it comes mainly in contact with the cuneiform bone, but, close to the os magnum, articulates also with the lunar bone.