MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. 327 Deep fascia of the sole. As in the hand, two layers of fascia are found—one, the plantar aponeurosis, superficial to the muscles; the other more deeply placed, covering and investing the interosseous muscles. The plantar aponeurosis is divided into three regions—a central and two lateral, and along the lines of union between these intermuscular septa pass deeply into the sole. It is connected with the skin by numerous fibrous bands, and is perforated in many places for the passage of cutaneous vessels and nerves. The central ^portion, triangular in outline, is attached behind to the internal tubercle of the calcaneum. It is ex- ceedingly strong and dense, and affords origin to many of the fibres of the superficial flexor of the toes. Posteriorly the fibres of the aponeurosis are parallel and directed forwards, but in the anterior part of the foot trans- verse fibres are added, and the whole structure spreading out becomes somewhat thinner. A little behind the digital clefts it divides into five slips which, passing towards the toes, divide and sink deeply to join the metatarso-phalangeal and vaginal ligaments, the whole arrangement being similar to that of the central portion of the palmar aponeurosis, with the exception that in the foot there are five digital slips, while in the hand there are only four. A superficial transverse ligament binds the slips together, and offsets are detached to the skin. The external lateral portion forms an exceedingly strong band stretched between the external calcaneal tubercle and the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone. It invests the abductor minimi digiti, and is continuous round the border of the foot with the fascia of the dorsum. The internal lateral portion, thin and un- important, is continuous with the internal annular ligament of the ankle. It invests the abductor hallucis, and is continuous round the margin of the sole with the fascia of the dorsum. The intermuscular septa sejjarate the internal plantar vessels and nerves and the abductor and short flexor muscles of the great toe on the one hand, and the abductor minimi digiti on the other hand, from the central space of the foot which is occupied by the short flexor of the toes, the tendons of the long flexor with the lumbricales and accessorius, the tendon of the long flexor of the great toe, and the external plantar vessels and nerves. The septa are well marked behind, but much weaker in front. The interosseous fascia is weak and unimportant, but its anterior edge is strengthened into a firm band, the transverse metatarsal ligament, which binds together the heads of the five metatarsal bones. Deep fascia of the dorsum of the foot. The fascia of the dorsum is relatively unimportant. A thin layer, continued from the anterior annular ligament, surrounds the tendons and covers the short extensor muscle; more deeply, a thin layer covers the interosseous muscles and the metatarsal bones.