556 THE NERVES. the posterior surface of the stomach. The left nerve enters the thorax between the carotid and subclavian arteries, crosses in front of the arch of the aorta, and gives off its recurrent branch, which passes upwards behind the arch. It then gains the back of the root of the left lung and detaches branches which form the left posterior pulmonary plexus. Afterwards it descends as two cords upon the left side of the oesophagus and takes part in forming the oesophageal plexus. It passes through the oesophageal opening of the diaphragm as a single trunk and ramifies over the front of the stomach. Communicating branches. The most important communicating branch which the vagus receives is the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve; this cord gives one or two filaments to the ganglion of the root and then joins the ganglion of the trunk ; most of its fibres pass into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal nerves, but some descend in the trunk of the vagus. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is connected with the vagus by a twig which joins the ganglion of the root. The hypoglossal nerve exchanges some fibres with the ganglion of the trunk. The first cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic and the first loop of the cervical plexus also communicate with the ganglion of the trunk. The meningeal branch, a slender twig, arises from the ganglion of the root, and is distributed to the dura mater in the vicinity of the jugular foramen. The auricular branch, the nerve of Arnold, a delicate nerve, arises from the ganglion of the root j it passes in front of the upper end of the internal jugular vein, enters a small canal in the jugular fossa, traverses the temporal bone, crossing the inner surface of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and appears at an opening on the surface of the mastoid, behind the ex- ternal auditory meatus. It is connected by communicating branches with the glosso-pharyngeal and facial nerves. Terminally, it divides into two branches, one of which supplies the back of the pinna and the meatus, while the other joins the auricular branch of the facial nerve. The pharyngeal branches, one or two in number, arise from the ganglion of the trunk; their fibres are chiefly continued from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve. They join the pharyngeal branches of the glosso-pharyngeal and sympathetic nerves to form the pharyngeal plexus (p. 554). The superior laryngeal nerve springs from the ganglion of the trunk, and contains a number of fibres from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve. It is the sensory nerve of the greater part of the larynx, and it supplies the crico-thyroid muscle, and gives a twig to the inferior con- strictor. It passes downwards and forwards on the deep surface of the internal carotid artery, communicates with the sympathetic and the pharyn- geal plexus, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch, the internal laryngeal nerve, accompanies the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, pierces the thyro-hyoid membrane, and is