417 THE OCCIPITAL ARTERY. between the muscle and the mucous membrane, to meet its fellow of the opposite side ; the artery of the upper lip detaches a branch to the nasal septum. The lateral nasal artery ramifies upon the side of the nose, anasto- mosing with a branch of the ophthalmic artery. The angular artery is the terminal part of the facial at the inner canthus; it anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The occipital artery (Figs. 319, 323), arising opposite the facial, is directed upwards and backwards, and passes under cover of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, on the deep surface of which it reaches the inner side of the mastoid process; continuing its course it runs back- wards in the occipital groove, and crosses the lateral rectus and the superior oblique muscles; finally, at the posterior border of the splenius, becoming superficial, it turns upwards on the back of the head. The internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumogastric, spinal accessory, and hypoglossal nerves are crossed by the vessel on its way backwards, but the last named nerve loops round the artery from below, and, passing forwards, crosses it superficially close to its origin. The occipital artery gives off a number of muscular hranches, the most important of which enters the sterno-mastoid. The mastoid branch enters a foramen in the mastoid and anastomoses with a branch from the pos- terior auricular. The ramus cervicalis princeps, or descending cervical artery, is given off under cover of the splenius; it divides into two branches, one of which ramifies on the deep surface of the splenius, while the other, passing under cover of the complexus, anastomoses with the deep cervical and vertebral arteries. The termincd branches, spreading over the back of the head, anastomose with one another, and with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries. The posterior auricular artery (Fig. 319) takes origin from the external carotid a little above the occipital. It is directed upwards under cover of the parotid gland, crosses the styloid process, and, in the groove between the cartilage of the ear and the mastoid process, divides into its terminal branches, auricular and mastoid. It is crossed by the facial nerve. Some small branches pass to the parotid gland. The stylo-mastoid branch enters the stylo-mastoid foramen, and supplies twigs to the mastoid cells and to the tympanic walls, anastomosing with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary arter3^ The auricular branch supplies both surfaces of the pinna of the ear. The mastoid branch bends backwards above the sterno-mastoid, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. The temporal artery (Fig. 319) springs from the termination of the external carotid artery a little below the neck of the lower jaw. From its origin, where it is embedded in the parotid gland, it is directed upwards over the posterior root of the zygoma; about two inches above the zygoma, it divides into two branches, anterior and posterior, which ramify subcutan- eously over the side of the head. The auriculo-temporal nerve, which, in its course through the gland, is placed internally to the artery, ascends 2d