719 THE INTESTINE. namely, from the duodenum to the ileo-colic valve. It is customary to give the name jejunum to the upper two-fifths and to call the other three-fifths ileum, but the only structural differences between the upper and lower parts take place in quite a gradual manner. The distinction to which the jejunum owes its name is its usually more empty condition both as regards solid and gaseous matters. The arrangements for absorption are most developed in the upper part of the intestine, and the muscular activity may be habitually greater, but, whatever may be the cause, it is an easily observed fact that the jejunum is not so habitually distended as the ileum. Both jejunum and ileum receive their blood entirely from the superior mesenteric artery and their nerves from the plexus of the same name. An occasional diverticulum occurs on the ileum, perhaps as often as once in a hundred bodies. These diverticula are short blind protrusions lined with mucous membrane, and presenting regular muscular walls with circular and longitudinal fibres. They are confined to a limited region, usually from eighteen inches to four feet above the ileo-colic valve, and may project at right angles to the intestine or slope in a downward direction. There can be no doubt that their position corresponds with that of the extremity of the loop which projected in connection with the umbilical vesicle in the embryo, as was first recognized by Meckel, though the structure had been often observed before, and had been figured by Ruysch. Fig. 552.—Valvulae Conniventes exhibited in a piece of jejunum cut open, \. Fjg. 553—Villi, human, denuded of epithelium, lacteals and bloodvessels injected. I.acteals, -white ; bloodvessels, black. (After Teichmaun.) The mucous membrane presents in a great part of its extent permanent transverse folds of its whole thickness. These are called valvulae coiinimites, and, where most developed, have a crescentic form, extending two-thirds round the intestine, projecting a quarter of an inch in the middle, and placed about the same distance one from another. No one fold directly overlies the next, but they are placed irregularly so as to be equally dis- tributed round about. They begin about two inches from the pylorus, and