MUSCLES OF LOWER LIMB. 311 The peroneus tertius, taking origin in the ui)per part of the lower third of the leg, springs from the anterior portion of the inner surface of the fibula, the adjacent interosseous membrane, and the intermuscular septum on its outer side. Its tendon, broadening near its extremity, is inserted into the upper surface of the l)ase of the fifth metatarsal bone and gives a slip to the base of the fourth. Variations of the muscles of the anterior region of the leg. The peroneus tertius is often wanting. In connection with the others additional slips of insertion are frequently found. The tibialis anticus may be partly inserted into the fascia of the dorsum of the foot, the synovial mem- brane of the ankle, or the neck of the astragalus. The extensor hallucis longus occasionally detaches a tendinous slip to the first metatarsal bone, and a small accessory muscle, an extensor primi internodii hallucis has been observed. The tendons of the extensor digitorum longus occasionally detach slips to the corresponding metatarsal bones. POSTERIOR RE(;iON OF THE LEO. The muscles of this region are arranged in two groups, superficial and deep, between which the posterior tibial artery and nerve descend towards the foot. The superficial group is formed Ijy the gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, all of which are inserted into the basal portion of the os calcis. The gastrocnemius and soleus, large muscles, the first taking origin above and the other below the knee-joint, descend in company, the one behind the other, and together form the prominence of the calf of the leg. Theii- tendons of insertion are incorporated together to form the tendo Achillis. The plantaris, a small muscular belly with a long slender tendon, lies between the other two. Another muscle, the popliteus, altliough, from its position in front of the vessels and nerves, entitled to be ranked with the deep group, is more conveniently treated along with those of the superficial group. It is small and confined to the upper part of the leg. The internal popliteal nerve supplies the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus muscles. The soleus is partly supplied by the internal popliteal and partly by the posterior tibial nerve. The gastrocnemius is formed of two fleshy bellies which spring separ- ately from the back of the femur, and are united about the middle of the leg in a common tendon. The inner head, tendinous internally, fleshy externally, takes origin along an oblique line, of about an inch in length, which lies close above the posterior extremity of the articular surface of the internal condyle. The outer head, tendinous, arises along a somewhat shorter line at the posterior margin of the outer surface of the external condyle, extending almost vertically upwards from a depression above the popliteal groove. The fleshy bellies on the posterior surface of which