460 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. border of the qnadratus femoris with the sciatic artery, while the other, the transverse, passes backwards between the lower border of the quadratus femoris and the upper border of the adductor magnus muscles to assist in the supply of the muscles of the back of the limb and anastomose with the sciatic and upper perforating arteries. The perforating arteries (Fig. 343), four in number, including the terminal part of the deep femoral, pass backwards through the adductor magnus, close to its insertion, to supply the back of the limb ; they anastomose with the sciatic, with the internal and external circumflex arteries, with one another, and with the muscular and articular branches of the popliteal artery. They are very variable in size and number, being frequently reduced to two or three. The first, commonly the largest, pierces the adductor brevis before passing through the adductor magnus, and breaks up into its terminal branches under cover of the gluteus maximus; the second usually pierces the adductor brevis but may pass backwards by its lower border. The anastomotica magna artery (Fig. 346) springs from the femoral near the lower end of Hunter's canal, and almost immediately divides into two branches, superficial and deep. The superficial branch descends on the deep surface of the sartorius, with the internal saphenous nerve, to the upper and inner part of the leg, where it supplies the superficial parts, and anastomoses with the internal articular arteries; -the deep branch descends in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus on the surface of the vastus internus muscle, or within its substance, and anastomoses with the upper internal articular branches of the popliteal artery. Varieties of the femoral artenj. Sometimes, but very rarely, the femoral artery is absent or much reduced in size, its place being taken by an enlarged comes nervi ischiadici of the sciatic; this is the course of the main artery of the limb in birds. Surgical anatomy of the femoral artery. The course of the artery may be marked on the surface by the upper two-thirds of a line drawn from a point on Poupart's ligament, midway between the anterior superior spine and the symphysis,, to the adductor tubercle of the inner condyle of the femur. The ligature is usually applied at the apex of Scarpa's triangle. There is frequently found in the superficial fascia a large tributary of the internal saphenous vein ascending along the line of operation. The sartorius muscle is exposed, and its inner border forms the guide to the vessel. The internal cutaneous nerve descends here in front of the vessel, the femoral vein is behind, and the long saphenous nerve and nerve to the vastus internus are external; the vein and the internal saphenous nerve lie very close to the artery. The femoral artery may be secured in Hunter's canal. An incision is made along the line of the artery in the middle third of the limb; the long saphenous vein lies in the subcutaneous tissue to the inner side of the incision ; the fascia is cut through along the outer edge of the sartorius and the muscle is drawn inwards. If the limb be abducted the tendon of the adductor magnus will be made tense,