THE HUMERUS. 13^ is attached to the rough lower part of the floor of the groove. Lower down and to the outside, looking forwards and outwards, is the deltoid eminence, a prominent roughness denoting the insertion of the deltoid muscle, hifurcated above and pointed below, reaching below the middle of the shaft, where it is sometimes so elevated as to give the bone the appearance of being bent. Looking forwards and inwards about the same level there is a slight linear roughness where the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted, and just below it the arterial foramen sloping downwards into the bone and conveying the principal artery and vein of the marrow-cavity. The posterior border of the deltoid eminence is continued upwards towards the facet of the teres minor by a line from which the outer head of the triceps muscle arises, and it forms the anterior limit of the musailo-spiral groove, which twists from behind downwards and forwards and is limited below and behind by the external supracondylar ridge. This groove has resting on it the musculo- spiral nerve and superior profunda vessels, and is bare of muscular attach- ment in the length of its course, as is the inner and posterior surface with which it is continuous; but the upper part of the brachialis anticus muscle, which grasps the deltoid eminence with a bifid extremity, invades the lower and fore part of the groove, and the area so covered may be marked off" from the rest by a line, and represents the much larger groove in many animals, which reaches up the whole length of the shaft, and is covered completely with brachialis anticus. The external and internal supracondylar ridges extend upwards from the two epicondyles, and separate, below the deltoid eminence, a flat posterior surface giving fleshy origin to the short head and deep part of the triceps muscle from an anterior surface covered by the brachialis anticus and divided into an outer and inner portion by a smooth elevation descending in continuity with the deltoid muscle. The external supracondylar ridge is the roua^her and longer, and affords attachment, below the musculo-spiral groove, to the external inter- muscular septum, and, in front of the septum, in its upper two-thirds to the supinator longus, and in its lower third to the extensor carpi radialis longior. To the internal supracondylar ridge is attached the internal inter- muscular septum. The lower extremity, when laid on a flat surface, causes the shaft to incline downwards and inwards by the prominence of the inner border of the articular surface. The external epicondyle, which gives attachment to extensor muscles of the forearm, descends lower than the internal, while the interned epicondyle, which gives attachment to flexor muscles, is more pro- minent laterally. The articular surface presents two parts, one for the radium and the other for the ulna. The radial surface is seen only from the front, and consists of a spherically curved eminence, the capitellum, and a groove separating it from the sharp margin of the ulnar surface. The ulnar surface,, or trochlea, is in front internal to the radial surface, but is continued round, so as to be equally visible from behind, where it lies midway between the condyles and is broader. It is deeply grooved in its whole extent from