419 THE INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. the skull, extending forwards to the frontal, backwards to the occipital bone, and upwards to the vertex. The small meningeal branch enters the skull by the foramen ovale, on the deep surface of the emerging nerve, supplies the dura mater of the middle fossa, and gives twigs to the Gasserian ganglion. The inferior dental branch descends, with the inferior dental nerve in the dental canal, supplying all the teeth of the lower jaw, and detaches a branch which, emerging by the mental foramen, terminates on the face in anastomosis Avith branches of the facial artery. Before entering the canal the artery detaches a mylo-hyoid branch, which runs along the mylo-hyoid groove and supplies the surrounding muscles ; a small branch frequently descends for some distance with the lingual nerve. The branches of the second part of the artery are distributed to the muscles of mastication, and are named in accordance with the individual muscles which they mainly supply. The pterygoid branches are irregular in number and size. The deep temporal are generally two, posterior and anterior; they pass upwards close to the bone in the substance of the temporal muscle, and anastomose with branches of the middle temporal artery, and, through the outer wall of the orbit, with derivatives of the ophthalmic artery. The masseteric branch usually springs from the posterior deep temporal artery; passing outwards through the sigmoid notch it enters the masseter muscle. The hucccd artery ramifies on the buccinator muscle, and anastomoses with branches of the facial artery. The branches of the third part of the artery, like those of the first, enter bony foramina. The posterior superior dental descends upon the surface of the superior maxillary bone, and detaches twigs which, entering the posterior dental canals, supply the molar and bicuspid teeth. The infra- orbital artery runs forwards in the infraorbital canal and, emerging by the infraorbital foramen, terminates on the face in branches which supply the surrounding parts, and anastomose with the facial and ophthalmic arteries; on its way forwards the artery detaches twigs to the orbit, and gives off an anterior superior dental branch, which descends in the anterior dental canal to complete the supply of the teeth, and gives, on its way, twigs to the membrane lining the maxillary antrum. The superior or descending palatine artery runs downwards, with the descending branches of Meckel's ganglion, in the posterior palatine canal, and is continued forwards along the hard palate towards the incisor foramen, through which its terminal branch ascends to anastomose with the naso-palatine artery; it detaches branches to the gums and the hard palate, and in addition gives off twigs which, descending through the smaller palatine canals, ramify in the soft palate, and anastomose with the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery. The spheno-pcdatine artery passes through the spheno-palatine foramen into the nasal fossa; its branches ramify in the nasal mucous membrane, and reach the frontal and maxillary sinuses; one, the naso- palatine, descends on the septum to anastomose with the terminal branch of the descending palatine artery. The Vidian branch passes backwards