THE METATAESUS. 183 situated in the tendons of the flexor brevis halhicis; a prominent ridge lies between the grooves, and another less prominent ridge bounds the inner groove internally. The four outer metatarsal bones differ from metacarpal bones in tapering from base to head, and on the dorsal aspects presenting sub- cataneous surfaces broad at the bases and narrowing on the shafts, being- continued in the second, third and fourth into a ridge between the origins of the dorsal interosseous muscles. The second metatarsal bone is longer and the fifth shorter than the third and fourth, and, in all, the shafts have an appearance of obliquity inwards, which is least marked in the second, and most distinct in the fourth and fifth. The heads have elongated articular surfaces, convex both longitudinally and from side to side, prolonged and bifid below; on each side, behind the head there is a lateral projection near the dorsum, where the lateral ligament is attached. The second metatarsal articulates, at its base, behind with the middle cuneiform bone; internally, by only a small facet with the internal cuneiform, and sometimes by a less distinct facet with the first meta- tarsal : and, externally, it is characterized by a surface, or more generally two, an upper and a lower, divided into two facets, one in front of the other, to articulate with the external cuneiform and the third metatarsal. The third articulates behind with the external cuneiform bone, internally with the second metatarsal, and externally with the fourth. The fourth articulates behind with the cuboid by a surface narrower than the corresponding surface of any other metatarsal bone, and externally and internally by large facets with its neighbours; while, behind that for the third metatarsal bone, it has usually a small additional facet opposed to the outer edge of the external cuneiform bone. The fifth articulates behind with the cuboid bone, and internally with the fourth metatarsal, and is easily distinguished by a large tuberosity projecting outwards and backwards at its base, to give attachment to the tendon of the peroneus brevis muscle. The Phalanges. The phalanges of the foot correspond in number Avith those of the hand, and the distinguishing characteristics of their extremities are similar. The phalanges of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. In the four outer toes all the phalanges are smaller than the corresponding bones of the fingers; the phalanges of the first row are nearly circular at the large base and at the narrowest part of the con- stricted shaft; those of the second and third rows are remarkably short, only the second phalanx of the second toe being, as a rule, as much as twice as long as it is broad. In the fifth toe the dwindling is so extreme that the last two phalanges are frequently united by bony union.