THE MUSCLES. 374 with the tendon of the external oblique passing in front of the muscle, the other incorporated with that of the transversalis passing behind. In the lower part of the anterior wall of the sheath lies a small muscle, the pyramidalis. The lineae semilunares are two indistinct lines seen from the front when the fascia has been removed, marking the outer edges of the recti muscles. The lineae tranversae, three or four in number on each side, cross from each linea semilunaris to the linea alba; they mark the position of tendinous intersections in the substance of the recti muscles. The posterior border of the external oblique is sometimes overlapped by the outer edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, but frequently a narrow interval is left between them in which a few of the posterior fibres of the internal oblique are exposed, and through which there occasionally occurs a protrusion of abdominal viscera, a "lumbar hernia." The posterior edsfes of the broad muscles reach as far back as a line drawn from the last rib near its point to the iliac crest at the junction of the posterior third with the anterior two-thirds, and behind this line the posterior wall of the abdominal cavity is formed by a thin muscle, the quadratus lumborum, which stretches between the last rib above and the ilio-lumbar ligament and the iliac crest l)elow, and reaches as far inwards as the extremities of the transverse processes. On the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes and sides of the vertebral bodies lies the psoas magnus, along with which the psoas parvus, an occasional muscle, is sometimes found. The venter of the ilium is clothed by the iliacus muscle. A strong layer of aponeurosis, the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, attached to the tips of the transverse processes, stretches outwards behind the quadratus lumborum. At the outer border of the erector spinae muscle it is united with the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis which sweeps outwards from the spines, and the incorporated layers of fascia are continued into the transversalis muscle, affording it a portion of its origin. The inner surface of the abdominal wall is everywhere lined by a con- tinuous sheet of fascia, for the most part delicate, but strengthened at places, and receiving different names in the different regions which it covers. On the deep surface of the anterior and lateral part of the wall it is called transversalis fascia; on the quadratus lumborum it is known as the anterior layer of the limibar aponeurosis. On the iliacus muscle and upon the psoas and the vertebral bodies it is named iliac fascia. Above, the fascia forms a thin layer which lines the diaphragm; below, it is fixed to the margin of the true pelvis, and is continued downwards as the pelvic fascia. The lower margin of the anterior abdominal wall corresponds to a line drawn inwards and downwards from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the extremity of the first half inch of the ilio-pectineal line, and continued inwards and forwards along the first half-inch of the ilio- pectineal line and the spine and crest of the pubis to the symphysis. The lower border of the aponeurosis of insertion of the external oblique