THE SKELETON. 242 extremes are found. In recent years a great convention of c[uestionable advantage has arisen, according to which the proportion of the greatest breadth to the greatest length taken as 100 is called the cephalic index or index of breadth, those skulls in which this index is below 75 being called dolichocephalic; those in which it is above 80, brachycephalic; and the intermediate proportions, mesocephalic. The index of height is, in like manner, an expression used to indicate the proportion of height from the front of the foramen magnum as compared with the length estimated at 100, and by it a classification can be made more closely corresponding with racial affinities. But more information is to be gained from the positive measurement of length and of height than from either of the indices mentioned. In British skulls 7 inches is a common length; in the skulls of the Incas, who were an exceedingly brachycephalic race, the length may be under 5 J inches. As to height, 5J inches is about the average, and the variations are confined between the limits of 5 and 6 inches. Breadth in uncivilized dolichocephalic races may be as small as 5 inches, and in Europeans is seldom so little, and may even exceed 6 inches. Retzius subdivided each of his great divisions after a method originated by Blumenbach, who had compared skulls by looking at them from above {norma verticalis) and observing whether the upper jaw projected beyond the forehead or not. Those with projecting jaw Eetzius called prog- nathous, and those not projecting he termed orthognathous. The distinc- tion is obvious and important: orthognathism is characteristic of civilized races, prognathism of savagery. Precision, however, demands that the elements on which the distinction depends be recognized. Prognathous dentition is the projection forwards of the teeth; and, in addition to this, deficiency of curvature of the base enters importantly into the produc- tion of prognathism by causing the floor of the anterior fossa of the base to rise in front, instead of being horizontal when the foramen magnum looks downwards. But a large angle between the front of the face and the floor of the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium (orbito- nasal angle) is neither characteristic of savagery nor of civilization; it is largest of all in the French, and also large in the Scotch, while the Germans and Irish have it remarkably small (Cleland, Phil. Trans., 1869). In the lower races, breadth from one zygoma to the other {malar breadth) often exceeds the greatest breadth of the cranium, but in civilized races never. Also in the lower races the position of greatest cranial breadth is liable to be situated not far below the parietal eminences, while in civilized races it is nearer the squamous suture, above or a little behind the ear. The aperture of the anterior nares varies in shape, being short and wide in the negro, long and narrow in the American Indian. In markedly prognathous skulls there is usually a subnascd depression beneath each nostril. The shortest base line from the back of the foramen magnum to the fronto-nasal suture, 5 inches and under, is found in the