THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. transverse incision is made across the line of the vessel. The vein lies behind the artery and in close proximity to it. The temporal artery may be secured immediately above the zygoma; the companion vein lies behind and overlaps it. The Subclavian Artery. The subclavian arteries (Figs. 317, 318, 327) of the opposite sides differ from one another in their origin. The left artery arises within the thorax from the transverse portion of the aorta and, passing upwards, enters the neck behind the left sterno-clavicular articulation; the vessel of the right side springs from the extremity of the innominate stem, opposite the right sterno- clavicular articulation. Each vessel passes outwards in the neck with an upward arch over the apex of the lung, and, crossing under the clavicle and over the first rib, enters the axilla. The arch formed by the subclavian artery in the neck is placed above the inner half of the clavicle, and its summit reaches about an inch above the upper border of the collar bone, the arm hanging by the side. In its passage outwards the artery passes behind the scalenus anticus muscle; for convenience of description it is divided into three parts, the first internal to the muscle, the second behind it, and the third between the outer border of the muscle and the outer margin of the first rib. The first part of the left subclavian, including, as it does, the thoracic portion of the vessel, is about an inch longer than that of the riojht side. The first part of the left subclavian artery. At its origin it lies a little behind and slightly to the left of the left common carotid artery, and the two vessels maintain their relative positions in their passage upwards to the neck. It lies behind but at some little distance from the left margin of the manubrium; the trachea lies to its right side; the oesophagus and the thoracic duct are behind it; and, on the left side and behind, it is covered by the pleura. In the neck it passes from behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular joint outwards and upwards to the margin of the scalenus anticus muscle. The trachea, the oesophagus, the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, at first, the thoracic duct, lie to its right side, but the duct, bending downwards and out- wards to reach the innominate vein, afterwards crosses in front of it; the trunk of the sympathetic nerve and the longus colli muscle lie behind; the pleura is in contact with it below. It is covered in front by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles. The subclavian and internal jugular veins unite in front of it to form the left innominate vein, and the vertebral vein descends to the innominate in front of it. The phrenic and some branches of the sympathetic nerves pass downwards into the thorax in front of it, and the pneumogastric nerve descends in front and a little to the right side. The first part of the right subclavian artery arches upwards and outwards from the extremity of the innominate stem, behind the upper part of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, to the margin of the scalenus anticus