THE EOOT PART OF THE CEREBRUM. 615 front of the optic thalamus so as to form an angle (genu), with the posterior limb directed forwards and inwards, and the anterior forwards and outwards. The nucleus lenticularis fills up the retreating angle opposite the genu of the internal capsule, and is connected in its whole length with the nucleus caudatus by streaks of grey matter, from which the corpus striatum takes its name; but it is connected with it most closely in front, where indeed the two nuclei become continuous. The nucleus lenticularis in frontal section is wedge-shaped, divided by two white lines into an outer, a middle and an inner stratum—the first (putamen) of a redder colour than the other two (globus pallidus). Outside the nucleus lenticularis there ascends a layer of white matter narrower than the internal capsule; it is called the external capsule, and contains fibres from the optic Corpus callosum. Fornix Choroid jjlexus of ) lateral ventricle j Choroid plexus of » third ventricle i Bundle of Vicq-d'Azj^r.. Anterior crus of fornix Mouth of infundibulum Lamina cinerea cut open Chiasma. Optic nerve. ^Lateral ventricle Nucleus caudatus Optic thalamus T0t^ Internal capsule 4.Insula ^i^S External capsule Nucleus lenticularis Claustrum Fig. 446.—Vertical Transverse Section in front of the lamina cinerea. thalamus and the anterior white commissure. It is rounded externally by the claustrum. The claustrum is a very thin sheet of grey matter intermediate in position between the nucleus lenticularis and the convolu- tions of the island of Reil, and broadening out in its lower and fore part so as to present a triangular form in frontal section. It has spindle- shaped corpuscles with yellow pigment, as has also the globus pallidus. Both nucleus lenticularis and claustrum are connected below with the superficial grey matter at the anterior perforated spot. V. WALLS AND SEPTA OF THE CEPvEBRAL VENTRICLES. The corpus callosum, or great commissure of the brain, is an arched structure consisting mainly of transversely-arranged white fibres, which join the two hemispheres together in the space left by the circuit of the falx cerebri for more than half their total length. It forms in this extent the floor of the great longitudinal fissure; it ends posteriori}^ in a thick-