460 THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. by the flexor tendons and the kimbricales, and, at its termination, by the adductor halhicis. It is accompanied b)^ two venae comites, and has in the first part of its course the external plantar nerve on its inner side. Its branches are numerous, the most important being the plantar digital arteries. Some calcaneal branches ramify upon the under surface of the os calcis, anastomosing with offsets of the posterior branch of the peroneal artery. Muscular branches supply the surrounding muscles, and detach cutaneous tuigs which appear along the line between the middle and outer portions of the plantar fascia. These branches form anastomotic connections at the outer border of the foot with oftsets of the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsal a^ter3^ Articular branches run backwards from the arch. The posterior perforating arteries, three in number, ascend through the proximal extremities of the three outer intermetatarsal spaces and join the dorsal interosseous arteries. The plantar digital arteries are four in number. The outermost passes forwards upon the flexor minimi digiti brevis and reaches the outer side of the fifth toe. The others, deeply placed, pass forwards upon the interosseous muscles of the three outer spaces, crossing above the trans- versus pedis muscle. Becoming superficial at the clefts of the toes, they communicate by means of the anterior perforating arteries with the dorsal interosseous arteries, and divide into collateral digital branches, the inner- most of which supplies the outer side of the second toe. The collateral digital branches pass forwards upon the sides of the toes, anastomosing freely with one another and with the dorsal digital arteries. The Internal Plantar Artery. The internal plantar artery (Fig. 350), much smaller than the external, takes origin with it from the termination of the posterior tibial. It passes forwards between the abductor hallucis and the flexor digitorum brevis. At the base of the great toe it terminates by inosculating with the arteria princeps hallucis, the innermost plantar digital artery. It gives off a number of muscular and cutaneous branches, the more important of which anastomose at the inner border of the foot with branches of the dorsal artery. One or two articular branches pass deeply into the sole, and two or three slender digital branches accompany the digital branches derived from the internal plantar nerve, and inosculate at the three inner clefts with the plantar digital arteries. Varieties of the arteries of the leg and foot. The anterior tibial artery is occasionally much reduced in size, and when this is the case it is usually reinforced or entirely replaced below by an enlarged anterior peroneal trunk. The posterior tibial artery is in like manner frequently muchi reduced or may be entirely deficient except in its lower part, and the!