638 THE BEAIN. The surface of the hemispheres in the third month exhibits a number of transitory fissures; and in the fourth and fifth months a certain number j of these are still seen lying transversely in the neighbourhood of the j upper and inner border, especially about the middle. It is especially noticeable that there are in the interior of the lateral ventricles of the young foetal brain elevations, the obverses of fissures, which do not occur later. The fornix owes its origin to a pair of cJioroidal fissures^ which at first are of the nature of other sulci; and although the nervous wall ! gives way, and the pia mater plunges into the ventricular space, it is to be recollected that the lining epithelium is not interrupted. Higher up than the choroidal fissure, while as yet there is no corpus callosum, an extensive longitudinal sulcus, fissura arcuata, begins in front of the olfactory ^ bulb, its obverse appearing as a great convexity on the mesial wall of the fore part of the lateral ventricle, and arching backwards. Its fore part persists as the callosal fissure, and its hinder part as the hippocampal and calcarine fissures, the latter being one of a series of radiating off*sets, the rest of which are transitory, with the exception of the occipito-parietal. The corpus callosum seems to begin in close connection with the anterior white commissure, but becomes separated from it and the adherent lateral halves of the fornix by a depression deepening backwards to form the fifth ventricle, which is ultimately closed off from the peripheral surface. ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE. The organs of common sensation, scattered over the body, and con- sisting of mere nerve-extremities and minute structures connected with them, have been relegated to General Anatomy (p. 78). The organs of special sense are of two very different kinds, the organ of taste being in no respect homologous with the others. Taste is dependent on nerve-terminations scattered over a portion of mucous membrane supplied with sensation by two pairs of cranial nerves, both of them distributed to other parts as well, and is only a function |j of the tongue, an organ belonging anatomically to the digestive system. i But the organs of smell, sight, and hearing are in many respects serially homologous structures. They are closely connected with three | pairs of outgrowths of the brain, viz., the olfactory bulbs, the primary optic vesicles and the flocculi. They each present an invagination of the cutaneous surface. Each has, closely connected with it, a communication between the mucous membrane and the surface of the body ; and, lastly, it may be added, though only as an opinion, that there is proof from comparative anatomy that their nerves emerge through openings in serially homologous elements of the cranium. The sense of smell, however, is in respect of simplicit}^, comparable ' with taste; while the appreciation of variations of light and sound ' necessitates much complexity in the eye and ear.