214 THE SKELETON. mesial bones, one in front of the other, each with a pair of wings spread- ing out in the cranial wall, and a pair of descending processes. Besides this, the parts called in human anatomy internal pterygoid processes remain in other animals separate throughout life as the pterygoid bones. Also, the parts called in man sphenoidal turbinated bones are in other animals absent altogether, being in fact elements intercalated between the lateral masses of the ethmoid and the vomer, bones always in other mammalia placed edge to edge, and usually early united to form one piece. The human sphenoid is described as consisting of a body and three pairs of processes, viz., the great alae and the orbital alae (both taking ^ ^ part in the wall of the cranial cavity), and the pterygoid processes, pro- jecting downwards, and consisting each of an external and an internal pterygoid plate. But in the child the constitu- tion of the sphenoid i& much better seen, and it can then be observed that Fig. 200.—Sphenoid AT Birth, f, from below. ^, Body and orbital infeiiorly the fore part wings left great wing not yet united to body, a, Orbital wing „f ^"Up Vinrlv la mfirVprl pierced by optic foramen ; 6, place of nnion of postsphenoid and pre- ^^^^ uuu^ Jb maiACU sphenoid; c, external pterygoid plate; internal pterygoid plate; ^ff ]-v-,r r, frnriQVPrcjp nntfli e, foramen ovale and foramen spinosum not completed. ans vei se nOLtll from the hinder part, and has a rounded outline filled with cancellated tissue; that the internal pterygoid plates, though adherent, are distinguishable in their whole original extent, and that a pair of hollow pyramids, the sphenoidal turbinated bones, lie on the sides of the fore part of the body, and have as yet no adhesion to the sphenoid. The body is indistinguishably united to the basilar process of the occipital after the twentieth year. Its upper surface slopes upwards from behind, forming along with the basilar process of the occipital a con- tinuous plane, the clivus, which terminates in front in a thin plate, the dorsum sellae, forming the posterior limit of a deep depression, the sella turcica, ephippium or pituitary fossa, which is occupied by the pituitary body. In front of the pituitary fossa is .the olivary eminence, a transversely oval surface separated from it by a line, and in front of the olivary eminence the level orbital wings meet in the middle line at a slightly higher level. The dorsum sellae is thick and irregular at its summit, and has projecting angles called posterior clinoid processes. The olivary eminence slopes at each side into a foramen directed forwards and outwards into the orbit, the foramen opticum; and on it rests the optic commissure, from which the optic nerve on each side passes out-