THE SKELETON. 124 Fig. 132.—Ligamentum Nuchae with its attachments to the cervi ■cal vertebrae and occipital bone. logous with the important yellow-elastic ligamentum nuchae by which, in the horse and other animals, the head is kept without muscular effort from hanging too low down. The interspinous ligaments are unimportant septa between the spines; and still less im- portant are the scattered fibres called intertrans- verse ligaments, found in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The sacro-coccygeal and the coccygeal ligaments are dwindled representatives of intervertebral discs, anterior and posterior common ligament, and joints of articular processes, and require no special description. The atlas • and axis are united to one another and to the occipital bone by joints and ligaments differing from those of the rest of the column. The synovial articulations between the atlas and occipital condyles, and those between the inferior articular surfaces of the atlas and superior articular surfaces of the axis are surrounded by fibrous capsules, and the capsule of each of the latter joints is strengthened at the inner part of its posterior aspect by a strong accessory ligament. The articulation between the odontoid process of the axis and the anterior arch of the atlas has no fibrous capsule. The long occi-pito-axial ligament,'^ already alluded to in connection with the posterior common ligament, prolongs that ligament from the back of the body of the axis to the basilar process of the occipital bone. The transverse ligament of the atlas, in front of the long occipito-axial ligament and concealed by it, is attached on each side to the rough surface on the inner side of the lateral mass, and separates from the proper ring of the atlas an anterior compartment in which the odontoid process is grasped. At its attachments its fibres are gathered together, while in the middle it is pushed back by the odontoid process and is flattened out. From this middle part a short and thin band passes down to the body of the axis, and a longer and slenderer band passes up to the front of the foramen magnum; these are termed the superior and inferior appendages, and together with the transverse ligament form the ■cruciform ligament. The Icdercd odontoid or check ligaments are a pair of very strong rounded bands, extending from the rough sides of the head of the odontoid process outwards to the rough surfaces inside the occipital condyles. Some of ^ Known also as pofiterior occipito-axial ligament, apparatus Ugamentosus, ligamentum latum epistrophei, and catalogued by the German committee among the ligaments of the atlanto-epistrophic articulation as memhrana tectoria.