THE NERVES. 512 double; its branches form connections with those of the great occipital, great auricular, and posterior auricular nerves. The great auricular nerve springs from the second and third nerves, and emerges from the cover of the sterno-mastoid immediately below the small occipital nerve. Crossing the muscle obliquely it passes upwards and a little forwards, under cover of the platysma, towards the region of the ear, beneath which it divides into mastoid^ facial, and auricular branches. { To rectus capitis lateralis To rectus capitis anticus minor- Small occipital Great auricular Supra-acromial Supraclavicular Communicating branch to sympathetic Superiicial cervical ^ To stevno-mastoid Communicating branch to pneumogastric j Communicating branch ( to hypoglossal / Communicating branch \ to sympathetic / Communicating branch \ to sympathetic ( Communicating branch ( to sympathetic Coramunicantes hypoglossi To trapezius Phrenic Suprasternal Fig. 378.—Diagram of the Cervical Plexus, a, b, c, To rectus capitis anticns major, longus colli, and intertransversales ; d, e, to scalenus medius, and levator anguli scapulae. (J. Y. M.) These supply the integument covering the mastoid process, the parotid region of the face, the inner surface of the pinna, and partly also, by means of slender perforating twigs, the outer surface of the pinna. The branches form connections with those of the small occipital and facial nerves. The superficial cervical nerve, from the second and third nerves, emerges below the great auricular, and, passing forwards under cover of the platysma, breaks up into numerous branches, which supply the skin of the front of the whole length of the neck. Two or three of the upper branches are connected with those of the inframaxillary branch of the facial nerve, forming loops of considerable size. The descending branches, variable in number, spring from the third and fourth nerves, and descend under cover of the platysma; near the clavicle they break up into sup-asternal, supraclavicular, and supra-acromial terminal twigs. They supply the lower and lateral regions of the neck,