THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 486 It receives numerous superficial tributaries from the outer side of the foot, and from the outer and posterior region of the leg, and a number of communicating branches from the deep veins. Near its termination a communicating branch, sometimes so enlarged as to form the main con- tinuation of the vein, ascends on the back of the thigh to join the internal saphenous vein. The internal saphenous vein (Figs. 364, 371), from the inner extremity of the dorsal arch, passes in front of the internal malleolus, and ascends along the inner side of the leg; it bends backwards behind the inner condyle of the femur, and, finally, passes upwards upon the front of the thigh as far as the lower part of the saphenous opening where, about an inch and a half from Poupart's ligament, it falls into the femoral vein. It receives communicating branches from the plantar veins, the anterior and posterior tibial veins, and the deep veins of the thigh. Its tributaries are derived from the inner side of the foot, the inner and anterior region of the leg, the thigh, and the lower part of the abdominal wall. Very frequently a vessel of considerable size joins it near its termination, ascending for some distance in front of the femoral artery in the lower part of Scarpa's triangle. Deep veins of the lower limb. With the exception of the femoral, the deep femoral, and the popliteal, all the arteries of the lower limb are accom- panied by two companion veins. The popliteal vein is formed at the lower border of the popliteus muscle by the union with one another of the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. At the lower part of the space the vein is internal to the artery, but as it ascends it crosses the artery posteriorly and becomes a little external to it above. Frequently the popliteal vein is double in the lower part of the space, and occasionally in its whole course. The femoral vein, in Hunter's canal, lies behind and a little external to the artery; at the apex of Scarpa's triangle it is posterior to the artery; higher up it gains the inner side of the artery, and in this position passes behind Poupart's ligament to be continued into the external iliac vein. In addition to tributaries which correspond to the branches of the artery, it receives the internal saphenous vein. The superficial circum- flex iliac, superficial epigastric, and superficial pudic veins join the internal saphenous vein. The deep femoral vein ascends in front of the deep femoral artery, and falls into the femoral vein in the upper part of Scarpa's triangle. The Development of the Heart. The heart in man, and in mammals generally, makes its first appearance in the form of two tubes hollowed out of the splanchnic mesoblast on the ventral aspect of the ahmentary canal, in the region of the head. Each tube is formed of a somewhat thickened outer wall of mesoblastic tissue, which becomes the muscular wall of the heart, and a delicate endo-