MUSCLES OF UPPER LIMB. 25.3 superficial fascia of the eyelids, the penis and scrotum there is no fat; in that of the buttocks and abdominal wall the layer of fat, especially in females, is often of considerable thickness. The superficial fascia is continuous all over the surface of the body; the details of its arrangement in one or two regions, the lower part of abdominal wall, the upper part of the thigh, etc., are of surgical importance, and will be specially described along with those of the muscles and the deep fascia. The deep fascia covers the muscles superficially, and sends processes and septa between them; it varies much in strength and consistence in the diff'erent regions of the body, and often affords a surface of origin or insertion to muscular fibres. When much strengthened, it becomes aponeurotic in its nature. It will be specially described along with the muscles in each region. In many places in the body there are in the tissue spaces which are lined by synovial membrane; these are termed hursae. They usually serve to facilitate the gliding of muscles or tendons over prominent surfaces of bone; bursae are also found in the sub- cutaneous tissue between the skin and the more prominent structures beneath it. Tendons which are passing over pulleys or through narrow canals are usually surrounded by delicate connective tissue sheaths, which are lined by synovial membrane, and are i^vmedi 'synovial sheaths. MUSCLES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. MUSCLES CONNECTING THE LIMB WITH THE TRUNK. These muscles may be arranged in a posterior and an anterior group. Those of the posterior group are the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, levator anguli scapulae, and the rhomboidei; those of the anterior group are the pectoralis major, the pectoralis minor, the serratus magnus, and the subclavius. The trapezius arises from the tips of the spines and the supraspinous ligament of all the dorsal and the seventh cervical vertebrae, the ligamentum nuchae, the external occipital protuberance, and the posterior third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Its fibres converging are inserted into the posterior border of the outer third of the clavicle, the inner edge of the acromion, and the upper edge of the spine of the scapula. The origin and insertion take place for the most part by short tendinous fibres; of the fibres of origin those arising from the seventh cervical spine and for a little distance above and below that point are slightly longer than the others. The connection with the occipital bone is aponeurotic in character. The lowest fibres of insertion form a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the base of the scapular spine, a bursa being occasionally interposed. The muscle covers portions of the latissimus dorsi, infraspinatus, and rhomboideus major muscles, and conceals the rhomboideus minor, levator