THE MUSCLES. 380 the inner lip of the iliac crest for about an inch beyond the attachment of the ligament. The outermost fibres are directed upwards and slightly inwards to the lower edge of the last rib, and those more internal, passing with more and more obliquity, are inserted into the transverse processes of the first four lumbar vertebrae. An additional set of fibres at the inner edge and on the anterior surface of the muscle springs from the transverse processes of the three lower lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted with the outer part of the muscle into the last rib and first lumbar transverse process. The rectus abdominis, strap-shaped, springs from the anterior surfice and the upper border of the body of the pubic bone by a strong tendon partially divided into two. The inner portion of the tendon arises from the whole anterior surface of the symphysis, and is at its inner edge continuous with the corresponding tendon of the muscle of the opposite side; the outer portion is attached to the crest. At the upper end the muscle is inserted by three slips, the outermost to the lower border of the fifth rib immediately external to the cartilage, the other two to the anterior surfaces of the cartilages of the sixth and seventh ribs respectively. In the course of the muscle three tendinous intersections are commonly found; the first is usually placed opposite the articulation between the ninth and tenth costal cartilages, the second about an inch above the umbilicus, and the third about half an inch below the umbilicus. These do not as a rule penetrate the whole thickness of the muscular substance, but are confined to the anterior surface, and are intimately adherent to the anterior wall of the sheath. They may extend beyond the rectus into the substance of the internal oblique, and they occasionally appear to be continued from the extremities of some of the lower ribs. Additional ones are sometimes present. The pyramidalis is a small triangular muscle, of an inch to two inches in length, contained in the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus. It arises from the anterior surface of the pubis, and, becoming narrower as it ascends, is inserted into the linea alba. The muscle is frequently absent on one or both sides. The sheath of the rectus. Close to the margin of the rectus the aponeurosis of insertion of the internal oblique splits into two layers, the anterior of which blends with the aponeurosis of the external oblique, the posterior with that of the transversalis. These pass to the linea alba, inclosing the rectus between them. The anterior wall of the sheath, moderately strong in the greater part of its extent, becomes thinner above where it is continued into the deep fascia of the chest wall; some fibres of the pectoralis major spring from it. At its lower end the pyramidalis is embedded in it. On its posterior aspect it is closely united to the tendinous intersections of the rectus muscle. The posterior wall of the sheath is strong in its upper two-thirds, .and is fixed above to the margins of the cartilages of the sixth, seventh.