GENEEAL ANATOMY. 98 pouch projects from the brain, so as to lie ultimately behind the epiblastic pouch; and these two pouches together form the pituitary body. The stomodaeum and the heart become separated, and a series of five arches of mesoblast, commencing as lateral thickenings and becoming completed in the middle line, make their appearance between. These are known as the visceral or post-stomal arches, and appear in pairs, the nearest to the head being first and largest, and completing before the others the arch by union of the right and left process. This first arch is called mandibular, and constitutes the part of the face in which the lower jaw appears. The second is the hyoid, and to it belong the body and small cornu of the hyoid bone. To the third belong the great cornua of the hyoid bone, while the fourth and fifth are, in birds and mammals, small and unimportant. Between the arches are the four visceral clefts, in which the mesoblast is absent, and the epiblast and hypoblast come in contact, partly by dipping in of the epiblast, but still more by lateral pouching of the hypoblast. In water-breathing animals, the communication of the pharynx with the integument is completed by rupture of these layers, and the slits so formed remain as gill slits. In some fishes the number of visceral arches is greater than five, while the mandibular is always the foremost. In the higher vertebrates the number of visceral arches is always five, and the clefts are unperforated ; but a congenital fistula-like opening into the pharynx from behind the jaw occurs as a rare abnor- mality, and is to be accounted for by permanent perforation of the second, third, or fourth cleft. The first cleft forms from its hypoblastic part the Eustachian tube and tympanic cavity, and by the dorsal end of its epiblastic depression the external auditory meatus. In connection with the ear, there is already, at a date prior to the appearance of the visceral arches, another opening to be seen, the auditory pit, situated at the side of the third cerebral vesicle; it becomes shut off" from the integument at a point opposite the base of the second visceral arch, and forms the auditory vesicle destined to be developed into the internal ear. So also the olfactory pit is an epiblastic depression on the under surface of the first cerebral vesicle, not to be confounded with the nostril; and the crystalline lens of the eyeball is formed from a similar invagination converted into a closed vesicle. Dipping down in front of the first cerebral vesicle and the optic vesicles the fronto-nasal process is projected, which has on each side a lobe called lateral nasal process, and in front a pair of lobes called middle nasal processes, while a notch is left on each side between middle and lateral nasal processes for the nostril. The middle nasal processes unite to form the columella of the nose, the mesial groove of the lip, and, by a pair of globular tubercles at their extremity, the intermaxillary part of the palate; while at their united base the septum of the nose, with a free inferior margin, projects into the roof of the mouth. Both lateral and middle nasal processes are met at the side by another process, the maxillary