643 THE EYE. The eyeballs are surrounded by muscles already described (p. 334), which come into use by turning the antero-posterior diameters or axes of vision of the two eyeballs on one object, either directly in front, or above, below or toward one side. In addition to all these structures there are others in front of the eyeballs, viz., the eyebrows, eyelids, conjunctiva and lachrymal apparatus, collectively termed hitainina oeuli, as affording protec- tion from glare and from violence, and preserving the necessary transparency of the surface which admits the light. TUTAMINA. Tlie eyebrows can scarcely be considered important for the protection of the eyes, but they are present in all races of men and represented among animals, and peculiarities presented by them are frequently trans- mitted hereditarily. It may be noted that they consist each of an outer and an inner portion, which do not always exactly meet, end to end. The eyelids have the integument thin, and the subcutaneous connective tissue loose and devoid of fat, enabling them to be separated easily. Beneath the subcutaneous connective tissue is a thin sheet of muscular fibres belonging to the orbicularis palpebrarum ; and between this and the mucous membrane or conjunctiva of each lid, the margin is made stiff by the tarsus. The tarsi, or tarsal ])lates, have a cartilaginous density, but are really two fibro-plates composed of felted tissue; that of the lower eyelid is a narrow linear strip, while that of the upper lid is crescentic, fully quarter of an inch deep in the middle, and can easily be brought into view in outline in the living subject, as by its stiffness and definite upper margin it enables the lid to be everted by the surgeon. To its upper margin is attached the tendon of the levator palpebrae muscle. Both tarsi are attached at the inner extremity to the tendo palpebrarum (p. 330). In both eyelids unstriped muscular fibres extend in a thin sheet towards the orbit from the deep margin of the tarsus (H. Miiller'a muscle). The extremities of the aperture between the eyelids are termed the outer and inner canthi. The outer canthus is a simple angular junction of the lids, but the inner canthus is a rounded recess floored by a pink and spongy carinicula, and with margins each of which joins the margin of the corresponding lid at a projecting angle. These projections are the upper and lower papilla lachrymalis; and each of them presents an orifice, punctum lachnjntale, directed backwards towards the eye. Along their free margins, external to the puncta lachrymalia, the eyelids are furnished with eyelashes. The eyelashes (cilia) are in healthy individuals curved, with their convexities toward the opposed range, and are larger in the upper than in the lower lid, and twice as numerous. Tubular modified sweat glands lie in a row behind the roots of the lashes and open in connection with their follicles. But much larger and obvious to the naked eye are the Meibomian follicles whose orifices lie in a single row