GENERAL ANATOMY. 60 asunder the muscular bundles and ruptures both the middle and internal coat; both coats are retracted by elasticity, while, in the living subject, the muscular fibres contract, diminishing the calibre of the vessel above the ligature, and exposing the ruptured edge to the blood so as to induce coagulation. Superficial to the circular muscular fibres there occur in some exceptional arteries scattered longitudinal fibres in the deep part of the tunica adventitia. This has been specially noticed in the splenic, mesenteric, renal, uterine and spermatic arteries, and those of the penis. Also, longitudinal fibres are noted by Bardeleben at the inner boundary of the tunica media in all the larger arteries. The tunica intima is brittle, thin, and transparent, and may be torn off in shreds. It consists of three layers, viz., (1) a layer of endothelium, the cells of which are mostly elongated in the direction of the vessel; Fig. 56.—Section of Artery, -^-^ inch wide, showing the dense muscular tunica Fig. 57.—J, fenestrated membrane of tunica intima ; B, mus- media, with tunica adventitia around it, cular fibres of tunica media adherent to tunica intima; C,.par- and the clear crenated tunica intima tially isolated endothelial cells. (Toldt.) within. (2) a very delicate layer of branched corpuscles in homogeneous matrix, important to the pathologist as being the seat of the changes which lead to aneurism and calcification ; (3) an elastic membrane marked with lines as of separate fibres, and frequently showing perforations, the fenestrated menihrane of Henle. Arteries, as a general rule, divide dichotomously and give off" smaller branches in their course. The coeliac and the thyroid axis are examples of trunks terminating at once in three. In various animals an artery breaks up suddenly into a number of minute trunks which are afterwards gathered together again, and this is termed a rete miraUle. Such an arrangement is found at the base of the skull of the sheep, in various parts of the bodies of ant-eaters, in the legs of running birds, and in other animals; but the only thing of the sort in the human subject is on a minute scale and common to man and other animals, the glomeruli of the kidneys.