MUSCLES OF UPPEE LIMB. 251 THE MUSCLES. The tissue of the voluntary muscles forms the red flesh of the body. It is composed of fibres which are collected into bundles surrounded by delicate sheaths of connective substance; the bundles of fibres are aggregated together into masses which are more or less distinctly separated from one another by the investing fibrous tissue, and constitute the individual muscles. Among the muscles there is much variety of form ; some are broad expanded sheets, others are compact and rounded, and there are many varieties of shape. A muscle is an elastic organ which possesses the power of contraction, and each individual muscle has definite connections or attachments. Certain muscles form ring-like bands which surround the margins of openings; they are named sphincters ; by their elasticity they oppose the dilatation of, and by their con- tractility they diminish or close the apertures which they encircle. Others, entering into the construction of curved walls, by their elasticity offer opposition to forces which tend to increase the curvature of the surfaces which they cover; contracting, they flatten out the curves and remove or produce pressure. The diaphragm, the broad muscles of the abdomen, and possibly also the platysma myoides, off'er examples of this type of muscle. Most of the muscles are more or less strap-shaped. The great majority are attached at both their extremities to portions of the bony or cartilaginous framework and cross over joints; contracting, they produce movements at the joints; by their elasticity they assist in maintaining the bones in apposition, and resist movement. They are arranged in groups which oppose and balance one another, and the deeper members of a group are usually short, and as a general rule stretch over one joint only, while the more superficial are long, and may cross, over two or more joints. In the various movements of the body every variety of lever is employed, and the same muscle may be used in different actions to move different orders of levers, according as a part is free to move or is made to serve as a fulcrum. The methods of attachment of the muscles to the bones are various. Some muscles spring directly by fleshy fibres, others indirectly by means of tendons, which may either be compact structures presenting the characteristic peculiarities of tendinous texture, or expanded membran- ously as ajjoneuroses. Of the two attachments of a muscle, that which in the usual movements which the muscle subserves is the fixed point is commonly called the origin, while the other is the insertion; but on account of the numerous and varied kinds of bodily movements in which any individual muscle may take part, it is impossible to apply the terms with scientific accuracy, and they are used, to a large extent, in an arbitrary fashion for convenience of description. Muscles differ from one another in the number, length and direction