175 THE TIBIA. Also, it is worthy of note that in front of the external tuberosity, between the tip of the area for the tibialis anticus and the inner condylar surface, there is a constant fine-grained impression connected with the insertion of the band of fascia lata continued down from the tensor fasciae femoris, and running back from this a horizontal groove close to the condylar surface. In front, at a lower level than the outer and inner tuberosity, there is a thick projection, the tuherde or anterior tuberosity, smooth in its upper part where a bursa is placed, and rough below, where it gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The shaft is three-sided and tapering in the greater part of its length, but toward the lower end it loses the three-sided form and slightly increases in size. An inner border, rounded above and below and more distinct in the middle, separates the internal from the posterior surface; the sharp anterior border or crest separating the external from the internal surface descends from the outer side of the tubercle, and is smoothed away in the lower fourth of the shaft; while the outer border, giving attachment to the interosseous membrane between the tibia and fibula and separating the external from the posterior surface, passes down from the articular surface for the head of the fibula to a rough area looking outwards, on which that bone rests at the lower end. Thus, the external surface, looking forwards and outwards in its upper three-fourths, is turned so as to look forwards below : in its upper two-thirds it is transversely concave, and gives origin to the tibialis anticus. The internal surface is subcutaneous; at its upper part it presents a rough area outside the tubercle, where the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles are inserted one over another, and behind this a more distinct and elongated roughness where the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint is inserted. The posterior surface is crossed above by a strongly marked oblique line running downwards and inwards from the articular surface for the fibula and marking the attachment of the soleus muscle. The triangular area above this line gives origin to the popliteus muscle, and a smooth longitudinal ridge descending a short distance below it separates an outer area giving origin to the tibialis posticus from a larger area to which the extensor longus digitorum is attached. On the outer side of this line is situated the artericd foramen for the medullary vessels, sloping downwards into the bone, and remarkable as the largest foramen of the sort in the body. The lower extremity is somewhat broadened out and has projecting downwards on its inner side a stout process, the internal malleolus, while externally it presents a surface concave from before backwards, against which lies the lower end of the shaft of the fibula. The articular surface for the astragalus has its principal part directed downwards, quadrilateral in shape and broader in front than behind, concave from before backwards, slightly bevelled at the outer side, and with the posterior edge projecting downwards. On the inner side a continuation of the same articular