627 THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. fissure between the main gyrus and tlie uncus corresponds with the pes hippocampi, and is continuous with the sulcus hippocampi, the obverse of the hippocampus major. The sulcus hippocampi separates the inner margin of the gyrus hippocampi from the gyrus dentatus (fascia dentata), a thin streak of grey matter indented by small bloodvessels, and intervening between the gyrus hippocampi and the fimbria. Resting on the anterior fossa basis cranii are the orbital convolutions and sulci, constituting the orbital lobe (Gratiolet). Parallel to the great longitudinal fissure there is a constant sulcus against which the olfactory tract and bulb lie, the olfactory sulcus, with the gyrus rectus on its inner side; and in the middle of the surface external to it there is a sulcus with three ramifying branches, triradiate sulcus (Turner). The convolu- tions separated by the three branches have been variously described and are subject to much variation, but may be best distinguished as the external and internal orbital, more or less sagittal, and the posterior orbital, transverse in direction. Structure. A vertical section through the cortical substance of the hemisphere in the unaltered condition shows everywhere a division into a superficial reddish-grey stratum and a deeper stratum of colder grey tint, separated from the other by a thin whiter line, the pirimary pale band. In some parts of the hemisphere a deeper pale band can be easily seen, which does not, however, arise from additional complexity, but rather the reverse; and it is noteworthy that in the occipital lobe, where the deeper or second pale band is best seen, the total depth of cortical substance is least. Beginning at the pia-matral surface, there is found most superficially, in some parts, a certain number of medullated fibres; and these are so numerous on the gyrus hippocampi as to give a visible milky covering called reticulated white substance, while in other places they are altogether absent. They may be counted as belonging to the most superficial layer everywhere present, the superficial molecular layer, in which there are numerous neuroglial spider-cells, and great numbers of exceedingly fine nerve-fibres of two sets, one Superior temporal gyrus Fimbria Fig. 455.—Eight Hippocampus Major removed with temporo-sphenoidal lobe.