326 THE MUSCLES. the fibula and the posterior border of the tibia, separates the deep from the superficial group, and covers the vessels and nerve. The fascia, affords attachment on its deep surface and its septa to many of the- muscles of the leg. The anterior annular ligament is formed by a thickening of the fascia at the level of the ankle-joint. It is shaped like the letter Y laid upon its side, the outer part representing the base of the letter, the inner portions the limbs. The outer part of the ligament forms a strong loop through which, wrapped in a common synovial sheath, the tendons of the long extensor of the toes and that of the peroneus terbius pass. The loop is attached externally to the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the interosseous ligament, but some of its fibres are continuous with the lower part of the external annular ligament. From the inner extremity of the loop the limbs of the Y pass inwards. The upper, which is the stronger, is attached to the internal malleolus; the lower, passing over the border of the dorsum of the foot, becomes continuous with the lower part of the internal annular ligament. The tendons of the extensor of the great toe and the tibialis anticus pass, each surrounded by its- own synovial sheath, in separate compartments, the former behind both bands, the latter through the upper and behind the lower. The anterior tibial artery and nerve sometimes accompany the tendon of the extensor of the great toe, but occasionally occupy a special fibrous and synovial sheath. A somewhat thickened band of fascia in the lower part of the leg, lying immediately above the anterior annular ligament, is sometimes described along with it. The synovial sheath of the tibialis anticus. extends upwards behind this band. The internal annular ligament is a thickened band of fascia, with ill- defined edges, stretching downwards and backwards from the internal malleolus to the inner margin of the tuberosity of the os calcis. Its lower part is continuous with the lower band of the anterior annular ligament, and gives origin to a large portion of the abductor hallucis muscle. On its deep surface pass, in separate sheaths, each lined by synovial membrane, the tendons of the tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum longus, and flexor hallucis longus. The sheaths of the two first men- tioned lie close together, and occasionally communicate; the posterior tibial vessels and nerve occupy a sheath between the second and thirds but lie in a plane slightly more superficial than that of the tendons. The external annular ligament, from the point of the external malleolus, extends downwards and backwards to the lower portion of the outer surface of the calcaneum. The ligament covers the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis, which, as they pass forwards on its deep surface, occupy a common synovial sheath. Continuous with the anterior margin of the ligament and with the outer extremity of the anterior annular ligament a couple of fibrous loops surround and separate from one another the twa tendons.