THE MUSCLES. 870 margins of the opening are formed by the tendinous fibres of each crus, and posteriorly a few fibres cross between the crura behind the aorta. A little above, and somewhat to the left of the aortic opening, is an aperture for the passage of the oesophagus and the pneumogastric nerves. The aperture is elongated from before backwards, and is usually entirely pounded by the decussating fleshy fibres from the pillars, those from the right passing generally in front of those from the left. In addition, the vertebral portions of the diaphragm are generally pierced by the splanchnic nerves, the lesser azygos vein, and, occasionally, by the main cords of the sympathetic. The ligamenta arcuata are thickened bands of the fascia lining the abdominal wall. The internal stretches from the body to the tranverse process of the first lumbar vertebra arching over the psoas muscle; the external extends from the first lumbar transverse process to the last rib, near its point, arching over the quadratus lumborum muscle. The fibres from these bands, forming on each side a broad thin portion of the muscle, pass to the posterior margins of the lateral leaflets of the tendon. The sympathetic cord usually passes under the internal, and the last dorsal nerve under the external arched ligament. The costal portion of the muscle springs on each side by six fleshy slips from the inner surfaces' of the six lower ribs, chiefly from the cartilages, but to a slight extent also from the bones. The slips inter digitate with the slips of the transversalis abdominis muscle. The muscular fibres arch upwards to the lateral and anterior margins of the central tendon, those from the eighth and ninth ribs being the longest. The sternal portion is formed by a slender fasciculus, sometimes divided into two, the fibres of which are the shortest of the whole muscle. It passes from the back of the ensiform process to the anterior margin of the central leaflet. Between the sternal and costal portions an interval is left on each side, through which the superior epigastric artery passes from the thoracic to the abdominal wall, and at which the lining mem- branes of the two cavities come into contact. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves from the cervical plexus. The triangularis sterni (transversus thoracis) is formed of a number of delicate slips in series with those of the transversalis abdominis muscle. It arises on each side from the back of the lower part of the sternum, extending upwards in its origin as far as the level of the third costal cartilage. The slips are inserted into the lower edges and posterior surfaces of the costal cartilages from the second to the sixth, the highest, however, having a partial attachment to the bony rib. The upper slips are almost vertical in direction, the lower transverse. The muscle lies behind the internal mammary artery in a portion of its course. It is very variable in size and is sometimes absent altogether. The triangularis receives its supply from intercostal nerves.