181 THE TAESUS. of an arch. On the inner side, a tuberosity projects downwards which receives the main insertion of the tibialis posticus tendon. On the ■outer side there is sometimes a small facet for articulation with the cuboid bone. The internal cuneiform bone is, as the name implies, wedge-shaped; the base of the wedge being directed downwards, forming a thick tuberosity placed in front of the tuberosity of the scaphoid, and curved somewhat into the sole, below the sharp apices of the middle and outer cuneiform bones. The outer surface, in its hinder two-thirds, lies inside the middle cuneiform, with which it articulates above and behind by means of an L-shaped surface, while further forwards it fits against the second meta- tarsal and articulates Avith it by a facet at the end of the L-shaped surface. Fig. 177.—The Three Cuneiforms of Left Side. A, From the front and outer side. B, From the hinder and inner aspect. The upper margin is sharp and directed upwards and outwards, as well as forwards, where in contact with the middle cuneiform ; but in front of this is prolonged straight forwards and becomes more rounded. The posterior surface, articulating with the scaphoid, is concave and much shorter than the fiat anterior surface for articulation with the first metatarsal. On the inner side there is an oblic^ue depression, leading to a distinct mark at the lower and fore jmrt, where the tendon of the tibialis anticus is mainly inserted. The middle cuneiform bone is the smallest of the three cuneiforms, neither reaching so far forwards nor so far down as the others. Its dorsal surface is quadrate, little longer than broad. The posterior surface, articulating with the scaphoid, is slightly concave, and broader than the flat anterior surface for articulation with the second metatarsal. Internally it has an L-shaped surface, corresponding with that on the internal cuneiform, while externally there is a narrow articular surface along the posterior edge to articulate Avith the external cuneiform.