THE SKELETON. 150 origin to the abductor indicis. The base presents a saddle-shaped surface convex from side to side, and concave from before backwards for articulation with the trapezium. The Phalanges. The phalanges are fourteen in number, three for each finger and two for the thumb. They are everywhere broader from side to side than from before backwards. The five proximal or metacarpal phalanges are thickest at their bases^ which articulate each by a shallow concave surface with the metacarpal bone which supports it. The shaft of each has an anterior surface longitudinally concave, flat from side to side, and separated by rough lateral ridges for the sheaths of the flexor tendons from the posterior surface, which is convex in both directions and sm.ooth. The distal end^ scarcely wider than the shaft, has a convex articular surface with a trochlear groove. The intermediate four phalanges, or second row of the fingers, are immediately distinguished from proximal phalanges by the presence of a little antero-posterior ridge on the basal articular surface, separating two slight concavities and fitting into the trochlear groove on the phalanx above. The distal, ungual or terminal phalanges have basal articular surfaces similar to intermediate phalanges of the fingers. Beyond the base they suddenly narrow, and they are crowned by a rough ridge at the free end. Posteriorly they are smooth, but in front present two roughnesses, one continuous with the terminal ridge, the other in front of the base and giving attachment to a flexor tendon. The phalanges of the middle finger are longer than those of the other three; those of the forefinger are shorter than those of the ring finger. The distal phalanx of the thumb is the largest of all the distal phalanges, and its proximal phalanx is distinguished by its breadth. A pair of sesamoid bones is found on the flexor side of the metacarpo- phalangeal joint of the thumb, and occasionally others occur in the cor- responding joint of one or more of the other digits. ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The Shoulder-Girdle. The sterno-clavicular articulation has two synovial cavities separated by an interarticular fibro-plate, and is surrounded by a dense capsule whose fibres are directed upwards and outwards; those in front and behind being termed the anterior and posterior ligaments, while two additional bands, the interclavicular and the costo-clavicular, strengthen it on the inner and outer aspects. The interclavicular ligament consists of fibres associated with the capsule^