620 THE BRAIN. A pair of small vascular fringes, the choroid ^plexuses of the third ventricle, dip down from the velum interpositum near the middle line, and the ciliated epithelial lining of the third ventricle is reflected over them and extends downwards on the inner surfaces of the optic thalami. The ciliated epithelium is in like manner continued from the upper or ven- tricular surface of the fornix and taenia hippocampi over the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles on to the exposed parts of the upper surface of the optic thalami and the walls of the descending coruua of the lateral ventricles. There is, however, left at one place a communication between the third and the two lateral ventricles, the foramen of Monro. This aperture is formed by the anterior angle of the body of the fornix, with the front of the velum interpositum adherent to it, arching over and between the anterior extremities of the furrows of the right and left taenia semicircularis before it dips down in the form of two pillars. Thus, the foramen of Monro is a Y-shaped communication, single below and double above, between the third ventricle and the two lateral ventricles. ,( The third ventricle is limited behind by the pineal recess, the posterior white commissure and the anterior opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. Its lateral walls are formed by the opposed grey surfaces of the optic thalami, which are most frequently united to a certain extent in the form of a grey commissure. The floor deepens from behind forwards and presents pretty well forwards an opening leading into the infundibulum, and, quite in front, the optic recess. The anterior wall prevents the pillars of the fornix descending with the anterior white commissure between and in front of them. The roof is formed by velum interpositum and choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, and its communication with the lateral ventricles by means of the foramen of Monro, is in front. The lateral ventricles are the adult condition of the original hollows of the hemisphere-vesicles. They diff"er from the other ventricles in being surrounded by white substance save where the caudate nuclei of the corpora striata are exposed. From before backwards and inwards there are seen, in the floor of each, corpus striatum, stria terminalis, anterior tubercle of optic thalamus, choroid plexus, and half of the body of the fornix. Each has three cornua. The anterior cornu is a short and rounded cul-de-sac projecting into the anterior lobe of the hemisphere, in front of the corpus striatum. The posterior cornu is a longer cul-de-sac stretching backwards in the posterior lobe, curved and pointed, the convexity outwards and the point inclined inwards. It presents a convexity of its floor to the inner side, which is named hippocamjms minor, and is the obverse convexity corresponding to a sulcus (named calcarine) on the mesial surface of the hemisphere. The remaining cornu, the lateral or descending, is longest of all, and is not a cul-de-sac like the others, inasmuch as its nervous walls present in the whole length a breach of continuity, the lateral part of the transverse fissure. It takes a downward spiral direction round the crus cerebri, being at first directed backwards, then outwards and forwards.