THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 752 simple ciliated columnar epithelium becomes exchanged for small non- ciliated squamous cells similar to those on the edges of the alveoli. Vessels and nerves. The pulmonary artery is distributed to the lungs, supplying them with the dark blood which it is their office to purify from carbonic acid and replenish with oxygen. The branches of the pulmonary artery end altogether in the capillary network already de- scribed as surrounding the air-cells; and the purified blood is returned to the heart by the pulmonary veins, an upper and a lower from each lung. The superior pulmonary vein comes from the upper lobe, lying in front of the stems of artery and bronchial tube. The inferior pulmonary vein ascends on the inner side of the bronchus and its continuation; while the corresponding branch of the pulmonary artery descends external to them. The nutrition of the lungs is effected by means of the hronchial arteries, small vessels from one to three in number for each lung, arising irregularly from the aorta or intercostal arteries. They receive their name from being distributed mainly along by the course of the bronchial tubes, and as they supply the bronchial mucous membrane, as well as the other textures, their capillaries communicate with those of the pulmonary artery when the smaller tubes are reached. But they also furnish superficial branches by which the pleura gets a vascular supply independent of the lungs. The bronchial veins, which have likewise superficial and deep branches, fall into the azygos veins. The lymphatics of the lung are deep and superficial, and the superficial lymphatics form a network with larger meshes and vessels than are found on any other viscus. The nerves, the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They follow the bronchial tubes and have minute ganglia. Fig. 587.—Embryonic Human Lungs. (Hertwig, after His.) Development of respiratory organs. The deep groove which in early development is seen within the horse-shoe-elevation called the furcula (p. 99) deepens into an elongated tube of mesoblast with hypoblast within. This tube bifurcates, and already in an embryo two-thirds of an inch long, the lungs exist in the form of expansions outwards from the ends of