622 THE BRAIN. are thus, as respects development, one division of the brain, the hemisphere- vesicle ; and indeed the division into stem-part and mantle is so far secondary that while in reptiles, as in mammals, the corpora striata are but limited bodies at the base of a large ventricle roofed by this mantle, in birds the mantle has scarcely a separate existence, there being only a thin membrane roofing the lateral ventricle into which the corpus striatum looks; and to such an extreme is this carried that it is impossible to escape the conclusion that work done by the mantle in mammals and reptiles is done by the stem-part in birds. External olfactory fissure Orbital gyrus Internal orbital gyrus Posterior orbital gyrus Bulbus hippocampi Uncus -Cut surface Triradiate fissure Olfactory tract Fissure of Sylvius Anterior perfor- ated spot Lateral ventricle —Splenium Calcarine fissure \Jj': > V Fig. 451.—The basal surface of the hemispheres as seen after removal of the root of the brain by Reichert's section, namely, a cut carried along the outer side of the optic tract and along the furrow between the optic thalamus and nucleus caudatus. The hemisphere, as distinguished from the hemisphere-vesicle, does not include the corpus striatum. Its grey matter is of peculiar construction, considering that "there is no sufficient reason for excluding the remainder of the limbic lobe." Owen, who introduced the term rhinencephalon, used it to designate what he considered as one of four primary divisions of the brain, and counted as another the prosencephalon, in which he included both the hemispheres and optic thalami. The term mantle was introduced by Reichert, and is meant by Schwalbe to be used in the sense originally given to it. The whole limbic lobe, including the bulbus hippocampi, belongs to the mantle as defined by Reichert. As for the olfactory lobe, Schwalbe is right in comparing it with the retina and optic nerve, the primary optic vesicle of the embryo brain; and it might be said that in development the rhinencephalon is related to the front of the first cerebral vesicle, as the primary optic vesicle is to its back part. The rhinal fissure described })y Turner in mammals is not homologous with the fissure limiting the rhinencephalon in fishes.