THE MUSCLES. 348 upper surface to reach the uvula, where they become blended. The muscles which pass downwards from it are on each side, the palato-glossus <ind palato-pharyngeus forming respectively the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces between which lies the tonsil. The muscles which reach it from above are likewise two on each side, the tensor palati and levator palati, the former, anterior in position, springing from the sphenoid, the latter from the petrous bone. In the soft palate the muscular fibres of the levator uvulae lie above those of the levator palati, and both are embraced above and below by those of the palato-pharyngeus, while the palato-glossus forms the lowest stratum. The tendinous fibres of the tensor palati enter the aponeurosis of the palate beneath the insertion of the levator palati. The levator uvulae (azygos uvulae) arises from the posterior nasal spine and the aponeurosis of the soft palate. In the uvula it blends with its fellow of the opposite side, and is inserted into the sub-mucous tissue. The palato-glossus arises on the under surface of the palatal aponeurosis, its fibres decussating across the middle line with those of the muscle of the opposite side. It descends in the anterior pillar of the fauces to the side of the posterior part of the tongue, where it becomes blended with the transverse lingual fibres. At its posterior border a few fibres spread over the surface of the tonsil (amygdalo-glossus). The palato-pharyngeus arises in two layers, the smaller from the upper surface of the soft palate above the levator uvulae, the fibres decussating across the middle line with those of the opposite side, the lower from the margin of the hard palate and from the palatal aponeurosis. A small slip {sailingo-]jharijngeiis) descends to it from the lower margin of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The muscle passes backwards and downwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces to the wall of the pharynx, and, spreading, blends with the stylo-pharyngeus to be inserted partly into the upper and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage, and partly into the wall of the lower part of the pharynx, where some of its fibres reach the middle line. The tensor palati (circumflexus palati) has a broad origin from the sphenoid bone behind and internal to the foramen ovale, stretching from the spine to the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate. It also receives fibres from the. outer side of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The muscle forms a flattened band, which, descending, becomes tendinous, and turns round the hamular process, a small bursa intervening. The tendinous fibres spread out into the aponeurosis of the velum, and in addition are partly inserted into the transverse ridge of the under surface of the horizontal plate of the palate bone. The levator palati, rounded in outline, springs by a narrow tendon from the under surface of the petrous bone in front of the carotid canal, and by some fibres from the lower edge of the hinder part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The muscle passes downwards, forwards, and inwards,