THE EXTERNAL EAR. 669 gested by Woolner the sculptor that it represented the tip of the ear in the lower animals. The inferior extremity of the cartilage of the helix is ,, separated by a deep cleft from the upper edge of the antitragus. An anterior ligament extends from a tubercle on the front of the helix to the root of the zygoma; and a jmterior ligament passes from a thickening at the back of the concha to the mastoid process; while the attralmis, retrakens and attollens auriculam muscles likewise attach the cartilage ta the skull (p. 330). More minute collections of muscular fibres pass from one part of the cartilage to another, but are not constantly developed. They are: (1) the greaier muscle of the helix, on the anterior convexity; (2) the smaller muscle of the helix, below the greater, and attaching the helix to the concha; (3 and 4) the tragic and antitragic, on the outer sides of the tragus and antitragus; (5) the trarisverse muscle, consisting of fibres bridging the concavity of the fold forming the antihelix ; and (6) the oblique, a smaller set of fibres bridging the concavity of the inferior division of the antihelix. The external auditor}/ meatus or canal extends from the concha to the membrana tympani. It is walled in by the cartilage of the pinna in its superficial part and by the temporal bone more deeply. Its entrance as it leaves the concha under cover of the tragus has a forward inclination ; and immediately internal to the concha it turns transversely inwards, but immediately resumes a forward inclination, which it preserves in the rest of its extent. It is also sloped somewhat upwards from its commencement till within the bony canal, where it inclines downwards. Thus, the whole passage is straightened by pulling the pinna upwards and backwards; and when a speculum is introduced a certain distance, its outer end has to be raised to bring the membrana tympani into view. The integument lining the meatus becomes thinner and more sensitive in the osseous part. The cartilaginous part has few and ill-marked papillae. It is furnished with hairs which have an outward slope and are provided with sebaceous glands. But much more remarkable are the ceruminous glands which secrete the wax; they are of similar structure to the sudoriparous glands elsewhere^ but much larger. In the deep parts the hairs and glands disappear, and papillae are well marked and numerous. Arteries and nerves. The external ear receives branches from the posterior auricular, superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries, and is supplied with nerves by the posterior auricular branch of the facial, the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth, and the great auricular and small occipital nerves from the cervical plexus. The Middle Ear. The middle ear, the tympanum, presents principally for consideration the tympanic cavity, the ossicles with their muscles, and a mucous mem- brane ; and connected with it are the membrana tympani and the Eustachian.