75 INTEGUMENTS. namely, nails and hairs. Both are accompanied M^ith subsidiary arrange- ments of th-e corium and epidermis around. Nails. A nail is essentially a thickened shield of horny epidermis pushed forwards from within a fold of integument, and remaining in contact with the corium for some dis- tance. The part of the corium with which it is united is called the matrix. In the fold of the matrix two papillary surfaces covered with epidermis are turned toward one another, and the closely set pointed papillae, both in the fold and on the rest of the matrix, are all directed toward the tip of the nail. Within the fold one mass of horny substance is formed from the growing epidermis clothing the deep and the reflected surface of the fold, so that at this part, the root, the nail is hardest in the middle depth; but as soon as it escapes from the fold, it receives new layers of cor- puscles on its deep surface only, and hence the exposed part of the nail is hard on the surface and softer beneath, while it gets thicker gradu- ally toward the free extremity. If left uncut the nails turn over and tend to break into laminae, in conse- quence of the continued contraction of corpuscles after separation from the matrix. The individual scaly corpuscles of which the nails are formed are slightly elongated in the direction of growth of the nail. Hair?. A hair is an epidermal growth based on a single papilla. It projects from a deep invagination of the skin, termed a hair follicle, and consists of two parts, viz., the root and the shaft. The root or hiilh is a dilated and rounded mass of spherical corpuscles surrounding an enlarged papilla, and at its upper part showing the different textures found in the shaft. The shaft of a fully developed hair presents three textures—the- cortical substance, the epithelium and the medulla. The cortex or cortical substance is badly named; it is no mere bark, but constitutes the main structure. It is formed of horny epidermal scales much elongated, and incapable for the most part of being fully separated even with the aid of liquor potassae. But hairs of the head and beard tend to split at their extremities, and it is easy in such a case and in hairs of the armpit to exhibit fibres. The epithelium (so called) is a single layer of unelongated Fig. 70.—Sebaceous Gland of Cheek. Op- posite B a hair-follicle, containing a small haiiv opens into the duct. (Toldt.)