SUTURAL BONES. 237 SUTURAL BONES. Additional bones are of frequent occurrence in the sutures of the cranium, where they are called Wormian hones or ossa triquetra. They are most frequent in the lambdoidal suture, where a whole chain of them may occur even to the extent of separating the occipital and parietal completely, an arrangement which occurs both in this and other sutures in chronic hydrocephalus. Sometimes one, three or more large bones are developed at the expense of the upper part of the occipital. Wormian bones also occur in the sagittal, coronal, parieto-mastoid and even the squamous suture; and a single bone of the sort is common between the parietal and great wing of the sphenoid, and by becoming united with either frontal or squamous may give the appearance of these bones coming into contact (Schlocker). Small ossicles of the same descrip- tion are said to occur in the face; as, at the outer end of the spheno- maxillary fissure, and in connection with the lachrymal bone. FOSSAE OF THE SKULL. Certain fossae of the skull require further description than could be given with that of the individual bones. The temporal fossa is the part bounded above by the temporal ridge,, in front by the malar and external angular process of the frontal, behind by the origin of the zygomatic process of the temporal, and below by the temporo-zygomatic ridge of the sphenoid; and it is arched across by the zygomatic arch and occupied by the temporal muscle. The zygomatic fossa is separated from the temporal by the temporo- zygomatic ridge ; it is roofed by the great wing of the sphenoid, and bounded internally by the external pterygoid plate. In front of it is the tuberosity of the maxilla, separated from the external pterygoid plate by a thin edge of the palate bone below, and by the pterygo-maxillary fissure higher up, and from the great wing of the sphenoid by the outer half of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The spheno-maxillary fossa is the narrow space between the pterygoid process and the tuberosity of the maxilla, separated from the nasal fossa by the palate bone and communicating externally with the zygomatic fossa by the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and superiorly with the orbit by the inner half of the spheno-maxillary fissure. Into it open five foramina, viz., posteriorly, the foramen rotundum and the anterior extremities of the Vidian and ptery go-palatine canals ; internally, the spheno-palatine foramen, and inferiorly, the posterior palatine canal. The pterygoid fossa is the interval between the pterygoid plates; it looks backwards, its anterior wall is completed below by the palate bone, and in its upper and inner part is the scaphoid fossa. It is occupied by the internal pterygoid and tensor palati muscles.