MUSCLES OF UPPEE LIMB. 279 The Deep Posterior Group. There are five muscles in this layer : the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor indicis. They lie close to the bones and the interosseous membrane, and are placed from above downwards in the order in which they are named above. The inner limit of their origin is marked by a line upon the ulna, which begins above on the outer surface of the head at the hinder edge of the lesser sigmoid cavity, and is continued down the middle of the posterior surface of the shaft, dividing it into inner and outer portions. The upper fifth of this line marks the limit of the ulnar origin of the supinator brevis, the second fifth that of the extensor of the metacarpal bone of the thumb; the third and fourth fifths correspond to the position of the extensors of the second phalanx of the thumb and of the index finger. From the lower fifth no muscular fibres spring. The extensor of the first phalanx of the thumb lies at its origin from the interosseous membrane between the extensor of the metacarpal bone and that of the second phalanx and does not extend so far inwards as the ulna. The muscles are directed downwards and outwards. The supinator brevis {musculus supinator) arises from the orbicular ligament of the radius, the external lateral ligament of the elbow, the depression beneath the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna and the ridge limiting the depression behind. It is inserted into the outer surface of Olecranon U \ External epicondyle (attachment of / external lateral ligament) Radius Supinator brevis Ulna Radius Fig. 243.—Supinator Brevis. (L. Testut.) the radius, extending as far forwards as the oblique line. The muscle is flat and four-sided, narrow above and at its origin, broad below and at its insertion. The posterior interosseous nerve runs in its substance. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis (abductor pollicis longus) arises from, the outer part of the posterior surface of the ulna below the