462 THE VASCULAK SYSTEM. respectively under cover of the internal and external lateral ligaments to ramify over the front of the joint, anastomosing with one another, with the upper articular arteries from above, and with the recurrent branches of the anterior tibial artery from below. The articular arteries supply small branches to the capsular ligament and to the surrounding muscles. The uzygos articular artery, arising opposite the middle of the joint, pierces the posterior part of the capsular ligament to supply the crucial ligaments and the ligamentum mucosum. Varieties of the popliteal artery are not frequent; it sometimes divides into its terminal branches a little higher than usual. The vein is frequently found double in the lower part of the popliteal space and occa- sionally even in the upper part of the space. Surgical anatomy of the popliteal artery. The popliteal artery is seldom ligatured, as in most cases the surgeon would prefer to deal with the femoral. The artery is so deeply placed in the fat of the space and is so very closely associated with the vein, especially in the middle of the space, that the operation would be specially difficult and dangerous. The vessel has been secured near its lower end between the heads of the gastrocnemius by a median incision. In this operation the short saphenous vein and the sural arteries are to be avoided. The internal popliteal nerve is first met with; the vein lies on the deep surface of the nerve, and both are internal to the artery and somewhat superficial to it. The artery has also been ligatured in the lower part of the thigh, as it lies between the adductor magnus and semimembranosus muscles. The incision is made behind the tendon of the adductor magnus, the sartorius is drawn back- wards, and the semimembranosus exposed; the artery here lies close to the bone with the vein on its deep surface. The Anterior Tibial Artery. The anterior tibial artery (Fig. 347) springs from the termination of the popliteal stem at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and almost immediately passes forwards, between the heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, through the interosseous membrane. It then passes downwards as far as the level of the ankle-joint, beyond which it is continued as the dorsal artery of the foot. As it descends it rests in the upper two- thirds of its course upon the interosseous membrane, in the lower third, upon the tibia. In the upper part it is deeply placed, being covered by the muscles between which it lies; internally the tibialis anticus, externally the extensor digitorum longus in the upper third of the leg, and the extensor hallucis longus below; but near the ankle, as the muscular fibres give place to tendon, the artery becomes comparatively superficial. About, or a little above the level of the ankle it is obliquely crossed from without inwards by the tendon of the extensor of the great toe. Two venae comites accompany it, one lying in front, the other behind. The anterior tibial nerve, which