THE MUSCLES. 354 The scalenus posticus, smaller than the other two, is somewhat variable, being occasionally absent altogether. It arises from the posterior tubercles of a few of the lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the upper border of the second rib, in close proximity to the place of insertion of the first slip of the serratus posticus superior muscle. The scalene muscles all take origin by tendinous slips. The subclavian vein crosses the lower end of the anterior muscle, and the common carotid artery, with its accompanying structures, lying upon the transverse processes, is in front of the origins of the muscle; the phrenic nerve, descending, crosses the muscle from without inwards. The subclavian artery passes outwards over the first rib, between the attachments of the anterior and middle muscles, and the tubercle to which the former is attached is recognized by surgeons as the guide to the vessel in the operation for ligature. The nerves of the brachial plexus pass outwards between the two muscles, and lie in close proximity to the artery. Two of the branches of the plexus, the nerve to the rhomboids and the posterior thoracic, pass backwards through the middle scalene muscle. The scalene muscles elevate the upper ribs and come into play in forced inspiration; acting from below they produce flexion of the cervical portion of the column. They receive small branches from the anterior divisions of the cervical nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina. THE PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES. The longus colli muscle is divided into three portions, a vertical, and an upper and a lower oblique portion. The vertical portion springs by musculo-tendinous slips from the bodies of the three upper dorsal and two lower cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by similar slips into the bodies of the second, third, and fourth vertebrae of the neck. The lower oblique portion arises in common with the lower part of the vertical portion, and is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. The upper oblique portion, larger than the lower, and sometimes separately described as the "atlantal" muscle, passes from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the anterior surface of the atlas. The rectus capitis anticus major arises by tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third and the succeeding cervical vertebrae. The slips unite to form a flattened fleshy band which is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone along an oblique line extending outwards and forwards from the pharyngeal spine for about half an inch. The rectus capitis anticus minor arises from the anterior part of the base of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone under cover of the outer margin of the larger rectus.