679 THE INTEENAL EAR. the commencement of the Eustachian tube, and the carotid canal is beneath it. The tube is about yrrth inch wide at its commencement and about half that width at the apex. The pillar of bone in the centre of the spiral is termed the modiolus; and from this there projects at right angles a spiral flange, lamina sjnralis, extending into the tube along its whole length, but diminishing in breadth more rapidly than does the tube. It begins at the iimer margin of the recessus cochleae in the floor of the vestibule, and ends at the cupola in a hook-like process, the hamulus. The modiolus is hollowed by canals containing the cochlear branches of the auditory nerve and internal auditory artery. The nerve-canals are united opposite the attachment of the lamina spiralis by a sjnral canal for a spiral ganglion, and the branches of both vessels and nerves escape by a range of openings beneath the edge of the lamina spiralis. Within the osseous tube there is a lining of periosteum continuous with that of the vestibule, and attached to it centrally and peripherally is the cochlear part of the membranous labyrinth, commonly called the canalis cochleae. The canalis cochleae is attached centrally to the lamina spiralis, and peripherally to a strip of the circumferent wall, and between these attached parts it is bounded by two membranes, called respectively the basilar membrane and the membrane of Reissner. The basilar membrane (together with the limbus to be afterwards described) separates it from a passage containing perilymph, the scala tympani; and the membrane of Reissner separates it from a similar passage, the scala vestibuli. At the base of the cochlea it presents a round cul-de-sac beyond the point where it receives the narrow canalis reuniens, and it is attached to the margin of the recessus cochleae so as to cut off" the commencement of the scala tympani, and with it the fenestra rotunda, from the vestibule; but at the cupola there is a small space, helicotrema, -^jjt\i inch across, between the end of'the osseous tube, the hamulus and the blind end of the canalis cochleae ; and here the scala tympani is continuous with the scala vestibuli which at the other end opens into the cavity of the vestibule above the canalis cochleae. Thus^ the secondary membrana tympani closing the fenestra rotunda looks into a passage, the scala tympani, which only communicates with the vestibule 1 ^"N^^ '%, ^ circuitously by the helicotrema and scala vestibuli. Thp nc;«;pAns; laTninq t;TWrali=; is nro- 515.-At the Summit ok the Lamina ine osseous lamma SpliailS is pro- spiralis, a, Helicotrema hamulus ; c. crista longed outwards by a thickening of iSj^fiembm^^^^^^^^ non-calcified substance, the limbus, which Ion the side next the scala tympani extends in a direct plane into the basilar membrane, but on the other rises into a convexity, the crista spiralis, covered with tooth-like processes, the outermost of which project as a lip, the labium vestibulare, overhanging a groove, sulcus