EMBEYOLOGY. 99 lohe, which comes forward below the eye, and not only forms the cheek and greater part of the upper lip, but sends inwards from its lower edge a lamina to meet, in the long run, both its neighbour of the opposite side and the septum of the nose, so forming the palate. Thus the nasal cavity takes origin altogether independently of the fore-gut, as do also the walls of the mouth, with the exception of the tongue. A communication from mouth to nose is left between the middle nasal and the maxillary lobe in ruminants and some other mammals, and leads in them into the supplementary organ of special sense called Jacobson's organ; while another such passage is left between the maxillary lobe and the lateral nasal process, and becomes the lachrymal duct. The tongue appears first as a mesial eminence, tuberculum impar, opposite the first visceral cleft, separated by a furrow from a horse-shoe elevation opposite the succeeding arches, which is called the furcula and Fi(i. 104.—Anterior Wall of Mouth and Pharynx of human embryo about i^^^^^ long- «, Tuberculum impar; h, furcula. The visceral arches are numbered. (After His.) Fig. 105.—Floor of Mouth and Pharynx of human embryo 5 inch long, a, Tuber- culum impar; h, " epiglottis; c, ductus thyreoglossus. (After His.) is the rudiment of the epiglottis and aryteno-epiglottidean folds. The second and third visceral arches unite on each side, and intrude a narrow elevation between the tuberculum impar and furcula to form the root-part of the tongue behind the V-shaped mark, while a pit, ductus thyreoglossus^ deepens down behind the tuberculum impar. The ductus thyreoglossus dilates at its deep extremity to form the mesial portion of the thyroid body, becomes obliterated in the middle, and at its entrance remains as the foramen caecum of the tongue. The thyroid body has, in addition to this mesial origin, two lateral origins from pouches of the fourth visceral clefts. The thymus is of similar nature to the thyroid, taking origin, in mammals, principally, if not altogether, from pouching of the third clefts; in birds, from pouching of the third and fourth ; and in reptiles, from the second, third and fourth clefts. The limbs. The limbs make their first appearance in the chick in the third day, and in the human embryo during the third or fourth week. On each side beyond the outer margins of the muscle-plates, there is a line or ridge beyond which the mesoblast becomes thinner as it is followed