VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN AND PELVIS. 481 The spermatic veins ascend from the testicle, and are placed in front of the spermatic artery and vas deferens. They exhibit at first a plexi- form arrangement {pampiniform plexus). Within the inguinal canal the plexus is reduced to two or three vessels which, higher up, join with one another and form a single vein. The vein of the right side enters the inferior cava; that of the left falls into the left renal vein. The ovarian veins form a plexus {ovarian or pampiniform plexus) between the layers of the broad ligament, and communicate freely with the uterine veins. Higher up they behave like the spermatic veins. Valves are usually found at the terminations of the spermatic or ovarian veins, and imperfect valves are found in their branches. The suprarenal veins, one on each side, terminate on the right side in the inferior cava, and on the left side in the left renal vein. The inferior phrenic veins accompany the inferior phrenic arteries; the vein of the right side enters the inferior cava, that of the left falls into either the left renal or the inferior cava. The hepatic veins open directly into the inferior vena cava, as two or three large trunks and a number of smaller ones. They have no valves, but, as they enter the inferior cava obliquely, the lower margin of each forms a semilunar projection. The common iliac veins (Figs. 336, 360) are formed by the confluence of the external and internal iliac veins. Each vessel passes upwards and inwards from a point opposite the upper margin of the sacro-iliac articulation, and at the upper border of the fifth lumbar vertebra, a little to the right of the middle line, unites with its fellow. The vein of the right side ascends behind the right common iliac artery, that of the left side is placed to the right of the left common iliac artery, and at its termination lies behind the upper part of the right common iliac artery. The common iliac veins usually contain no valves. They receive as tributaries the ilio-lumbar veins which accompany the ilio-lumbar arteries, and that of the left side also receives the middle sacral vein, a vessel which is formed by the union with one another of the two venae comites of the middle sacral artery. The internal iliac vein lies behind and to the inner side of the internal iliac artery, and extends from the neighbourhood of the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic notch to the level of the upper part of the sacro- iliac articulation, where it unites with the external iliac vein. It contains no valves. It receives tributaries corresponding to all the branches of the internal iliac artery, except the ilio-lumbar, the vein accompanying which, in ordinary circumstances, terminates in the common iliac vein. By the free communication of the venous radicles which unite to form the tribu- taries of the internal iliac veins, several intercommunicating plexuses are formed in the pelvis. The anterior sacral plexus is formed upon the front of the sacrum by the tributaries of the middle sacral and lateral sacral veins. It communicates with the spinal veins and with the liaemorrhoidal plexus. 2h