157 THE KADIO-ULNAE AND ELBOW-JOINTS. Movements of elbow-joint and forearm. The movement of the ulna on the humerus is hinge-like, consisting of flexion and extension in one plane. This plane coincides with that in which the shaft of the humerus lies, as may be proved by piercing the a ulna with a pin in such a way that | its point will slightly project and / scratch the trochlea of the humerus when the joint is flexed and ex- tended. The curves of such scratches / are circular, and there is thus perfect conformity of the humeral and ulnar surfaces; but the inner part of the ' coronoid portion of the ulnar sur- face, and the bevelled part on the outside of its olecranal portion, only glide into contact with the humerus on approach to extension. In ex- tension of the arm the shaft of the ulna is inclined about 10° outwards from the direction of the shaft of the humerus, so as to make an angle of about 170° with it; and con- sequently, when the arm hangs by the side, with the palm of the hand looking forwards, there is an angle pointing inwards at the level of the elbow; but pronation brings hum- erus and forearm into one straight line. The movement of the radius on the ulna is such that its shaft moves in the surface of a cone, the head being rotated within the grasp of the orbicular ligament, and the lower end circumducted round the Fig. 157.—Interosseous Membrane and Carpal. Ligaments from the front, with complete over-exten- sion of the wrist. a, Oblique ligament; h, recess formed by the interosseous ligament being attached inferiorly above the posterior margin of the radial surface for articulation with the ulna; c, styloid pro- cess of radius; d, inferior surface of ulna ; e, triangu- lar fibro-plate ; /, upi^er surface of semilunar ; g, tubercle of scaphoid ; h, groove on trapezium for flexor carpi radialis ; i, ridge of trapezium ; k, articu- lar surface of first metacarpal separated in its palmar part from trapezial surface by over-extension of the joint; I, m, descending ligaments of the pisiform, I, to the unciform process, m, to the fifth meta- carpal ; n, insertion of flexor carpi radialis into second metacarpal; o, the head of the os magnum. The pennate fibres in front of the carpus are the anterior radio-carpal and anterior common carpal ligaments. insertion of the triangular flbro plate. The apex of the cone is a little lower than the upper surface of the head, a slight shifting of the centre of rotation being caused by the turning inwards of the thick part of the convex border in pronation. In passing from extreme pronation to extreme supination, or the reverse, the lower end of the radius describes a semicircle, as may be seen by semiflexing the elbow, when it will be found that either the palm or back of the hand can be turned upwards. When the elbow is extended and the arm hanging, the hand can be rotated three-quarters of a circle, so that the palm can be turned outwards by continuation of rotation inwards :