MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 383 diaphragm. The ligament has an occasional additional attachment to the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra. At the lower part of the abdomen the fascia is stronger where it spreads over the iliacus muscle, and is attached externally to the iliac crest and internally to the ilio- pectineal line. It furnishes a delicate investment to the external iliac vessels, and behind them is continued into the thigh, forming the posterior wall of the femoral sheath and blending with the deep prolongation of the pubic portion of the fascia lata on the ilio-psoas and pectineus muscles. The lower border of the fascia in the region external to the vessels is attached to the deep surface of Poupart's ligament, where it meets the fascia transversalis. Abscesses connected with carious vertebrae, even when the disease is limited to the dorsal region, may pass downwards in the substance of the psoas muscle and reach the thigh under cover of the prolongation of the iliac fascia. The fascia transversalis is a thin sheet which lines the deep surface of the transversalis muscle, and is continuous with the fascia covering the quadratus lumborum and the delicate layer on the under surface of the diaphragm. Anteriorly it is attached to the linea alba. Below, in the middle line, it passes behind the symphysis into the pelvis; further out- wards it is attached to the deep surface of the conjoined tendon and Gimbernat's ligament, and still more externally to Poupart's ligament and the iliac crest. In the region immediately external to Gimbernat's ligament it is arched over the vessels, and is prolonged into the thigh as the main part of the anterior wall of the femoral sheath. Beyond the artery it meets, on the deep surface of Poupart's ligament, the fascia iliaca. 7, Space occupied by psoas 6, Fascia iliaca 4, Prolongation of fascia iliaca 5, Pectineus 8, Crural canal Fig. 297.—Diagram ok the Chlral Arch. (I.. Testut.) The crural canal and femoral hernia. The vessels which pass Ijetween the abdomen and the thigh receive in the abdominal portion of their course from the fascia iliaca upon which they lie, a delicate investment surrounding and separating them; but as they pass into the thigh there is added to this a moderately strong sheath, prolonged from the fascia transversalis in front and the fascia iliaca behind. At the place of exit of the vessels the sheath