33 BONE. mineral matter has been removed by acid, it presents a somewhat fibrous appearance. This is termed the granular layer, and owing to the small amount of matrix in proportion to the bulk of its corpuscular substance, it is brittle, and is the part in which the mass of cartilage tends to Fig. 31. ?^ Fig. 32. Fig. 31.—Ossifying Extremity of Shaft of Femur at Birth, decalcified, a, Fusiform cartilage capsules; b, the corpuscles become rounded and isolated ; c, corpuscles large and separated by more matrix ; d, each such corpuscle converted into a spindle-shaped group; e, each such group enlarged and more separated by matrix from others; /, the groups elongating, and the capsules enlarging transversely; g, the capsules greatly enlarged, the matrix diminished and presenting a pseudo-fibrous appearance—this is the granular layer, and it is here that the cartilage easily breaks away from the bone ; h, capsules further enlarged, their corpuscles undergoing proliferation, and two of them represented as converted into branched bone-coi-puscles by intra-capsular calcification ; i, bone and two primitive marrow-spaces with two bloodvessels dilated above and lost among the marrow-cells. Semi-diagrammatic. Fig. 32.—Ossification of Astragalus at Birth, decalcified, a, Cartilage ; 6, cartilage- capsules filled with numerous minute corpuscles, and one capsule containing a single corpuscle which has been surrounded with intra-capsular deposition of mineralized matrix ; c, primitive marrow-spaces continuous with cartilage-capsules, also group of unicellular bone-lobules formed by intra-capsular deposit. break asunder from the bone beneath. In the granular layer the capsules continue very generally to enlarge, and are filled with corpuscles which rapidly increase in number and diminish in size, till the capsules com- municate with the marrow-spaces within the new bone, and the corpuscles which they contain are indistinguishable from the contents of those spaces; those of them which lie close to the mineralized matrix becoming spread C