THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA AND PONS VAROLIL 597 is transverse, while its upper border sweeps downwards as it curves out. I A shallow groove marks its surface in the middle line, corresponding with the position of the basilar artery. Its fibres are gathered together on each side to enter the cerebellum, and are termed the middle 'peduncles of the cerebellum where they enter its substance, each in contact with an inferior peduncle continuous with the restiform body below, and with a superior peduncle above, passing up from the cerebellum to the corpora quadrigemina. In gathering together to form the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, the superficial fibres, starting from the upper half in the middle line, turn down so as to overlay those of the lower half, and are distinguished as the oblique band, and directed particularly to the under half of the cerebellum. Internal structure. In the lower part of the medulla oblongata the grey 1 matter continued from the spinal cord is first displaced by the decussation of the anterior pyramids, so as to separate, as seen in transverse section, the inner tips of the anterior cornua from the rest, and finally cause them to disappear. At the same time, each anterior pyramid forms a white mass in front; behind and outside it the white substance of the olivary body surrounds the lower end of its own special nucleus; and behind this there is a lateral nucleus continuous with the so-called lateral cornu of the cord or outer angle of the clavate enlargement of the anterior cornu. Immediately behind the lateral nucleus there is found the continuation upwards of the gelatinous cornu of Eolando, expanded and termed tubercle of Rolando, and having on its surface white nerve-fibres belonging to the root of the fifth nerve; and behind the tubercle of Rolando there are two lobes of grey matter lying under the fasciculus cuneatus and fasciculus gracilis, and named nucleus cuneatus and nucleus gracilis. Thus the grey matter con- tinuous with that of the cord is thrown greatly backwards and to the sides. But the distance between the central canal and the anterior median fissure is much increased, and is occupied by a decussation of fibres distinct from that of the anterior pyramids, and continuous with the anterior white commissure of the cord, the decussation of the fillets {superior pijramidal decussation); and the space between this and the series of grey lobes mentioned is occupied by a reticular formation, in which vertical bundles occupy meshes between bundles taking transverse and oblique courses. In the upper or open part of the medulla oblongata a transverse section shows a raphe running back in the mesial plane to the grey matter lining the floor of the fourth ventricle in uninterrupted continuity with the grey matter of the cord; and on each side are three areae, anterior, middle and posterior, separated by nerve-roots coursing between the ventricular floor and the grooves behind and in front of the olivary body. At the pia-matral surfaces of the anterior and posterior areae, the fibres of the anterior pyramid and the restiform body respectively stand out compactly, while in the olivary body is seen the olivary nucleus, about to be described, and throughout the deep part there extends a peculiar netted appearance, the reticular formation already alluded to, which is caused