THE MUSCLES. 302 The psoas magnus occupies the angle between the anterior surfaces of the tranverse processes and the lateral regions of the bodies of the lower movable vertebrae, its origin extending from the last dorsal to the fifth lumbar. The fibres spring partly from the transverse processes, on which they reach outwards nearly to the tips, partly from the intervertebral discs and the contiguous bony vertebral margins, and partly from a series of tendinous arches which, crossing the lumbar vessels, stretch from the upper to the lower edges of the bodies of the vertebrae. Narrowing as it. passes downwards it first partly overlaps and then becomes united with the inner edge of the iliacus, crosses the capsule of the hip, and is inserted by tendon into the small trochanter. In the abdomen both muscles are covered by the iliac fascia. The psoas is crossed by the external iliac artery which, while still on its surface, passes behind Poupart's ligament. At its origin the lumbar plexus of nerves lies deeply embedded in it and the branches leave it at various points. In the thigh the conjoined muscles form part of the floor of Scarpa's triangle. Between the deep surface of the psoas and the capsule of the hip lies a large bursa which often communicates with the cavity of the joint. The psoas parvus, inconstant and variable, lies, when present, upon the surface of the larger psoas muscle. It usually springs from the intervertebral disc which unites the last dorsal to the first lumbar vertebra and from the contiguous edges of the bones. Eapidly narrowing, it ends in a long tendon which, passing downwards and becoming partly blended with the iliac fascia, is inserted into the ilio-pectineal eminence. The muscle though well developed and constant in many animals is absent in the human subject, on one or both sides, in about fifty per cent, of cases. Variations of the anterior femoral muscles. These are not frequent. Absence of the sartorius has been noted. Additional attachments of the sartorius, psoas and iliacus have been described. The two last mentioned muscles are sometimes completely separated down to their attachments. Actions of the Muscles of the Hip and Thigh. The gluteus maximus is the chief extensor of the hip-joint, and may act from the thigh or from the trunk. Acting from the trunk the upper fibres tend to abduct the thigh while the lower fibres adduct and rotate outwards. The whole muscle comes into play in walking, running, leaping, and in rising from the sitting to the erect posture. Through its connection with the fascia lata the muscle acts along with the tensor vaginae femoris upon the knee-joint. The gluteus medius and minimus are abductors of the thigh, or, acting from the thigh, tilt the pelvis over the femur, as happens in walking in the case of the supporting limb. The anterior fibres of both muscles tend to rotate the limb inwards, more particularly in the flexed position of the joint. The posterior fibres of the gluteus medius act as