610 THE BRAIN. | quadrigemina, and is called the posterior tubercle^ while the anterior part presents an elevation, the anterior tubercle, distinguished by a slight depression running internal to and behind it, so as to indicate the free margin of a superimposed brain-structure, the fornix, which is separated from it by a fold of pia mater, velum interpositum, whose redundant vascular margin, the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricles, more or less overlies the anterior tubercle. The upper surface of each optic thalamus is separated by a furrow in front and on the outer side from the corpus striatum. The corpora striata present each a large pyriform elevation of grey matter, the caudate nucleus, in front and outside of the optic thalamus; its fore part being broad and rounded, and separated from its fellow by the anterior pillars of the fornix and by the septum lucidum, while posteriorly it tapers to a point outside the hinder end of the optic thalamus. There are two other nuclei of the corpus striatum placed deeply, namely, the lenticular nucleus and the claustrum, and all three lie back to back with the island of Reil, forming with it the root part of the hemisphere, while the rest of the hemisphere, distinguished as the mantle (Reichert), has no grey matter except on the convoluted surface. The taenia semicircularis or stria terminalis is a narrow band in the furrrow between the optic thalamus and corpus striatum. It is a gelatinous-looking structure, containing a vein and some white nerve-fibres, but is principally interesting as an embryological landmark. The floor of the third ventricle. The mesial surfaces of the optic thalami are nearly in contact one with the other, forming the lateral walls of the third ventricle, and covered like other ventricular surfaces with ependyma and ciliated epithelium. They are very usually united across the middle line by a little bridge of grey matter, the middle, soft or grey com- missure of the third ventricle, but this is often absent. The floor of the ventricle slopes downwards and forwards, supported at first by the tegmentum of the crura cerebri; and in front of this it is simply the thin grey lamina constituting the tuber cinereum, and exhibits the mouth of the infundibulum leading to the pituitary body, while, still further forwards, it forms a pointed cul-de-sac, the optic recess, on the upper surface of the optic commissure, and bounded anteriorly by the lamina cinerea. At the back of the third ventricle the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius is seen, and over it a transverse band, the posterior white commissure of the third ventricle with the pineal body attached to it. At the front of the ventricle, just above the optic recess, two cylindrical white cords, the anterior crura of the fornix, descend to disappear in the grey matter on each side ; and immediately in front of them there is a transverse white cord, the anterior commissure of the third ventricle (Figs. 446 and 449). The pineal body or conarium is a small structure like a currant, of a slightly flattened and conical shape and deep reddish colour, attached by a narrow neck to the posterior white commissure, and surrounded with pia mater, or, rather, embedded in it, resting on the front of the corpora quadrigemina. In