753 THE LUNGS. the bronchi; the left lung showing two, one for the upper and one for the lower lobe, while the right lung is larger and shows three, the beginnings of the three lobes of its adult condition. The right and left pulmonary arteries in the young embryo are also not symmetrically arranged; the right descends from its origin in a slightly more ventral position than the left, and passes on the ventral side of the neck of the upper lobe before entering the lung on the dorsal side of the others; while the left artery lies on the dorsal side of the necks of both lobes. Ramification rapidly proceeds ; the extremities of the lobules always preserving a dilated appearance. It has been observed that in the fifth month the air-cells are only half the size of those found in the fourth month ; the larger cells would therefore appear to become divided by septa. Until birth the lungs, being unexpanded by entrance of air, occupy comparatively little space at the back part of the thorax, and have a specific gravity corresponding with that of similar textures in other parts ; but after birth the expansion takes place immediately, and the air penetrates to the air-cells in a uniform manner depending on the mode in which the expanding force is applied. The opening into the larynx soon exchanges its elongated slit-like form for a T shape, being transverse behind the epiglottis, and mesial between the arytenoid folds. The larynx of the male undergoes rapid enlargement at the time of puberty, and it is then that the pomum Adami becomes more prominent in the male than in the female. In connection with this the difference of pitch according to age and sex is to be noticed. Shortly it may be stated that the register of the voice in the child and adult, and in the male and female, depends on the length of the vocal cords, while the pitch of a particular note depends on the degree of tension to which they are subjected. DUCTLESS GLANDS. Under this old, but by no means indefensible designation, may be con- veniently gathered various organs connected with elaboration or purification of the blood, viz., the spleen, the thyroid, the thymus and the suprarenal capsules, also certain arterial glomerular structures. To the same heterogen- j eous category belong the lymphatic glands, the closed follicles and the I pituitary body; but these have been already described in the section on General Anatomy or with the parts to which they belong. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is attached by two folds of peritoneum, viz., the gastro- I I splenic omentum and the splenic ligament, to the great cul-de-sac of the I stomach and to the diaphragm. It lies in the back part of the left 1 hypochondrium and rests on the diaphragm and left kidney. When not ' 3b