146 THE SKELETON. inferiorly it presents another articular surface continuous all the way across, but abruptly convex at the radial side, deeply concave in the middle, and slightly bevelled internally. The pisiform is articulated in front of the cuneiform, and not in range with the other bones of the row. The bones of the second row are named trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum and unciform; and of these the two inner, namely, the os magnum and unciform, fill up the concavity of the upper range, while the two outer, the trapezium and trapezoid, articulate with the convexity formed by downward projection of the outer part of the scaphoid. The scaphoid bone presents superiorly a convex surface looking upwards and backwards to articulate with the triangular facet on the radius, and inferiorly a deep articular concavity looking doMmwards and inwards and resting on the os magnum. External to both of these surfaces the scaphoid ah c d e f (J h Fig. 150.—Palmar View of Right Carpal Bones, a, Scaphoid ; h, semilunar; c. cunei- form ; d, pisiform ; e, trapezium ; /, trapezoid ; g, os magnum ; h, unciform, x, X, X , The tubercle of the scaphoid, ridge of the trapezium and unciform process of the unciform, which, together with the pisiform, give attachment to the anterior annular ligament. is thickened and bent forwards as a tuberosity giving attachment to the anterior annular ligament. Beneath and behind the tuberosity is a convex articular surface continuous with that for the os magnum, and less abruptlj^ distinguished from it behind than in front, articulating with the tapezium and tapezoid, and most thoroughly in contact with them when the wrist is over-extended. The inner side articulates with the lunar and is narrow from above downwards and inclined downwards and outwards. The anterior and posterior surfaces are non-articular, the anterior concave from side to side, the posterior narrow from above downwards and convex from side to side.^ The lunar or semilunar bone is named from its crescentic form as seen in profile. Both the outer and inner surface are inclined downwards and outwards and are flat. The outer surface is broader from before backwards ^ A little ossicle beneath the inner and back part of the scaphoid was pointed out by Gruber as a not iinfrequent anomaly, and represents the os centrale found in certain mammals.