GENERAL ANATOMY. 24 fibrous membrane, the periosteum, in which the arteries ramify before entering the osseous tissue; and it may have articular cartilages for articulating Avith other bones. The macerated and dried bones used for study are not merely deprived of all these textures, but have likewise lost the corpuscular element of the osseous tissue and consist of mere calcified matrix. General characters. Bone is very generally classified with the connec- tive tissues. Like them it consists essentially of branched corpuscles embedded in gelatiniferous matrix; but the matrix is impregnated with mineral matter to the extent of two thirds of its weight. It has been estimated as containing of phosphate of lime 57 per cent., carbonate of lime 8 per cent., and phosphate of magnesia and fluoride of calcium at the rate on an average of 1 per cent. each. The animal matter may be removed by burning in the fire, while the calcined remains preserve the original form and apparent structure. So also, if the mineral matter be removed by long steeping in dilute hydrochloric acid, the bone will still preserve its size, form, and texture, though rendered flexible, shrivelling up when dried, and recovering its size when steeped in water. These properties, as well as the translucence of the matrix when examined in thin sections, show how intimately the mineral and animal constituents are commingled. Bone is highly elastic, and its elasticity gives strength and spring, especially in association with such curves as are exemplified in the ribs, the clavicle, the femur, and other parts of the skeleton. It presents two principal varieties, the compact and the cancellated. Compact bone is in solid mass, while cancellated bone is arranged in spicules and delicate plates so as to leave spaces filled with marrow, the whole forming a spongy mass easily crushed, and never appearing on the surface, but always covered in by at least a thin crust of compact bone. Cancellated tissue in the human subject and mammals generally is composed more of spicules than of plates, but well-marked plates are often met with on the sides of medullary cavities; and a third arrangement is seen in the diploe or soft tissue between the outer and inner tables of the skull, produced by structure peculiar to compact bone persisting between labyrinths of marrow-spaces eaten out by absorption. The spicules of cancellated tissue in the larger bones present a distinct tendency to definite arrangement. In the upper parts of the femur and humerus, they form lines springing from the compact tissue of the shaft and spreading out in interlacing arches to end above at considerable angles to the surface. In the vertebrae the principal lines of direction are vertical and horizontal; and generally, the spicules in different bones m.d,y be described as disposed in such a manner as to combine strength and lightness, an advantage which is also gained in the shafts of the long bones by the compact tissue being in the form of a tube round the marrow-cavity. The surfaces of dry bones are covered all over with minute orifices,