ORGANS OF COMMON SENSATION. 81 These bulbs are comparable in this respect with Wagner's touch-corpuscles; and there are some of them, called genital corpuscles, on the glans penis {q.v.), more nearly allied to touch-corpuscles; but there are others, the cylindrical bulbs of Krause, which have an axis-cylinder passing up the centre, and are in that respect comparable with Pacinian bodies. Pacinian bodies. These are bodies which were observed by Vater, and distinctly described by Pacini. They may be as much as yVth inch in length, but are more frequently considerably smaller. They occur most abundantly on the digital nerves on the front of the hand, lying among the grains of fat in the subcutaneous tissue. They are found also in the walls of joints and bursae, and in other situations, as behind the head of the pancreas. They are often seen to great advantage in the mesorectum of the cat. They are oval laminated bodies, developed round a single nerve-fibre. The successive laminae or capsules are separated by endothelial layers, and are closely connected at the base with the primitive sheath of the nerve-fibre. The nerve-fibre, piercing into the interior of this system of capsules, loses its medullary sheath, and on entering the innermost capsule becomes surrounded by a somewhat granular substance, the core, and ends towards the further extremity of the core in a single knob, or after bifurcation or slight branching. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. This is the name given to the lining membrane of internal passages freely communicating, directly or indirectly, with the outside, and pouring out on their surface moisture containing a larger or smaller quantity of mucus, a colloid substance whose characteristic constituent, named mucin, contains nitrogen, but no sulphur, and is completely soluble in lime water. It is liable, especially under the influence of catarrh, to be loaded with corpuscles of variable size. These , are simply migratory corpuscles which have made their way to the surface. There are three great tracts of mucous membrane—the alimentary, the respiratory and the genito-urinary. Mucous membrane, like integument, presents an epithelium. This is of a stratified squamous description from the oral aperture to the entrance of the stomach, and in some other localities, as the urethra, the urinary bladder and the conjuctiva; while it is columnar from the entrance of the stomach as far as the deep sphincter ani, ciliated in the respiratory tubes, and of various characters in other places. The mucus from which the membrane is named is undoubtedly poured out by more than one kind of epithelium, and in some places, as in the mouth, the bronchi and the biliary passages, there are special glands which have a mucous secretion. The mucous membrane proper, subjacent to the epithelium, presents, close to the surface, a homogeneous, gelatiuiferous matrix, rich in bloodvessels, and in its deeper part may pass rapidly into F