THE SKELETON. 236 range of tubercles where the internal pterygoid muscle is inserted. The deep side of the coronoid process is smooth, giving attachment to the ^eep fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle; but its margins are sharp, receiving the fibrous part of the insertion of the same muscle, which in front is continued down to a rough depression from which the posterior fibres of the buccinator arise. The condyle is supported on a constricted neck, on the front of which is a depression which receives the greater part of the insertion of the ■external pterygoid muscle. It is convex, and elongated from without inwards and backwards, its long axis pointing to the middle of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. At birth the ramus rises very slightly above the level of the body, and the angle is exceedingly obtuse. When, in consequence of loss of the teeth, the alveolar process is absorbed, the arch inclosed by the Fig. 219.—Edentulous Lower Jaw of Old Age. lower jaw is increased in size; and as loss of the upper teeth diminishes the size of the palate, the lower jaw may, in edentulous old age, pass over the palate and approach the nose. But absorption is not confined to the alveolar part ; it extends to the muscular surfaces; the angle becomes more and more obtuse, and the ramus shorter, reverting to the infantile form. THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid bone, though not accounted in human anatomy as part •of the skull, is nevertheless related to it in development, remains closely ■connected with it in many mammals, and belongs to cephalic, not to cervical, segments of the organism. It consists of a body and two pairs of cornua, which sometimes, especially the smaller pair, remain separate from the body. The body is elongated transversely, and compressed so as to lie in an oblique plane from above downwards and forwards; superficially, it is marked by two superior impressions which give attach- ment to muscles of the tongue, and two inferior depressions which receive muscles from below. The great cornua project backwards from the extremities of the body, and are rounded at the tips where the lateral thyrohyoid ligaments are attached. The small cornua, short and pointed, are connected with the tips of the styloid processes of the temporal bones by slender bands, the stylohyoid ligaments (Fig. 222).