THE MUSCLES. 306 EXTERNAL REGION OF THE LEG. The muscles of this region are the peroneus longus and the peroneus brevis. Their origins occupy the whole outer surface of the fibula with the exception of the lower fourth, and, for a little distance about the middle of the bone, overlap, the upper part of the brevis stretching upwards in front of the lower part of the longus. The origin of the longus is pierced by the external popliteal nerve. Intermuscular septa separate the two muscles from the extensor digitorum longus and peroneus tertius in front and the soleus and flexor hallucis longus behind. Above the ankle the muscles are continued into tendons which pass in company behind the external malleolus, then forwards under cover of the external annular ligament along the outer surface of the heel. The tendon of the brevis, which lies above the other, reaches the base of the fifth metatarsal, that of the longus is continued across the sole to the first metatarsal bone. A common synovial membrane invests both tendons behind the malleolus and under cover of the annular ligament, but splits into two where the tendons begin to separate. A second synovial membrane surrounds the tendon of the longus in the sole. The muscles are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The peroneus longus arises from the external surface of the head and the upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula; additional fibres spring from the intermuscular septa in front and behind, and from the external tuberosity of the tibia above. In the lower part of the leg it narrows to a tendon which passes behind the outer malleolus and forwards, first under cover of the external annular ligament, then along the outer surface of the calcaneum to the cuboid, in the groove of which bone it sweeps forwards and inwards into the sole. It is inserted into the tuberosity of the first metatarsal bone and the adjoining part of the internal cuneiform bone. In crossing the sole the tendon lies in contact with the bones, and is covered by a fibrous investment from the long plantar ligament. A sesamoid bone is sometimes found in the portion of the tendon which lies in the groove of the cuboid. The peroneus brevis arises from the middle two-fourths of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula; additional fibres spring from the intermus- cular septa in front and behind. Above the ankle it narrows to a tendon which passes behind the external malleolus, and is continued forwards, along the outer surface of the calcaneum and cuboid to the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, where it is inserted. Frequently the tendon sends a slip to the extensor tendon of the little toe. In passing round the malleolus the tendon lies in front of and afterwards above that of the peroneus longus. Variations of the muscles of the external region of the leg. The two peronei are sometimes partly united with one another, An additional muscle, the peroneus quartus, is sometimes found springing from the