484 THE VASCULAE SYSTEM. Veins of the Upper Limb. The superficial veins of the hand (Fig. 362). Although in each finger a couple of minute venae comites accompany each digital artery, the greater part of the returning blood passes through the meshes of a sub- cutaneous plexus to a couple of superficial dorsal veins. Above the clefts of the fingers the dorsal vessels from the contiguous sides of the neighbouring digits unite with one another, and the resulting trunks, passing upwards, enter on the back of the hand a large irregularly disposed plexus. From the outer border of the plexus the radial vein is prolonged, and from the inner border the posterior ulnar vein takes origin, and to a slight extent also the anterior ulnar. A number of small veins from the palm of the hand and the thenar eminence converge to form the median vein; a few branches from the inner side of the palm join the anterior ulnar vein. Numerous small communicating branches connect the deep and superficial veins of the palm. The superficial radial vein commences in the outer part of the dorsal plexus, and courses upwards along the outer border of the forearm, receiving numerous superficial tributaries. A little above the elbow, on the outer side of the biceps muscle, it unites with the median cephalic to form the cephalic vein. It communicates below with the deep veins of the palm, and higher up with the deep radial veins. The posterior superficial ulnar vein, arising from the inner extremity of the dorsal plexus, passes upwards on the posterior aspect of the fore- arm, receiving numerous tributaries which communicate with those of the radial and anterior ulnar veins. Below the elbow it is joined by the anterior ulnar vein, and a little above the level of the joint it unites, on the inner side of the biceps muscle, with the median basilic to form the basilic vein. A considerable communicating branch passes between the lower part of the vein and the deep ulnar veins. The anterior superficial ulnar vein, smaller than the posterior, which it joins a little below the elbow, commences near the wrist, and ascends along the ulnar border of the forearm. Its tributaries communicate freely with those of the veins on either side of it. The superficial median vein (Fig. 363) ascends along the front of the forearm. At the hollow of the elbow it is joined by the deep median vein, a large communicating branch from the ulnar and radial venae comites. The resulting trunk immediately divides into the median cephalic and median basilic veins. The tributaries of the median vein are derived from the palm of the hand and the front of the forearm, and communicate freely with those of the neighbouring superficial trunks. The median cephalic vein passes upwards and outwards to join the superficial radial vein. The median basilic vein passes upwards and inwards to join the posterior superficial ulnar vein; it rests behind on the semilunar fascia of the biceps, which separates it from the brachial