THE REPEODUCTIVE OEGANS. 776 whole series lying buried beneath the globus major of that duct. Like both epididymis and vas deferens, the vas efFerentia and coni vasculosi have ciliated columnar epithelium and membrana propria, with muscular fibres outside. The epididymis, when dissected out, is found to consist of one elongated tube about a sixtieth of an inch in diameter in the globus major, and diminishing to a third of that diameter as it is followed to the globus minor, in which it again enlarges, prior to being continued into the vas deferens. It is three times folded on itself, first into uniform close-set semicircular waves, then backwards and forwards, and lastly in larger backward and forward folds, so as to produce lobes separated from others by loose connective tissue. It begins in a blind extremity, and receives the coni vasculosi in series at short intervals. The whole tube is indubit- ably twelve feet at least in length, and has even been estimated at twenty feet or more. The wall presents beneath the columnar epithelial cells a layer of rounded nuclei, and round the membrana propria a thin stratum of muscular fibres. The vas aberrans (Haller) is a tubule coiled on itself of about the same diameter as the epididymis, and opening into that duct where it is con- tinued into the vas deferens. It may reach to eight inches or more in length, but may be absent, and is said sometimes to be unconnected with the epididymis. It lies in the concavity between epididymis and vas deferens, and would appear to be a vestigial structure, resulting from processes in development not yet sufficiently studied. The vas deferens is continuous with the epididymis where that duct has reached the lower end of the globus minor. It turns upwards behind the testicle, internal to the spermatic vessels and nerves, enlarging rapidly while in contact with the globus minor, and getting less tortuous till it reaches more than half way up the back of the testicle. It there becomes straight and has already acquired a uniform cylindrical shape with dense walls of such thickness and firmness as to make it feel like whip cord. It extends upwards in the spermatic cord, behind the spermatic vessels and nerves, to the external abdominal ring, traverses along with them the inguinal canal, and, on reaching the internal inguinal ring, quits them and, turning down over the external iliac vessels, enters the pelvis and sweeps downwards in contact with the bladder. It crosses backwards between the bladder and ureter to reach the posterior edge of the base of the prostate gland, where it terminates by joining with the outlet of the vesicula seminalis to form the ejaculatory duct. In this course it is about sixteen to twenty inches long. In the last two inches, where it is internal to the ureter, it becomes dilated and sacculated, forming a sort of elongated ampulla before ultimately narrowing again at its termination. The vas deferens has an outer coat of loose fibrous tissue, and a strong muscular wall in which three layers are distinguished, an outer and an inner of longitudinal fibres, and an intervening layer of circular fibres,