THE REPEODUCTIVE ORGANS. 798 scrotum before the testicle has quite entered it. The gubernaculum presents a band extending from the fascia transversalis to the bottom of the scrotum, with fibres passing upwards and downwards on it from the different depths of the abdominal wall, and a projection into the pouch of the tunica vaginalis, inclosed in a fold called plica gubernatrix; but the contents of the plica do not extend beyond the pouch of the processus vaginalis, and the cremaster muscle is from the first directed downwards. The descent of the testicle sometimes fails to be completed on one or both sides, in which case the patient is called a monorchid or cryptorchid. This failure of descent may or may not be accompanied with arrest in size. Sometimes descent proceeds again in the young adult and gives trouble in the inguinal canal. External organs. Before the fifth week there is a cloaca common to the rectum and genito-urinary organs. By the eighth week the anus is completely separated as a rounded orifice from the genito-urinary opening, which forms in both sexes a mesial slit, surmounted by an organ which may be developed either into clitoris or penis. Thereafter, the margins of this aperture come together in the male to form the raphe of the scrotum and the wall of the spongy part of the urethra, while in the female they remain separate as the nymphae and labia majora. The corpora cavernosa appear separatel}^ and afterwards unite. LUM IN Foetus of Fifth Month. a,Testis; b, vas deferens ; c, processus vaginalis slit open ; d, plica gubernatrix ; e, the cavity described by Weber as a shut sac ; ff, fibres inserted inferiorly in a bundle into the scrotum, and superiorly into the abdominal wall; g, fibres to the pro- cessus vaginalis; h, internal oblique muscle; i, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle ; k, integument reflected down. Fig. 625.—Dissection of a Mamma in Active Condition. The nipple is left undissected. On it are seen the openings of the galactophorous ducts, and, beyond it, their ampullae embedded in connective tissue, while the lobules are round about.