THE VASCULAR SYSTEM. 464 The metatarsal artery passes outwards upon the bases of the metatarsal bones, underneath the extensor tendons. It detaches the dorsal interosseous arteries of the three outer spaces. The dorsal inierosseous branches pass for- wards upon the interosseous muscles and at the clefts of the toes divide, like the corresponding arteries of the hand, into dorsal collateral branches, which run forwards upon the digits, anastomosing on the sides of the toes with the branches of the plantar digital vessels. Each interosseous trunk is connected with the external plantar artery by a posterior perforating branch, and with the plantar digital artery of its space by an anterior perforating branch; the most external trunk gives off a branch for the outer side of the little toe. The dorsal arteries of the foot are comparatively larger than those of the hand. Becurrent branches pass from the metatarsal artery to anastomose with offsets of the tarsal artery. The first dorsal interosseous artery, given off before the main stem enters the sole, passes forward and supplies digital branches to both sides of the great toe and the inner side of the second toe, and is connected by an anterior perforating branch with the plantar digital artery of its space. The arteria princeps hallucis (Fig. 350), the innermost plantar digital artery, springs from the termination of the doi'sal artery of the foot; it passes forwards in the first interosseous space, detaches a branch to the inner side of the great toe, aud divides to supply the contiguous sides of the great and the second toes. Its innermost branch inosculates with the termination of the internal plantar artery. The Posterior Tibial Artery. The posterior tibial artery (Fig. 349), arising from the termination of the popliteal trunk, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, descends upon the back of the leg with a slight inclination inwards, resting in suc- cession upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the lower end of the tibia, and the capsule of the ankle-joint; it terminates midway between the internal malleolus and the centre of the prominence of the heel, by dividing into the internal and external plantar arteries. In the upper two- thirds of its course it is deeply placed in front of the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and a deep layer of the fascia. Lower down, by the inner margin of the tendo Achillis, it is comparatively superficial, being covered only by the fascia. It terminates under cover of the internal annular ligament and the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle. As it descends behind the malleolus it lies between the tendons of the flexor digitorum longus internally and the flexor hallucis longus externally, and occupies a special fibrous sheath placed between those of the tendons, and slightly superficial to them. It is accompanied through its whole course by two venae comites and by the posterior tibial nerve, which crosses it pos- teriorly from the inner to the outer side, about an inch and a half below the popliteus muscle. It gives off numerous small muscular branches,