THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 115 by anterior and posterior sacral foramina, bounded externally by a solid block, the lateral mass. The sacral vertebrae diminish rapidly, from the first, which is the most massive in the column, to the fifth, which is rudiment- ar}^; and thus they constitute a wedge-shaped bone, the base of which articulates with the last lumbar vertebra by a body and articular processes, and is continued laterally into an expansion curving over to the ventral surface. The ventral surface forms the back of the pelvis, and is concave from base to apex and slightly so from side to side. Mesially it is separated from the base by an acute angle, and projects forwards into the pelvic cavity, forming the sacral promontory. Below this, a series of four transverse linear eleva- tions indicate permanently the borders of the five bodies of vertebrae, and extend to the abrupt internal margins of the anterior sacral foramina, whose external margins slope outwards in the form of deep grooves corresponding with the courses of the anterior divisions of sacral nerves. The dorsal surface is convex both longitudinally and trans- versely. It presents in the middle line a series of spines, usually three or four in number ; while inferiorly the laminae of the fifth vertebra, or of the fourth and fifth, faihng to meet, leave the lower end of the sacral canal imperfect behind. Sometimes the laminae of the third and second vertebra have the like imperfection, and in rare instances the sacral canal is open in its whole length, without a single spine over it. Separated from the middle line by the series of united laminae are two rows of tubercles in series with the well-developed mammillary processes of the first sacral vertebra, and external to these are the jmterior sacral foramina, smaller than the anterior, and giving passage to the posterior divisions of sacral nerves. External to the posterior sacral foramina is an outer line of ridges representing the tips of transverse processes, and separating the dorsal from the lateral surfaces. The lateral surfaces belong to costal elements additional to trans- verse processes, absent from lumbar vertebrae, and exhibited in childhood in the three upper sacral vertebrae by additional centres of ossification. To this addition is due the stoutness of the lateral masses. On the Fig. 127.—-First and Second Sacral Vertebrae sawn sepai-ate, seen from above. A, Base of sacrum : a, articu- lar process ; h, transverse process; c, lateral mass. B, Second sacral vertebra : d, portion of arch of first verte- bra sawn away witli the second; e, f and g have the lines proceeding from them lying i-espectively in the intervertebral, the posterior and the anterior sacral fora- men, showing how the intervertebral foramen is bifurcated by the union of the lateral masses of succeeding vertebrae.