THE MUSCLES. 360 The ilio-costalis {sacro-lumhalis—ilio-costalis lumborum), the basal muscle of the outer column, is inserted by tendons into the angles of the six lower ribs, and gives a slip to the musculus accessorius. The musculus accessorius (ilio-costalis dorsi), the second portion of the column, springs by tendons from the angles of the six lower ribs, and is inserted in like manner into the angles of the six upper ribs and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. Its tendons of origin are internal to those of insertion of the ilio-costalis. The cervicalis ascendens (ilio-costalis cervicis), the highest portion of the outer column, receives a slip from the musculus accessorius, and springs by tendons from the angles of the sixth and three or four of the higher ribs. It is inserted by short tendons into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae. Its tendons of origin are internal to those of insertion of the musculus accessorius. The spinalis dorsi is a narrow set of musculo-tendinous bundles attached to the sides of the spines of the thoracic vertebrae, and passing from the lower to the higher of these. It is freely connected at its edge with the longissimus dorsi, and on its deep surface with the semispinalis muscle. The longissimus dorsi, the basal muscle of the inner column, thick and fleshy, is inserted along the whole length of its outer and inner margins. Externally it is attached in the lumbar region by muscular slips to the transverse processes of the vertebrae and the intervening portions of the middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and in the thoracic region by a series of delicate musculo-tendinous slips to the eight or nine lower ribs between their tubercles and their angles. Internally it is attached by a set of rounded tendons, which in the lumbar region pass to the accessory processes and in the thoracic region to the tranverse processes of all the vertebrae. Some of its fibres are continued above into the upper muscles of the column. The transversalis cervicis (longissimus cervicis) springs by delicate tendons, placed internally to those of the longissimus dorsi, from the transverse processes of the four or five upper thoracic vertebrae and that of the last cervical. It is inserted by tendons into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the sixth. The trachelo-mastoid (longissirnus capitis), in close connection with the inner surface of the transversalis cervicis, takes origin by tendons from the transverse processes of the two or three upper thoracic vertebrae, and from the roughnesses on the sides of the articular processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrae. It forms a thin muscular sheet, and is inserted into the posterior region of the outer surface of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius capitis. A tendinous intersection crosses the upper part of the muscle. The complexus, a strong fleshy mass, arises from the articular processes of the lower four or five cervical vertebrae, and from the transverse processes of the upper six or seven thoracic vertebrae, and at its inner