6 GENERAL ANATOMY. Fig. 1.—Nucleated Corpuscles from the tissvie investing the amnion of an embryo lamb. The threads of spongioplasm are made evident by staining. It probably, however, always possesses some amount of the contractility which is more highly developed in muscle. This property of contractility is exhibited very evidently in unwalled corpuscles found in the blood and in the connective tissues, and in them takes the form of a power to throw out processes and generally to change their shape in every direction, like the minute animals called Amoebae; hence such corpuscles are called amoeboid or wandering. It is as yet impossible to say if protoplasm has for its basis a single definite chemical substance, or what its precise composition is in the living state, but it is of highly complex nitrogenous J|j^^i>p^^ constitution, coagulable with heat, J-^^^^,-^--^ ^^--^ soluble in alkalies, belongs, so far as can be ascertained, to the albuminoid group, and is easily subjected to staining. It may present an almost uniform appearance, or may be dis- tinctly granular. This granular appear- ance may be due to molecules of oil, lecithin, or other substance; and the analogy of muscular contraction would suggest that there is always some other substance besides the main chemical constituent present necessary for the exhibition of contractility. Even, however, apart from granules and fluids which may be mixed with it, protoplasm is now held by investigators who have given special attention to the subject to be resolvable into a network or sijongioplasm^ and an amorphous material or hyaloplasm in the meshes. Nuclei are firmer bodies, spherical, flattened or elongated, with a regular outline so definite that it must be regarded as a membrane. They often occur without apparent protoplasm around them. They are more susceptible of staining than is protoplasm, and have been found to exhibit at times a close network of threads within them, of specially stainable character, and embedded in unstainable substance. Nuclei often contain one or more highly refractive bodies in their interior, nucleoli, which may stain more deeply still. Multiplication of nucleated corpuscles. Nuclei have been long known to play an important part in the multiplication of corpuscles. It was seen that a nucleus became divided into two nuclei before the surroundino- protoplasm divided, and that this occurred both in cells surrounded with cell-walls and in corpuscles not so surrounded; and the whole process was termed fissiparous division, to distinguish it from budding or the separation of a small portion of the protoplasm (gemmiparoiis division). It is now known that very complicated changes take place in nuclei prior to their dividing, and these processes constitute what is called karyokinesis or mitosis. They occur very generally; and it is supposed that direct division