531 THE SACRAL PLEXUS. to the obturator internus from the second and third sacral trunks ; the nerve to the quadratus femoris from the third sacral trunk ; and some visceral branches from the second, third, and fourth sacral trunks. The lumbo-sacral cord descends over the base of the sacrum; the other trunks escape by the anterior sacral foramina. Uniting with one another, they rest upon the pyriformis muscle, and all the branches, with the exception of the visceral nerves and the nerve to the pyriformis, escape from the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The lumbo-sacral cord and the first two sacral trunks are of large size, the third and fourth sacral are comparatively small. Each of the trunks is connected with the sym pathetic by a short branch of communication. The superior gluteal nerve (Fig. 396), from the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral trunk, escapes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, in company with the gluteal artery. It ramifies between the gluteus medius and minimus, supplying them both, and sends its terminal branch forwards through their conjoined anterior margins to the tensor vaginae femoris. The inferior gluteal nerve, from the first and second sacral trunks, escapes with the sciatic artery below the pyriformis muscle; it breaks up into numerous branches which supply the gluteus maximus, entering it on its deep surface. It is frequently partially incorporated with the small sciatic nerve. The small sciatic nerve, from the second and third sacral trunks, is cutaneous in its distribution. It leaves the pelvis below the pyri- formis, and descends along the middle line of the posterior surface of the limb, as far as the calf of the leg. After escaping from the cover of the gluteus maximus it descends in the thigh beneath the fascia lata, and becomes subcutaneous at the level of the knee. It distributes from both sides numerous branches to the integument, and near its termination com- municates with the short saphenous nerve. Four or five branches of considerable size turn backwards at the inferior border of the gluteus maximus muscle and end in the skin of the lower part of the gluteal region. One offset, the pudendal branch, courses inwards and forwards below the tuberosity of the ischium to the scrotum or labium. The nerve to the obturator internus, from the second and third sacral trunks, escapes below the pyriformis along with the pudic artery, and bending round the ischial spine re-enters the pelvis by the small sacro- sciatic foramen to reach the inner surface of the muscle. On its way it supplies a twig to the gemellus superior. The nerve to the quadratus femoris, from the third sacral trunk, escaping below the pyriformis, passes downwards on the deep surface of the gemelli muscles, the lower of which it supplies on its way. It enters the quadratus on the deep surface. The pudic nerve (Fig. 395), derived from the third and fourth sacral trunks, and occasionally from the second, escapes below the pyriformis,