665 THE EYE. under the microscope a homogeneous hio.loido-capsidar membrane behind the recognised suspensory or zonular fibres. But neither the suspensory ligament nor the canal of Petit can be completely studied by means of sections, especially very thin sections. If perfectly fresh eyes are treated with exceedingly weak bichromate of potash, to which spirit is afterwards added, the pigmented corpuscles and those of the ciliary part of the retina have their cement dissolved and allow the transparent structures, including the middle part of the zonular fibres, to separate easily from the recesses peripheral to the iris. It is then seen that the zonular fibres take rise from the hyaloid membrane beyond the fossa patellaris, and are inserted into the front of the capsule of the lens by flattened attachments. Successful injections display converging straight thread-like passages ex- tending from the canal of Petit a little way on the front of the capsule. The part of the suspensory ligament fastened in the fresh state to the recesses round the iris exhibits hollow prominences; and these have unpigmented corpuscles adherent to them which are probably the structures described as ciliary glands. Development of the Eye. The eye is developed partly from the brain and partly from the surface of the embyo; the retina and choroid being in fact portions of the brain and pia mater, while the lens is of cuticular origin, and the sclerotic, cornea, iris and vitreous body are derived from intervening mesoblast. Fig. 502.—Diagram of Development of Eye. a, Conjunctival epithelium ; h, lens- fibres continuous with deepest epithelial layer ; c, neck of primary optic vesicle ; d, secondary optic vesicle ; e, e, pia mater; f, g, choroid coat and the retinal artery both continued from the pia mater ; h, nervous substance continued into retina ; i, epithelium I of ventricle continuous with pigmented epithelium ; Ic, epithelium of ventricle continuous with bacillai-y layer. The cerebral part of the eye is the earliest to appear, and begins in the chick at the end of the first day of hatching, in connection with the first cerebral vesicle, as a rounded lateral portion, the primary optic vesicle, I nearly as large as the mesial portion or first vesicle proper, and separated I from it by a partition which rises up from the ventral aspect and reaches • back to the middle line at the constriction between the first and second cerebral vesicles, where it meets its fellows to form the anterior edge of the future optic commissure. Thus the vesicle becomes pedunculated, and