395 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE PERINEUM. small sacro-sciatic ligaments; above, it reaches to the white line, where it becomes continuous with the anal fascia. It lines the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, and in a special canal in its substance the pudic vessels and nerves run forwards in a portion of their course. The anal fascia is a delicate layer which covers the under surface of the levator ani, and lines the inner wall of the ischio-rectal fossa. The subpubic fascia or triangular ligament of the urethra. Two layers of fascia, constituting together the triangular ligament of the urethra, stretch from side to side in the anterior part of the perineum. They are pierced by the membranous part of the urethra in the male, and by the urethra and vagina in the female, and between the two lie the constrictor urethrae muscle, the pudic vessels and nerves in a portion of their course, and Cowper's or Bartholin's gland, according to the sex. The anterior or imder layer of the triangular ligament, moderatel}^ strong, is attached in front to the subpubic ligament, and at the sides to the inner lips of the rami, extending as far back as the tuberosity. At its posterior edge it is united with the posterior layer of the ligament, and with Colles' fascia, which to join it turns round the superficial transverse muscle. In the male it is pierced in the middle line, about an inch from the symphysis, by the urethra, which almost immediately after enters the penis. The posterior part of the spongy body ter- minating in the bulb, and the crura of the penis, lie upon its anterior surface. The vessels of the corpora cavernosa and those of the bulb pass through it as do also, close to the symphysis, the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The posterior or upper la?jer of the triangular ligament lies upon the upper surface of the constrictor urethrae muscle, and separates it from the anterior part of the levator ani. Traced from either side it passes inwards from the inner margin of the ramus, where, at its attachment to the bone, it is continuous with the anterior part of the obturator fascia. In the male it reaches the middle line at the base of the prostate, and is there continuous with the recto-vesical fascia which forms the sheath of the gland. The urethra as it is leaving the prostate passes through it. At its posterior border it is blended with the anterior layer of the ligament, and is i^ierced by the pudic vessels and nerves as they pass forwards. In the female the lateral portions traced inwards reach the vaginal wall where they blend with the recto-vesical fascia. The ischio-rectal fossa. At the posterior part of the perineum there lies on each side, between the wall of the bowel and the tuberosity of the ischium, a considerable space named the ischio-rectal fossa, which is filled with fat and traversed by branches of the pudic vessels and nerves. In cross section the space is triangular in outline, having the skin and fascia stretching between the anal opening and the tuberosity as its base. The outer wall is formed by the obturator fascia clothing the lower part of the obturator internus muscle, the inner wall by the levator ani