Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2172510x_0001QUAIN’S ANATOMY.QUAIN’S ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY EDITED BY ALLEN THOMSON, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., F.R.S. FORMERLY PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GLASGOW EDWARD ALBERT SCHAFER, F.R.S. ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON AND GEORGE DANCER THANE, PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, LONDON ILLUSTRATED BY 380 ENGRAVINGS, OF WHICH 78 ARE COLOURED. JAinti) (Station. LONDON: LONGMANS, GREEN, AND C0.: 1882.LONDON : BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.THIS NINTH EDITION OF “ QUAIN'S ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY ” IS DEDICATED TO THE MEMORY OF WILLIAM SHARPEY, M.D., LL.D., E.R.S. FORMERLY PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIOLOGY IN UNIVERSITY' COLLEGE, LONDON, AND DURING THIRTY-FIVE YEARS ONE OF THE EDITORS OF THE WORK.ADVERTISEMENT TO THE NINTH EDITION. The first four Editions of “ Quain’s Elements of Anatomy ” ■were the work of the late Dr. Jones Quain ; and it has been deemed advisable still to retain the title by which the book lias been so long known, notwithstanding that in passing through the succeeding four Editions, and that which now appears, it has undergone alterations so extensive and fundamental that little of the original text now remains. Of these later Editions, the fifth was brought out under the editorship of Professor Ilichard Quain and Dr. Sharpev; the sixth was edited by Dr. Sliarpey and Professor Ellis ; the seventh by Dr. Sharpey and Dr. Allen Thomson, in association with Professor Cleland; and the eighth by Dr. Sharpey, Dr. Thomson, and Mr. Schafer. In this Ninth Edition the whole work has been subjected to a thorough revision, and such additions and improvements have been introduced as seemed necessary, without materially altering its form. In the First Volume, the revision of which has been carried out by Professor Thane, the figures of the Blood-vessels have been coloured, and a Chapter has been added on Superficial and Topo- graphical Anatomy, in the compilation of which the Editor has had the assistance of Mr. R. J. Godlee, M.B., M.S. Bond. In the Second Volume, the revision of the greater part, comprehending the Histology and the Special Anatomy of the Viscera, is the work ofADVERTISEMENT. viii Mr. Schafer, and the remaining part, or that on Embryology, of Dr. Thomson. Very considerable changes have been made in the departments of Histology, the Central Nervous System, and Embryology. In connection with his part of the work, Mr. Schafer desires to acknowledge the assistance he has received from the systematic works of Henle, Luschka, W. Krause, and Schwalbe, and from Klein’s “Atlas of Histology,’’ and Kanvier’s “ Traite technique d’histologie.’’ And Dr. Thomson has to ac- knowledge his obligations to the new edition of Kolliker’s “ Entwicklungsgeschiclite,” to His’s “ Anatomie Mensclilicher Embryonen,” and to the “ Comparative Embryology ” of the lamented F. M. Balfour. A considerable number of new figures have been introduced into the present Edition, some having been substituted for former ones now withdrawn, others added as new illustrations. They are partly from original drawings, and partly electrotype copies of figures in other published works, for their courtesy in allowing copies of which the Editors have to thank the respective Authors and Publishers. October, 1882.CONTENTS. ELEMENTS OP ANATOMY. PAGE Introduction i Object of Anatomy ........... I General and Descriptive Anatomy ........ i Plan of Organization : Vertebrate Type 2 Arrangement ............ 6 OSTEOLOGY. PAGE Inferior Turbinate Bone 54 PAGE Inferior Maxillary Bone 55 The Skeleton and Bones Hyoid Bone.... 57 generally . 7 The Skull as a Whole 57 I. The Vertebral Column 9 The Sutures . . . 57 Vertebra} 9 External Surface of the General Characters 9 Skull .... 58 Groups of Vertebra} 10 Interior of the Cranium 64 Cervical Vertebra; 10 Nasal Cavities and Com- Dorsal Vertebra; 12 municating Air-Sinuses 67 Lumbar Vertebra; 14 Ossification of the Bones of Sacral Vertebra; 15 the Head . . . . 6S Coccygeal Vertebra* . 17 General Morphology of The Vertebral Column as a the Bones of the whole 18 Head .... 74 Ossification of the Vertebra; 20 Classified List of the Bones General and Serial Homo- of the Head, and their logy of the Vertebrae 22 Typical Component Parts 75 II. The Thorax . 26 Various Forms of Skull 79 The Sternum or Breast-Bone 26 IV. Bones of the Upper Limf. . 84 The Ribs 27 Clavicle . . ... 84 The Costal Cartilages . 29 Scapula .... 86 The Thorax as a whole. 29 Humerus 88 Ossification of the Ribs and Ulna 91 Sternum . 30 Radius . . . . . 93 III. The Bones of the Head 32 Carpus .... 94 Occipital Bone 32 Scaphoid Bone . . . 95 Parietal Bone 34 Semilunar Bone 95 Frontal Bone . 36 Pyramidal Bone . 95 Temporal Bone 38 Pisiform Bone . 96 Sphenoid Bone 42 Trapezium Bone . . . 96 Ethmoid Bone 45 Trapezoid Bone 96 Superior Maxillary Bone. 47 Os Magnum . . . 96 Palate Bone. 5° Unciform Bone 97 Vomer .... 52 Metacarpus . . . 97 Malar Bone . 53 Digital Phalanges 98 Nasal Bone 54 Ossification of the Bones of Lachrymal Bone . 54 the Upper Limb. 99CONTENTS. X PAGE Y. The Pelvis and Lower Limb . . . . 104 Hip-bone .... 104 Ilium 105 Os Pubis .... 106 Ischium . . . . 106 The Pelvis . . . .108 Position of Pelvis . . 109 Differences according to Sex . . . .110 Femur . . . ..ill Patella . . . .115 Tibia . . . 115 Fibula . . . .117 Tarsus 119 C'alcaneum or Os Calais . 119 Astragalus . . 120 Navicular Bone . . 121 Cuneiform Bones. . . 121 Cuboid Bone . . .121 Metatarsus . . . . 122 Phalanges . . . .123 The Bones of the Foot as a Whole . . . . 123 Ossification of the Bones of the Lower Limb . -123 Morphology of the Bones of the Limbs . . 128 Relation to the Axial Skeleton . . . 12S Homological Comparison of Upper and Lower Limbs. . ..128 Shoulder and Pelvic Girdles . . .129 Bones of the Limbs . 131 Hand and Foot . . 132 Table of the Homologous Bones in the Thoracic and Pelvic Limbs . 134 Carpus and Tarsus . 134 Scapula and Ilium . . 135 Adaptation of the Skeleton to the Erect Attitude . 135 ARTHROLOGY. Tiie Articulations in General 137 Various Forms of Joints . 137 Various kinds of Movement . 138 Articulations of the Trunk and Head 139 Articulations of the Vertebral Column . . . -139 Articulations of the Atlas, Axis, and Occipital Bone . . 143 Articulations of the Ribs . .146 Temporo-Maxillary Articula- tion . .... 149 Articulations of the Upper Limb 151 The Scapulo-Clavicular Arch . 151 Sterno-Clavicular Articulation 151 PAGE Scapulo-Clavicular Articula- tions . . . . . 152 Ligaments of the Scapula . 153 The Shoulder-Joint . . . 153 Articulations of the Bones of the Forearm . . . . 155 Superior Radio-Ulnar Articu- lation . . . . . 155 Inferior Radio-Ulnar Articula- tion 155 The Elbow-Joint . . .157 The Wrist-Joint and Articula- tions of the Hand . . . 158 Radio-Carpal Articulation . 158 Carpal Articulations . .160 Carpo-Metacarpal and Inter- inetacarpal Articulations . 161 Metacarpo-Phalangeal and I11- terplialangeal Articulations. 162 Articulations of the Pelvis 164 Articulation of the Pelvis with the last Lumbar Vertebra . 164 Articulation of the Sacrum and Coccyx, and of the Pieces of the Coccyx. . . .165 Sacro-Iliac Articulation . . 166 Articulations of the Lower Limb 168 The Hip-Joint . . . . 168 The Knee-Joint. . . . 171 Tibio-Fibular Articulations . 177 The Ankle-Joint . . . . 177 Articulations of the Foot . .178 Articulations of the Calca- neum, Astragalus, and Navi- cular Bones . . . . 178 Calcaneo-Cuboid Articulation. 180 Articulations of the Navicular, Cuboid, and Cuneiform Bones .... 181 Articulation of the Tarsus with the Metatarsus . . . 182 Metatarso-Phalangeal and In-V terplialangeal Articulations 184 MYOLOGY. The Muscles in General. . 186 Fascia: 189 Muscles and Fascia: of the Upper Limb . . .190 Between the Trunk and Upper Limb posteriorly . . . 190 Between the Trunk and Upper Limb anteriorly. . .196 Actions of the Muscles between the Trunk and Upper Limb 201 Muscles and Fascia; of the Shoulder 202 Muscles and Fascia of the Upper Arm 207 Muscles and Fascia; of the Fore- arm . . . . . 21131 CONTEXTS. PAGE Pronator ami Flexor Muscles 213 Supinator and Extensor Muscles 218 Muscles and Fascia; of tlic Hand 224 Muscles of the Thumb . . 225 Muscles of the Little Finger . 227 Interosseous Muscles . . 227 Actions of the Muscles of the Fore- arm and Hand . . . 229 Muscles and Fascia of the Lower Limb . . . 230 Fascia; of the Hip and Thigh . 230 Muscles of the Hip . . . 232 1 Posterior Femoral or Ham- string Muscles . . 238 Anterior Muscles of the Thigh 240 Internal Femoral or Adductor Muscles 246 Muscles and Fasciae of the Leg . 248 Anterior Region . . . 250 External Region . . . 252 Posterior Region . . . 253 Muscles and Fascia; of the Foot 260 Dorsal Muscle . . . 261 Plantar Muscles . . . 262 First layer of Muscles . . 262 Second layer . . . 263 Third layer . . . . 263 Fourth layer . . . 265 Actions of the Muscles of the Leg and Foot . . . . 266 Morphology of the Limb- Muscles .... 266 Table of Muscular Homologies in the Upper and Lower Limbs 268 Muscles and Fascia: of the Head and Neck . . . 270 Epicranial Region . . . 270 Auricular Muscles . . 271 Muscles of the Eyelids and Eye- brows .... 273 Muscles of the Nose . . . 275 Muscles of the Lips and Mouth . 277 Muscles of the Orbit . . .281 Muscles of Mastication . . . 285 Subcutaneous Muscle of the N eck 288 Muscles and Fascia; of the Neck anteriorly .... 288 Infrahyoid Muscles . . . 290 Suprahyoid Muscles . . . 292 Muscles of the Tongue . . . 295 Muscles of the Pharynx . . 297 Muscles of the Soft Palate . . 300 Deep Lateral and Prevertebral Muscles of the Neck . . 302 Muscles and Fasci.u of the Trunk .... 305 Dorsal Muscles and Fascia; . . 305 Muscles of the Thorax . .314 Movements of Respiration . . 320 Muscles and Fascia; of the Ab- domen .... 322 Lining Fascia of the Abdomen . 333 Muscles and Fascia; of the Peri- neum and Pelvis . . . 334 l'AGE Fascia; of the Perineum . . 334 Fasciae of the Pelvis . . . 336 Muscles : A. in the Male . 339 13. in the Female . 343 Morphology of the Fascia: and Muscles of the Trunk and Head . . . 344 ANGEIOLOGY. P>lood-Vessels ; Arteries and Veins Pulmonary Artery and Veins . Systemic Arteries Aorta Arch of the Aorta Varieties of the Aorta and Pul- monary Artery Branches of the Arch of the Aorta .... Coronary Arteries. . . . Innominate Artery . Common Carotid Arteries . . Surgical Anatomy of the Com- mon Carotid Artery . External Carotid Artery . . Branches .... Internal Carotid Artery Branches .... Distribution of the Cerebral Arteries. . . . . Subclavian Arteries . Branches . . . . . Surgical Anatomy of the Sub- clavian Arteries Axillary Artery .... Branches . . . . . Brachial Artery Branches ... . . Ulnar Artery .... Branches ..... Superficial Palmar Arch Radial Artery . . . . Branches .... Deep Palmar Arch . . . Descending Thoracic Aorta Branches Abdominal Aorta A. —Visceral Branches of the Abdominal Aorta . B. —Parietal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta Minute Anastomoses of the Visceral and Parietal Branches of the Abdominal Aorta Middle Sacral Artery Common Iliac Artery . . . Internal Iliac Artery. Hypogastric Artery . . . Branches of the Internal Iliac Artery 347 35° 35i 351 352 355 358 358 360 360 365 366 367 381 382 386 3§7 392 402 404 406 409 410 416 417 421 423 423 427 430 431 433 435 445 447 448 448 450 451 451CONTENTS. xii External Iliac Artery . . . Branches .... Femoral Artery . . . . Branches .... Surgical Anatomy of the Femoral Artery Popliteal Artery Branches . . . . . Posterior Tibial Artery Branches Plantar Arteries Anterior Tibial Artery . Dorsal Artery of the Foot . Systemic Veins . . . . Veins of the Heart . Superior Vena Cava . . . Innominate Veins Veins of the Head and Neck ... . . Venous Circulation within the Cranium .... Veins of the Brain Venous Sinuses of the Cranium Ophthalmic Veins . Veins of the Diploe . Emissary Veins Veins of the Upper Limb Superficial Veins . Deep Veins . . . . Subclavian Vein . Azygos Veins . . . . Veins of the Spine . Inferior Vena Cava . . . Common Iliac Veins . Veins of the Lower Limb and Pelvis .... Superficial Veins of the Lower Limb Deep Veins of the Lower Limb External Iliac Vein Veins of the Pelvis . . . Internal Iliac Vein Portal System of Veins . . Absorbent Vessels . Thoracic Duct . . . . Right Lymphatic Duct Lymphatics of the Lower Limb . Lymphatics of the Pelvis and Abdomen . . . . Lymphatics of the Thorax . Lymphatics of the Upper Limb . Lymphatics of the Head and Neck . . . . PAGE 462 464 465 468 473 474 475 478 478 480 483 485 488 488 490 490 493 coo 500 502 506 5°7 508 508 508 5" 512 512 5i5 5i7 5i9 5i9 5i9 521 1522 522 522 524 527 527 529 529 53i 535 537 539 NEUROLOGY. The Cerebrg-Spinal Nerves . 542 Cranial Nerves . . . 542 Connection with Encephalon . 543 Mode of Exit from the Uranium. 545 General Distribution. . . 548 I. Olfactory Nerves . . 549 II. Optic Nerve . . . . 550 III. Oculomotor Nerve Position of Nerves at the Cavernous Sinus and as they enter the Orbit . . IV. Trochlear Nerve V. Trifacial Nerve . . . Ophthalmic Nerve . Ophthalmic Ganglion Superior Maxillary Nerve Spheno-Palatine Ganglion Inferior Maxillary Nerve Submaxillary Ganglion . Otic Ganglion VI. Abducent Nerve . . . VII. Facial Nerve VIII. Auditory Nerve . . . IX. Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve . X. Pneumo-Gastric Nerve XI. Spinal Accessory Nerve XII. Hypoglossal Nerve. . Spinal Nerves . . . . The Roots of the Spinal Nerves . Posterior Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves Suboccipital Nerve . Cervical Nerves Dorsal Nerves . . . . Lumbar Nerves Sacral Nerves . . . . Coccygeal Nerves . Anterior Primary Divisions of the Spinal Nerves . . . Cervical Nerves Suboccipital Nerve . . Second Cervical Nerve Cervical Plexus. . . . Superficial Ascending Bran- ches .... Superficial Descending Bran- ches . . , . Deep Branches : Internal Series .... Deep Branches : External Series . . . . Brachial Plexus Branches above the Clavicle Branches below the Clavicle Anterior Thoracic Nerves Subscapular Nerves . . Circumflex Nerve . Internal Cutaneous Nerve Small Internal Cutaneous Nerve . . . . Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve Ulnar Nerve . Median Nerve . . . Musculo-Spiral Nerve Radial Nerve . . . Posterior Interosseous Nerve .... Dorsal Nerves . . . . First Dorsal Nerve Upper or Pectoral Intercos- tal Nerves . . . PAGE 55° 552 552 553 555 557 559 562 564 568 568 57o 57o 575 575 578 586 587 590 591 593 593 593 595 596 596 596 597 597 597 597 598 599 6co 600 602 603 603 606 606 606 607 607 609 609 610 612 614 615 616 617 617 619CONTENTS, xiii rAGE Lower or Abdominal Inter- costal Nerves . . . 620 Last Dorsal Nerve . . . 620 Lumbar Nerves . . . 621 : Lumbar Plexus. . . 621 Ilio-Hypogastric and Ilio- inguinal Nerves . . 621 Genito-Crural Nerve . . 623 External Cutaneous Nerve . 624 Obturator Nerve . . . 625 Anterior Crural Nerve . 627 Fifth Lumbar Nerve . . 630 Sacral and Coccygeal Nerves . 630 Fourth Sacral Nerve . .631 Fifth Sacral Nerve . . 631 Coccygeal Nerve . .631 Sacral Plexus . . . . 631 Collateral Branches . . 633 Small Muscular Branches 633 Superior Gluteal Nerve . 635 Inferior Gluteal Nerve . 635 Small Sciatic Nerve . 635 Perforating Cutaneous Nerve.... 636 Terminal Branches . . 636 Pudic Nerve . . . 636 Great Sciatic Nerve . . 638 Internal Popliteal Nerve . 639 Posterior Tibial Nerve . 640 Internal Plantar Nerve . 641 External Plantar Nerve . 641 External Popliteal Nerve . 642 Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve 644 Anterior Tibial Nerve . 644 Synopsis of the Cutaneous Dis- TBIBUTION OF THE CeKEBKO- Spinal Nerves . . . 646 Synopsis of the Muscular Dis- tribution of theCerebro- Spinal Nerves. . . 647 Sympathetic Nerves . . . 650 Cervical Part of the Gangliated Cord . . . .651 Upper Cervical Ganglion . 651 Ascending Branch and Cranial Plexuses . . 653 Pharyngeal Nerves and Plexus . . . 654 Upper Cardiac Nerve . 654 PA GE Branches to Blood-vessels 655 Middle Cervical Ganglion . 656 Lower Cervical Ganglion . 656 Thoracic Part of the Gang- liated Cord. . . . 657 Lumbar Part of the Gangliated Cord .... 660 Sacral Part of the Gangliated Cord . . . . . 660 The Great Plexuses of the Sympathetic . . .661 Cardiac Plexus . . . 661 Solar or Epigastric Plexus . 662 Hypogastric Plexus . . 664 Pelvic Plexus . . . 665 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPO- GRAPHICAL ANATOMY. Superficial Anatomy OF THE Head and Neck 667 The Head and Face . 667 The Neck 671 Superficial Anatomy OF THE Trunk 673 The Chest. 673 The Abdomen 6 77 The Back . 681 Superficial Anatomy OF THE Upper Limb. 684 The Shoulder 684 The Arm . 685 The Elbow . 686 The Forearm . 687 The Wrist and Hand 688 Superficial Anatomy OF THE Lower Limb . 690 The Hip 690 The Thigh 691 The Knee 692 The Leg . . 694 The Ankle and Foot t>95 Anatomy of the Groin : Hernia . . 696 Inguinal Hernia 696 Femoral Hernia . 702 The Perineum of the Male . 704 INDEX 709ERRATA. Page 67, line 18, from bottom, for “plates,” read “plate.” Page 105, line 17, from bottom, for “inferior curved line,” read, “middle curved line.” Page 330, line 17, from top, for “ internal circumflex,” read “circumflex iliac.”VOL. I. ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY INTRODUCTION. Object of Anatomy.—The object of Anatomy, in its most extended sense, is to ascertain and make known the Structure of Organised Bodies. But the science is divided into departments according to its subjects; such as, Human Anatomy, in which, as in the present work, the struc- ture of man forms the principal subject; Comparative Anatomy, com- prehending, as a whole or in various subdivisions, the study of the structure of different animals ; and Yegetable Anatomy, comprehending the investigation of the structure of plants. Organs and Textures.—On examining the structure of an or- ganised body, we find that it is made up of members or organs, by means of which its functions are executed, such as the root, stem and leaves of a plant, and the heart, brain, stomach and limbs of an animal; and farther, that these organs are themselves made up of certain constituent materials named tissues or textures, such as the cellular, woody, and vascular tissues of the vegetable, or the osseous, muscular, connective, vascular, nervous, and other tissues, which form the animal organs. Most of the tissues occur in more than one organ, and some of them indeed, as the connective and vascular, in nearly all, so that a multitude of organs, and these greatly diversified, are constructed out of a small number of constituent tissues ; and parts of the body, differing widely in form, construction, and uses, may agree in the nature of their com- ponent materials. Again, as the same tissue possesses the same essential characters in whatever organ or region it is found, it is obvious that the structure and properties of each tissue may be made the subject of investigation apart from the organs into whose formation it enters. General and Descriptive Anatomy.—The foregoing considera- tions have led to the subdivision of anatomy into two branches, the one of which, under the name of “ General ” or “ Textural ” Anatomy, or “ Histology,” treats of the minute structure of the component tissues of the body ; the other, named “ Special ” or “ Descriptive ” Anatomy, treats of its several organs, members, and regions, describing the outward form and internal structure of the parts, their relative situation and mutual connection, and the successive conditions which they present in the progress of their formation or development. B2 INTRODUCTION. Descriptive Anatomy may be treated of in two methods ; viz., the Systematic and the Topographical. In the first or Systematic Anatomy, the several organs and parts of the body are considered in a systematic order, according to their structure, their connection with each other, and their relation to the purposes of life ; while in the second, or Topographical Anatomy, the parts are described in the order of their position or association in any region of the body. The first method is best adapted for the elementary and complete study of the structure of organs, the second is more immediately useful in the study of particular regions in their relation to medicine and surgery. The object of the present work being mainly to serve as a guide for systematic study, the topographical details will for the most part be included under and combined with the general description of organs, and only some of the more important regions will receive separate notice. The description of any organ embraces the consideration of its form, size, position, connection and texture ; the whole of these constituting the anatomy of the organ. The adult or fully formed condition of the body is commonly assumed as the subject of this description ; but it is obvious that a consideration of the structure of the body and its organs in different stages of life is required to render the knowledge of their anatomy complete. To the description of the origin and formation of organs in the embryo, a special chapter will be devoted in this work, under the name of Embryological Anatomy or Foetal Development, while the more advanced changes of growth will be described along with the Systematic Anatomy. The study of anatomy may be viewed in two different aspects ; viz., the Physiological and the Morphological. In the former, anatomy supplies the materials relating to structure from which an explanation is sought of the uses or functions of organs by the physiologist; and for this purpose the study of Textural Anatomy is of particular service. In its Morphological aspect, Descriptive Anatomy investigates and combines the facts relating to the structure and relations of organs, from which may be deduced general principles as to the construction of the human body or that of animals. In the determination of these general principles, or laws of Morphology, it is necessary to combine the know- ledge of the anatomy of animals with that of man, and both of these with the history of development. PLAN OP ORGANIZATION. Vertebrate Type.—The general plan of construction of the human body agrees closely w'ith that which prevails in a certain number of animals, viz., mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibia, and fishes, and is known as the vertebrate type of organisation. The main feature of that type, and that from which its name is derived, belongs to the internal skeleton, and consists in the existence of a number of bones (or cartila- ginous substitutes) termed vertebrae, which extend in a longitudinal series through the whole trunk of the body, and which by their more solid part, termed centrum or body, form a pillar or axis, round which the rest of the parts are arranged with a certain similarity of structure. At one extremity of this pillar is situated the head, presenting in almostPLAN OF ORGANISATION. 3 all the animals formed upon this type the character of a greater develop- ment of its constituent parts: and at the other the tail in which an opposite character or that of diminution prevails : while on the sides of the main part or trunk, there project, in relation with some of the vertebral elements, two pairs of symmetrical limbs, in two situations which are determinate and similar in different animals. The head and trunk contain the organs or viscera most important to life, such as the alimentary canal and the great central organs of the sanguiferous and nervous systems, while the limbs, from which such principal organs are absent, are very variable and differ widely in the degree of their development among the various animals formed upon the vertebrate type. The whole body may thus be regarded as being- formed of an axial portion consisting of the head and trunk, and of appendicular portions comprising the limbs. In man and the higher animals the trunk presents a division into the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The vertebrate form of skeleton is invariably accompanied by a determinate and conformable disposition of the other most important organs of the body, viz .-.—firstly, the existence on the dorsal aspect of the vertebral axis of an elongated cavity or canal which contains the brain and spinal cord, or central organs of the nervous system ; and secondly, the existence on the ventral aspect of the vertebral axis of a larger cavity, the visceral cavity, in which are contained the principal viscera connected with nutrition, such as the alimentary canal, the heart and lungs, the great blood-vessels, and the urinary and genital organs. The general disposition of the parts of the body and of the more important viscera in their relation to the vertebral axis are shown in the accompanying figures of the external form and longitudinal and transverse sections of the human embryo at an early period of its existence, when its structure resembles more closely that of the lower animals. Fig. 1.—Lateral view op THE HUMAN EMBRYO ABOUT SEVEN WEEKS OLD ; THE VERTEBRAL AXIS PLACED HORIZONTALLY. MAGNIFIED ABOUT 7 DIAMETERS. (A.T.) s, s, indications of the ver- tebral divisions along the line of the back ; r,u, upper limb; t, f, lower limb ; u, umbilical opening. In the cranial part the divisions of the brain are indicated, together with the eye, and ail, the auditory vesicle ; near 6, the visceral arches of the head with the rudiments of the upper and lower jaws. These arches and the clefts between are represented in a state belonging to a somewhat earlier stage than the rest of the body. Fig. 1. Segmented Character.—The vertebrate type of organisation presents, there- fore, in the repetition of similar structural elements in a longitudinal series, a segmented character, especially in the axial portion of the body, and this b 2INTRODUCTION. 4 segmentation affects more or less, not merely the skeletal parts of its structure, hut also, to some extent, its other component organs. Fig. 2. throu; Fig. 2.—Semidiagrammatic VIEW OF A LONGITUDINAL SECTION OF THE EMBRYO REPRESENTED IN FIGURE 1 ; SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL SYSTEMS AND ORGANS TO EACH OTHER IN THE HORIZONTAL POSITION OF THE VERTE- BRAL AXIS. (A. T.) 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, primary divisions of the brain in the cranial part of the neural canal ; n, n, spinal cord in the vertebral part of the canal; s, spinous process of one of the vertebra (4th ;h the axis of the vertebral centra ; ch\ the a, dorsal aorta ; p, pharyngeal cavity i dorsal) ; eh, chorda dorsalis runninL same extending into the base of the cranium ■i, i, alimentary canal ; h, ventricular part of the heart, from which the arterial bulb is seen joining the aorta by arches ; h, visceral arches ; l, liver ; vj, Wolffian body; v, urinary vesicle or allantois, joining the intestine in the cloaca, cl; u, u', umbilicus. Fig. 3. Fig. 4. Fig. 3.—Transverse section (diagrammatic) of the trunk of the embryo THROUGH THE UPPER LIMBS. (A. T.) 7ii, spinal cord; n, neural or dorsal arch, including bone, muscle, skin, roots of the nerves, &c. ; ch, chorda dorsalis, surrounded by the vertebral body or centrum ; v, ventral or visceral arch, or wall of the body ; p, p, pleuro-peritoneal cavity ; i, alimentary canal; /(, heart ; 7, l, the rudimentary limbs. Fig. 4.—First dorsau vertebra with the first rib and upper part of the STERNUM, SEEN FROM ABOVE. ^ O, centrum ; IVj neural cavity j V, cavity of the chest, visceral cavity. It is true that a segmented plan of construction is not restricted to vertebrate animals, but exists in several other classes of the animal kingdom, as is most conspicuously seen in the Arthropoda, such as insects and Crustacea. In these animals, however, although there is a marked repetition of parts of like struc- ture in a longitudinal series, there are many important deviations from the vertebrate type of organisation ; and it is unnecessary here to trace the corre- spondence between their structure and that of man.VERTEBRATE TYPE. In the human body, as in that of all vertebrate animals, the character of segmentation is most obvious in the osseous and nervous systems, so that the form and structure of the other systems seem to be in some measure moulded upon those of the skeleton and cerebro-spinal axis. The trunk of the body more especially is formed of a series of parts or segments of similar structure sufficiently distinct in some of the systems, but more or less blended together in others. Such ideal segments of the body may be named vertebral segments, or somatomes (Goodsir). In the limbs, although in the earliest stages of their formation some segmental connection may be traced between them and the trunk, the repetition of vertebral elements is, in their more advanced state of growth, greatly obscured by the modifications of form and structure they have undergone. Homology.—A certain agreement in structure, situation and connection of parts or organs constitutes what is called homology, and this term is generally employed to indicate the morphological identity of representative parts in different animals, which may be considered to have its cause in community of origin (homogeny, Lankester), while the anatomical correspondence of parts which are repeated in the same animal may be more exactly distinguished as serial homology (Jiomodynamy, Gegenbaur). Thus the arm-bone or humerus of a man is homologous (homogenetic) with the upper bone of the fore limb of a quadruped, or of the wing of a bird, while it is at the same time serially homo- logous (homodynamic) with the thigh-bone of man himself, or any other vertebrate animal. It has farther been found convenient to express by the word analogy that kind of resemblance among the organs of animals which depends upon similarity of function, and although it may be accompanied by considerable agreement in structure, yet is not rendered complete by anatomical relation and connection: for example, the gills of a fish, of a crab, and of a mussel, serving the same function, are analogous organs, but in no sense homologous, as all morpholo- gical correspondence, or genetic relation is wanting between them. Thus also, the upper limb of a man, the fore limb of a quadruped, the wing of a bird, and the pectoral fin of a fish are homologous but not analogous structures, the wing of a bat and the wing of a bird are both homologous and analogous, whilst the last is analogous to but not homologous with the wing of an insect. Symmetry of Form—A remarkable regularity of form pervades the organi- sation of certain parts of the body, especially the whole of the limbs, the head and neck, and the framework, at least, and external walls of the trunk of the body. Thus, if we conceive the body to be divided equally by a plane which passes from its dorsal to its ventral aspect (mesial plane), the two halves, in so far as regards the parts previously mentioned, correspond almost exactly with each other, excepting by then- lateral transposition,—and the human body thus presents in a marked manner the character of lateral symmetry. There is, however, a departure from this symmetrical form in the developed condition of certain of the internal organs, such as the alimentary canal from the stomach downwards, the heart and first part of the great bloodvessels, the liver, spleen, and some other viscera, which are therefore styled the asymmetrical parts or viscera. Descriptive Terms.—In the description of parts so numerous, so various in form, and so complex in them connections as those composing the human body, there is difficulty in finding terms which shall indicate with sufficient precision their actual position and their relation to the rest of the organism. This diffi- culty is farther increased by the exceptional erect attitude in which the trunk of the human body is placed as compared with the horizontal position in animals. Hence, a number of terms have long been in use in human anatomy which are understood in a technical or restricted sense. For example, the mesial plane, already referred to, being that by which the body might be divided into right and left lateral halves, and the middle or median line being that in which the mesial plane meets the surface of the body, the words internal and external are used to denote relative nearness to and distance from this plane on either side, and might therefore be replaced by mesial and lateral. The terms sagittal and frontal are sometimes used in indication of direction within the body: sagittal denoting a dorso-ventral direction in or parallel to the mesial plane, frontal a6 INTRODUCTION. transverse direction perpendicular to that plane. The words anterior and posterior, superior and inferior, and several others indicating position, are employed in human anatomy strictly with reference to the erect posture of the body. But now that the more extended study of comparative anatomy and embryonic development is largely applied to the elucidation of the human structure, it is very desirable that descriptive terms should be sought which may without ambiguity indicate position and relation in the organism at once in man and animals. Such terms as dorsal and ventral, neural and visceral, cephalic and caudal, central and peripheral, proximal and distal, axial and appendicular, preaxial and postaxial, are of this kind, and ought, whenever this may be done consistently with sufficient clearness of description, to take the place of those which are only applicable to the peculiar attitude of the human body, so as to bring the language of human and comparative anatomy as much as possible into conformity. In many instances, also, precision may be obtained by reference to certain fixed relations of parts, such as the vcrtehral and sternal aspects, the radial and ulnar, and the filial and fibular borders, the flexor and extensor surfaces of the limbs, and similarly in other parts of the body. Arrangement.—The following subdivision of the subject and order of treatment will be adopted in this work, viz.:— In the First Volume. 1. Osteology, the Bones. 2. Arthrology, the Articulations. 3. Myology, the Voluntary Muscles, with which will be combined the Fascia; and Aponeuroses. 4. Angeiology, the Distribution of the Blood-vessels and Lym- phatics. 5. Neurology, the Distribution of the Nerves. 6. Superficial Anatomy and Topographical Anatomy of some regions. In the Second Volume. 7. Histology or General Anatomy. 8. Splanchnology, the Viscera, including— a. The Brain and Spinal Cord. 1). The Organs of the Senses. c. The Heart. cl. The Lungs and Organs of Respiration. e. The Organs of Digestion with the Accessory Glands. f. The Urinary Organs. rj. The Organs of Reproduction. 9. Embryology or Development.OSTEOLOGY. -—*—• THE SKELETON. The Skeleton or solid framework of the body is mainly formed of the bones, but is completed in some parts by the addition of cartilages. The bones are bound together by means of ligaments, and are so disposed as to support the softer parts, protect delicate organs, and give attachment to the muscles by which the different movements are executed. In the lower animals the term skeleton has a wider signification than in man, comprehending two sets of parts, viz., 1st, those of the endo- skeleton, or the deeper osseous and cartilaginous framework which corresponds to the human skeleton ; and 2nd, those of the exoskeleton, or dermal skeleton, comprising the integument and various hardened structures connected with it. All vertebrate animals possess an endo- skeleton; but in some of them the exoskeleton attains greater pro- portions than in others, and is combined by means of hardened parts more fully with portions of the endoskeleton. In most invertebrate animals the dermal or exoskeleton alone exists. In man, as in the higher vertebrates, the greater part of the endo- skeleton is formed of bone, a calcified animal tissue, which, when freed by putrefactive maceration from its fat and various soft adherent parts, and subsequently dried, is capable of remaining unchanged for a very long period of time. It is customary and convenient thus to study the bones chiefly in the macerated and dried state, that is, deprived of their accessory soft parts. The accessory soft parts connected with the fresh bones consist chiefly of the external fibrous and vascular covering termed periosteum, and of the medulla, marrow or fat, which fills their larger internal cavities. The bones are permeated by blood-vessels, and they are provided also with absorbent vessels and with nerves in small quantity. The ends of the bones, when jointed moveably with others, are covered by a thin layer of dense permanent cartilage, called articular cartilage ; and the adjacent bones are united together by fibrous ligaments which may be considered as continuous with the periosteum covering the rest of the bones. In some instances distinct bones are directly united by means of ligament or cartilage without any joint-cavity intervening. Thus the osseous system as a whole may be considered to be enveloped by a fibrous covering. The bones are originally formed by a process termed ossification, fromOSTEOLOGY. 8 soft substance. This process commences in the greater number of bones in cartilage ; in some it begins in fibrous tissue or membrane; and in all instances the further growth of the bone substance takes place largely in the latter way. The deposit of bone begins generally at one spot, which is therefore called the primary centre of ossifica- tion ; but there may be several of these from the first. The main part of the bone thus formed from the primary centre is sometimes named the diaphysis. In most bones, after considerable advance in growth by extension from the primary centre, ossification occurs at comparatively later periods in one or more separate points, forming- secondary or tertiary centres; and the portions of bones so formed, which remain united to the main part for a time by intervening cartilage, are termed epiphyses. In many instances entire consolidation of the bone by the osseous union of the epiphyses does not take place till the full size has been attained, and this may be as late as the twenty-third or even the twenty-fifth year of life. In their outward form the bones present much diversity, but have been reduced by anatomists to the following classes:—1. Long or cylindrical, such as the chief bones of the limbs. These consist of a body or shaft, cylindrical or prismatic in shape, and two extremities which are usually thicker than the shaft, and have smooth cartilaginous surfaces for articulation with neighbouring bones. The shaft is generally hollow and filled with marrow, by which sufficient size and strength are attained without undue increase of weight. 2. Tabular or flat bones, like the scapula, ilium, and the bones forming the roof and sides of the skull. 3. Short bones, which are more or less cubical or oblong, as in the carpus and tarsus. 4. Irregular or mixed bones, mostly situated symmetrically across the mesial plane of the body, and often of a complex figure, such as the vertebra:. In these differently shaped bones the osseous substance occurs in two forms, viz., the compact and the spongy. There is, however, no essential difference in structure or properties between these beyond that of thickness or thinness of the component material. The sru-faces of bones present various eminences, depressions, and other marks, to designate which the following terms are in common use. Any marked bony prominence is called a process or apophysis ; a slender, sharp, or pointed eminence is named a spine, or sjnnovs process ; a blunt one a tubercle ; a broad and rough one a tuberosity. The terms crest, line, and ridge are usually applied to a pro- minent border, or to an elevation running some way along the surface of a bone. A head (caput, capitulum, or capitellum) is a rounded process usually supported on a narrower part named the necli (cervix). The term condyle, somewhat vari- ously applied by anatomists, is most frequently employed to denote an eminence bearing a rounded articular surface. The cavities and depressions of bones are very variously named. An aperture or perforation, when short, is a foramen ; when continued some way as a passage it is a canal or meatus. A narrow slit is a fissure, an open excavation or hollow in one bone or in several together is a fossa. This term is also sometimes applied to the socket of a joint, as in the glenoid or shallower, and the cotyloid or deeper form of joint cavity. Sinus and antrum are names applied to considerable cavities in the interior of certain bones. Besides these, various other terms are employed which do not require explanation, such as notch (incisura), groove, furrow (sulcus), &c. The number of bones in the skeleton varies at different periods of life, some which are originally distinct becoming united together as the9 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. process of ossification advances. The following is a statement of the number usually reckoned as distinct in middle life :— The vertebral column . Single bones. . 26 Pairs. Total. 26 The skull . . 6 8 22 The hyoid bone . . 1 . . 1 The ribs and sternum . . 1 12 25 The upper limbs . 32 U The lower limbs. 31 62 34 83 200 Besides the bones included in the above enumeration, there exist like- wise the three pairs of auditory ossicles, and various bones formed in tendons and called sesamoid, the most constant of which are, besides the patella and pisiform bone, reckoned in the table above as limb bones, a pah’ in each thumb and great toe. I.—THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is composed of a series of bones called vertebra, which are united together, for the most part, by joints and elastic substance in such a manner that, although the amount of motion allowed between each pair is slight, the aggregate is sufficient to give the column very considerable flexibility. The vertebrae are originally thirty-three in number. Of these, the twenty-four upper remain separate in the adult, retaining their mobility, and are hence called moveable vertebrae. They are succeeded by five others, which rapidly diminish in size from above downwards, and which are united into one mass called the sacrum ; beyond the sacrum are four dwindled terminal members of the series, which as age advances, likewise become more or less united, and form the coccyx. These sacral and coccygeal vertebrae are known as the fixed or united vertebrae. General characters of the Vertebrae.—The general characters are best seen in the vertebrae placed near the middle of the column, of which the sixth dorsal vertebra, shown in Fig. 8, may serve as an example. Each has more or less the form of a ring, and presents for consideration a body, arch, processes, and the enclosed spinal foramen. The body or centrum is a short cylinder or disc, which forms the anterior part of the vertebra. Its superior and inferior surfaces arc flattened and connected to the next vertebrae by strong and elastic intervertebral discs. On the front and sides it is convex horizontally, but slightly concave from above downwards ; its posterior surface forms part of the ring, and is slightly concave from side to side. These vertical surfaces are pierced by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood-vessels, and near the middle of the posterior surface are one or two much larger than the others. The arch (neural) consists of two symmetrical portions which spring, one on each side, from the posterior surface of the body, and meet in the middle line behind. The anterior part of each half, thick and narrow, is called the pedicle; the posterior part is broad and flat, and is called the lamina. The concavities on the upper and lower borders of theVERTEBRAL COLUMN. 10 pedicles are named notches, and constitute by the apposition of those of contiguous vertebrae, the intervertebral foramina, a series of rounded apertures, which communicate with the vertebral canal, and transmit the spinal nerves and blood vessels. The spinous process (neural spine) projects backwards from the arch in the middle line. The transverse processes, placed one on each side, project outwards from the arch at the junction of the pedicle with the lamina. The articular processes (zygapophyses), two superior and two inferior, project upwards and downwards opposite the attachment of the transverse processes ; their articular surfaces, coated with cartilage, in the superior pair look backwards, and in the inferior forwards, so that the former face the latter in adjoining vertebrae. The foramen is bounded anteriorly by the body, posteriorly and later- ally by the arch. The series of rings thus formed, united by ligaments, constitutes the spinal or neural canal, which lodges the spinal cord. Texture.—The bodies of the vertebrae are almost entirely composed of spongy substance, the principal lamellae being vertical; on the surface is a thin layer of compact tissue. Venous canals, commencing at the larger foramina behind, traverse the cancellated structure. The arch and processes contain a much smaller proportion of spongy substance, being covered with compact tissue of considerable density in some places. GROUPS OP VERTEBRiE. The vertebrae are divided into five groups, named from the regions which they occupy, cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. Cervical Vertebrae.—These are seven in number ; they are the smallest of the moveable vertebrae, and are specially characterized by the presence of foramina in the transverse processes. The first and second are so peculiar in form, as to require a separate description. The following are the common characters of a cervical vertebra. Fig. 5.—Third cervical vertebra. (A. T.) i A, from above and slightly from behind ; B, from the side. 1, body; 3, lamina; 4, spinal foramen; 5, spinous process ; 6, posterior, 6*, anterior tubercle of transverse process ; a, foramen in the transverse process transmitting the vertebral artery ; behind a, the pedicle and intervertebral notch ; 7, superior, 7', inferior articular process. The body is small and much broader from side to side than from before backwards ; in depth nearly the same in front and behind. Its upper surface is transversely concave from the upward projection of its lateral margins, and is sloped down anteriorly. The under surface on the contrary is rounded off at the sides, while its anterior margin forms a marked projection downwards. The pedicles spring from the body midway between the upper and lower borders, and are directed outwards and backwards : the laminae are long and flat. The superior and inferior notches are nearly equal in depth. The spinous process is short, only slightly depressed, and bifid.n CERVICAL VERTEBRiE. The transverse processes are short and present at their extremities two tubercles, anterior and posterior. Each process is deeply grooved superiorly for a spinal nerve, and at its base is perforated vertically by a round foramen (vertebrarterial), through which in the upper six the vertebral artery and vein pass. It is united with the rest of the vertebra by two parts ; by the posterior, at the place of junction of the pedicle and lamina, like a dorsal transverse process ; by the anterior, to the body of the vertebra, in the same position as the heads of the ribs. The articular processes are placed at the extremities of a short, stout, vertical column of bone ; their flat articular surfaces are oblique, the superior looking backwards and upwards, the inferior forwards and downwards. The foremen is triangular with rounded angles, and larger than in the dorsal or lumbar vertebrae. The First Cervical Vertebra, or Atlas, differs remarkably from the others in the absence of a body and spinous process, having the form merely of a large ring with articular and transverse processes. Fig. 6.—Atlas, from above. (A. T.) J 1, tubercle on anterior arch ; 4, the poste- rior part of the ring, with 5, an indication of a spinous tubercle ; 4', the anterior part of the foramen, containing the odontoid process, and indicating in front of 4' the smooth sur- face on which the process moves in rotation ; 6, transverse process with a slight indication of division into two tubercles ; 7, condylar articular process ; + inside it indicates the rounded tubercle to which the transverse liga- ment is attached ; a, foramen in the trans- verse process ; b, groove on the posterior arch for the vertebral artery. The interior of the ring is wider posteriorly than anteriorly. Its posterior part corresponds to the foramina of the other vertebra ; its narrower anterior part is occupied by the odontoid process of the axis, and in the recent state is separated from the posterior by the transverse ligament. In front of the ring is the anterior arch, on the anterior aspect of which is a small tubercle, and on the posterior a smooth surface for articulation with the odontoid process. At the sides of the ring are the lateral masses, which are thick and strong, bearing the articular processes superiorly and interiorly, and extending outwards into the transverse processes. The articular processes differ from those of other vertebra in being situated in front of the places of exit of the nerves. The superior are oval, converging in front, with articular sur- faces concave from before backwards, and looking upwards and inwards; they are frequently divided by a transverse groove into two. At the inner margin of each is a smooth rounded tubercle, to which the trans- verse ligament is attached. The inferior articular processes are smaller than the superior, flat, nearly circular, looking downwards and slightly inwards. The posterior arch presents in the middle line a rough elevation, the rudiment of a spinous process ; at its junction with the lateral masses, it is hollowed out superiorly, so as to form a smooth transverse groove, in which lie the vertebral artery and first spinal (suboccipital) nerve ; the Fig. 6. 1 6Fig. 7. VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 12 or neck. It presents in front a smooth groove is, sometimes converted into a foramen by a small arch of bone, and corresponds to the notches of the other vertebrae. The transverse processes are larger and project further outwards than those of the subjacent vertebrae. They are flattened from above down- wards, and have a large foramen. Their extremities are not bifid, but broad and rough. The Second Vertebra or Axis (vert, dentata) forms a pivot on which the first vertebra rotates carrying the head. The body is characterized by the presence of a large blunt tooth- like process called odontoid (proc. dentatus). This consists of an enlarged part termed the head, and a lower part surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind a smooth groove to receive the transverse ligament. The lower surface Fig. 7.—The axis. (A. T.) \ A, seen from above and behind ; B, seen from the right side. 1, body ; 4, spinal foramen ; 5, spinous process ; 6, transverse process ; 7, superior articular surface ; 7', inferior articular process ; 1* in A, is placed at the side of the odontoid process; in B, in front of it, marking the smooth surface of articu- lation with the anterior arch of the atlas. of the body resembles that of the suc- ceeding vertebras. Its anterior surface presents a low median vertical ridge, with a depression on each side. The superior articular surfaces placed like those of the atlas in front of the notch, lie close to the base of the odontoid process, partly on the body and partly on the pedicles of the vertebra. These surfaces look upwards and slightly outwards. The inferior articular processes are similar in form and position to those of the succeeding vertebrae. The spinous process is very large, rough, deeply bifid, and grooved on its inferior surface. The lamincc are very thick and strong. The transverse processes are short and the anterior tubercle almost obsolete. The foramen for the vertebral artery is inclined obliquely upwards and outwards. The Seventh Cervical Vertebra (vert, prominens) has a long tuberculated spine, which projects under the skin (hence its name), and the transverse processes are massive, only slightly grooved, with a small foramen, and terminate in a single broad tubercle. Dorsal or Thoracic Vertebrae.—These are twelve in number, and support the ribs. The body as seen from above is somewhat heart-shaped ; its antero- posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal; its depth greater behind than before. It is specially characterized by the presence', at the place where if joins the arch, of depressed articular surfaces for the heads of ribs. In the greater number of instances, there are two costal surfaces on eaci side,—one on the upper, the other on the lower border,—so placed tha13 DORSAL VERTEBRAE. each completes, with that of the adjacent vertebra, a cavity for the head of one rib. Fig. 8.—Sixth dorsal vertebra. (A. T.) £ A, viewed from above ; B, viewed from the right side. 1, body ; 2, pedicle ; 3, lamina ; 4, spinal foramen ; 5, spinous process ; 6, transverse process; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular processes ; c, c', superior and inferior facets on the body for the articulation of the head of the rib ; d, facet on the transverse process for the articulation of the tubercle of the rib. The lamince, broad and flat, are imbri- cated or sloped one pair over another like tiles on a roof. The superior notches are very shallow, the inferior compara- tively deep. The spinous process, described as bayonet-shaped, is three-sided, and termi- nates in a slight tubercle. It is longest and has the greatest downward inclina- tion in those toward the middle of the series. The transverse ywocesses are strong, directed outwards and backwards, and terminate in a rough knob which presents anteriorly a smooth surface for articulation with the tubercle of a rib. The articular processes have their cartilaginous surfaces nearly vertical. Those of the superior processes look backwards, slightly upwards and outwards, those of the inferior look forwards, slightly downwards and inwards. The foremen is nearly circular, and is smaller than in the cervical or the lumbar region. The first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth doTsal vertebrae present certain characters by which they may be individually distinguished. The First Dorsal Vertebra in its general conformation approaches very closely the seventh cervical. The body is elongated transversely and concave on the upper surface ; the superior intervertebral notches are of considerable depth ; the upper articular surfaces oblique, and the spinous process long and nearly horizontal. On each side of the body is a complete circular facet close to the upper border for the first rib, and a demi-facet below for the second. The Tenth Dorsal Vertebra touches only one rib on each side, and has a single nearly complete articular surface, mainly on the pedicle. There is the usual facet on the transverse process. The Eleventh Dorsal Vertebra has a complete articular surface on each side for the head of the rib, but no facet on the transverse process. The Twelfth Dorsal Vertebra has also only a single facet on each side; the inferior articular processes have their surfaces turned out- wards, resembling those of a lumbar vertebra; the transverse processes are short and present three elevations, the external, superior, and inferior tubercles, which correspond to the transverse, mammillary, and accessoiy processes of the lumbar vertebrae (v. fig. 10, 6, e,f). Indications of these tubercles are also seen upon the tenth and eleventh vertebrae.VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 14 Lumbar Vertebrae.—These are five in number, the largest of the moveable vertebra, and are distinguished by the absence of costal articular surfaces. Fig. 9. Fig. 9.—Third lumbar vertebra. (A.T.) £ A, from above ; B, from the right side ; 1, body; 2, pedicle and intervertebral notch ; 3, lamina ; 4, spinal foramen ; 5, spinous process ; 6, transverse process ; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular pro- cesses ; e, mammillary tubercle, appa- rently on the superior articular process ; /, accessory tubercle, between the articular and transverse processes. The Jjodij has a greater diameter transversely than from before backwards, and viewed from above or below its surface presents a reniform outline; the depth is about equal in front and behind. The laminm are shorter, deeper, and thicker than those of the dorsal vertebrae. The superior notches are shallow, the inferior deep. The spinous process proiects horizontally backwards. It has con- siderable breadth front above Fig. 10. downwards, and is thickened and rough along its posterior edge. Fig. 10. — Lower two dorsal and UPPER TWO LUMBAR VERTEBRAE. (A. T.) i Viewed from behind, chiefly to show the relations of the transverse processes and adjacent tubercles. 1, body of the eleventh dorsal vertebra; 5, spinous process of the second lumbar; 6, exter- nal or costal tubercle of the transverse process ; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular processes ; e, superior or mam- millary, and /, inferior or accessory tubercle; c, c, eleventh and twelfth ribs. The trans verse processes, slender and somewhat spatula-shaped, project directly outwards ; they are shortest in the first, longest in the third vertebra. Their ex- tremities lie in series with the external tubercles of the lower dorsal transverse processes, and with the ribs. Behind each at its base is a small process pointing downwards, which corresponds to the inferiorSACRAL VERTEBR2E. 15 tubercle of the dorsal transverse process, and is called the accessory ■process (anapophysis). The articular processes are thick and strong. Their articular surfaces are vertical; the superior, concave, look backwards and inwards, the inferior, convex, look forwards and outwards. The superior pair are further apart than the inferior, and embrace the inferior pair of the vertebra above them. From each superior articular process a tubercle projects backwards, which corresponds to the superior tubercle of the dorsal transverse process, and is called the mammillary process (rneta- pophysis). The foramen is large and triangular, or widely lozenge-shaped. The Fifth. Lumbar Vertebra is massive, the body is deeper in front than behind, the transverse processes are broad and conical, the lower articular processes are wider apart than the upper, and the laminae project into the spinal foramen on each side. Sacral Vertebrae.—These by their union in the adult form the os sacrum, but in youth they present the elements of five distinct vertebra;. The sacrum is placed below the last lumbar vertebra, and articulates laterally with the two hip-bones, thus completing together with the coccyx the wall of the pelvis above and behind. The uppermost vertebra is the largest, those which follow become rapidly smaller and the fifth is rudimentary. Hence the sacrum has the form of a triangle with its base directed upwards. It is concave and smooth in front, convex and uneven behind. The direction of its surfaces is very oblique, its ventral aspect looking considerably downwards, and forming above at the place where it joins the last lumbar vertebra, the projection termed promontory. The dorsal or posterior surface looks upwards as well as backwards. Fig. 11.—Sacrum of the male, viewed from BEFORE. 5 1, 1, four transverse ridges, indicating the place of original separation of the bodies of the five sacral vertebrae ; 2, anterior sacral foramina ; 3, 4, lateral surface ; 5, a notch which, with the coccyx, forms a passage for the fifth sacral nerve ; 6, oval surface of the upper part of the sacrum for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra; 7, superior articular process; 8, inferior oval surface for articulation with the coccyx ; +, inferior lateral angle. The ventral surface is concave from above downwards, and slightly so from side to side. It is traversed horizontally by four ridges, which indicate the places of union of the bodies of the five sacral vertebrae, and at the extremities of which are situated on each side four foramina called anterior sacral. These foramina lead externally into grooves, and diminish in size from above downwards. The dorsal surface is convex, very uneven, and somewhat narrower than the ventral. It presents along the median line three or four small eminences, the spinous processes, usually more or less connected, so as to form a ridge. Below the last spinous process is a triangular opening, the termination of the spinal canal, the lateral margins of which are formed by the imperfect laminae of the fourth and fifth sacral vertebra;, and are produced downwards into a pair of tubercles, the sacral cornua, which articulate with the cornua of the coccyx. On each side of the Fig. 11.VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 16 ridge of spines the surface formed by the united laminae is slightly grooved longitudinally, and beyond this are the four posterior sacral foramina, opposite to, but smaller than the anterior. Immediately in- ternal to each foramen is a slight eminence, which represents the articular and mammillary processes of the vertebrae above, whilst external to the foramen a more strongly marked elevation corresponds to the transverse process. The part of the sacrum external to the foramina constitutes the lateral mass, and is broad and thick superiorly, but narrowed inferiorly. The outer aspect of the upper part presents in front a large uneven surface, 1, Body of the first sacral vertebra; 4, 4, orifices of the sacral canal, and between these, the series of four united laminte and spinous processes ; 6, 6', line of tubercles corresponding to transverse processes; 7, 7', line of articular processes, with four adjacent posterior sacral foramina ; l, l, auricular surface ; in the coccyx, c, body of the last vertebra; t, transverse process ; 7, cornu or superior articular process. covered in the recent state with cartilage, which articulates with the ilium, and is called from its shape the auricular surface: behind this the bone is rough and marked with strong depressions for the attachment of ligaments. Lower down, the margin becomes nar- rowed and sinuous, terminating in the projection called the in- ferior lateral angle, below which the breadth of the bone is suddenly contracted so as to form a notch with the adjacent part of the coccyx. The base or upper surface of the first sacral vertebra bears considerable resemblance to the upper surface of the last lumbar. In the middle it presents the reniform surface of the body, behind which is the triangular aperture of the sacral canal, bounded by the depressed laminae. On each Fig. 12. Fig. 12.—Sacrum and coccyx op the MALE VIEWED FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) £ Fig. 13. Fig. 13.—Upper surface or base of the SACRUM OF A MALE. (A. T.) § 1, body; 4, foramen or sacral canal; 5, spinous process of the first sacral vertebra ; 6, part corresponding to a transverse process, in front of which is the ala ; 7, 7', superior and inferior articular processes; e, mammil- lary tubercle ; /, accessory tubercle, slightly seen. side of the aperture is an articular process, exactly resembling the supe- rior process of a lumbar vertebra. In front of this is a groove which forms with the last lumbar an intervertebral foramen. The external portion of the base presents posteriorly an eminence corresponding to the lumbar transverse process, and in front of that a large smooth curvedCOCCYGEAL YERTEBRJE. 17 surface, continuous with the iliac fossa of the pelvis, and known as the ala of the sacrum. The lower end or apex, formed by the small inferior surface of the body of the fifth sacral vertebra, is transversely oval, and articulates with the coccyx. The sacral canal is curved with the bone, and gradually narrows as it descends ; in transverse section it is three-sided above, but flattened and rather semilunar below. It terminates on the posterior surface of the bone between the sacral cornua where the laminae of the last sacral vertebra are imperfect. From this canal there pass outwards in the substance of the bone four pairs of intervertebral foramina, closed externally by the lateral masses, but opening on the surface by the anterior and posterior sacral foramina. Differences in the sexes.—The sacrum of the female is broader in proportion to its length than that of the male ; it is also flatter, and usually inclines backwards from the direction of the lumbar vertebrae to a greater extent than in the male. But the curvature varies considerably in different skeletons. Varieties.—The sacrum not unfrequently consists of six vertebrae, and some- times, though rarely, of only four. Occasionally the bodies of the first and second vertebrae are not united, though complete union has taken place in every other part, or the first vertebra may present on one side the usual sacral form, while on the other it has the form of a lumbar vertebra, and is not united to the next (see fig. 21,11, l'), a peculiarity connected with the oblique form of pelvis. Instances also occur, in which it presents, on both sides, characters intermediate between those of sacral and lumbar vertebrae. The lower end of the sacral canal may be open to a greater extent than usual; it has even been found open throughout. Coccygeal Vertebrae, Coccyx.—These are very rudimentary ver- tebrae, commonly four, sometimes five, seldom only three in number. The first of the series is considerably broader than the others. It pre- sents superiorly on the part corresponding to the body an oval concave surface which articulates with the lower end of the sacrum • two small processes, termed cornua, which project upwards from its posterior sur- Fig. 14.—Coccygeal vertebr.e, seen from before.—from a MALE SUBJECT OF MIDDLE AGE. (A. T.) -j The upper piece is separate from the second ; the three lower are united together in one piece, and separated only by grooves. 1, above the body of the first coccygeal vertebra ; 1', below the fourth piece ; 6, the transverse process ; 7, the cornua. face, connected to the sacral cornua ; and a short process, which projects from each side, and usually forms, with the inferior lateral angle of the sacrum, a notch for the fifth sacral nerve, but in some cases unites with that bone to enclose a fifth sacral foramen. The remaining three coccygeal vertebrae are much smaller than the first, and correspond solely to vertebral bodies. When separate, the second piece presents an upper and lower flattened surface. The third and fourth pieces are mere rounded nodules. In middle life, the first piece is usually separate, while the three lower pieces are united into one, the original separation being indicated by transverse grooves. In advanced life, the coccygeal vertebrae, having been previously joined into one bone, may become also united to the sacrum. This union occurs at an earlier age and more frequently in the male than in the female* VOL. i. c °L 6 Fig. 14. 7 l r18 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 15. but it is subject to much variation. The first piece often joins the sacrum before the union of the rest of the bone. Fig. 15.—Vertebral column op an adult male, SEEN PROM BEHIND. (A. T. ) \ C 1, first cervical vertebra ; D 1, first dorsal ver- tebra ; L 1, first lumbar vertebra ; S 1, first sacral vertebra ; CO 1, first coccygeal vertebra. The tran- sition in the form of the transverse processes and tubercles in the lower dorsal and first lumbar vertebra is well marked in this specimen. The vertebral column as a whole.— The vertebral column may be regarded as a central column upon which the other parts of the skeleton are arranged. Superiorly it supports the skull, laterally the ribs, through which also it receives the weight of the upper limits, and near its lower extremity it rests upon the hip bones, by which it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limbs. It is a pillar of support to the rest of the skeleton, and protects the spinal cord by enclosing it in a bony canal. Its average length is about 28 inches. When seen in profile the column presents four curves, directed alternately forwards and backwards,—forwards in the cervical and lumbar regions, backwards in the dorsal and sacral. The upper curves pass im- perceptibly into one another, but at the junction of the last lumbar vertebra with the sacrum a considerable angle is formed, known as the sacro-vertebral angle, caus- ing the promontory to overhang the cavity of the pelvis. The dorsal and sacral curves are primary curves, affecting those parts of the column which enter into the formation of the bony-walled cavities, the thorax and pelvis ; they make then- appearance at an early period of foetal life, and are due to the conformation of the vertebral bodies: the cervical and lumbar curves are secondary or compensatory curves, necessary to the upright posture, only developed after birth, and dependent mainly on the shape of the intervertebral discs; in these regions also the principal movements of the spine take place. The curves obviously confer upon the column greater elasticity and security from injury than it would have were it perfectly straight. In the upper dorsal region there is also very frequently a slight degree of lateral curva-19 THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN AS A WHOLE. ture, the convexity of which, in most cases, is directed towards the right side, and is probably connected with the greater use made of the right than of the left arm. Viewed in front, the bodies of the ver- tebrae are seen to become broader from the axis to the first dorsal, then slightly narrower to the fourth dorsal, and from that vertebra they gradually widen to the base of the sacrum. The width between the extremities of the trans- verse processes is considerable in the atlas; small in the axis, it becomes greater as far as the first dorsal vertebra, thence it is again gradually contracted as far as the last dorsal, and becomes suddenly much greater in the lumbar region. In a lateral view the antero-posterior diameter of the bodies increases in des- cending through the dorsal and lumbar legions. Viewed from behind the spines occupy the middle line. On the sides are the vertebral grooves, corresponding to the laminae, and bounded externally in the cervical and dorsal regions by the transverse processes, and in the lumbar by the mammillary processes. Along each groove is a series of spaces between the laminae, which, in the natural condition, are filled up by the yellow ligaments. The extent of these intervals is very trifling in the neck and in the greater part of the back; it increases in the lower third of the dorsal, and still more in the lumbar region. The interval between the occipital bone and the arch of the atlas is considerable, and so is that between the last lumbar vertebra and the sacrum. The only part of the vertebral column that appears on the surface of the body is the row of spinous processes, and these Fig. 16.—The vertebral column viewed from the left side. (A. T.) £ The letters and numbers indicate the several vertebr®. The antero-posterior curvatures of the column are shown, together with the shape and size of the bodies and intervertebral spaces, the form and transitions of the transverse and spinous processes, and the differences in the costal articulating surfaces. Fig. 16. SI ,1VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 20 are subcutaneous from the seventh cervical to the third sacral. The upper cervical spines are deeply placed and can be felt with difficulty in the median interval between the muscular masses of the back of the neck; the sixth is sometimes long and in such cases may project. The seventh cervical and the following one or two dorsal spines are promi- nent, the others lie at the bottom of the long spinal farrow produced by the eminence of the spinal muscles on each side. OSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBRiE. Tlie Vertebrae in general.—The ossification of each vertebra proceeds in cartilage from three principal centres, one for the main part of the body, and one on each side for the arch and processes, together with a part on each side of the body. The lateral centres appear about the 7th week of foetal life, that of the Fig. 17.—Ossification of the ver- tebras. (R. Quain.) A, foetal vertebra, showing the three primary centres ; 1, 2, neural ossifica- tions ; 3, central ossification. B, dorsal vertebra from a child of two years ; 1 & 2 are seen to have en- croached upon the body at * the neuro- central suture, to have extended into the articular and transverse processes, and to have united behind in the spinous process, leaving the ends cartilaginous. C, dorsal vertebra at about seventeen years, showing epiphyses on the trans- verse processes, 4 & 5, and spinous process, 6, and the upper epiphysial plate of the body, 7. D & E, parts of a lumbar vertebra of about the same age, showing, in addi- tion to the foregoing, 8, the lower epi- physial plate of the body ; 9 & 10, the epiphyses of the mammillary tubercles. body very soon afterwards. From these centres the ossification extends gradually, so as to form the greater part of the vertebra. That of the body does not pass, however, in the dorsal vertebrae the place of articulation of the head of the rib, leaving on each side a portion of the body which is formed from the lateral centre, and is separated up to the third year by a narrow cartilaginous interval— the neuro-central suture. It would appear further, that while ossification in the arches commences first in the cervical vertebrae, the osseous centres of the bodies appear earliest in the lower dorsal vertebrae. At the time of birth most of the vertebras consist of three osseous pieces, cor- responding to the three original centres. In the first year of infancy the laminae of opposite sides become united in a number of the vertebras, but not in all. The spinous processes, remaining cartilaginous for a time, are gradually completed by the growth of the cartilage and the extension of the bone into them, and at the same time, by the ossific extension of the transverse processes and other parts, the vertebrae gradually attain to nearly their full size and shape about the age of puberty. At different periods subsequent to this, five epiphyses, or supplementary centres of ossification, are added. Three of these are small portions of bone, placed on the tips of the spinous and transverse processes: the other two are thin annular plates on the upper and lower surfaces of the body at its circumference. In the lumbar vertebrae two other epiphyses surmount the mammillary processes. These epiphyses appear from the sixteenth to the twentieth year, and are not wholly united to the rest of the vertebra before the twenty-fifth year. The transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra is sometimes developed altogether Fig. 17. A BOSSIFICATION OF THE VERTEBR2E. 21 from a separate centre. Most of tlie anterior divisions of the cervical transverse processes are ossified by the extension into them of osseous substance from the neighbouring- posterior part of the process and from the arch ; but those of the seventh usually present a separate osseous nucleus, and small nuclei have also been observed by Meckel in those of the second, fifth, and sixth vertebra. The Atlas and Axis.—The ossification of the atlas and axis differs consider- ably from that of the other vertebra. In the atlas, the body being absent, the anterior arch is formed by a strip of cartilage in which ossification, commencing Fig. 18.—Ossification of the atlas. (R. Quain.) A, before birth ; 1 & 2, lateral centres of ossification ; the anterior arch is carti- laginous. B, in the first year ; 1 & 2, as before ; 3, ossific centre in the anterior arch. by one or two centres, only appears in the course of the first year after birth. The neural arch, together with the processes, is formed from two lateral centres corresponding with those of the other vertebrae, and which begin to ossify about the 7th week. Their union posteriorly occurs in the 3rd year, and is frequently preceded by the formation of a distinct spinal nucleus. Their union with the nucleus of the anterior arch does non take place till the 5th or 6th year. In the axis the arch and processes are formed .from two centres corresponding to those of the other vertebrae, and appearing about the 7th or 8th week. Ossifi- cation begins in the body about the 4th month, from one or sometimes two centres, Fig. 19.—Ossification crP the axis as SEEN IN FRONT. (R. QUAIN.) A, from a foetus of seven months ; 3, the centre for the body ; 4 & 5, two centres for the base of the odontoid process. B, shortly after birth; 1 & 2 the lateral centres ; 3, centre for the body ; 6, tlie two centres for the odontoid process now united. occupying the lower part of the common cartilage of the body and odontoid process. In the upper part of this cartilage, a little later, two collateral centres appear for the odontoid process ; these soon unite into one, and become ossified to the body of the axis in the 3rd year. There is also a distinct centre in the apex of the process appearing in the 2nd year. The separate ossification of the odon- toid process is important in connection with the view that it is the displaced body of the atlas. Sacral Vertebrae.—Each of the sacral vertebral presents three primary centres of ossification, one in the body and a pair in the arch. The centres of the bodies of the first three vertebrae appear about the 8th or 9th week, those of the two foUowing vertebrae somewhat later. The laminae begin to ossify about the 6th month, but the time of union with the bodies differs in the different vertebrae ; taking place as early as the 2nd year in the lowest, but not till the 5th or 6th year in the uppermost. In each of the first three vertebrae (sometimes however only in two, sometimes in four) the anterior part of the lateral mass on each side is formed from an additional nucleus which appears at the outer margin of the anterior sacral foramen from the 6th to the 8th month. These unite to the bodies later than the arches. In the case of the two lower vertebras, the lateral masses are formed by extension of ossification from the primary lateral nuclei. On the body of each vertebra, epiphysial plates are formed after puberty, as in other22 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. vertebrae, and two flat irregular plates of bone are added to each lateral surface of the sacrum, the uppermost of -which extends over the auricular surface and the lower over the sharp edge below. These appear from the 18th to the 20th year, and are united about the 25th. The bodies of the sacral vertebrae are at first separated by intervertebral discs, but about the 18th year, in the case of the lower vertebrae, ossification begins to extend through these discs and the epiphyses, so as com- pletely to unite the adjacent bodies. The ossific union of the first and second bodies does not take place till the 25th year or later. Previous to this, the lateral masses have coalesced nearly in the same order as the bodies. The deficiency of the spine and dorsal part of the laminae usually existing in the fifth sacral vertebra, and not unfrequently extending to the fourth, but more rarely to the third, may be attributed in part to the non-extension of ossification in that direction : but such varieties of form, like many others to which the sacral vertebrae are subject, are probably intimately connected with the nature and development of the formative matrix of the bones. The more completely open state of the sacral canal posteriorly found in cases of spina bifida is un- doubtedly connected with early morbid changes interfering with the natural process of development. Fig. 20. Fig. 20.—Ossification of the sacrum. (R. Quain.) A, sacrum of a fcetus before six months, seen from the front, showing the ossific centre in the body of each vertebra, from 1 downwards. B, at birth ; 2, 2, additional centres for the lateral masses. C, about twenty-three years ; 3, 3, epiphysial plates still visible above and below the first vertebral body, the fissures still remaining between the first and second and the second and third lateral masses ; 4, 4', lateral epiphysial plates. D, upper surface of first sacral vertebra at four or five years, 1, and 2, as in A and B. (A. T.) A & B, nearly full size ; C, one-fourth ; D, one-third. Coccygeal Vertebrae.—Each of the coccygeal vertebrae is ossified from a distinct piece of cartilage, and usually from a single centre, but in the upper sometimes from two centres. Ossification commences in the first generally about the time of birth ; in the second, from the 5th to the 10th year ; in the third, some time before, and in the fourth, some time after puberty. The ossific union of the three lower coccygeal vertebrae occurs before middle life; their union with the first, and the union of this with the sacrum, belong to the later periods of life. F'or more detailed information concerning the ossification of the vertebrae, as well as of the bones generally, reference may be made to Rambaud et Renault, “ Origine et Developpement des Os,” Paris, 1864. GENERAL AND SERIAL HOMOLOGY OF THE VERTEBRiE. The study of the various forms presented by the parts of the vertebral column, and of its relation to the rest of the skeleton in man and animals, as also of its development in the foetus, has led to the formation of the general views of23 VERTEBRAL HOMOLOGIES. homology referred to in the introduction. These views originated, in somewhat different forms, mainly with Oken, Cams, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and Owen ; and, with various modifications and extensions by more recent writers, as Goodsir, Huxley, Gegenbaur, St. George Mivart, and Flower, are now admitted by almost all anatomists, in some shape or other, as the basis of a morphological doctrine of the construction of the skeleton. There is not, indeed, an entire agreement among anatomists with respect to some parts of this doctrine; but still there is such a general acknowledgment of both the zoological and serial homology of the parts composing the skeleton, that considerations of this kind cannot be entirely omitted in a work on human anatomy. At the same time, it is obvious that the complicated nature of the subject, and the necessity for frequent re- ference to details of comparative anatomy for its elucidation make it impossible to enter fully into its consideration here, so that our remarks must be limited to those points in which the views of homology have the most immediate bearing upon the knowledge of human anatomy. The accompanying views of the several vertebrae and some of their varieties as seen from above (in fig. 21) may assist the reader in comparing their forms. 1. The series of centra or bodies, surrounding the primary axis of the noto*- chord, is complete in man, from the odontoid process of the second vertebra to the caudal extremity. In the head it is ascertained to be prolonged into the basi- occipital and basisphenoid parts of the base of the skull. It is apparently absent in the atlas, or rather the part corresponding to the centrum or body of that vertebra is united with the body of the axis in the odontoid process : while the anterior arch of the atlas belongs to a different series of parts, not yet accu- rately determined, perhaps to the precentral or subcentral parts or lvypapopliyses. The proofs of this view are derived mainly from, 1st, the remains of the noto- chord having been actually traced in the foetus through the odontoid process (and not through the anterior arch of the atlas) into the basioccipital bone ; 2nd, the separate ossification in cartilage of the odontoid process ; and 3rd, the existence in some animals, as the omithorynchus and some reptiles, of a bone corresponding to the odontoid process, in a separate condition, without any other part representing the body of the atlas. 2. The series of neural arches is complete in the whole vertebral column of man, with the exception of the three lowest coccygeal vertebras, and in part of the upper coccygeal and lowest sacral vertebrae. The neural spines are also com- plete in nearly the same vertebrae as the arches. The spine is absent or little de- veloped in the atlas, bifid at its extremity in the next five cervical vertebrae, but simple in all the remaining vertebrae in which it is present. 3. The articular processes, or zygapophyses, superior and inferior (preaxial and postaxial), correspond in their relations throughout the whole of the vertebrae in which they exist, with the exception of both of those of the atlas and the superior of the axis. In these last mentioned vertebrae the articular pro- cesses are not in the series of zygapophyses, being situated at the place of union of the pedicles with the bodies, or nearly in the place of the capitular articulation of the ribs with the vertebral bodies, and therefore anterior to the place of exit of the spinal nerves, instead of posterior to it as in the other vertebra. In the sacral vertebra the articular processes, existing as such in early life, come to be in the adult united by anchylosis. In the three lower coccygeal vertebra they are absent. 4. It is in the comparison of the parts known in human anatomy under the general name of transverse processes that the main difficulty of establishing homologies exists. In all the cervical vertebra; the processes so called are pierced by a vertebrarterial foramen, and the most of them have two tubercles. Those of the dorsal vertebrae are for the most part simple, but are articulated at two places with the ribs. At these two places are situated processes, sometimes projecting in animals to a considerable extent; of which the dorsal, forming the costo-transverse articulation, is known as the t u bercular process (diapophysis) ; and the ventral, form- ing the costo-central articulation, is named the capitular process (parapophysis) and is placed close to the body, but separated from it by the neuro-central suture. It is very generally admitted that the part in front of the vertebrarterial foramen of24 VERTEBRAL COLUMN. a cervical vertebra corresponds in series to the first part of a rib ; as is illustrated by the separate ossification of that piece of bone in the seventh cervical vertebra in man, and by the occasional occurrence of a more fully developed cervical rib in that situation. The vascular passage in the dorsal region is between the neck of the rib and the vertebra. In the lumbar vertebrae the transverse processes are elongated laterally, and at their root two other processes become apparent, viz., the mam- millary or mctapophysis directed preaxially, and the accessory or anapophysis, directed postaxially. Several circumstances in the anatomy both of the bones and muscles, as well as the form and position of occasional or supernumerary lumbar ribs, seem to indicate that the outer part of the lumbar transverse processes is serially homologous with the first part of the ribs, but so intimately combined with both capitular and tubercular processes, and the part lying between them, as to leave no arterial passage ; but a groove on the upper side is regarded by some as an indication of the place of separation. In the sacral part of the column still greater departure from the form of the transverse process of the upper vertebras takes place by the large development and ossific union of the lateral parts. Throughout the whole five vertebras recognised as sacral in man, this may be looked upon as occurring to some extent in portions of the bones which are serially homologous with the combined capitular and tubercular processes ; but in the upjser sacral vertebras, another lateral element appears to be interposed be- tween that combined transverse process and the iliac surface of articulation, con- stituting the greater portion of the large lateral mass of the sacrum. This element is looked upon by some as serially homologous with part of a rib. (Retzius, Muller’s Arch., 1849 ; Muller, “ Vergl. Anat. der Myxinoiden Owen, “ On the Archetype, &c., of the Vert. Skeleton ; ” Aug. Muller, Muller's Arch., 1853 ; Humphry, “ Treatise on the Human Skeleton ; ” Goodsir, in Edin. New Phil. Journ., 1857 ; Cleland, in Nat. Hist. Rev., 18G1 and 1863; Huxley, Hunterian Lect., Brit. Med. Journ., 1869 ; St. George Mivart, Linn. Trans., 1870, and “ Elemen- tary Anatomy,” 1873 ; Flower, “ Osteology of the Mammalia,” 1870 ; Gegenbaur, “ Grundziige der Vergl. Anat.” 1870.) With the exception of the anterior arch of the atlas already referred to, there are no parts developed in the human skeleton corresponding to the hypa- pophyses which occur in connection with the vertebral column of animals, such as the “ chevron ” bones below the caudal vertebrae of cetacea, and the haemal arches enclosing the main artery of fishes. Fig. 21.—Views op the different vertebra from above to illustrate their HOMOLOGIES AND SOME OF THEIR VARIETIES. (A. T.) 1, atlas ; 2, axis ; 3, sixth cervical; 4, seventh cervical with supernumerary ribs; 5, middle dorsal ; 6, first dorsal, with costal arch and sternum attached ; 7, third lumbar ; 8, first lumbar with supernumerary ribs ; 9, fifth lumbar ; 10, first sacral; 11, first sacral vertebra, presenting the lumbar form on the right side, as in the oblique pelvis; 12, fourth sacral vertebra in a young subject; 13, four coccygeal vertebral. In the several figures the parts are indicated by letters as follows, viz., in 1, s, spine ; n, neural arch ; d, the space occupied by the odontoid process, or displaced body ; 7i, anterior or precentral arch, ar, superior articular process : in 2, c", odontoid process ; a?’, superior articular surface ; z' inferior articular process : in 3, c, centrum ; z, z', superior and inferior articular processes: in 4, t, t, transverse processes ; v, v, vertebrar- terial foramina ; co, moveable right supernumerary or cervical rib ; x, with a dotted line marking the place where an anckylosed rib on the left side may be considered tp be super- added to the transverse process of the vertebra: in 5, t, transverse process with costo-trans- verse facet; cc, costo-central facet: in 6, v, vascular interval ; ct, costo-transverse, and cc, costo-central articulations ; co, first rib : in 7, m, mammillary, and a, accessory tubercles ; t, transverse process : in 8, co, co* 1, left and right supernumerary ribs : in 10, l, the lateral mass : in 11, V, place of the lateral mass, remaining undeveloped in this instance : in 12, tl, the transverse process and lateral mass which unite with the corre- sponding parts above ;/, /', anterior and posterior sacral foramina thus formed : in 13, c, the centrum, which alone remains in the last coccygeal vertebra.25 VERTEBRAL HOMOLOGIES. lBONES OF THE THORAX. 26 II.—THE THORAX. The skeleton of the thorax consists of the dorsal vertebrae already described, the sternum, the ribs, and the costal cartilages. THE STERNUM OR BREAST-BONE. The sternum is situated in the median line at the fore part of the thorax. It is connected with the rest of the trunk by the cartilages of the first seven pairs of ribs, and gives attachment to the clavicles. It con- sists originally of six segments. The first of these usually remains distinct up to advanced life, and is called the manubrium or pre- sternum : the succeeding four are united into one in the adult, and form the body or mesosternum: the sixth generally remains cartilaginous for some years after birth, and sometimes partially so even to advanced age, constituting the ensiform process, or metasternum ; in middle life it is most frequently ossified and united by bone to the body. The sternum is flattened from before backwards, and presents a slight vertical curve with the convexity in front. It is of unequal width, being broad at the upper part of the presternum, considerably narrower at the lower end of that portion and in the first segment of the mesosternum, somewhat wider near the lower end of that portion, and finally narrowed near the junction with the metasternum. It consists of light cancellated tissue, with a thin covering of compact bone. The presternum is the thickest part of the bone. Its anterior surface presents a slight median elevation, its posterior is smooth and somewhat Fig. 22.—The sternum of a middle-aged MAN. (A. T.) 1. A, from before ; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, & 7, the articular surfaces for the corresponding costal cartilages ; 8, manubrium still sepa- rate from the body ; 9, body ; 10, ensiform process, osseous, and united to the body ; 11, interclavicular notch ; 12, clavicular notch. B, the same sternum viewed from the right side, showing the general convexity of the bone forwards. The different facets of articulation with the clavicle and costal cartilages will be distinguished by their position in comparing the figure B. with A. concave. Its upper border is di- vided into three deep notches ; the middle one is named the incisura semilunaris, or interclavicular notch; the lateral ones form two depressed articular surfaces directed upwards, outwards and backwards, for articulation with the clavicles, clavicular notches. Each lateral border presents superiorly close to the clavicular notch, a rough tri- angular surface, which unites with the cartilage of the first rib. Below this the bone slopes inwards, and at its inferior angle presents a small surface, which with a similar one on the mesosternum forms a notch for the cartilage of the second rib. The lower margin is straight and united by cartilage to the upper margin of the mesosternum.27 STERNUM. THE RIBS. The mesosternum is marked on its anterior surface by three slight transverse elevations at the lines of junction of its four component parts. Its posterior surface is comparatively smooth. Each lateral margin pre- sents five notches for the reception of costal cartilages, and a small surface superiorly, which, with the similar depression on the presternum, forms the notch for the second costal cartilage. The notches for the third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages are opposite the lines of junction of the four segments of the body of the sternum ; those of the sixth and seventh are placed close together on the sides of the inferior segment, that for the seventh being completed by the ensiform process. The metastermun, ensiform process, or xiphisternum, is a thin spatula- like process projecting downwards between the cartilages of the seventh ribs. It is subject to frequent varieties of form ; being sometimes bent forwards, sometimes backwards, often forked, and sometimes perforated. The sternum is subcutaneous in the middle line, forming the floor of the sternal groove between the pectoral muscles which cover the lateral portions of the anterior surface. The upper end is marked by the deep suprasternal notch, and the ensiform process lies at the bottom of the infrasternal depres- sion, the latter being due to the prominence of the mesosternum and the seventh costal cartilages beyond the surface of the xiphisternum. The sternum is subject to many varieties of form. It is not unfrequently much shorter than usual, and indented at its lower part, as occurs especially from the pressure of the cobbler’s last. Occasionally the lower part of the body is perforated by the so-called foramen sternale (fig. 26, E.) ; and in rare cases the sternum has been found divided to a greater or less extent, constituting the malformation of fissura stemi, and connected in some instances with ectopia cordis. (Case of E. Groux, described by Allen Thomson in Glasgow Med. Journ., 1858 ; Gibson and Malet, Journ. Anat. xiv. 1; Turner, il>. 103.) Two small nodules of bone, ossa sujirasternalia, have been found in some rare cases at the sides of the incisura close to the clavicular notches, united by cartilage and ligament to the sternum. Their position is indicated by the aste- risks (**) in figure 26, E. They appear to be vestiges of the episternal bone of monotremata and lizards, the lateral parts of which are represented normally in the interarticular fibro-cartilages of the stemo-clavicular articulations. (Breschet, Ann. des Sc. Nat., 2nd series, x. 91 ; Luschka, “ Die Halsrippen und die Ossa suprastemalia,” Vienna, 1859; Gegenbaur, Jenaische Zeitschr. i. 175. Bardeleben, Jenaische Sitzungsberichte, 1879, s. 146.) THE RIBS. The ribs (costce), twelve in number on each side, constitute a series of arched and highly elastic bones, which extend outwards and forwards from the vertebral column, and form the lateral walls of the thorax. Their anterior extremities give attachment to cartilaginous prolongations—the costal cartilages, the first seven pairs of which pass forward to "the sternum. On this account the first seven pairs of ribs are called sternal, and the remaining five pairs asternal ribs. Of these asternal ribs each of the upper three has its cartilage attached along its superior border to the cartilage of the rib above it, while the two last, being entirely free from such attachment, are called floating ribs. General characters of the ribs.—These are best marked in the ribs near the middle of the series. The posterior extremity is thickened, and js termed the head or capitulum; it presents a superior and an inferior oblique articular surface for articulation with the bodies of two vertebrae, and, between them, a slight ridge, to which the interarticular ligament is attached. Ac a little distance from the head, and separatedBONES OF THE THORAX. 28 from it by the slightly constricted neclc, is the tubercle, which is directed backwards, and presents a smooth surface for articulation with the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebrae with which the head is connected, and, outside that, a roughness marking the insertion of the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The whole extent beyond the tubercle constitutes the body. It is laterally compressed, and broader from above downwards towards the anterior extremity. Outside the tubercle, over the most convex part of the body, is a rough line wdiich corresponds to the outer border of the erector spinae muscle, and. Fig. 23.—The first, sixth, and twelfth ribs of the right side. (A. T.) ^ A, the sixth seen from above and the outer side ; B, the same rib from below and within ; C, the first rib from above ; D, the twelfth rib from above. 1, the head in C & D, the intervertebral ridge in B; **, the costo-central facets ; 2, neck ; 3, tubercle, in B presenting the rough tubercle and the smooth facet for articulation with the transverse process ; 4, lower border with the ridge and subcostal groove ; 5, upper border ; 6, oval pit for the attachment of the costal cartilage ; 7, in C, the scalene tubercle, and behind it the smooth groove for the subclavian artery. marks tbe angle, so-called because at this point the rib takes a more sudden curve, its direction being now forwards and outwards. Tbe inferior border presents on its inner aspect the subcostal groove, in which lie the intercostal vessels and nerve, and which is best marked opposite the angle and disappears in front. The anterior extremity is hollowed at its tip into an oval pit, in which the costal cartilage is implanted. Inclination and curves.—There is a general inclination of the ribs downwards from the head to the anterior extremity, the slope being- greatest between the head and angle. The curve of the ribs is more marked towards the back part than in front, especially near the angle. Besides the main curves now mentioned the rib is slightly twisted on itself, so that while its surfaces are vertical behind, they are placed somewhat obliquely in front. Special characters of certain ribs.—The ribs increase in length from the first to the seventh or eighth, and decrease to the twelfth, so that the last is little longer, often even shorter, than the first. The first rib is the broadest, and after it the middle ones ; the twelfth is the narrowest. The distance of the angle from the tubercle increases gradually from above down. The first rib is not twisted, and is so placed that its surfaces look29 THE THORAX AS A "WHOLE. nearly upwards and downwards. The head is small, and presents a single articular surface for the first dorsal vertebra. The neck is slender, and the angle coincides with the tubercle. On the superior surface are two very slight smooth depressions with an intervening rough mark, and a considerable rough surface behind. The rough surface marks the attachment of the scalenus medius muscle, the posterior depression the position of the subclavian artery, the anterior depression the subclavian vein; and the intervening slight elevation, frequently terminating in a sharp spine on the inner edge—the scalene tubercle—indicates the attachment of the scalenus anticus muscle. The second rib, longer than the first, presents externally a prominent roughness which marks the attachment of the serratus magnus. The eleventh and twelfth ribs have no tubercle, and only a single arti- culating surface on the head. The subcostal groove is scarcely perceptible on the eleventh, and is absent, together with the angle, from the twelfth. Varieties.—The number of the ribs is sometimes increased to thirteen on one or both sides. The supernumerary rib is usually very short, and is most frequently formed in connection with the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, or occasionally with the seventh cervical: in the latter case the addi- tional rib has generally a double attachment, viz., to the body and transverse pro- cess of the vertebra outside a vertebrarterial foramen (see fig. 21,4, v, v, and 8, co.) The costal cartilages unite the ribs to the sternum. Their breadth diminishes gradually from the first to the last, whilst their length increases as far as the seventh, after which they become gradually shorter. Their line of direction varies considerably. The first descends a little, the second is horizontal, and all the rest, except the last two, ascend more and more from the rib towards the sternum as they are situated lower down. The external or costal extremity, convex and uneven, is implanted into and united with the end of the corresponding rib. The internal extremities of the upper seven (except the first) are smaller than the external, somewhat pointed, and fit into the corresponding angular surfaces on the side of the sternum, with which they are articulated in synovial cavities. Each of the cartilages of the first three asternal ribs becomes slender towards its extremity, and is attached to the lower border of that which is next above it. The last two are pointed and unattached. The sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth cartilages form a series of interchondral articulations, by means of a broad process sent down from the rounded angle of the one meeting a less salient projection from the upper border of the next. The first cartilage, which is directly united to the sternum without articular cavity, usually becomes more or less ossified in the adult male ; and the others likewise exhibit a considerable tendency to ossify in advanced life. This tendency is not so great in the female, in whom costal respiration is generally more extended than in the male. THE THOBAX AS A WHOLE. The bony thorax is of a somewhat conical shape, flattened from before back, and much longer behind than in front. The posterior wall, formed by the dorsal vertebra; and the ribs, is convex from above down, and, the ribs being directed backwards from the vertebra; as far as their angles, a broad furrow is produced on each side of the spine which lodges the erector spina; muscle. The anterior wall, formed by the sternum and costal cartilages, is only slightly convex, and is inclined at an angle ofBONES OF THE THORAX. 30 20° to 25° with the vertical. In the condition of expiration the upper border of the sternum is opposite the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrae, the junction of the manubrium and body opposite the middle of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and the xiphi-sternal articulation about opposite the interspace between the ninth and tenth dorsal vertebrae. Fig. 24.—Front view of the thorax, SnOWINO THE STERNUM, COSTAL CARTI- LAGES, RIBS, AND DORSAL VERTEBRAS. £ 1, manubrium ; 2, is close to the place of union of the first costal cartilage ; 3, clavicular notch ; 4, body of the sternum ; 5, ensiform process; 6, groove on the lower border of the ribs ; 7, the vertebral end of the ribs ; 8, neck ; 9, tubercle ; 10, costal cartilage ; 12, first rib ; 13, its tubercle ; 14, first dorsal vertebra ; 15, eleventh, 16, twelfth rib. The sides are sloped outwards to about the ninth rib, are slightly convex from above down, and strongly arched from before back. The upper aperture is contracted, reniform, nearly plane, and much sloped downwards ; the lower is irregular, the margin ascends on each side from the tenth rib to the xiphi-sternal articulation, and thus gives rise to the subcostal angle into the centre of which the ensiform process projects. The form of the cavity corresponds generally to that of the exterior, but in the middle line the antero-posterior diameter is much reduced by the projection of the bodies of the vertebrae ; as a consequence of this and the backward direction of the hinder ends of the ribs, a deep hollow is formed on each side, into which the posterior portions of the lungs are received, and thus the weight of the body is thrown farther back and is more equally distributed around the vertebral column. The intercostal spaces are eleven in number, somewhat wider above than below, but varying with the elevation or depression of the ribs. Fig. 24. OSSIFICATION OF THE RIBS AND STERNUM. The ossification of the ribs begins in cartilage posteriorly about the eighth week of foetal life, and extends rapidly forwards, so as to reach the permanent Fig. 25.—One of the middle ribs at about twenty years of age. (R. Quain.) 1, body; 2, epiphysis of the head ; 3, that of the tubercle.31 OSSIFICATION OF THE BIBS AND STEENUM. cartilage about the fourth month. After puberty the centres of two small epi- physes appear in the cartilage of the head and tubercle. These become united with the main bone by the twenty-fifth year. The tubercular epiphysis is wanting in the eleventh and twelfth. The ossification of the sternum begins about the sixth month, and usually by a single centre in the presternum. The next centre appears at the seventh month in the upper segment of the mesosternum, and ossification follows in the next two segments shortly before birth. In the lower segment ossification begins in the first year or later, in the metasternum usually not before the sixth Fig. 26. Fig. 26.—Ossification of the sternum. (R. Quain.) A, the cartilaginous sternum before the middle of fcetal life. B, the sternum of a child at birth. 1, 2, 3, & 4, mark the commencing ossific nuclei for the manubrium and three upper pieces of the body. C, the sternum soon after puberty, showing cartilage between the manubrium and body, and imperfect union of the first, second and third pieces of the body, while the third and fourth are united. D, a sternum at birth with an unusual number of ossific centres, six in the manubrium, 1', which is very uncommon ; two pairs in the lower pieces of the body 3' & 4' which is not unusual; 2, the single centre of the first piece of the body. E, example of the perforated sternum, which depends upon the imperfect union of the pairs of ossific nuclei shown in D in the lower part of the body ; this figure also shows two episternal bones, * *, C and E are reduced below the size of nature. year, and often much later. In the presternum sometimes two centres of ossi- fication appear, one above the other, and occasionally several are met with. In the upper segment of the mesosternum the centre is most commonly single, but in each of the following segments there are frequently two placed one on each side of the middle line. The lower segments of the mesosternum unite together after puberty, but the upper one often remains separate till after the twenty-fifth year. The metastemum is united to the mesosternum in middle life, the pre- stemum in more advanced life, and then not invariably. The bony parts formed from the lateral centres of the lower segments of the mesosternum, as well as of the metastemum, not unfrequently remain separate for a considerable time, and occasionally, by defect of ossification or non-union across the middle line, leave the permanent median aperture referred to on p. 27.BONES OF THE HEAD. 32 SURFACE. (A. T.) J III.—THE BONES OP THE HEAD. The skull, comprising the bones of the head, is of a spheroidal figure, compressed on the sides, broader behind than before, and supported on the vertebral column. All its bones, with the exception of the lower jaw, are immoveably united together by lines and narrow surfaces, more or less uneven, termed sutures. The skull is divided by anatomists into two parts, the cranium and the face. The cranium protects the brain ; the face surrounds the mouth and nasal passages, and completes with the cranium the orbits or cavities for the eyes. The cranium is composed of eight bones, viz.: the occipital, two 'parietal, the frontal, two temporal, the sphenoid, and the ethmoid. The face is composed of fourteen bones, of which twelve are in pairs, viz. : the superior maxillary, malar, nasal, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbinate bones; and two single, viz.: the vomer, and the inferior maxilla. The hyoid bone, suspended by ligaments from the under surface of the cranium, may also be classed with the bones of the head. THE OCCIPITAL BONE. The occipital bone is situated at the lower and back part of the cranium. In general form it is rhomboidal, and through its lower and anterior part passes a large oval aperture, foramen magnum, forming the communication between the cranium and spinal canal. The portion of 1, basilar process ; 2, con- dylar portion, the probe marks the anterior condylar foramen; 3, jugular process ; 4, lateral angle ; 5, superior angle ; 6, superior curved line ; 7, ex- ternal occipital protuberance; 7, 8, external occipital crest; 9, 10, inferior curved line ; 11, foramen magnum; 12, con- dyle, immediately above it the posterior condylar foramen. the bone behind the for- amen is tabular, the nar- rower part in front forms a thick mass named basilar process, and the parts on the sides of the i foramen, bearing the condyles or articulating processes by which the head is supported on the atlas, are the condylar portions. The two superior borders are deeply serrated, and are articulated with the parietal bones in the lambdoid suture. By its two inferior borders, which are uneven but not deeply serrated, it articulates with the mastoid Fig. 27. 5 Fig. 27. —Occipital bone FROM BELOW AND BEHIND, SHOWING THE EXTERNAL33 OCCIPITAL BONE. and petrous portions of the temporal bone, while the extremity of its basilar process is united to the body of the sphenoid, in the young con- dition by cartilage, but after the age of twenty years by continuous Fig' 2S. — Occipital bone PROM BEFORE, SHOWING THE INTERNAL SURFACE. (A.T.)t^ 1, basilar process sawn through at the place of union with the sphenoid bone ; 2, condylar portion ; 3, jugular process ; x, between 2 & 3, groove of the lateral sinus and jugular notch; 4, lateral angle; 5, superior angle ; 1 to 3, the edge of articulation with the petrous bone ; 3 to 4, with the mastoid bone; 4 to 5, with the parietal bone ; 11, fora- men magnum ; 13, internal occipital protuberance and groove of the torcular Hero- phili; 14, internal occipital crest; 15, groove of the lateral sinus ; from 5 to 13, groove of the superior longitudinal sinus; 16, cerebral fossa ; 17, cerebellar fossa. osseous substance. The rhomboidal form gene- rally given by the meeting of these borders at the four angles is not unfrequently somewhat changed to the octagonal, by the greater or less projection of subordinate obtuse angles between the upper and lateral, and between the lateral and lower angles. The tabular portion, or supraoccipital, on its posterior surface presents about the centre a prominence, varying greatly in its develop- ment in different skulls, the external occipital protuberance, which can be felt under the skin at the back of the bead ; arching outwards from this on each side is the superior curved line, which divide's the surface into two parts, an upper and a lower: the upper part is convex and smooth, and is covered by tlie hairy scalp ; the lower is more uneven ; it is divided into two lateral portions by a median ridge called the external occipital crest, and each of these is again divided into an upper and a lower surface by the inferior curved line, which can be followed outwards to the extremity of the jugular process. The curved lines and the areas thus marked out give attachment to the numerous muscles of the back of the neck. The deep surface of the hone is marked by two smooth ridges which cross one another, one extending from the upper angle to the foramen magnum, and the other transversely from one lateral angle to the other ; at the point of intersection of these ridges is the internal occipital pro- tuberance. Separated by these ridges are four hollows, the superior and inferior occipital fossae, which lodge respectively the posterior cerebral and the cerebellar lobes. The superior part of the longitudinal and the transverse ridges are grooved in the course of the longitudinal and lateral venous sinuses respectively. The wider space where the longitudinal. VOL i. dBONES OF THE HEAD. groove is continued into one of the lateral grooves (more frequently the right) by side of the internal occipital protuberance lodges the torcular Herophili. The inferior ridge is single, and is named the internal occi- pital crest. The margins of the tabular portion are deeply serrated above the lateral angles for articulation with the parietal bones ; below that level, they unite with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. The condylar portions, or exoccipitals, bear the articulating con- dyles on their lower part close to the margin of the foramen magnum in its anterior half. The condyles are elliptical and converge somewhat in front; their surfaces are convex from behind forwards and from side to side, and somewhat everted. On the inner side of each is a rough impres- sion for the attachment of the lateral odontoid ligament of the axis. Per- forating the bone at the base of the condyle is the anterior condylar foramen, running from the interior of the cranium immediately above the foramen magnum outwards and forwards, and transmitting the hypoglossal nerve ; the foramen is occasionally double. Behind the condyle is a pit, 'posterior condylar fossa, containing usually the posterior condylar foramen ; this gives passage to a vein, but it varies greatly in size, and is often absent on one or both sides. Externally to the condyle is a projecting* portion of bone known as the jvyular process; this lies over the trans- verse process of the atlas, is continuous posteriorly with the tabular part, whilst anteriorly it has a free excavated margin, the jugular notch, which contributes, with a notch in the temporal bone, to form the jugular foramen. Its extremity presents a small irregular surface, which articu- lates by synchondrosis with the petrous part of the temporal bone, and in early adult life enters into osseous union with that. The upper surface of the jugular process is marked by a deep groove for the lateral sinus leading to the jugular notch, and here is seen the inner opening of the posterior condylar foramen ; the under surface is rough for the insertion of the rectus capitis lateralis muscle. The basilar process, or basioccipital, projects forwards and up- wards in the middle of the base of the skull. It increases in thickness and diminishes in breadth towards its extremity. On the inferior surface in the mid-line is a small elevation, pharyngeal tubercle, for the attach- ment of the fibrous raphe of the pharynx, and on each side of this are impressions for the rectus capitis anticus major and minor muscles. Its superior surface presents a smooth depression, the basilar groove, which supports the medulla oblongata, and close to each lateral margin a shallow groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. THE PARIETAL BONE. The parietal bones form a considerable part of the roof of the skull. They have the shape of quadrilateral plates, convex externally, concave internally. They are a little broader and thicker above than below ; the anterior inferior angle is the most projecting. They articulate with each other in the middle line, with the frontal bone anteriorly, the occipital posteriorly, and the temporal and sphenoid below. On the outer surface, near its middle, a more marked convexity exists forming the parietal eminence. Below this is the curved temporal line, bounding an area somewhat flatter than the rest, temporal surface, which, forms part of the temporal fossa. Close to the upper border, and nearer to the posterior angle, is the small parietal foremen.PARIETAL BONE. 35 The inner surface is concave, the deepest part, opposite the parietal eminence, being known as the parietal fossa; it is marked by shallow depressions corresponding with the convolutions of the brain, and by Fig. 29.—External surface Piw. 29. OF THE EIGHT PARIETAL BONE. (A. T.) § 1, posterior superior angle ; 2, anterior superior angle ; 3, posterior inferior angle; 4, anterior inferior angle, articu- lating with the great wing of the sphenoid bone ; from 1 to 2, superior border in the sagittal suture ; from 2 to 4, anterior border in the coronal suture; from 1 to 3, posterior border in the lambdoid suture ; from 4 to 6, margin of the squamous suture ; from 3 to 6, margin articulating with mastoid ; 5, temporal line above which is the parietal eminence; 8, parietal fora- men. narrower furrows branch- ing upwards and back- wards from the lower border for the middle meningeal vessels. The largest of these grooves running from the anterior inferior angle is sometimes converted into a canal for a shoi t distance. A slight depression along the inner part of Fig. 30.—The parietal bone FROM THE INSIDE. (A.T.) 5 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, & 8, indicate the same parts as in the last figure : between 1 & 2 the half groove of the su- perior longitudinal sinus ; 3', groove of the lateral sinus; 7, the ramified grooves of the meningeal vessels; above x the groove is converted into a canal; 9, the irregular pits for the Pacchionian bodies. the superior border forms, with the one of the oppo- site side, the groove of the longitudinal sinus ; and a depression at the posterior inferior angle forms a small part of the Fig. 30. groove of the lateral sinus, blear the upper border there are in most skulls, but particularly in those of old persons, small irregular pits, lodging the Pacchionian bodies. Borders.—The anterior, superior, and posterior borders are deeply serrated. The inferior border presents in the greater part of its extent a x> 236 EOXES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 31. Fig. 31.—Frontal bone from sharp or squamous edge, with a slightly fluted surface directed outwards and overlapped at its anterior extremity by the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind that by the squamous part of the temporal bone ; its posterior part is serrated, and articulates with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior border is slightly overlapped by the frontal bone above, but overlaps the edge of that bone interiorly. Varieties.—The parietal foramen varies greatly ; frequently it is absent on one or both sides; in extreme cases it has been seen more than half an inch in diameter. As a rare occurrence the parietal bone is divided by a suture into an upper and a lower part. Considerable depressions sometimes occur on the outer surface, in which the bone is not thicker than paper ; usually on both sides and symmetrical. THE FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone, arching upwards and backwards above the orbits, forms the fore part of the cranium ; it likewise presents interiorly two thin horizontal laminae, the orbital plates, which form the roofs of the orbits and are separated by a mesial excavation, the ethmoidal notch. It articulates with twelve bones, viz., posteriorly with the parietals and sphenoid ; outside the orbits with the malars ; and between the orbits, from before backwards, with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones. Anterior surface.—The part forming the greatest convexity of the forehead on each side is called the frontal eminence. It is separated by a slight depression below from the superciliary ridge, a curved elevation of varying prominence above the margin of the orbit. Between the superciliary ridges is the surface called glabella. The margin of BEFORE, SHOWING ITS EXTER- NAL SURFACE. (A. T.) ^ 1, frontal eminence ; 2, nasal spine, and above this the ser- rated surface for articulation of the nasal and superior maxil- lary bones; 3 to 4, orbital arch ■—3, internal, and 4, external angular process; 5, supraorbital notch; 6, glabella; 7, super- ciliary ridge ; 8, temporal crest, and behind this the temporal surface. the orbit, the orbital arch, is most defined towards its outer part; it presents towards its inner third the supraorbital notch, some- times a foramen, which transmits the supraorbital nerve and artery. The ■extremities of the orbital arch point downwards, and form the internal and external angular processes. The internal is but slightly marked, it meets the lachrymal bone ; the external is strong and projecting, and articulates with the malar bone. The temporal crest springs from the external process, and arches upwards and backwards to be continued intoS7 FRONTAL BONE. the temporal line of the parietal bone : it separates the temporal from the frontal part of the outer surface of the bone. Inferior surface.—The orbital surfaces are somewhat triangular, their internal margins being parallel, while the external are directed backwards and inwards. Close to the external angular process is the lachrymal fossa, which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and close to the internal angular process is a small depression, trochlear fossa, where the pulley of the superior oblique muscle is attached. Between the orbits in front is the nasal notch, a semilunar serrated surface which articulates with the superior maxillary and nasal bones; in the concavity of the notch a sharp process of variable length, the nasal spine, descends in the middle line between the latter bones and the central plate of the ethmoid, and on each side of this is a small grooved surface which enters into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa. Between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margin of the orbit is an irregular surface occupied by depressions forming the roots of cells in the ethmoid bone. Travers- ing this surface are two grooves, which complete, with the ethmoid, the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals ; the anterior transmits the nasal nerve and the anterior ethmoidal vessels ; the other, the pos- terior ethmoidal vessels. Further forward, on each side of the nasal spine, is the opening of the frontal sinus, a cavity which extends within the bone for a variable distance behind the superciliary ridges. Outside and behind the orbital surface, there is a large rough triangular area which articulates with the great wing of the sphenoid. Cerebral surface.—This surface forms a large concavity, except over the roofs of the orbits, which are convex. Upon it are seen the impres- Fig. 32.—The frontal bone Fig. 32. FROM BEHIND AND BELOW, SHOWING THE INTERNAL CERE- BRAL SURFACE AND THE ROOF OF THE ORBITS. (A. T.) ^ 2, 4, and 5, as in the preceding figure; 9, internal or cerebral surface ; 10, groove of the su- perior longitudinal sinus, ending below in 11, the frontal crest, which leads down to 13, the foramen csecum; 12, orbital plate, the number is placed in the depression for the lachrymal gland ; 14, opening of the frontal sinus ; 15, placed on the roof of the orbit internally, is near the opening of the anterior in- ternal orbital canal; 16, surface of articulation with great wing of sphenoid. sions of the cerebral con- volutions, which, with the intervening ridges, are strongly marked over the orbits. A groove, the frontal sulcus, lodging the longitudinal sinus, descends from the middle of the upper margin of the bone, and is succeeded by the frontal crest, a ridge which runs down to the lower margin. A small foramen, usually formed in part by the central plate of the ethmoid,BOXES OF THE HEAD. 38 Fig. 33.—Right tempo- Fig. 33. is situated at its base ; it is known as the foramen actum, but may transmit a minute vein from the nasal fossae. The upper and greater part of the edge encompassing the cerebral surface of the bone is serrated, and articulates with the parietal bones in the coronal suture in the manner before described ; the lower transverse part is thin and uneven, and articulates with the greater and lesser wings of the sphenoid. The adult frontal bone is frequently divided into two parts by a median suture, the frontal or metopic suture which may be regarded as the persistence of the original foetal condition ; a trace of this suture is to be seen even in the oldest skulls above the root of the nose. THE TEMPORAL BONE. The temporal bone takes part in the formation of the side and base of the skull, and. contains in its interior the organ of hearing. It is usually described in three parts, viz., an expanded anterior and superior part, the squamous portion including the zygomatic process, a thicker posterior portion, the mastoid, and below and between these the petrous portion, a three-sided pyramid, exhibiting at its base externally the aperture of the ear, and projecting forwards and inwards into the base of the skull. It articulates posteriorly and internally with the occipital bone, superiorly with the parietal, anteriorly with the sphenoid, by the zygomatic process with the malar, and by the glenoid cavity with the inferior maxillary bone. The squamous portion, or squamo-zygomatic, extends forwards and upwards from its connection with the other portions, and presents supe- riorly an arched border which describes about two-thirds of a circle. The inner surface is marked by cerebral impressions, and by meningeal grooves. At its upper border the outer table is prolonged considerably ral BONE FROM THE OUTSIDE. (A. T.) | 1, squamous part ; 2, zygoma ; 3, mastoid part,, 3 x , mastoid process; 4, articular part of the gle- noid fossa; 5, articular eminence at the root of the zygoma, and above it the tubercle ; 6, fissure of Glaser ; 7, tympanic plate forming the posterior noil-articular part of the glenoid fossa, terminating inferiorly in the vaginal process; 8, external au- ditory meatus ; 9, auditory process; 10, styloid pro- cess ; 13 x , mastoid fora- men. beyond the inner, forming a thin scale with the fluted surface looking inwards and overlapping the corresponding bevelled edge of the parietal hone. But in front the border is thicker, looks forwards and inwards, and is serrated for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid.39 TEMPORAL BONE. The order surface is in its greatest extent vertical, with a slight con- vexity, and forms part of the temporal fossa. From its lowest part a long process, the zygoma, takes origin. Fig. 34.—The eight tem- poral BONE FROM THE INNER SIDE. (A. T. ) | 2, 3 x , 10, as in the pre- ceding figure. 11, cerebral surface of the squamous por- tion ; 11 x , the squamous edge ; 12, inner surface of the mastoid portion ; 13, sigmoid groove of the lateral sinus— the figure is placed at its upper part, and close to the mastoid foramen; 14, apex of the petrous bone ; 15,. in- ternal auditory meatus ; 16, scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule; 17, is above the aqueduct of the cochlea ; 18, superior pe- trosal groove ; 19, eminence of the superior semicircular canal; 20, hiatus Fallopii. Fig. 34. The zygoma, or zygomatic process, is connected with the lower and outer part of the squamous portion, and is of considerable breadth at its base, which projects outwards. It then turns forwards, becomes narrower, and is twisted on itself so as to present outer and inner surfaces and upper and lower borders. The superior margin is thinner, and prolonged further forward than the inferior. The bevelled extremity is serrated, and articulates with the malar bone. At its base the zygoma presents two roots; the anterior, continuous with the lower border, is a broad convex ridge, directed inwards on the under aspect of the bone; the posterior, prolonged from the upper border, passes backwards above the external auditory meatus, marks the line of division between the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone, and turning upwards posteriorly forms the boundary of the temporal fossa. At the point of division of the two roots is a slight tubercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw. Between the two roots is the glenoid fossa, a considerable hollow, elongated from without inwards, and divided into two parts by the nearly transverse fissure of Glaser. The posterior part of the glenoid fossa is formed by the tympanic plate of the petrous division of the bone, is non-articular, and lodges a portion of the parotid gland; the anterior part of the fossa, together with the cylindrical elevation, articular eminence, formed by the anterior root of the zygoma in front of it, is coated with cartilage, and forms the concavo-convex surface for articulation with the lower jaw; the articular cavity is bounded behind by a small conical process which descends in front of the external auditory meatus, and is known as the postglenoid process. In front of the articular eminence, and separated from the temporal surface by a slight ridge, is a small triangular area which enters into the zygomatic fossa. The mastoid portion is rough externally for the attachment of muscles, and is prolonged downwards behind the aperture of the ear into a nipple-shaped projection—the mastoid process. This process has on itsBEL01V. (A. T.) | BOXES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 35.—The right temporal bone from Fig. 35. 40 inner side a deep groove, the digastric fossa, which gives attachment to the digastric muscle ; and internal to that is the slight occipital groove, for the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion is marked by a deep sigmoid depression, which is part of the groove of the lateral sinus. A passage for a vein, of very variable size, the mastoid foramen, usually pierces the bone near its posterior margin, and opens into the groove. 2, 3, 3 x , 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, as in tlie preceding figures. 14, is at the apex of the petrous bone in the upper opening of the carotid canal ; 17, aqueduct of the cochlea ; 21, lower rough surface of the petrous bone ; 22, the lower opening of the carotid canal ; 23, the small foramen of Jacobson’s nerve ; 24, the jugular fossa, and within it, 25, the foramen of Ar- nold’s nerve ; 26, stylo-mastoid foramen—the figure is placed in the anterior part of the digastric fossa ; 27, groove of the occipital artery ; 28, place of the anterior opening of the osseous Eustachian canal. The petrous portion is named from its hardness. It contains the organ of hearing. It forms a three- sided pyramid, with its base directed outwards, one surface looking down- wards, and the other two turned towards the interior of the skull. Inferior surface, base, and apex.—At the base is the aperture of the ear. It forms a short canal, the external auditory meatus, directed inwards and a little forwards, narrower in the middle than at its extremities, and leading into the cavity of the tympanum, part of which is seen from the exterior in the macerated bone. It is bounded superiorly by the posterior root of the zygoma, and in the remainder of its circumference chiefly by the external auditory process, a curved uneven border, to which the cartilage of the ear is attached. This process is the thickened outer extremity of the tympanic plate, a lamina one surface of which forms the anterior and inferior wall of the external auditory meatus and the tympanum, while the other looks towards the glenoid fossa. The upper margin of the tympanic plate is separated from the squamous by the fissure of Glaser, while its lower margin descends as a sharp edge, the vaginal process, which partly surrounds the styloid process at its base. The styloid process is long and tapering, and is directed downwards and forwards. It is placed in front of the digastric fossa, and has immediately behind it the foramen which forms the outlet of the canal of the facial nerve, named stylo-mastoid from its position between the styloid and mastoid processes. Internal to the stylo-mastoid foramen is a small irregular surface, jugular facet, which articulates by synchondrosis with the jugular process of the occipital bone. In front of this comes a smooth and deep depression, the jugular fossa, which forms with the jugular notch of the occipital bone the jugular foramen. In front of the jugular fossa is the carotid foramen, the inferior extremity of the carotid canal;41 TEMPORAL BONE. and internal to the carotid foramen is a rough free surface which is con- tinued into the inner extremity, or apex of the petrous bone. The carotid canal ascends at first perpendicularly, then turns horizontally forwards and inwards, and emerges at the apex, close to the anterior margin ; it transmits the internal carotid artery. The posterior surface looks backwards and inwards, and forms part of the posterior fossa in the base of the skull. It presents a large orifice leading into a short canal which is directed outwards, the internal auditorij meatus. This canal is terminated by a plate of bone, the lamina cribrosa, presenting in the lower part small apertures through which the divisions of the auditory nerve pass, while in its upper part is the commencement of the canal called aqueduct of Fallopius, which transmits the facial nerve. This canal takes a somewhat circuitous course through the petrous bone, passing outwards and backwards over the labyrinth of the ear, and then downwards to terminate at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The anterior or upper surface looks upwards and forwards, and forms part of the middle fossa in the base of the skull. A depression near the apex marks the position of the Gasserian ganglion. A narrow groove rims obliquely backwards and outwards to a foramen named the hiatus Fallopii, which leads to the aqueduct of Fallopius, and transmits the large superficial petrosal nerve. Farther back is a rounded eminence, indicating the situation of the superior semicircular canal. The line of separation of this surface of the petrous from the internal surface of the squamous is always marked by a narrow fissure, petrosquamous, com- mencing' anteriorly at the retiring angle between the two portions, and generally to be traced less distinctly to the posterior border of the bone. The portion of bone between this fissure externally and the eminence of the superior semi- circular canal and the hiatus Fallopii internally is a thin lamina, often perforated, which roofs in the tympanum and the common canal of the Eustachian tube and tensor tympani muscle, and is known as the tegmen tympani. The superior border is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus. The anterior border is very short, and forms at its junction with the squamous part an angle in which is situated the orifice of the Eustachian canal, the osseous portion of a tube of the same name, which leads from the pharynx to the tympanum; and above this, partially separated from it by a thin lamella, the processus cochlear if or mis, is a small passage which lodges the tensor tympani muscle. The posterior border internal to the jugular fossa articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and forms with that the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Small Foramina.—The opening of the aqueduct of the vestibule is a narrow fissure, covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about four lines outside the internal auditory meatus; that of the aqueduct of the cochlea is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugular fossa are a groove and foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. The so-called fissure of Glaser is for the most part closed, but near the inner end a small orifice is left leading to the tympanic cavity, and which contains the slender process of the malleus, the laxator tympani muscle, and the tympanic branch of42 BOXES OF THE HEAD. the internal maxillary artery ; while farther inwards another small canal may be seen by which the chorda tympani nerve issues. The description of the Small Bones of the Ear with the Tympanum and Internal Ear will be found in the chapter on the Organs of the Senses. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid hone is placed across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or body, a pair of lateral expansions called the great wings, Fig. 36. Fig 36.—The sphenoid bone from above and behind. (A. T.) 1, the basilar surface, sawn from the occipital bone ; 2, Dorsum sellfe terminating superiorly in the two posterior clinoiil processes ; 3, is placed on the olivary eminence, and between it and 2 is the sella turcica, or pituitary fossa; in front of 3 is the transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 4, the side of the body with the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery ; 5, lesser wing ; x , anterior clinoid process ; 6, ethmoidal spine ; 7, cerebral surface of the great wing ; 8, upper angle of the great wing, which articulates with the parietal bone ; 9, the spinous process; 10, external, and 11, internal pterygoid plate ; 11, is placed opposite the hamular process and groove for the tendon of the tensor palati muscle; 12, optic foramen; 13, sphenoidal fissure; 14, foramen rotundum ; 15, foramen ovale ; 16, foramen spinosum ; 17, lingula, below which is placed the posterior opening of the Vidian canal. a pair of smaller horizontal processes above, called the small wings, and a pair which project downwards, thz pterygoid processes. The sphenoid is articulated with all the seven other bones of the cranium and with five of those of the face, viz., posteriorly with the occipital and with the petrous portions of the temporals, anteriorly with the ethmoid, palate, frontal, and malars, laterally with the squamous portion of the temporals, the parietals and frontal, and interiorly with the vomer and palate bones ; sometimes also with the superior maxilla. The body is hollowed out into two large cavities, the sphenoidal sinuses, separated by a thin mesial lamina, the sphenoidal septum, and opening anteriorly into the nasal fossm by two rounded apertures. The superior surface presents in the middle a deep pit, the pituitary fossa, or sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary body. In front of the fossa is an elevated portion of bone on a level with the optic foramina, the olivarySPHENOID BONE. 43 eminence, on which the optic commissure rests in a slight groove ; and in front of this is a surface on a slightly higher level, continuous with the superior surfaces of the small wings, and having a slight projection for- wards of its anterior border, which articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and is called the ethmoidal spine. Behind the pituitary fossa is a prominent lamella, the dorsum sdlce, the posterior surface of which is sloped upwards and forwards in continuation of the basilar groove of the occipital bone. The angles of this lamella project over the fossa, and are called the posterior dinoid processes. On each side of the body the surface descends obliquely to a considerably lower level than the fossa; it presents close to the margin of the fossa a superficial winding groove directed from behind forwards, marking the course of the internal carotid artery. On the outer side of the commencement of this groove, and in the angle between the body and the great wing, there projects the small tongue-like process termed lingula sphenoidalis. The posterior surface is united to the basilar process of the occipital bone, in early life by cartilage, but in adult age by continuous bony substance. The anterior surface presents in the middle line the sphenoidal crest, a thin projecting edge which descends from the ethmoidal spine, and articulates with the central plate of the ethmoid ; the oblong surface on each side of the crest presents a division into a median and a lateral part : the lateral part is irregularly excavated, and articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid and the orbital process of the palate bone ; the median part is smooth and free, entering into the formation of the roof of the nasal fossa, and presenting near its upper end the rounded orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. The sphenoidal crest terminates inte- riorly in the rostrum, a sharp vertical prominence continued back some distance on the inferior surface, and which fits in between the alae of the vomer. These last and the vaginal processes of the internal pterygoid plates cover the greater part of the inferior surface of the body. The sphenoidal turbinate or spongy bones (cornua sidicnoidalia, hones of Bcrtiri), form a considerable part of the anterior wall of the body of the sphenoid, bounding the foramen of each sinus. These bones have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards, and are in the adult usually incor- porated with the sphenoid, but as explained in the account of their development, were originally distinct. They are frequently united by earlier or stronger anchylosis with the ethmoid or palate bones, so as to come away, at least in part, with either of these in disarticulation of the skull, and thus lay open the sphenoidal sinuses. A small portion of these bones sometimes appears on the inner wall of the orbit, between the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and palate bones (Cleland in Trans, of Boy. Soc. for 1802). The small wings extend nearly horizontally outwards on a level with the fore part of the superior surface of the body. The extremity of each is slender and pointed, and comes very close to, but usually not into actual contact with, the great wing. The superior surface forms part of the anterior fossa of the base of the cranium, the inferior overhangs the sphenoidal fissure and the back of the orbit. The anterior border, thin and serrated, articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The posterior border is prominent and free, and forms the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossie, terminating internally in a smooth rounded knob, the anterior dinoid pi'oeess. In front of this is the optic foramen perforating the base of the wing.41- BONES OF TI1E HEAD. The great wings project outwards and upwards from the sides of the body. The back part of each is placed horizontally, and occupies the angle between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone ; from its pointed extremity it sends downwards a short and sharp pro- jection, the spinous process. The upper and fore part is vertical, and Fig. 37. The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figure. 17, marks the anterior opening of the Vidian canal ; 18, temporal surface of the great wing; 19, its orbital surface ; 20, sphenoidal turbinate bone ; above 20, the opening into the sphe- noidal sinus ; 21, sphenoidal crest; 22, rostrum, and above 22, the vaginal process. three-sided, lying between the cranial cavity, the orbit, and the temporal fossa. The cerebral surface of the great wing is concave, and forms part of the middle fossa of the base of the cranium. The external surface (temporo-zygomatic) is divided by a ridge, infratemporal crest, into an inferior part, which looks downwards into the zygomatic fossa, and an elongated superior part, looking outwards, which forms a part of the temporal fossa. The anterior surface looks forwards and inwards, and consists of a quadrilateral orbited portion, which forms the back part of the external wall of the orbit, and of a smaller inferior portion which overhangs the pterygoid process, looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and is perforated by the foramen rotundum. The posterior border in its median part bounds the foramen laccrum, in its lateral part articulates with the petrous, and forms with that a groove on the under aspect for the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube. The external margin articulates with the squamous, and the extremity overlaps the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. In front of this comes a triangular sur- face, the sides of which are formed by the upper margins of the cerebral, orbital, and temporal surfaces respectively, for articulation with the frontal bone. The anterior margin, between the orbital and temporal surfaces, articulates with the malar bone, and below this is a short hori- zontal free edge separating the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary surfaces. Above and internally the orbital and cerebral surfaces meet at the sharp border which forms the lower boundary of the sphenoidal fissure. The pterygoid processes project downwards and slightly forwards, from the adjacent parts of the body and the great wings. Each consistsSPHENOID DONE. 45 of two plates united in front and diverging behind, so as to enclose between them the pterygoid fossa. The external pterygoid plate, broader than the internal, lies in a plane extending backwards and outwards ; its outer surface bounds the zygomatic fossa, and is impressed by the external pterygoid muscle. The internal pterygoid plate is longer and narrower than the external, and is prolonged into the slender hook-like or fiamular process, round which in a groove plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At its base, the internal plate turns inwards beneath the body, from which its extremity remains distinct as a slightly raised edge, known as the vaginal process, which articulates with the everted margin of the vomer ; externally to this it is marked by a small groove, which contributes with the palate bone to form the pterygo-pala- tine canal. The interval between the lower ends of the pterygoid plates, pterygoid notch, is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate bone. At the base of the internal pterygoid plate is a slight depression, the navicular fossa, which gives attachment to the tensor palati muscle. Fissures and foramina.—Each lateral half of the bone presents a fissure, four foramina, and a canal. The sphenoidal fissure is the obliquely placed elongated interval between the great and the small wing, closed externally by the frontal bone ; it opens into the orbit, and transmits the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Above and to the inside of it is the opitic foramen, which is inclined outwards and forwards from the side of the olivary eminence, pierces the base of the small wing, and transmits the optic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The foramen rotundum is directed forwards through the great wing, below the sphe- noidal fissure ; it opens immediately below the level of the orbit, and transmits the superior maxillary nerve. The foramen ovale is large, placed behind and a little external to the foramen rotundum, near the posterior margin of the great wing; it is directed downwards, and transmits the inferior maxillary nerve. The foramen spinosum is a small foramen piercing the great wing, near its posterior angle, and transmits the middle meningeal vessels. The Vidian or pterygoid canal, passes through the bone horizontally from before backwards at the base of the internal pterygoid plate ; it opens anteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and posteriorly into the foramen lacerum, and transmits the Vidian nerve and vessels. Varieties.—A small tubercle is often seen on each side in front of the pituitary- fossa, at the base of the olivary eminence, and immediately internal to the last part of the carotid groove ; this is known as the middle clinoid process, and is sometimes connected by a spiculum of bone to the anterior clinoid process. Less frequently the anterior and posterior clinoid processes are similarly united. The outer pterygoid plate may be connected by a bridge of bone or of ligament with the spinous process. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosum are frequently in- complete at the posterior margin of the bone. THE ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid, or sieve-like bone, projects downwards from between the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and enters into the formation of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of a cuboid figure. It is exceedingly light for its size, being composed of very thin plates of bone forming in part irregular cells. It consists of a central vertical plate, and of two lateral masses, united at their superior extremities byBOXES OF THE nEAD. 46 the horizontal cribriform plcde. It articulates with thirteen bones : the frontal, sphenoid and vomer, the nasal, lachrymal, superior maxillary, palate, and inferior turbinate bones. The vertical plate, mesethmoid, lies in the mesial plane, and forms the upper part of the septum of the nose. Its superior margin appears in the cranial cavity, above the cribriform plate, in the form of a ridge Fig. 38.—The ethmoid bone. (A. T.) §- A, from the right side. 1, crista galli; 2, vertical plate ; 3, cribriform plate and foramina; 4, orbital plate ; 5, 5, uncinate process ; 6, su- perior, and 7, inferior turbinate process ; 8, groove forming the anterior, and 9, posterior internal orbital canal. B, from behind. 1 to 7, as in A ; 10, the lateral or cellular part of the bone ; 11, its pos- terior surface of union with the sphenoidal tur- binate and palate bones. which rises anteriorly into a thick pro- cess, the crista galli, to which the falx cerebri is attached. The anterior mar- gin of the crista galli is vertical and broad, usually presenting a groove, which completes the foramen caecum of ■the frontal bone. Below the level of the cribriform plate, the anterior margin of the vertical plate articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal and with the nasal bones. The inferior margin articulates in front, and sometimes even in its whole extent, with the septal cartilage of the nose ; and in its posterior half, in the adult, it is more or less completely joined by osseous union on one or both sides to the two plates of the vomer. The posterior margin is very thin, and is united to the crest of the sphenoid. This plate presents superiorly a number of grooves and minute canals leading from the foramina of the cribriform plate, for the transmission of the olfactory nerves. The lateral masses, ethmotiirbinals, enclose a number of spaces of irregular form, arranged in two sets, the anterior and posterior eth- moidal cells, which in the recent state are lined with prolongations of the mucous membrane of the nose. On the external aspect of each lateral mass is a thin, smooth lamina, of a quadrilateral form, the orbital plate or os planum, which closes in the ethmoidal cells, and forms a consider- able part of the inner wall of the orbit. The circumference of the orbital plate articulates in front with the lachrymal, behind with the sphenoid, above with the frontal, and below with the orbital surfaces of the superior maxillary and palate bones. In front of the orbital plate the lateral mass extends forwards, under cover of the lachrymal bone ; and from this part descends the uncinate process, a long thin lamella which curves downwards, outwards and backwards, forming part of the inner wall of the maxillary sinus, and articulating at its extremity with the inferior turbinate bone. The internal aspect of each lateral mass forms part of the external wall of the nasal fossa, and consists of a thin, uneven lamella, connectedSUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 47 above with the cribriform plate, and exhibiting a number of canals and grooves for branches of the olfactory nerve. It is divided at its back part by a channel, directed forwards and upwards from its posterior margin to about its middle. This is the superior meatus of the nose, and communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. The short, sharp margin which overhangs this channel, is the superior turbinate process or spongy bone. Below this is a slightly folded margin of greater extent, free in front and behind, the inferior turbinate process or middle spongy bone, which overhangs the middle meatus of the nose. From the front of the middle meatus a passage, the infundibulum, is prolonged upwards through the anterior ethmoidal cells, into the frontal sinus. The superior margin of the lateral mass is covered, and the cells com- pleted, by the projecting inner border of the orbital plate of the frontal bone ; two grooves are seen crossing it, which complete Avith the frontal bone the internal orbital canals. The inferior margin is formed by the rounded edge of the middle turbinate bone, and is free in the nasal fossa. The anterior extremity presents one or two open cells, which are closed by the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and the posterior extremity fits against the front of the body of the sphenoid, where it is commonly anchylosed with the sphenoidal spongy bone. The cribriform plate corresponds in size to the ethmoidal notch of the frontal bone which it occupies. On each side of the crista galli it is de- pressed into the olfactory groove Avhich lodges the olfactory bulb, and is pierced by numerous foramina, for transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerves. The foramina in the middle of the groove, are simple per- forations ; the internal and external sets are the orifices of small canals which subdivide as they descend on the vertical plate and lateral mass. At the anterior extremity is a small fissure at each side of the crista galli, close to its base, and externally to this a groove or foramen, con- nected usually by a slight furrow with the anterior internal orbital canal, which transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The upper jaw, superior maxilla, is the principal bone of the face ; it supports all the teeth of the upper range, and takes part in the formation of the hard palate, the floor of the orbit, and the floor and lateral wall of the nasal cavity. It consists of a central part or body, and four processes. The body presents an external surface, which is again sub- divided into anterior or facial, and posterior or zygomatic portions ; an internal or nasal surface, and a superior or orbital surface. The pro- cesses are, the nasal or ascending, projecting upwards from the fore part of the body, the alveolar forming the loAA'er border of the bone and containing the alveoli or sockets for the teeth, the malar on the outer aspect separating the facial and zygomatic surfaces, and the palate 2mocess projecting horizontally on the inner side. The body is farther excavated by a large sinus or antrum, which opens on the inner side into the nasal fossa. The superior maxillary bone articulates with its fellow, with the nasal, frontal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, malar, vomer, and inferior turbinate bones, and sometimes with the sphenoid. Thq facial surface is marked at the loAver part, where it is continuous with the outer surface of the alveolar process, by a series of eminences corresponding in position to the fangs of the teeth ; that of the canine si particularly prominent, and internal to this is a slight depression, theBOXES OF THE HEAD. 48 incisor or myrtiform fossa; while between it and the malar process is the deepei canine fossa. Above the canine fossa, and close below the margin ot the orbit, is the infraorbital foramen, by which the infraorbital nerve and artery issue. The inner margin of this surface is deeply excavated by the nasal notch, the sharp edge of which is produced below into the anterior nasal spine. The zygomatic surface looks into the zygomatic and spkeno-maxillary fossae; it is convex and presents about the centre one, two or more apertures of the posterior dental canals, transmitting the vessels and nen es ot that name; the lower and posterior part of this surface is prominent and rough, and is distinguished as the tuberosity. The nasal surface presents at the fore part a nearly horizontal ridge, the inferior turbinate crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinate bone; above the crest, and extending on to the base of the nasal process, Fig. 39.—Superior maxillary bone of the right side. (A. T.) r A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1 to 2, alveolar process—1 at the middle in- cisor tooth, 2 marks the tuberosity, and above it, in A, the posterior dental foramina; 3, nasal process; 4, malar process ; 5, orbital plate, below 5 is the infraorbital groove leading to the canal; 6, placed in front of the nasal notch marks the incisor crest terminating in the ante- rior nasal spine ; 7, incisor fossa ; 8, is in front of the canine fossa ; 9, infraorbital foramen ; 10, lachrymal groove; 11, antrum ; 12, inferior turbinate crest; 13, nasal crest; from 13 to 14, the incisor foramen ; 15, placed on the surface of articulation of the body with the palate bone, points to the groove of the palato-maxillary canal. These figures also exhibit a full set of the upper teeth of one side as they occur in middle life. is a smooth concave surface belonging to the middle meatus of the nose, and below the crest a much larger surface for the inferior meatus. Behind the nasal process is seen the lachrymal groove, nearly vertical, but inclined slightly backwards and outwards, about half an inch in length, and leading into the inferior meatus; the margins overhang the groove in front and behind, and the small interval left is closed by the lachrymal and inferior turbinate bones, thus completing the canal of the nasal duct. Behind the lachrymal groove is the large opening into the antrum; behind this the surface is rough for articulation with the palate bone, and traversing the lower part of this roughness is a smooth groove, passing downwards and forwards from the posterior margin, and completing with the palate bone the posterior palatine or palato-maxillary canal. The orbital surface is triangular, flat, and smooth ; anteriorly it reaches the margin of the orbit for a short distance at the root of the nasal pro- cess ; externally it is bounded by the rough surface for the malar bone.SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 49 The internal border presents, behind the nasal process, an excavation which receives the lachrymal bone, the lachrymal notch, and then a straight margin for articulation with the ethmoid and palate bones. The posterior border is smooth, rounded and free, and bounds the spheno- maxillary fissure; the infraorbital groove commences here, and leads forwards into the canal of the same name, which opens anteriorly by the infraorbital foramen. From the infraorbital is given off the anterior dented canal, which runs down in the substance of the facial portion of the bone, and conveys the anterior dental vessels and nerves. The nasal process, slender and tapering, has an external surface, smooth and continuous with the facial surface of the body, and an internal surface, irregular, fitting against the anterior extremity of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, and completing the foremost cells of that bone. The anterior border is rough, often grooved, for articulation with the nasal bone, and its summit is serrated for articulation with the frontal. Posteriorly it presents a continuation of the lachrymal groove already seen on the nasal surface of the body, and which here lodges the lachry- mal sac ; the groove is bounded internally by a sharp linear edge, which articulates with the lachrymal bone, and externally by a smooth border which forms part of the orbital margin. The alveolar border or process, thick and arched, is hollowed out into sockets or alveoli, corresponding in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth, which are fixed in them. The malar process is thick and triangular; the anterior and posterior surfaces are continuous with the facial and zygomatic surfaces of the body ; the superior is rough and grooved to support the malar bone. The inferior border runs down on the outer surface of the body in the form of a thick buttress opposite the first molar tooth. The palate process or plate, along with that of the opposite side, forms about three-fourths of the hard palate. Its superior surface is smooth, and concave from side to side; its inferior surface is vaulted and rough, and is marked laterally with groves for nerves and vessels, which reach the palate through the posterior palatine canal. Its posterior extremity falls short of that of the alveolar arch and body of the bone, and articulates with the horizontal plate of the palate bone, which completes the hard palate. The mesial border rises into a serrated vertical ridge, which, with its fellow, constitutes the nasal crest—a grooved elevation which receives the lower margin of the vomer; at the fore part this border rises sud- denly to a considerable height, and the more elevated portion may be distinguished as the incisor crest (Henle) ; forwards this is prolonged into the anterior nasal spine, on its upper border rests the septal cartilage of the nose, and into the angle behind it the truncated anterior extremity of the vomer fits. Close by the side of the incisor crest on the upper surface of the palate plate is seen a foramen which is directed downwards to the mouth, but in the lower half becomes converted into a wider groove by deficiency of the inner wall. Thus, when the two bones are placed in apposition, one orifice of considerable size is formed on the palatal aspect which divides above into right and left branches leading to the corresponding nasal fossae; the lower aperture is the anterior 'palatine canal, the lateral branches are the incisor foramina (or canals), or foramina of Stenson. Farther, in the middle line are two other smaller foramina also opening into the anterior palatine canal, one before, the other behind, these are the foramina of Scarpa. VOL. I. EBONES OF THE HEAD. 50 The terms incisor foramen and anterior palatine canal are often used converfcibly and vaguely to express what has been above defined as the anterior palatine canal, or its inferior opening. According to the definitions here given, incisor foramen Fig. 40.—Front part of the palate and ALVEOLAR ARCH OF AN ADULT. § Showing the lower opening of the anterior palatine canal. 1, 2, are placed on the palate plates of the superior maxillary bones; 4, anterior palatine canal, in which is seen a division into four openings—the two lateral, with lines pointing to them from 1 and 2, are the incisor foramina ; the anterior and posterior, indicated by 3 and 4, are the foramina of Scarpa. Fig. 40. has the same meaning in human as in comparative anatomy, while anterior palatine canal is restricted to an appearance which presents itself only in man and a few animals. The lamina which bounds the incisor foramen on the inner side corresponds to the mesial palatine process of the premaxillary bone in other animals, e.g. the carnivora ; while the incisor foramina are those which are seen largely developed in those animals, and are the remains of a primitive com- munication between the nose and mouth. The foramina of Scarpa lie in the suture between the lamin® referred to. They transmit the naso-palatine nerves ; the nerve of the right side occupying, according to Scarpa, the posterior one, which is usually the larger, and that of the left side, the anterior; but they are very inconstant. (Scarpa, Annot. Anatom., lib. ii. cap. 5.) The maxillary sinus or antrum of Highmore has an irregularly pyramidal form. The walls are thin, the sides correspond to the facial, zygomatic and orbital surfaces of the body, the base to the nasal surface, and the apex extends into the malar process. The large aperture is closed to a considerable extent by the uncinate process of the ethmoid, the palate and inferior turbinate bones, and in the fresh state is reduced by the mucous membrane to a small orifice through which it communicates with the middle meatus of the nose. Its extent inferiorly generally corresponds with that of the molar teeth, and the outer alveoli of one or more of these form prominences in its floor, THE PALATE BONE. The palate bone forms the back part of the hard palate and the lateral wall of the nose between the superior maxillary bone and the internal pterygoid plate. It consists of a horizontal and a vertical plate united at a right angle, and of three processes, viz., the pyramidal process, extending outwards and backwards from the junction of the horizontal and vertical 'plates, and the orbital and sphenoidal processes, surmounting the vertical plate. The palate bone articulates with its fellow, and with the superior maxillary, ethmoid, sphenoid, vomer, and the inferior turbinate bone. The horizontal or palate plate presents a superior surface, concave and smooth, forming the back part of the floor of the nasal fossa ; and an inferior surface, completing the vault of the hard palate and marked near its posterior border by a transverse ridge to which some tendinous fibres of the tensor palati muscle are attached. The anterior border articulates with the palate process of the superior maxilla; the posterior is free, concave and sharp, giving attachment to the soft palate, and produced at its inner end into a sharp point, which with that of the other sidePALATE BONE. 51 Fig. 41. Fig. 41.—The palate bone op the eight side. forms the posterior nasal ox palatine spine; internally it articulates with its- fellow by a thick serrated border, forming a continuation of the nasal crest of the superior maxilla, and also supporting the vomer; externally, at its junction with the vertical plate it is grooved by the extremity of the posterior palatine canal. The vertical plate is very thin. Its internal or nasal surface is divided into two parts, corresponding to the middle and inferior meatuses of the nose, by a nearly horizontal ridge, inferior turbinate crest, which articulates with the inferior turbinate bone, and at the upper end of the surface, (A. T.) § A, from tlie outside and behind ; B, from the inside. 1, upper surface of the palate plate ; 2, its posterior curved border ; 3, posterior nasal spine ; 4, the rough surface of adjacent articulation rising superiorly into the nasal crest; 5, 5, in B, vertical plate ; 6, inferior turbi- nate crest; 7, sphenoidal process ; 8, in B, orbital process, showing a cellular cavity ; 8', in A, its orbital surface ; 9, spheno-palatine notch ; 10, 11, 12, pyramidal process— 10, rough surface of union with the external pterygoid plate, 11, with the internal plate, and 12, the inter- mediate smooth surface ; 13, 13, groove of the posterior palatine canal., crossing the roots of the two processes, is another less marked ridge, the superior turbinate or ethmoidal crest, which articulates with the middle turbinate bone. The external surface presents, nearer to the posterior border, a narrow smooth surface which forms the inner wall of the pterygo-maxillary fissure, and leads down to a deep groove forming with the superior maxillary bone the posterior palatine canal for the transmission of the large palatine nerve and vessels; in front of the groove the surface is applied against the superior maxillary bone, and overlaps the orifice of the antrum by a thin tongue-shaped projection, the maxillary process, which may attain a considerable size ; behind the groove it articulates inferiorly with the hinder border of the maxilla, superiorly with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The pyramidal process or tuberosity fits into the cleft between the pterygoid plates. It presents posteriorly a triangular surface which is smooth and grooved, and completes the pterygoid fossa ; on its sides it is rough for articulation with the borders of the pterygoid plates. Inferiorly, close to its connection with the horizontal plate, are the orifices of the posterior and external small palatine canals which transmit the smaller palatine nerves ; the external is the smaller and less constant. The orbital process surmounts the anterior margin of the vertical plate. It is somewhat pyramidal in shape, and has five surfaces, two of which, the superior and external, are free, and the rest articulated. The superior surface forms the posterior angle of the floor of the orbit, the external looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa, the anterior articulates with the maxillary, tfre internal with the ethmoid, and the posterior, which is small and only exists towards the extremity of the process.BONES OF THE HEAD. 52 articulates with the sphenoid. The process is generally hollow, and the cavity completes one of the posterior ethmoidal cells, or it may open behind into the sphenoidal sinus. The orbital surface is frequently found enlarged from the union with the palate bone of a portion of bone ossifying from a separate centre, usually united with the ethmoid or sphenoid, and already described with the sphenoidal spongy bone (p. 43). The sphenoidal 'process curves upwards, inwards, and backwards from the posterior part of the vertical plate. Its superior or external surface is in contact with the body of the sphenoid and the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and is grooved for the completion of the pterygo-palatine canal; its internal or under surface looks to the posterior nares ; and at its base a third surface looks forwards and outwards into the spheno- maxillary fossa. Its inner extremity is in contact with the ala of the vomer. The two processes are separated by the deep sjoheno-palatine notch, which is closed above by the body of the sphenoid, and thus converted into the foramen of the same name. It leads from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the nasal cavity, and transmits the internal nerves from Meckel’s ganglion and the nasal branch of the internal maxillary artery. THE VOMER. The vomer is a thin mesial bone, irregularly quadrilateral, and placed vertically between the nasal fossae. It articulates with the sphenoid, ethmoid, palate, and superior maxillary bones, and with the septal cartilage of the nose. Fig. 42. Fig. 42.—The vomer. (A. T.) § A, from the right side ; B, from above. 1, 1, the aloe on each side of the hollow which receives the rostmm of the sphenoid ; 2, anterior border, grooved to receive the septal cartilage of the nose, and prolonged at x into a process which rests upon the incisor crest; 3, posterior border ; 4, inferior border. The surfaces are smooth and in the recent state covered by mucous membrane : each is traversed by a faint groove running downwards and forwards, and conducting the naso-palatine nerve and vessels to the anterior palatine canal. The superior border is by far the thickest part of the bone, and is divided into two spreading alee, which fit under the body of the sphenoid, receiving the rostrum into the groove between them; the edge of each ala meets the vaginal process of the sphenoid and the sphe- noidal process of the palate bone. The anterior border, sloping downwards and forwards, is grooved for the septal cartilage, and in the upper half is united by anchylosis on one or both sides with the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid. The anterior extremity of the vomer forms a short vertical edge which fits in behind the incisor crest of the maxillaries, and from the upper end of which a process projects forwards in the groove of theMALAR BONE. 53 crest, while from its lower end a point projects downwards between the incisor foramina. The inferior border articulates with the nasal crest of the maxillary and palate bones. The posterior border, thin, smooth, and unattached, separates the posterior nares. THE MALAR BONE. The malar bone forms the most prominent part of the cheek, and separates the orbit from the temporal fossa. It is quadrangular in shape, with the angles directed vertically and horizontally. The outer surface is convex and presents the orifice of the malar canal; the inner surface is concave and looks into the temporal and zygomatic fossae. The upper angle, frontal process, is the most prominent, and is serrated at the extremity for articulation with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The border behind this, temporal, is sigmoid and continuous with the upper edge of the zygoma. The posterior angle, temporal process, is serrated for articulation with the extremity of the zygoma, and the postero-inferior border, masseteric, thick and rough, completes the lower edge of the cygomatic arch. The antero-inferior border, maxillary, together with a rough triangular part of the inner surface, articulates with the malar process of the superior maxilla. The remaining border, orbital, is strongly excavated, smooth and rounded, and forms a great part of the orbital margin; from this the orbital process projects backwards and inwards, a triangular, curved plate, forming the fore part of the outer wall of the orbit and articulating by Fig. 43.—Right malar bone. (A. T.) § Fig. 43. A, from the outside ; B, from the inside. 1, frontal process ; 2, temporal process; 3, anterior angle ; 4, inferior angle ; from 1 to 2, temporal border; from 1 to 3, orbital border ; from 1 to 8, edge of articu- lation with the frontal and sphenoid bones ; at 8, the notch terminating the spheno-maxillary fissure ; from 2 to 4, the masseteric border ; between 8, 3, and 4, the triangular serrated surface for articulation with the supjerior maxillary bone ; 5, placed below external orifice of malar canal; 6, internal surface ; 7, orbital surface. its sharp edge with the great wing of the sphenoid ; between the sphenoidal and maxil- lary articulations there is frequently a small free margin which closes the anterior extre- mity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. On the orbital surface of this process are seen two grooves leading to small canals, the temporal, opening on the temporal surface, and the malar leading to the facial surface of the bone; they transmit the two divisions of the temporo-malar branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Varieties. The malar bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture into an upper larger and a lower smaller part. The small canals are subject to great variation; either may be double, or one may fail entirely. In the numerous cases in which the malar bone does not enter into the formation of the spheno- maxillary fissure, it is excluded either by the articulation of the great wing of the sphenoid with the superior maxilla, or by a small "Wormian bone.54 is placed at the lower end of the groove for the nasal Fig. 44. Fig. 44.—Right nasal bone. (A. T.) § BONES OP THE HEAD. THE NASAL BONE. The nasal bones form the bridge of the nose. They are thick and narrow above, but gradually become wider and thinner below. The superior border of each is serrated, and articulates with the frontal bone; the inferior supports the lateral nasal cartilage; the external border, the longest, articulates with the ascending process of the superior A, from the front ; B, from behind. 1, upper or frontal border; 2, internal border ; 3, ex- ternal or maxillary border ; 4, lower free border ; in B, 4 nerve. maxillary bone; and the internal with its fellow, with the nasal spine of the frontal bone and with the perpendicular plate of the eth- moid. The anterior surface, concave from above down at its upper part, convex in the rest of its extent, presents a minute vascular foramen; the posterior or nasal surface is marked by a groove for the passage of the nasal nerve. THE LACHRYMAL BONE. The lachrymal hone, or os unguis, is a thin scale of bone placed at the anterior and inner part of the orbit. It articulates superiorly with the frontal bone, posteriorly with the orbital plate of the ethmoid, and anteriorly with the nasal process of the superior maxilla. The external surface is divided by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into two parts: the anterior is grooved, lachrymal groove, for the Fig. 45. 45_—Right lachrymal bone, from the outside. (A. T.) § §1, upper or frontal border ; 2, orbital surface ; 3, lachrymal groove ; 4, the process which meets the inferior turbinate bone. lachrymal sac, and this part is prolonged interiorly beyond the orbit in the form of a pointed process which 4 completes the canal of the nasal duct on the inner side and articulates with the inferior turbinate bone; the posterior part, broader, is flat, continuous with the orbital surface of the ethmoid, and is produced below into a hook-like projection, hamular process, which curves forwards in the lachrymal notch of the superior maxilla and bounds the orifice of the nasal duct on the outer side. The internal surface superiorly completes some anterior ethmoidal cells, and interiorly looks into the middle meatus of the nose. THE INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. The inferior turbinate or spongy bone, maxilloturhinal, is a slender lamina, attached by the upper margin along the lateral wall of the nose, and projecting into the nasal cavity, so as to divide the middle from the inferior meatus. It is slightly convoluted, its convexity looking inwards, and its lower margin is free, slightly thickened and rolled upon itself. The attached margin articulates anteriorly with the55 INFERIOR TURBINATE BONE. inferior turbinate crest of the superior maxillary bone, then ascends abruptly to form the lachrymal process and complete the lachrymal canal and articulate with the lachrymal bone; behind this it is folded downwards in the maxillary process, forming part of the inner wall of Fig. 46.—The inferior turbinate bone op THE RIGHT SIDE. (A. T.) § A, from tlie outside ; B, from the inside. 1, anterior angle ; 2, posterior angle ; 1, 3, 2, inferior free border ; 4, internal convex surface ; 5, ethmoidal process ; 6, lachrymal process; 7, outer concave surface ; 8, maxillary process. the antrum below the entrance into that cavity; above and behind this, it presents a small projection which articulates with the uncinate process of the ethmoid, ethmoidal process, and posteriorly it is attached to the inferior turbinate crest of the palate bone. The posterior extremity is elongated, sharp and pointed; the anterior flat- tened and obtuse. This bone is marked by horizontal grooves and canals for vessels and nerves, but not, as the turbinal parts of the ethmoid are, with vertical grooves for the olfactory nerve. Fig. 46. THE INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The lower jaw, inferior maxilla, mandible, is the thickest and strongest bone of the face, and moves on the rest of the skull by means of a pair of condyles articulating with the glenoid fossae of the temporal bones. It has the shape of an inverted arch bent forwards upon itself. Fig. 47.—The inferior max- illary BONE, FROM THE RIGHT SIDE AND ABOVE. (A. T.) \ 1, body; 2, symphysis ; 3, ramus ; 4, angle, near it the oblique ridges marked by the attachment of the masseter muscle ; 5, coronoid process ; 6, condyle; 7, placed in the sig- moid notch, points to the front of the neck ; 8, mental foramen ; 9, external oblique line ; 10, in- ferior dental foramen and mylo- hyoid groove of the left side. This figure represents a full set of the teeth of the lower jaw in middle life. (See also fig. 54 for view of the inner surface of the lower jaw.) Fig. 47. and consists of a middle larger horizontal part—the body, and of two rami or ascending branches. The body is marked in the middle line by a vertical ridge, indicating the place of union of the originally separate lateral parts, and thenceBONES OF THE HEAD. 56 named the symphysis; this is continued below into the triangular elevation, menial prominence, forming the chin, a feature peculiar to the human skull. The superior or alveolar border is hollowed out into sockets for the teeth. The inferior border or base is thick and rounded, and projects beyond the superior. On the outer surface, on each side of the symphysis, below the incisor teeth, is a shallow depression, the incisor fossa, and more externally is the mental foramen, placed midway between the upper and lower borders and under the interval between the two bicuspid teeth ; it transmits the mental nerve and vessels. Close below the foramen is the external oblique line, running from the mental prominence upwards and backwards to the anterior margin of the ramus. The deep surface is marked, on each tide of the symphysis, along the inferior margin, by an oval depression, indicating the anterior attachment of the digastric muscle, and above this by two pairs of prominent tubercles, mental spines, placed close together, giving attachment, the upper pair to the genio-glossi, and the lower to the genio-liyoid muscles. An oblique prominent line, the mylo-hyoid ridge, leading from beneath the mental spines, upwards and backwards to the ramus, gives attachment to the mylo-hyoid muscle. Above this line is a smooth depression for the sublingual gland, and more posteriorly beneath it another for the submaxillary gland. The ramus is thinner than the body of the bone. Its posterior border in meeting the line of the base forms the angle of the jaw. The external surface is flat and uneven, and towards the angle stronger ridges mark the attachment of tendinous bundles of the masseter muscle. The internal surface presents at its middle the inferior dented foramen, leading into the dented canal, which lodges the dental nerve and vessels. Passing down from the sharp internal margin of this foramen is the mylo-hyoid groove (occasionally a canal for a short space) marking the passage of the mylo-hyoid nerve with an accompanying artery and vein. Behind this, inside the angle, is a marked roughness for the internal pterygoid muscle. The ramus is surmounted by two projections, the condyle and the coro- noid process, which are separated by a deep excavation, the sigmoid notch. The condyle is continued upwards from the posterior part of the ramus. It is supported by a constricted portion, the necJc, which presents anteriorly a depression, into which the external pterygoid muscle is inserted. The condyle is a transversely elongated convex articular process, whose major axis is directed obliquely, so that if prolonged it would meet with that of its fellow near the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. The coronoidprocess is continued vertically upwards in front, from the anterior margin of the ramus. It is triangular in shape, and gives attachment by its margin and inner aspect to the temporal muscle. At its base, in front, is a groove, in which the lower parts of the temporal and buccinator muscles are attached. The angle of the jaw is in the adult usually about 120°; in infancy it is as great as 140° or more; in strongly developed jaws it may be diminished to 110° or less; and in old and toothless jaws it is increased. These changes are connected with a variety of circumstances, among which may be noticed,—the development of the temporary and permanent teeth, the absorption of the alveolar arch after the loss of the teeth in advanced age, the elongation of the face and upper jaw towards adult life, and the varying state of development of the masseter muscles at different periods.57 HYOID BONE. Fig. 48. Fig. 48.—The htoid bone, from before. § THE HYOID BONE. The hyoid bone, or os lingua, is situated at the base of the tongue, and may be felt between the chin and the thyroid cartilage. It is shaped like the letter u, and consists of a body and two pairs of cornua. It is suspended from the tips of the styloid processes of the temporal bones by a pair of slender bands, the stylo-hyoid ligaments, which in most animals form distinct bones. Though belonging rather to the neck than to the cranium or face, it may be suitably considered in this place. 1, the prominent part of the body ; 2, the great cornu ; 3, the small cornu. The locly, or central piece, basihyal, is com- pressed from before backwards, and lies in a plane directed downwards and forwards. Its anterior surface is convex, and marked in the middle by a vertical ridge, on each side of which are depressions for the attachment of muscles. Its posterior surface is concave, and is directed towards the epiglottis. The great cornua, thyroliyals, project backwards from the sides of the body ; they are compressed from above down and end in rounded extremities. The small cornua, or cornicula, ceratohyals, short and conical, project upwards and backwards from the place of junction of the body with the great cornua, and give attachment at their extremities to the stylo- hyoid ligaments. They are commonly in part, and not unfrequently ' entirely, cartilaginous. The great cornua are connected to the body by synchondrosis, and after middle life by bony union; the small cornua by a synovial articulation which is seldom anchylosed. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. THE SUTURES. With the exception of the lower jaw, which is moveably articulated with the temporal bone, the bones of the skull are closely fitted together by more or less uneven edges or surfaces, there being interposed only a small quantity of fibrous tissue, continuous with the periosteum ; and to the lines of articulation the name suture is given. At the base of the cranium, however, in young subjects, the basilar process of the occipital is connected to the sphenoid, and the jugular process to the petrous, by a thin layer of cartilage ; the articulation is therefore synchondrosis, and when adult age is reached it becomes converted into bony union. The sutures are best named from the bones between which they lie, as, occipito-parietal, occipito-mastoid, fronto-ethmoidal, &c. Those around the parietal bones are the longest and most regular, and to these special names have been applied ; thus, above, between the two parietal bones is the sagittal or interparietal suture; posteriorly is the deeply serrated lambdoid or occipito-parietal suture; anteriorly is the coronal or fronto- parietal suture, most markedly serrated in the middle part of each lateral half, less so above where the frontal bone overlaps the parietal, and quite58 BONES OF THE HEAD. simple at the leaver end where the parietal overlaps the frontal; inferiorly is the temporo-'parietal suture consisting of two parts, the squamous suture arched in form, in which the squamous part of the temporal overlaps the parietal, and theparieto-mastoid, short and serrated ; while at the antero- inferior angle is the short spheno-parietal suture, about half an inch in length, absent only in rare cases when the frontal and temporal bones come into contact. The cranial sutures are conveniently arranged by Turner in three groups, a median longitudinal, a lateral longitudinal and a vertical transverse. The first consists of the sagittal suture, which is continued in the infant, and frequently in the adult, by the frontal suture; in the lateral longitudinal are included on each side, the fronto-nasal, fronto-maxillary, fronto-lachrymal, fronto-ethmoidal, fronto-malar, fronto-sphenoidal, spheno-parietal, squamous, and parieto-mastoid sutures; the third comprises the coronal and spheno-squamous, the lambdoid and occipito-mastoid sutures, and into this group also would fall the transverse articu- lations in the centre of the base, between the ethmoid, sphenoid and occipital. After adult life is reached the bones of the skull evince a disposition to unite and many of the sutures thereby become closed, but the period at which this commences, as also the order in which it proceeds, are subject to great variations and afford very little assistance in determining the precise age of a skull. The process commences generally between thirty and forty years of age; the union takes place first on the inner surface, and frequently the large sutures are quite obliterated internally whilst they are perfectly distinct on the external surface. The earliest points to close are commonly the part of the sagittal suture between the parietal foramina, and the lower ends of the coronal suture; the more (len- tated parts of these sutures and the lambdoid follow later. The squamous is very late in closing, and it is noteworthy that when the frontal suture fails to unite at the usual time it may remain unchanged even to very advanced age. Wormian bones. Ossa triquetra, ossa suturarvm. These are irregular ossifi- cations, found in many skulls, interposed between the cranial bones; seldom in the face. They are of irregular form, with margins adapted to the character of the sutures in which they are situated; usually of small size, but may exceed an inch in diameter. Their most frequent seat is in the occipito-parietal suture, where they sometimes occur in great numbers, more or less symmetrically arranged: in some cases one or several bones of considerable size occupy the place of the superior part of the occipital, more rarely of the antero-superior angles of the parietal bones: a scale-like ossification is often seen between the antero-inferior angle of the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid (cqrptcric hone, Flower). They are much less frequent in the other sutures. EXTERNAL SURFACE OF THE SKULL.. The external surface of the skull may be conveniently divided into superior, inferior, anterior, and lateral regions. The superior region, extending from the supraorbital ridges in front to the superior curved line of the occipital bone behind, and bounded laterally by the temporal lines, is smooth and convex, covered only by the integument and by the muscular fibres and aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle. It is of an oval form, broader in the parietal than the frontal region, flattened in front, and projecting somewhat in the middle behind. There is also a slight projection from the general curve at each of the frontal and parietal eminences. The anterior region of the skull, below the forehead, presents the openings of the orbits, hounded by the frontal, malar, and superior maxillary bones; and between the orbits, the bridge of the nose, formed by the nasal bones and ascending processes of the superior maxillaries.MALE SKULL AT ABOUT EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. THE ORBITS. Fig. 49. 59 Below the nasal bones is the anterior nasal aperture, of an inverted heart shape: its thin margin gives attachment to the nasal cartilages, and projects forwards in the middle line below as the anterior nasal spine. Below the nasal aperture are the incisor fossoe of the upper jaw; below the orbits are the canine fossae; and external to the canine fossae are the prominences of the cheeks, formed by the anterior inferior parts of the malar bones. The lower jaw completes the skeleton of the face. The foramina in this region, on each side, are the supraorbital foramen or notch in the superior margin of the orbit, the infraorbital foramen below the inferior margin of the orbit, the mental foramen of the lower jaw, and the small malar canal of the malar bone. Fig. 49.—Front view of TWENTY YEARS. (A. T.) J 1, frontal eminence ; 2, glabella, between the super- ciliary ridges, and above the transverse suture of union with the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; 3, orbital arch near the supraorbital notch ; 4, orbital surface of the great wing of the sphe- noid, between the sphenoidal and the spheno-maxillary fissures; 5, anterior nasal aperture, within which are seen in shadow the vomer and the turbinate bones ; 6, superior maxillary bone at the canine fossa—above the figure is the infraorbital foramen ; 7, incisor fossa ; 8, malar bone ; 9, symphy- sis of lower jaw; 10, men- tal foramen; 11, vertex, near the coronal suture ; 12, temporal fossa; 13, zygoma; 14, mastoid process; 15, angle of the jaw; 16, mental prominence. In this skull there are fourteen teeth in each jaw, the wisdom teeth not having yet appeared. The orbits are pyramidal fossae, irregularly quadrilateral, with their bases directed forwards and slightly outwards, their inner walls being nearly parallel, and their outer walls diverging so as to be nearly at right angles to each other. The roof of each orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal and the small wing of the sphenoid; the floor by the malar and superior maxillary bones, and by the small orbital surface of the palate bone at the back part; the inner wall by the nasal process of the superior maxilla, the lachrymal, the ethmoid and body of the sphenoid; and the outer wall by the orbital surfaces of the malar bone and great wing of the sphenoid. The sphenoidal fissure (foramen lacerum orbitale) at its inner extremity occupies the apex of the orbit, while its outer and60 BONES OF THE HEAD. narrower part lies between the roof and the external wall. The optic foramen is internal and superior to the sphenoidal fissure. In the angle between the external wall and the floor is the spheno-maxillary fissure, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, superior maxillary, and malar bones, and leading into the spheno-maxillary fossa at its back part, and the zygomatic fossa at its fore part. Passing forwards from the margin of the spheno-maxillary fissure is the commencement of the infraorbital canal, grooving the posterior part of the floor of the orbit. On the inner wall in front is the lachrymal groove, formed by the superior maxillary and lachrymal bones, and leading into the nasal duct; farther back, between the ethmoid and frontal bones, are the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals: on the roof at its anterior margin, is the supra- orbital foramen or notch ; within the external angular process is the fossa for the lachrymal gland; and in the outer wall are the temporal canal of the malar bone and one or two other minute foramina. Fig. 50. Fig. 50.—Lateral view op tiie skull represented in figure 49. (A. T.) $ 1, frontal bone; 2, parietal bone at the upper temporal line; x x , coronal suture; 3, on the occipital bone at the lower end of the lambdoid suture, near its meeting with the occipito-inastoid and parieto-mastoid sutures ; 3', external occipital protuberance ; 4, great wing of sphenoid; 5, squamous part of temporal; 6, the same at the root of the zygoma, immediately over the external auditory meatus ; 7, mastoid portion of temporal, in front of which is the mastoid process ; 8, left condyle of the occipital bone ; 9, anterior nasal aperture ; 10, on the lachrymal bone in the inner wall of the orbit; 11, malar bone, near its junction with the zygoma ; 12, superior maxillary boDe behind the canine fossa ; 13, ramus of the lower jaw ; 14, body of the lower jaw, near the mental foramen.EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. Cl The lateral region of the skull presents in succession from behind forwards the mastoid process, the external auditory meatus, the glenoid fossa, with the condyle of the lower jaw, the zygomatic arch, formed by the zygomatic process of the temporal bone and the posterior part of the malar, and internal to this the coronoid process of the lower jaw. Above the zygomatic arch is the temporal fossa, below is the zygomatic fossa, the two being separated by the infratemporal crest on the great wing of the sphenoid. The temporal fossa is occupied by the temporal muscle, and the squamous part of the temporal, the parietal, frontal, sphenoid and malar bones take part in its formation. Fig. 51. Fig. 51.—Section op male skull op middle age, in two planes, one passing VERTICALLY THROUGH THE LEFT ORBIT, THE OTHER OBLIQUELY FROM BEHIND THE ORBIT, BACKWARDS AND OUTWARDS, THROUGH THE TYMPANUM AND MASTOID PRO- CESS. (A. T.) \ 1, section of tlie frontal tone in the roof of the orbit ; 2, left nasal hone ; 3, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; 4, left lachrymal hone, and in front the lachrymal groove; 5, placed on the orbital plate of the ethmoid, below the anterior internal orbital canal ; 6, placed on the body of the sphenoid, between the optic foramen and the posterior internal orbital canal, and in front of the sphenoidal fissure; 7, orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone inside the infraorbital groove ; 8, on the orbital plate of the palate bone, in front of and above the spheno-palatine foramen and spheno- maxillary fossa ; 9, upper extremity of the posterior palatine canal; 10, cranial opening of the foramen rotundum—its anterior opening is seen in the spheno-maxillary fossa ; 11, section, of the great wing of the sphenoid bone outside the foramen ovale, aDd in the fossa near it the anterior opening of the Vidian canal ; 12, placed between tbe spinous and oval foramina ; 13, on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, near the apex. In front of the figure is seen the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery, and below the figure and externally the hiatus Fallopii; 14, the pituitary fossa, with the anterior and posterior clinoid processes ; 15, section of the petrous bone above the labyrinth ; two of the semi- circular canals are opened ; immediately below is the tympanum. The inner wall is seen with the promontory, fenestra ovalis and pyramid in shadow ; forwards near x, the tympanic opening of the Eustachian tube, and backwards, below 16, the opening into the mastoid cells; 17, left styloid process—that of the right side is seen in perspective below the skull, close by the occipital condyle ; 18, tuberosity of the superior maxilla ; 19, below the canine fossa ; 20, nasal notch and anterior nasal spine ; 21, inner wall of the antrum seen by the removal of its outer wall ; above the figure is the maxillary process of the inferior turbinate bone, and over that an irregular fissure, Tiz., the opening of the antrum into the middle meatus of the nose.BONES OF THE HEAD. 62 The temporal fossa is bounded above by the temporal crest of the frontal bone and the temporal line of the parietal. It has been pointed out by Ilyrtl that the latter line is double, and the two lines can usually be traced readily enough ' on the side of the skull. The inferior line turns down posteriorly to become continuous with the posterior root of the zygoma on the temporal bone, it marks the limit of the temporal muscle, and is the boundary of the temporal fossa; the upper line, a variable distance above this, gives attachment to the temporal fascia, and is the line of division between the upper and lateral surfaces of the skull. The zygomatic fossa is an irregular hollow in part covered by the ramus of the lower jaw ; its wall is formed internally by the external pterygoid plate ; superiorly by the lower part of the great wing of the sphenoid, in which are seen the foramen ovale and foramen spinosum, and by a small part of the squamous of the temporal; and anteriorly by the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla, presenting the orifices of the posterior dental canals. Interiorly the external pterygoid plate comes nearly into contact with the superior maxillary bone, but is almost always separated from it by a thin portion of the pyramidal process of the palate bone ; superiorly, it is divided from it by t hepterygo-maxillary fissure, a vertical slit which leads above into the spheno-maxillary fossa, but is closed internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone. At the upper part of the zygomatic fossa the horizontal spheno-maxillary fissure leads into the orbit. The splicno-maxillary fossa is the space which lies in the angle between the pterygo-maxillary and the spheno-maxillary fissures. It is bounded posteriorly by the pterygoid process and lower part of the anterior surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone, anteriorly by the superior maxillary bone, and internally by the vertical plate of the palate bone. Into this narrow space five foramina open, viz., on the posterior wall, the foramen rotundum, the Yidian canal, and, between the sphenoidal pro- cess of the palate bone and the root of the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-palatme canal; on the inner wall, the spheno-palatine foramen formed by the palate bone and the sphenoid, and opening into the nasal cavity; and interiorly, the posterior palatine canal, which leads down to the palate between the palate and superior maxillary bones. The external base of the skull, excluding the lower jaw, is divisible into three parts, anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior division consists of the palate and the alveolar arch. It is traversed longitudinally by a mesial suture, and transversely by that between the maxillary and palate bones. Anteriorly, in the middle line, is the anterior palatine canal, with the four smaller foramina contained within it; posteriorly, on each side, at the base of the alveolar arch, is the posterior palatine canal, and externally and posteriorly to that, the posterior and external small palatine canals. The palate is surrounded in front and on the sides by the alveolar arch bearing the teeth of the upper jaw. The middle division extends back to the front of the foramen magnum. Its central portion has been called the guttural fossa. In the middle line is the basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front of that the body of the sphenoid, covered anteriorly by the extremity of the vomer. On each side, the petrous portion of the temporal bone reaches as far forwards as the extremity of the basilar process ; and between the petrous and squamous portions is the back part of the great wing of theBASE OF THE SKULL. Fig. 52.—External base 63 Fig. 52. sphenoid bone. Between this division of the base of the skull and the palate are the posterior nares, separated by the vomer, and bounded above by the body of the sphenoid bone, below by the horizontal plates of the palate bones, and laterally by the internal pterygoid plates. On each side of the posterior nares is the pterygoid fossa, and a line from the external pterygoid. plate to the spine of the sphenoid forms the division between this region and the zygomatic fossa. Immediately behind or internal to this line is the groove for the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, formed by the margins of the great wing of the sphenoid and the petrous, and leading to the osseous part of the tube in the temporal bone. Between the apex of the petrous, the basilar process and the sphenoid is the foramen lacerum : in a line proceeding back- wards and outwards from this are the free surface of the petrous, the lower orifice of the carotid canal, the vaginal and styloid processes, and 1, palate plate of tlie superior maxillary bone ; 2, palate plate of the palate bone ; 3, anterior palatine canal ; 4, is placed outside the posterior palatine canal, inside the tuberosity of the superior maxilla, and in front of the smaller posterior palatine canals ; 5, inner surface of the external pterygoid plate; 6, is placed within the posterior opening of the right nasal fossa on the internal pterygoid plate ; 7, vomer ; x , posterior opening of the pterygo- palatine canal in front of the foramen lacerum; 8, spheno-maxillary fis- sure leading into the orbit ; 9, foramen spino- sum ; 10, foramen ovale; 11, placed on the apex of the petrous bone, between the foramen lacerum and the inferior opening of the carotid canal; 12, jugular foramen ; 13, articular eminence of the temporal bone ; 14, external audi- tory meatus ; 15, glenoid fossa in front of the fissure of Glaser ; 16, tympanic plate or posterior part of the glenoid fossa, close to the styloid process, behind which is seen the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 17, mastoid process, and to its inside the digastric and occipital grooves ; 18, basilar process of the occipital bone, and in front the mark of the still incomplete union with the body of the sphenoid bone ; 19, condyle of the occipital bone; 20, is placed in the foramen magnum, and points to the inner opening of the anterior condylar foramen; 21, posterior condylar foramen ; 22, jugular process of the occipital bone ; 23, external occipital crest running down from the protuberance; 24, superior curved line of the occipital bone ; 25, 26, inferior curved line. OF THE SKULL SHOWN IN FIGURE 49. (A. T.) J64 BONES OF THE HEAD. the stylo-mastoid foramen ; whilst internal to these are the jugular and anterior condylar foramina. The posterior division presents on each side of the foramen magnum, from within outwards, the occipital condyle, the rough surface for the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, the occipital groove of the temporal bone, the digastric fossa, and the mastoid process. Behind the foramen mag- num is the tabular part of the occipital bone, with its ridges and muscular impressions. THE INTERIOR OF THE CRANIUM. The walls of the cranium consist of two layers of compact bony sub- stance, the outer and inner tables, and an intervening cancellated substance, called diploe. The inner or vitreous table, has a smooth, close-grained, shining appearance, is hard and brittle, and presents irregular digitate impressions corresponding to the convolutions of the brain. The thinnest portions of the cranial wall are the cribriform plate of the etlnnoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, in both Fig. 53. — Internal BASE OP THE SKULL. (A. T.) \ 1, anterior fossa and roof of the orbit, as formed by the frontal bone ; between 2 and 3, the foramen caecum, crista galli and cribri- form plate of ethmoid ; 3, ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid ; 4, lesser wing of sphenoid terminating posteriorly in the ante- rior clinoid process, in- side which is the optic foramen; 5, placed in the pitnitary fossa, be- hind the olivary emi- nence and transverse groove of the optic com- missure ; 6, dorsum sellse, terminating in the posterior clinoid pro- cesses ; 7, foramen rotun- dum, in front of which, but not seen in the figure, is the sphenoidal fissure ; 8,foramen ovale; 9, foramen spinosum ; 10, on the petrous bone, near its apex, and to the inside of the hollow occu- pied by the Gasserian ganglion ; in front of this is the foramen lacerum ; rl, in front of the eminence of the superior semicircular canal, and behind the hiatus Fallopii ; 12, upper border of the petrous, marked by the superior petrosal groove ; 13, the posterior surface of the petrous —to the inside, tiie internal auditory meatus, behind, the scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 14, basilar groove ; 15, anterior condylar foramen ; 16, jugular foramen ; 17, groove of the lateral sinus ; 18, internal occipital protuberance, and run- ning down from it the internal occipital crest; between 17 and 18, the upper part of the groove cf the lateral sinus, between 17 and 16, the lower part; 19, cerebellar fossa.65 INTERIOR OF TEE CRANIUM. of which the diploe is entirely absent; the bone is also thin and com- pact in the middle part of the inferior occipital fossae, and in the squama and glenoid fossa of the temporal. The upper part of the cranial cavity consists of a single vaulted dome formed by the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones. It is marked by the superior longitudinal groove, by shallow cerebral impressions, by small ramified meningeal grooves, and by Pacchionian fossae of varying Fig. 54. Fig. 54.—Sagittal section op the adult skull a little to the left op the middle line. (A. T.) £ 1, nasal bone; 2, perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with olfactory foramina and grooves at its upper part; 3, vomer ; 4, right superior maxillary bone, forming part of the wall of the right nasal fossa ; below this, the anterior extremity of the right inferior tur- binate bone overhanging x , which is the right inferior meatus of the nose ; 5, crista galli; 6, inner surface of the frontal bone ; 7, of the parietal bone ; 8, squamous part of the temporal; 9, on the occipital bone below the internal occipital protuberance ; 10, external occipital protuberance ; 11, on the condylar process below the anterior condylar foramen ; 12, on the posterior surface of the petrous below the internal auditory meatus ; between 9 and 12, the groove of the right lateral sinus ; 13, placed above the sella turcica; 14, left frontal sinus ; 15, loft sphenoidal sinus, the figure being placed on the sphenoidal septum ; 16, hard palate and alveolar arch—the figure is placed near the lower opening of the pos- terior palatine canal, and the grooves which extend forwards from it; 17, anterior nasal spine ; 18, section of the left superior maxillary bone, and near the place to which the line points, the section of the anterior palatine canal; 19, on the inner surface of the ramus of the lower jaw,below the sigmoid notch, and above the inferior dental foramen ; 20, inner surface of the body of the jaw on the mylo-liyoid ridge ; 21, surface of section of the lower jaw to the left of the symphysis ; behind the symphysis, and between 21 and 22, the mental spines ; 23, mylo-hyoid groove. VOL. i. FBONES OF THE HEAD. GG depth. The lower part or internal base of the skull is divided into three fossae, named anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior fossa, formed by the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and the small wings and part of the body of the sphenoid, supports the frontal lobes of the brain. It is convex laterally over the orbits, but sinks into a hollow over the cribri- form plate of the ethmoid, in the middle line of which the crista galli stands up, separating the deep olfactory grooves for the reception of the olfactory bulbs. In front of the crista galli is the foramen ca3cum, on each side are the numerous apertures of the cribriform plate, the inner openings of the internal orbital canals and the foramen by which the nasal nerve passes into the nose. The middle fossa, on a lower level than the anterior, presents a mesial and two lateral parts. The mesial part is small, being formed by the olivary eminence and sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, and limited be- hind by the dorsum sellm. The lateral part on each side, formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous part, and the anterior surface of the petrous part of the temporal, lodges the temporal lobe of the brain. The foramina of the middle fossa are the optic foramen, sphenoidal fissure, foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, foramen lacerum and hiatus Fallopii. The foramen lacerum (medium) is an irregular aperture between the apex of the petrous and the body and great wing of the sphenoid, and in the recent state is closed below by a mass of fibrous tissue ; the carotid canal opens on its external wall, the Vidian canal anteriorly. The lingula projecting backwards from the body of the sphenoid effects a partial, sometimes a complete sub- division of the space ; by the inner part the carotid artery enters the cranial cavity, and through the external the large superficial petrosal nerve, coming from the Vidian, reaches the hiatus Fallopii. The posterior fossa, deeper and larger than the others, extends back to the occipital protuberance, and lodges the cerebellum, medulla •oblongata and pons. The occipital bone, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the postero-inferior angle of the parietal and the body of the sphenoid take part in its formation. On the posterior surface of the petrous, which limits this fossa anteriorly on each side, is the internal auditory meatus; lower down is the jugular foramen ; between that and the foramen magnum is the anterior condylar foramen. The jugular foramen (foramen lacerum posterius) is formed by the jugular ■notches of the petrous and occipital bones ; somewhat pyriform in shape, two more ,or less marked constrictions indicate a division into three compartments; most ■externally and posterioriy is a large rounded part occupied by the lateral sinus ; the middle part, corresponding to a distinct notch in the lower border of the petrous, transmits the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves, and the most anterior and internal, sometimes completely separated by a spiculum of bone, gives passage to the inferior petrosal sinus. Grooves for Bloodvessels.—The groove of the middle meningeal artery commences at the foramen spinosum, and ramifies principally on the squamous portion of the temporal hone and on the parietal. The groove of the internal carotid artery lies on the side of the body of the sphenoid, and terminates inside the anterior clinoid process. The groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, commencing at the frontal crest, passes backwards in the middle line of the roof of the skull, andNASAL CAVITIES AND AIR SINUSES. C7 terminates at the internal occipital protuberance. From that point the grooves of the lateral sinuses pass outwards on the occipital bone, cross the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, descend on the mastoid portions of the temporal bones, run inwards again on the occipital, and turn forwards to terminate at the jugular foramen. The groove of the inferior petrosal sinus lies between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar process ; that of the superior petrosal sinus extends along the superior edge of the petrous portion. THE NASAL CAVITIES AND COMMUNICATING AIR SINUSES. The nasal cavities, or fossae, are placed one on each side of a median vertical septum. They open in front by the anterior nasal aperture and behind by the posterior nares already described, and communicate with the sinuses of the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary bones. Their vertical extent, as well as that from before backwards, is considerable, but their transverse width is very limited, especially in the upper part. The internal wall, or septum nasi, is formed by the central plate of the ethmoid, the vomer, the nasal spine of the frontal, the rostrum of the sphenoid, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones. It presents a great angular deficiency in front, which in the recent state is filled up by the septal cartilage. In most cases it deviates somewhat from the middle line to one side or the other. The roof is horizontal in its middle part, but sloped downwards be- fore and behind. The middle part is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, the fore part by the frontal and nasal bones, and the back part by the body of the sphenoid, the ala of the vomer and the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. It presents the apertures of the cribriform plate and the orifice of the sphenoidal sinus. The floor, formed by the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, is smooth, and concave from side to side. Towards its anterior extremity is the orifice of the incisor foramen. The external wall is the most extensive. The bones which take part in its formation are the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, inferior spongy, and palate bones, and the internal pterygoid plates. The superior and inferior turbinate processes of the ethmoid bone, and the inferior spongy bone projecting inwards, overhang the three hollows called meatuses. The superior meatus, very short, is placed between the superior and inferior turbinate parts of the ethmoid ; into it open anteriorly the posterior ethmoidal cells, and posteriorly the spheno- palatine foramen. The middle meatus, the space between the inferior turbinate part of the ethmoid and the inferior spongy bone, communi- cates at its fore part by means of the infundibulum, with the anterior ethmoidal cells and the frontal sinus, while in its middle is the opening of the maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, longer than the others, lies between the inferior spongy bone and the floor of the nasal cavity, and in its fore part is the orifice of the nasal duct. The air sinuses are hollows within the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and maxillary bones, which communicate with the nasal cavities by narrow orifices. With the exception of the maxillary sinus these cavities are absent in early youth. The maxillary sinus begins to be formed about the fourth month of foetal life ; the frontal, ethmoidal and63 Fig. 55.—Sagittal section of LEFT NASAL FOSSA, &C. (A.T.) £ BONES OF ,TIIE HEAD. A PART OF THE SKULL, SHOW- dorsum sell® divided ; and between 9 and 10, the sella turcica ; 11, posterior surface of Fig. 55. sphenoidal first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the time of puberty, when they undergo a great enlargement. In advanced fife they all increase in size by absorption of the cancellated ING THE OUTER WALL OF THE 1, nasal bone ; 2, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone; 3, vertical plate of the palate bone ; 4, superior turbinate bone —below it the superior meatus, behind it the opening into the left sphenoidal sinus; 5, the middle turbinate bone—below it the middle meatus, into which opens the maxillary sinus ; supe- riorly and anteriorly, is the open- ing of the infundibulum ; behind it, and above 3, the spheno- palatine foramen ; 6, inferiol- turbinate bone — below it the inferior meatus x x ; below these marks the section of the palate plates of the left palate and superior maxillary bones ; 7, left frontal sinus ; 8, left sphenoidal sinus; 9, left optie foramen in the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and anterior clinoid process ; 10, the petrous, close to the internal auditory meatus ; 12, basilar process of the occipital bone, close to the jugular foramen; 13, below the anterior condylar foramen; 14, left styloid process ; 15, external, and 16, internal pterygoid plates ; 17, posterior palatine canal. tissue in their vicinity. The ethmoidal sinuses consist of several irregular spaces occupying the lateral masses of the ethmoid, and completed by the frontal, sphenoid, lachrymal, inferior maxillary and palate bones. The anterior, the larger and more numerous, open into the middle, the posterior into the superior meatus. The frontal sinuses are placed between the outer and inner tables of the frontal bone over the root of the nose. They extend outwards from behind the glabella to a variable distance over the orbit, being separated from each other by a thin bony septum. They open into the middle meatuses of the nose through the infundibula. The sphenoidal sinuses occupy the body of the sphenoid, being formed in connection with the sphenoidal spongy bones. They are separated by a median septum, and open on the roof of the nose above the superior meatus. The maxillary sinus has been described in connection with the superior maxillary bone ; it opens by a small aperture into the middle meatus. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The ossification of the bones of the base of the cranium takes place for the most part in cartilage, and in each case proceeds from several centres which represent distinct bones in the lower vertebrate types ; the bones of the roof are simpler in their development and originate in membrane; those of the face are also deposited in membrane, with the exception of the inferior turbinate bone and a small part of the lower jaw. In the expanded tabular bones the ossification spreads outwards from the centres, and the marginal portions, in the earlier stages, present more or less the form of radiated fibres or spicula. At birth the sutural edges, and especially the angles, are incomplete, the bones being united and the interspaces filled up by fibrous tissue. The diploe and sinuses are at firstOSSIFICATION OF THE OCCIFITAL AND FRONTAL BONES. 69 absent, some of the latter arising early in life, and others being formed at a comparatively late but variable period. The ocoipital bone at birth consists of four separate pieces—a basilar, a tabular, and two condylar parts, united by intervening cartilage. The lines of junction of the basilar and condylar parts pass through the condyles near their anterior extremities; those of the condylar and tabular parts extend outwards from the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. The basilar (basioccipital) and con- Fig. 56.—Ossification of the occipital bone (R. Quain). A, in a foetus of 10 weeks (from Meckel); a, tabular part; 1 & 2, lower and upper pairs of centres; b, lower part or basilar and condylar portions : ossific centres are seen in the condylar portions. B, occipital bone at birth ; a, tabular part, in which the four centres have become united into one, leaving fissures between them ; b, b, condylar portions; c, basilar portion. Fig. 56. B dylar parts (exoccipitals) arise each from one osseous nucleus, which appears in the seventh or eighth week.* In the tabular part there appear, a few days earlier, usually four nuclei, an upper and a lower pair; these speedily unite, but leave fissures running in from the upper and lateral angles, which remain for some time after birth. The upper pair of these differ from the other centres of this bone in being deposited in membrane, and whilst the lower portion of the tabular part is the proper supraoccipital element, the upper represents the interparietal bone of many animals ; it occasionally happens that this remains distinct in the human skull, the upper part of the occipital squama being separated from the rest by a suture running transversely from one lateral angle to the other, and by no means unfrequently a partial division exists, by persistence of the lateral fissures, which may even simulate fracture. The osseous union of the supra- and exoccipitals, beginning in the second or third, is completed in the fourth year; that of the basi- and exoccipitals, beginning in the third or fourth, is completed in the fifth or sixth year. The basioccipital is united to the basisphenoid by intervening cartilage up to about the twentieth year, after which ossific union begins and is completed in one or two years. The parietal bone is ossified from a single nucleus, which appears in the situation of the parietal eminence about the seventh week. The eminence is very Fig. 57.—Frontal bone of a foetus shortly before birth (R. Quain). a k b indicate the two portions of the bone, in each of which the radiation of bony spicula from the frontal eminence is seen. conspicuous in the young bone, and gives a marked character to the form of the skull for a number of years in early life. The frontal bone is ossified from two nuclei which appear one on each side above the orbital arch, about the seventh week. At birth the bone consists of two separate lateral portions, which meet in In the descriptions of the mode of ossification of the bones, weeks and months refer always to periods of fcetal life. Fig. 57.Fig. 58.—Skull of a child at birth, seen from BONES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 58. 70 Fig. 59.—Separate parts of the temporal bone Fig. 59. a vertical median suture during the first year. This frontal suture usually be- comes obliterated by osseous union taking place from below upwards, during the second year, though not unfrequently it persists throughout life. The frontal sinuses appear about the second year, and continue to increase in size up to old age. The Fontanelles. These are membranous intervals between the incomplete angles of the parietal and neighbouring bones, in some of which movements of the soft wall of the cranium may be observed in connection with variations in the state of the circulation and respiration. They are six in number, two median, above (from Leiskman). a a, anterior fontanelle ; p, posterior fontanelle; b, b, parietal eminences ; for the lateral fontanelles, see fig. 65, p. 79. anterior and posterior, and four lateral. The anterior fontanelle, situated between the an- tero-superior angles of the parietal bones and the superior angles of the ununited halves of the frontal bone, is quadrangular in form, and remains open for some time after birth. The posterior fontanelle, situated between the p>os- tero-superior angles of the parietal bones and the superior angle of the occipital bone, is triangular in shape. It is filled up before birth, but the edges of the bones, being united by membrane only, are still freely movable upon each other. The lateral fontanelles, small and of irregular form, are situated at the inferior angles of the parietal bones. The fontanelles are gradually filled up by the extension of ossification into the membrane which occupies them, thus completing the angles of the bones and forming the sutures. The closure, especially of the posterior and lateral, is often assisted by the development of Wormian bones in these situations. All traces of these unossified spaces disappear before the age of four years. The temporal bone in the later stages of foetal life consists of three principal pieces, the squamo-zygomatic, petro-mastoid, and tympanic. The squamo-zygomatic is ossified in membrane from a single nucleus, which appears in the lower part of OF A CHILD AT BIRTH (R. Quain). a, squamo-zygomatic ; b, tympanic, forming an imperfect ring, open superiorly ; c, petro-mastoid, c being placed on the mastoid part. the squamosal about the seventh or eighth week. From this point ossification extends upwards into the squamosal, and outwards into the zygoma. During the third month an osseous nucleus appears in the lower part of the external mem- branous wall of the tympanum, and extends upwards forming the tympanic ring, an imper- fect circle, open superiorly, and which encloses the tympanic membrane. Before birth the ex- tremities of this ring become united with the squamo-zygomatic. Petro-mastoid or periotic. The ossification of this part of the temporal bone does not begin so soon as that of the other parts. It is only towards the end of the fifth month and in the course of the sixth that the bony parts of the internal ear begin to appear in the cartilage which precedes them. The osseous deposit takes place at many points, the chief of which are situated in the wall of the labyrinth in connection with the formation of the cochlea and semicircular canals, and the different nuclei soon unite. According to Huxley the principal ossific centres come to be disposed so as to form three portions, to which he hasOSSIFICATION OF THE TEMPORAL AND SPHENOID BONES. 71 given the following names, viz.: 1, Prootic, including most of the labyrinth and upper part of the petrous, together with part of the mastoid ; 2, Opisthotic, com- prehending mainly the lower part of the petrous, with the fenestra rotunda and half of the fenestra ovalis; and 3, Epiotic, corresponding to the lower part of the mastoid. More recently the mode of ossification of the periotic in man has been studied by A. J. Vrolik, who describes the petrous as being developed from four centres, which are placed around the labyrinth, and have coalesced by the end of the sixth month, while the mastoid part is formed from two independent nuclei, which unite with the petrous before the time of birth (Niederl. Arch. f. Zoologie, i. 291). At birth the petro-mastoid is separated from the squamosal by a thin plate of intervening cartilage, bony union taking place during the first year ; the mastoid portion also is quite flat, the glenoid fossa shallow, the articular eminence scarcely to be seen, and the tympanic ring and membrane are even with the outer surface of the bone. After birth the external auditory meatus is gradually formed by the outgrowth of the united squamous and petro-mastoid portions above and behind, and of the tympanic plate in front and below ; the latter is developed from the outer margin of the slender tympanic ring, commencing in the form of two small tubercles at the fore and hinder parts respectively ; these increase in size and meet in the floor of the meatus, enclosing a foramen which is gradually closed. The foramen is completed as a rule in the second year, and is seldom obliterated before five years of age. The part of the wall of the meatus which was occupied by the foramen is commonly thin, and frequently a small aperture persists through life. On the posterior surface of the petrous at birth is a considerable depression extending into the arch of the superior semicircular canal, and which represents the floccular fossa of the lower animals ; in the adult bone a vestige of this is always present as a small fissure above and outside the internal auditory meatus, between that and the aqueduct of the vestibule. The mastoid process is developed about the second year, but the air-cells are not formed till near puberty. The styloid process is formed by two small ossifications in cartilage : the tympanoliyal at the base, commencing before birth and speedily joining the bone, and the stylohyal commencing usually after birth, but remaining very small until the period of puberty; this only joins after adult age is reached, and often remains permanently separate (Flower, Brit. Ass. Rep. 1870). The sphenoid bone presents in infancy traces of a natural division into a pos- terior or postsphenoid part, to which the sella turcica and great wings belong, and an anterior or presphenoid part, to which belong the body in front of the olivary eminence and the small wings,—a division which is found in many animals complete and persistent through life. The first osseous nuclei of the postsphenoid division appear about the eighth week in the great wings (alisphenoids), between the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale, and spread thence outwards into the wing and downwards into the external pterygoid plate. About the same time also two granules appear in the postsphenoid part of the body (basisphenoid), placed side by side in the sella turcica ; these unite about the fourth month, and after their union two others appear, from which are formed the lingulse (basi- temporals), inside which are placed the carotid grooves. The internal pterygoid plates, corresponding to the pterygoid bones of animals, are ossified from distinct nuclei, which are deposited in membrane and appear in the fourth month ; they unite with the external pterygoid plates in the fifth or sixth month. The great wings are united to the body in the first year. In the presphenoid division the first pair of nuclei appear in the eighth or ninth week outside the optic foramina, and extend by their growth into the small ■wings (orbitosphenoids) : another pair of granules appear on the inner sides of the foramina, and the presphenoid portion of the body either results from the union of these, or is an independent growth. The presphenoid is united to the body of the postsphenoid in the seventh or eighth month. The line of union is indicated for some time by a hole filled with cartilage, round above, and opening inferiorly into a wide notch, which is recognisable for several years after birth. The body of the presphenoid is for a year or two broad and rounded inferiorly, hut becomes gradually narrower and more prominent: it is separated at first by a layer of fibro-cartilage from the sphenoidal spongy bones.BONES OF THE HEAD. The sphenoidal spongy hones seldom appear till after birth, and are united to the body at the age of puberty. Each is in early life a hollow pyramid formed by the union of three laminae, viz., an inferior, an external, and a superior; and the sphenoidal sinus subsequently results from the expansion of the cavity thus enclosed. The inferior lamina forms the greater part of what can be distinguished Fig. GO. Fig. GO.—Ossification of the sphenoid bone (K. Quain). A, sphenoid bone at an early period, seen from above ; 1, 1', the greater wings ossified ; 2, 2', the lesser wings, in which the ossification has encircled the optic foramen, and a small suture is distinguishable at its posterior and inner side ; 3, two round granules of bones in the body below the sella turcica., the rest being cartilaginous. B, copied from Meckel (Archiv. vol. i. tab. vi. fig. 23), and stated to be from a fetus of six months ; 2*, additional nuclei for the lesser wings ; 5, separate lateral processes of the body (lingulae): the other indications are the same as in A. C, back part of the bone shown in A ; 4, internal pterygoid plates still separate. D, sphenoid at birth. The great wings are still separate. The presphenoid is now joined to the basisphenoid, "and the internal pterygoid plates (not seen in the figure) are united to the external. in the adult; the external is that to which the orbital portion belongs ; while the superior lamina, foiming the inner wall and roof of the original sphenoidal sinus, becomes, as the sinus expands, partly absorbed and partly united to the attenuated body of the presphenoid, which is ultimately reduced to the thin sphenoidal septum and the rostrum. In the ethmoid bone ossification commences in the fourth or fifth month, by the appearance of a nucleus in the orbital plates of the lateral masses gradually extending into the turbinate bones. During the first year the vertical and cribri- form plates are ossified from a single nucleus, which, spreading outwards, unites with the lateral masses about the beginning of the second year. The ethmoidal cells are not formed till the fourth or fifth year. The superior maxillary bone commences to ossify immediately after the clavicle and the lower jaw. As described by Callender (Phil. Trans. 1869, p. 163), the osseous deposit takes place in many points, appearing first in the orbital plate, the nasal process and the alveolar border, but they speedily fuse, and can not be regarded as separate centres. The part of the bone, however, which carries the incisor teeth, extending as far back as the incisor foramen, has an indepen- dent origin, corresponding to the premaxillary bone of the lower animals. In young subjects always, and often in the adult, there is to be seen a fine fissure, incisor fissure, on the under surface of the palate process, passing outwards from the anterior palatine canal to the alveolar border, in front of the canine socket; and on the upper surface a similar line may be seen, though less frequently, extending up some distance on the nasal surface of the body ; but no trace of the line of union exists on the facial surface, as is the case in the lower animals.OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE FACE. 73 Callender explains this as being due to the development at the lower and fore part of the maxilla of an outgrowth, which he terms the incisor process, and which forms the front wall of the incisor sockets ; behind this process, between it and the palate process, is a deep groove in which the premaxillary bone is formed, the latter being distinct up to the fifth month of foetal life. The sockets of the teeth are formed by the downgrowth of an outer and an inner plate on the sides of the dental groove, and subsequently the partitions Fig. 61. Fig. 61.—Different views op the superior maxiluary bone op a fcetus op four or five months (R. Quain). A, external surface ; a fissure, 1, is seen extending through the orbit into the infra- orbital canal. B, the internal surface ; the incisor fissure, 2, extends from the foramen upwards through the horizontal plate and some way into the nasal process. C, the bone from below, showing the imperfect alveoli and the incisor fissure, 2', 1, which crosses the palate plate, between the second and third alveoli, and passes through the outer part of the bone. appear, those on each side of the canine tooth first. The antrum appears as a shallow depression on the inner surface of the bone at about the fourth month ; this gradually extends, separating the orbital and palate portions of the bone, which at birth are still very close together. The infraorbital canal begins as a groove on the orbital surface, the margins of which gradually close over, but a fine suture remains indicating the line of meeting. The palate bone is ossified from a single centre, which appears in the seventh or eighth week at the angle between its horizontal and ascending parts. The vomer is ossified from a single nucleus appearing at the hinder part about the eighth week. From this nucleus two laminae are developed, which, passing Fig. 62.—The fcetal vomer near tiie time of birth (R. Quain). 1 & 2 show the two plates of which the bone consists, and which are united behind and below. up on either side of the middle line, embrace the septal cartilage. These laminae gradually undergo increased union from behind forwards till the age of puberty, thus forming a mesial plate, with only a groove remaining on its anterior and superior margins. The nasal and lachrymal bones are each ossified from a single centre, which appears about the eighth week. The malar bone also commences to ossify about the eighth week. According to Rambaud and Renault it is developed from three points which have united by the fourth month of fcetal life ; and to the persistent separation of one of these, the divided condition of the bone referred to on p. 53 may be due. The inferior turbinate bone is ossified in cartilage from a single centre, which only appears in the fifth month. The inferior maxillary bone is developed principally in the fibrous tissue investing Meckel’s cartilage (see development of the head in Vol. II.), but to Fig. 62. 2 *’ ■ QBONES OF THE HEAD. n a less extent the cartilage itself participates in the ossification. At birth it con- sists of the lateral parts united at the symphysis by fibrous tissue, the osseous union takes place in the first year. The process of ossification commences very early, being preceded only by the clavicle, and proceeds rapidly : its precise method is still uncertain, but most observers are agreed that it takes place from several centres, which speedily unite. The largest part of each half is formed from a deposit in the membrane on the outer side of Meckel’s cartilage, and, according to Callender (Joe. cit.), there is added on the inner side of this a second smaller plate which forms the floor of the dental groove (subsequently the inferior dental canal) and the inner wall of the tooth-sockets. A small part of the body by side of the symphysis results from the direct ossification of the anterior end of Meckel’s cartilage; and, posteriorly, the condyle and a where it becomes continuous with rounded by fibrous tissue which Fig. 63. Fig. 63.—The inferior maxilla of a CHILD AT BIRTH (11. Qliain). a & b indicate the two portions separate at the symphysis. portion of the ramus are developed from another ossification in cartilage. The last, however, is not connected with Meckel’s cartilage, which can be seen in a foetus of the fifth or sixth month to be prolonged up to the fissure of Glaser, the slender process of the malleus, sur- eventually forms the so-called internal lateral ligament of the jaw. At birth the coronoid process is large, the neck of the condyle short and bent backwards, the ramus also very short and oblique, the angle at which it joins the body of the jaw being about 140°. During the succeeding years the body becomes deeper, thicker, and longer, the ramus and the neck of the condyle lengthen, and the angle at which the ramus joins the body becomes less obtuse, till in the adult it is nearly a right angle. In old age, consequent upon the loss of the teeth and the absorption of the alveolar margin, the body becomes shallower, and the angle is again increased. The hyoid bone has five points of ossification—one for the body, and one for each of its great and small cornua. The ossification begins in the great cornua and body in the last month of foetal life, in the small cornua in the first year after birth. The great cornua and body unite in middle life, the small cornua only exceptionally in advanced age. The stylo-hyoid ligaments are occasionally ossified in some part of their extent. GENERAL MORPHOLOGY OE THE BONES OF THE HEAD. The circumstances which contribute most to modify the form of the human skull and the condition of its component bones, as compared with that of animals, are—1st, the proportionally large size of the brain and the corresponding- expansion of the cranial bones which enclose it; 2nd, the smaller development of the face as a whole, and especially of the jaws, which brings the facial bones almost entirely under the fore part of the brain-case, instead of in front of it, as occurs in all animals, with the partial exception of the anthropoid apes ; and 3rd, the adaptation of the human skeleton to the erect posture, which, as regards the head, is attended with the sudden bend of the basicranial axis at a consider- able angle upon the line of the erect vertebral column ; and along with this the advance of the occipito-vertebral articulation to such an extent as to make the head nearly balanced on the upper extremity of the spine. The downward openings of the nostrils, the forward aspect of the orbits and eyes, the nearly vertical fore- head and more or less oval-shaped face, are accompaniments of these human peculiarities in the form of the head, which, together with those already men- tioned, strongly contrast with the smaller cranium and its strong crests of bone,HOMOLOGIES OF TIIE BONES OF THE nEAD. 75 the larger projecting face and jaws, and the other characteristic features of the skull in most animals. As regards the condition of the individual bones, it is further to be remarked that there is generally in the human skull a more complete consolidation or bony union of the osseous elements than in animals, so that the whole number of bones forming the cranium and face is least in man. Thus, to mention only some of the most marked examples of this difference among mammals; the frontal bone and the lower jaw frequently divided into two lateral portions ; the premaxillary very generally a separate bone from the maxillary ; the presphenoid in many separate from the postsphenoid ; the interparietal from the occipital; the reduction in size of the squamosal, and its occasional separation from the petrous ; the increase in the proportions of the tympanic portion or bulla ; and. the very frequent development of bony elements connecting the hyoid bone directly with the skull. It is also worthy of observation that some of the conditions now referred to as permanent in animals exist as transitory stages of develop- ment in the foetus of man. Homologies.—It would be out of place in this work to enter at any length into the consideration of the homologies of the bones of the human skull,—a subject which would require a minute reference to embryology and a wide range of comparative anatomy. But as it may be useful at least to show the bearing of such homological views on human anatomy, there has been introduced here a dia- grammatic figure of the bones of the foetal head (see fig. G4) and a table of their nomenclature, in which an attempt is made to indicate the morphological relations of the several bones to each other and to those of quadrupeds, and an explanation is given of the signification of some of the terms applied by comparative ana- tomists to these bones in connection with the names usually given to them in works on human anatomy. For fuller information on this subject the reader is referred to the works of Owen. Goodsir, Huxley, Flower, St. George Mivart, Gegen- baur, and others already quoted. CLASSIFIED LIST OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD AND THEIE TYPICAL COMPONENT PABTS * :— 1. BONES FORMING- THE CRANIO-FACIAL AXIS. Mesethmoid ; Vertical plate of the ethmoid bone, including the cartilaginous nasal septum, which is partially enclosed by Vomeric (in') ; The Vomer. Presphenoid ; Anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone. Basisphenoid; Posterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, including the sella turcica. Basioccipital; Basilar process of the occipital bone. 2. BONES FORMING THE LATERAL AND UPPER WALLS OF THE CRANIAL CAVITY. Orbitosphenoids ; The lesser wings of the sphenoid bone. Frontals (to) ; United in the single frontal. Alisphenoids ; Great wings of the sphenoid with the external pterygoid plates. Parietals (to) ; The parietal bones. Exoccipitals; Condylar portions of the occipital bone. Supraoccipital; Lower portion of the tabular part. Interparietal (to), of some animals, corresponds to the upper part of the foregoing. The temporal bones interposed between the occipitals and sphenoids consist of Periotics, or petro-mastoid bones ; The petrous and mastoid portions of * The names first given, and printed in black type, are those received in comparative anatomy ; those usually employed in human anatomy follow, and are printed in common type. The bones which are developed in membrane are indicated by (m) following their names; in the others, ossification commences in cartilage.BONES OF TEE HEAD. 76 the temporal bone ; the first including- the labyrinth and internal auditory- meatus. Squamosals, or squamo-zyg-omatie (m); The squamous part of the temporal bone with the zygoma, including the articular surface for the lower jaw. Tympanies (on) ; The tympanic plate, forming the auditory and vaginal pro- cesses. 3. BONES COMPLETING- THE FACE AND ENCLOSING THE NOSE, MOUTH, AND PHARYNX. Ethmoturbinals; The lateral masses with the upper and lower turbinate bones of the ethmoid. Lachrymals (on) ; The lachrymal bones. Nasals (m) ; The nasal bones. Maxilloturbinals; The inferior turbinate bones. Premaxillary, or intermaxillary (on) ; The incisor part of the superior maxil- lary bones. Pterygoids (on) ; The internal pterygoid plates. Palatals (on) ; The palate bones. Maxillae (m); The superior maxillary bones, excepting the incisor part. Malars, or jugals (on) ; The malar bones. Malleus, Incus, and Stapes; The auditory ossicles or malleus, incus, and stapes. Mandible (on) ; The inferior maxilla or lower jaw. Stylohyals with Tympanohyals; The styloid processes of the temporal bones. Epihyals; The stylo-hyoid ligaments. Ceratohyals; The small cornua of the hyoid bone. Basihyal; The body of the hyoid bone. Thyrohyals; The great cornua of the hyoid bone. Branchial Arches; These follow the preceding, but are only temporary foetal structures in man and all vertebrate animals, except amphibia and fishes. The general correspondence between the bones of the head in man and animals, implied in the names given to them in the foregoing table, is so well ascertained, and, in most instances, so obvious, that it is unnecessary to say more than that it is very generally acknowledged by comparative anatomists, and that it is chiefly on some points connected with the earliest condition, and the homological comparison of a few of the bones, that differences of opinion continue to exist. Besides the general evidence in favour of the homologies of these bones which has been drawn from the study of their form, position and connections, strong confirmation of these views is also obtained from their relations to other organs. Among these, from the remarkable constancy of their relations, the passage of the nerves out of the cranium is one of the most important. Thus, the netves belonging to the principal organs of the senses pass into their sense capsules as follows, viz. : the olfactory through the cribriform plate developed in connection with the ethmoturbinal; the optic through the inner part of the orbitosphenoid ; the auditory directly into the periotic. Farther, the motor nerves of the eyeball and its muscles, with the ophthalmic division of the trifacial, pass between the orbitosphenoid and alisphenoid; the second and third divisions of the trifacial through the inner part of the alisphenoid ; the facial by its descending division through the internal meatus, the so-called aqueduct of Fallopius, and the stylo-mastoid foramen, and by the Vidian nerve, through the pterygoid canal; the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves between the petrosal and exoccipital; and the hypoglossal nerve through the condylar fora- men of the exoccipital. The internal carotid artery, it may be farther stated, enters the cranium by a canal separated from the foramen lacerum or space between the petrous, basioccipital, and basisphenoid ; and the jugular vein issues between the petrous and exoccipital. A general review of the relations of the bones of the head leads to the conclu-HOMOLOGIES OF THE BOXES OF THE HEAD. 77 sion that they may be looked upon as consisting' mainly of three sets of parts, viz.: 1st, Basal or central parts, comprising the basioccipital, basisphenoid, presphenoid and mesethmoid, which form a series prolonged forwards in the line of the vertebral axis, and constituting a cranio-facial axis ; 2nd, Superior arches, Fig. 64. Fig. 64.—Diagrammatic view of the bones in the right haIf of a fcetal skull FROM THE INSIDE. (A. T.) In this figure the bones have been slightly separated and displaced so as to bring the whole into one view : /, frontal : pa, parietal; so, supraoccipital; n, nasal; l, lachry- mal ; ma, malar ; os, orbitosphenoid ; as, alisphenoid ; sq, squamosal ; zy, zygomatic ; per, periotic ; eo, exoccipital ; et, ethmoturbinal; mx, maxilla ; mt, maxilloturbinal; pm, premaxillary; me, mesethmoid ; r, vomer ; pi, palatal; pt, pterygoid ; ps, pre- sphenoid ; bs, basisphenoid; bo, basioccipital ; c, bodies of 2nd, 3rd, and 4tli cervical vertebrae ; c', odontoid process ; x, anterior arch of atlas ; s, spinous processes of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebrae ; cm, neural canal; ch, a line indicating the position of the notochord passing through the vertebral bodies into base of the cranium, bs ; ty, tympanic, along with ml, i, and st, displaced from its connection with per ; ml, malleus ; c. mk, cartilage of Meckel ; mn, mandible ; i, incus ; st, stapes ; sth, stylohyal; ch, ceratohyal; th, thyrohyal ; bh, basihyal; t, thyroid cartilage. enclosing the brain, and consisting generally of more or less expanded bones, viz., the exoccipital and supraoccipital together with the interparietal, the alisphenoids, squamosals and parietals, the orbitosphenoids and frontals ; and 3rd, Inferior arches, surrounding the visceral cavity as represented by the nose, mouth, and pharynx ; these include the pterygoids, palatals and maxillae in a first arch, the mandible and the malleus of the internal ear in a second, the basi-, cerato-, epi-, stylo- and tympanohyals in a third, whilst the thyrohyals are the rudiments of a fourth. To these succeed in the lowest vertebrates the series of'3 BONES OF THE HEAD. branchial arches, hut which, although indicated in the early embryo, never attain even the cartilaginous condition in man and the higher animals. Together with the foregoing are associated two other sets of elements, viz., 1st, the Sense capsules or cavities, which are interposed between other bones, and are con- nected with the lodgment of the higher organs of sense, the nose, eye, and ear ; and in the case of the nose (ethmo- and maxilloturbinals), but more especially of the ear (periotic), the capsules are formed of special and complex bony apparatus ; and 2nd, Superadded or investing bones, as the nasal, lachrymal, malar, and vomer, which are extraneous to the more fundamental osseous elements. Vertebrate theory of the skull.—The idea that the skull consists essentially of a series of vertebra?, the superior or neural arches of which have undergone great expansion so as to predominate over the less developed inferior or visceral arches, occurred to Goethe in 1791, but was first published by Oken, by whom it was independently conceived and worked out, in 1807. The theory, however, has undergone various modifications in the hands of the successive comparative anatomists by whom it has been supported, while others of distinction have refused to admit the validity of the grounds on which it has been framed. More recent researches, and especially those of Parker and Gegenbaur, have thrown much new light on the subject. Among the arguments in favour of this theory, may be specially mentioned here :—the general plan of construction of the skull as above explained, viz., a series of central parts, supporting superior and inferior arches which surround the preaxial portions of the cerebro-spinal nervous centre and of the alimentary canal in a way resembling that in which they are enclosed more postaxially by the vertebrae and the appended costal arches; the origin of the walls of the cranial cavity from the same embryonic elements as the vertebrae; and the pro- longation of the notochord in the embryo a considerable distance into the base of the cranium. On the other hand it is to be remarked that the noto- chord does not extend through the whole length of the cranio-facial axis, but terminates close behind the region of the sella turcica, being directed towards the dorsum sellse, and thus leaves a part of the basisphenoid, and the whole of the presphenoid and mesethmoid unoccupied by any true central or vertebral axis ; also that the superior arches differ notably from the neural arches of the verte- brae, not only in being constructed of more numerous osseous elements, but also in being in great part developed in membrane instead of in cartilage, while the inferior arches, besides being also in part intramembranous ossifications, are formed in much closer connection with the wall of the alimentary canal than the ribs, which are laid down in the body wall or somatopleure. (The foetal conditions here referred to will be fully explained in the section on Embryology in Vol. II.) The investigations of the last few years, however, both upon the structure and relations of the head skeleton in its more primitive form, as met with in the lower vertebrates, and upon its mode of development in the embryo, have given strong support to the view that at least the posterior portion of the skull, the part behind the region of the pituitary fossa, has in some degree a vertebrate nature; i.e., that it has had its origin in the coalescence, modification and partial suppression of a series of segments, the number of which is inferred, from the disposition of the visceral arches and of the cranial nerves, to have been con- siderable, but cannot, in the present state of our knowdedge, be precisely deter- mined. To these, other elements, investing bones and dermal ossifications, appear to have been added, giving rise to the membrane bones which consti- tute the roof of the skull and the anterior visceral arches. As to the origin of the anterior portion of the base of the cranium, and especially as to the nature of the trabecula cranii, the two bars prolonged forwards from the extremity of the mass investing the notochord, through the region subsequently becoming the sella turcica, and forming by their union in front a mesial plate in which the presphenoid and mesethmoid are developed, the opinions of observers are still divided, some recognizing in them a foremost pair of visceral arches, while others oppose this view. This, however, is only one among several points which require farther elucidation before any system of cranial morphology worthy ofVARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. 79 general adoption can be formed. (See especially Parker and Bettany, “ The Morphology of the Skull,” 1877, and various papers by Parker in Phil. Trans.; Kolliker, “ Entwicklungsgeschichte,” 2nd ed., 1879; G-egenbaur, “Elements of Comparative Anatomy,” Eng. Trans., 1878, where also other references are given.) THE VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. I. Differences according: to Age.—In the earlier stages of its development the posterior part of the cranium bears a very large proportion to the anterior part ; so much so, that in the second month of foetal life the line of the tentorium cerebelli is vertical to the basis cranii, and divides the cranial cavity almost equally into two parts. The parietal region then increases rapidly in volume, along with the greater development of the cerebral hemispheres ; the frontal region next augments; and again, in the latter part of fortal life, the occipital region increases as the cerebrum extends backwards (Cleland). At the time of birth the Fig. 65.—Lateral view of the child’s head at birth. (From Leishman.) J This figure shows the elongated form of the skull in the infant, and the small proportion which the facial bears to the cranial part, and also the lateral fontanelles at the lower angles of the parietal bones. The lines indicate the various diameters. parietal region has reached its largest development in proportion to the occipital and frontal re- gions. The greatest frontal breadth is then smaller in proportion to that between the parietal eminences than afterwards. In the first years of childhood the superior parts of the cranium grow more rapidly than the base. Thus, in the frontal region, the upper part of the frontal bone grows more rapidly than its orbital plates, giving the prominent appearance of the frontal eminences peculiar to children. The face at birth scarcely reaches an eighth of the bulk of the rest of the head, while in the adult it is at least a half (Froriep, “ Characteristik des Kopfes nach dem Entwicklungsgesetz desselben,” 1815). At the same time that the face increases in bulk, the lower part of the forehead is brought forward by elongation of the anterior cranial fossa, and on the approach of adult age, especially in the male, it becomes still more prominent by the expansion of the frontal sinuses. The face becomes elongated in the progress of growth, partly by increased height of the nasal fossae and adjacent air-sinuses, partly by the growth of the teeth and the enlargement of the alveolar arches of the jaws. In old age the proportion of the face to the cranium is diminished by the loss of the teeth and absorption of the alveolar portions of the jaws. In consequence of this the upper jaw retreats, while in the lower jaw the same cause gives, especially when the mouth is closed, a greater seeming prominence to the chin. II. Sexual Differences.—The female skull is, in general, smaller, lighter, and smoother than that of the male ; the muscular impressions are not so strongly marked, the mastoid processes and the superciliary ridges are less prominent, and the frontal sinuses less developed. The cranial capacity is less, on the average, by one-tenth, than that of the male in the same race, and the frontal and occipital regions are less capacious in proportion to the parietal (Huschke). The face is smaller in proportion to the cranium, the zygomatic arches slender, and the jaws narrower and less prominent. The female skull resembles the young skull more than that of the adult male ; but it must also be admitted that it is often impossible to determine the sex by the appearance or form of a skull. Fig. 65. t80 BOXES OF THE HEAD. III. Race Differences, their Measurement and Classification, Cranio- metry.—The determination and measurement of the differences in form presented by the skull in the various races of mankind have in recent years engaged the attention of many anatomists in this and other countries, and a system of craniometry has been developed, by means of which the nature and degree of these differences can be precisely stated and formulated. This system is in its principles now generally followed, but there is still much difference of opinion as to many of the details, especially as to the best modes of taking several of the measurements, and a greater uniformity amongst observers in this respect is much to be desired. In the brief sketch here given the methods of measure- ment and classification recommended are those used by Professor Flower, as explained by him in the Hunterian Lectures during the years 1877 to 1880, and published in the “ Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons,” part i., 1879, from which also most of the examples cited have been taken ; the measurements of the Andamanese skulls are from a separate memoir by the same author in the “Journal of the Anthropological Institute,” 1879. For further information the reader is referred to Topinard, “ Anthropologie,” Paris, 1876, and especially Broca “ Instructions craniologiques et craniometriques,” Paris, 1875. The first place in importance is necessarily occupied by the capacity of the cranium, as affording the most convenient indication of the development of the brain. This is ascertained by filling the cranial cavity through the foramen magnum, the other apertures having previously been stopped, with some small- grained substance, mustard seed has been found to give the most accurate and constant results, and then measuring the quantity contained in a properly graduated vessel, precautions being taken to ensure an equal pressure in both operations. The capacity of the normal human cranium varies from 1000 to 1800 cubic centimeters (about 60 to 110 cubic inches), with an average in all races of 1400 cubic centimeters (85 cubic inches). Skulls with a capacity of from 1350 to 1450 cubic centimeters are placed in a middle group and termed mesocephalic, those exceeding 1450 cubic centimeters in capacity are megacephalic, and those below 1350 cubic centimeters are microcephalia The following examples are of males only ; the figures in brackets after the names indicate the number of skulls examined, and of which the average is taken. Cranial Capacity. Cub. centim. Cub. inches. Eskimo (17) ..... . . 1546 94-3 English (24, mostly of lowest class) 1511 92-2 Chinese (16) ..... . . 1424 86-9 African Xegroes (26) . 1388 84-7 Xative Australians (32) . . . 1298 79-2 Andaman Islanders (11) 1244 75-9 Before proceeding to the consideration of the linear measurements it is necessary to refer to certain definite points on the surface of the skull from which such measurements are taken, or which have a particular importance as presenting varieties of more or less frequent occurrence, and to which special names have been given, for the most part by Broca, not of ordinary use in descriptive anatomy. The most important of these are :— Alveolar point (fig. 66, A).—The centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. Subnasal or spinal point (S).—The middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture at the base of the nasal spine. Nasion or nasal point (X).—The middle of the naso-frontal suture. Opliryon or supraorbital point (Op).—The middle of the supraorbital line, which, drawn across the narrowest part of the forehead, separates the face from the cranium. Bregma (Bg).—The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures. Obclion (Ob).—The region situated between the two parietal foramina where the sagittal suture is more simple than elsewhere, and where its closure generally commences. Lambda (L).—The point of junction of the sagittal and lambdoid sutures.81 VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL, Occipital point (0).—The point of the occiput in the mesial plane most re- moved from the Ophryon. Inion (I).—The external occipital protuberance. Opisthion.—The middle of the posterior margin of the foramen magnum. Pasion (B).—The middle of the anterior margin of the foramen magnum. Pterion (Pt.).—The region, near the anterior part of the temporal fossa, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous, the parietal and the frontal Fig. 66. Fig. 66.—Side view of skull of a male Australian. (After Flower.) A, alveolar point ; S, subnasal point; N, nasion ; Op, ophryon ; Bg, bregma ; Ob, obelion ; L, lambda ; 0, occipital point; I, inion ; B, basion ; Ft, pterion ; St, stephanion; As, asterion ; Op 0, length of cranium ; B N, basinasal length; B A, basialveolar length ; N S, nasal height. hones approach each other, the exact disposition, however, varying in different individuals. In the most common condition the parietal and great wing of the sphenoid meet and form a short horizontal suture (p. 58), but it sometimes happens that these two bones are separated by the junction of the frontal and squamous, giving rise to a vertical fronto-temporal suture, usually continuing the line of the coronal suture. The latter form is especially frequent in some of the lower races of mankind, and is the usual condition in the gorilla and chimpanzee. There is often a small Wormian bone in this situation, epiptcric bone of Flower, and many cases of the occurrence of a fronto-temporal suture are attributable to the union of this piece of bone with the squamous or frontal. Stephanion (St.).—The point where the coronal suture crosses the temporal line. Asterion (As.).—The point where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito- mastoid sutures meet. When a separate interparietal bone is present the suture dividing it from the supraoccipital runs transversely from asterion to asterion, which will in that case be the meeting point of four sutures. Auricular point.—The centre of the orifice of the external auditory meatus. The chief measurements of the cranium are the circumference, the length, breadth, and height. Of these the first is stated absolutely, while the others are expressed relatively, i.e., the proportion of the breadth and height respectively to the length, such mode of expression being known as an index, VOL. i. GBONES OP TIIE HEAD, 82 The circiimference (horizontal) is taken in a plane passing anteriorly through the ophryon, and posteriorly through the occipital point (fig. 06, 0p O). This may exceed to a slight degree 550 millimeters (21.7 inches) or it may be as low as 450 mm. (17.7 inches). For comparison of the relative development of the anterior and posterior portions of the cranium, the preauricular part of the circumference is divided from the postauricular part by a line on each side jiassing from the auricular point to the bregma (auriculo-bregmatic line). The length of the cranium is measured from the ophryon to the occipital point (Sg. 06, Op O), and this is made the standard = 100. The breadth is, in the examples given below, always the greatest interparietal breadth, but many anthropologists, with probably more reason, take the greatest breadth of the cranium above the level of the zygoma, whether it be over the parietals or squamous; the proportion of this to the length is calculated, 100 x breadth, and length, the result is the index of breadth or the cephalic index. Skulls with a breadth- index above 80 are brachycephalic, from lb to 80 mesaticephalic, and below 75 dolichocephalic. This character exhibits a very wide range of variation, it there- fore early attracted attention, and upon it Retzius founded a primary classifica- tion of skulls ; its value, however, in this respect is not so great as was supposed, since the extremes of dolichocephaly and of brachycephaly are met with in races that are shown otherwise to be nearly allied. The height is measured from the basion to the bregma, and the proportion of this to the length, calculated in the same way, is the index of height. It is subject to less variation than the breadth- index ; in some cases, especially in dolichocephalic skulls, it exceeds, but more frequently it falls below that index. Mongolians of Siberia and Central Asia Andaman Islanders .... Chinese ...... English ...... Native Australian .... Fiji Islanders ..... Breadth- Height- index. index. 88 73 82 77 79 75 76 71 71 71 00 74 For a more accurate determination of the form of the cranium other measure- ments are taken, such as the transverse circumference, passing through the auricular point on each side and the bregma above ; the longitudinal arc from the nasion to the opisthion, with its subdivisions into frontal, parietal and occipital arcs ; transverse arcs from the posterior root of the zygoma immediately above the auricular point of the one side to the other, across the most prominent parts of the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones respectively. The antero- posterior curve of the roof may also be indicated by a series of radii from the basion to the centre of the frontal bone, the bregma, the vertex and the lambda. Other features again are not capable of being expressed in terms of direct measurement, and must be described in each case ; for example, the form of the transverse arch of the cranium, which in the best shaped skulls is full and rounded, whilst in some races, notably in the Australian, the line of the sagittal suture is elevated, and the surface on each side flattened or even some- what depressed, making the calvaria roof-shaped ; and this condition, combined with great prominence of the parietal eminences or of the temporal lines, gives the skull, when viewed from behind, a markedly pentagonal figure. The degree of complication and fusion of the sutures, the amount of projection of the glabella and of the inion, and other variable points, may be stated according to tables furnished by Broca in the work above referred to. The situation and direction of the foramen magnum differ greatly, as was pointed out by Daubenton, in man and the lower animals, in connection with the altered position of the axis of the head in relation to that of the vertebral column. In man the foramen is placed in or near the centre of the base of the skull, and its plane looks mainly downwards, in quadrupeds it is placed on the posterior surface of the skull and looks backwards, while in the anthropoid r.pos it is intermediate in position and direction. But even in human skulls83 VARIOUS FORMS OF THE SKULL. similar differences occur, though much less in degree. In the European the plane of the foramen is inclined upwards anteriorly, in the Australian and Negro it is horizontal or even inclined slightly upwards posteriorly. The degree of inclination requires for its determination a special “occipital goniometer” designed by Broca. In the skeleton of the face the most striking differences are met with in the size of the jaws and the extent to which they project forwards. The human skull, in comparison with that of the lower animals, is especially distinguished by the great expansion of its cranial portion and the relatively small develop- ment of the face, the latter being extended vertically instead of horizontally, and thus brought downwards under the fore part of the cranium. A marked prominence of the jaws constitutes, therefore, an approach to the animal type of skull, and is to be regarded as a character of inferiority, particularly when it is accompanied, as is often the case, by a low and receding forehead. The degree of projection of the jaws beyond the cranium is usually measured by the facial angle, originally designed by Camper, but since variously modified by different anatomists. The most serviceable form of the facial angle is that included between two lines meeting at the alveolar point, the one passing through the ophryon and the other through the auricular point, the ophryo-alveolo-auricular angle. The character is also estimated more conveniently, and with greater accuracy, by the method of Professor Flower, who compares the basialveolar length (fig. 66, BA) with the basinasal length (BN) = 100, the result giving the gnathic or alveolar index; skulls with a gnathic index below 98 are orthognathous, from 98 to 103 mesognathous, and above 103 prognathous. Gnathic Index. English . , 96 Chinese 99 Eskimo # , 101 Fijian 103 Native Australian . 104 In the osseous framework of the nose, and in the form of the anterior nasal aperture, variations are to be recognised corresponding to the external conforma- tion of that feature. Of these, the height and width are capable of exact measurement, and the relation between the two, expressed by the nasal index of Broca, becomes a character of considerable importance. The height is measured from the nasion to the subnasal point (fig. 66, NS), the width is the greatest transverse diameter of the anterior nasal aperture, and the calculated proportion of this to the height = 100, is the index. With a nasal index below 48 a skull is leptorhine, from 48 to 53 mesorhine, above 53 platyrhine. Nasal Index. Eskimo .... 44 English . . 40 Chinese .... 50 Native Australian . . 57 The form of the orbit also varies, but is a less significant character than that of the nose. The orbital index is the ratio of the vertical height of the base of the orbit to the transverse width = 100 ; if above 89 it is megaseme, between 89 and 84 mesoseme, and below 84 microseme. Orbital Index. Andaman Islander . 91 Chinese . . 90 English . . . , 88 Native Australian . . 81 Guanches of Teneriffe 80 For an account of the variations in the form of the palate and of the mandible, as well as of the naso-malar angle of Flower, by which the degree of forward G 284 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. projection of tlie malar bones is estimated, and several other measurements of the face skeleton, reference must be made to the special treatises. (On the foregoing subject consult, in addition to the works of Camper, Cuvier, Blumenbach, Lawrence, Carpenter, and those quoted above, the following: viz., Transl. of the Memoir of Retzius in the Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev. 1S60 ; Owen, in Trans. Zool. Soc., vol. iv., 1851 ; Busk’s papers in Trans. Ethnol. Soc. Lond. vol. i., 1861, and Journ. of Anthrop. Inst., vol. iii. ; Huxley’s Lect. “ Man’s Place in Nature,” and in Joum. of Anat. and Physiol., vols. i. and ii. ; Thumam and Barnard Davis, “ Crania Britannica,” and B. Davis, “ Thesaurus Craniorum,” 1867 ; Cleland in Philos. Trans., 1869 ; Virchow, “Development of the Cranial Basis,” 1857, and in Germ. Quart. Mag. Nov. 1871 ; Huschke, Scliadel, Him, und Seele, &c., 1854; Lucae, Zur Morphol. der Rassenschadel, 1861-64; de Quatre- fages and Hamy, “ Crania Ethnica,” 1873-81). IV. Irregularities of Form.—The most frequent irregularity in the form of the skull is want of symmetry. This sometimes occurs in a marked degree, and there is probably no skull perfectly symmetrical. The condition which has been observed to co-exist most frequently with irregular forms of skull is synos- tosis, or premature obliteration of certain of the sutures. The cranial bones increase in size principally at their margins ; and when a suture is prematurely obliterated the growth of the skull in the direction at right angles to the line of suture may be supposed to be checked, and increased growth in other directions may take place to supply the defect. Thus the condition known as scaphocephaly is found associated with absence of the sagittal suture, where, the transverse growth being prevented, a great increase takes place in the vertical, and especially the longitudinal directions, giving the vault of the skull a boat-like form. The oblique deformity or plagioceplialy also is met with in connection with premature fusion of one half of the coronal or lambdoid suture, but independently of this a precisely similar deformity may be induced by rickets, wry-neck, or external pressure. (See Huxley, loc. c\t.; Virchow, “ Gesammelte Abhandlungen,” 1856 ; J. Barnard Davis, “ On Synostotic Crania,” 1865 ; W. Turner in Nat. Hist. Rev., 1864.) Another series of irregular forms of skull is that produced by pressure artificially applied in early life, and is best exemplified from among those American tribes who compress the heads of their children by means of an apparatus of boards and bandages : it is also illustrated in a slighter degree by individual instances in which undue pressure has been employed unintentionally. (Gosse, “ Essai sur les Deformations artificielles du Crane,” 1855.) Posthumous distortions likewise occur in long-buried skulls, subjected to the combined influence of pressure and moisture. (Wilson, “ Prehistoric Annals of Scotland.”) IV.—BONES OF THE UPPER, LIMB. The upper limb consists of the shoulder, the arm, brachium, the fore- arm, antibrachium, and the hand, manus. The bones of the shoulder are the clavicle and scapula, which together form the pectoral arch or shoulder girdle ; in the arm is the humerus ; in the forearm are the radius and ulna; and in the hand three groups of bones, viz., the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. THE CLAVICLE. The clavicle or collar-bone extends outwards and backwards, from the summit of the sternum to the acromion process of the scapula, and con- nects the upper limb with the trunk. It is curved like an italic f: the internal curve has its convexity directed forwards, and extends over two- thirds of the length of the bone; the outer curve is concave forwards, corresponding to the hollow between the chest and shoulder. The clavicle is broad towards its scapular end, being compressed fromS5 THE CLAVICLE. above downwards, but in the extent of its inner curve it is more or less prismatic or cylindrical. In its description, four surfaces may be dis- tinguished, together with the two extremities. Fig. 67.—The right clavi- cle. (A. T.) ts A, from above ; B, from below. 1. sternal end; 2, acromial end ; 2', facet for articula- tion with the acromion ; 3, groove on the lower surface for the subclavius muscle ; 4, conoid tubercle and trapezoid line; 5, rough mark for the attachment of the costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament of the deltoid muscle. Fig. 67. 6, impression of the pectoralis major; 7, that The superior surface is broadest in its outer part; it is principally sub- cutaneous, but near the inner extremity presents a slight roughness, marking the clavicular attachment of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. The anterior surface opposite the outer curve is reduced to a mere rough border, from which the deltoid muscle takes origin, but in the inner half of its extent is broadened out into an uneven space more or less distinctly separated from the inferior surface, and giving attachment to the pecto- ralis major muscle. The posterior surface is broadest at the inner ex- tremity, and smooth in the whole extent of the internal curvature; but towards its outer extremity it forms a thick border which gives attach- ment to the trapezius muscle. About the middle of this surface is the aperture of a small canal for the medullary artery, directed outwards. On the inferior surface, at the sternal end, is a rough impression for the attachment of the costo-clavicular ligament; more externally is a groove, extending over the middle third of the bone, in which the subclavius muscle is inserted; beyond this, projecting on the posterior border at the junction of the middle and outer thirds, is a broad tubercle, conoid turbercle, to which the conoid division of the coraco-clavicular ligament is attached, and from which the rough, generally raised, trapezoid line, for the trapezoid part of the same ligament, is directed outwards and for- wards towards the end of the bone. The sternal end is the thickest part of the clavicle. It presents a somewhat triangular concavo-convex surface, with its most prominent angle directed downwards and backwards. The scapular end is broad and flat, and articulates by a small oval surface with the acromion. The interior of the clavicle contains coarse cancellated tissue in its whole extent. Towards the middle the spaces sometimes widen out, and unite so as to form an irregular medullary cavity. The clavicle is subcutaneous to a greater or less extent in its whole length ; the most prominent part is about the centre, corresponding to the intermuscular intervals, above between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, and below between the pectoralis major and deltoid (supra- and infraclavicular fossa’). The outer extremity is a little higher than the upper surface of the acromion against which it fits, and forms a prominence on the upper part of the shoulder.33 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. THE SCAPULA. The scapula is placed upon the upper and back part of the thorax, and forms the posterior part of the shoulder-girdle. It is not attached directly to the trunk, but is articulated -with the outer end of the clavicle, and from it is suspended the humerus in the shoulder-joint. It consists of a triangular blade or body, supporting two large processes. The surfaces of the body are anterior and posterior ; the borders superior, internal or vertebral, and external or axillary ; the angles superior, inferior, and external; the last, being the thickest part Fig CS a. Fig. 68 b. Fig. 68 a.—Right Scapula from behind. (A.T.) % 1, head and glenoid cavity ; 2, superior angle ; 3, inferior angle ; 4, spine ; 4, at the Base, triangular smooth surface of the spine ; 5, acromion ; 6, coracoid process ; 7, supra- spinous fossa : 7', infraspinous fossa ; 1 to 2, superior border ; 2 to 3, vertebral border ; 1 to 3, axillary border ; 10, oval surface of origin of the teres major muscle ; 11, oblique impression for the teres minor muscle ; 12, the rough ridge where the long head of the triceps rises; 13, suprascapular notch ; 14, neck, below the great scapular notch. Fig. 68 Right scapula from before. (A.T.) ^ 1, 5, 6, and 13, as in fig. 68 a ; 5' articular facet on the acromion for the clavicle ; 8, subscapular fossa ; 9, 9', surfaces giving attachment to the upper and lower parts of the serratus magnus muscle. of the bone, and bearing the large articular surface, is distinguished as the head, and is supported upon a neck. The processes are an anterior, coracoid process, and a posterior, the spine, which is produced into the acromion. The anterior surface or venter, looking also considerably inwards, presents a concavity, the sub scapular fossa, occupied by the subscapulaiis muscle, and marked by oblique prominent lines converging upwards and outwards, which give attachment to the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Separated from this concavity, are two smaller fiat surfaces;THE SCAPULA. S7 one in front of the superior angle and another at the inferior angle, and these, together with a line running close to the vertebral border and uniting them, give attachment to the serratus magnus muscle. The posterior surface or dorsum is divided by the spine into two unequal parts, the upper of which is the supraspinous fossa, the lower is the infraspinous fossa. The supraspinous fossa is occupied by the supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous fossa, much the larger, presents in the middle a convexity corresponding to the concavity of the venter, and outside this a concavity bounded by the prominent axillary border. It is marked near the inner border by short lines, corresponding to tendinous septa of the infraspinatus muscle, and is occupied by that muscle in the greater part of its extent. Adjacent to the axillary border, in its middle third, is a narrow interval giving attachment to the teres minor muscle; and beneath this, extending over the inferior angle, is a raised oval surface, from which the teres major arises. These spaces are separated from each other and from that of the infra- spinatus muscle by lines which give attachment to aponeurotic septa. The spine of the scapula is a massive triangular plate of bone project- ing backwards and upwards from the dorsum. Commencing at the internal border near its upper fourth, it extends outwards and a little upwards to the middle of the neck of the scapula, and becoming gradually elevated towards its external extremity, it turns forwards and is continued into the acromion process. The upper and lower surfaces, smooth and concave, form part respectively of the supra- and infraspinous fossae. It presents two unattached borders, the more prominent of which is subcutaneous and arises from the vertebral border of the bone by a smooth, flat, triangular surface, over which the tendon of the inferior part of the trapezius muscle glides, as it passes to be inserted into a rough thickening beyond. In the rest of its extent this border is rough, broad, and serpentine, giving attachment by its superior margin to the trapezius, and by its inferior to the deltoid muscle. The external border, short, smooth, and concave, arises near the neck of the scapula, and is continuous with the under surface of the acromion, enclosing the great scapular notch between it and the neck of the bone. The acromion process, projecting outwards and forwards from the extremity of the spine over the glenoid cavity, forms the summit of the shoulder. It is an expanded process, compressed from above downwards. Its superior surface, rough and subcutaneous, is continuous with the prominent border of the spine ; its inferior surface, smooth and concave, is continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine. On its internal border anteriorly is a narrow oval surface for articulation with the clavicle. The head bears the articular surface for the humerus, known as the glenoid cavity. This is a slightly concave surface, looking outwards, forwards, and slightly upwards. It is pyriform in shape, with the narrow end uppermost, and gently incurved in front. Its rim is flat- tened, and in the recent state is covered by a fibrous band, the glenoid ligament, which deepens its concavity ; at its upper extremity is a small mark indicating the attachment of the long head of the biceps muscle. The neck, supporting the head, is most distinct posteriorly, where it forms with the spine the great scapular notch, leading from the supra-88 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. spinous to the infraspinous fossa; its position is also marked superiorly by the notch in the upper border. The coracoid process, thick, strong, and hook-like, rises for a short distance ahnost vertically from the upper border of the head, and then bending at a right angle, is directed forwards and slightly outwards. Its superior surface, towards the base, is rough and uneven, giving origin to the coraco-clavicular ligament; on its outer border is attached the coraco-acromial ligament, at its extremity the coraco-brachialis muscle and short head of the biceps, and on the inner edge the pectoralis minor. The borders of the scapula are three in number. The superior border is the shortest; it extends from the superior angle outwards and down- wards to the coracoid processs, at the base of which it presents a rounded suprascapular notch, which is converted into a foramen by a ligament or occasionally by a spiculum of bone, and is traversed by the suprascapular nerve. The axillary border is the thickest; at the upper end, below the glenoid cavity, it presents a strong rough mark, above an inch long, to which the long head of the triceps muscle is attached; and below this there is usually a slight groove, where the dorsal branch of the sub- scapular artery passes backwards ; on the ventral aspect of this edge in the greater part of its length is a marked groove in which a considerable part of the subscapularis muscle arises. The vertebral border, called also the base, is the longest of the three, and is divisible into three parts, viz., a short one opposite the triangular surface of origin of the promi- nent border of the spine, and the portions above and below that space, both of which incline outwards as they recede from the spine. The upper part gives attachment to the levator anguli scapulae muscle, the middle to the rhomboideus minor, and the lower to the rhomboideus major muscle. The body of the scapula is in great part, thin and translucent, and contains little cancellated tissue. The head, the coracoid and acromion processes, the prominent border of the spine, and the thick rib along the axillary border, derive their greater thickness and strength from in- creased thickness of the compact bony substance in some parts, and from cancellated tissue in others. Vascular foramina pierce the upper and lower surfaces of the spine, and others are to be found on the anterior surface of the bone, near the neck. The subcutaneous parts of the scapula are the free border of the spine in nearly the whole of its length, the upper surface of the acromion, and a small part of the vertebral border in its lower half; the superior and axillary borders are entirely concealed by the muscles. The coracoid process projects in front beyond the clavicle, and can be readily felt inside the head of the humerus, but can be seen only in very thin persons. With the arm hanging by the side the scapula covers the ribs from the second to the seventh inclusive, sometimes the eighth, and the root of the spine is on a level with the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines ; but it is to be remembered that the bone changes its position with every movement of the arm. THE HUMERUS. The humerus or arm-bone extends from the shoulder to the elbow, where it articulates with both bones of the forearm. It is divisible into the superior extremity, including the head, neck, and great and small89 THE HUMERUS. Fig. 69.—Right humerus from before. (A. T.) ^ Fig. 69. tuberosities; the shaft; and the inferior extremity, including the external and internal condyles, and the inferior articular surface. In general form it is subcylindrical and slightly twisted. 1, head ; 2, small tuberosity ; 3, great tuberosity ; 4, anatomical neck ; 5, bicipital groove, the line is at the level of the so-called surgical neck ; 6, inner edge of the bicipital groove, and mark of attachment of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles ; 7, pectoral ridge, running down into 7', the deltoid impression ; 8, spiral groove ; 9, external, 9', internal supracondylar ridge ; 10, trochlear articular surface ; 11, capitellum ; 12, internal condyle ; 13, external condyle ; 14, coronoid fossa. The superior extremity is the thickest part of the bone. The head is a large hemispherical articular elevation, directed inwards, upwards, and backwards. The ncclc, as described by ana- tomists, is the short portion of bone which sup- ports the head ; interiorly, it passes into the shaft ; superiorly, it is a mere groove between the head and the great tuberosity. The great tuberosity is a thick projection, continued up- wards from the external part of the shaft, and reaching nearly to the level of the upper margin of the head ; it is surmounted by three flat sur- faces, the uppermost of which gives attachment to the supraspinatus muscle, the loivest to the teres minor, and the intermediate one to the infraspinatus muscle. Separated from the great tuberosity by the commencement of the bicipital groove is the small tuberosity, oval and promi- nent ; it looks forwai’ds and gives attachment to the subscapularis muscle. The shaft or body, thick and cylindrical supe- riorly, becomes expanded transversely and some- what three-sided inferiorly. It is divided into anterior and posterior faces by lateral lines, slightly marked in the upper part, but more prominent in the lower, where they pass into the supracondylar ridges. Superiorly on its anterior aspect is the bicipital groove, so named from lodging the long tendon of the biceps muscle : this groove, commencing between the tuberosities, descends with an inclination inwards, and is bounded by two rough ridges, the ex- ternal and more prominent of which, pectoral ridge, gives attachment to the pectoralis major muscle, the internal to the latissimus dorsi and teres major. Towards the middle of the shaft, on the inner lateral line, is a rough linear mark where the coraco-brachialis muscle is inserted, and lower down there is a medullary foramen directed downwards into the interior of the bone. On the external part of the shaft, near its middle, in a line anteriorly with the pectoral ridge, is a large, rough, and uneven surface, of a triangular shape, the impression of the deltoid muscle. Below90 BOXES OF THE UPPER LIMB. this the ridge is continued into a smooth elevation which, descending on the front of the shaft to the inferior extremity, separates an external from an internal surface; while at the sides these are separated from the flat posterior surface by the supracondylar ridges, which descend, the external more prominent than the internal, to the condyle on each side. About the middle of the shaft externally, a broad Fig. 70. depression, the spiral groove, winds downwards and forwards, limited above by the deltoid impression and below by the external supracondylar ridge, and lodges the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda vessels. Fig. 70.—Right humerus from behind. (A. T.) J 1, 3, 8, & 10, the same as in Fig. 69 ; 15, is placed above the olecranon fossa. The inferior extremity is much enlarged laterally, flattened from before backwards, and is curved slightly forwards. Projecting on either side are the external and internal condyles (the epicondgle and epitrochlea of Chaussier), the internal of which is much more prominent than the external, and is slightly inclined backwards. The inferior articular surface is divided into two parts. The external part, articulating with the radius, consists of a rounded eminence directed forwards, called the capitellwn, and a groove internal to it; it does not extend to the posterior surface. The internal part, the trochlea, articulates with the ulna, and extends completely round from the anterior to the posterior surface of the bone ; it is grooved in the middle like the surface of a pulley, and is somewhat broader behind than in front; anteriorly, its margins are inclined downwards and inwards ; posteriorly, up- wards and outwards, so that, seen from behind, it occupies the middle part of the bone. Anteriorly, the internal margin of the trochlea is the more prominent, and forms a convexity parallel to the groove ; posteriorly, the external margin is slightly more prominent. Above the trochlea posteriorly is a large and deep pit, the olecranon fossa, which receives the olecranon process of the ulna in ex- tension of the forearm; and above it anteriorly, separated from the olecranon fossa only by a thin lamina of bone, is the much smaller coronoid fossa, which receives the coronoid process in flexion. Above the capitellum is a shallow depression, into which the head of the radius is pressed in complete flexion. The humerus, in its natural position, with the arm hanging by the side, has a slight inclination from above downwards and inwards, and is also in a condition of what may be termed strong internal rotation, i.e., the so-called anterior surface looks very much inwards, and the internal condyle is directed more backwards than inwards. The bone is almost completely covered by muscles ; the head is thickly covered by theTHE ULNA. 01 deltoid, which it pushes up, and thus gives roundness to the shoulder ; the shaft is entirely surrounded ; both condyles are subcutaneous, the internal being prominent, whilst the appearance of the external varies as the forearm is moved. When the elbow is bent the capitellum projects under its muscular covering and forms the rounded prominence outside the point of the elbow. Varieties.—A small hook-like process, with its point directed downwards, is not unfrequently found in front of the internal condylar ridge, the supracon- dylar process. From its extremity, a fibrous band, giving origin to the pronator radii teres muscle, passes to the internal condyle, and through the arch thus formed passes the median nerve, accompanied frequently by the brachial artery, or by a large branch rising from it. This process represents a portion of the bone enclosing a foramen in carnivorous animals. (See Struthers, Edin. Med. Joum., 1848 ; Gruber, “ Canalis supracondyloideus humeri,” Mem. de l’Acad. Imp. de St. Petersburg, 1859, p. 57.) The thin plate between the olecranon and coronoid fossae is sometimes perforated (supratrochlear foramen'). THE ULNA. The ulna is the internal of the two bones of the forearm. It is longer than the radius by the extent of the olecranon process. It is inclined downwards and outwards from the humerus in such a direc- tion that a straight line passing from the great tuberosity of the humerus downwards through the capitellum would touch the lower end of the ulna. The ulna articulates with the humerus and the radius : in the natural skeleton it is not in contact with the carpal bones, being ex- cluded from the wrist-joint by an interarticular fibro-cartilage. The superior extremity is of large size, and presents for articulation with the humerus a large articular surface, the great sigmoid cavity, which looks forwards and is bounded in its posterior and upper part by the olecranon, a thick process continued upwards from the shaft, and in its lower part by the coronoid process, which projects forwards. The great sigmoid cavity is concave from above downwards, and is convex from side to side, being traversed by a vertical ridge. The part external to this ridge is broad and convex above, while the part internal to the ridge is broad and concave below: a slight constriction, and sometimes a groove of division, occurs across the middle of the cavity. Continuous with the great is the small sigmoid cavity, a small articular surface on the outer side of the base of the coronoid process, concave from before backwards, and articulating with the cylindrical part of the head of the radius. Superiorly the olecranon is broad and uneven, termi- nating in front in an acute process or beak, which overhangs the great sigmoid cavity, and which in extension of the elbow passes into the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and behind in a rectangular prominence or tuberosity, which forms the point of the elbow, and gives attachment to the triceps extensor muscle. The posterior surface of the olecranon is subcutaneous and continuous with the posterior margin of the shaft of the ulna. The extremity of the coronoid process is sharp and prominent, and is received during flexion into the coronoid fossa of the humerus : its superior surface forms part of the surface of the great sigmoid cavity : the inferior surface rises gradually from the anterior surface of the bone, and is covered by a large triangular roughness which gives insertion to the brachialis anticus muscle.BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 92 The 1'ody or shaft in the upper three-fourths of its extent is three- sided, and presents a slight curve with the convexity backwards, but near the lower extremity it is slender, and more cylindrical. The anterior surface is grooved in the upper two-thirds, where the flexor profundus digitorum muscle takes origin, and in its lower end has an Fig. 71. Fig. 72. Fig. 71.—Right ulna from before. Fig. 72.—Right ulna from behind. (A.T.) ^ 1, point or beak of the olecranon ; 2, tuberosity of the olecranon ; 3, end of the coronoid process ; 4, great sigmoid cavity ; 5, lesser sigmoid cavity, and below it the surface for the supinator brevis muscle ; 6, external or interosseous border : 7, lower ex- tremity or head ; 8, styloid process ; 9, rough surface of insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle ; below 10, the oblique line marking the attachment of the pronator quadratus muscle; 11, triangular surface for the anconeus muscle ; 12, inner part of the posterior surface, to the right of which the de- pressions for the extensor muscles of the thumb occupy the posterior surface. oblique line limiting the attachment of the pronator quadratus. Above the middle is a foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards. The internal surface is smooth and convex ; in the upper two- thirds giving attaclnnent to the flexor profundus muscle, in the lower third sub- cutaneous. The posterior surface, more uneven, looks outwards and backwards; an oblique ridge descending from the hinder end of the small sigmoid cavity, limits a triangular area, which extends over the outer side of the olecranon and gives attachment to the anconeus muscle ; below this a longitudinal line divides the surface into an inner jfortion, smooth, and covered by the extensor carpi ulnaris, and an outer part, more irregular, and impressed by the extensor muscles of the thumb and index fingers; in front of the surface for the an- coneus, and immediately below the small sigmoid cavity, is a triangular excavated surface occupied by the origin of the supinator brevis muscle. Of the three borders, the anterior is thick and rounded ; the pos- terior is sinuously curved, smooth, and prominent in the middle third ; the external is sharp, and gives attachment to the interosseous liga- ment. The inferior extremity presents a rounded head, from the inner and back part of which a short cylindrical eminence, the styloid process, projects downwards, giving attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The head bears two articular surfaces, an inferior, kidney-shaped and flattened, upon which the triangular fibro-cartilage of the wrist plays ; and a lateral, narrow and convex, which is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The head and the styloid process arc separated posteriorly by a groove, which is traversed by the tendon93 TIIE RADIUS. of the extensor carpi nlnaris ; and interiorly by a depression, into which the triangular fibro-cartilage is inserted. The ulna is placed in its whole length under the skin at the back of the forearm. The subcutaneous tract comprises the triangular surface on the back of the olecranon, the posterior border of the shaft, which lies at the bottom of the longitudinal groove between the flexor and extensor muscles, and, in the lower third, a narrow strip of the internal surface leading down to the styloid process ; the latter projects at the inner and posterior part of the wrist. THE RADIUS.* The radius is the external of the two bones of the forearm, and extends from the humerus to the carpus. It articulates with the humerus, the ulna, the scaphoid, and the semilunar bones. The superior extremity, or head, is disc-shaped, with a smooth ver- tical margin. It presents on its summit a depression, which articulates with the capitellum of the humerus, and is surrounded by a convex part, broadest internally where it glides upon the groove internal to the capitellum. The smooth, short, cylindrical surface of the vertical margin, likewise broadest internally, rotates in the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna, and within the orbicular ligament. The head is supported on a constricted portion, named the neck. The shaft or body is slightly curved, with the convexity directed outwards and backwards. On its internal aspect superiorly, where it is continuous with the neck, is the bicipital tuberosity, to the posterior rough portion of which is attached the tendon of the biceps muscle. Below the bicipital tuberosity the shaft presents three surfaces, of which the external is only indistinctly marked off from the others by smooth, rounded anterior and posterior borders, while the anterior and posterior surfaces are separated by a sharp, prominent internal border, which gives attachment to the interosseous membrane. The external surface is convex transversely as well as longitudinally ; it is marked near the middle by a rough impression about one inch and a half long, which gives insertion to the pronator radii teres. The anterior surface is limited above by the prominent oblique line of the radius, running from the lower part of the tubercle downwards and outwards to form the anterior border; below this it is grooved longitudinally for the flexor longus pollicis, and at the lower end it is expanded, and presents a fiat impression for the insertion of the pronator quadratus : above the middle is the foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards into the bone. The posterior surface presents slight oblique impressions of the extensor muscles of the thumb. The loiver extremity of the radius, broad and thick, presents iuferiorly a large surface, which articulates with the carpus, and internally a small one, which articulates with the ulna. The carpal articular surface, slightly concave, is divided by a line into a quadrilateral internal part, which articulates with the semilunar bone, and a triangular external part, which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The ulnar articular surface is placed at a right angle with the inferior surface ; it is concave from before backwards, forming the sigmoid cavity, which plays over the * In anatomical description the forearm is supposed to he placed in supination, with the thumb directed outwards and the palm of the hand looking forwards.S4 BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. rounded lower end of the ulna. At the outer part of the inferior surface the styloid process, projects downward, stout and pyramidal, giving attachment to the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint, while the anterior and posterior margins are likewise rough and pro- minent for other ligaments. On its external and posterior aspects the Fig. 73. Fig. 74. Fig. 73.—Right radius prom before. Fig. 74.—Right radius from behind. (A.T.) \ 1, head, showing the hollow above for the humerus, and the vertical surface surrounding it for the ulnar articulation ; 2, neck ; 3, tubercle ; 4, is opposite to the oblique line ; 5, interosseous ridge ; the shaded part near 5 marks the slight hollow in which the flexor longus pollicis muscle lies ; 6, carpal articular surface ; 7, styloid process ; 8, sigmoid cavity of the radius ; 9, mark of the attachment of the pronator radii teres; 10 and 11, oblique im- pressions of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; between 7 and 8, grooves for the tendons of the extensor muscles. inferior extremity of the radius is marked by grooves, which transmit the extensor tendons. Thus, on the external border, is a flat groove directed downwards and forwards, which lodges the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; and on the posterior surface are three grooves, the middle one of which, oblique and narrow, and with prominent borders, lodges the extensor secundi in- ternodii pollicis ; while of the two others, which are Abroad and shallow, the external, subdivided by a slight mark, gives passage to the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, and the internal transmits the extensor communis digitoriun and extensor indicis. Immediately above the first-men- tioned groove on the outer side is a triangular rough mark, into which the tendon of the supinator longus is inserted. The. radius is for the most part deeply placed. The head and shaft are entirely covered by muscles ; at the lower end the styloid process comes to the surface between the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb, and forms a projection on the outer side of the wrist, lower down than the styloid process of the ulna. THE CARPUS. The carpus is composed of eight short bones, which are disposed in two rows, four in each. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones which constitute the first or superior row are named scaphoid, semilunar, pyramided, and pisiform; those of the second or inferior row, are the trapezium, trapezoid, os maynum, and unciform. The dorsal surface of the carpus is convex, the palmar is concave from side to side, the concavity being bounded by four prominences, one at the outer and one at the inner extremity of each row. TheFig. 75. 95 THE CARPUS. Fig. 75.—Semi-diagrammatic view op anterior annular ligament is stretched across between these prominences, so as to form a canal for the transmission of the flexor tendons. The superior surfaces of the scaphoid, semilunar, and pyramidal bones form, when in apposition, a continuous convexity which corre- sponds with the concavity presented by the radius and the triangular fibro-cartilage, while the pisiform bone is attached in front of the pyramidal, with which alone it articulates. The line of articulation THE RIGHT CARPUS AND PART OP THE METACARPAL BONES, PROM BEFORE, THE CARPAL BONES BEING SLIGHTLY SEPARATED TO SHOW TIIE MODE OP THEIR CONNECTION WITH EACH OTHER. (A.T. ) § 1, scaphoid bone ; 2, semilunar ; 3, pyramidal ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium, the figure is placed upon the ridge, to the inside of which is the groove for the tendon of flexor carpi radialis ; 6, trapezoid ; 7, os magnum ; 8, unciform, the figure is placed on the unciform process. The articulation of the os magnum with the fourth metacarpal bone is represented somewhat too large. between the superior and inferior rows is concavo-convex from side to side, the trapezium, trapezoid and os magnum bounding a cavity which lodges the external part of the scaphoid, and the os magnum and unci- form rising up in a convexity, which is received into a hollow formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and pyramidal, bones. The scaphoid bone, the largest and most external of the first row, lies with its long axis directed outwards and downwards. It has a concave surface, which looks downwards and inwards, and articulates with the os magnum ; on the opposite side are two convex articular surfaces, an upper for the radius, and a lower for the trapezium and trapezoid bones of the second row ; these approach so near to one another behind, that the dorsal surface is reduced to a narrow grooved transverse strip, to which the posterior ligaments of the wrist are attached. At the inner extremity is a small crescentic surface for articulation with the semi- lunar bone ; while the outer end is produced into a stout conical tubercle, which projects forwards and gives attachment to the annular ligament. The scaphoid articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, the semilunar, trapezium, trapezoid, and os magnum. The semilunar bone, irregularly cubic, is characterized by the deep con- cavity from before backwards of its inferior surface, which rests on the head of the os magnum, and commonly also by a bevelled edge slightly on the unciform bone. Its external surface is crescentic and vertical, and articulates with the scaphoid hone ; its internal surface looks down- wards and inwards, is much deeper and narrower than the external, and articulates with the pyramidal. The convex superior surface, which articulates with the radius, extends like that of the scaphoid, farther backwards than forwards, and lienee the anterior free surface is deeper than tha posterior. The semilunar articulates with five bones, viz., the radius, scaphoid, pyramidal, os magnum, and unciform. The pyramidal or cuneiform bone is situated with its blunted apex directed downwards and inwards ; the base lias the shape of a half-oval.9G BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. and articulates with, the semilunar bone. There are three surfaces ; the inferior, concavo-convex from without inwards, articulates with the unciform bone ; the anterior is distinguished by having a smooth circular facet on its inner half for articulation with the pisiform bone ; and the supero-posterior, presents at the base a small articular facet entering the wrist-joint, but is for the most part rough for the attachment of ligaments. The pyramidal articulates with three bones, viz., the semi- lunar, pisiform, and unciform. The pisiform bone lies on a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it possesses an articular surface, which rests on the pyramidal bone. The mass of the bone is so inclined from this surface downwards and outwards, that the pisiform bone of one hand is distin- guishable from that of the other. The trapezium is the most external of the second row of carpal bones. It presents a rhombic form when seen in its dorsal or palmar aspect, but with the lower angle much produced and truncated. Its anterior surface is marked by a vertical groove traversed by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle, and external to the groove by a ridge, one of the four prominences which 'give attachment to the anterior annular ligament. Of the internal sides of the rhomb, the superior articulates with the scaphoid and the inferior with the trapezoid ; while a small facet on the prominent lower angle is for the second metacarpal bone. Of the external sides the superior is free, and the inferior presents a smooth surface, convex from behind forwards, and concave from without inwards, which articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is separated by a small interval from the surface for the second metacarpal bone. The trapezium articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezoid, and first and second metacarpals. The trapezoid bone is considerably smaller than the trapezium. Its longest diameter is from before backwards. Its posterior free surface is much larger than the anterior. The external inferior angle of the anterior surface is distinguished by being prolonged a little backwards between the articular surfaces for the trapezium and second metacarpal bone. The superior surface articulates with the scaphoid ; the external with the trapezium ; the internal with the os magnum; and the inferior by a large surface convex from side to side with the second metacarpal bone. The trapezoid articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezium, os magnum, and second metacarpal bone. The os magnum is the largest of the carpal bones. In form it is elongated vertically, rectangular interiorly, rounded superiorly. The upper extremity or head articulates above with the semilunar bone by a convex surface, extending further down behind than in front, and pro- longed on the outer side for the scaphoid. A neck is formed beneath by depressions on the anterior and posterior surfaces. The anterior surface of the bone is much narrower than the posterior. The posterior surface projects dowmwards at its internal inferior angle. On the outer side beneath the surface for the scaphoid is a short surface for the trapezoid bone ; and on the inner side is a vertically elongated surface which articulates with the unciform bone. Interiorly this bone articulates by three distinct surfaces, of which the middle is much the largest, with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. The os magnum articulates with seven bones, viz., the scaphoid, semilunar, trapezoid, unciform, and second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones.METACARPAL BONES. 97 The unciform bone is readily distinguished by the large hook-like process projecting forwards and curved slightly outwards on its anterior surface. Seen from the front or behind, it has a triangular form. Its ex- ternal surface is vertical, and articulates with the os magnum ; its inferior surface is divided into two facets which articulate with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; its superior surface, meeting the pyramidal, is concavo-convex, inclines upwards and outwards towards the head of the os magnum, and is separated internally by a rough border from the in- ferior surface. The unciform articulates with five bones, viz., the os magnum, semilunar, pyramidal, and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones. THE METACARPUS. The metacarpus, the part of the hand which supports the fingers, con- sists of five long bones, diverging slightly from each other, and which are numbered from without inwards. Fig. 76.—The eight hand from before. Fig. 76. (A. T.) i s, scaphoid ; l, semilunar ; c, pyramidal; p, pisiform: t, trapezium ; next to it the trapezoid, and then the os magnum, both not lettered ; u, unciform. I to V, the metacarpal bones ; 1, 3, first and second phalanges of the thumb; 1, 2, 3, the first, second, and third phalanges of the little finger, and similarly for the other three fingers, not marked ; * one of the sesamoid bones of the thumb seen sideways. The metacarpal bones are placed in a segment of an arch transversely, and being at the same time slightly curved longitudinally, they present a concavity directed forwards. They are terminated at their carpal extremities by expanded bases of different forms, and at the digital ends by large rounded heads. The first metacarpal bone is broader and shorter than the others. The second is the longest of all, the third, fourth, and fifth decrease regularly in length, according to their position from without inwards. The shaft of the first metacarpal bone is somewhat compressed from before backwards ; the dorsal surface is slightly convex ; on the palmar aspect is a rounded longitudinal ridge, placed nearer to the inner than the outer border. The shafts of the others are three-sided, presenting a surface towards the back of the hand, and towards the palm a smooth margin between the two lateral surfaces. They are most slender immediately beyond the carpal extremity, and become gradually thicker towards the head. On the dorsal aspect of each is a triangular surface, bounded by lines which, proceeding from the sides of the head, pass upwards and converge in the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones opposite the middle of the carpal extremity, and in the fifth towards its inner side. The heads articulate with the proximal phalanges Their smooth,BOXES OF THE UPrEK LIMB. 98 rounded surfaces are broader, and extend farther, on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones ; and on each side is a tubercle with a hollow below it for the attachment of the lateral ligament. The carpal extremity presents distinctive peculiarities in each meta- carpal bone. That of the first has a saddle-shaped articular surface, con- cave from before backwards, and convex from side to side, which articu- lates with the trapezium ; and externally a slight prominence, to which the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is attached. The second is notched to receive the trapezoid bone : on the radial side is a small facet for the trapezium ; the more prominent ulnar lip articulates superiorly by a narrow surface with the os magnum, and internally with the third meta- carpal bone. The third bone articulates superiorly with the os magnum, and on the sides with the contiguous metacarpal bones ; at its posterior and outer angle it forms a projection upwards, styloid process. The fourth articulates principally with the unciform bone above, but also by a small facet at the posterior and outer corner with the os magnum ; on its radial side arc two small surfaces, and on the ulnar side one, for articula- tion with the adjacent metacarpal bones. The fifth articulates superiorly with the unciform bone by means of a saddle-shaped surface directed slightly outwards, and externally with the fourth metacarpal bone, while on its ulnar side it presents, a rough and prominent tuberosity. Fig. 77 Bight hand seen from behind. (A. T.) i The indications are the same as in the pre- ceding figure. THE DIGITAL PHALANGES. The phalanges (internodia) are four- teen in number ; three for each finger, but only two for the thumb. Those of the first roiu are slightly curved like the metacarpal bones. Their dorsal surfaces are smooth and trans- versely convex ; the palmar are flat from side to side, and bounded by rough margins, which give insertion to the fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons. Their proximal extremities are thick, and articulate each by a transversely oval concave surface with the corre- sponding metacarpal bone. Their distal extremities, smaller and more compressed antero-posteriorly, are di- vided by a shallow groove into two condyles. Those of the middle row are four in number. Smaller than those of the preceding set, they resemble them in form, with this difference, that their proximal extremities present, on the articular surface, a slight middle elevation and two lateral depressions, adapted to articulate with the condyles of the first phalanges. The terminal or ungual phalanges, five in number, have proximal extremities similar to those of the middle row, but with a depression in front, where the flexor tendon is inserted. They taper towards their FiS. 77.Fig. 78.—Ossification of the clavicle Fig. 78. 99 OSSIFICATION OF SHOULDER BONES. Fig. 79. somewhat flattened and expanded free extremities, which are rough and raised round the margins and upon the palmar aspect in the ungual process. Sesamoid bones.—A pair of sesamoid bones is placed in the palmar wall of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; and similar nodules, single or double, are sometimes found in the corresponding joint of one or more of the other fingers, most frequently of the index and little fingers. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. With the exception of the clavicle, all the bones of the upper limb begin to ossify in cartilage. The clavicle begins to ossify before any other bone in the body. Its ossifica- tion commences before the deposition of cartilage in connection with it, but after- wards progresses in cartilage as well as in fibrous substance. It is formed from (R. Quain). a, the clavicle of a fcetus at birth, osseous in the shaft, 1, and cartilaginous at both ends. b, clavicle of a man of about twenty-three years of age ; the shaft, 1, fully ossified to the acromial end ; the sternal epiphysis, 2, is represented rather thicker than natural. one principal centre, appearing about the Gth week, to which is added an epiphysis at the sternal end. The epiphysis appears from the 18th to the 20th year and is united to the shaft about the 25th year. The scapula is ossified from two primary centres, one for the body, the scapula D 22 years. Fig. 79.—Ossification of the scapula (R. Quain). 1, scapula proper, including the body and spine; 2, coracoid ossification ; 3, 5, nuclei of acromion ; 4, epiphysis at the lower angle ; 6, epiphysis on vertebral border. In A, ossification has commenced in the coracoid process. In B the coracoid process (represented as too little ossified in the figure) is now partially united at its base, and centres have appeared in the acromion and at the lower angle. In C, a second point has appeared in the acromion, and a long epiphysis on the vertebral border. In D, the acromion and the epiphysis of the vertebral border are still separate. H 2BONES OP TIIE UPPEE LIMB. 100 proper, the other for the coracoid process, which represents the independent and often largely developed coracoid bone of the monotremata and lower vertebrates. The nucleus for the body appears near the head about the 7th or 8th week. This centre forms a triangular plate of bone near the upper margin of which, about the 3rd month, the spine appears as a slight ridge. At birth the coracoid and acromion processes, the base and inferior angle, the edges of the spine and of the glenoid cavity are cartilaginous. The nucleus of the coracoid process appears in the first year, and this forms also a small portion of the glenoid cavity at the upper end. The coracoid process joins the body about the age of puberty, and at this time epiphyses make their appearance. In the acromion two, sometimes three, nuclei appear between the 11th and 16th years; they soon coalesce and the resulting epiphysis is united to the spine from the 22nd to the 25th year. The cartilage of the base, which it may be noticed corresponds to a more largely Fig. 80. Fig. 80.—Posterior aspect op the sternum and right shoulder girdle prom a pcetus op about four months (Flower after Parker). 1£ The dotted parts are cartilaginous ; ost, omosternum, afterwards becoming the inter- articular fibro-cartilage; pc, precoracoid of Parker; a, acromion ; cl, shaft of clavicle ; mss, mesoscapular segment of Parker; c, coracoid ; gc, glenoid cavity; gb, glenoid border; cb, coracoid border; a/, anterior or supraspinous fossa ; pf, posterior or infraspinous fossa ; ss, suprascapular border. developed permanent cartilage or bone, suprascapular, found in many animals, becomes the seat of ossification about the 16th to the 18th year, by the appear- ance of a nucleus at the inferior angle, and thereafter of a line of osseous deposit extending upwards throughout its length. A thin lamina is also added along the upper surface of the coracoid process, and occasionally another at the margin of the glenoid cavity. These epiphyses are united about the 25th year. In the humerus a nucleus appears near the middle of the shaft in the 8th week. It gradually extends, until at birth only the ends of the bone are cartilaginous. About the beginning of the 2nd year the nucleus of the head appears, and during the 3rd year that for the great tuberosity. The lesser tuberosity is either ossified from a distinct nucleus which appears in the 5th year, or by extension of ossification from the great tuberosity. These nuclei unite together about the 5th year to form an epiphysis, which is not united to the shaft till the 20th year. In the cartilage of the lower end of the bone four separate nuclei are seen, the first appearing in the capitellum in the 3rd year. The nucleus of the internal condyle appears in the 5th year, that of the trochlea in the 11th or 12th year, and that of the external condyle in the 13th or 14th year. The nucleus of the internal condyle forms a distinct epiphysis which unites with the shaft in the 18th year;OSSIFICATION OF THE HUMERUS. 101 the other three nuclei coalesce to form an epiphysis, -which is united to the shaft in the 16th or 17th year. Fig. 81. Fig. 81.—Ossification of the humerus (R. Quain). A, from a full grown foetus ; B, at two years ; C, in tlie third year ; D, at the begin- ning of the fifth year ; E, at about the twelfth year ; F, at the age of puberty. 1, the primary centre for the shaft; 2, nucleus for the head ; 3, that for the great tuberosity ; 4, for the capitellum and adjacent part of the trochlea; 5, for the internal condyle ; 6, for the inner part of the trochlea ; 7, for the external condyle. In this and the following figures the more advanced bones are shown on a smaller scale than the earlier ones. The radius is developed from a nucleus, which appears in the middle of the shaft in the 8th week, and from an epiphysial nucleus in each extremity which Fig. 82. C D Fig. 82.—Ossification of the radius (R. Quain). A, the radius of a full-grown fcetus ; B, at about two years of age ; C, at five years ; D, at about eighteen years. 1, shaft; 2, ossific point of the lower epiphysis ; 3, that of the upper end. In D, the upper epiphysis is united to the shaft, while the lower is still separate.102 BOXES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 83.—Ossification of the ulna (R. Quain). only appears some time after birth. The nucleus in the carpal extremity appears at the end of the 2nd year, while that of the head is not seen till the 5th or Cth year. The superior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 17 th or 18th year; the inferior epiphysis and shaft unite about the 20th year. The ulna is ossified similarly to the radius, but begins a little later. The nucleus of the shaft appears about the 8th week, that of the carpal extremity in the 4th or 5th year. The upper extremity grows mainly from the shaft, but at A, the ulna at birth ; B, at the end of the fourth year ; C, of a boy of about twelve years of age ; D, of a male of about nineteen or twenty years. 1, shaft ; 2, nucleus of the lower epiphysis ; 3, nucleus of the upper epiphysis. In D, the upper epiphysis is united to the shaft, while the lower is still separate. the end of the olecranon a small epiphysis is formed from a nucleus which ap- pears in the 10th year. This epiphysis is united to the shaft about the 17th year ; the inferior epiphysis about the 20th year. From what is stated above it appears that in the bones of the arm and fore- aim the epiphyses which meet at the elbow-joint begin to ossify later, and unite with their shafts earlier, than those at the opposite ends of the bones, while in the bones of the thigh and leg the epiphyses at the knee-joint are the soonest to ossify and the latest to unite with their shafts. In the bones of the arm and forearm the nutrient foramina are directed towards the elbow ; in those of the thigh and leg they are directed away from the knee. Thus in each bone the epiphysis of the extremity towards which the medullary foramen is directed is the first to be united to the shaft. The carpus is entirely cartilaginous at birth. Each carpal bone is ossified from a single nucleus. The nucleus of the os magnum appears in the first year ; that of the unciform in the first or second year ; that of the pyramidal in the third year ; those of the trapezium and semilunar bones in the fifth year ; that of the scaphoid in the sixth or seventh year; that of the trapezoid in the seventh or eighth year ; and that of the pisiform in the twelfth year. The metacarpal bones and phalanges are usually formed each from a prin- cipal centre for the shaft and one epiphysis. The ossification of the shaft begins about the eighth or ninth week. In the four inner metacarpal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, while in the metacarpal bone of the thumb and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In many instances. Fig. 83,OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE HAND. 103 however, as was known to Albinus, and has been more fully shewn by Allen Thomson (Jour, of Anat. 1869), there is also a distal epiphysis visible in the first metacarpal bone at the age of seven or eight years, and there are even traces of a proximal epiphysis in the second metacarpal. In the seal and some other Fig. 84. c Fig. 84.—Ossification of thf. hones of the hand (R. Quain). A, the condition at birth. The carpus is entirely cartilaginous. Each of the meta- carpal bones and digital phalanges has its shaft ossified. B, at the end of the first year ; the os magnum and unciform have begun to ossify. C, about the third year. Centres of ossification are seen in the pyramidal and in the proximal epiphysis of the first and the distal epiphyses of the other four metacarpal bones, and in the proximal epiphyses of the first row of phalanges. D, at the fifth year. Centres have been formed in the trapezium and later in the semilunar bone, and in the epiphyses of the middle and distal phalanges : (the figure does not show them distinctly in the middle phalanges). E, at about the ninth year. Centres have been formed in the scaphoid and trapezoid bones, and the more developed epiphyses of the metacarpal bones and phalanges are shown in the first and second digits separately. 1, os magnum; 2, unciform ; 3, pyramidal; 4, semilunar; 5, trapezium; 6, scaphoid; 7, trapezoid ; 8, metacarpal bones, the principal pieces ; 8*, four metacarpal epiphyses ; 8', that of the thumb ; 9, first phalanges ; 9*, their epiphyses ; 9', that of the thumb ; 10, second phalanges; 10', epiphysis of terminal phalanx of thumb ; 11, terminal pha- langes of the fingers ; 11*, then- epiphyses.BONES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. 104 animals there are always two epiphyses in these hones. The epiphyses begin to be ossified from the third to the fifth year, and are united to their respective shafts about the twentieth year. The terminal phalanges of the digits present the remarkable peculiarity that the ossification of their shafts commences at the distal extremity, instead of in the middle of their length, as is the case with the other phalanges and with the long bones generally (Schafer and Dixey, Proc. Roy. Soc. xxx. 550, xxxi. 03). V.—THE PELVIS ANTE LOWER LIMB. The divisions of the lower limb are the haunch or hip, thigh, leg, and foot. In the haunch is the hip-bone, which enters into the formation of the pelvis; in the thigh is the femur; in the leg the tibia and fibula; and at the knee a large sesamoid bone, the patella. The foot is composed of three parts, viz., the tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. THE HIP-BONE. The hip-bone, os coxa, or innominate lone, with its neighbour of the opposite side and the addition of the sacrum and coccyx, forms the pelvis ; it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limb. It is constricted in the middle and expanded above and below, and is so curved that whilst the upper part is nearly vertical the lower part is directed inwards. On the external aspect of the constricted portion Fig. 85. 5 Fig. 85.—Right inr-BOXE, outer surface. (A. T.) \ 1, anterior superior, 2, anterior inferior spine; 3, posterior superior, 4, posterior inferior spine ; 5, crest of the ilium; 6, surface occupied by the gluteus medius muscle above the middle curved line ; between 6 and 3 are seen the superior curved line and the rough surface for the gluteus maximus; 7, surface be- tween the middle and inferior curved lines occupied by the gluteus minimus; 8, impression of the pos- terior tendon of the rectus femoris; 9, superior ramus of the pubis, and ilio-pectineal eminence; 10, crest and spine of the pubis ; 11, place of meeting of the inferior ramus of the pubis with the ramus of the ischium ; 12, spine, and 13, tuber- osity of the ischium ; 14, articular portion, 15, non-articular portion of the acetabulum ; 16, thyroid or obturator foi-amen ; 17, great, and 18, small sciatic notches. is the acetabulum, a cavity which articulates with the femur, and perforating the in- ferior expansion is a large opening, the obturator foramen. The superior wider part of the bone forms part of the abdominal wall : the inferior enters into the formation of the true pelvis. The hip-bone articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the sacrum, and with the femur.TILE HIP-BONE. 105 In the description of this bone it is convenient to recognise as distinct the three parts of it which are separate in early life, viz., the ilium, os pubis and ischium. These three portions meet at the aceta- bulum, in the formation of which they all take part; and the os pubis and ischium also meet on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The ilium constitutes the superior expanded portion of the bone, and forms a part of the acetabulum by its inferior extremity. Above the acetabulum it is limited anteriorly and posteriorly by margins which diverge at right angles one from the other, and superiorly by an arched thick border, the crest of the ilium. The crest is curved like the letterf, the fore part being concave inwards, the hinder part concave outwards ; its surface is broadest in its anterior and posterior thirds ; it is rough for the attachment of muscles, and on it may be distinguished an external and internal lip and an intermediate ridge. The anterior extremity of the crest forms a projection forwards called the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and, separated from it by a concave border, and placed imme- diately above the acetabulum, is another eminence called the anterior inferior spine: the projecting posterior extremity of the crest forms the posterior superior spine, and separated from it by a notch is the posterior inferior spine, below which the posterior border of the bone is hollowed out into tbe great sciatic (ilio-sciatic) notch. The external surface, or dorsum of the ilium, is traversed by three curved lines, which limit the areas of attachment of the gluteal muscles. The superior curved line leaves the iliac crest about one-fourth of its length from the posterior superior spine, and curves downwards and forwards towards the hinder part of the great sciatic notch : the middle curved line begins in front at the iliac crest, about one inch and a half from its anterior extremity, and arches backwards and downwards to the upper margin of the great sciatic notch : the inferior curved line, less strongly marked than the middle, commences at the anterior border, just above the anterior inferior spine, and is continued backwards nearly parallel to the margin of the acetabulum to the fore part of the great sciatic notch. Behind the superior line is a narrow semilunar surface, the upper portion of which is rough and gives attachment to the gluteus maximus muscle, while the lower part is smooth and free from muscular attachment. The sickle-shaped space between the iliac crest and superior curved line above and the inferior curved line below is occupied by the gluteus medius ; and the surface between the middle and inferior curved lines gives origin to the gluteus minimus. On the lowest part of this surface, immediately above the margin of the acetabulum, is a rough elongated mark where the posterior head of the rectus femoris is attached. The internal surface of the ilium is divided into two parts. The anterior of these (iliac surface) is the larger ; it is smooth and concave, occupied by the iliacus muscle, and is known as the iliac fossa. The posterior part (sacral surface) is again subdivided, presenting from below upwards :—1, a smooth surface entering into the formation of the true pelvis, and continuous with the pelvic surfaces of the pubis and ischium, only a faint line indicating in the adult the place of union ; this is separated from the iliac fossa by a smooth rounded border, the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line: 2, the uneven auricular surface, in the recent state covered with cartilage, for articulation with the sacrum, broad in front and extending on to the posterior inferior spine behind : 3, some deep impressions for the attachment of the sacrc-iliacFig. 86. 106 Fig. 86.—Rigiit hip-bone, inner BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. with the bone of the opposite side, the junction being called the symphysis ligament ; and 4, a less rough surface reaching up to the hinder portion of the iliac crest and giving' origin to the lower parts of the erector and multifidus spinal muscles. OR PELVIC SURFACE. (A. T.) ^ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 16, 17, and 18, in- dicate tlie same parts as in the pre- ceding figure ; 19, iliac fossa ; 20, ilio-pectineal line ; 21, auricular surface; 22, deep impressions for the posterior sacro-iliac ligament, and behind these the surface for the erector and multifidus spinse muscles ; 23, oval surface of the symphysis pubis ; 24, pubic spine ; 25, angle of the pubis ; between 24 and 25, the pubic crest ; between 17 and 20, the pelvic surface of the ilium. The cs pubis forms the an- terior wall of the pelvis, and bounds the obturator foramen in the upper half of its extent. At its outer and upper extremity it forms a part of the acetabulum ; at its inner extremity it presents an elongated oval surface which forms the articulation of the pubis. The part which passes downwards and outwards below the symphysis is called the inferior or descending ramus, the upper part is called the superior or ascending ramus, and the flat portion between the rami is the body. The deep or pelvic surface of the body is smooth ; the anterior or femoral surface is roughened near the symphysis by the attachments of muscles. At the superior extremity of the symphysis is the angle of the pubis, and extending outwards from this on the superior border is the rough crest, terminating in the projecting spine. The inferior ramus is flattened : the superior ramus becomes prismatic, and increases in thickness as it passes upwards and outwards, and between its posterior and superior surfaces there is prolonged outwards from the spine a ridge which is the pubic portion of the ilio-pectineal line. The surface in front of this line is covered by the pectineus muscle ; the inferior surface of the ramus presents a deep groove directed from behind forwards and inwards for the obturator vessels and nerve. On the superior surface above the acetabulum there is an elevation, the ilio-pectineal eminence, marking the place of junction of the pubis and ilium. The ischium forms the posterior and inferior part of the hip-bone, and bounds the obturator foramen in the lower half of its extent. Superiorly it enters into the acetabulum, inferiorly it forms a thick projection, the tuberosity, and this part, diminishing in size, is con- tinued forwards into the ramus. On its posterior border, behind the acetabulum, a sharp process, the spine, projecting with an inclination inwards, forms the inferior limit of the great sciatic notch, and is107 THE HIP-BOJTE. separated from the tuberosity by a short interval, the small sciatic notch, against the smooth margin of which glides the tendon of the obturator internus muscle. In front of this, on the external surface, a horizontal groove, occupied by the upper border of the obturator externus muscle, lies between the inferior margin of the acetabulum and the tuberosity. The tuberosity presents a rough pyriform surface continuous with the internal margin of the ramus, on the broader superior portion of which are two impressions, placed side by side, the outer for the semimembranosus, the inner for the conjoined origins of the biceps and semitendinosus, while the lower part is ridged and gives attachment to the adductor magnus muscle ; the inner border is sharp and prominent where the great sacro-sciatic ligament is attached, and along the outer margin is a faint elongated impression marking the place of origin of the quadratus femoris muscle. The ramus of the ischium is flattened like the inferior ramus of the pubis, with which it is continuous on the inner side of the obturator foramen. The acetabulum, or cotyloid cavity, is a cup-shaped hollow, looking- outwards, downwards, and forwards, and surrounded in the greater part of its circumference by an elevated margin, which is most prominent at the posterior and upper part ; while at the opposite side, close to the obturator foramen, it is deficient, forming the cotyloid notch. Its lateral and upper parts present a broad horseshoe-shaped smooth surface, which articulates with the head of the femur, and in the recent state is coated with cartilage, but the lower part of the cup and the region of the notch are depressed below the level of the articular surface, lodge a mass of fat and the interarticular ligament, and have no cartilaginous coating. Rather more than two-fifths of the acetabulum are formed from the ischium, less than two-fifths from the ilium, and the remainder from the pubis. The iliac portion of the articular surface is the largest, the pubic the smallest: the non-articular surface belongs chiefly to the ischium. The obturator or thyroid foramen, also called foremen ovale, is internal and inferior to the acetabulum. In the male it is nearly oval, with the long diameter directed downwards and outwards ; in the female it is more triangular, or narrowed at its lower part. In the recent state it is closed by a fibrous membrane, except in the neighbourhood of the groove in its upper margin. The hip-bone varies greatly in thickness at different parts. The strongest portions are found along the lines of greatest pressure ; these are, a very thick bar in the ilium between the auricular surface and the acetabulum, through which the weight of the body is transmitted to the thigh-bones, and a second formed by the ischium, ending in the tuberosity, which supports the body in the sitting posture. The ilium has also a thick rib running from the acetabulum to the most prominent portion of the iliac crest, while the bone between this and the auricular surface, corresponding to the deepest part of the iliac fossa, is very thin. The floor of the non-articular portion of the acetabulum is also a thin plate of bone, and this, as well as the thin part of the ilium, is occa- sionally perforated. The crest of the ilium is subcutaneous, and forms the boundary between the abdomen and the region of the hip. In front the pubic spine is to be felt through the integuments, and low'd’ down the innerBOXES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 108 margin of the united rami of the ischium and pubis can be followed to the ischial tuberosity, dividing the perineum from the thigh. The remainder of the bone is thickly covered by muscles. THE PELVIS. The hip-bones with the sacrum and coccyx form the pelvis. This part of the skeleton may be considered as divided into two parts by a plane passing through the sacral promontory, the ilio-pectineal lines, and the upper border of the symphysis pubis. The circle thus com- pleted constitutes the brim or inlet of the lower or true pelvis ; the space Fig. 87. Fig. 87. Similarly placed with that shown in the preceding figure, and illustrating by comparison with it, the principal differ- ences between the male and female pel- vis. The numbers indicate the same parts as in the pre- ceding figure. above it, between the iliac fossae, belongs really to the abdomen, but has been called the upper or false pelvis. The inferior circumference, or outlet of the pelvis, presents three large bony emi- nences, the coccyx and the tuberosities of the ischia. Between the tube- rosities of the ischia in front is the subpubic arch, which bounds an angular space extending forwards to the symphysis, and is formed by the inferior rami of the pubes and the rami of the ischia. The interval between the sacrum and coccyx and the ischium on each side is bridged over in the recent state by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, which therefore assist in bounding the outlet of the pelvis. Fig. 88. Fig. 88. Adult female pel- vis. (A. T.) J Adult male pelvis SEEN FROM BE- FORE, IN THE ERECT ATTITUDE OF THE BODY. (A. T.) i 1, 2, anterior ex- tremities of the iliac crests in front of the greatest transverse diameter of the false pelvis ; 8, 4, aceta- bula ; 5, 5, obturator foramina ; 6, sub- pubic angle or arch.109 TEE PELVIS. Position of tlie pelvis.—In the erect attitude of the body,' the pelvis is so inclined that the plane of the brim of the true pelvis forms an angle with the horizontal, which varies in different individuals from 60° to 65°. The base of the sacrum was found by Ivagele in a large number of well-formed female bodies to be about 3f inches above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis ; the level of the top of the coccyx he found varying from 22 lines above the apex of the pubic arch to 9 lines below the same point, and on an average to be 7 or 8 lines above it (Nagele, “ Das weibliche Becken,” &c., Carlsruhe, 1825 ; Wood, article “ Pelvis ” in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology). The pelvic surface of the sacrum, near its base, looks much more down- wards than forwards, hence the sacrum appears at first sight to occupy Figs. 89 & 90. Sketches of the male AND FEMALE PELVIS AS SEEN FROM ABOVE AND IN FRONT. (A.T.) £ In fig. 90 of the fe- male pelvis the lines are shown in which the di- mensions of the pelvis are usually measured at the hrim. a, p, antero-posterior or conjugate diameter ; t, r, transverse or widest diameter; o, b, o, b, oblique diameters. In the original speci- mens, which were se- lected as giving the full average dimensions, the following were the mea- surements in inches :— Antero-posterior dia- meter — female, 4-i ; male, 4. Transverse diameter—female, 5g- ; male, 4t. Oblique diameter — female, 5 ; male, 4£. the position of the keystone of an arch; but being in reality broader at its pelvic than on its dorsal aspect, it is a keystone inverted, or having its broad end lowest, and is supported in its place chiefly by ligaments, but also to a slight extent by the inward projection of the anterior margin of the iliac articular surface. The line of pressure of the weight of the body on the sacrum is directed downwards towards the symphysis pubis, and the resistance of the head of the thigh-bone on each side is directed upwards and inwards. The axis of the pelvis is the name given to a line drawn at right angles to the planes of the brim, cavity and outlet, through their central Fig. 89. Fig. 90.BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 110 points. The posterior wall, formed by the sacrum and coccyx, being about five inches long and concave, while the anterior wall at the wards or forwards according to the level of the coccyx. Differences according to sex.—The size and form of the pelvis differ remarkably in the two sexes. In the female the constituent bones Fig. 91.—Vertical median section op a female pelvis (reduced from Niigele’s figure). | 1, symphysis pubis; 2, promontory of the sacrum ; 3, coccygeal bones ; 4, anterior superior spine of ilium ; 5, tuberosity of ischium ; 6, spine of ischium (the obturator foramen is not represented so pointed below as it generally is in females). The verti- cal and horizontal lines in the lower part of the figure will assist the eye in judging of the degree of inclination of the pelvis, as illustrated by the next figure. symphysis pubis is only one and a half or two inches long, the axis is curved ; it is di- rected at the inlet upwards and forwards towards the um- bilicus, and at the outlet downwards and a little back- Fig. 91. Fig. 92. Fig. 92.—Sketch of part op the pre- ceding FIGURE, SHOWING TIIE INCLI- NATION OF THE BRIM OP THE PELVIS AND ITS AXIS IN THE ERECT POSTURE. -lj a, b, line of inclination of the brim of the true pelvis ; e, f, a line inclining backwards and upwards, touching the lower edge of the symphysis pubis and point of the coccyx ; c, d, axis of the brim at right angles to the plane of the brim ; d, h, (j, curved axis of the cavity and outlet. are more slender and less marked with muscular impressions; the perpendicular depth is less, and the breadth and capacity of the true pelvis greater ; the ilia how- ever are more vertical, and thus the false pelvis is relatively nar- rower than in the male ; the inlet of the true pelvis is more nearly circular, the sacral promontory projecting less into it ; the sacrum is flatter and broader ; the depth of the symphysis pubis is less ; the pubic arch is much wider, and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater.Ill THE FEMUR. Tlie average dimensions of the pelvis, as measured in a number of full-sized males and females, may be stated as follow, in inches :— Distance between tbe widest part of the crests of the ilia Distance between the anterior superior spines of the ilia Distance between the front of sym- physis pubis and the sacral spines True Pelvis. | Transverse diameter Oblique diameter Antero-posterior diameter Male. 10 to 11 9-1- — 10 0-1 — 7 Female. 101 to 11 10 — 10-|- C h — n Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. 4-! 4i 3-1 4" 31- 5 41 Outlet. 4| The human pelvis, compared with that of the lower animals, is characterised by its shallowness and breadth, and by the great capacity of the true pelvis ; by the expansion of the ilia, the length and sigmoid curve of their crests, the massiveness and straightness of the ischial tuberosities, and the shortness of the symphysis. Similar, although much slighter, variations in the form of the pelvis are to be recognized in the different races of mankind, the most important of which is in the relation of the antero-posterior to the transverse diameter, and is expressed by what is termed the pelvic index. This is measured at the pelvic brim ; the transverse diameter is taken as the standard = 100, and the proportion of the antero-posterior diameter to this gives the index. For this purpose the pelves of the two sexes must necessarily be grouped separately, the female having always a lower index than the male ; and the male is usually selected for com- parison. The following examples of the average pelvic index in the male of four races will show the range of variation : European (Flower) 81 Negro (Verneau) 89 Native Australian (Flower) 98 Andaman Islander (Flower) 101 THE FEMUR. The femur or thigh-bone, situated between the hip-bone and the tibia, is the largest and longest bone of the skeleton, its proportion exceeding one-fourth of the height of the whole body. In the erect position of the body it inclines inwards and slightly backwards as it descends, so as to approach interiorly its fellow of the opposite side, and to have its upper end a little in advance of the lower. It is divisible into a superior extremity, including the head and neck and two eminences called tro- chanters, the shaft, and an inferior extremity expanded into an external and an internal condyle. At the superior extremity of the bone, the neck extends inwards, up- wards, and slightly forwards, being set upon the shaft at an angle of about 125° or 180°. The neck is expanded from above down at its base, where it meets the shaft obliquely, but compressed from before back, so 'that the vertical diameter greatly exceeds the antero-posterior; the sum- mit becomes more rounded and is somewhat enlarged again as it joins112 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. the head. It is shorter superiorly than interiorly, and the anterior sur- p. r 93 face is shorter than the posterior. The 1"‘ ' head forms more than half a sphere, and is covered with cartilage in the fresh state. Behind and below its central point is a small depression, which gives attachment to the interarticular liga- ment of the hip joint. Fig. 93.— Femur of a male from before. (A. T.) i 1, shaft; 2, head; 3, neck ; 4, great tro- chauter ; 5, small trochanter ; 6, anterior inter- trochanteric line; 7, internal condyle ; 8, external condyle ; 9, internal tuberosity ; x , adductor tubercle ; 10, external tuberosity ; 11, the tro- chlear or patellar surface ; above it, 12, the flat part of the femur sometimes called the supra- patellar surface ; 13, the depression for the tendon of the popliteus muscle. The great trochanter is a thick trun- cated process prolonged upwards in a line with the external surface of the shaft. In front it is marked by the insertion of the gluteus minimus; ex- ternally an oblique line directed down- wards and forwards indicates the in- ferior border of the insertion of the gluteus medius muscle, and lower down the surface is bounded by a horizontal line, continued upwards in front of the trochanter to an eminence at the junc- tion with the neck, the tubercle of the femur; the line marks the upper limit of the vastus externus. Internally at its base, and rather behind the neck, is the trochanteric or digital fossa, which gives attachment to the obturator ex- ternus muscle, while close above and in front of this is the impression of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. The upper border of the great trochanter is narrow, and presents an oval mark for the insertion of the pyriformis ; the posterior border is prominent, and con- tinued into a strong smooth ridge, the posterior intertrochanteric line, which passes downwards and inwards to the small trochanter, and limits the neck posteriorly; above the centre the line is thickened, marking the attachment of the upper part of the quaclratus be termed the tubercle of the qiiadratus.113 THE FEMUR. The small trochanter, a conical eminence, projects and inner aspect of the bone at the junc- tion of the neck with the shaft; its rounded summit gives attachment to the tendon of the psoas and iliacus muscles. The ( neck is separated from the shaft ante- Fig. 94.—Femur of a male from eeiiind. (A. T.) ^ 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, x , 10, and 13, as in the preceding figure ; 2', pit on the head for the interarticular ligament of the hip-joint ; 3', the back of the neck, showing a slight groove for the obturator extemus muscle as it passes over the capsular ligament and neck ; between 4 and 5, the posterior intertro- chanteric ridge; 14, gluteal ridge; 15, inner divi- sion of upper end of linea aspera ; between this and the gluteal ridge is seen the line leading to small trochanter; 16, linea aspera; 17, popliteal sur- face ; 18, intercondylar notch ; 19, foramen for the medullary artery. riorly by the anterior intertrochanteric line, a broad rough, line commencing at the tubercle of the femur and directed obliquely downwards and inwards a finger’s breadth in front of the small trochanter; it indicates the attachment of the thick anterior portion of the cap- sular ligament of the hip and the upper border of the united crureus and vastus internus muscles. The shaft is arched from above down- wards, with the convexity forwards. It is expanded at its upper and lower ends. Towards the centre it is nearly cylindri- cal, but with a tendency to the prismatic form, due to the projection of the linea aspera behind, and a slight flattening of the surface in front; so that it may con- veniently be regarded as presenting an anterior and two lateral surfaces, although definite lines separating the surfaces clo not exist. All three surfaces, smooth and uniform, are covered by the crureus and vasti muscles. The lateral surfaces in the middle of their extent approach one another behind, being only separated by the linea aspera. The linea aspera is a prominent ridge, extending along the cen- tral third of the shaft posteriorly, and bifurcating above and below. It presents two sharp margins or lips and a flat in- terval. The external lip is prolonged up to the great trochanter, and in its course is strongly marked for about three inches where the VOL. I. from the posterior Fig. 94. §m 1 vs JpT / v ■ in if7 W, fry \ M - - y hli:L 35- 10- H \ a if* * yy ! vt.I ill t i ha ill i If | ! M\ !; it ni w i m\ mi w 23 1 gluteus maximus is iBONES OF THE LOWER LIMB 114 attached ; this gluteal ridge is the representative of the third trochanter of the horse and other animals. The internal lip is continued, winding in front of the small trochanter, to the anterior intertrochanteric line, marking the attachment of the vastus interims, and in the interval be- tween the two diverging branches of the linea aspera a less distinct line is seen passing to the small trochanter, and which gives attachment to the pectineus. Interiorly the two lips are prolonged to the condyles under the name of internal and external supracondylar lines, enclosing between them a flat triangular surface of bone, the popliteal surface of the femur, which forms the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. The internal supracondylar line is interrupted at the upper part where the femoral vessels lie against the bone ; it terminates below in a small sharp projection, the adductor tubercle, giving attachment to the tendon of the adductor magnus. Above the centre of the linea aspera is the foramen for the medullary artery, directed upwards into the bone; a second is frequently to be seen near the lower end of the line. The inferior extremity presents two rounded eminences, the condyles, united anteriorly, hut separated posteriorly by a deep intercondylar fossa or notch. Their greatest prominence is directed backwards, and their curve, as it increases towards that part, may he compared to that of a partially uncoiled piece of watch-spring. The external condyle is the broader and more prominent in front; the internal is the longer and more prominent interiorly. One large articular surface, coated continu- ously with cartilage, extends over both condyles, but, opposite the front of the intercondylar fossa, it is divided by two irregular, slightly marked, transverse grooves into three parts, an elevated surface on each side of the fossa for articulation with the tibia ; and a grooved anterior surface for the patella. The patellar surface is of a trochlear form, being marked by a vertical hollow and two prominent lips ; the external portion of this surface is more prominent, and rises higher than the in- ternal. The tibial surfaces are nearly parallel, except in front, where the internal turns obliquely outwards to reach the patellar surface. On the exposed lateral surface of each condyle is a rough hiberosity, giving attachment to the respective lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The external tuberosity is the smaller of the two ; above it is a roundish im- pression for the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and below and behind it an oblique groove, ending inferiorly in a pit, in which the popliteus muscle takes origin. On the upper part of the internal condyle, between the adductor tubercle and the articular surface is an impression for the internal head of the gastrocnemius. The head and neck of the femur are deeply placed, the great trochanter is covered only by the aponeurosis of the gluteus maximus, and is readily felt, forming the most prominent part of the hip. The shaft is thickly surrounded by muscles. The condyles are subcutaneous on each side of the knee, the internal being especially prominent ; the trochlear surface is concealed by the patella during extension, but in the flexed limb its form can be traced pushing up the muscular covering. The angle between the neck and shaft of the femur is very open in the child ; in advanced age it tends to diminish, and at last may be reduced to a right angle, probably as a result of degenerative processes. In tlic female the angle of the neck is slightly less obtuse than in the male ; and from the greater width of the pelvis, and the shortness of the limbs, the convergence of the thigh bones inferiorly is more apparent.115 TIIE PATELLA.—THE TIBIA. Fig. 95. THE PATELLA. The patella, rotula, or knee-pan, situated at the front of the knce- Fig. 95.—Right patella. (A. T.) ^ A, from before ; B, from behind. Both views show the lower extremity pointing slightly inwards ; the posterior view shows the articular surface, divided by an ele- vated ridge into a smaller internal and a larger external part. joint, is attached inferiorly by a ligament or tendon to the tibia, and may be considered as a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris. It is compressed from before backwards, and has the. form of a triangle with the apex below. Its anterior surface is subcutaneous ; the superior border is broad, and gives attachment to the extensor muscle; its inferior angle, together with the sharp border on each side, gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. The deep surface, except at the inferior angle, is coated with cartilage for articulation with the femur, and is divided by a vertical elevation into two parts, the external of which, the larger, is transversely concave, while the internal is convex. THE TIBIA. The tibia, or shin-bone, is, next to the femur, the longest bone in the skeleton. It is the anterior and inner of the two bones of the leg, and alone communicates the weight of the trunk to the foot. It articulates with the femur, fibula, and astragalus. The superior extremity is thick and expanded, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and slightly hollowed posteriorly. On its superior aspect are placed two slightly concave articular surfaces, which sustain the femur. These are the condylar surfaces; they are ova} in form, the Internal being larger than the external, a little more hollowed, and longer from before backwards. Between them is an irreg- ular interval, depressed in front and behind, where it gives attaclnnent to the crucial ligaments and semilunar fibro-cartilages of the knee joint, and elevated in the middle, where is formed the spine. The summit of the spine presents two compressed tubercles, formed by the prolongation upwards on its sides of the margins of the condylar surfaces, the inner rising a little higher than the outer. On the sides of the upper ex- tremity of the bone are two massive eminences, the external and internal tuberosities; the outer of these, somewhat smaller than the other, forms at the junction of its anterior and external surfaces a broad prominent tubercle, and is marked at its posterior and under part by a flat surface which articulates with the fibula, while the inner, which is rounded, presents posteriorly a groove for the insertion of the semimembranosus muscle. Lower down, in front, is situated the tubercle or anterior tuberosity, marked by the attachment of the ligamentum patellae. The shaft of the tibia is three-sided, and diminishes in size as it descends for about two-thirds of its length, but increases somewhat towards its lower extremity. The internal surface is convex and, for the most part, subcutaneous ; at the upper end, by the side of the tubercle.116 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. is a slight roughness where the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus muscles are inserted. It is separated from the external surface by a sharp, slightly sinuous ridge, the anterior border or crest, which descends from the tubercle, and is smoothed away in the inferior Eig. 96. Fig. 96.—Right tibia from before. (A. T.) i 6' 1, shaft, and crest or anterior border ; 2, inner tube- rosity ; 3, outer tuberosity; 4, inner, and 5 outer, con- dylar articular surface ; 6, spine, with fossa at its root in front ; 7, tubercle ; 8, lower articular surface for as- tragalus ; 9, internal malleolus. third of the bone. The external surface is slightly hollowed in the larger part of its extent, where it gives origin to the tibialis anticus muscle ; but beneath the point where the crest disappears it turns forwards, be- comes convex, and is covered by the extensor tendons. The j'posterior surface is crossed obliquely in its upper third by a rough line, the popliteal, or oblique line, which runs down- wards and inwards from the outer tuberosity, and gives origin to the soleus muscle : above this is a triangular area occupied by the popliteus muscle, while below the line, in the middle third of the shaft, a longitudinal ridge divides the surface into two portions, an inner giving origin to the flexor longus digi- torum, and an outer, larger, to the tibialis posticLs. blear the oblique line is a large medullary foramen directed downwards into the bone. The posterior surface is separated from the internal by a smooth rounded in- ternal border, and from the outer surface, by the external border, a sharp ridge, inclined forwards above, to which the interosseous membrane is attached. The inferior extremity, much smaller than the superior, is expanded transversely, and projects downwards on its inner side, so as to form a thick process, the internal malleolus. Interiorly it presents for articulation with the astragalus a cartilaginous surface, which is quadrilateral, concave from before back- wards, and having its posterior border nar- rower and projecting farther downwards than the anterior; internally the cartilaginous sur- face is continued down in a vertical direc- tion upon the internal malleolus, clothing its outer surface somewhat more deeply in front than behind. The external surface is concave, and mostly rough for ligament, but along the lower border is a narrow surface which is smooth and cartilage-covered for articulation with the fibula. The posterior surface of the internal malleolus is marked by a double groove for the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus117 THE FIBULA. digitorum, and more externally is a slight depression where the tendon of the flexor longns hallucis lies. The tibia is slightly twisted, so that when the upper extremity has its long diameter directed transversely, the internal malleolus is inclined forwards. Fig. 97.—Right tieia from behind. (A. T.) J 6, and 9, as in the preceding figure; 2', groove behind the internal tuberosity for the tendon of the semimem- branosus ; 10, articular facet for the head of the fibula ; 11, oblique line of tibia, above which is the triangular popliteal surface; 12, medullary foramen directed down- wards; 13, triangular rough surface for the lower inter- osseous ligament, and small cartilaginous surface below it for articulation with the fibula ; 14, below a slight groove marking the place of the flexor longus hallucis muscle ; 15, below the groove of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles. Fig. 97. Both tuberosities of the tibia are subcuta- neous, the external forming a superficial prominence at the outer and fore part of \~12 the outer am the knee. The internal surface of the shaft is thinly covered for a short distance at the upper part by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus, but in the rest of its extent it is subcutaneous, together with the continuous surface of the internal malleolus. Anteriorly, the tubercle gives rise to a slight elevation below the knee, on which the body is supported in kneel- ing, and running down from this the crest is to be followed, constituting the shin. THE FIBULA. The fibula, or peroneal bone, is situated at "the outer side of the leg ; it is nearly equal to the tibia in length, but is much more slender. Its inferior extremity is placed a little in advance of the superior ; and its shaft is slightly curved, so as to have the convexity directed backwards, and, in the lower half, slightly inwards towards the tibia. The superior extremity, or head, somewhat expanded, is produced upwards at its hind- most part into a conical eminence, known as the styloid process; in front of, and inside this is a small oval cartilage-covered facet, looking upwards, inwards and forwards, for articulation with the outer tuberosity of the tibia; while more externally is a somewhat excavated surface where the tendon of the biceps femoris is inserted : the outer side of the head is smooth and subcutaneous. The somewhat constricted part below the head is distinguished as the neck. The inferior extremity, or external malleolus, is longer and more 15 14118 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. prominent than the internal malleolus ; internally it forms the outer limit of the ankle joint, and presents a triangular smooth surface for articulation with the astragalus, behind which is a rough depression where a part of the external lateral ligament is attached: its anterior border, after projecting rather abruptly forwards, slopes downwards and Fig. 98. Fig. 99. Fig. 98.—Right fibula from the outside. (A. T.) J ], outer surface of the shaft; 2, head ; 3, styloid process ; 4, external malleolus, the figure is placed opposite its anterior oblique edge ; above this is seen the triangular subcutaneous surface. Fig. 99.—Right fibula from the inside and behind. (A. T.) i 5, articular surface on the head for the tibia; 6, points to the internal surface ; 7, the triangular rough 11'',, surface for the lower interosseous ligament; 8, the ex- ternal malleolar surface for articulation with the astra- galus ; 9, groove behind the external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles ; at a little distance below 6, the medullary foramen. backwards; posteriorly it is marked by a shallow groove traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles ; externally it is convex and subcutaneous, and a triangular subcuta- neous surface is continued up from it for two or three inches on the shaft. The shaft presents four surfaces, separated by as many prominent lines. Three of these lines are known as borders, the fourth is the interosseous ridge. The anterior border is the most prominent ; it commences at the fore part of the neck, and takes a straight course down the front of the bone as far as the lower fifth, where it bifurcates, the one line running to the front of the malleolus, the other to the back, and enclosing between them the triangular subcutaneous surface. Im- mediately internal to this is the interosseous ridge, so named from giving attachment to the interosseous membrane ; it is close to the anterior border above, but gradually diverges from that as it passes downwards; it termi- nates about an inch and a harif above the ankle-joint in the apex of a triangular sur- face, convex and roughened by the inferior interosseous ligament, fixing it to the tibia. The external border extends the whole length of the bone, from the styloid process to the back of the malleolus, in- clining inwards in its lower half. The remaining border, internal, commences at the inner side of the neck, runs down the shaft for two- thirds of its length, and then ends by joining the interosseous ridge. The surfaces are :—the anterior, between the anterior border and the interosseous ridge, narrow' above, wider below ; it gives origin to the ex- Jn mr119 TIIE TAESUS. tensor muscles of the toes and the peroneus tertius : the external broadest of all, somewhat hollowed at the upper part, turning below to the back of the malleolus, thus indicating the course of the peronei muscles, by which it is completely covered ; the posterior, which winds to the inner side of the bone in its lower half; in its upper third it i rough, giving origin to the soleus, the rest of its extent is occupied by the flexor longus hallucis ; and the internal, between the internal border and the interosseous line, is a fusiform surface over the upper two-thirds only of the shaft, and giving origin to the tibialis posticus ; it is often traversed by an oblique ridge which gives ■attachment to a tendinous septum in the muscle. The medullary foramen is small, placed on the in- ternal or posterior surface, about the middle, and is directed downwards. The head of the fibula projects under the skin at the outer and back part of the knee, behind and somewhat below the level of the prominent outer tuberosity of the tibia. The shaft is covered by muscles, except over the triangular surface above mentioned. The external malleolus descends lower and projects farther backwards than the internal, its point being nearer to the heel by about three-quarters of an inch. THE tahsus. The tarsus is composed of seven bones, viz., the calcaneum, astragalus, navicular, three cuneiform, and cuboid. The Calcaneum, or os calcis, is the largest bone of the foot. Pro- Fig. 100.—Eight foot, viewed from above, showing Fig. 100. ITS DORSAL ASPECT. (A. T.) $ a, navicular bone ; b, astragalus ; c, os calcis; d, its tuberosity ; c, internal cuneiform ; /, middle cuneiform; <j, external cuneiform; h, cuboid bone. I to V, the meta- tarsal bones; 1, 3, first and last phalanges of the great toe; 1, 2, 3, first, second, and third phalanges of the second toe. jecting downwards and backwards, it forms the heel. Above it articulates with the astragalus, and in front with the cuboid bone. Its prin- cipal axis extends forwards and outwards from its posterior extremity to the cuboid bone. The large posterior extremity, or tuberosity, presents interiorly two tubercles, which rest upon the ground, and the internal of which is the larger : its hinder surface is divided into an upper part, smooth and separated by a bursa from the tendo Achillis, a middle part for the attachment of the tendon, and a lower part, convex and roughened, continued below on to the tubercles, and covered by the thick skin and fatty pad of the heel. The part in front of the tuberosity forms a slightly constricted neck. The internal surface of the bone is deeply concave, and its concavity is surmounted in front by a flattened process, the sustentaculum tali, which projects inwards near the anterior extremity of the bone on120 BONES OE THE LOWER LIMB. a level with its upper surface, and presents interiorly a groove occupied by the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The upper surface presents two articular facets for the astragalus, separated by an oblique groove in which the interosseous ligament is attached ; the anterior facet, often subdivided into two, is placed over the sustentaculum, and is concave ; the other, posterior and external to this, and larger, is convex from behind forwards and outwards : the outer end of the groove is much widened, and at its fore part is a rough surface where the extensor brevis digitorum takes origin. The anterior extremity articulates with the cuboid bone by a surface concave from above, downwards and outwards, and convex in the opposite direction, and internal to this, along the front of the sustentaculum tali, the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament is attached. The under surface, projecting in a rough anterior tubercle, gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The ex- ternal surface is on the whole flat, but presents at its fore part a variable ridge, the peroneal spine, separating two slight grooves, the upper for the tendon of the peroneus brevis, the lower for the peroneus longus. The astragalus, or talus, second in size of the tarsal bones, receives the weight of the body from the leg. It articulates with the tibia and fibula above, the os calcis below, and the navicular in front. Its longest Fig. 101.—Right foot viewed from below, showing THE PLANTAR ASPECT. (A. T.) ^ The indications are the same as in the preceding figure ; the middle and external cuneiform bones are not lettered ; the sesamoid bones are not represented ; they will be seen in the view of the articulations of the foot. axis is directed forwards and inwards. Its main part is called the body, the convex anterior ex- tremity is the head, and the grooved part behind this is the neclc. The superior articular surface occupies the whole of the upper aspect- of the body, and sends a prolongation downwards on each of the lateral surfaces of the bone. The middle part, looking upwards to the tibia, is convex from before backwards, broader in front than behind, with its outer margin longer than the inner, and curved, while the inner is straight. The inner lateral part is narrow, sickle-shaped, and articulates with the internal malleolus ; the outer lateral part, much deeper and triangular, articulates with the external malleolus. In- teriorly, there are two smooth surfaces, which articulate with the calcaneum. The posterior of these, the larger, concave from within out- wards and forwards, is separated by a rough depression for the interosseous ligament from the convex anterior surface, which rests on the sustentaculum tali. The rounded surface of the head articulates with the navicular bone, and interiorly, between this and the anterior articu- lation with the os calcis, is a small facet which rests upon the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, the three forming one continuous ar- ticular surface. The posterior border of the bone lies behind the susten- Fig. 101.121 THE TARSUS. taculum tali, and like that process, is grooved by the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The navicular or scaphoid bone is placed at the inner side of the foot between the astragalus and cuneiform bones. It is elongated trans- versely, and compressed from before backwards. It presents posteriorly an articular concavity for the head of the astragalus, and anteriorly a convex surface divided by two lines converging below into three facets which articulate respectively with the three cuneiform bones. Its upper surface is convex from side to side, the lower is narrower and very un- even. On the outer end is in some instances a small articular surface for the cuboid bone : the inner end forms the prominent tubercle, directed downwards, and giving insertion to the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. The cuneiform or wedge-shaped bones are known as first, second, and third, from within outwards, or internal, middle and external. They are placed between the navicular bone and the three inner metatarsal bones, and present anteriorly and posteriorly smooth surfaces for articu- lation with those bones. The internal cuneiform bone is the largest, the middle is the smallest. The proximal ends of the three bones are in the same transverse line ; but at their distal ends the internal and external project forwards beyond the middle one, and thus form a deep recess into which the base of the second metatarsal bone is received. The internal cuneiform bone has its sharp border directed upwards, and the thick rounded base of the wedge projects downwards on the inner border of the foot. The anterior articular surface, for the first metatarsal bone, is much larger than the posterior, is kidney-shaped and convex. The inner surface is free, and presents at its lower and fore part a smooth rounded mark for the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle : on the outer side, along the posterior and superior borders is an L-shaped surface, which articulates with the middle cuneiform, and at its anterior extremity with the second metatarsal bone. The middle cuneiform bone has its base directed upwards, and the sharp edge downwards towards the sole. The posterior end is somewhat broader than the anterior. On the inner side is an L-shaped articular surface, corresponding to that on the internal cuneiform bone; and on the outer side is a smaller facet, at the posterior part, for the external cuneiform bone. The external cuneiform bone is also situated with its base upwards. At its anterior end is a triangular articular surface for the third meta- tarsal bone, and continuous with this are two small facets, one on the fore part of each lateral surface, for the second and fourth metatarsal bones. On the internal surface, at the posterior part, is an articular facet for the middle cuneiform bone, and on the outer surface a much larger one for the cuboid bone. The cuboid bone is situated on the outer side of the foot, between the calcaneum and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. It deviates from the cuboid form and becomes rather pyramidal, by the sloping of four of its surfaces towards the smaller external border. The posterior surface articulates with the os calcis : the anterior surface is divided into an in- ternal quadrilateral and an external triangular facet, articulating with the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. On the internal aspect, in the middle, and reaching its superior border, is a smooth surface, which articulates with the external cuneiform bone, and behind this, in some122 BOXES OF THE LOWER LIMB. instances, is a smaller surface articulating with the navicular, while the remainder is rough for ligaments. The external border presents a smooth vertical groove, in which the tendon of the peroneus longus lies ; and the inferior surface is traversed obliquely near its anterior margin by a continuation of the same groove ; behind this there is a thick ridge, which, with the rest of the inferior surface, gives attachment to the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Tjic superior surface, looking outwards and upwards, is on the whole even, but gather rough. THE METATARSUS. The five metatarsal bones are distinguished by numbers, according to their position from within outwards. They resemble the metacarpal bones of the hand in being long bones, slightly convex from end to end on the dorsal aspect, in having irregular shaped bases, three-sided shafts, and rounded heads which articulate with the phalanges. They also agree with the metacarpal bones in the number of bones with which each articulates. The first metatarsal lone is the shortest, but is much thicker and more massive than the others. On its base is a large kidney-shaped surface, slightly concave, for articulation with the internal cuneiform bone, and occasionally there occurs a small facet on the outer side for the second metatarsal bone. Of the three surfaces of the shaft, the superior, which looks also inwards, is oblong and convex, the inferior is concave, and the external, the largest, is triangular and flattened, and is marked at its postero-inferior angle by a rounded impression where the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle is inserted. The head is large, and has on its under surface a median ridge, separating two grooves in which the sesamoid bones glide. The remaining four bones are distinguished from the metacarpal bones by being more slender and compressed from side to side, corresponding to the narrower form of the foot compared with that of the hand. The second is the longest; the others diminish gradually to the fifth. Their shafts present in the greater part of their extent a prominent border looking upwards, which in the middle three appears on the back of the foot between the dorsal interosseous muscles on each side. Their heads are elongated from above down, and terminate below in two small pro- jections ; on each side is a tubercle and depression for the attachment of the lateral ligament. The bases differ in the several bones, and thus furnish distinctive characters between them. The second has a triangular base, which articulates with the middle cuneiform bone ; on the inner side is a small facet for the internal cuneiform ; and on the outer side are usually two small surfaces, an upper and a lower, each again subdivided into two, thus making four facets, of which the two posterior articulate with the external cuneiform, and the two anterior with the next metatarsal bone. The third has also a triangular base articulating with the external cuneiform bone ; on the inner side are usually two facets for the second, and on the outer side a single larger facet for the fourth metatarsal bone. The base of the fourth is oblong or oval, and articulates with the cuboid ; on the inner side is generally a double facet for the third metatarsal and the external cuneiform bones, but the arti- culation with the latter is sometimes absent ; and on the outer side is a single surface for the fifth metatarsal bone, with a deep groove belowTHE PHALANGES.—BONES OF THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. 123 it. Thz fifth articulates by its base with the cuboid, and internally with the fourth metatarsal bone, while externally it projects in a large rough tuberosity, into which the peroneus brevis muscle is inserted. THE PHALANGES. The phalanges of the toes correspond so nearly in general conforma- tion with those of the fingers that it will only be necessary in this place to state the points in which they differ from the latter. The phalanges of the four outer toes are much smaller than the corresponding phalanges of the hand ; but those of the great toe are larger than those of the thumb. The shafts of the first row of pha- langes in the four outer toes are compressed laterally and narrowed in the middle ; those of the second row, more especially the fourth and fifth, are very short, their length scarcely exceeding their breadth. The last two phalanges of the little toe are in adults not unfrequently con- nected by bone into one piece. Sesamoid Bones.—Two sesamoid bones, developed in the tendons of the flexor brevis hallucis, lie side by side in the plantar wall of the first metatarsophalangeal joint, and glide in the grooves on the head of the first metatarsal bone. Small sesamoid bones sometimes occur in the corresponding joints of the other toes. THE BONES OP THE FOOT AS A WHOLE. The foot is narrowest at the heel, and as it passes forwards becomes broader as far as the heads of the metatarsal bones. The posterior ex- tremity of the calcaneum is inclined slightly inwards. The astragalus, overhanging the sustentaculum tali, inclines inwards from the calcaneum so much that its external superior border is directly over the middle line of the calcaneum, and hence the internal malleolus appears more prominent than the external. The foot is arched from behind forwards, the posterior pier of the arch being formed by the heel, the anterior by the balls of the toes. The arch, indeed, may be considered as double in front, Avith a common support behind. The internal division of the arch is that which bears the greater part of the weight of the body, and is most raised from the ground ; it consists of the posterior two-thirds of the calcaneum, the navicular and cuneiform bones, and the three inner toes; the outer arch is formed by the calcaneum in its AA’hole length, the cuboid boue, and the fourth and fifth toes. Besides being- arched longitudinally, the foot presents likewise a transverse arch, formed behind by the cuboid and three cuneiform bones, and in front by the metatarsal bones. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Hip-bone.—The hip-bone is formed from the three principal pieces previously mentioned, viz., the ilium, ischium, and os pubis, and from various others of an epiphysial nature. Ossification commences in the cartilage of the ilium a little later than in other large bones, the deposit of bone beginning above the ilio-sciatic notch in the 8th or 9th week. This is followed by similar deposits in the thick part of the ischium below the acetabulum in the 3rd month, and in the superior ramus of the pubis in the 4th or 6th month. At birth the greater part of the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, the body and inferior ramus of the pubis are still cartilaginous; ossification, however, from the three primary centres has extended into the margin of the acetabulum.BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 124 In the 7th or 8th year the rami of the ischium and pubis become completely united by bone. The parts which meet in the acetabulum are still separated by a triradiate strip of cartilage, which from its shape has been called the Y cartilage. This cartilage begins to be ossified from one or more centres about the age of puberty, and the intermediate bone or epiphysis so formed is united to the neighbouring parts about the 17th or 18th year. Epiphyses are likewise A, the condition of the bone at birth. Bone has spread from three nuclei into the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which meet in the cartilage of the acetabulum. B, from a child under six years of age. The rami of the ischium and pubis are farther ossified, but still separate. C, a bone of two or three years later, in which the rami are united. D, the bone of the right side from a person of about twenty years. Union has taken place in the acetabulum, and the additional epiphyses are seen in the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the ischial tuberosity, and the margin of the symphysis pubis. In A, B, and C, 1, ilium; 2, ischium; 3, pubis; below D, 4, separated Y-shaped piece formed of several fragments which begin to ossify about the 14th year, and often unite into this form before the completion of the acetabulum ; 5, epiphysis of the crest; 6, that of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 7, that of the symphysis pubis ; 8, that of the* anterior inferior spine of the ilium. formed in the cartilage of the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, the anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and the symphysis pubis. These begin to ossify soon after puberty, and unite with the main bone from the 23rd to the 25th year. The pelvis of the foetus and young child is of very small capacity in propor- tion to the size of the body, and those viscera which are afterwards contained for the most part in the true pelvis occupy a part of the abdominal cavity. The inclination of the pelvis is considerably greater in early life than in the adult. The femur is developed from one principal ossific centre for the shaft which appears in the 7th week, and from four epiphyses, the centres for which appear in the following order;—A single nucleus for the lower extremity appears shortly before birth, one for the head appears in the 1st year, one for the great tro- chanter in the 4th year, and one for the small trochanter in the 13th or 14th year. These epiphyses become united to the shaft in an order the reverse of that of their appearance. The small trochanter is united about the 17th year, the great trochanter about the 18th year, the head from the 18th to the 19th year, and the lower extremity soon after the 20th year. The neck of the femur is formed by extension of ossification from the shaft. The patella is formed in the 3rd month by a deposit of cartilage in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris muscle. In this cartilage ossification Fig. 102. li Fig. 102.—Ossification of the hip-bone (R. Quain).OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF TIIE LEG AND FOOT. 125 begins from a single centre during the third year, and is completed about the age of puberty. Fig. 103. K Fig. 103.—Ossification of the femur (R. Quain). A, from a foetus under eight months ; the body is osseous, both ends are cartilaginous. B, from a child at birth, showing a nucleus in the lower epiphysis. C, from a child of about a year old, showing a nucleus in the head. D, at the fifth or sixth year. Ossification has extended from the shaft into the neck, and a nucleus has appeared in the great trochanter. E, near the age of puberty, showing more complete ossification and a nucleus in the lesser trochanter. 1, shaft ; 2, lower extremity ; 3, head ; 4, great trochanter ; 5, small trochanter. C, D, & E are represented considerably, A and B very little, under the natural size. The tibia and fibula each present, besides the principal centre for the shaft, a superior and an inferior epiphysis. In the tibia the centre for the shaft appears in the 7th week; that for the upper extremity, including both tuber- osities and the tubercle, appears most frequently before, but sometimes after birth ; and that for the inferior extremity and internal malleolus appears in the 2nd year. The tubercle is occasionally formed from a separate centre. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite in the 18th or 19th year, the upper epiphysis and shaft in the 21st or 22nd year. In the fibula the centre for the shaft appears rather later than in the tibia ; that for the lower extremity appears in the 2nd year, and that for the upper, unlike that of the tibia, not till the 3rd or 4th year. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite about the 21st year, the upper epiphysis and shaft about the 24th year. The tarsal bones are ossified in cartilage each from a single nucleus, with the exception of the os calcis, which in addition to its proper osseous centre, has an epiphysis upon its posterior extremity. The principal nucleus of the os calcis appears in the 6th month of foetal life ; its epiphysis begins to be ossified in the 10th year, and is united to the tuberosity in the 16th or 16th year. The nucleus of the astragalus appears in the 7th month ; that of the cuboid about the time of birth ; that of the external cuneiform in the 1st year; that of the internal cuneiform in the 3rd year ; that of the middle cuneiform in the 4th year; and that of the navicular in the 4th or 6th year. The metatarsal bones and phalanges agree respectively with the correspond- ing bones of the hand, in the mode of their ossification. Each bone is formed from a principal piece and one epiphysis ; and while in the four outer metatarsal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In the first meta-126 BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 104. C Fig. 104.—Ossification of the Tibia (R. Quain). A, some weeks before birth ; the shaft is ossified ; the ends are cartilaginous. B, at birth, showing the commencement of a nucleus in the upper epiphysis. C, at the third year, showing the nucleus of the lower epiphysis. D, at about eighteen or twenty years, showing the lower epiphysis united, while the upper remains separate. The upper epiphysis is seen to include the tubercle. E, shows an example of a separate centre for the tubercle. 1, shaft; 2, superior epiphysis; 2*, separate centre for the tubercle ; 3, inferior epiphysis. Fig. 105. Fig. 105.—Ossification of the Fibula (R. Quain). A, at birth. The shaft ossified ; the ends cartilaginous. B, at two years, showing a nucleus in the lower epiphysis. C, at about four years, showing the nucleus of the upper epiphysis ; the lower ought to have been shown as more advanced. D, at about twenty years; the lower end is complete, but the upper epiphysis is still separate. 1, shaft; 2, lower epiphysis ; 3, upper epiphysis.OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF TIIE FOOT. 127 terminal phalanx of the great toe ; 11, terminal phalanx ; 11*, its epiphysis. Fig. 106. Fig. 106.—Ossification of the bones of the foot (B. Quain). A, right foot of a fcetus of six months. The metatarsal hones and digital phalange? have each their shafts ossified from their primary centres; the tarsus is wholly cartila- ginous, excepting the os calcis, in which the nucleus of bone has just appeared. B, foot of a fcetus of seven or eight months. The astragalus shows a nucleus. C, from a child at birth ; the cuboid has begun to ossify. I), about a year old, showing a nucleus in the external cuneiform. E, in the third year ; ossification has reached the internal cuneiform. F, about four years old, showing ossification in the middle cuneiform and navicular bones, and in the epiphyses of the metatarsal bones and phalanges. Gr, about the age of puberty. Ossification is nearly complete in the tarsal bones ; an epiphysis has been formed on the tuberosity of the os calcis, and the epiphyses of the metatarsal bones and phalanges are shown separate. 1, nucleus of the os calcis ; 1* in Gr, the epiphysis of the os calcis ; 2, nucleus of the astragalus ; 3, of the cuboid ; 4, of the external cuneiform ; 5, of the internal cuneiform ; 6, of the navicular; 7, of the middle cuneiform; 8, metatarsal bones; 8*, distal epiphysis of the second metatarsal bone ; 8', proximal epiphysis of the first; 9, first phalanx of the second toe; 9*, proximal epiphysis of this phalanx ; 9', that of the first phalanx of the great toe; 10, second phalanx ; 10*, the epiphysis of this phalanx; 10', epiphysis of theMORPHOLOGY OF THE BOXES OF THE LIMBS. 128 tarsal bone there is also to be observed, as in the first metacarpal (see p. 103), a tendency to the formation of a second or distal epiphysis (A. Thomson). In the metatarsal bones the nuclei of the shafts appear in the Sth or 9th week. The epiphyses appear from the 3rd to the Sth year, and unite with the shafts from the 18th to the 20th year. The nuclei of the shafts of the phalanges appear in the 9th or 10th week. The epiphyses appear from the 4th to the 8th year, and unite with the shafts from the 19th to the 21st year. MORPHOLOGY OP THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. Relation to the Axial Skeleton.—Anatomists have generally agreed to look upon the relation which the bones of the limbs bear to the rest of the skeleton as that of appendages to the trunk, hence their distinction as appendicular parts of the axial skeleton ; and most are also disposed to regard these appendages as similar radiations or extensions from one or more of the vertebral segments in two determinate situations of the trunk. But opinions are still divided as to the typical number of the vertebral somatomes which are involved, and as to the exact mor- phological nature of the parts which form the radiations. The existence in both of a supporting arch in relations somewhat resembling those of the ribs, and the division of this arch at the first joints of the limbs (shoulder and hip-joints) into an upper or dorsal and a lower or ventral section are easily recognised; in the lower limb the dorsal being firmly attached to the side of the sacrum, while in the upper, the ventral part of the arch abuts on the sternum. But it does not appear to be yet determined in the case of the pelvic arch what is the exact morphological nature of the lateral.mass of the sacrum, and in both limbs it is still doubtful what is the precise homological relation of the arch to the vertebras. The fact, however, that a quinquifid division of the peripheral parts of both limbs is constant in man and a certain number of animals, and that in no animals above fishes is there a greater number of elements than five, while in many animals some of the elements may be absent or abortive, together with the remarkably regular passage of a certain number of spinal nerves from the trunk to the limb, of which five are of considerable size in man and those animals possessing the limb elements complete, appears favourable to the view that both limbs have prolonged into them the elements of five vertebral segments, and it is generally held that these elements follow each other in a similar order in the two limbs from the cephalic to the caudal part of the vertebral axis, so that the pollex and radial elements occupy the cephalic side of the upper, while the hallux and tibia take the same place in the lower limb. (See Owen “ On the Nature of Limbs,” Goodsir “ On the Morphological Constitution of Limbs,” in Edin. New Philos. Journ., 1857.) Homological Comparison of Upper and Lower Limbs.—A certain anato- mical correspondence between the upper and lower limbs, which is apparent to common observation, is admitted in even a fuller degree by most scientific anatomists as the result of a careful comparison of the form, structure, and relations of their bones, as well as of their other parts. But very different views have been taken of the nature and extent of the comparison which may be made between them. Thus Vicq d’Azyr compared the bones of the upper limb of one side of the body to the bones of the lower limb of the other; and Bourgery and Cruveilhier regarded the upper end of the tibia as homologous with that of the ulna, while they compared its lower end to that of the radius. But all such fanciful views have now yielded to the fuller appreciation of hour ological correspondence which has resulted from a more careful comparison of structure in a wide series of animals, and the study' of their transformations in enbryonic development; and thus the general conclusion has been formed, that the thoracic and pelvic limbs are constructed on the same general type in man and animals, both as regards the attaching girdles of the shoulder and pelvis, and in the three several sections of which each limb is composed. There are, however, certain modifications of that general plan, leading to considerable differences in the form, size, and number of the individual parts in different animals, which appear to be in a great measure related to the different uses to which the upperCOMPARISON OF SHOULDER AND PELVIC GIRDLES. 120 and lower limbs are respectively applied ; as, for example, in the upper limb of man, the breadth of the shoulders, caused by the interposition of the clavicle, the greater extent of motion in the shoulder joint, the eversion of the humerus, and the forward flexed attitude of the elbow-joint, the arrangements for pro- nation and supination by rotation of the radius and hand, and the opposability of the thumb, all have reference to the freedom, versatility, and precision of the movements of the upper limb as an organ of prehension and touch ; while in the lower limb, the comparatively fixed condition and arched form of the pelvic girdle, the greater strength of the bones, the close-fitting of the hip-joint, the inversion of the femur, the backward flexure of the knee-joint, the arched form of the foot, and non-opposability of the great toe, have all manifest relation to the support of the trunk and pelvis, and their movements upon the lower limbs. In the lower animals, greater modifications in the form of both limbs arc to be observed, obviously adapted to their different functions in each case. Without attempting to follow out this subject by any detailed reference to comparative anatomy or development, it may be useful to state here shortly the more probable conclusions which have been formed with respect to the homo- logical correspondence of the several parts of the upper and lower limbs.* Shoulder and Pelvic Girdles.—With respect to the attaching bones of the two limbs, it is generally held that the blade of the scapula corresponds with the ilium, each of them forming the dorsal section of their respective arches : and the greatest difference between them consisting in the scapula being entirely free from bony articulation with the vertebral column, and capable therefore of considerable motion, while the ilium is firmly jointed to the lateral mass of the sacrum. The ventral part of the shoulder-girdle, completed by the articulation of the clavicles with the sternum, presents no doubt at first sight some similarity to the meeting of the ossa pubis at the symphysis; and thus at one time the clavicle and the pubis were looked upon as homologous bones. But the fuller knowledge of comparative anatomy has more recently led to the adoption of a different view, according to which it appears more probable that the pubis represents rather the precoracoid of the Monotremata and of Reptiles, while, as before believed, the coracoid process of man, originally separate, and typically a distinct bone, is represented in the pelvic girdle by the ischium. Thus, then, it appears that the clavicle is not repeated in the lower limb girdle; and in the place of the very imperfect coracoid process of man and most mammals, there exists in the lower limb a double ventral branch (pubis and ischium) most probably corresponding morphologically to the precoracoid and coracoid of the Monotremata and Reptiles. The clavicle has, indeed, by some been held to be represented by Poupart’s ligament, but it seems on the whole more probable that there is no homologue of the clavicular arch in the lower limb. The marsupial bone of the pouched mammals does not represent the clavicle, but lies in the situation of the upper or mesial pillar of the external inguinal aperture. With regard to the comparison to be established between the individual parts of the scapula and ilium, still greater difficulty prevails than in the general determinations before mentioned. When looked at only in man, the iliac fossa appears at first sight to be the most obvious representative of the subscapular fossa ; while the dorsum ilii seems to contain within its limits parts correspond- ing to both the supra- and infraspinous fossae. But when our observation extends to a series of different animals, this view loses its apparent probability, and a different mode of comparison is forced upon us. It then appears obvious that the iliac fossa does not at least correspond to the subscapular; but the full deter- mination of the homologies of the different parts of the scapula and ilium, is one of the most difficult parts of this intricate subject. Two different views have lately been brought forward, the one supported by Flower, according to which the scapula and ilium are supposed to have undergone rotation with reference to the axis of the limbs in different directions, the scapula backwards, the ilium * It is right to mention that, while ill the comparison here given most British and European authors coincide, opinions widely different from these are held by several com- parative anatomists of distinction in America, among whom may be mentioned Agassiz, Wvman, Wilder, and Coues. VOL. X. K130 MORPHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS Fife. 108. Fig. 107. Figs. 107 & 108.—Sketch OF THE BONES OF THE THORACIC AND PELVIC LIMBS SO PLACED AS TO SHOW CORRESPONDING TARTS IN BOTH. (A. T.) i The preaxial borders of both limbs are towards the reader’s right hand, and the dorsal or true ex- tensor surfaces are shown throughout the whole ex- tent of the limbs. The somewhat artificial repre- sentation given in these figures cannot be obtained from a single view of the specimens in one position, but it is easily brought out by slightly shifting the bones or changing the point of view. The hu- meral tuberosities are separated so as to show them on the borders of the bone. Fig. 107, Thoracic Limb : ssp, supraspinous or prescapular fossa; isp, in- fraspinous or postscapular fossa ; ssc, a small part of subscapular fossa ; bs, base of scapula ; sa, su- perior angle ; ia, inferior angle; sp, spine ; ac, acromion; cr, coracoid process ; gb, glenoid bor- der with place of attach- ment of triceps muscle; gc, glenoid cavity; h, humerus, preaxial border; tm, large or preaxial tuber- osity ; tp, small or post- axial tuberosity; cr, radial condyle; cu, ulnar con- dyle ; r, radius; u,ulna ; o, olecranon; px, pollex side; pi, pisiform and postaxial side of hand. Fig. 108, Pelvic Limb: ss, sacral surface of ilium ; il, iliac fossa ; di, a small part of dorsum ilii or gluteal sur- face ; ic, crest of ilium ; as, anterior superior spinous process ; ipl, ilio- pectineal line; ep, pec- tineal eminence; is, in- ferior spine and attach- ment of rectus muscle ; cc, cotyloid cavity ; sp, symphysis pubis; isc, ischium ; /, femur, its preaxial border ; tip, lesser or preaxial trochanter ; trm, greater or postaxial trochanter; ct, tibial condyle ; cf, fibular condyle ; p, patella ; t, tibia ; tt, tubercle of tibia ; fi, fibula ; ho:, hallux ; ca, calcaneal tuberosity.COMPARISON OF THE ARM AND LEG BONES. 131 forwards, in such a manner that the prescapular fossa (supraspinous of man) ■corresponds to the sacral surface of the ilium, the postscapular (infraspinous of man) to the iliac fossa or surface, and the subscapular to the gluteal. (See Flower, “ Osteology of the Mammalia,” and Joum. of Anat., vol iv., 1870.) According to the other view, maintained by Humphry, the prescapular and iliac fossa; are regarded as homologous, and the postscapular fossa as corresponding with the dorsum ilii or gluteal surface, the subscapular surface being represented by the sacral surface of the ilium. (Humphry, in Journ. of Anat., vol. v.: see also Mivart, in Linn. Soc. Trans. 1866, and Rolleston, in the same, 1869.) In the more developed forms of the scapula and ilium, in which the muscular fossae are of large extent, it is almost impossible to trace the relations now referred to ; but in the comparison of the simple forms of these bones which belong to some animals with those of others throughout the series, resemblances are per- ceived which give to the views of Flower the greater share of probability. In such simpler forms of scapula and ilium these bones may be described as three- sided prismatic rods, in which an internal surface is separated from two external surfaces by anterior and posterior ridges, and the two external surfaces are divided by an external ridge which descends from the dorsal extremity of the bones to the cavity of the joints. It is in this external ridge, glenoid in the scapula and cotyloid in the ilium, and which includes in both the attachment of the great extensor muscle of the limb, that the key to the homologies of the bones is probably to be found. Further observations, especially on the disposition ■of the muscles, are necessary to determine this question satisfactorily. Bones of the Limbs.—In making the comparison of the bones composing the limbs themselves, it may be proper to revert to the simpler relations subsisting between the limbs and the trunk or vertebral axis of the body in earlier embryonic life, and to remind the reader that there is a determinate and similar position in which the elements of the limb-forming parts are developed from the side of the vertebral stem or trunk (Humphry). In the very earliest stage, while the embryo still occupies the prone position in the blastoderm, the limbs may be said to bud out laterally from the dorsal plates as flattish semilunar flaps, so that Fig. 109.—Lateral view op Fig. 109. THE HUMAN EMBRYO OF ABOUT SEVEN WEEKS, SHOW- INS THE RUDIMENTARY LIMBS IN THEIR SECOND position. (A. T.) Mag- nified 7 DIAMETERS. r, preaxial or radial and pollex border of the thoracic limb; u, its postaxial or ulnar and little finger border ; t, preaxial or tibial and hallux border of the pelvic limb ; /, its postaxial or fibular and little toe border. they present a dorsal and a ventral surface, coinciding with these respective surfaces of the trunk : but in the next stage, when the limbs come to be folded •against the body in the ventral direction, although the original relation to the trunk is undisturbed, their axes have now come to lie nearly perpendicularly to the transverse plane of the vertebral axis, and the position of the limbs is such that in each there is one border which looks towards the head, and another which looks towards the tail. To these borders of the limbs Huxley and Flower have given the names of preaxial and postaxial respectively, as indicating their posi- tion before and behind the axis of the limbs. When at a somewhat later stage of development, the divisions of the limbs make their appearance, and more especially when the quinquifid division of the digits in the hand and foot becomes perceptible, it is obvious that the thumb and radius in the one limb, and che great toe and tibia in the other, occupy corresponding cephalic and preaxiaL K 2MORPHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. 132 situations ; and it is not difficult to trace from these the corresponding relations of the parts in the upper division of the limbs ; and thus the radial condyle of the humerus with the great tuberosity are preaxial, while the lesser tuberosity, ulnar condyle, ulna, and little finger are postaxial. In the lower limb, the small trochanter, internal condyle, tibia and great toe are preaxial, while the great trochanter, external condyle, fibula, and little toe, are postaxial. And at the same time the dorsal or extensor surface of the limbs is external, and the ventral or flexor surface is internal. Very soon, however, in the higher animals and in man, farther changes operate in bringing about the permanent form. First, there is the eversion of the humerus so as to place the radial condyle outwards, and the inversion of the femur so as to place the tibial condyle inwards. In the upper limb of man, the radius being in semipronation, no material change occurs in the position of the hand, the thumb hanging naturally forward ; but in animals destined to rest on the palmar aspect of the hand or digits, important changes occur in the position of the radius by which, as this bone is brought forward upon the humerus, and its lower end carried inwards, the manus or its elements are placed permanently in the prone position, with the first or radial digit inwards. In the foot no such change is required, as already by the internal rotation of the femur at its upper part, the conditions for plantar support have been secured, and the first or tibial digit is on the inner side. Farther, in man, as the body attains its full development, both limbs are extended in a line parallel to the axis of the trunk, the upper dropping loosely from the shoulder-joint with the greatest freedom of motion ; the lower more closely articulated in the hip-joint, and suited to give film support to the body in the erect posture. It is proper to mention here a very ingenious view of the homologies of the limbs which has been suggested by Martins, according to which the humerus is to be regarded as virtually twisted upon itself to the extent of 90° at the neck, and 90° more from that part downwards, or to the extent of 180° in its whole length. By this torsion, Martins accounts for the deviation of the external condyle of the humerus from the original or typical position which he considers to remain in the femur, and thus he endeavours to show, and it must be admitted with some plausibility, how, by supposing the humerus to be untwisted, an. exact correspondence of the surfaces and borders can be established between the humerus and femur. Gegenbaur has adopted this view, and has added some facts in illustration of it. (Ch. Martins, “Nouv. Compar. des Membres Pelviens et Thoraciques, &c., deduite de la Torsion de THumerus.” Mem. de l’Acad. de Montpellier, tom. iii., 1857. Gegenbaur, “ On the Torsion of the Humerus,” in Jenaischen Zeitsch. and Annal. des Sciences Nat., iv., p. 50.) But it is easy to prove, by reference to the embryonic condition, that the actual outward displacement of the lower end of the humerus in the progress of its formation does not exceed 90° in quadrupeds, whilst in man it is considerably less. Martins has also proposed the view, that in order to compare the leg with the forearm, it is necessary to look upon the upper part of the tibia (corre- sponding in the main to the radius) as including, or having had transferred to it as it were, the olecranon process and upper part of the ulna; and he thus accounts for the attachment of the great extensor tendon of the leg to the tibia, through the patella, which, according to his scheme, represents the olecranon, instead of to the fibula. Ingenious as these views undoubtedly are, they are liable to considerable objections on embryological grounds, and though not to be rejected altogether, cannot be considered as supplying the key to the explana- tion of the homologies of the limbs. Hand and Foot.—The similarity of the digital and metacarpal bones of the hand with those of the foot in number, form, and connections is so great that the homo- logical correspondence of these bones is immediately recognised. The main differ- ences between them consist in the greater length of the digits of the hand, and the opposability of the thumb to the other fingers through its mobility at the carpo-metacarpal articulation,—conditions which are peculiarly characteristic of man, and do not exist in the same form or degree in any of the lower animals. Between the carpus and tarsus there is also considerable general similarity, -especially in the bones of the distal series ; but in those of the proximal row thereFig. 110. COMPARISON OF HAND AND FOOT. or metatarsal bones. 133 Fig. 110.—Dorsal surface of the right manus of a are some differences which may be referred to here at greater length. There can, indeed, be no doubt as to the homological correspondence of the trapezium, trape- zoid and magnum with the internal, middle and external cuneiform bones of the tarsus respectively, nor of the unciform with the cuboid bone; and all the more water tortoise. (Flower after Gegenbaur.) R, radius ; U, ulna ; r, radiale; i, intermedium ; ■u, ulnare ; c, centrale ; 1—5, five carpal bones of the distal row ; m1—m5, five metacarpals. in the case of the last two bones, that it is found that in the Chelonia and some other reptiles and amphibia, the second series of carpal and tarsal hones are increased to five by the division of the unciform of the hand and cuboid of the foot into two each ; thus giving one carpal or tarsal bone for articulation with each of the five metacarpal Upon the homologies of the proximal series of bones, new light has been thrown by the researches of Gegenbaur, (“ Untersuch. zur Vergleich. Anat.. &c., Carpus and Tarsus,” Leipzig, 1864). In the simplest and most constant form of this series in the carpus, he distinguishes typically three bones, viz., a radial, an intermediate, and an ulnar, corresponding respectively to the scaphoid, lunar and pyramidal bones of human anatomy. The pisiform he re- gards as an osseous element developed in the tendon of a muscle (flexor carpi ulnaris), and therefore not holding the same rank in the series as the other bones, but constituting an ulnar sesamoid. In the foot Gegenbaur shows that the astray- ulus corresponds to the united scaphoid and lunar of the hand, a condition of these two bones not unfrequent among the carnivora, or to the proximal parts Fig. 111. Fig. 112. Fig. 111.—Dorsal surface of the right carpus of man (Flower), i- s, scaphoid ; l, lunar ; c, cuneiform or pyramidal; p, pisiform ; tm, trapezium; td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; u, unciform ; I—V, five metacarpals. Fig. 112.—Dorsal surface of the carpus of a baboon (Flower). s, scaphoid ; l, lunar ; c, cuneiform or pyramidal ; p, pisiform ; tm, trapezium : td, trapezoid ; m, magnum ; u, unciform ; rs, radial sesamoid ; ce, os centrale ; I—V, five metacarpals. at least of these bones. In some mammals (Siniioe and Rodentia), as well as in reptiles and amphibia, another bone, the os centrale, has long been known to exist, interposed between the bones of the proximal and distal rows. This element is not represented in the osseous carpus of man, but at an early period of fcetal life a rudiment is present in the form of a small independent cartilage placed between the scaphoid, magnum, trapezium, and trapezoid. As described by Rosenberg and Kolliker it is distinct in the second month, being formed134 MORPHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. simultaneously with the cartilages of the other carpal hones; it then gradually dwindles from the palmar to the dorsal surface, and by the fourth month has entirely disappeared. (E. Rosenberg, Morphol. Jahrb. i. 83 ; Kolliker, Entwick- lungsgeschichte, 2nd Ed., p. 497.) The determination of the homology of the navicular bone of the tarsus is not yet fully made out, but it seems most probable that this bone corresponds not to any single or entire bone of the carpus, but rather to the os centrale, together with a detached portion of the scaphoid. In some animals there is a tenth separate bone of the carpus, which seems most nearly to correspond to the tuberosity of the scaphoid : this constitutes the typical radial sesamoid of Gegenbaur, and the navicular bone of the tarsus may perhaps correspond to this along with the os centrale. It is interesting to remark that this bone is sometimes found separate in the human hand. (See W. Gruber, Struthers, Turner, and others, in Joum. of Anat., and Mivart “ On the Appen- dicular Skeleton of the Primates” in Philos. Trans. 1807.) The os calcis is generally believed to correspond most nearly with the pyramidal of the carpus, and by some it has been held to include the pisiform,—a view not participated in by Gegenbaur, but of the truth of which any one will be convinced by the inspection of the hand and foot of the bear. It is deserving of remark that in the young of that animal the much enlarged pisiform possesses an epi- physis of its own, exactly similar to the one known as existing on the tuberosity of the calcaneum,—a fact observable also in other animals, and which of itself refutes the view taken by some that the pisiform corresponds to the epiphysis of the calcaneal tuberosity. (Allen Thomson.) The following tables present a synoptical view of the corresponding or homo- logous bones or other parts in the thoracic and pelvic limbs. I.—Table of the Homologous Bones in the Thoeacic and Pelvic Limbs. Thokacic Limb. Scapula Precoracoid Coracoid Glenoid cavity Clavicle Humerus Great tuberosity Small tuberosity External condyle Radius Ulna . Carpus Metacarpus . Pollex Digital phalanges Pelvic Limb. Ilium. Pubis. Ischium. . Cotyloid cavity. Absent. Femur. . . Small trochanter. . Great trochanter. . . Internal condyle. Tibia. Fibula. Tarsus. Metatarsus. Hallux. Digital phalanges. II.—Table of the Homologous Bones of the Caepus and Taesus. Caepus. Taesus. Typical Karnes. Names in Hitman Anatomy. Typical Names. Radiale . Scaphoid \ A df.vno’nlnQ < i Tibiale. Intermedium . . Lunar / iXoui.Uiq Cvi UO • j Intermedium. Ulnare Ulnare sesamoideum Pyramidal Pisiform ' | Os calcis . . < j Fibulare . . . j Fibulare sesa- moideum . . Centrale . . . Absent . | Navicular . < [ (Centrale) . . Radiale sesamoideum (part of scaphoid) | (Tibiale sesamoi- deum) . . . Carpale I. . . . Trapezium . Int. Cuneiform Tarsale i. II. Trapezoid . . Mid. Cuneif. . II. III. . . . Magnum . Ext. Cuneif. . III. \ iv. 1 V. iv. . .! i Unciform. . Cuboid . S135 ERECT ATTITUDE OF THE SKELETON. III.—Tabus or the Homologous (according Scapula. Supraspinous fossa . . . Infraspinous fossa Subscapular fossa Base Spine and acromion Superior angle .... Inferior angle Superior or coracoid border . External or glenoid border Parts op the Scapula and Iliuii to Flower). Ilium. . Sacral surface. . Iliac fossa. . Gluteal or dorsal surface. . Iliac crest. . Ilio-pectineal line and eminence. . Posterior superior spine. . Anterior superior spine. . Posterior or ischial border. . Anterior or cotyloid border. ADAPTATION OF THE SKELETON TO THE ERECT ATTITUDE. The axial skeleton of man is, for the puiposes of station and progression, raised more fully to the vertical position than is the case in any animal; and along with this the lower limbs are extended in lines parallel to the axis of the trunk. The feet rest on the ground by the contact of the heel and the balls of the toes, the centre of gravity of the body falling within the basis of support. For the maintenance of this attitude, the constant action of the muscles passing- over the ankle-joint is more immediately necessary. But at the knee and hip- joint, it is mainly by the mechanism of the ligaments and other parts of the joints, and less directly by muscular action, that the erect attitude is maintained, as will be more fully shown in the description of the different articulations. There are, besides, many peculiarities in the construction of the body, and especially of the skeleton, which are associated with the assumption of the erect posture, and although many of them have been noticed in the description of the several sets of bones, it may still be useful to recapitulate them briefly in this place. It may first be remarked that the full development of these peculiarities belongs to the adult condition. In the infant, while still unable to walk, the large proportional size of the head, amounting to nearly a fifth of the whole body, the comparative straightness of the vertebral column, or absence of the curves which characterise the spine of the adult, the shortness of the lower limbs, and incompleteness of their structure, aH contribute to render the assumption of the erect attitude by the child, for a time, difficult and insecure. Thus the middle distance between the vertex of the head and the foot in a child is situated some- what above the umbilicus, while in the adult it is generally at the upper border of the pubis, or even lower, in some part of the symphysis. In the child also, from the large dimensions of the head and upper part of the body, the centre of gravity is carried to a considerably higher point than in the adult. The skull of man differs from that of animals in being nearly balanced on the vertebral column, the condyles of the occipital bone being brought forward to near the middle of the base by the comparative shortness of that part of the skull which lies in front of the foramen magnum, and the projection backwards of that which lies behind it. In animals the skull extends forwards from the extremity of the column, and is sustained by the elastic ligamentum nuchae, represented in man by a comparatively feeble structure which passes between the external occipital protuberance, and the spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae. Together with this altered relation of the head to the spine, the plane of the foramen magnum, which in quadrupeds is vertical, becomes in man hori- zontal, or even inclined somewhat upwards anteriorly. The spinal column, by its pyramidal form, is fitted to sustain the weight which bears down upon its lower part, and by means of its different curvatures possesses elasticity and strength combined, and allows considerable range of motion to the trunk, without removal of the centre of gravity from within its base. The strong and expanded sacrum is the immediate means of transferring the weight of the trunk to the hip-bones and lower limbs. The pelvis is of peculiar breadth in man, presenting an upper and lower archERECT ATTITUDE OF THE SKELETON. 13G which meet at the hip-joints, and is so inclined that a vertical line descending from the centre of gravity of the body is in a plane slightly behind the centres of motion of the hip-joints. The breadth of the pelvis enables the balance to be more easily maintained in lateral movements of the body by compensating in- clinations of different parts to opposite sides of the basis of support, and the long neck of the femur gives an advantageous insertion to the muscles by which the balance of the body is principally preserved. The hip-bone is mainly distinguished from the same bone in animals by the breadth of its iliac portion, which gives support to the abdominal viscera, and attachment to the greatly developed iliac and gluteal muscles. The lower limbs are remarkable for their length and strength. The femur is greatly elongated, its length considerably exceeding that of the tibia,—a condi- tion which is requisite not only to give a sufficient extent of stride, but also to enable the body to be balanced in different degrees and varieties of stooping. The foot of man alone among animals has an arched instep, and it likewise presents a great breadth of sole. The great toe is distinguished by its full development, and especially from that of the quadrumana, by its want of opposa- bility, being constructed, not for grasping, but for supporting the weight of the body, and giving spring to the step. While stability and strength are thus provided in the lower limbs, mobility and lightness are secured in the upper. This is apparent on comparison of the .shoulder, elbow, and wrist, with the hip, knee, and ankle. In the hand, also, the freely moveable phalanges are as long as the caipal and metacarpal bones taken together, while in the foot they are not a third of the length of the tarsal and metatarsal bones,ARTHROLOGY THE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. Various Forms of Joints.—The name of articulation, synonymous with joint, is given in descriptive anatomy to the connection subsisting in the recent skeleton between any of its denser component parts, whether bones or cartilages. In all instances some softer substance intervenes between the bones, uniting them together, or clothing the surfaces which are opposed ; but the manner in which the several pieces of the skeleton are thus connected varies to a great degree, both as to the nature of the uniting substances, and the extent of movement which they allow. In some instances, as in the cranial bones, the closeness of the apposition, the unevenness of the fitting surfaces or edges, and the small amount and dense nature of the intervening sub- stance (periosteum), admit of no perceptible movement. In other instances of continuous union the extremities of the bones are placed at such a distance, and the intervening substance (ligament or cartilage) is so yielding, that bending or other movements may take place. But in the greater number of articulations the apposed surfaces of bone are not united either directly or mediately with each other, but are free, and are covered with plates of smooth cartilage, the surfaces of which fit accurately together, while the bones are held together by ligamentous structures placed in the vicinity of the joint. In such articulations the bones are capable of gliding or moving upon each other, the extent and directions of such movements varying with the shape of the opposed cartilaginous surfaces, and the form and attachments of the ligamentous and other bands which unite them. It is upon distinctions such as those now adverted to that the various kinds of joints or articulations have been brought under the three classes of Synarthrosis, Amphiarthrosis, and Diarthrosis. Synarthrosis means direct or immediate union, and comprehends the joints with no appreciable motion. It is found chiefly in the various forms of suture by which most of the bones of the head are united. The suture is serrated or dentated when the contiguous margins of the bones are subdivided or broken up into projecting points and recesses by which they fit very closely to oue another, as in the borders of most of the tabular bones of the cranium. The squamous or scaly suture is that in which, as in the union of the temporal with the parietal bone, the edges are thinned and bevelled, so that one overlaps the other to a considerable extent. Harmonic suture or harmonia is the term employed to denoteTHE ARTICULATIONS IN GENERAL. 138 simple apposition of comparatively smooth surfaces or edges, as in the case of the vertical plate of the palate and the superior maxillary bones ; and the term grooved suture or schindylesis is applied to that kind of union in which one bone is received into a groove in another, as occurs with the rostrum of the sphenoid bone and the vomer. Synchondrosis is another form of immoveable articulation, in which a thin layer of cartilage is interposed between the bones, as in the articulation of the occipital and sphenoid bones in young persons, and the jugular process of the occipital bone with the petrous. In adult age this form of articulation generally becomes converted into bony union, and a similar tendency is observed to a variable degree in the several sutures (p. 58). Amphiarthrosis or Symphysis is the mixed articulation, or that in which there is mediate union by some intervening substance, with partial mobility. The articulations between the bodies of the vertebra, that between the two pubic bones, and that between the two first pieces of the sternum, may be taken as examples of this mode of connection. Some of the joints of this kind pass on the one hand into synarthrosis, and on the other into diarthrosis. Biarthrosis includes the complete joints, with synovial cavities sepa- rating the articular surfaces of the bones, and is attended with consider- able yet varying degrees of mobility. In this form of joint plates of cartilage cover the articular parts of the bones and present within the joint free surfaces of remarkable smoothness, and these surfaces are farther lubricated by the synovial fluid secreted from the delicate mem- brane which lines the fibrous coverings and all other parts of the articu- lar cavity except those formed by cartilage. This membrane is continuous with the margin of the articular cartilages, and along with them completely encloses the joint cavity. The bones are farther held together by fibrous tissue in the various forms of ligaments, such as membranous capsules, flat bands, or rounded cords. These ligaments, it is true, are not so tight as to maintain the bones in close contact in all positions of the joint, but are rather tightened in some positions and relaxed in others, so that in many cases they are to be looked upon chiefly as controllers of movements. The bones arc likewise held together in diarthrodial joints by atmospheric pressure, and by the surrounding muscles. The follow- ing forms of diarthrodial joint are distinguished :—1. Gliding joint (Arthrodia), having nearly flat surfaces, and admitting of only a limited amount of gliding movement, as in the articulations of the carpus and tarsus, and the articular processes of the vertebra;: 2. Hinge-joint (Gin- glymus), which admits only of flexion and extension, as the elbow and ankle : 3. Condyloid joint, allowing all varieties of angular movement and circumduction, as the wrist and metacarpo-phalangeal articulations: 4. Ball and Socket joint (Enarthrosis), in which movement can take place in every direction, as the hip and shoulder ; and 5. Pivot-joint, as in the case of the atlas and axis, and the upper radio-ulnar articulation, where only rotation is allowed. Various Kinds of Movement.—The various movements of the bones in diarthrodial joints are distinguished by different terms according to their directions, viz., angular movement, circumduction, rotation, and gliding ; but it is proper to remark that although different kinds ol movement, answering to these several terms, may readily be recognised, yet they are seldom of only one kind in any joint, but rather severalTHE VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 13!) kinds of movement are frequently combined, and they also run into one another in great variety. Angular movement is movement in such a manner as to increase or diminish the angle between two bones, so that they shall lie more or less nearly in a straight line. The different kinds of angular movement are designated by different terms according to the directions in which they take place with reference to the limb or body : thus flexion and extension indicate angular movements, which have the effect of bending or straightening parts upon one another or upon the trunk : adduction and abduction indicate angular movement to and from the mesial plane of the body, or, when fingers and toes are referred to, these terms are generally used to denote movement to and from the middle line of the hand or foot. Coaptation is a form of angular movement, in which, as in the movement of the patella on the femur the articular surface of one bone travels over that of another, so as to bring different parts of the surfaces successively into contact in the manner of a wheel rolling on the ground, this movement being usually accompanied by a certain amount of gliding. Circumduction is the movement performed when the shaft of a long bone or a part of a limb describes a cone, the apex of which is placed in the joint at or near one extremity of the bone, while the sides and base of the cone are described by the rest of the moving part. notation signifies movement of a bone round its axis without any great change of situation. Gliding is applied to that kind of movement in which the surfaces of adjacent bones are displaced without any accompanying angular or rota- tory motion, as in the movement of flat surfaces over each other in some of the carpal and tarsal articulations, or in the movement of advance and retreat of the lower jaw. In the various joints provided with synovial cavities, the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones are so formed as usually to be in close apposition or contact ; but in certain positions they are not entirely so, and there are even instances in which the separation of the surfaces must be considerable, as in the case of the patella, in some positions of the knee. In these cases the interval is filled up by folds of the synovial membrane, or by fatty processes connected with it. ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. ARTICULATIONS OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The moveable vertebra are connected together by elastic discs inter- posed between the bodies; by synovial joints between the articulating processes ; and by ligaments. ■ The intervertebral discs are plates of composite structure placed between the bodies of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum. Each is composed of a fibro-laminar part externally, and of a pulpy substance in the centre. The laminar part forms more than half of the mass. The laminae are arranged concentrically, and consist mainly of parallel bundles of fibres running obliquely between the vertebrae and attached firmly to both, the direction of the fibres being reversed in successive layers: some fibres also run nearly horizontally. The outermost of these layers consist of ordinary fibrous tissue, but the deeper and more numerous140 Fig. 113. Fig. 113. — A LU.MBAR VERTEBRA, SEEN FROM ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE TRUNK AND HEAD. laminae consist of white fibro-cartilage. The central part of the disc is a pulpy and elastic material which, when the pressure which confines ABOVE, WITH PART OF THE INTERVERTEBRAL DISC ADHERING TO THE BODY. (R. Quain.) A 1, 1, the fibrous lamirue arranged concentri- cally ; 2, the central soft substance. it is taken off by cutting through the intervertebral substance, rises up so as to assume a conical form. It is then seen to be of a lobate structure, and, examined under the microscope, exhibits a finely fibrous matrix, imbedded in which are seen numerous cells, which are not of the nature of cartilage cells, but are united together so as to form a reticular structure, which is closer in the centre of the pulp than towards the periphery. A thin cartilaginous layer covers the upper and lower surfaces of each vertebra and gives attachment to the disc, but it is incomplete towards the circumference, where the epiphyses of the body have been developed in it. It is now generally admitted that the pulp of the intervertebral disc is in part at least a remains of the chorda dorsalis ; homologous, therefore, with those larger vestiges of the chorda dorsalis which occupy the biconical cavities between the bodies of the vertebra; in fishes. According to Luschka, there is present in each disc a synovial cavity, and the lobes of the pulp are synovial villi, similar to those which are to be found in the knee and shoulder joints, but of larger size, and occupying the whole cavity ; and it is worthy of notice that in like manner secondary cavities, developed within the chorda dorsalis, are found in the inter- vertebral substance in many fishes. The same author also describes in the cervical region a synovial joint with cartilage covered surfaces, on each side, between the prominent lip of the upper surface of the body of one vertebra and the corresponding portion of the under surface of the body of the vertebra above. (Luschka, “ Die Halbgelenke des Menschlichen Korpers,” Berlin, 1858.) The discs are thickest, both absolutely, and relatively to the depth of Fig. 114.—Sagittal section THROUGH TWO LUMBAR VERTE- BRAE, SHOWING THE ARRANGE- MENT OP THE INTERVERTEBRAL disc. (R. Quain.) § 1, 2, the fibrous laminre; 3, the central soft substance : the capsule of the joint between the articular processes is represented. the vertebral bodies, in the lumbar region, and thinnest in the intervals from the third to the seventh dorsal vertebrae'. They form to- gether about a fourth of the length of the moveable part of the column. In the cervical and lumbar regions they are thicker in front than behind. Fig. 114.COMMON VERTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. 141 and the curvature of those portions of the column is due principally to the form of the discs. The anterior common ligament (fig. 122, p. 146) is a strong band placed on the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, and reaches from the axis to the firsL bone of the sacrum, becoming broader as it descends. It consists of longitudinal fibres which are dense, firm, and well-marked. The superficial fibres extend from a given vertebra to the fourth or fifth below it; the fibres beneath these pass over the bodies of one or two vertebrae ; whilst the deepest pass only between adjacent vertebra;. The fibres adhere more closely to the intervertebral discs than to the bones, and none are attached over the middle of the bodies, where the ligament is stretched across the transverse depression existing at this part ; and by this means the anterior surface of the column, especially in the thoracic region, is rendered more even. Upon the sides of the bodies there are some fibres which are thin and scattered, and reach from one bone to another. The posterior common ligament is situated within the spinal canal, lying on the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae; it extends, from the axis to the sacrum. At its upper extremity it is continuous with the posterior occipito-axial ligament. It is smooth and shining, and Fig. 115.—Tiie bodies of three lumbar vertebrae, seen from Fig. 115. BEHIND, WITH THE POSTERIOR COMMON LIGAMENT. J The arches have been removed by cutting through the pedicles. The narrowing of the posterior common ligament opposite the middle of each body, and its greater width and attachments opposite the intervertebral discs, are represented. is broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine. In the neck it extends quite across the bodies of the vertebra;, but in the back and loins it is broader opposite the intervertebral discs than at the middle of the bodies, so that its margins present a series of points or dentations with intervening concave spaces. It adheres firmly to the discs and to the contiguous margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, but it is separated from the middle of the bodies by the transverse parts of the large venous plexus. Between the ligament and the dura mater which lines the canal some loose con- nective tissue is interposed. The joints of the articular processes present each a synovial cavity Fig. 116.—The arches of three dorsal vertebras, Fig. 116. SEEN FROM BEFORE. £ The bodies of the vertebrae have been removed by saw- ing through the pedicles, to show the articular capsules and the ligamenta subflava. surrounded by a fibrous capsule. These cap- sules are longer and looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta subflava are ligaments con- sisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the laminae of the vertebrae from the axis downwards. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are attached superiorly to the anterior surface of the lamina of one vertebra some distanceARTICULATIONS OF TIIE TRUNK AND HEAD. ing in the supraspinous ligament. posterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 5, 5, supra- PART OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN, AND PART 242 Fig. 117. Fig. 117.'—Sagittal section op the upper from its inferior margin, and inferiorly to the upper margin and part of the posterior surface of the vertebra beneath. They are most dis- tinctly seen when the arches are detached from the bodies of the verte- bras, and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, and in the dorsal region are concealed by the prominent inferior margins OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, SHOWING THE AR- TICULATIONS. (A. T."after Arnold.) 1, 1, anterior common ligament; 1', anterior occipito-atlantal ligament; 2, from this figure upwards the posterior common ligament; 2', the continuation of the preceding or posterior occipito- axial ligament lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone; 3, 3, 3, these figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd cervical and 1st and 6th dorsal vertebra; ; the ligamenta subflava are seen stretching between the laminae; 4, 4, placed upon two of the interspinous liga- ments ; 4', divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the spinous ligament; 6, ligamentum nuchae ; x , its upper extremity at the external occipital pro- tuberance ; x x , its lower extremity terminat- of the laminae aud the roots of the spines. Their outer margins are close to the articular processes ; their inner margins are thickened and in contact with each other beneath the root of the spinous process. The interspinous ligaments, thin and rather membranous, have an at- tachment extending from the root to near the summit of each spinous process, and connect the inferior border of one with the superior border of that next Mow it. They are strongest in the lumbar region, and are least de- veloped in the neck. The supraspinous ligament consists of bundles of longitudinal fibres, which connect the summits of the spinous processes, and form a continuous cord from the seventh cervical vertebra to the sacrum. The superficial fibres pass down from a given vertebra to the third or fourth below it; those more deeply seated reach only from one to the next, or the second below it. The ligamentum nuchas is the continuation upwards of the supra- spinous ligament. It is, in the human subject, a thin intermuscular septum of elastic and white fibrous tissue, the most superficial part of which extends from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance, while the deeper fibres, springing from the same origin, pass to the occipital crest, and the spines of the six upper vertebra;. It is the representative of a strong elastic structure which suspends the head in the lower animals. The intertranswerse ligaments are unimportant bands extendingOCCIPITO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 143 between the transverse processes. In the lumbar region they are membranous, in the dorsal region they are rounded bundles intimately connected with the muscles of the back; and in the neck they are reduced to a few irregular fibres, which are often wanting. Movements.—The movements of flexion and extension of the vertebral column are freely allowed in the cervical and lumbar regions, but in the dorsal are limited by the small amount of intervertebral substance and the imbrication of the lamina3. The greatest bending backwards is permitted in the cervical, the greatest bending forwards in the lumbar region, especially between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae. Movements in other directions are determined chiefly by the articular processes. In the dorsal region the articular surfaces of each vertebra lie in the arc of a circle whose centre is in front, between the bodies of the vertebra:, and round this centre a certain degree of rotation is permitted. In the lumbar region, the centre of the circle in which the articular surfaces lie is placed behind, so that rotation is prevented ; the articular processes, however, permit of lateral flexion, and by combination of this with antero-posterior flexion, some degree of circumduction is produced. The articular surfaces of the cervical vertebrse, being oblique and placed in nearly the same transverse plane, allow neither pure rotation nor pure lateral flexion. They permit, besides forward and backward motion, only one other, which is rotatory round an oblique axis—the inferior articulating process of one side gliding upwards and forwards on the opposing surface, and that of the other side gliding downwards and backwards, by which a combination of lateral flexion and rotation is obtained. ARTICULATIONS OP THE ATLAS, AXIS, AND OCCIPITAL BONE. The atlas, aids, ancl occipital bone are connected by synovial articula- tions and ligaments, without the presence of intervertebral discs. Two pairs of synovial articulations, surrounded by capsular liga- ments, connect the lateral masses of the atlas with the superior articular surfaces of the axis and with the condyles of the occipital bone. The atlanto-axial capsule is strengthened at the inner and posterior part by an accessory ligament, directed downwards and inwards to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process. The transverse ligament of the atlas is a strong and thick band, which extends across the ring of the atlas, and retains the odontoid pro- Fig. IIS.—Frontal section Fig. 118. OF THE LOWER PART OF THE OCCIPITAL BONE, AND THE TWO UPPER VERTE- BP..E, BEHIND THE ARTICU- LATIONS (A. T. after Arnold), h 1, 1, posterior occipito- axial ligament turned up in two layers ; 2, 2', vertical part, and 3, 3, transverse or principal part of tlie cruci- form ligament; x , over the ueck of the odontoid process; 4, 4, alar or lateral odontoid ligaments; 5, 5, accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial capsules ; 6, C, part of the capsular ligaments of the condylar articulations ; 7, 7, capsular ligaments of the atlanto-axial articulations. ccss in its place. It is attached on each side to the tubercle below the inner border of the superior articular process. It is arched backwardsARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 144 Fig. 120.—Transverse section similar to that Fig. 120. behind the odontoid process, and is broadened out m the middle line. From the middle of its posterior surface a short thin bundle of fibres passes down to be attached to the body of the axis, whilst another passes up to the basilar process. These form, with the transverse portion, the figure of a cross, and from this arrangement is derived the term cruci- form, which is sometimes applied to the transverse ligament and its appendages together. Two synovial cavities are placed one in front and another behind the odontoid process ; the first of these is situated between the process Fig. 119.—Horizontal section through the ODONTO-ATLANTAL ARTICULATION. (A. T.) J 1, cut surface of the odontoid process ; 2, cut surface of the anterior arch of the atlas ; 3, transverse ligament; between 1 and 2, the anterior synovial cavity, and between 1 and 3, the posterior synevial cavity of the articulation ; 4, is placed on the back part of the left superior arti- cular process of the atlas ; the anterior part has been partly removed by the section. For the sake of distinctness, the synovial spaces are repre- sented somewhat wider than natural. Fig. 119. and the anterior arch of the atlas, the other between the process and the transverse ligament. The lateral or alar odontoid or check ligaments are two thick and very strong bundles of fibres, which extend from the sides of the summit of the odontoid process outwards and a little upwards to be im- shown in Fig. 118, the cruciform ligaments HAVING BEEN REMOVED. (A. T.) J 4, alar odontoid ligament ; 5, accessory atlanto- axial ligament ; 6, 7, capsular ligaments of the occipito-atlantal and the atlanto-axial articulations; 9, odontoid process ; 9, 9', middle odontoid liga- ment. planted into the rough impression on the inner side of each condyle of the occi- pital bone. Some of the fibres of the two ligaments are usually continuous across the middle line. The middle odontoid or suspensory ligament consists of fibres which pass directly upwards from the summit of the odontoid process, to the margin of the foramen magnum. The posterior occipito-axial ligament is a strong wide band, covering the cruciform and odontoid ligaments. It is attached above in the' basilar groove, and below to the body of the axis, and many of the superficial fibres are prolonged into the posterior common ligament, of which it forms the continuation upwards. The anterior occipito-atlantal ligament extends from the anterior- border of the occipital foramen, between the condyles, to the anterior arch of the atlas. It is thin, broad, and membranous ; but in the median line it is strengthened by an accessorrj ligament, thick andOCCIPITO-VERTEBRAL ARTICULATIONS. 145 round, placed in front of it, which is sometimes described as the com- mencement of the anterior common ligament. The anterior atlanto-axial ligament, likewise thin and mem- branous, except in the middle, where it is considerably thickened, extends from the anterior arch of the atlas to the body of the axis. Fig. 121. c Fig. 121.—The ligamentous structures which surround the articulations of tiie OCCIPUT AND TWO UPPER VERTEBRAS. } A, the lower part of the skull sawn transversely through the basilar process, with the atlas and axis, viewed from before. 1, the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 2, the accessory occipito-atlantal ligament ; 3, the anterior atlanto-axial ligament. B, the lower part of the skull, with three adjacent vertebra;, viewed from behind. 1, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament; 2, the posterior atlanto-axial ligament. C, the occipital bone sawn transversely through the foramen magnum, and a part of the arches of the atlas and axis removed, so as to show the posterior oceipito-axial ligament. The posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, thin and membranous, is attached superiorly to the margin of the occipital foramen behind the condyles, and interiorly to the adjacent border of the arch of the atlas. It is closely united to the dura mater. The posterior atlanto-axial ligament, similar to the preceding, connects the neural arch of the atlas with that of the axis, in the absence of ligamenta subflava. Movements.—The atlanto-axial articulation is so constructed that the head, to- gether with the atlas, is rotated on the axis ; the odontoid process serving as a pivot. The rotation is limited by the check ligaments. The occipito-atlantal articulation takes no part in rotation, hut allows the head to be freely raised or depressed upon the vertebral column. When the atlas is placed symmetrically over the axis, it is seen that the opposing articular surfaces, instead of fitting one to the other, come very slightly into contact, the surface of the axis present- ing an antero-posterio convexity, to which there is no corresponding concavity von i. l146 ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. presented by the atlas ; but a slight rotation brings the bones into a stable position, in which the anterior half of one articular surface of the axis and the posterior half of the other, are laid closely against the atlas. It will also be found that a small amount of oblique motion between the atlas and occipital bone is permitted, by which the anterior half of one condyle and the posterior- part of the other may be rested together on the atlas, and that that is the position of greatest stability. This oblique position is that into which the bones are brought when there is any lateral flexure of the column, as is the case in the most natural and easy attitudes. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS. The articulations of the ribs may be divided into three sets, costo- central, costo-transverse, and costo-sternal. I he costo-central articulation unites the head of the rib, in most instances, with the bodies of two vertebra by two distinct synovial joints, supported by ligaments as follows. The anterior costo-central or stellate ligament consists of fibres which radiate from the head of the rib to the body of its proper vertebra, to the intervertebral disc, and to the body of the vertebra above. Short fibres surround the remaining portion of the articulation and complete a capsule to the joint. The interarticnlar ligament is a thin and short band of fibres, which passes transversely from the ridge separating the two articular surfaces on the head of the rib to the intervertebral substance, and divides the articulation into two parts, each lined by a separate synovial membrane. The ligament does not exist in the articulations of the first, eleventh, or twelfth ribs, as these ribs are each attached to only one vertebral body by a single synovial joint. The costo-transverse articulation unites the tubercle and neck of the rib to the corresponding transverse process by a synovial joint Fig. 122. Fig. 122.—The 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, AND 9th DORSAL VERTEBRA!, WITH PARTS OF THE 6TH, 7th AND 8tH RIBS, FROM THE RIGHT SIDE AND FRONT. (A. T.) -J- Tlie 9th rib has been removed to show the articular surfaces of the ver- tebra; corresponding to it; 3 & 4, the heads of the 6th and 7th ribs, from which the stellate ligaments are seen spreading over the two adjacent verte- bral bodies and intervertebral substance; 5, the head of the 8th rib, from which the stellate ligament has been removed, so as to expose the upper and lower synovial cavities, and between them the interarticular ligament; 6, lower, and 6', upper facet of the costo-central articulation ; 7, posterior costo-trans- verse ligament; 7', the costo-transverse synovial cavity ; 7", the costo-transverse articular facet; 8, superior costo-trans- verse ligament; 9, superior articular process of the 5th vertebra ; 9', inferior of the 9th.14? Fig. 123.—Horizontal section on ligament ; 6, interosseous or middle ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIES. Fig. 123. and ligaments, and by a longer ligament to the transverse process of the vertebra above. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a distinct band extending outwards from the posterior part of the summit of the trans- verse process to the rough external part of the tubercle of the rib. The middle or interosseous costo-transverse ligament, consists of a series of short parallel fibres, which unite the neck of the rib to the anterior surface of the contiguous transverse process. These fibres are A DORSAL VERTEBRA, WITH THE ADJACENT PORTIONS OF TWO RIBS. (R. Quain.) f 1, the rib ; 2, transverse pro- cess ; 3, anterior costo-central liga- ment ; 5, posterior costo-transverse costo-transverse ligament. seen on removing by hori- zontal section a portion of the rib and transverse pro- cess, and forcibly drawing the one from the other. The superior costo-transverse ligament, anterior or long, consists of fasciculi of fibres, passing from the neck of the rib obliquely upwards and outwards to the lower margin of the transverse process next above it. Its internal margin is thickened and free ; externally it is continued into the posterior intercostal aponeurosis, which occupies the hinder portion of the intercostal space. This ligament does not exist in the articula- tion of the first rib. There are no synovial joints between the lowest two ribs and the transverse processes, and the posterior and middle costo-transverse liga- ments are represented by a single band. The costo-steknal articulations, situated between the anterior extremities of the cartilages of the sternal ribs and the corresponding fossae in the margins of the sternum, are, with the exception of the first, small synovial joints, surrounded by short capsules, which are most developed in front and behind, and thus form anterior and posterior liga- ments. The fibres of the anterior ligament radiate from the extremity of the cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, where they inter- lace with those of the opposite side, and are blended with the tendinous fibres of origin of the peetoralis major muscle ; the fibres of the posterior ligament are similarly disposed, but are not so thick or numerous. In the second articulation the synovial cavity is divided into two by a short inlerarticiilar ligament, passing horizontally between the end of the costal cartilage and the cartilaginous layer uniting the manubrium to the body of the sternum ; and similar divisions sometimes exist in the succeeding joints. The synovial cavity is frequently wanting in the articulations ■of the sixth and seventh cartilages. The cartilage of the first rib is almost always directly united to the sternum. A variable fasciculus of fibres connecting the cartilage of the seventh rib, and sometimes likewise that of the sixth, with the xiphoid cartilage, is called the < osto-xiphoid ligament. Connection of the cartilages one with another.—The inter-ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK AND HEAD. 148 chondral articulations are synovial joints, formed by the processes on the adjacent margins of some of the costal cartilages, viz., from the sixth (sometimes the fifth) to the ninth, surrounded by short capsules. The joints are strengthened anteriorly by oblique ligamentous fibres, derived from the anterior intercostal aponeuroses which occupy the fore parts of the intercostal spaces. Connection of the ribs with their cartilages.—The external extremities of the cartilages are fixed into the oval depressions on the ends of the ribs, and the union receives support from the periosteum. Ligaments of the sternum.—The manubrium and body of the sternum are connected by interposed cartilage in which a fissure is some- times formed, and by anterior and posterior ligamentous fibres, which have chiefly a longitudinal direction. A layer of cartilage also inter- venes between the body and ensiform process, so long as they are not united by bone. The whole sternum is much strengthened by thick periosteum, and by the radiating bands of the costo-sternal ligaments already mentioned. Fig. 124. Fig. 124.—Articulations of the STERNUM, CLAVICLE, AND RIBS, AS SEEN FROM BEFORE. (A. T., after Arnold.) y On the right side the anterior ligaments are shown; on the left side, the front parts of the clavicle, sternum and costal cartilages have been removed so as to display the articular cavities. 1 to 10, the anterior extremities of the ribs from the first to the tenth inclusive, on the right side ; 1' to 10', the costal cartilages of the left side from the first to the tenth ; at 1', the direct union of the first costal cartilage with the sternum is shown ; at the sternal ends of the cartilages marked 2' to 6', the small synovial cavities are opened ; between the costal cartilages on the right side the anterior intercostal aponeuroses are shown stretching over the intercostal spaces ; and on the left side, by a section, small synovial cavities are shown between the adjacent edges of the costal cartilages from the 5th to the 9th ; on the front of the right half of the sternum the radi- ating anterior costo-sternal liga- ments are shown ; 11, the ensiform process ; 12, 12', the interclavicular ligament ; aud below 12, the an- terior sterno-clavicular ligament ; below 12', the stemo-clavicular ar- ticulation is opened, showing the interarticular fibro-cartilage and double synovial cavity ; 13, the costo-clavieular or rhomboid ligament. Movements of the Ribs.—The heads of the ribs are so tightly bound down to the vertebrae by the interarticular and stellate ligaments that the movements must take place round a centre situated in the costo-central articulation. The ribs generally are capable of a certain amount of elevation and depression, moving149 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Fig. 125. A PORTION OP THE SKULL Fig. 125. upon an axis directed transversely through the costo-central articulations, and of rotation upwards and downwards about an axis passing between their costal and sternal ends, constituting what may be distinguished as the eversion and inversion of the ribs. The movement of the tubercles of the ribs upon the transverse processes is of a gliding nature, and as the planes of the costo-transverse articulations of the lower ribs are directed obliquely, these ribs move backwards as well as up- wards in inspiration, and downwards and forwards in expiration. The backward and forward movement is much freer in the case of the last two ribs owing to the absence of the costo-transverse articulation, while the up and down move- ment is more limited. The first rib can be elevated to a considerable extent, but only very slightly everted, in consequence of the shortness of its cartilage, and the absence of a synovial articulation at the junction with the sternum. When the vertebral column is bent forwards, the ribs are depressed ; and when the column is rotated, the ribs of that side towards which the upper part of the trunk is turned are raised, and those of the other side correspondingly depressed. The combined movements of the thoracic walls in respiration will be described with the actions of the intercostal muscles. It is sufficient at present to state that the elevation and eversion of the ribs are the main causes of the antero-posterior and transverse enlargement of the chest in inspiration. TEMPORO-MAXILLAKY ARTICULATION. The lower jaw articulates by its condyle on each side with the smooth surface of the temporal bone, extending over the part of the glenoid WITH THE LOWER JAW AND HYOID BONE, SEEN PROM THE OUTER SIDE. (A. T., after Arnold.) ^ 1, external lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation ; 2, a part of the capsule of the joint; 3, styloid process; 4, stylo-maxillary ligament ; 5, stylo-hyoid ligament ; 6, lesser cornu of the hyoid bone with some short ligamentous fibres attach- ing it to, 7, the body, and 8, the great cornu. fossa in front of the Glaserian fissure and the articular emi- nence formed by the anterior root of the zygoma. The joint is divided by an interarticular fibro-cartilage into an upper and a lower synovial cavity. The external lateral ligament is a short fasciculus of fibres, attached above to the lower border and the tubercle of the zygoma; and below to the external surface and posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw, its fibres being directed downwards and backwards. Scattered ligamentous fibres cover the synovial membrane in fi-ont, on the inside, and behind, forming a thin and loose capsule round the joint. The internal lateral ligament is a flat, thin band, placed at some distance from the joint. It extends from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone downwards and a little forwards, to be attached to the inner border of the inferior dental foramen. Between it and the lower jaw are [ 1 iced the external pterygoid muscle, the internal maxillary vessels, the auriculo-temporal and the inferior dental nerves. It has150 ARTICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. no immediate connection with the joint, and by some anatomists is not recognised as a ligament. The iiiterartieular fibro-cartilage is a thin plate placed between the articular surfaces of the bones. It is of an oval form, broadest Fig. 126. Fig. 126.—A portion op the skull and LOWER JAW WITH HALF THU HYOID BONE, SEEN FROM THE INSIDE. (A.T.) £ The numbers are the same as in Fig. 125 ; 3, styloid process, detached from the skull ; 7, posterior surface of the right half of the body of the hyoid bone ; 9, internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary joint; 10, inferior dental foramen. transversely, thickest posteriorly, and thinnest at its centre, where it is sometimes perforated. The in- ferior surface, which is in contact with the condyle, is concave ; the superior is concavo-convex from be- fore backwards, conforming with the articular surface of the temporal bone. Its circumference is attached closely to the capsule, and anteriorly a part of the external pterygoid muscle is inserted into it. Synovial Membranes.—The synovial membrane which lies between the interarticular fibro-cartilage and the glenoid cavity is larger and looser than that which is interposed between the fibro-cartilage and the Fig. 127. Fig. 127.—Sagittal section of THE TEMPORO-MAXILLARY AR- TICULATION OF THE RIGHT SIDE. (A. T.) 1, is placed close to the arti- cular eminence, and points to the superior synovial cavity of the joint; 2, is jilaced close to the articular surface of the con- dyle of the lower jaw, and points to the inferior synovial cavity of the joint; x , is placed on the thicker posterior portion of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage. condyle of the jaw. When the fibro-cartilage is per- forated, the upper and lower synovial cavities ne- cessarily communicate with each other. The stylo-maxillary ligament is the name given to a strong thickened band of fibres connected with the cervical fascia extending from the styloid process to the posterior border of the ramus of the jaw, where it is inserted between the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. It separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. It may be proper also to mention here the stylo-hyoid ligament, aARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIME. 151 thin fibrous cord, which passes from the point of the styloid process to the lesser cornu of the hyoid bone, and suspends that bone from the styloid process. A considerable portion of the stylo-hyoid ligament is sometimes converted into bone in the human subject, and in many animals it is naturally osseous, constituting the e2rihyal bone. Movements.—The jaw is capable of movements of elevation and depression, and of protrusion and retraction ; but it is to be observed that when the jaw is depressed, as in opening the mouth, the condyle advances from the glenoid cavity so as to be placed on the articular eminence in front of it. The movements which take place in the superior and inferior compartments of the joint are of different kinds. In the upper the fibro-cartilage glides forwards and backwards on the temporal bone ; in the lower compartment the condyle rotates on a trans- verse axis against the fibro-cartilage. In opening the mouth the two movements are combined : the jaw and fibro-cartilage together move forwards and rest on the convex root of the zygoma, while at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cartilage. When the lower incisors are protruded beyond those of the upper jaw, the movement is confined chiefly to the upper articulation ; and when the same movement is alternately performed in the joints of opposite sides a hori- zontal oblique or grinding motion is produced. The fibres of the external lateral ligament remain tight hi opening the mouth, owing to the descent of the condyle when it passes forwards on to the articular eminence. AETICULATIONTS OF THE UPPEB, LIMB. THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR, ARCH. The supporting arch of the upper limb has only one point of attach- ment to the skeleton of the trunk, namely, at the sterno-clavicular arti- culation ; the scapula being connected with the trunk only by muscles. The clavicle articulates at its inner end with the first bone of the sternum, and is connected by ligaments to its fellow of the opposite side and to the first rib. At its outer end it is united to the scapula. Sterno-C lavic ular Articulation.—The articular surface of the inner end of the clavicle is considerably larger than the opposing surface of the sternum. Between the two bones an interarticular fibro-cartilage is interposed. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament, broad and consisting of parallel fibres, passes from the front of the inner extremity of the clavicle, downwards and inwards, to the anterior surface of the manubrium. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, on the posterior aspect of the joint, is of similar conformation to the anterior ligament, but is not so strongly marked. The interclavicular ligament is a dense fasciculus of fibres passing between the sternal ends of the clavicles. It dips downwards in the middle, where it is attached to the interclavicular notch of the sternum. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, nearly circular in form, and thicker above and at its margins than at the centre, is interposed between the articular surfaces of the two bones. Superiorly it is attached to the upper part of the inner extremity of the clavicle, and interiorly to the cartilage of the first rib. In the latter situation it is thin and prolonged outwards, beneath the lower border of the clavicle. Synovial cavities.—In this articulation, as in that of the lower jaw, there are two synovial cavities, one on each side of the inter- articular fibro-cartilage.ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 12S. 152 Fig. 128.—View from before of the articulations of the shoulder bones. (A. T.) i 1, acromio-clavicular articulation; 2, conoid, and 3, trapezoid part of the coraco- clavicular ligament; 4, near the suprascapular- ligament; 5, on the coracoid process, points to the coraco-acromial ligament; 6, capsular ligament of the shoulder joint; 7, coraco-humeral ligament; above 6, an aperture in the capsular ligament through which the synovial membrane is prolonged under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle ; 8, tendon of the gknoid head of the biceps muscle ; 9, right half of the interclavicular liga- ment ; 10, in'erarticular libro-cartilage of the sterno-clavicular articulation; 11, costo- clavicular ligament ; 12 and 13, cartilage and small part of the second and third ribs attached by their anterior costo-stemal ligaments. supported above by a thick and broad superior ligament, and below by an inferior ligament, which is very thin. A small inter articular fibro-cartilage is sometimes present. It is wedge-shaped, attached by its base to the superior ligament, and projects only a short distance between the arti- cular surfaces. In rare cases it effects a complete division of the joint. The coracc-clavicular ligament, which connects the clavicle with the coracoid process of the scapula, is divisible into two parts. The conoid ligament, which is the posterior or internal fasciculus, broad above, narrow below, is attached interiorly to the inner part of the root of the The costoclavicular or rhomboid ligament may be regarded as an accessory ligament of the sterno-clavicular articulation. It is attached interiorly to the cartilage of the first rib near its sternal end, and passes obliquely upwards, backwards and outwards, to be fixed to a rough impression on the under surface of the clavicle near the sternal end. Scapulo-Clavicular Articulations.—At its outer end the clavicle is connected to the acromion and coracoid processes of the scapula. The acromio-clavicular articulation is a synovial joint uniting the outer extremity of the clavicle with the inner edge of the acromion. It is153 THE SHOULDER-JOINT. coracoid process, and superiorly to the conoid tubercle of the clavicle : its fibres are directed backwards and upwards. The trapezoid ligament, the anterior or external fasciculus, slopes upwards, backwards, and out- wards from the upper surface of the coracoid process to the trapezoid line, on which it is inserted into the oiavicle. In the angle between the conoid and trapezoid ligaments there is frequently a synovial bursa. Movements.—The clavicle is firmly bound down at its inner end in the sterno- clavicular articulation, and upon this as a centre it can be moved upwards and downwards, forwards and backwards, or in any intermediate direction, necessarily carrying the scapula with it, which glides in a corresponding direction over the thoracic wall. The scapula farther undergoes a movement of rotation, by which the acromion is raised and the glenoid cavity directed upwards when the arm is elevated, and the reverse when the arm is depressed. The movements of the bones are limited, not so much by the forms of the articular surfaces, as by the costo-clavicular and coraco-clavicular ligaments, and the position of the thoracic wall. When the clavicle is forcibly depressed, as in lifting a heavy weight, it presses upon the first rib, its sternal end rises, and the interarticular fibro-cartilage and interclavicular ligament are put upon the stretch. The acromio-clavicular joint is loose and allows of considerable play, by which the angle between the spine of the scapula and the clavicle is altered as the shoulder is moved ; and the scapula is supported on the clavicle principally by the strong coraco-clavicular ligament. Ligaments of the Scapula.—There are two ligaments which stretch from one part of the scapula to another. 1. The coracoid or supra- scapular ligament is a thin, flat band of fibres, attached by its extre- mities to the opposite margins of the notch at the root of the cora- coid process, which it thus converts into a foramen for the transmission of the suprascapular nerve, the corresponding artery most commonly passing above it. This ligament is frequently converted into bone. 2. The coraco-acromial ligament, broad, firm, and triangular, is attached by its broader extremity to the outer edge of the coracoid process, and by the narrower to the tip of the acromion. Its inferior surface looks downwards upon the shoulder-joint, the superior is covered by the del- toid muscle. It completes the arch formed by the coracoid and acromion processes, and gives protection to the shoulder-joint. THE SHOULDER-JOINT. In this articulation the large and hemispherical head of the humerus is opposed to the much smaller surface of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The bones are retained in position, not by the direct tension of ligaments, which would restrict too much the movements of the joint, but by surrounding muscles and atmospheric pressure. The capsular ligament is attached to the scapula round the margin of the glenoid cavity, and to the humerus at the place where the neck springs from the tuberosities and shaft. It extends farthest down the humerus on the internal or inferior aspect, and is strongest on the superior aspect. It is so lax that the humerus separates from the glenoid cavity as soon as its muscular connections are detached. Superiorly and posteriorly the capsule is strengthened by the tendons of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor muscles, which are in- timately connected with it as they pass over it to reach the great tube- rosity of the humerus. Anteriorly the tendon of the subscapularis muscle comes into direct contact with, the synovial membrane, which is pro-154 ARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. longed upon it through an oval opening in the capsule. The insertion of the capsule is likewise interrupted opposite the bicipital groove, to give passage to the long tendon of the biceps muscle. Fig. 123. Fig. 129.—View op the glenoid cavity and liga- ments BETWEEN THE SCAPULA AND CLAVICLE OP THE RIGHT SIDE. 3 1, glenoid fossa, its cartilaginous surface ; 2, glenoid ligament; 3, tendon of the biceps muscle seen in con- nection with the upper part of the glenoid ligament 4, upper surface of the coracoid process ; 5 and G, on the adjacent part of the clavicle ; 4 to 5, the conoid, 4 to G, the trapezoid portion of the coraco-clavicular ligament; 7, apex of the acromion process ; 4 to 7, coraco-acromial ligament; 8, aeromio-clavicular articu- lation, which is open anteriorly, showing a wedge- shaped interarticular fibro-cartilage attached above to the superior acromio-clavicular ligament; x, tl*o inferior acromio-clavicular ligament. The coraco-liumeral, or accessory ligament, is a strong wide band extending obliquely over the upper part of the articulation ; it springs from the root and outer border of the coracoid process, and thence passes to the neck of the humerus above the great tuberosity, intimately Fig. 130. Fig. 130.—A, Section through the shoulder-joint, tendon of the biceps and BICIPITAL GROOVE, SHOWING SOMEWHAT DIAGRAMMATIC ALLY THE SYNOVIAL CAVITY OF THE JOINT, &C. (A.T.) g B, Outline of the same, to snow the reflection of the synovial membrane OVER THE TENDON. 1. outer part of the clavicle; 2, the acromial end ; 3, cavity of the shoulder-joint close to the upper part of the head of the scapula, where there are seen the section of the carti- lages on the head of the humerus and in the glenoid cavity, the glenoid ligament and the origin of the tendon of the biceps muscle ; 4, glenoid’ ligament in the lower part of the cavity ; 5, upper part of the capsular ligament and synovial membrane ; 6, tendon of the biceps as it passes out of the joint into the bicipital groove ; ti', 6', tubular prolongation of the synovial membrane round the tendon ; 7, reflection of the synovial membrane on the humerus within the lower part of the capsular ligament. connected with the capsule. A few anterior fibres of the ligament project into the joint, and are inserted into the inner margin of the upper end of the bicipital groove ; these have been called the gleno- humeral ligament, and are supposed to correspond to the interarticular ligament of the hip-joint.RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. lou The glenoid ligament is a fibrous band, about two lines thick, which iis fixed to the edge of the glenoid fossa, and thus deepens the cavity. The upper part of it is connected with the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle, which is also attached at the upper end of the glenoid fossa, within the capsule of the joint. The synovial membrane is reflected uninterruptedly from the margin of the glenoid cavity on the inner surface of the fibrous capsule to the humerus, but its form is complicated by its relation to the tendons of the biceps and subscapularis muscles. The long tendon of the biceps muscle, traversing the joint in its course from the upper border of the glenoid cavity to the bicipital groove, is enclosed in a tubular sheath, formed by a process of the synovial membrane, which is continued down upon it beyond the fibrous capsule into the bicipital groove, and is thence reflected upwards lining the groove, to become continuous with the synovial membrane of the capsule in such a manner as to preserve the integrity of the membrane. The bursal prolongation of the synovial membrane under the tendon of the subscapularis muscle is of variable extent, sometimes scarcely existing, sometimes forming a considerable pouch on the venter of the scapula. Subacromial Bursa.—Superficial to the muscles covering the top of the joint is a considerable bursa, by means of which the contiguous surfaces of the acromion process, of the coraco-acromial ligament and of the deltoid muscle, are lubricated, so as to facilitate the movements of the subjacent head of the humerus. Movements.—The shoulder-joint, being a ball and socket joint, allows of angular movement in all its varieties, as well as of rotation. In flexion the arm is earned forwards and somewhat inwards, in extension backwards and somewhat outwards; in abduction and adduction the humerus moves in directions more or less at right angles to the foregoing. The movements of extension and adduction are very limited, being restrained by the coraco-humeral ligament. Flexion and. abduction are the movements by which the humerus is raised, and are admitted to the extent of 90°, but are then checked by the upper end of the bone meeting the coraco-acromial ligament, and farther elevation of the arm is effected by the rotation of the scapula before described. In rotation the humerus revolves about its long axis; the whole range of the movement is about a quarter of a circle. The arch formed by the acromion, the coracoid process, and the coraco- acromial ligament, lined by the subacromial bursa, forms a sort of secondary socket in which the extremity of the humerus, covered by the tendons inserted into the great tuberosity, revolves, and against which it is pressed when the weight of the body is made to rest upon the arms. ARTICULATIONS OF THE BONES OF THE FOREARM. The bones of the forearm are united by a superior and an inferior articulation and an interosseous membrane. In the SUPERIOR RADIO-ULNAR articulation the head of the radius is received into the small sigmoid cavity of the ulna and is held in position by the annular or orbicular ligament. This ligament is a strong band of fibres attached to the ulna in front and behind, at the extremities of the small sigmoid cavity, and forming about four-fifths of a ring which encircles the head of the radius and binds it firmly in its situation. The external lateral ligament of the elbow is inserted into its outer surface ; its deep surface is smooth, and is lined by the synovial membrane of the elbow-joint. The inferior radio-ulnar articulation.—The connection betweenARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 156 the sigmoid cavity of the radius and the lower end of the ulna is effected by means of a fibro-cartilage, a synovial membrane, and some scattered ligamentous fibres in front and behind. The triangular fibro-carti- lage is a thick plate attached by its base to the border separating the Fig. 131. Fig. 131.—The upper part op the ulna, with the ORBICULAR LIGAMENT (R. Quain). § 1, upper division of the sigmoid surface on tlie olecranon ; 2, extremity of the coronoid process ; 5, orbicular ligament. carpal from the ulnar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its apex to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna, and to the side of that process. Its upper surface looks towards the ulna, its lower towards the semilunar bone, and it separates the inferior radio-ulnar articulation from the wrist-joint. The synovial membrane, sometimes called from its looseness membrana sac- cformis, extends upwards between the radius and ulna, and horizontally inwards between the ulna and triangular fibro-cartilage. When the fibro- cartilage is perforated, as is frequently the case, this synovial cavity communicates with that of the wrist-joint. The interosseous membrane or ligament of the forearm is a thin, flat, fibrous membrane, the direction of whose fibres is for the most part obliquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous border of the radius to that of the ulna. Its superior border is placed about an inch below the tubercle of the radius, leaving an open space above (hiatus interosseus) through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. This space is bounded above by the oblique or round ligament, a thin. Fig. 132. Fig. 132.—The lower parts op the radius and ULNA, WITH THE TRIANGULAR PIBRO-CARTILAGE CON- NECTING them (R. Quain). § 1, ulna; 2, its styloid process; 3, radius; 4, arti- cular surface for the scaphoid bone ; 5, that for the semilunar bone ; 6, lower surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage ; * *, a piece of whalebone passed be- tween the fibro-cartilage and the ulna. narrow fasciculus of fibres extending obliquely .2 downwards and outwards from the coronoid process, to be attached to the radius below the tubercle. Other small bundles of fibres, having the same direction as the oblique ligament, are often to be found at intervals, decussating with the fibres of the interosseous ligament on its posterior surface. Movement of the Radius on the Ulna.—The disposition of the annular ligament allows the head of the radius to rotate freely within it, while the lower end of the radius, bound by the triangular fibro-cartilage to the styloid process of the ulna, has a movement of circumduction round that point, by which the hand is brought into the prone or the supine position. Thus in pronation and supina- tion the radius describes a part of a cone, the axis of which extends from the centre of the head of the radius to the styloid process of the ulna.THE ELBOW-JOINT. 137 THE ELBOW-JOINT. The lower extremity of the humerus is in contact with the ulna and radius at the elbow, and forms with them a hinge-joint. The great sigmoid cavity of the ulna articulates with the trochlea of the humerus, so as to admit of flexion and extension only; while the cup-shaped depression on the head of the radius is fitted to turn freely on the rounded capitellum. These bones are united principally by strong lateral ligaments. The internal lateral ligament, triangular in shape, consists of anterior and posterior thickened bands, and an intermediate thinner part. Fig. 133.—Ligaments of tiie elbow-joint. (A. T.) J A, from the outer side and behind ; B, from the front ; C, from the inner side and behind. 1, internal lateral ligament ; 2, external lateral ; 3, the middle strongest part of the anterior ligament; 4, orbicular ligament; 5, posterior ligament, represented as wrinkled from relaxation in extension. In these figures the oblique ligament and upper part of the interosseous membrane are also represented below the elbow-joint. The anterior band springs from the lower and fore part of the internal condyle of the humerus, and is inserted into the coronoid process, along the inner margin of the sigmoid cavity. The posterior part, broader and stronger, passes from theunder and back part of the condyle to the inner border of the olecranon ; and the intermediate fibres are connected with a small transverse band, which passes over the notch between the olecranon and the coronoid process. The external lateral ligament, intimately connected with the tendinous attachment of the extensor muscles, is shorter and narrower than the internal. It is attached superiorly to a depression below the external condyle of the humerus, and inferiorly becomes blended with theARTICULATIONS OF THE LITER LIMB. 158 annular ligament of the radius, some of its hinder fibres being prolonged to the ulna. The anterior ligament consists of a thin sheet of fibres, strongest Fig. 134. Fig. 134.—Sagittal section op the elbow-joint through THE OP.EAT SIGMOID CAVITY OP THE ULNA AND THE TROCH- LEAR SURFACE OF TIIE HUMERUS. (A. T.) I 1, cut surface of the humerus ; 2, that of the ulna ; 3, pos- terior part, and 4, anterior part of the synovial cavity of the joint; 5, orbicular ligament ; 6, tendon of the biceps muscle ; 7, is at the lower end of the oblique ligament. in its middle part, extending downwards from above the coronoid fossa of the humerus to the coronoid process of the ulna and the orbicular ligament. The posterior ligament is comparatively thin and weak, and consists of loose and irregular fibres passing transversely across the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and from the sides of that fossa to the olecranon process, thus completing the capsule of the joint behind. The synovial membrane extends upwards on the humerus so far as to line the fossae for the coronoid and olecranon processes, and is loose and vascular in the latter positions. It is also prolonged round the neck of the radius, and lines the annular ligament. Movements.—Flexion and extension are the only movements which take place between the humerus and ulna; and in the perfect limb these are arrested, liexion by the meeting' of the soft parts of the arm and forearm, extension by the tightening of the ligaments and muscles on the front of the joint, before the coronoid and olecranon processes meet the bottom of their respective fossae on the humerus. The path of motion is in a nearly vertical plane, with a direction slightly outwards in extension. The inner lip of the trochlea being prominent below, forms an expansion which corresponds to an inward projection of the coronoid part of the ulnar surface; while the outer lip of the trochlea, being enlarged at the upper and back part, forms a surface which is only in use in complete extension, and which then corresponds to a surface on the outer aspect of the olecranon, which comes into contact with no other part of the humerus. In flexion and extension the radius moves by its cup-shaped head upon the capitellum, and on the groove between that process and the trochlea by a ridge internal to the cup. It is most completely in contact with the humerus in the position of semi-flexion and semi-pronation. THE WRIST-JOINT AND ARTICULATIONS OP THE HAND. The radio-carpal articulation, or wrist-joint, is formed between the radius and triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semi- lunar and pyramidal bones below. The superior surface is concave both transversely and from before backwards ; the inferior surface is correspondingly convex, and is prolonged farther down upon the carpal bones behind than in front. The articular surface of the radius is subdivided into two parts by a linear elevation ; an outer, triangular, for the scaphoid, and an inner, quadrilateral, which together with the triangular fibro-cartilage, corresponds to the semilunar bone. The small articular surface of the pyramidal is in most cases in contact with the fibro-cartilage only when the band is adducted.THE WKI5T-JQINT AND HAND. 169 The internal lateral ligament is a rounded cord passing directly downwards from the styloid process of the ulna, to the pyramidal bone, and by its anterior fibres to the pisiform bone. The external lateral ligament extends from the styloid process of the radius to a depression on the scaphoid bone between the radial articular surface and the tubercle. Fig. 135. A B Fig. 135, A Dorsal view op the ligaments op the wrist-joint, and op the carpal and carpo-metacarpal articdlations. (A. T., after Arnold.) ~ 1, lower part of the ulna ; 2, external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint; 3, internal ; near it descending obliquely to 6, from the radius, the dorsal radio-carpal ligament 4 to 5, dorsal ligaments of the first row ; 4, is on the scaphoid ; 5, on the semilunar bone ; 6, pyramidal bone, with the attachment of the dorsal radio-carpal ligament; 7, trapezium ; 8, trapezoid ; 9, os magnum ; 10, unciform ; 11 to 15, metacarpal bones ; 7 to 8, 8 to 9, and 9 to 10, dorsal ligaments of the second row of carpal bones; 4 to 8, 4 to 9, 5 to 9, and others, dorsal ligaments between the first and second row; 8 to 12, 9 to 13, and others, dorsal ligaments from the second row to the metacaipal bones ; be- tween the metacarpal bones, from 11 to 15, the dorsal intermetacarpal ligaments. Fig. 135, B.—Palmar view of the ligaments op tiie wrist-joint, and of the carpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations. (A. T.) 1 The anterior radio-carpal ligament has been removed : 1, anterior ligament of the lower radio-ulnar articulation ; 2, external, and 3, internal lateral ligament of the wrist-joint; 4, scaphoid hone ; 5, semilunar; 6, pyramidal; 7, pisiform, with the tendon of flexor carpi ulnaris attached ; 4 to 5, and 5 to 6, palmar ligaments of the first row ; 8, external lateral ligament between the first and second row of carpal bones; 9, trapezium (the trapezoid is not numbered) ; 10, os magnum ; 11, hooked process of the unciform bone ; 9 to 10, 10 to 11, and others, palmar ligaments of the second row ; 4 to 10, and 6 to 10, some of the palmar ligaments uniting the two rows, converging on the os magnum ; 7 to 11, ligament from the pisiform bone to the unciform process ; 7 to 16, ligament from the pisiform to the fifth metacarpal bone ; 12, external ligament of the first caipo- metacarpal articulation ; 13, 14, 15, 16, the proximal ends of the second to the fifth metacarpal bones, on which the palmar transverse, and on three of them, a set of piso- metaearpal ligaments are shown. The anterior ligament, broad and membranous, consists partly of fibres which have a nearly transverse direction, partly of others which diverge as they descend from the anterior border of the radius to the scaphoid, semilunar, and pyramidal bones ; some of them are continuedARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. ICO to the os magnum. On the inner side a strong bundle springs from the root of the styloid process of the ulna and passes to the pyramidal and semilunar bones. The posterior ligament extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the extremity of the radius to the posterior surface of the first row of the carpal bones, especially the pyramidal bone ; its fibres are pro- longed some distance on the surface of the carpal bones. The synovial membrane is simple and lines the ligaments between the articular surfaces. The Carpal Articulations.—The bones of the carpus, the pisiform excepted, are so arranged in two rows, that while only slight movement can take place between the members of each row, a considerable amount of movement is possible between the two rows. The surface presented by the first row to the second is concave both transversely and from before backwards in the greater part of its extent, but at its outer side it is formed by the convex part of the scaphoid bone. The opposing surface of the second row is concavo-convex from without inwards, the concavity being formed by the trapezium and trapezoid, the convexity by the os magnum and unciform bone. The two rows of carpal bones are united by dorsal, palmar, and lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are placed one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border of the carpus ; the former connects the scaphoid bone with the trapezium, the latter the pyramidal with the unciform. The dorsal ligaments consist of fibres passing in various directions ; the palmar ligaments are chiefly composed of fibres converg- ing towards the os magnum. The bones of tlie first row, the pisiform bone excepted, are united by interosseous and by dorsal and palmar ligaments. The interosseous ligaments, placed on the sides of the semilunar bone on a level with its superior surface, connect it with the scaphoid and pyramidal bones, thus completing the inferior wall of the radio-carpal joint. The dorsal and 'palmar ligaments extend transversely on the dorsal and palmar surfaces from the scaphoid bone to the semilunar, and from the semilunar to the pyramidal. The bones of the second row are connected by similar means. The dorsal and palmar ligaments pass transversely between the contiguous bones. The interosseous ligaments are generally three (but sometimes only two) in number, a strong ligament being placed between the os magnum and unciform bones, another between the trapezoid and trape- zium, and a slender ligament between the os magnum and trapezoid. A small interosseous ligament is also found sometimes between the os magnum and the scaphoid. (Fig. 136.) The synovial cavity of the carpal articulations is extensive and complicated. Passing between the two rows of carpal bones, it sends upwards two processes between the three bones of the first row, and downwards three between the four bones of the second row. It is far- ther continued below into the inner four carpo-metacarpal and three intcrmetacarpal articulations. In some rare cases there is continuity with the synovial cavity of the wrist-joint, by deficiency of one of the interosseous ligaments between the upper carpal bones. The pisiform bone is articulated by a thin fibrous capsule and synovial membrane with the pyramidal bone. Inferiorly it is united by two strong ligaments with the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones, andbetween 10 and 11, and between 11 and 12; x , Fig. 136. 161 (A. T.) i ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. is sometimes also connected with other metacarpal bones ; superiorly it receives the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle. The synovial Fig. 136.—Frontal section of the inferior RADIO-UI.NAR, RADIO-CARPAL, INTERCARPAL, AND CARPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. 1, points to the triangular fibro-cartilage below the ulna ; 2, placed on the ulna, points to the cavity of the sacciform synovial membrane ; 3, external lateral, and 4, internal lateral ligament, and between them the synovial cavity of the wrist; 5, scaphoid bone ; 6, semilunar ; 7, pyra- midal ; 8, 8, upper portion, and 8', 8', lower portion of the general synovial cavity of the intercarpal and carpo-metacarpal articulations ; between 5 and 6, and 6 and 7, the interosseous ligaments are seen separating the carpal articular cavity from the wrist-joint; between the four carpal bones of the lower row, and between the magnum and scaphoid, the interosseous liga- ments are also shown ; the upper division of the synovial cavity communicates with the lower marks one of the three interosseous metacarpal ligaments ; 9', separate synovial cavity of the first carpo-metacarpal articulation; 13, first, and 14, fifth metacarpal bone. Note. —It is to he observed that in this figure, and in others of a like kind which represent the joint-cavities, the white or black lines indicating the synovial membranes are, for the sake of clearness, generally represented as passing over the surfaces of the articular cartilages, although this is not the case in nature. These lines therefore must he held to represent merely the whole continuity of the articular or, as they are often called, the synovial surfaces. cavity is usually distinct, but sometimes communicates with that of the radio-carpal articulation. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist is a strong and thick band, which extends from the prominences made by the trapezium and scaphoid bone on the radial side of the carpus, directly across to the pisiform bone and unciform process, and converts the transverse arch of the carpus into a ring through which the flexor tendons of the digits pass into the hand. The posterior annular ligament, placed at the back of the wrist, is only a thickened part of the aponeurosis of the forearm. It extends from the lower part of the radius, at its outer border, to the inner part of the pyramidal and pisiform bones and serves to bind down the extensor tendons. CARPO-METACARPAL AND INTERMETACARPAL ARTICULATIONS. The four inner metacarpal bones are bound together at their distal extremities by fibres passing between the palmar ligaments of the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulations, and constituting the transverse metacarpal ligament. At their proximal extremities they are united to one another and to the carpal bones in articulations, the common synovial lining of which is derived from that of the intercarpal joint. In these articulations the four metacarpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, and three palmar, and by strong interosseous ligaments. The second, third and VOL I. MARTICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 162 fourth metacarpal bones are united to the carpus by dorsal ligaments, of which each bone receives two, viz., the second from the trapezium and trapezoid, the third from the trapezoid and os magnum, and the fourth Fig. 137. Fig. 137.—General view of the articulations OF THE WRIST AND HAND FROM BEFORE. I, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, and from that point across the lower end of the radius, the palmar radio-carpal ligaments; 3, sca- phoid bone ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium ; 6, unci- form ; 7, os magnum, with most of the deeper ligaments uniting these bones ; I, first metacarpo- phalangeal articulation with its external lateral ligament; II to V, transverse metacarpal ligament: in the several interplialangeal articulations of the fingers the lateral ligaments are shown; in the thumb the external only is visible. from the os magnum and unciform, and by palmar ligaments, one to each bone, but which are not so well defined and less constant. The fifth metacarpal bone is united to the unciform bone by a thin capsule which surrounds the articulation except on the outer side. There is like- wise an interosseous band in one part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation, con- necting the lower and contiguous angles of the os magnum and unciform to the adjacent angle of the third metacarpal bone. This ligament sometimes separates the cavity between the unciform and two inner metacarpal bones from the rest of the joint. The first metacarpal bone is articulated with the trapezium by a capsular investment, which is thickened behind and on the outer side, and is lined by a distinct synovial membrane. ISETACAEPO-PHALANGEAL AND INTERPHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. The rounded head of each metacarpal bone is received into the slight hollow in the base of the first phalanx, and the bones are maintained in position by two lateral ligaments and an anterior ligament. The lateral ligaments are strong bands springing from the tubercle and depression on each side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and passing downwards and forwards to the contiguous margin of the phalanx. The anterior fibres are directed almost horizontally forwards and join the palmar ligament of the articulation. The anterior or palmar ligament, or rather fibrous plate, occupies the interval between the lateral ligaments on the palmar aspect of each joint ; it is a thick and dense fibrous structure, which is firmly united to the phalanx but loosely adherent to the metacarpal bone. It is continuous at each side with the lateral ligament, so that the three form one undivided structure which covers the joint, except on the dorsal aspect. Its palmar surface is grooved for the flexor tendon, the sheath of which is connected to it at each side ; the other surface, looking to5 and 6, interphalangeal cavities ; 4', 5', and 6', the palmar ARTICULATIONS OF THE HAND. Fig. 138. Fig. 138.—Sacittal section through the lower tart op AND PHALANGES OP THE MIDDLE FINGER, TO SHOW THE SHAPE 163 the interior of the joint, is lined by synovial membrane, and supports the head of the metacarpal bone. In the joint of the thumb there are two sesamoid bones, one situated at each side, which are connected with its ligaments. THE RADIUS, SEMILUNAR BONE, OS MAGNUM, METACARPAL BONE OP THE ARTICULAR SURFACES AND THE STNOVIAL CAVITIES BETWEEN THESE SEVERAL BONES. (A. T.) | 1, synovial cavity of the wrist-joint ; 2, intercarpal cavity ; 3, carpo-metacarpal cavity ; 4, metacarpo-phalangeal cavity; fibrous plates which are attached to the bases of the several phalanges ; 7, indicates the place of the tendons of the long flexor muscles ; 8, section of the anterior annular ligament; 9, and 10, transverse retinacula, or vaginal ligaments of the flexor tendons on the first and second phalanges. A synovial membrane is present in each joint, and invests the surface of the ligaments which •connect the bones. The interphalangeal articulations differ from the foregoing only m the shape of the articular surfaces {see p. 118). Movements of the Wrist and Fingers.—The move- ments taking place at the wrist have their seat partly in the radio-carpal, partly in the intercarpal articulation. Flexion is the freest movement, hut a considerable degree of over-extension is also permitted. The hand can also he moved laterally, and to a greater extent inwards (adduction or ulnar flexion) than outwards (abduction or radial flexion). The kind of movement which is allowed between the several ■carpal and metacaipal bones is best illustrated by placing the hand in such a position that the weight of the body is rested upon the open palm. The metacarpal range, which naturally is concave towards the palm, is flattened ; and the interosseous and palmar metacarpal ligaments are thus tightened, while a slight separation of the opposed surfaces of the bones takes place; so also the palmar carpo-metacarpal ligaments are tightened, and both palmar and interosseous ligaments of the second range of carpal hones. The convex part of the os magnum and unciform bone, fitted in these circumstances into the concavity of the first range, is a little wider than the part usually in contact with it; and thus, while the bones of the first range are separated from the palmar side, those ■of the second range are pressed still more apart from the distal aspect. The whole arrangement secures elasticity. The fourth and especially the fifth meta- carpal bones are not so tightly bound to the carpus as the second and third, and can therefore be moved to some extent forwards (opposition), thus making the hand narrower and deepening the hollow of the palm : these hones move in this way very distinctly in shutting the hand, so that the, back is then rendered more convex, and the tips of the fingers are brought more closely together. At the interphalangeal articulations the only movements allowed are flexion and extension, while over-extension is prevented by the ligamentous structures in front of the joints. At the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the fingers abduction and adduction are allowed, chiefly in the extended position. In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium all kinds of angular movement are allowed, but owing to the shape of the articular surfaces the movement of flexion is accompanied by a certain amount of rotation of the metacarpal bone on its long axis, by which the thumb is turned towards the m 2ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE PELVIS. 164 lingers, thus giving rise to the so-called opposition. The metacarpo-plialangeal articulation of the thumb allows of only a limited amount of flexion and ex tension. ARTICXJLATIOISrS OF THE PELVIS. Articulation of the Pelvis with the last Lumbar Vertebra. —The fifth lumbar is united to the first sacral vertebra by anterior and posterior ligaments of the bodies, capsular ligaments of the articular pro- cesses, ligamenta subflava of the arches, interspinous and supraspinous ligaments, and by an intervertebral disc, all of which are similar to those between the vertebrae above. It is also attached to the pelvis by two other ligaments, as follows. The sacro-vertebral ligament is a variable fasciculus, passing from the lower border of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra obliquely downwards to the lateral part of the base of the sacrum ; its fibres diverge as they descend, and some of them join the anterior sacro- iliac ligament. The ilio-lunibar ligament is a strong band extended horizontally Fig. 139. Fig. 139.—Articulations of the pelvis and hip-joint, seen from before. The ANTERIOR HALF OF THE CAPSULAR LIGAMENT OF THE LEFT HIP-JOINT HAS BEEN REMOVED, AND TIIE FEMUR ROTATED OUTWARDS. (A. T.) 5 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the vertebra passing down to the front of tho sacrum ; 2, ilio-lumbar ligament; 3, anterior sacro-iliac ligament; between 2 and 3, on the right side, the sacro-vertebral ligament is shown, but not with sufficient distinctness ; 4, placed in the great sacro-sciatie foramen, points to the small sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, a portion of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; 6, anterior ligament of the symphysis pubis; 7, obturator membrane ; 8, capsular ligament of hip-joint: the figure is placed on its ilio-femoral band ; 9, upper part of tlie divided capsular ligament of the left hip- joint near the place of its attachment to the border of the acetabulum ; 10, placed on the os pubis of the left side above the transverse ligament of the acetabular notch. The head of the femur is withdrawn partially from the socket, so as to show the interarticular ligament stretched from the transverse ligament.165 ARTICULATIONS OF THE SACRUM AND COCCYX. between the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra and the iliac crest of the hip-bone ; it is inserted into the latter above the back part of the iliac fossa, where its fibres expand somewhat, so as to give it a triangular form. Articulations of the Sacrum and Coccyx, and of the Pieces of the Coccyx.—The sacrum and the coccyx are united by an inter- vertebral disc ; by an anterior ligament, a thin layer of fibres forming a continuation of the anterior common ligament of the vertebral; by a posterior ligament, more strongly developed, which descends from the margin of the inferior orifice of the sacral canal to the back of the coccyx ; by interarticular ligaments between the cornua of the two bones ; and by lateral ligaments, passing on each side from the lower lateral angle of the sacrum to the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx. The pieces of the coccyx, so long as they remain separate, are connected by fibro-cartilaginous discs and prolongations of the above mentioned anterior and posterior ligaments. A distinct cavity is stated by Craveilbier (“ Anatomie descriptive,” t. i. p. 305. Paris, 1877) to be present in the centre of the disc between the sacrum and coccyx in those cases in which the coccyx is freely moveable. This is in con- formity with the observations of Luschka on the other intervertebral discs. In the male, after middle life, the union between the sacrum and coccyx, and between the pieces of the latter, is usually ossific. In the female this change does not generally occur till a more advanced age, the pieces of the coccyx uniting one to another in the first place, and the joint between the sacrum and coccyx not ossifying till old age. The mobility seems to increase during pregnancy. Fig. 140. Fig. 140.—Ligaments of the pelvis and hip-joint seen from behind, from a FEMALE SUBJECT. (A. T.) 5 1, ilio-lumbar ligament ; 2, posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, the short and the oblique ; 3, great sacro-sciatic ligament; 4, small sacro-sciatic ligament; 5, obturator membrane ; 6, posterior ligament of symphysis pubis ; 7, 7, continuation of supraspinous ligament from the lower lumbar vertebrae over the sacral spines ; 8, transverse process of last lumbar vertebra, from which the sacro-vertebral ligament is seen descending ; 9, capsular ligament of the hip-joint.ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. 1G6 capsular ligament relaxed ; 11, shaft The sacro-iliac articulation is formed between the auricular surfaces of the sacrum and ilium, which are covered each with a layer of cartilage, that on the sacrum being the thicker, and closely applied to- gether, but are not usually directly united. In some cases, however, the two surfaces are connected in part of their extent by fine transverse fibres; whilst on the other hand, it not unfrequently happens, especially in advanced life, that the surfaces become rough and irregular, and are separated by small spaces containing glairy fluid. The bones are united by anterior and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments, and the articulation re- ceives additional support from the great and small sacro-sciatic ligaments. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of thin irregular fibres passing between the sacrum and hip-bone on their iliac and pelvic surfaces. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of a large number of strong irregular fibres extending from the rough space above the auricular surface of the ilium, downwards and inwards to the depressions on the back of the lateral mass of the sacrum. A superficial band, passing nearly vertically downwards from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third and fourth pieces of the sacrum, is distinguished as the long or obliqve sacro-iliac ligament. The sacro-sciatic ligaments.—The posterior or great sacro- sciatic ligament, broad and triangular, assists in bounding the lower aperture of the pelvis. Its base is attached to the posterior inferior iliac spine and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx ; whilst its apex is fixed Fig. 141.—Right half of a female PELVIS, SEEN FROM THE INNER SIDE. (A. T.) f 1, supraspinous ligament descend- ing to the sacrum from 2, 2, the lumbar spinous processes ; 3, 4, lumbar and sacral spinal canal ; 5, placed on the ilium above the anterior sacro-iliac ligament ; 6, placed in the great sacro- sciatic foramen, points to the small sacro-sciatic ligament; 7, great sacro- sciatic ligament, with 7', its falciform process ; 8, aperture where a portion, of the wall of the cotyloid cavity has been removed, so as to give a view from the inside of the head of the femur ; 9, interarticular ligament put upon the stretch, the femur being partially flexed and adducted ; 10, inner part of the of the femur. along the inner margin of the ischial tuberosity, where it ex- pands somewhat, and sends for- wards along the margin of the ischial ramus a falciform process, the border of which is continuous with, and forms the inferior attachment of, the obturator fascia. Some of the superficial fibres of the ligament are continued over the tuberosity into the tendon of the long head of the biceps muscle. The anterior or small sacro-sciatic ligament, much shorter and Fig. 141.167 THE SYMPHYSIS PUEIS. thinner than the preceding, in front of which jit lies, is also triangular in form, and is attached by its base to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, where its fibres are blended with those of the great ligament; and by its apex to the spine of the ischium. The deep surface of this ligament is blended with the coccygeus muscle. Foramina. Between the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the innominate bone, is a large space subdivided by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The part which lies above this ligament is named the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It transmits the pyriformis muscle and the gluteal, sciatic, and pudic vessels and nerves. The part between the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments, much smaller and bounded in front by the smooth surface between the spine and tuberosity of the ischium, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, through which pass the obturator interims muscle and the pudic vessels and nerve. The pubic articulation, or symphysis pubis, is the connection of the pubic bones in front, and is effected by an interpubic disc and ligaments. The interpubic disc consists of a layer of cartilage on each side, closely adherent to the bony surfaces, and an intermediate stratum of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage. The intermediate layer is thicker in front than behind, and generally contains a fissure towards the upper and back part, which sometimes extends through the whole depth of the articula- tion. The ligaments are named anterior,posterior, superior, and inferior. The anterior pubic ligament consists of irregular fibres passing obliquely across from bone to bone in front of the symphysis. The superior and posterior ligaments consist of only a few fibres on the upper and back parts of the articulation. The inferior or subpubic ligament, thick and triangular, is attached to the rami of the pubic bones, giving smoothness and roundness to the subpubic angle, and forming part of the outlet of the pelvis. The fissure in the interpubic disc appears to be formed during' life by the softening and absorption of the fibro-cartilage. It is not found before the seventh year, it increases in extent with advancing age, and is more constant and of larger size in the female than in the male (Aeby). Its greater development in the female sex may be in part due to the pressure exerted upon the joints of the pelvis during parturition, but it is not a regular accompaniment or a direct consequence of pregnancy. The obturator membrane, or ligament, is a fibrous septum attached to the border of the thyroid foramen, which it closes, except at the upper and outer part of its circumference, where a small oval canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. The membrane is fixed accurately to the bony margin at the upper and outer sides of the foramen, and to the posterior surface at the inner side. The obturator muscles are attached to its surfaces. Movements.—In ordinary circumstances there is very little movement allowed between the bones of the pelvis. In the erect posture the sacrum is thrown so much backwards that none of the advantage of the key-stone of an arch is obtained by the tapering of its form from base to apex. It is only by the sinuosities of its auricular surfaces that it directly presses on the hip-bones ; and as the width of the bone rather diminishes at the upper part, the principal strain is borne by the posterior sacro-iliao ligaments, from which the sacrum is in great measure suspended (see fig. 142). The space which might be gained by the small amount of movement which is allowed between the bones of the pelvis in the ordinary state is increased dining parturition in this way, that the fore part1G8 ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. of the sacrum being- pressed backwards, the wider part of the wedge formed by this bone is forced farther between the hip-bones so as to separate them to a greater degree, and thus to increase the capacity of the pelvis. It is thought also by some that during pregnancy a slight amount of separation may occur at the symphysis pubis from relaxation of the connecting parts. (See Wood, article Pelvis ” in “ Cyclopoed. of Anat. and Phys.” ; Zaglas, in Monthly Joum. of Med. Science, 1851 ; J. M. Duncan, in Dublin Quart. Joum. of Med. Science, 1854, and Edin. Med. Joum. 1855 ; Struthers, “ Anat. Observ.” ; Aeby, Zeitsch. f. rat. Med. 1858.) ARTICULATIONS OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. THE HIP-JOINT. This is a ball and socket joint, in which the globular head of the femur is received into the acetabulum or cotyloid cavity of the hip-bone. The articular portion of the acetabulum is a horseshoe-shaped cartilage- covered surface, broader above and behind than in front, and folded round a depression which, extending from the cotyloid notch to the bottom of the cavity, is occupied by adipose tissue covered with synovial membrane, the so-called synovial or Haversian gland. The articular surface of the femur presents a little behind and below its centre a pit in which the interarticular ligament is attached. The cotyloid ligament forms a thick fibro-cartilaginous ring round the margin of the acetabulum, increasing the_depth of its cavity, and bridging over the deficiency in its border. Its external surface is in contact with the capsular ligament, the internal closely embraces the head of the femur, and both are covered by the synovial membrane. Its fibres do not run parallel to the circumference of the cotyloid cavity, but pass obliquely from without inwards over its margin, one extremity being attached to the outer, the other to the inner surface. At the cotyloid notch the fibres of the ligament are continued from side to side, so as to render the circumference complete, and deeper transverse fibres are superadded, from which circumstance, as well as from being stretched across from one margin of the notch to the other, this part is called the transverse ligament. Beneath it an interval is left for the admission of the articular vessels. The interarticular or round ligament (ligamentum teres) is a variable fasciculus surrounded by synovial membrane, attached by one extremity, which is round, in the fossa on the head of the femur; by the other, which is broad and flat, to the transverse ligament and the margins of the cotyloid notch, the strongest fibres passing to the ischial border. It rests on the fat in the depression of the acetabulum. The capsular ligament surrounding the joint is attached superiorly to the margin of the cotyloid cavity, and interiorly to the neck of the femur. At its cotyloid attachment the capsule arises, above and behind, from the bony margin outside the attachment of the cotyloid ligament, having its inner surface in close contact with that ligament ; in front it arises from the outer aspect of the cotyloid ligament near its base, and at the notch it is similarly attached to the transverse ligament. At its femoral attachment the capsule extends anteriorly to the intertrochanteric line, superiorly to the root of the great trochanter, posteriorly and interiorly to the junction of the middle and external thirds of the neck. The fibres of which the capsule consists run in two directions, circularly and longitudinally. The circular fibres are most distinct at the lower169 TIIE HIP-JOINT. and posterior part of the capsule, where they are collected into a band about half an inch in breadth, which embraces the neck of the femur ; above and in front they spread out and become interwoven with the deeper layers of the strongly developed longitudinal fibres, by which they are thus concealed. The longitudinal fibres on the posterior aspect of the joint are almost absent, being represented only by a few scattered Fig. 142. Fig. 142.—Transverse oblique section op the pelvis and iiii>-joint, cutting the FIRST SACRAL VERTEBRA AND THE SYMPnVSIS PUBIS IN THEIR MIDDLE, FROM A MALE SUBJECT OF ABOUT NINETEEN YEARS OF AGE. (A. T.) ^ 1, first sacral vertebra; 2, ilium; 3, posterior sacro-iliac ligament; 4, cavity of the sacro-iliac articulation ; 5, anterior sacro-iliac ligament; 6, small sacro-sciatie ligament; 7, great sacro-sciatic ligament; 8, placed in front of the symphysis pubis, in the cut surface of which the small median cavity, the adjacent cartilaginous plates, and the anterior and posterior ligamentous fibres are shown; 9, lower part of the obturator membrane ; 10, cartilaginous surface of the cotyloid cavity, through the middle of which the incision passes transversely, dividing the interarticular ligament and the fat in the depression ; 11, cotyloid ligament; 12, interarticular ligament connected with the trans- verse part of the cotyloid ligament; 13, placed on the cut surface of the head of the left femur near the depression where the interarticular ligament is attached ; 14, 14', upper and lower parts of the capsular ligament. fibres which support the synovial membrane, and attach the circular fibres to the neck of the femur. In other parts of the capsule the longitudinal fibres form thick bands, certain of which from their greater size and strength are distinguished as accessory ligaments. The most important of these is formed on the anterior and superior aspects of the170 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIME. capsule and is known as the ilio-femoral ligament. This springs above from the lower part of the anterior inferior iliac spine, and behind this from an impression on the bone immediately above the margin of the acetabulum ; the fibres diverge and form two strong bands, the inner of which passes almost vertically to the lower part of the anterior intertro- chanteric line ; the outer to the upper part of the same line and the adjacent part of the neck of the femur. Between the two bands is a thinner part of the capsule ; but it not unfrequently happens that the division is not marked, so that the ligament forms one flat triangular band, attached by its base to the whole length of the anterior intertro- chanteric line.* At the lower and hinder part of the joint, a broad and strong band of fibres, iscliio-capsular ligament, passes from the furrow on the ischium below the acetabulum to end in the circular fibres. In front and below may be also found a number of scattered fibrous bundles, which converge to the capsule from the ilio-pectineal eminence, from the margin of the obturator foramen, and from the obturator membrane, constituting the pubofemoral ligament. Besides these the capsule re- ceives above other strengthening bands from the tendon of the posterior head of the rectus femoris, and from the gluteus minimus. From the inside of the capsule the innermost fibres are reflected upwards from their insertion upon the neck of the femur to the articular cartilage, forming a surface partly level and partly raised into longitudinal folds called retinacula. The synovial membrane of the joint is reflected from the neck of the femur to the inner surface of the capsule, thence to the inner surface of the cotyloid ligament and to the pad of fat in the bottom of the ace- tabulum, from which it is further prolonged as a tubular investment upon the interarticular ligament. It sometimes communicates, through an opening in the anterior wall of the capsule, with a synovial bursa placed beneath the tendon of the ilio-psoas muscle. Movements.—The movements allowed at the hip-joint are flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. Extension is limited by the anterior fibres of the capsular ligament, and the inner band of the ilio-femoral ligament : flexion is limited only by the contact of the thigh with the abdomen. Abduction is controlled by the pubo-femoral band, and by the lower part of the capsule; adduction by the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament, and by the upper part of the capsule. Rotation outwards is checked mainly by the outer part of the ilio-femoral ligament, inwards by the ischio-capsular ligament, the hinder part of the capsule, and by the muscles at the back of the joint. The whole extent of this movement is less than the sixth of a circle. The inter- articular ligament is put upon the stretch when the hip is partly flexed, and the thigh then adducted, or rotated out, but it is in many cases so slender that it can have very little influence upon the mechanism of the joint. The ilio-femoral ligament is so strong that it is but rarely broken in dislocations of the hip, and advantage is taken of this circumstance in attempting to reduce the displacement by manipulation. The swinging antero-posterior movement of the femur, as in walking or running, is affected by rotation of the head of the bone in the hip- joint. In the erect attitude a vertical line passing through the centre of gravity of the trunk falls behind the centres of rotation in the hip-joints ; the pelvis therefore tends to fall backwards by over extension of the hip-joints, but as this is prevented by the tightening of the capsule in front, the trunk is supported Upon the thigh-bones in great measure without muscular effort by virtue of this mechanism of the joint. * The outer or upper of these bands is sometimes described separately as the ilio- trochanteric ligament; and the whole structure is frequently designated by surgeons the Y ligament of Bigelow.1U TIIE KNEE-JOINT. THE KNEE-JOINT. The articular surfaces of this complicated joint are the condyles of the femur and the condylar surfaces of the tibia, with interposed fibre- cartilages, the articulating surface of the patella, and the patellar surface of the femur. The action is mainly that of a hinge-joint. The joint is strengthened superficially by fibrous coverings derived from the surrounding tendons and aponeuroses. The ligaments which have received special names are the following. The internal lateral ligament, long and flat, connects the internal tuberosity of the femur with the inner part of the shaft of the tibia, on which it descends to beyond the level of the tubercle : some of the deeper fibres are also inserted into the internal fibro-cartilage and the margin of the inner tuberosity. The tendon of the semimembranosus muscle Fig. 143. A B Fig. 143, A.—Right-knee joint, from the inside and anteriorly. (A. T.) -J- 1, tendon of the rectus muscle near its insertion into the patella ; 2, insertion of the vastus internus into the rectus tendon and side of the patella; 3, ligamentum patellie descending to the tubercle of the tibia ; 4, capsular fibres forming a lateral ligament of the patella prolonged in part from the insertion of the vastus internus downwards towards the inner tuberosity of the tibia : 5, internal lateral ligament ; 6, tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle. (After Arnold.) Fig. 143, B.—Right knee-joint from behind. (A. T.) 1, insertion of the tendon of adductor magnus ; 2, origin of the inner head of the gas- trocnemius muscle ; 3, outer head of the same ; 4, external lateral ligament ; 5, tendon of the popliteus muscle ; 6, part of internal lateral ligament ; 7, tendon of the semimem- branosus muscle ; 8, posterior ligament, spreading outward from the tendon ; 9, expansion of the popliteal fascia downwards from the same, represented as cut short ; 10, on the head of fibula, marks the posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament ; 11, upper part of the interosseous membrane with the foramen at the upper end for the anterior tibial artery.ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 172 passes to its insertion beneath the posterior border of the ligament, and below the inner tuberosity the lower internal articular vessels are placed between the ligament and the bone. The external lateral ligament is a rounded cord, which extends from the external tuberosity of the femur to the head of the fibula. Its internal surface lies upon the tendon of the popliteus muscle and the inferior external articular vessels. The tendon of the biceps flexor cruris muscle is divided into two by this ligament, and between the ligament and the tendon there is frequently a synovial bursa. Farther back is another less constant band, the short external lateral ligament, which springs from the external condyle of the femur in connection with the outer head of the gastrocnemius, and terminates below on the styloid process of the fibula. Fig. 144. A B Fig. 144, A.—The knee-joint, opened from before, to show the crucial liga- ments AND SEMILUNAR FIBRO-CARTILAGES. (A. T.) 1 1, external, and 2, internal semilunar fibro-cartilage ; 3, on the outer condyle of the femur, points to the anterior crucial ligament; 4, placed on the line separating the patellar surface from the inner condylar surface of the femur, points to the posterior crucial liga- ment ; 5, transverse ligament of the semilunar fibro-eartilages ; 6, part of the ligamentum patellae; 7, on the head of the fibula, points to the superior anterior tibio-fibular ligament ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane, showing the perforation for the anterior tibia! artery. Fig. 144, B.—The knee-joint, opened from behind, so as to expose the crucial LIGAMENTS AND SEMILUNAR FIBF.O-CARTILAGES. (A. T.) ^ 1, internal, 2, external semilunar fibro-cartilage; 3, anterior, 4. posterior crucial ligament : farther up is seen the accessory band from the external semilunar fibro- cartilage ; 8, upper part of the interosseous membrane ; 9, internal lateral ligament ; 10, placed on the head of the fibula, points to the posterior superior tibio-fibular liga- ment ; between the head of the fibula and the external fibro-cartilage (2) is seen the sur- face of the tibia, upon which the semilunar cartilage descends in flexion, and where a communication sometimes takes place between the synovial cavities of the knee-joint and of the tibio-fibular articulation.THE KNEE-JOINT. 173 The posterior ligament is broad and membranous, and passes from the upper part of the intercondylar fossa of the femur to the posterior margin of the head of the tibia. It is in great part formed by an expan- sion from the tendon of the semimembranosus, which is directed upwards and outwards towards the external condyle of the femur, and the outer head of the gastrocnemius muscle. The ligamentum patellae is a strong flat band, attached superiorly to the apex and lower border of the patella, and interiorly to the tubercle of the tibia. Between the tibia and the ligament, near its insertion, is placed a synovial bursa. If the patella be considered a sesamoid bone, this ligament must be regarded as part of the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris muscle. The crucial ligaments, placed in the centre of the joint, pass from the sides of the intercondylar fossa to the spaces in front of and behind the spine of the tibia. They decussate somewhat like the lines of the letter X. The anterior or external ligament is fixed by its lower extremity to the inner part of the depression before the spine of the tibia, and by its upper extremity it is inserted into the inner and hinder- part of the external condyle of the femur ; hence its direction is upwards, backwards, and outwards. The posterior or internal ligament is attached interiorly to the back of the depression behind the tibial spine and superiorly to the lower part of the outer surface of the internal condyle, as well as to the adjacent part of the intercondylar fossa of the femur ; its fibres are directed upwards and a little forwards and inwards. The semilunar fibro-cartilages are two crescent-shaped plates, placed on the articulating surfaces of the head of the tibia, and inter- posed between these and the condyles of the femur. They have each a smooth free surface above and below, and a convex border, which is thick, while the concave border is thinned to a fine edge, and the part of the articular surface of the tibia within the concave border of each Fig. 145,—View of toe semilunar fibro- cartilages OF TIIE RIGHT KNEE-JOINT, FROM ABOVE, WITH THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS DIVIDED, AND THE LIGAMENTUM I'ATELLSG TURNED FOR- WARDS. (A. T.) g 1, ligamentum patellae ; 2, inner, 3, outer fibro- cartilage ; 4, placed on the tibia in front of the transverse ligament; 5, cut end of the anterior crucial ligament; 6, cut end of the posterior crucial ligament, from which fibres are seen descending to the outer fibro-cartilage ; 6', tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament; 7, head of the fibula; 8, cartilage-covered surface of the tibia, which extends for some way downwards towards the tibio-fibular articulation. Fig. 145. cartilage is left uncovered. At their extremities they are fibrous, and are firmly fixed to the head of the tibia, whilst by the circumference they are connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage forms about a semicircle ; its anterior extremity is small and pointed, and is inserted into an im- pression at the fore and inner part of the hollow before the spine of the tibia ; its posterior end is attached to the inner edge of the hollow behind the spine, in front of the posterior crucial ligament. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage forms nearly a completeARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 146.—Sagittal section1 op the left knee- 171 Fig. 146. the femur ; 1', an aperture made into the posterior circle ; its two extremities are fixed, one in front of, the other between the points of the spine of the tibia, and are so close at their insertion that they may be said to be interposed between the attachments of the in- ternal semilunar plate. Its external border is in contact behind with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and is therefore separated by this from the fibrous capsule. From the posterior extremity of this fibro- cartilage a ligamentous band ascends, to be attached to the inner condyle of the femur in connection, either in front or behind, with the posterior crucial ligament. Transverse ligament.—Towards the front of the joint the convex borders of the semilunar fibro-cartilages are connected by a slight transverse band which receives this name. Its thickness varies much in different bodies, and it is sometimes wanting. Capsular membrane.—Under this name is described the fibrous membrane which invests the joint in the intervals between the stronger bands which have been named ligaments. It is incomplete, not ex- joint, SEEN FROM THE OUTER OR LEFT SIDE. (A. T.) i The section is made somewhat obliquely a little to the outside of the middle, so as to preserve entire the crucial ligaments with their attachments : it is from a young subject of eighteen or nineteen years. 1, 1, the upper portion of the synovial cavity ex- tending upwards between the extensor tendon and portion of the synovial cavity ; 2, 2', mucous liga- ment ; 3, ligamentum patellae; 2, 3, infrapatellar synovial fatty cushion ; 4, bursa above the inser- tion of the ligamentum patellae into the tubercle of the tibia ; 5, 5', anterior crucial ligament; 5', points also to the internal semilunar fibro-caitilage within the joint ; 6, lower part of the posterior crucial ligament, the upper part of which is towards 2 ; 6', the accessory band joining the ex- ternal semilunar fibro-cartilage, which is cut short; 7, spine of the tibia. tending underneath the tendons of the extensor muscles. Between the sides of the patella and the femur it consists of fibres connected with the insertions of the vasti muscles and with the fascia lata, and thus forms the structures which have been called lateral patellar liga- ments. Posteriorly it is thin, covering the condyles of the femur beneath the gastrocnemius muscle, and it frequently presents an aperture beneath the inner head of that muscle, through which the bursa under the semi- membranosus tendon is put into communication with the joint cavity. The synovial membrane is the largest in the body. Traced down- wards from the femur on either side of the joint, it may be followed along the capsule to the upper surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, round the free borders of those structures to their inferior surfaces, and thence to the tibia. The crucial ligaments are invested in front by a reflected portion of the membrane continued forwards from the posterior wall ot175 THE KNEE-JOINT. superior tibio-peroneal ligament; 11, upper part of interosseous membrane. the joint. Between the tibia and patella the synovial membrane lies upon a large pad or cushion of fat, on the surface of which it forms two lateral folds (alar ligaments) which fit into the space between the lower part of the patella and the femur, while from the middle of the pad it sends backwards a variably developed process, the mucous ligament, through the joint to the front of the intercondylar fossa. Above the patella the synovial membrane extends upwards for a short distance under the extensor tendon, and the pouch thus formed communicates in most cases more or less freely with a bursa situated here between the tendon and the anterior surface of the femur. Movements, &c.—In order to explain the nature of the movements, it is necessary to state some considerations with regard to the relations of the several parts of the knee-joint to each other. The knee-joint may be regarded as con- sisting of three articulations conjoined, viz., that between the patella and femur, and two others, one between each condyle of the femur and the tibia. In many mammals the synovial membranes of those three joints are either completely distinct or communicate with each other by only small openings ; and this some- times occurs in man. In the human subject the mucous ligament is an indica- tion of this separation of the synovial cavities of the inner and outer joints, and the crucial ligaments may be looked upon as the external and internal lateral ligaments of those two joints respectively. On the cartilage-covered articular Fig. 147. Fig. 147.—The superficial parts of the knee-joint removed, and the external CONDYLE OF THE FEMUR SAWN OFF OBLIQUELY, TOGETHER WITH HALF THE PATELLA, SO AS TO EXPOSE BOTH THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS TOGETHER. (A. T.) \ In A, tlie parts are in the position of extension, in B, that of flexion, the figures being designed to show the different states of tension of the cmeial ligaments in these positions. 1, sawn surface of femur; 2, sawn surface of patella; 3, ligamentum patellae; 4, anterior or external crucial ligament, tense in A, and relaxed in B; 5, posterior or internal crucial ligament, partly relaxed in A, tense in B ; 6, internal, and 7, external semilunar fibro- cartilage ; 8, transverse ligament ; 9, articular surface of the tibia, extending behind the external semilunar fibro-cartilage; 10, on the head of the fibula, points to the anterior176 ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. surface of the femur also a corresponding subdivision into three parts is to be recognised, the trochlear surface for the patella being separated from the convex tibial surfaces by two shallow transverse grooves which receive the fibro- cartilages in the extended position of the joint; but along the inner margin of the intercondylar fossa there is marked off from the rest of the internal condyle a narrow semilunar facet which is common to two of the articulations, being in contact with the spine of the tibia in extension, but with the innermost facet of the patella in extreme flexion. The movement of the patella on the femur is one partly of gliding, partly of coaptation. This is illustrated by a careful examination of the articular surface of the patella, which is not uniformly curved from above downwards, as it would be, were the movement one of gliding only, but exhibits on each side of the vertical ridge three very slightly depressed surfaces, separated by two slight transverse elevations, and along the inner margin a seventh area, upon which the transverse lines do not encroach (Goodsir.) When the knee is extended, and the patella drawn upwards by the extensor muscles, the two inferior facets of the patella are in contact with the upper margin of the trochlear surface ; in semiflexion the middle facets only are in contact with the femur ; in greater flexion, the superior parts of the patella are in contact with the lower parts of the trochlear surface; and in extreme flexion the patella, which has been gradually turned outwards by the increasing prominence of the inner condyle, rests by its innermost facet against the narrow surface on the outer margin of the internal condyle, and by its upper and outer facet on the fore part of the ex- ternal condyle. The articulation between each condyle and the opposed almost flat surface of the tibia, while resembling, is not exactly a hinge-joint, and ex- tension and flexion, the movements of which it is capable, are produced by a combination of gliding, rolling, and rotation. If the condyles of the femur be examined as they rest upon the tibia in the flexed position of the joint, it will be seen that the inner condyle is longer than the outer, and that its anterior portion inclines obliquely outwards, to reach the patellar surface. In the move- ment of extension the condyles move parallel to one another, both gliding and rolling until extension is nearly completed, and then, the anterior part of the rolling surface of the external condyle having already come into full contact with the tibia, the inner condyle continues to glide backwards, bringing its oblique anterior part into contact with the tibia, so that the bone is rotated inwards on the tibia, and over-extension is prevented, not merely by the tightness of the ligaments, but by the femur being pressed up against the tibial spine. In com- plete extension the lateral ligaments and the anterior crucial ligament are tight, while the posterior crucial ligament is in part relaxed ; in flexion, the posterior crucial ligament only is tightened, the others being relaxed. In extension of the joint no rotation of the leg is possible ; in the flexed condition a considerable amount is allowed. The semilunar fibro-cartilages being loosely attached to the head of the tibia, move forwards in extension and backwards in flexion of the joint; and further as the condyles rolling upon the tibia present successively to the condylar surfaces of that bone portions having different curvatures, each cartilage, like a moveable wedge, is contracted round the condyle during flexion of the joint and expanded during extension. In extension of the knee, as the weight of the body keeps the bones in their position, the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella drops down from its position in contact with the femur, and the mucous liga- ment then comes into play, supporting the synovial membrane and fat below the patella. As the line of the centre of gravity of the body in the erect attitude descends in front of the axis of motion of the knee-joint, there is a tendency to over-extension of the joint, which is resisted by the tension of the whole of the anterior and part of the posterior crucial, as well as of the posterior and both lateral ligaments, and thus the maintenance of the erect attitude without mus- cular effort is partly due to the mechanism of the knee-joint. (See H. Meyer, Muller’s Archiv, 1853 ; Goodsir, “ Anatomical Memoirs,” ii. 220, 231 ; Langer, Sitzungsber. d. Acad, der Wissensck, Wien, 1858; Henke, Zeitschr, fur rat. Med., v. viii., 1859.)THE ANKLE-JOINT. 177 Fig. 148. transverse or inferior ligament is a short band of TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. The tibia and fibula form articulations at their upper aud lower extremities, and their shafts are united by an interosseous membrane. Upper tibio-fibular articulation.—-The superior extremities of the bones present two flattened oval articular surfaces, retained in close contact by thin anterior and posterior superior tibio-fibular ligaments, both of which pass upwards and inwards from the head of the fibula to the external tuberosity of the tibia. The synovial cavity of this joint not unfrequently communicates posteriorly with that of the knee. The interosseous membrane or ligament, which connects the shafts of the tibia and fibula, passes between the external border of the tibia and the interosseous ridge of the fibula, and is composed for the most part of parallel fibres running outwards and downwards, only a few fibres crossing in a different direction. It presents superiorly an elongated opening for the transmission of the anterior tibial vessels, and interiorly a small interval is left between it and the lower articulation for the passage of the anterior peroneal vessels. Lower tibio-fibular articulation.—The inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are in contact by surfaces which for the most part are rough and bound together by ligament, but near their lower edges are smooth and covered with cartilage. The tibial surface is concave, the fibular is correspondingly convex. The strong short fibres which pass directly between the opposed surfaces form the inferior interosseous liga- ment. The anterior ligament (fig. 152, 2) is a flat band of fibres, extended obliquely over the lower part of the bones, the direction of its fibres being downwards from the tibia to the fibula. The posterior ligament is similarly disposed behind the articulation. The yellowish fibres under cover of the posterior liga- ment ; it runs horizontally from the hinder border of the lower articular surface of the tibia to the contiguous part of the external malleolus, and closes the angular interval between the bones. The synovial cavity between the small articular surfaces is an extension of that of the ankle-joint. THE ANKLE-JOINT. In this articulation, which is a hinge-joint, the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula are united so as to present a three-sided hollow, which embraces the astragalus and renders lateral move- ment impossible when the ligaments are tense. Fig. 148.—The lower tibio-fibular articulation and ANKLE-JOINT, FROM BEHIND (A. T.) ^ 1, interosseous membrane; 2, posterior ligament of the lower tibio-fibular articulation ; 3, internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 4, posterior, and 5, middle bands of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, external, and 7, posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligaments. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament (fig. 151,1) is a flat fasciculus of fibres, much broader at the lower than at the upper part. One extremity178 ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 149.—Frontal section op the right ankle-joint near Fig. 149. is attached to the notch on the inferior border of the internal malleolus ; the other, to the inner side of the astragalus, the sustentaculum tali of the os calcis, the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament, and the navicular bone. The external lateral ligament (fig. 152, 4, 5, 6) consists of three distinct bands separated by intervals and disposed in different directions. 1. The middle band descends from the extremity of the fibula, to the external surface of the os calcis. 2. The anterior band passes obliquely forwards and inwards from the fore part of the outer malleolus to a part of the astragalus in front of its external malleolar surface ; it is the shortest of the three. 3. The posterior band, the strongest of the three, passes almost horizontally inwards from the pit on the inner side of the malleolus to the posterior sm’face of the astragalus. ITS MIDDLE, AND OP THE POSTERIOR ASTRAGALO-CALCANEAL ARTICULATION, SO AS TO SHOW THE SHAPE OP THE ARTICULAR SURFACES AND CAVITIES, VIEWED FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | 1, internal; 2, external malleolus ; 3, placed on the astrag- alus at the angle between its superior and its external sur- faces ; 4, inferior interosseous tibio-fibular ligament; 5, in- ternal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 6, sustentaculum tali ; 7, calcaneo-fibular or middle part of the external lateral ligament ; 8, inner part of the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament; 9, tuberosity of the calcaneum. The anterior and posterior ligaments are merely scattered fibres in front of and behind the joint; those of the posterior ligament are weak and principally transverse. The synovial membrane of the ankle-joint extends upwards by a small process which lines the lower part of the inferior peroneo-tibial articulation. Movements.—The movements of the ankle-joint are mainly those of flexion and extension of the foot, the directions of those movements being determined by the shape of the articular surfaces. The external border of the superior car- tilaginous sin-face of the astragalus is curved, and longer than the internal border, and hence extension of the ankle-joint is accompanied with a slight in- ward movement of the fore part of the foot. The horizontal surfaces of both the tibia and astragalus are broader in front than behind ; hence in complete exten- sion of the ankle the narrow part of the astragalus is brought into the widest part of the space between the malleoli, and a certain amount of lateral motion is allowed under the influence of external force, whereas in complete flexion, as when the weight of the body, with fully bent knees, is supported on the toes, the broad part of the surface of the astragalus is pushed back into the narrowest part of the space, and the inferior extremity of the fibula is pressed upon, so as to stretoh the ligaments between it and the tibia, and thus to prevent lateral movement of the joint, and give it at the same time a certain amount of spring. There appears to be no other movement between the tibia and fibula ; these bones being bound together at their lower ends with remarkable firmness. ARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. Articulations of the Calcaneum, Astragalus, and Navicular Bone one with another.—The astragalus is connected with the calcaneum by two synovial articulations, viz., by a posterior one pecu- liar to those two bones, and by an anterior one common to them withTARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 179 Fig. 150. Fig. 150.—Ligaments of the foot, seen fkom placed upon the internal cuneiform bone ; from 6 and the navicular bone. The following are the principal parts requiring description. Astragalo-calcaneal ligaments.—The interosseous ligament (fig. 153,4), broad and strong, passes downwards from the groove between the anterior and posterior articular surfaces of the astragalus to the similar groove between the corresponding articular surfaces of the calcaneum. A membranous 'posterior ligament connects the posterior border of the astra- galus with the calcaneum ; its fibres are oblique and very short. There is also an inconstant external ligament, consisting of a slight fasciculus of fibres, which descends from the outer surface of the astragalus to the outer side of the calcaneum, parallel with the middle division of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It may be further observed, that those portions of the lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint which pass down over the astragalus to the os calcis assist in uniting these two bones. below. (A. T.) J 1 and 2, portions of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 3, long plantar ligament; 3', short plantar ligament ; 4, inferior calcaneonavicular ligament; 5, three naviculo-cuneiform ligaments ; 6, is placed upon the external cuneiform bone, towards which is seen coming from behind a cubo-cuneiform ligament ; 7, is 7, are seen passing forwards the plantar cuneo-meta- :! tarsal ligaments ; x , part of the first dorsal cuneo- I metatarsal ligament ; 8, plantar band from cuboid to fifth metatarsal bone ; 9, fibres prolonged from the I! long plantar ligament, forming the sheath of the pero- j neus longus tendon ; 10, 10, between these figures the j plantar intermetatarsal ligaments ; 11, 11, transverse metatarsal ligament; 12, intersesamoid ligament; 13, 13, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral metatarso-phalangeal liga- ments ; 14, 14, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral iDterpha- langeal ligaments of the first series ; those of the second series have no figure placed to mark them ; 15, plantar ligament of the interphalangeal articulation of the great toe. Calcaneo-navieular ligaments.— The calcaneum and navicular bones are not in contact, but they are connected by two ligaments. The inferior or plantar ligament, the larger of the two, is a broad band i which passes forwards and inwards from the fore part of the susten- taculum tali to the inferior surface of the navicular bone. It is in contact inferiorly with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, while superiorly it forms the floor of the articular cavity which receives the head of the astragalus, and is lined by synovial membrane. The external, dorsal, or interosseous ligament (fig. 152, 8) forms the external boundary of the cavity just mentioned, and lies deeply at the anterior part of the fossa (sinus pedis), between the astragalus and os calcis. Its fibres, very short, j are directed from behind forwards and inwards between the contiguous extremities of the bones. They are attached posteriorly to a ridge of the I os calcis that separates the articular surfaces for the astragalus and cuboid, and anteriorly to the outer side of the navicular bone.ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. 180 The astragalo-navicular ligament, a membranous band situated on the dorsum of the foot, extends obliquely forwards from the head of the astragalus to the upper surface of the navicular bone, and completes the capsule of the astragalo-calcaneo-navicular joint, formed in the rest of its extent by the inferior and external calcaneo-navicular ligaments. Two synovial membranes line the articulations of the calcaneum and navicular bone with the astragalus, one belonging to the astragalo-calcaneal joint, and the other to the astragalo-calcaneo-navicular articulation. Calcaneo-Cuboid Articulation.—The calcaneum is united to the cuboid bone by a synovial joint and ligaments. The inferior ligament consists of two distinct layers, of which one is superficial, the other deep-seated. The superficial part, called the long Fig. 151. Fig. 151.—Ligaments of the foot, from the inner side. (A. T.) i 1, internal lateral ligament of the ankle ; x , in front of the sustentaculum tali, show- ing part of the internal lateral ligament descending upon it; 2, posterior astragalo-calcaneal ligament ; 4, part of the long and short plantar ligaments seen from the inside ; 5, 6, astragalo-navicular ligament, divided into three portions ; 7, 8, first, 9, second dorsal naviculo-cuneiform ligaments; 10, intercuneiform, or transverse dorsal cuneiform, between the first and second cuneiform bones ; 11, first dorsal tarso-metatarsal ligament; 12, first inferior tarso-metatarsal; 13, internal lateral metatarso-phalangeal ; the internal sesamoid bone is seen below ; 14, internal lateral interphalangeal ligament of the first toe, plantar ligament (fig. 150, 3), is the longest of the tarsal ligaments. Its fibres, attached behind to the inferior surface of the calcaneum as far as the anterior tubercle, pass forwards, and are attached in greater part to the ridge on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; but some of them are continued onwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, covering the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The deep-seated part, or short plantar ligament (fig. 150, 3'), lies close to the bones, being separated from the superficial part by some areolar tissue. Its breadth is considerable, its length scarcely an inch. One extremity is attached to the anterior tubercle of the calcaneum, the other, somewhat expanded, to the depressed surface of the cuboid bone behind the ridge.181 TARSAL AETICULATIONS. The dorsal or superior ligament is a flat band, connecting the upper surfaces of the calcaneum and the cuboid bone. The internal or interosseous ligament is placed deeply in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and is closely connected with the external calcaneo-navicular ligameut. A separate synovial membrane lines this joint. Articulations of the Navicular, Cuboid, and Cuneiform Bones, one with another.—Naviculo-cuboid Articulation.—The navicular and cuboid bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, composed of short Fig. 152. Si/ 21 22 Fig. 152.—Ligaments of the foot, from the outside and dorsal aspect. (A.T.) J 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, anterior inferior tibio-peroneal liga- ment ; 3, posterior inferior tibio-peroneal ligament ; 4, middle, 5, anterior, and 6, posterior parts of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint; 7, is placed above the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament; 8, external calcaneo-navicular; 9, dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ; 10, part of the long plantar or calcaneo-cuboid ; 11, astragalo-navicular; 12 and 13, second and third navieulo-euneiform, and between them one of the inter- cuneiform ligaments ; 14, superior naviculo-cuboid ; 15, placed on the external cuneiform bone, points to the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments from that bone to the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; 16, cuneo-metatarsal ligament, from the first cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone ; between 15 and 16, are seen the cuneo-metatarsal ligaments which converge from the three cuneiform bones on the second metatarsal ; 17, cubo- metatarsal ligament passing to the fourth metatarsal bone ; 18, that to the fifth, 19 and x x, dorsal intermetatarsal ligaments; 20, lateral metatarso-digital ; 21, 22, lateral interphalangeal. thin fibres, extending obliquely between the two bones ; a plantar, con- sisting of transverse fibres ; and an interosseous ligament, which inter- venes between their contiguous surfaces. When the bones touch, which is not always the case, they present two small articulating surfaces, which are covered with cartilage and have between them an offset of the adjacent navieulo-euneiform synovial cavity. Navieulo-euneiform Articulation.—The navicular articulates with the three cuneiform bones by the smooth facets on its anterior surface, forming one continuous joint. They are united by dorsal ligaments, passing from the upper surface of the navicular to the first, second and third cuneiform bones, and by plantar ligaments, which are similarly diVARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 182 posed oil the under surface of the bones, but these are continuous with, or offsets from, the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle. C ubo-cuneiform Articulation.—The cuboid and the external cunei- form bones are connected by a dorsal ligament, which is a thin fasciculus of transverse fibres ; & plantar ligament, whose fibres are also transverse and rather indistinct; and a bundle of interosseous fibres. Between Fig. 153. Fig. 153.—The synovial cavities op the ankle-joint and the tarsal and TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATIONS, IN SECTION. (A.T.) \ The section has been carried obliquely upwards and inwards across the foot, and vertically through the upper part of the astragalus and the tibia. 1, cut surface of the tibia above the ankle-joint; 2, placed on the astragalus above the posterior astragalo- calcaneal synovial cavity ; 3, on the head of the astragalus close to the common astragalo- calcaneo-navicular synovial cavity ; 4, interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament ; 5, on the anterior edge of the calcaneum, points to the calcaneo-cuboid synovial cavity ; 6, internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament; 7, on the navicular bone, marks the common navi- culo-euneiform and intercuneiform synovial cavity ; 8, on the cuboid bone, points to the interosseous naviculo-euboid ligament; 9, internal, 10, middle, 11, external cuneiform bones ; 12, cuboid ; between these several bones the interosseous ligaments are shown ; from 13 to 17, are the metatarsal bones, with the interosseous ligaments between them ; between 9 and 14, the interosseous ligament from the internal cuneiform to the second metatarsal bone : there are also shown in this figure, the synovial cavity of the first tarso- metatarsal articulation, that between the middle and external cuneiform bones and the second and third metatarsal, and that between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. the two bones a distinct articulation is formed by cartilaginous surfaces ; it is provided sometimes with a separate synovial membrane, at others with an offset from that which belongs to the naviculo-cuneiform articu- lation. The three cuneiform bones are connected by transverse dorsal liga- ments and strong interosseous fibres ; the latter being their most efficient uniting structures. The synovial cavity of the naviculo-cuneiform articulation sends forwards two processes between these bones. Articulations of the Tarsus with the Metatarsus.—The four anterior bones of the tarsus, viz., the three cuneiform and the cuboid, articulate with the metatarsal bones ; and as the first and third cunei- form bones project beyond the middle one, and the third cuneiformTAESO-METATAESAL AETICULATIONS. 183 beyond the cuboid bone, the anterior surface of the tarsus is very irregular. The first metatarsal bone articulates with the internal cuneiform ; the second is wedged in between the first and third cunei- form, and rests against the second ; the third metatarsal bone articu- lates with the extremity of the external cuneiform ; and the last two with the cuboid bone, the fourth having also usually an articulation with the external cuneiform. The articulations are synovial joints, and the bones are held in contact by dorsal, plantar, and interosseous ligaments. The dorsal tarso-meiatarsal ligaments (fig. 152) are flat thin bands of parallel fibres, which pass from behind forwards, connecting the conti- guous extremities of the bones before-mentioned. Thus the first meta- tarsal bone receives a broad thin band from the corresponding cuneiform bone ; the second receives three, which converge to its upper surface, one passing from each cuneiform bone ; the third has one from the external cuneiform bone ; and, finally, the last two are bound by a fasciculus to each from the cuboid bone, and by fibres from the external cuneiform to the fourth metatarsal bone. The plantar ligaments are less regular ; the bands of the first and second toes are more strongly marked than the corresponding ligaments on the dorsal surface ; and those of the fourth and fifth toes, which are merely a few scattered fibres passing to the cuboid, receive support from the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Ligamentous bands stretch in an oblique or transverse direction from the internal cuneiform to the second and third metatarsal bones, and from the external cuneiform to the fifth metatarsal. The interosseous ligaments run forwards between the bones, and from their strength and deep position oppose great resistance to the knife in separating the metatarsus from the tarsus, a. The internal and largest of these extends from the outer side of the first cuneiform bone to the neighbouring side of the second metatarsal, close to the articular surface, b. The middle, which is the smallest, and is less constant than the others, passes from the external cuneiform to the outer side of the second metatarsal bone. c. The external connects the outer side of the external cuneiform to the same side of the third meta- tarsal bone, and separates the articular cavity of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones from the rest. Synovial cavities.—There are three synovial cavities in this irregular series of articulations, a. One is between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bone ; the joint formed between these two bones is altogether separate and out of the range of the rest. b. A second synovial cavity is between the cuboid and the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones ; this is isolated on the inner side by the external inter- osseous ligament, c. The third or middle one is placed between the middle and external cuneiform and the second and third metatarsal bones, and is prolonged between the two last-named bones, as well as between the third and fourth metatarsal bones. This cavity generally communicates between the internal and middle cuneiform bones with that of the naviculo-cuneiform articulation. Intermetatarsal Articulations.—The metatarsal bones are oound together at their tarsal and digital ends ; very firmly in the former, and loosely in the latter situation. The tarsal ends of the four outer bones articulate with each other, having lateral cartilaginous surfaces, between which processes are sent184 ARTICULATIONS OP THE LOWER LIMB. forwards from the two outer synovial cavities of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and they are connected by dorsal, plantar, and inter- osseous ligaments. The dorsal and plantar ligaments are short trans- verse bands stretching across the four metatarsal bones from one to another. The interosseous ligaments, lying deeply between the bones, Fig. 154. Fig. 154.—Sagittal section of the ankle-joint and articulations of the right FOOT, A LITTLE TO THE INSIDE OF THE MIDDLE OF THE GREAT TOE. (A. T.) J 1, synovial cavity of tbe ankle-joint; 2, posterior astragalo-calcaneal articulation; 3, 3', astragalo-calcaneo-navicular articulation : the interosseous ligament is seen sepa- rating 2 from 3' ; 4, inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament; 5, part of the long plantar ligament; 6, naviculo-cuneiform articulation ; 7, first cuneo-metatarsal articulation ; 8, first metatarso-phalangeal articulation ; 9, section of the inner sesamoid hone ; 10, interphalangeal articulation ; 11, placed on the calcaneum, indicates the bursa between the upper part of the tuberosity of that bone and the tendo Achillis. connect the rough parts of their lateral surfaces ; they are of consider- able strength and firmness. The first and second metatarsal bones do not usually articulate laterally with each other. Transverse metatarsal iigament.—The digital extremities or heads of the metatarsal bones are loosely connected by a transverse band, which is identical in its arrangement with the corresponding structure in the hand, with this exception, that it is attached to the great toe, whereas in the hand the transverse metacarpal ligament does not reach the thumb. Metatarso-phalangeal and Interphalangeal Articulations.— The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected with the small concave articular surfaces of the first phalanges by two lateral ligaments, an inferior ligament, which is developed into a thick fibrous or sesamoid plate, and a synovial membrane,—all being closely similar to the corresponding parts of the hand. In the first metatarso-phalangeal articulation the sesamoid plate is divided into two parts, which are fully ossified, forming the sesamoid bones. These are held together by strong transverse ligamentous fibres, and being provided with cartilaginous surfaces, move upon the corresponding grooved cartilaginous surfaces of the head of the first metatarsal bone. The articulations of the phalanges with one another are also con- structed on the same plan as those of the superior extremity. In eachARTICULATIONS OF THE FOOT. 1S5 the bones are held in contact bj two lateral ligaments and an inferior ligament or fibrous plate; and each of the cavities is lined by a synovial membrane. Movements.—In the mechanism of the foot three arches are distinguishable, two of them longitudinal and one transverse; all of them capable of being flattened somewhat by pressure from above, thus securing elasticity. The inner arch is formed by the os calcis, astragalus, navicular, and three cuneiform bones together with the three inner toes, the astragalus being the key-stone, and is supported especially by the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament. The outer arch is formed by the os calcis, cuboid bone, and two outer toes, and is supported by the strong inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Thus the calcaneo-navicular and calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are stretched by the whole weight of the body bearing down upon the arch, and prevent the too great flattening of the instep; an action in which they are assisted, however, by the plantar aponeurosis. The transverse arching of the foot is most marked in the line of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and is maintained by the wedge-shape of the bones and by the plantar ligaments. The weight of the body, falling upon the balls of the toes when the heel is raised, tends to spread out the metatarsal bones at their distal extremities, and to flatten the transverse arch, which recovers its position when the pressure is removed. Between the astragalus and the calcaneum only one kind of motion is possible, the centre of which is in the interosseous astragalo-calcaneal ligament, and is of such a nature, that when the posterior articular surface of the os calcis glides forwards and downwards beneath the astragalus, the sustentaculum tali moves backwards and upwards, and the cuboid extremity of the bone is carried slightly inwards. The navicular and cuboid bones can be moved downwards and inwards, or up- wards and outwards, over the fore part of the astragalus and calcaneum re- spectively. It is in these articulations mainly that the movements known as inversion and eversion have their seat. In inversion the fore part of the foot is depressed and carried inwards, the longitudinal arches are increased, and the outer margin of the foot descends more than the inner, so that the sole is turned to some extent inwards. In eversion these actions are reversed, and the foot resumes its normal position. The movement is assisted by a small amount of gliding between the anterior tarsal bones, and between these and the metatarsal bones. Inversion of the foot is always associated with extension, and eversion with flexion of the ankle-joint. The first, and, to a less degree, the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones are capable of a limited amount of movement by which they are carried downwards and towards the middle line of the foot, so that the transverse arch is increased and the fore part of the foot rendered somewhat narrower. The movements of the metatarso-phalangeal and interphalangeal articulations are similar to those of the corresponding joints of the fingers, but are more restricted in their extent.MYOLOGY - < ■■ THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. Under this section will be brought the description of the Voluntary Muscles, and along with it that of the Fasciae and Aponeuroses by which they are invested. The voluntary muscles are for the most part placed in close relation with the endoskeleton, being attached to the bones or other hard parts, and moving these in different directions by their contractions. There are, however, some muscles which may be looked upon as belonging to the cutaneous system, or exoskeleton, and there are a few others which are connected with the viscera at the places where these reach the surface of the body. The muscles are all symmetrical, and, with the exception of the sphincters and one or two others, are in pairs. The number of voluntary muscles to which distinct names have been given in the systems of Albinus and Soemmering, which are mainly fol- lowed in this work, amounts to about 240, there being some variation above or below that number according as certain muscular parts are re- garded as separate and independent muscles or only as portions of others. They naturally fall under the following four great divisions, and in the numerical proportions stated under each, viz. :—* A. In the axial part of the body. 1. The muscles of the head and neck = 75. 2. The muscles of the vertebral column and trunk = 51. B. In the limbs. 3. The muscles of the upper limb = 58. 4. The muscles of the lower limb = 54. In the detailed description of the muscles, however, while the fore- going general divisions will be followed, it may be expedient occasionally to deviate from the strictly systematic arrangement, in so far as may conduce to facility in study and convenience in dissection. Each muscle constitutes a separate organ, composed chiefly of a mass of the contractile fibrous tissue which is called muscular, and of other tissues and parts which may be regarded as accessory. Thus the mus- cular fibres are connected together in bundles or fasciculi (see General Anatomy), and these fasciculi are again embedded in and united to- gether by a quantity of connective tissue, forming the perimysium, and the whole muscle is usually enclosed in an external sheath of the same material. Many of the muscles are connected at their more or less tapering extremities with tendons by which they are attached to theTHE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. 187 bones or hard parts; and tendinous bands frequently run to a consider- able length either on the surface of a muscle or between its fibres. There is indeed great variety in the relation of the muscular and tendinous portions, but few muscles are entirely destitute of some tendinous element in their composition. Farther, blood-vessels are largely distributed in the substance of a muscle, carrying the materials necessary for its nourishment and chemico-vital changes, and there are also lymphatic vessels, at least in the perimysium and the tendons. Nerves ramify through every muscle, and by means of these the muscular contractions are called forth and a low degree of sensibility is conferred upon the muscular substance. The muscles vary much in their individual forms. Some are broad and thin, others are more or less elongated straps, and others are cylin- drical or fusiform masses of various thickness; hence some of the various names applied to them, such as long and short, square, round, rhomboid, &c. Not unfrequently two or more muscular parts run into one, as in the bicipital, tricipital, or quadricipital forms. In other instances muscles, beginning as single masses, become divided at their remote ends into two or more muscular or tendinous slips. A division of a muscle in its length into two parts by an intermediate tendon gives the form called digastric or biventral, and there are some muscles in which a greater number of parts arc thus separated by what have been called tendinous inscriptions. In the description of the muscles it is customary to state the attach- ments of their opposite ends under the names of origin and insertion; the first term being usually applied to the more fixed, or in the case of the limbs the proximal extremity, and the second to the more moveable or remote attachment; but it is to be observed, that it is often difficult to lay down a rule for the correct use of these terms, and that in the great majority of instances it is of importance to consider the action of a muscle as it may affect the motions of the parts attached not to one only but to both of its extremities. The study of the actions of the muscles either singly or in groups, though strictly a physiological subject, cannot be separated from their anatomical description. With respect to this the following general principles ought to be kept in view. 1st. That the force exerted by any muscle during its contraction is in proportion to the number of muscu- lar elements or fibres composing the muscle. 2nd. That the extent of motion, in so far as it merely depends on the shortening of the fibres of the muscle, is in proportion to the length of the fibres. And 3rd. That the direction of the force produced by a contracting muscle is in the line of the axis of the whole muscle if it run straight between its opposite points of attachment, but in the fine of the portion attached to the moving part if the muscle or its tendon be bent in its course. In most instances of such deflection from the straight course the muscles or their tendons run in loops or in grooves somewhat after the manner of a pulley. The loops are either fibrous or fibro-cartilaginous. In the pulley-like dis- position of tendons running over bones, there are frequently fibrous or cartilaginous or bony nodules developed at the place of angular bending of the tendons. The name sesamoid, originally given to the small bones developed in some of the digital tendons, has been applied generally to all similar intratendinous structures. It is further to be observed that the direction in which the muscular188 THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. fibres or fasciculi run in a muscle is very frequently not that of the axis of the muscle, nor do the muscular fasciculi in the great majority of in- stances extend from end to end in a muscle. On the contrary, the mus- cular fibres and fasciculi are much oftener comparatively short, and are attached within the length of the muscle to prolongations of the main tendons or to other tendinous bands which intersect its substance; and thus the muscular fibres rim into these tendinous parts with various degrees of obliquity to the axis of the muscle. The muscular flesh forms a large proportion of the weight of the whole body. This proportion has been carefully determined by Dr. G. v. Liebig (Archiv fiir Anat. u. Physiol. 1874), from whose tables the fol- lowing is calculated for a man of 150 lbs. weight: skeleton, 27 lbs.; muscles, 63 lbs.; viscera (with skin, fat, blood, &c.), 60 lbs. General Morphology-—It cannot be doubted that the disposition of the muscles, as a whole and in groups, originally bears a close relation to the plan of vertebrate organization in the skeleton. This is very perceptible in the earlier stages of fcetal development and in the lowest vertebrate animals. In fishes especially, and partly in amphibia, the muscles present a remarkable degree of vertebrate segmentation, the greater part of the muscles of the trunk being subdivided into zones, or myotomcs, by partitions or sclerotomes, partly bony and partly cartilaginous or membranous, which extend transversely through the walls of the trunk, and which correspond in number and position with the vertebral and costal segments. In the higher animals and in man, together with the greater specialization of muscles in connection with the development of limbs, great deviations from the primitive muscular type in the trunk have occurred, and it becomes extremely difficult to trace the morphological relations of the rest of the muscles in the axial part of the body. It is indeed only in the deeper muscles of the vertebral column and of the ribs that the vertebrate subdivision and relation remain in any degree apparent. In the more superficial muscles, and more especially in the muscles of the limbs, where the direction of the fibres is generally outwards from the trunk, portions of the myotomes run together so as to form muscles of greater or less length, in which all appearance of vertebrate division is effaced. In their more general relations also to the trunk of the body two sets of the muscles may be distinguished as epaxial and hypaxial (episkeletal and hyposkeletal of Huxley), according as they lie above or below the embryonic vertebral axis and the plane of its lateral extension. The hypaxial muscles, comparatively little developed in man, comprise chiefly the prevertebral muscles of the neck with the psoas and pyriformis. Of the epaxial muscles a dorso- lateral division consists mainly of the long and short erector muscles of the spine and head; while a ventro-lateral division consists both of such ventral longitudinal muscles as the genio-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and recti abdominis, and of the lateral, obliquely directed, stemo-mastoid, scalene, intercostal, and abdominal muscles. The muscles of the limbs are also primarily derived from this great ventro-lateral muscle. They may be distinguished as extrinsic when attached partly to the limbs and partly to the trunk, and as intrinsic when wholly attached to the bones of the limbs and their arches. To these morphological relations farther reference will hereafter be made under the several large divisions of the muscles. (See Humphry, “ Observations in Myology,” &c., 1872, and in various papers in the Journ. of Anat.; Huxley, “ Anat. of Verteb. Animals,” and Mivart, “ Lessons in Elementary Anatomy.” Homologies and Varieties.—It follows from what has been stated above, that homologous correspondence can be traced between the individual muscles and groups of muscles of man and those of animals. But as the form and attach- ments of the muscles are subject to very great variation in different animals, as well as to occasional varieties in the same species, the determination of the special homologies is attended in many cases with great difficulty, and is still very imperfect. Many varieties have also been observed in the human body, and it is interesting to notice that these varieties are found to reappear generally in theTHE FASCIiE IN GENERAL. 189 same form, or in modifications of it which indicate relations to a typical or fundamental structure ; and that many of them are thus more or less repetitions of forms known to exist in different species of the lower animals. (Consult John Wood in Proceedings of Roy. Soc. 1864-8, and Turner and others in Journ. of An at. & Physiol.; Macalister’s Catalogue of Muscular Anomalies, in Trans. Roy. Irish Acad., 1872, and other papers ; Hallet, in Edin. Med. Journ., 1845 ; Wenzel Gruber, in Mem. of the Petersburg Acad. ; Henle’s Handbuch, Muskellekre, 2nd Ed., 1S71; Krause, Handbuch, 3rd Ed. vol. iii. 1S80.) FASCI2E. The term Fascia is applied to parts presen tine' a membranous dispo- sition of reticulated or felted fibrous tissue. These structures have usually been distinguished as the superficial and the deep; the former consisting of looser and finer material, and passing by then' slenderer kinds into the looser varieties of connective tissue; while the latter, denser in character, frequently exhibit more or less regular arrangements of strong white fibres, giving them a shining appearance, and are often termed aponeuroses. Superficial Fascia.—Under this name, or as subcutaneous fascia, is described the layer of loose tissue of varying density, which is placed immediately below the skin, all over the body. It is the web which contains the subcutaneous fat, the panniculus adiposus, and in some regions superficial muscles, which constitute the panniculus carnosus. From the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids, however, as well as from that of the penis and scrotum, adipose matter is entirely absent. Beneath the fatty layer of the superficial fascia, which is immediately subcutaneous, there is generally another layer of the same structure, comparatively devoid of adipose tissue, in which the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found. When the subcutaneous fat becomes absorbed, the stroma in which it was deposited is still left, and its meshes approach one another, so that in lean subjects a more fibrous condition of the superficial fascia is found than in others. Deep Fasciae and Aponeuroses.—Under the name of deep fascia is comprehended that stronger layer of fibrous or connective tissue which, lying close to the muscles, invests them, or dips between them, and forms a nearly continuous covering of the body beneath the superficial fascia. It is chiefly to the stronger parts of this fascia that the name of aponeuroses has been given. Those covering the muscles have been named aponeuroses of investment (Bichat), to distinguish them from proper tendinous expansions, or aponeuroses of insertion, of muscles. This distinction, however, is far from being universally applicable : apo- neuroses of insertion are often continued into aponeuroses of investment, as in the instance of the gluteus maximus, or into softer fascia, as at the lateral parts of the occipito-ffontal aponeurosis. The principal apo- neuroses of investment are those which incase the muscles of the limbs, binding them down in a common sheath, and connected in various places either directly or by septa with the bones. Parts of the deep fasciae in the vicinity of the larger joints as at the wrist and ankle, become strengthened into tight transverse bands which serve to hold the tendons close to the bones, and hence receive the name of retinacula or annular ligaments. Synovial Sacs and Sheaths: Bursse Mucosae.—In various situ- ations where the tendons of muscles pass over the prominences ofMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 190 bones, or run in fibrous sheaths, synovial cavities exist, either of a vesicular or tubular form, thus forming the synovial bursa or sheaths. In many such instances a true synovial membrane appears to cover the adjacent surfaces, and diminishes their friction in moving on each other. In other places less defined spaces exist in the connective tissue between parts of the tendons or fasciae, and occasionally between parts of the skin and the harder or more prominent structures on which they lie. In some of these subcutaneous bursae a distinct synovial membrane cannot be found ; and there are probably gradations of transition between these bursal spaces and those which are lined by synovial mem- brane. Some of the synovial sacs and sheaths of tendons in the vicinity of joints communicate freely with the articular cavities. (See Gen. Anat., vol. ii.) I.—MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE UPPER LIMB. A certain number of muscles situated superficially on the trunk pass to the bones of the shoulder and humerus, so as to attach the upper limb to the body. These muscles, from their position, form a division of the muscles of the trunk, but considered with reference to their desti- nation and action they may be held as belonging to the upper limb, and will therefore be so described in the present section. The muscles referred to are, posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, the rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapulas ; and, anteriorly, the two pectoral muscles, the subclavius, and the serratus magnus. Along with these might also be included the clavicular part of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle and the omo-hyoid; but as these last have important relations with parts situated in the neck, they are more conveniently described among the muscles of that region. BETWEEN THE TRUNK AND THE UPPER LIMB POSTERIORLY. Fascia:.—The superficial fascia covering the muscles which pass from the trunk to the shoulder and upper limb posteriorly forms a layer of considerable strength with embedded fat lying beneath the skin: it is continuous with that of the neck above, that of the axilla and breast in front, and that of the abdomen and hips below. The deep fascia of the back forms a dense fibrous layer closely investing the superficial muscles to which it furnishes sheaths : at the outer margins of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles it is continuous with the deep fasciae of the neck, axilla, breast, and abdomen, and turns round beneath the edges of the muscles so as to complete their sheaths and separate them from the subjacent layer of muscles. It is attached to the skeleton along the line of the spines of the vertebrae, to the occipital bone, the spine of the scapula, and the crest of the ilium. In the loins there is a strong, flat, shining tendinous structure called the lumbar aponeurosis, to which the latissimus dorsi and other muscles are attached posteriorly ; but this will be most conveniently described along with the muscles of the back. Muscles.—The trapezius muscle (cucullaris) arises by a thin apo- neurosis from the piotuberance of the occipital bone, and the inner third of its superior curved line, from the ligamentum nuchte, and from theTRAPEZIUS.—LATISSIMUS DORSI. 191 spines of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebrae, as well as from the supraspinous ligament. From this extended line of origin the fibres converge to their insertion : the superior fibres, descending and turning forwards in the neck, are inserted into the outer third of the clavicle at its posterior border; the succeeding fibres pass transversely to the inner border of the acromion process and upper border of the spine of the scapula, while the inferior fibres, ascending obliquely, terminate in a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the base of the spine of the scapula, and is inserted into the rough mark near the root of the spine. The greater part of the line of origin presents only a small admixture of tendinous fibres, but opposite the seventh cervical spine, and for the distance of several vertebrae above and below that point, a flat tendon extends outwards, widest at the middle of the space and narrowing towards the upper and lower ends, so that the apo- neuroses of the two muscles taken together have an elliptical form. The fibres of origin from the occipital bone have little or no tendinous lustre. The muscles of the two sides have together the form of a four- sided figure, or shawl or cowl, pointing downwards : hence the name of cucullaris which has been given to it. Relations.—The trapezius is superficial in its whole extent: it covers the splenius, the greater part of the complexus appearing above the splenius, the levator anguli scapulae, the rhomboidei, the supraspinatus, and small portions of the infraspinatus and latissimus dorsi. The spinal accessory nerve and the superficial cervical artery pass into it on its deep surface. Varieties.—The trapezius is subject to considerable variations in its attach- ments : it is not unfrequently shorter than above described, and the number of dorsal vertebrae with which it is connected is sometimes diminished to six or even fewer. Its occipital attachment may be wanting ; and occasionally a separation exists between its cervical and dorsal portions. The insertion into the clavicle is sometimes continued forwards to meet the stemo-mastoid muscle. The latissimus dorsi muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the lower six or seven dorsal vertebra, and from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, through the medium of which it is attached to the lumbar and sacral spines and back part of the iliac crest; it also arises by short tendinous fibres for an inch or more from the iliac crest in front of the outer margin of the lumbar apo- neurosis, and from the last three or four ribs by narrow fleshy slips which interdigitate with the attachments of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres at the upper part are the shortest, and pass almost horizontally outwards over the lower angle of the scapula, from which they generally receive a small slip of fleshy fibres ; those lower down become longer and pass more obliquely upwards; finally, those which are attached to the ribs ascend almost vertically. By this convergence the fibres of the muscle come to form a narrow band of some thickness, which, accompanying the teres major towards the axilla, winds round the lower and outer border of that muscle so as finally to be placed in front of it. It terminates in a flat tendon of less than an inch and a half in breadth, which is adherent at its lower border to that of the teres major, but is again detached from it previous to its in- sertion, a synovial bursa intervening between them. The tendon is attached to the floor of the bicipital groove of the humerus, a little higher than the insertion of the teres major. From this twisting of the muscle uponFig. 155. MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 192193 LATISSIMUS DORSI.—EHOMBOIDEI. Fig. 155.—Superficial muscles of the trunk, shoulder and hip, viewed from BEHIND. (A. T.) £ a, external occipital protuberance ; b, acromion; c, crest of the ilium ; 1, trapezius; 1', oval tendon of the two muscles in the upper dorsal and lower cervical region ; 1", triangular tendon of insertion ; 2, latissimus dorsi; 2', 2/ its costal origins and its origin from the crest of the ilium ; 1, 2', c, tendon of latissimus dorsi blended with the pos- terior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis ; 3, sterno-mastoid ; 4, deltoid ; 5, infraspinatus ; 6, teres minor ; 7, teres major ; 8, rhomboideus major; below this on the left side is seen a triangular space bounded by the rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi muscles, in which parts of the sixth and seventh ribs are exposed ; 9, back part of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; between 9 and 2', a small part of the internal oblique ; 10, part of the gluteus medius covered by the fascia lata; 11, gluteus maximus; 12, gracilis ; 13, small part of the adductor magnus; 14, semitendinosus ; 15, biceps ; 16, fascia lata covering the vastus externus. itself, the anterior surface of the tendon is continuous with the posterior surface of the rest of the muscle. Relations.—The latissimus dorsi is subcutaneous, except at its origin from the dorsal vertebrae, where it is covered by the trapezius, and at its insertion, where it is crossed by the axillary vessels and the nerves of the brachial plexus. It rests on part of the rhomboideus major and infraspinatus, on the teres major, serratus posticus inferior, vertebral aponeurosis, external intercostal muscles, and the posterior borders of the external and internal oblique muscles. Between the adjacent borders of the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and rhom- boideus major, there is left, when the scapula is drawn forwards, a triangular area in which a portion of one or two ribs and of an intercostal space becomes superficial; this is taken advantage of for the purpose of auscultation. Varieties.—The number of dorsal vertebrae to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from four to seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also inconstant, being frequently diminished and more rarely in- creased. Muscular bands (axillary arches') are sometimes seen to pass from this muscle near its insertion across the great vessels and nerves to the fore part of the axilla, where they terminate variously, in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-brachialis muscle, the biceps, or in the fascia. From the lower border of the tendon a muscular slip is occasionally given downwards to the long head of the triceps, to the fascia, or to the internal intermuscular septum of the arm, cor- responding to the dorso-ejpitrochlearis muscle of apes and many other mammals. The rhomboideus minor, a comparatively narrow muscle, arises from the spinous processes of the seventh cervical and first dorsal vertebrae and from the ligamentum nuchae. It inclines downwards and outwards, and is inserted into the base of the scapula opposite the triangular sur- face at the commencement of the spine. The rhomboideus major, much broader than the preceding muscle, lies immediately below and in contact with it. It arises from the spinous processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebra; and the supraspinous ligament, and is inserted into that part of the base of the scapula which is included between the spine and inferior angle. A considerable part of the attachment at the insertion is only by firm connective tissue, and the greater portion of the fibres, instead of being fixed directly to the bone, end in a tendon which is connected to the scapula near the lower angle ; in consequence of this arrangement, the muscle may in part be separated from the bone without division of its muscular or tendinous fibres, and must therefore act most immediately on the lower angle. Relations.—The greater part of the rhomboidei muscles is covered by the trapezius, a small angular portion only of the rhomboideus major being sub* VOL. I. OMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 194 Fig. 156. Fig. 156.—Superficial view of THE MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK, shoulder and hip. (After Bour- gery.) (A. T.) } o, external occipital protuber- ance ; C, transverse process of the atlas ; D, first dorsal vertebra ; L, first lumbar vertebra; S, first piece of the sacrum ; Co, first piece of the coccyx ; a, acromion ; b, base of the scapula ; i, crest of the ilium ; 1, sterno-mastoid muscle ; 2, splenius, levator anguli scapulae, and other deep muscles ; 3, 3, upper and lower ends of the line of origin of the trapezius muscle ; 3', triangular tendon attached to the inner end of the spine of the scapula ; +, half of the oval ten- don belonging to the two trapezius muscles in the lower cervical and upper dorsal region; 4, 4, latissi- mus dorsi; 4', 4", line along which the latissimus dorsi takes origin from the lumbar fascia ; 5, infra- spinatus ; 6, teres minor ; 7, teres major; 8, deltoid ; 9, external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; 10, gluteus medius, covered by the fascia lata; 11, 11, line of origin of the gluteus maximus from the posterior part of ilium to the coccyx ; 11', its insertion into the fascia lata over the great trochanter ; 11", a part of its in- sertion into the femur; 12, biceps ; 13, semitendinosus ; 14, adductor magnus ; 15, gracilis. cutaneous in the interval be- tween the trapezius and latis- simus dorsi ; the extent of this portion varies with the position of the scapula, being increased when the arm is raised from the side. The rhomboidei cover the greater part of the serratus pos- ticus superior, and the posterior scapular artery descends on their deep surface. Varieties. — Both rhomboid muscles are liable to variations in the extent of their vertebral and scapular attachments. An additional muscle has been ob- served running close and parallel to the upper border of the minor, from the scapula to the occipital bone, and has been called rhomboideus occipitalis after a similar muscle occurring in some animals.195 Fig. 157. LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULJE. Fig. 157.—Deeper view of the The levator anguli scapulae arises by slightly tendinous slips from the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or live The trapezius, latissimus dorsi, •deltoid, gluteus maximus and ex- ternal oblique muscles have been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenius capitis ; 1', lower end of splenius colli; 2, complexus near its insertion; 3, levator anguli scapulae ; 4, rhomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus superior ; 5, rhomboideus major ; 6, part of the longissimus dorsi; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the ilio-costalis ; 7, part of the spinalis dorsi; 8, upper, and 8', lower part of the serratus posticus inferior ; 9, internal ob- lique muscle ; 10, supraspinatus ; 11, infraspinatus; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor; 13, teres major; 14, serratus magnus ; 15, gluteus medius ; 16, pyriformis ; 17, portion of the obturator in- terims ; + and +, superior and in- ferior gemelli; 17', the intrapelvic portion of the obturator internus ; 18, tendon of the obturator externus passing to its insertion ; 19, quad- ratus femoris ; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. upper cervical vertebras, be- tween the attachments of the splenius and scaleni muscles, and forms an elongated fleshy mass which is inserted into the base of the scapula from the spine to the superior angle. Varieties. — The number of vertebral attachments of the levator anguli scapulae is sub- ject to frequent variations. A slip has been observed to extend to it from the occipital or from the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone. It often appears as a divided muscle, the parts connected with the several ver- tebrae remaining separate, even to the place of insertion. It is occasionally connected by slips with the trapezius scalene, or serrated muscles. In quadrupeds it is united with the serratus o 2 MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK, shoulder and hip. (After Bour- gery.) (A.T.) JMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMP. 196 magnus, so as to form a single muscle. Appearing as a detached bundle of the levator anguli scapulas there is sometimes a muscular slip passing from the transverse processes of one or two upper cervical vertebrae to the outer end of the clavicle, and representing the levator claviculcB muscle of the lower animals. Nerves of the preceding muscles.-—The trapezius muscle receives its nerves from the spinal accessory which enters it on the deep surface, after being joined by branches from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and from these nerves directly. The latissimus dorsi is supplied by the long subscapular nerve of the brachial plexus. The nerves of the rhomboid muscles proceed in one or some- times two branches from the fifth cervical, and the levator scapulae is supplied from the third, the fourth, and sometimes also from the fifth cervical nerves. BETWEEN THE TRUNK AND THE UPPER LIMB ANTERIORLY. Fasciae.—The superficial fascia of the pectoral region encloses the mammary gland, covering- it both in front and behind, and sending strong septa in between its lobes. Processes likewise extend forwards from the fascial investment of the gland, between the masses of fat, to the skin and nipple, thus affording support to the gland. The deep fascia of the pectoral region is for the most part thin and unimportant. Covering the pectoralis major it is attached superiorly to the clavicle and internally to the front of the sternum, while externally and below it becomes continuous with the fascia of the shoulder, of the axilla, and of the side of the chest. As a development of the deep fascia there may be specially noticed the costo-coracoid membrane, which is a strong fibrous structure, placed behind the pectoralis major, and attached superiorly to the clavicle in two layers which ensheath the subclavius muscle, and of which the posterior is blended with the front of the sheath of the axillary vessels, derived from the deep fascia of the neck. The strong lower margin of the membrane, distinguished sometimes as the costo-coracoid ligament, extends from the coracoid process to the first rib at the origin of the subclavius muscle. From this membrane a thin lamina is prolonged downwards to the pectoralis minor, which it invests ; and being continued beyond that muscle, it stretches across as a firm membrane between the pectoralis minor and the short head of the biceps, and ends below by joining the axillary fascia near the lower border of the pectoralis major. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane stretched across the axilla, and so disposed as to maintain the skin in position over that hollow. Commencing at the lower border of the pectoralis major, where it is continuous with the fascia covering that muscle, it is joined by the layer descending from the pectoralis minor, and is by this means drawn upwards into the intermuscular hollow ; thus strengthened it slopes outwards and backwards to the posterior fold of the axilla, where it is continued into the sheaths of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. In the deepest part of the axilla the fascia is perforated by numerous lymphatic vessels. At the outer side, occupied by the large vessels and nerves of the limb, it is continuous with the sheath of the vessels and with the aponeurosis of the arm. The density of this fascia offers a considerable obstacle to the progress of axillary abscesses to the surface. Muscles.—The pectoralis major muscle consists of two portions, clavicular and sterno-costal, which are separated at their origin by a slight interval opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation, but are united ex- ternally at the insertion of the muscle. The clavicular portion arises from an impression occupying the inner half of the anterior surface of197 THE PECTORAL MUSCLES. the clavicle ; the sternocostal portion from the anterior surface of the sternum, from the cartilages of the upper six ribs and from the aponeu- rosis of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The -fibres of the two portions converge, and form a thick mass which is inserted by a tendon of considerable breadth into the pectoral ridge of the humerus. The tendon of insertion is composed of two layers, which are only united for a limited extent along their lower margins. The anterior layer is formed by the upper sterno-costal fibres, and is also joined on its front surface by the descending clavicular portion of the muscle, the latter being prolonged downwards beyond the level of the sterno-costal fibres and becoming closely united with the tendon of the deltoid. The posterior layer of the tendon is formed by the lower sterno-costal fibres, which turn backwards successively behind the upper part; this layer of the tendon reaches higher on the humerus than the anterior, and from its upper border an expansion is given off, covering the long head of the biceps muscle, to the great tuberosity of the humerus and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. From the lower border of the tendon also a slip is prolonged to the fascia of the arm. Relations.—The folded inferior border of the pectoralis major forms the an- terior margin of the axilla ; the superior runs parallel with that of the deltoid muscle, from which it is separated only by a slight interval which becomes wider towards the clavicle, and in which run the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. The anterior surface is subcutaneous in the greater part of its extent, being covered only by some of the fibres of the platysma myoides and by the mamma. The posterior surface rests chiefly on the pec- toralis minor, and with that muscle forms the anterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.—The more frequent varieties of this muscle consist in the greater or less extent of its attachments to the ribs or sternum, and the greater or less separation of its clavicular and sterno-costal parts. The clavicular part has occa- sionally been observed to be absent, or to be incorporated completely with the deltoid. The tendinous and fleshy fibres of origin of opposite sides sometimes meet and even decussate in front of the sternum. In some instances additional muscular slips take origin from the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, and in others considerable deficiency, or even absence, of the sterno-costal portion of the muscle has been observed. Sometimes also slips connect the great pectoral with the biceps muscle. The slips of connection with the latissimus dorsi have already been noticed. Cliondro-epitroclilcaris.—This name has been given to a muscular slip which is occasionally seen, springing from one or two rib-cartilages, or from the aponeurosis of the external oblique, below the pectoralis major, or sometimes given off from the lower border or from the tendon of the muscle itself, and passing to a variable insertion on the inner side of the arm, to the fascia, to the intermuscular septum, or even to the internal condyle of the humerus. The sternalis muscle is a fasciculus not unfrequently present on one or both sides, fleshy in the middle and tendinous at both ends, lying on the surface of the pec- toralis major, parallel to the margin of the sternum. It springs below, variably, from the sheath of the rectus and the fifth and sixth costal cartilages, and ter- minates above in the sterno-mastoid, or sternum and upper rib-cartilages, or more rarely in the pectoralis major. When two are present, they frequently unite in front of the manubrium. The pectoralis minor muscle arises from the upper margins and slightly from the external surfaces of three ribs near their cartilages— usually the third, fourth, and fifth—by tendinous slips which are blended with the anterior intercostal aponeuroses. Its fibres converge to a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the anterior half of the innerMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 198 Fig. 158. Fig. 158.—Superficial view of the muscles of the trunk, from before. (A. T.) % 1, stemo-mastoid of the left side ; 1', 1', platysma myoides of the right side ; 2, sterno- hyoid ; 3, anterior, 3', posterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; 4, levator anguli scapulae ; 4, 4 ,199 PECTORALIS MINOR. scalene muscles ; 5, anterior part of trapezius ; 6, deltoid ; 7, upper part of triceps in the left arm ; 8, teres minor ; 9, teres major ; 10, latissimus dorsi; 11, pectoralis major; 11', on the right side, its clavicular portion ; 12, part of pectoralis minor ; 13, serratus magnus ; 14, external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; 15, placed on the ensiform process at the upper end of the linea alba; 15', umbilicus ; 16, is placed over the symphysis pubis; at the lower end of the linea alba, above 16, the pyramidal muscles are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 14 to 17, linea semilunaris at the outer border of the rectus muscle, the transverse tendinous lines of which are seen through the abdominal aponeurosis ; 18, part of the gluteus medius ; 19, tensor vaginas femoris ; 20, rectus femoris; 21, sartorius ; 22, femoral part of the ilio-psoas; 23, pectineus ; 24, adductor longus ; 25, gracilis. On each side of 16, the external abdominal ring is indicated. Fig. 159.—View of some of THE DEEPER MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER AND TRUNK, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | On the right side the pector- alis major and external oblique muscles have been removed, a, coracoid process ; 6, manubrium ; c, c, cartilages of the fifth ribs ; cl, ensiform process; 1, levator anguji scapulae muscle ; 2, on the middle of the clavicle, points to the subclavius muscle ; 3, pec- toralis minor ; 4, subscapularis ; 4', its insertion into the small tuberosity of the humerus ; 5, coraco-brachialis cut short; 6, coracoid, and 6', glenoid head of the biceps brachii, both cut short; 7, on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, points by a line to the tendon of the teres major, both cut short and passing to their in- sertion inside the bicipital groove ; 8, folded tendon of the pectoralis major ; 9, insertion of the del- toid; 10, brachialis anticus, em- bracing the insertion of the del- toid; 11, part of the inner head of the triceps, the middle head of which is seen passing behind the Fig. 159. tendons of the latissimus and teres ; 12, 12, on the fifth and eighth ribs, point to the origin of the serratus magnus ; 13, 13', recti abdominis. border and upper surface of the coracoid process, in contact with the conjoined origin of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the pectoralis major, and forms a part of the anterior wall of the axilla. It crosses the axillary artery and brachial plexus of nerves. When the arm is much raised a portion of the muscle may be seen projecting beyond the lower margin of the pectoralis major. Varieties.—The pectoralis minor is sometimes found split up or subdivided into as many pieces as it has costal attachments. The place and number of the costal slips are subject to slight variation. The tendon of insertion is not unfrequently detached in part or wholly from the coracoid process, and continued over that to the capsule of the shoulder and the great tuberosity of the humerus. The subclavius muscle arises by a short thick tendon from the first costal arch at the junction of the rib and cartilage, close to the costo-MUSCLES OF TILE UPPER LIMB. 200 clavicular ligament. From this tendon its fibres pass outwards and upwards, forming a prismatic belly, which is inserted into the groove on the under surface of the clavicle, extending as far as the recess between the conoid and trapezoid parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. Relations.—The subclavius is encased by the costo-coracoid membrane, and is placed immediately over the great vessels and nerves entering the limb. Varieties.—The subclavius is sometimes found to be without any attachment to the clavicle, being inserted into the root of the coracoid process ; or it may have a double insertion, the upper into the clavicle, the lower into the coracoid process. A part of this muscle, or occasionally an independent fasciculus, may be inserted into the upper border of the scapula, constituting the sterno-scajmlar muscle of Wood. The serratus magnus muscle, placed upon the upper and lateral part of the thorax, between the ribs and the scapula, arises anteriorly from the first eight or sometimes nine ribs by as many fleshy slips or digitations ; each digitation being attached to the fore part of the outer surface of the corresponding rib, with the exception of the first, which is attached to two ribs. Posteriorly, the muscle, considerably narrowed, is inserted into the line in front of the base of the scapula, and at the upper and lower angles of the bone into the flat surfaces which are excluded from the fossa of the subscapular muscle. The fibres are arranged in three sets, thus :—a, those of the first digitation, springing from the first and second ribs and an intervening aponeurotic arch, form a thick bundle which terminates on the flat area in front of the upper angle of the scapula ; b, those of the second and third digitations, from the second and third ribs, but especially the first of these, spread out into a triangular layer, the thinnest part of the muscle, and are attached along the line in front of the base of the scapula, extending from the place of insertion of the preceding part nearly to the lower angle of the bone ; c, the remaining five or six digitations converge in the form of a fan, and terminate posteriorly in a thick mass, which is attached to the flat surface in front of the lower angle of the scapula. Relations.—By its deep surface, the serratus magnus rests on the upper ribs, the intercostal muscles, and part of the serratus posticus superior. Its outer surface is in contact posteriorly with the subscapular and latissimus dorsi muscles, and forms anteriorly the internal wall of the axilla, being subcutaneous in the lower part of its extent. Varieties.—Not unfrequently the muscle receives a slip also from the tenth rib : on the other hand, the highest digitation often has no attachment to the first rib ; or one or more of the lower digitations may be absent, so that the muscle does not pass lower than the seventh rib. The muscle has been observed divided into three parts : sometimes the middle part is absent; and in various instances the serratus has been observed united partially with the levator scapulae, the external intercostals, or the external oblique. With the levator scapulae it forms one muscle in many mammals. Nerves.—The nerves which supply the anterior muscles passing from the trunk to the upper limb are all derived from parts of the brachial plexus. The nerve of the subclavius is a small twig from the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The large nerve of the serratus magnus, called posterior thoracic, proceeds from the fifth and sixth, sometimes also the seventh nerves, and pierces the middle scalene muscle. The nerves of the pectoral muscles, named anterior thoracic, are two in number, internal and external, proceeding respectively from the inner and outer cords of the plexus, the outer supplying the great pectoral muscle, the inner both it and the lesser pectoral.SERRATUS MAGNUS. 201 Actions of the muscles passing' between the Trunk and Upper Limb. Considered with reference to the movements of the limb upon the trunk, the upper part of the trapezius, the levator scapulae and the rhomboid muscles are elevators of the shoulder; the lower part of the trapezius, the pectoralis minor, and the subclavius are depressors; the serratus magnus as a whole carries forwards the scapula, and the rhomboidei draw it back ; the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis major depress the humerus and carry it towards the middle line, behind or in front, according as the one or other muscle is in action. Fig. 160.—Lateral view op Fig. 160. THE TRUNK, SHOWING THE SERRATUS MAGNUS MUSCLE. (A. T.) i a, coracoid process of the scapula ; b, glenoid cavity ; c, lower angle ; I, VI, XII, the first, sixth, and twelfth ribs ; 1, upper portion of the serratus magnus attached to the first and second ribs ; 2, 2, second or middle por- tion attached to the second and third ribs ; 3, lower or fanshaped portion attached to the ribs from the fourth to the ninth ; 4, external intercostal muscle ; 5, costal origins of the transversalis abdominis. More particularly, the superior fibres of the tra- pezius elevate the clavicle ; the middle fibres acting on the acromion have also some elevating action, but tend rather to carry back the scapula towards the spine ; the inferior part of the muscle acting upon the spine of the scapula would of itself depress that bone while it carries it inwards towards the dorsal spines, but acting in concert with the upper two-thirds of the muscle, a rotation is produced in the scapula round a central point, in such a manner that while the whole bone, and more especially the acromion, is raised and carried towards the dorsal spines, the upper angle of the scapula is somewhat depressed and carried inwards, while the lower angle is carried outwards and elevated. The levator anguli scapula; and rhomboidei elevate the superior angle and base of the scapula, thus counteracting the rotating action of the trapezius. In this manner, when the trapezius, levator, and rhomboid muscles act together, the scapula is raised without rotation, and its base is carried at the same time in- wards, towards the dorsal spines. The subclavius depresses the clavicle, and may also act as a support to the sterno-clavicular articulation. The pectoralis minor draws the coracoid process downwards and forwards, and tends to throw the lower angle of the scapula backwards. The serratus magnus muscle, by withdrawing the base of the scapula from the spinal column, enables the arm when raised from the shoulder to be still farther outstretched, as in the movement termed extension in fencing. It comes powerfully into action in all movements of pushing ; its lower portion likewise combines with the trapezius in rotating the scapula. In forced inspiration, the scapula being fixed by the muscles which attach it to the trunk posteriorly andMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 202 superiorly, the lowest slips of the serratus rnagnus may assist in dilating the chest by raising and everting the ribs. The latissimus dorsi carries the elevated arm downwards and backwards, rotat- ing it at the same time inwards, so as to make the palm look backwards, thus accomplishing such a movement as is made by the arm in swimming. By pass- ing over the angle of the scapula it binds that part to the trunk, preventing its projection backwards ; and by being folded round the outer border of the scapula, it limits the projection outwards of the same angle when the arm is raised. The pectoralis major muscle, while it combines with the latissimus dorsi in depressing the humerus from the raised position, opposes that muscle by drawing* the limb forwards. It is placed upon the stretch when the arms are thrown backwards, and is most shortened when they are folded across the chest. In the remarkable case of Groux, affected with congenital cleft sternum, when the shoulders were fixed backwards, the action of the great pectoral muscles tended to separate the two segments of the sternum, and increased the space in which the motions of the heart could be observed through the integuments. Considered as acting on the trunk from the upper limb in a fixed condition, these muscles all tend to draw the trunk of the body towards the limb, as in climbing, or other like efforts. The latissimus dorsi muscles, if acting on both sides, carry the body upwards and forwards, as in the use of crutches. The pectorales and latissimus dorsi are also muscles of forced inspiration, tending to raise and evert the ribs, more especially when the shoulders are fixed and the arms are elevated. The upper parts of both trapezii acting on the occipital bone aid in extending the head on the vertebral column ; and if one muscle only acts, it aids in rotating the head. MUSCLES AND FASCI.33 OF THE SHOULDER. Fascia.—The deep fascia binds together the muscles of the shoulder with considerable firmness, and over the back part of the deltoid and infraspinatus muscles assumes a tendinous appearance. A strong and somewhat isolated portion, bound down to the vertebral and axillary margins of the scapula, covers the infraspinatus and teres minor muscles as far as they are left uncovered by the deltoid. On reaching the posterior border of the deltoid muscle, this aponeurosis divides into two layers, of which the deeper is continued beneath the deltoid to the shoulder- joint, and the more superficial forms the thin aponeurotic covering of that muscle, becoming more and more slender as it passes forwards, and is attached to the lower border of the spine. Muscles.—The deltoid muscle is of a triangular form and coarsely fasciculated, and extends from the most prominent part of the shoulder downwards for half the length of the upper arm. It takes origin in an extended line which may be divided into three portions, viz., an anterior from the front of the external third of the clavicle, a middle from the point and outer edge of the acromion, and a posterior from the lower border of the spine of the scapula as far back as the triangular surface at its inner end. The fasciculi from these several parts converge as they descend, and are inserted by a strong thick tendon into the deltoid im- pression, a triangular rough surface above the middle of the humerus on its outer side. The three parts composing the deltoid muscle differ somewhat in the dispo- sition of the muscular fasciculi and the tendons. The anterior and posterior por- tions are composed of parallel fasciculi which, arising from the clavicle by short tendinous fibres, and by longer ones from the spine of the scapula, are inserted into the outer surface of the marginal parts of the inferior tendon. In the acro- mial portion, while some of the muscular fibres spring directly from the bone, yet most of them arise in a penniform manner from the sides of three or, moreTHE DELTOID MUSCLE. 203 Fig. 161.—Superficial muscles of THE SHOULDER AND UPPER LIMB, FROM BEFORE. (A . T. ) £ 1, pectoralis major, its sterno- costal portion ; 1', its clavicular por- tion ; 2, deltoid, its clavicular part 2', its acromial part ; 3, biceps bracliii; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponeurotic slip ; 4, brachialis anticus ; 4', its inner and lower ]3or- tion ; 5, long head of the triceps ; 5', inner head of the same, seen arising from behind the intermus- cular septum. The explanation of the remaining references will be found in the description of fig. 165. frequently, four tendinous septa, which pass downwards into the substance of the muscle. These oblique fibres, running nearly parallel to each other, are in- serted in a similar manner into the sides of two or, more fre- quently, three septa which pass from below upwards and alter- nate with the upper septa. The oblique fibres, from the outside of the first and fourth upper septa are inserted into the marginal parts of the main tendon. There are besides wedge-shaped bundles of muscular fibres, rising directly from the acromion in the intervals between the penniform bundles, which are inserted into the tips of the lower tendinous septa, and others which, springing from the ends of the upper tendinous septa, are directly inserted into the hu- merus between the lower septa. The main tendon of insertion spreads from below upwards for some distance on the deep surface of the muscle. Relations.—The anterior border of the deltoid is in contact with the pectoralis major below, but separated from it by a small in- terval above : the cephalic vein, with a small artery, lies between the two muscles. In immediate contact with the deep surface is the large bursa which separates this muscle and the acromion from the shoulder joint and the muscles supporting it. The del- toid muscle covers the origins of the biceps and coraco-brachialis, the insertions of the supraspina- tus, infraspinatus and teres minorMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIME. 201 muscles, and parts of the long and outer heads of the triceps, as also the cir- cumflex vessels and nerve. Varieties.—The deltoid muscle is not subject to great varieties. One of the commonest is a greater degree of subdivision of its parts than usual. Another is the continuation into it of fibres from the trapezius, as in animals wanting the clavicle. Occasionally the anterior part is closely united in its whole length with the great pectoral muscle. Its insertion varies sometimes in extent. A remark- able prolongation of its tendon on the radial border of the forearm, as far as the insertion of the supinator longus, seems to repeat the tensor plicae alaris of the bird. (Macalister.) The supraspinatus muscle arises from the supraspinous fossa of the scapula to within a short distance of the neck of the bone, and from an aponeurosis by which it is covered. Its fibres converge beneath the acromion to a tendon, which adheres to the capsule of the shoulder-joint and to the tendon of the infraspinatus muscle, and is inserted into the upper of the three facets on the great tuberosity of the humerus. The infraspinatus muscle is of a triangular form, and occupies the greater part of the infraspinous fossa. It arises from the fascia covering it, from the under surface of the spine, and from the inner two-thirds of the dorsal surface of the scapula in the fossa, except those parts at the lower angle and along the external border, to which the teres muscles are attached. The fibres converge to a tendon, which, concealed at first within the substance of the muscle, is inserted into the middle facet of the great tuberosity of the humerus. Itelations.—The supraspinatus muscle is covered by the trapezius and the acro- mion process. The suprascapular nerve and vessels pass beneath it. The infraspinatus muscle is bound down by the aponeurosis which superiorly and externally divides so as to enclose the deltoid muscle. It is covered by the deltoid at its upper and outer part, and by the trapezius at its upper and inner part, by the latissimus dorsi at its lower angle, and in the intermediate portion it remains superficial. A small bursa is sometimes present between the tendon and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. Varieties.—The infraspinatus muscle is sometimes inseparably united with the teres minor. The supraspinatus is very constant in its form and attachments. The teres minor muscle is placed along the outer border of the infraspinatus, and is intimately connected with that muscle. It arises from a narrow obliquely grooved surface on the dorsum of the scapula close to the axillary border, and from aponeurotic septa between it and the infraspinatus and teres major muscles, and is inserted by tendon into the greater tuberosity of the humerus, immediately below the infra- spinatus, and by fleshy fibres into the bone for a short distance lower down. Itelations.—This muscle is partly covered behind by the deltoid, and in front is in contact with the long head of the triceps, and the capsule of the shoulder- joint. The dorsal scapular artery passes between, it and the bone. At its lower border is the teres major separated in part by the long head of the triceps. A bursa is sometimes found between the tendon and the bone. , The teres major muscle arises from the flat oval surface on the dorsum of the scapula near its inferior angle, slightly from the axillary border of the bone, and from the septa between it and the teres minor and infraspinatus muscles. It is inserted by a flat tendon, about two inches wide, into the inner border of the bicipital groove of the humerus,THE TERES MUSCLES. 205 behind and in contact with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, to which it is adherent for a short space. Close to the insertion, however, the tendons of these muscles are separated by a small bursa. The fibres run longitudinally in the muscle. Fig. 162.—Muscles of the eight Fig. 162. SHOULDER AND ARM, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A.T.) 5 The acromion process and a part of the spine of the scapula, with the deltoid muscle, have been removed. a, coracoid process ; b, triangular sur- face at the root of the spine ; c, is close to the cut portion of the spine; d, great tuberosity ; e, olecranon ; /, is close to the external condyle and head of the radius ; 1, supraspinatus ; 2, infraspinatus; 3, teres minor ; below the figure is the triangular space ; 4, teres major; 5, part of latissimus dorsi; + , slip from the inferior angle of the scapula; +, on the edge of the humerus, points to the tendon of the latissimus dorsi and the quadrangular space ; 6, scapular head of the triceps, passing above between the teres major and minor ; 6', outer head ; 6", part of the muscle rising below the spiral groove, continuous with the inner head ; 6"', part of the inner head ; 7, anconeus. Relations.—Posteriorly this muscle is covered at its lower part by the latissimus dorsi, and at its upper part it is crossed by the long head of the triceps. The lower border is surrounded obliquely by the latissimus dorsi; and the an- terior surface is concealed in the upper part of its extent by the tendon of that muscle. The upper border of the muscle forms the margin of a triangular space, of which the other sides are the upper part of the humerus, and the axil- lary border of the scapula, covered before by the eubscapular and be- hind by the teres minor muscles ; this triangle is divided by the long head of the triceps into an external, quadrilateral, and an internal, triangular compartment. Through the quadrilateral space pass backwards the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve; and in the triangular subdivision the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes round the margin of the sca- pula into the infraspinous fossa. Varieties.—The teres major muscle is sometimes found connected with the fasciculus of the latissimus dorsi arising from the same part of the scapula. A slip from this muscle has also been obseiwed descending upon the fascia of the upper arm externally. The subscapularis muscle arises partly by muscular and partly by tendinous fibres from the venter of the scapula, with the exception ofMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 206 Fig. 163. Fig. 163.—Superficial muscles of THE SHOULDER AND UPPER LIMB, SEEN FRO SI BEHIND. (A. T.) i a, acromion ; b, base of the sca- pula ; c, tendon of the trapezius muscle over the triangular surface of the spine of the scapula; d, ole- cranon ; e, external condyle; 1, trapezius; 2, acromial part of deltoid; 2', the part of the same muscle rising from the spine of the scapula; 3, rhomboideus major ; 4, infraspinatus ; 5, teres minor ; 6, teres major ; 7, latissimus dorsi ; +, space between the trapezius, rhomboid and latissimus muscles; 8, long head of triceps; 8', its outer head ; 8", its tendon ; 9, anconeus ; 10, part of the brachialis anticus ; 11, supinator longus ; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior. The explanation of the remaining refer- ences will be found in the description of fig. 168. the neck and the spaces occu- pied by the serratus magnus, but including the groove along the axillary border of the bone. The greater number of its fibres unite into a broad tendon which is inserted into the im- pression on the small tubero- sity of the humerus ; some of the lower fibres, however, are directly inserted into the bone for a short distance farther down. Three or four tendi- nous septa, attached to the ridges of the subscapular fossa, pass outwards in the origin of the muscle ; and others are prolonged inwards from the tendon of insertion. Relations.—The tendon of the subscapularis is incorporated with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, and between its upper border and posterior surface, and the coracoid process and neck of the scapula is a bursa usually communicating with that joint. There is some- times another bursa intervening between the anterior surface of the muscle and the upper ends of the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles. Anteriorly the muscle is in contact at its origin with theSUBSCAPULARIS.—ACTIONS OF SHOULDER MUSCLES. 207 serratus magmas, and is covered at its insertion by tbe coraco-brachialis and biceps, while, in tbe interval between, it forms part of the posterior wall of the axilla. Varieties.—The varieties hitherto observed in this muscle are not considerable. A small additional muscle, of somewhat variable form, has been described by different authors, as passing' from the upper part of the axillary border of the scapula to be inserted, at the lower margin of the subscapularis, into the capsu- lar ligament, or into the humerus near the inner margin of the bicipital groove, the subscapulo-capsularis of Macalister. Nerves of the" Shoulder Muscles—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus mus- cles receive their nerves from the suprascapular branch which proceeds from the upper trunk of the brachial plexus, and therefore from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The other muscles of this group are all supplied with nerves from the posterior division of the plexus, as follows : the deltoid and teres minor from the circumflex nerve, the subscapularis and the teres major from the upper and lower subscapular nerves. Actions of the Shoulder Muscles.—The deltoid muscle raises the arm from the side as far as the structure of the shoulder-joint permits, viz., till it is at right angles with the trunk. Farther elevation of the upper limb is effected chiefly by the serratus magnus and trapezius ; and it may be remarked that the insertion of the latter muscle corresponds almost exactly in extent to the origin of the del- toid, so that the two muscles may be considered continuous in structure as well as in action. The anterior fibres of the deltoid combine with the pectoralis major to draw the humerus forwards ; the posterior assist in drawing it backwards. The supraspinatus, infraspinatus and subscapularis muscles being placed more closely round the joint, when acting in concert with the deltoid, probably give steadiness and precision, while the deltoid gives the main elevating force to the movement. The supraspinatus simply abducts : the infraspinatus and subscapularis carry the arm backwards or forwards when it is raised, and rotate it outwards or inwards when hanging by the side. The teres major rotates the raised humerus inwards, the teres minor outwards : acting together, they assist in depressing the arm. The deltoid muscle superficially, and the supra- and infraspinatus muscles, the teres minor and subscapularis, more deeply, afford important protection to the shoulder- joint, and by their tension prevent displacement of the head of the humerus. MUSCLES AND FASCLH3 OF THE UPPER ARM. Fascije.—The aponeurosis of the arm is composed chiefly of trans- verse fibres, held together by others having an oblique or longitudinal direction ; it is thin over the biceps muscle, stronger where it covers the triceps, and particularly dense as it approaches the outer and inner condyles of the humerus. It is pierced on the inner side of the limb by the basilic vein, close below the middle of the arm. It is attached to the condyles and supracondylar ridges of the humerus by the two processes next to be described. The external and internal intermuscular septa are two fibrous partitions which bind the aponeurosis of the arm to the humerus, and with which the neighbouring muscles of the arm are intimately con- nected. The external intermuscular septum extends upwards from the outer condyle along the outer supracondylar ridge to the insertion of the deltoid, from which it receives tendinous fibres. It is pierced from behind forwards by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior pro- funda artery. The internal septum, much stronger, extends along the ridge from the inner condyle to the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is pierced near the elbow, from before backwards, by the anastomotic branch of the brachial artery. At the level of the elbow the aponeurosis is closely united to the peri-MUSCLES OF TILE UPPER LIMB. 208 osteum covering the subcutaneous parts of the bones, viz., the condyles of the humerus and the olecranon process of the ulna ; and it is strengthened in front and behind by tendinous fibres sent from the biceps and triceps muscles. Muscles.—The coraco-brachialis muscle, elongated in form, arises from the tip of the coracoid process of the scapula, between the pecto- ralis minor and the short head of the biceps, with which latter it is for some distance conjoined in a common tendon. The lower end of the muscle is inserted into the inner border of the humerus near its middle, on a linear impression of from one to two inches in length, between the origins of the triceps and the brachialis anticus. Higher up some of its fibres are frequently inserted into a fibrous band which is prolonged up- wards, forming an arch over the latissimus dorsi and teres major tendons, to be attached to the humerus close below the small tuberosity. Relations.—This muscle is usually pierced by the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; its outer border is in contact with the biceps muscle, and its inner with the brachial artery, by which it is crossed obliquely near its insertion. It lies in front of the tendons of the subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, and teres major, and is covered in great part by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles. Varieties.—This muscle has been shown by various authors to be subject to con- siderable varieties, which seem to indicate, according to Wood, that it consists typically of three parts ; viz., 1, a superior short one rising from the coracoid pro- cess, or near it, and running over the subscapularis muscle, to be inserted close below the small tuberosity of the humerus ; 2, a middle part corresponding most nearly to that usually described in human anatomy, of intermediate size, and placed between the first and third ; 3, an inferior part, which is the longest and most superficially placed, and descends to the inner condyle, or near it, and in many instances is inserted into a supracondylar process. The middle division of the muscle is most constant in man ; but is generally accompanied by a part of the third ; the musculo-cutaneous nerve passing between them. The first and third constitute the most marked varieties in man, and all three are found in various forms and degrees of development in different animals. The internal brachial ligament of Struthers is a fibrous band connected with the inferior part of this muscle. (Wood, Joum. Anat. i. 45.) The biceps flexor cubiti muscle has two heads of origin : one of these, the internal or short head, arises conjointly with the coraco- brachialis from the coracoid process of the scapula by a tendon which is soon continued into muscle ; the other, the long head, arises from the scapula at the upper end of the glenoid cavity, wfithin the capsule of the shoulder-joint, by a rounded tendon which is continuous on each side with the glenoid ligament; and this tendon, passing over the head of the humerus, leaves the joint by the bicipital groove, gradually enlarging into the fleshy head as it descends. The two muscular heads meet, and becoming closely applied together form an elongated and thick belly, occupying the middle and lower part of the arm : a little above the bend of the elbow, the muscle suddenly becomes narrower, 'and is continued into the thick tendon of insertion. This tendon, slightly twisted upon itself as it descends, is inserted into the rough posterior portion of the tuberosity of the radius, gliding on the anterior smooth surface of that process by the intervention of a synovial bursa. From the inner side of the lower part of the muscle and tendon a strong flat aponeurotic band, called the semilunar fascia, passes downwards and inwards, and becomes blended with the deep fascia of the forearm over the muscles arising from the internal condyle.BICEPS FLEXOR CUBITI. 209 Relations.—Concealed above by the deltoid and pectoralis major muscles, the fleshy belly of the biceps forms in the rest of its extent the prominence of the front of the arm. It lies in its upper part on the humerus, and in its lower on the bra- chialis anticus, and by its inner margin is in contact in its upper half with the coraco- brachialis, in its lower with the brachial artery. Its inferior tendon passes back- ! Fig. 164.—Deep view of the mus- cles OF THE RIGHT SHOULDER AND ARM, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) | a, b, outer half of the clavicle; c, coracoid process ; d, upper, and e, lower triangular spaces at the upper and lower angles of the scapula on its anterior surface to which the serratus magnus is attached ; /, great tube- rosity ; gr, surface of the humerus below the bicipital groove ; h, outer and i, inner condyle ; 1, cut coracoid head, and 1', cut glenoid tendon of the biceps muscle ; 2, double tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, from which a prolongation is seen running up to the capsule of the shoulder ; 3, insertion of the deltoid ; 4, coraco-brachialis; 5, subscapularis; 5', its insertion into the small tube- rosity ; 6, teres major ; 6', its inser- tion behind and below the latissimus dorsi; 7, part of the latissimus dorsi; +, slip from the inferior angle of the scapula ; 7', insertion of the tendon, after winding round the teres major, in front of and higher than that muscle ; 8, 8', brachialis anticus; 9, 9, long head of the triceps, at the upper part seen in the interval be- tween the teres major and subscapu- laris muscles ; 9', inner head ; 10, flexor profundus digitorum ; 11, tendon of insertion of the biceps. Fig. 164. wards between the supinator longus and pronator teres muscles, and the fibrous expansion or semilunar fascia is stretched across the brachial vessels and median nerve. Varieties.—The biceps is one of the most variable muscles in the body. The commonest variety is the occurrence of a third head which arises from the humerus in more or less close connection with the brachialis anticus and the insertion oi the coraco-brachialis, and is inserted into the coracoid portion of the muscle and the semilunar fascia: this head lies generally on the outer side of the brachial artery, but has sometimes been found covering the vessels. Less fre- quently an additional head springs from the outer side of the humerus, from the bicipital groove, or from the great tuberosity. In rarer cases two supplementary heads are present, arising from different parts of the humerus. Occasionally a fleshy slip is given off from the inner border of the muscle to the internal inter- muscular septum, or to the internal condyle, passing over the brachial artery ; and fasciculi have been seen passing to the pronator teres and to the brachialis anticus. In a few cases absence of the long head has been observed ; in others VOL. i. rMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 210 this head has been found to be attached in the bicipital groove, not extending to the scapula. The brachialis anticus muscle arises from the lower half of the front of the humerus and from the intermuscular septa of the arm. At the upper part of its origin it embraces the insertion of the deltoid by- two angular fleshy processes ; it extends downwards to the capsule of the elbow-joint, and inwards to the internal supracondylar ridge and the intermuscular septum in its whole extent; on its outer side it is separated from the intermuscular septum in the greater part of its length by the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior, and only arises from it for a short distance at its upper end. It is closely adherent to the anterior ligament of the elbow-joint, and terminates below in a thick mass which is inserted into the rough triangular surface on the front of the coronoid process of the ulna. Relations.—This muscle lies immediately behind and projects on each side of the biceps. It supports the brachial vessels and median nerve. On the outer side the musculo-spiral nerve lies upon it, under cover of the supinator longus. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to considerable variation. The most frequent of these consist in its subdivision into two or sometimes more parts; its union with neighbouring muscles, such as supinator longus, pronator teres or biceps ; insertion of a slip from it into the semilunar fascia; and occasionally into the radius. The triceps extensor cubiti (figs. 162, 163) occupies the whole posterior brachial region. The muscle consists of three separate portions or heads, which are united below in a common tendon occupying the posterior surface of the mass from the middle of the arm to the elbow, where it terminates by being inserted into the olecranon process of the ulna. The middle or long head arises from the rough triangular impres- sion on the lower part of the neck, and the adjacent portion of the axillary border of the scapula, by a tendon which spreads over the surface of the muscular structure proceeding from it. This head forms the middle and superficial part of the muscle, and its fibres end on the inner margin of the common tendon. The external head takes origin by tendinous and fleshy fibres from the upper and outer part of the posterior surface of the humerus, extending from the insertion of the teres minor downwards as low as the spiral groove, and from an aponeurotic arch formed by the external intermuscular septum as it crosses the upper part of the groove : its fibres, which are comparatively short, descend obliquely to be inserted into the upper end and outer border of the tendon. The internal or deep head, the shortest of the three, arises from the whole extent of the posterior surface of the humerus below the spiral groove, on the inner aspect of the arm reaching by a pointed process as high as the insertion of the teres major ; it also rises from the internal intermuscular septum in all its length, and from the inferior portion of the external septum. Some of its lower fibres are inserted immediately into the olecranon, but the greater part of them join the deep surface of the common tendon. No muscular fibres arise from the spiral groove itself. The insertion of the common tendon takes place into the posterior part of the upper surface of the olecranon, a small bursa intervening between it and the fore part of the surface ; from its outer side also a considerable band is prolonged downwards over the anconeus, blending with the fascia, in which the fibres can be followed to the posterior border of the ulna.TRICEPS EXTENSOR AND ANCONEUS MUSCLES. 211 delations.—The long head of the triceps lies between the two teres muscles above, and is closely connected to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The musculo- •spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery are deeply imbedded in the muscle, and in the spiral groove pass between the inner and outer heads. Varieties.—The most frequent varieties of the triceps muscle are the following, viz. :—1, an additional or fourth head arising from the inner part of the humerus, above or near the inner head; and 2, a slip of connection between the triceps and the latissimus dorsi, corresponding with the dorso-epitroclilearis or accessorius tricipitis which is common among quadrumana, and exists in many other mam- mals. The cpitrocMeo-anconeus of Wenzel Gruber is a small muscle frequently present, rising from the back of the inner condyle, and inserted into the olecranon : it lies over the ulnar nerve. Subanconeus.—On removing the triceps from the lower part of the humerus, a few muscular fibres are sometimes found passing from that part of the bone to the capsule of the elbow-joint. These fibres, which are analogous to the subcrureus in the lower limb, have been described as distinct from the triceps under the name subanconeus. The anconeus muscle, although placed chiefly below the elbow and in the forearm, is intimately connected with the triceps, and may be most appropriately associated in description with that muscle. It arises by a narrow tendon from a slight impression on the posterior surface of the external condyle of the humerus. From this the fibres diverge, the upper being transverse, the rest passing downwards with increasing degrees of obliquity, and are inserted into the olecranon on its radial aspect, and into the adjacent impression on the upper third of the shaft of the ulna. Its superior fibres are parallel to the lowest fibres of the internal head of the triceps, and are generally continuous with them. Relations.—This muscle is subcutaneous in its whole extent. Its deep surface Is in contact with the supinator brevis and the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. Varieties.—The anconeus varies chiefly in being more or less united to the triceps or the extensor carpi ulnaris. Nerves of the Brachial Muscles.—The three anterior flexor muscles are all supplied from the musculo-cutaneous nerve : the brachialis anticus, however, receives also a small twig from the musculo-spiral nerve. The triceps and anconeus receive then- nerves entirely from the musculo-spiral. Actions.—The biceps muscle raises the arm at the shoulder and flexes the elbow-joint; the short head of the biceps draws the arm inwards as well as up- wards, as does also the coraco-bracliialis. If the biceps be called into action when the hand is in pronation, its first effect, from its insertion into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, is to produce supination of the forearm. The biceps also makes tense the fascia of the forearm. The brachialis anticus is a simple flexor of the elbow. The external and internal heads of the triceps and the anconeus are simple extensors of the elbow-joint; the long head, while it assists in extending the elbow, also tends to depress the arm on the scapula. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE FOREARM. Fascije.—The superficial fascia of the forearm is most distinct opposite the bend of the elbow, where the superficial veins contained between its laminae are numerous and large. In the palm of the hand, on the contrary, the subcutaneous tissue forms a firm connecting medium between the skin and a strong aponeurosis named the palmar fascia; it consists of a network of fibres passing between those two structures, dividing the subcutaneous fat into small granular masses, and preventing the skin from shifting to any considerable extent. r 2MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 212 The aponeurosis of the forearm, like that of the arm, is composed principally of transverse fibres, strengthened, however, by longitudinal and oblique fibres descending from the condyles of the humerus, from the olecranon, from the semilunar fascia of the biceps and from the tendon of the triceps. It is attached along the subcutaneous margin of the ulna, and may be conveniently divided into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part of the aponeurosis of the forearm is much weaker than the membrane on the posterior aspect of the limb. It is continued below into the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. Over the hollow immediately below the bend of the elbow, it presents a small oval aperture for the transmission of a short communicating branch between the super- ficial and the deep veins of the forearm. It increases in density towards the hand ; and a little above the wrist affords a sheath to the tendon of the long palmar muscle, which passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the narrow end of the palmar fascia. Several white lines seen on the surface of the fascia near the elbow mark the position of the septa between the origins of the muscles descending from the inner condyle, which are continuous with it, and which, together with the adjacent portions of the fascia, give origin to the muscular fibres. Between the superficial and the deep flexor muscles, another layer of fascia is stretched from side to side; it is stronger below than above, where it generally consists of little more than thin connective tissue. The anterior annular ligament of the carpus, previously described at p. 161, is continuous at its upper margin with the fascia of the forearm and receives some fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris : the anterior surface and lower margin are connected with the palmar fascia, and give origin in part to most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. This structure may be considered in some measure as a deep thickened portion of the fascia of the wrist. The posterior portion of the aponeurosis of the forearm, much thicker than the anterior, is intimately connected with the strong septa between the several superficial muscles, and sends off transversely a thin mem- brane to separate the superficial from the deeper group of muscles. Approaching the back of the wrist, the transverse fibres increase in number and strength, and these, being stretched somewhat obliquely from the outer margin of the radius on one side to the pyramidal and pisiform bones and the palmar fascia on the other, constitute the posterior annular ligament of the carpus. This structure is attached not only to the points now indicated, but is likewise connected to the several longitu- dinal ridges on the posterior surface of the radius1, and thus converts the intermediate grooves into fibro-osseous canals which lodge the tendons of the extensor muscles. There are six separate spaces so enclosed, and each is lined by a distinct synovial sac. The outermost space corresponds with the groove on the outer side of the radius, and gives passage to the extensores ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis ; the next three, placed on the back of the radius, give passage respectively to the two radial carpal extensors, the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and the common extensor of the fingers, with the extensor indicis accompanying it; between the radius and ulna is the compart- ment for the extensor minimi digiti ; and corresponding to the groove on the back of the ulna is that for the extensor carpi ulnaris.213 PRONATOR AND FLEXOR MUSCLES. PRONATOR AND FLEXOR MUSCLES. The eight muscles on the front and inner part of the forearm are disposed in two sets, five being superficial, the others more deeply seated. The superficial layer of muscles comprehends the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sublimis digitorum. These five muscles are intimately united at their origin from the inner condyle, being attached to this by a common tendon which gives fibres to each, and also sends septa between them. The pronator radii teres muscle, the most external of the group, arises by two distinct heads ; one, large and superficial, is derived from the upper part of the inner condyle of the humerus, and from the common tendon above mentioned ; also from the fascia and the inter- muscular septum on its inner side. The second head, a thin fasciculus deeply placed, comes from the inner margin of the coronoid process, and joins the other at an acute angle. The fleshy belly thus formed proceeds outwards and downwards, and ends in a flat tendon which turns over the radius, and is inserted into a rough impression at the middle of the outer,surface of that bone. Relations.—The pronator teres is placed superficially in the greater part of its extent; but towards its insertion it is crossed by the radial artery and nerve, and the supinator longus muscle. The ulnar border is in contact with the flexor carpi radialis and flexor sublimis digitorum : the radial border forms the inner boundary of the angular space at the bend of the arm. in which are placed the brachial vessels, the median nerve, and the tendon of the biceps muscle. The pronator teres lies over the brachialis anticus and the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; the ulnar artery passes behind the whole muscle, and the median nerve between its two heads. Varieties.—The coronoid head is sometimes absent. In other cases the muscle is prolonged further than usual by a slip rising from the intermuscular septum above the inner condyle of the humerus, or from the supracondylar process when that is present. This peculiarity is sometimes associated with a change in the direction of the brachial artery. An additional head of origin from the biceps or from the brachialis anticus has also been observed. The flexor carpi radialis muscle arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the inter- muscular septa placed between it and the pronator teres on one side, the palmaris longus on the other, and the flexor sublimis posteriorly. The fleshy fibres end a little below the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which occupies a special compartment in the outer part of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, and running through a groove in the trapezium, to which it is bound by a thin fibrous sheath lined by a synovial membrane, is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone, a small slip being generally sent to the base of the third. Relations —The muscle lies immediately under tbe fascia until its tendon sinks beneath the annular ligament. In the lower half of the forearm the radial artery is placed to the outer side of the tendon. Varieties.—At its origin this muscle has been observed receiving an additional slip from the tendon of the biceps, the semilunar fascia, the coronoid process of the ulna, or the oblique line of the radius. Its insertion is subject to frequent varieties, taking place partly into the annular ligament, the trapezium, or into the fourth metacarpal bone as well as the second and third.214 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The palmaris longus, the smallest muscle of this group, is placed between the flexores carpi radialis and ulnaris, resting on the flexor sub. limis : it arises from the inner condyle, the fascia and the intermuscular septa, forming a small muscular belly, which soon ends in a long slender tendon, inserted into the palmar fascia near the middle of the wrist, and sometimes sending a slip to the short muscles of the thumb. Fig. 165. Fig. 165.—Superficial muscles of the forearm AND HAND, SEEN FROM THE FRONT. (A. T.) A 3, biceps ; 3', its tendon of insertion ; 3", its aponeu- rotic slip ; 4, brachial is anticus ; 4', its inner and lower portion ; 5', inner bead of the triceps ; 6, pronator radii teres ; 7, flexor carpi radialis ; 8, palmaris longus, passing at 8' into the palmar aponeurosis; 9, flexor carpi ulnaris; 10, 10, supinator longus; between 10 and 3, + , supinator brevis; 11, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 12, extensor primi internodii ; 13, lower part of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; 14, flexor longus pol- licis ; 15, small part of the flexor profundus digitorum ; 16, palmaris brevis, lying on the muscles of the little finger ; 17, abductor pollicis. Varieties.—This is probably the most variable muscle in the body. It is wanting to the extent of about ten per cent, of the bodies examined. It is subject to many variations of form ; c.g., the fleshy fibres may occupy the middle of the muscle, which, then commences and ends by an elongated tendon ; or the muscular structure may be placed towards the lower end, the upper part being tendinous ; or the whole muscle may be reduced to a mere tendinous band. It is sometimes represented by a slip from the flexor carpi ulnaris or flexor sublimis digitorum. Occasionally there are two long palmar muscles, one having the ordinary shape, while the other has one of the forms above referred to. An additional origin has been seen from the coronoid process, or from the radius. Among the varieties that have been observed in its mode of termination are : insertion, partial or complete, into the fascia of the forearm, into the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the pisiform bone, into the scaphoid, and into the muscles of the little finger. The flexor carpi ulnaris, the innermost muscle of the superficial group, arises by two heads, the one of which forms the hindmost part of the common tendon from the inner condyle of the humerus, the other is attached to the inner side of the olecranon, and to the posterior border of the ulna for two thirds of its length, by an aponeurosis which is insepar- ably connected with the investing aponeurosis of the limb. The muscular fibres, passing downwards and forwards from this long line of origin, terminate in a tendon which descends along the anterior margin of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone: this tendon is prolonged, by means of ligamentous structures, to the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones, as well as to the annular ligament.215 FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. Relations.—This muscle rests on the flexor profundus digitorum. The ulnar nerve and the posterior ulnar recurrent artery pass between the two heads of origin and the nerve is then covered by the muscle as far as the wrist, as is also the ulnar artery below the middle of the forearm. The flexor siiblimis digitorum or flexor perforatus, the super- ficial flexor of the fingers, is a broad flat muscle placed behind the pre- ceding muscles. It arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, and the fibrous septa common to it and the other muscles ; from the internal lateral ligament; from the inner margin of the coronoid process; and by a thin flat portion from the oblique line and part of the anterior border of the radius. It is divided interiorly into four parts, ending in as many tendons, which pass to be inserted into the second phalanx of each of the four inner digits. These tendons pass under the annular ligament of the wrist in pairs ; the anterior pair consisting of those for the middle and ring fingers, the posterior of those for the index and little fingers. That for the little finger is much smaller than the others. In the palm of the hand the tendons diverge, and each, accom- panied by a tendon of the flexor profundus, enters a fibrous sheath which binds both tendons down to the palmar surface of the phalanges. Opposite the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sublimis divides into two parts, which fold closely round the tendon of the deep flexor, and are reunited by their margins behind it: the two portions of the tendon thereafter separating, pass to be inserted one on each side into a ridge at the middle of the lateral border of the second phalanx. Relations.—In the forearm the flexor sublimis is for the most part concealed by the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus ; but between the last muscle and the flexor carpi ulnaris a narrow strip is superficial from the in- ternal condyle down to the annular ligament. Its radial origin is crossed by the radial artery. It rests on the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digi- torum, the median nerve, and the ulnar artery. In the palm of the hand, its tendons are covered by the palmar fascia, the superficial palmar arterial arch, and the branches of the median nerve ; and they lie in front of the accompanying tendons of the flexor profundus. Varieties.—The radial origin of the flexor sublimis is sometimes wanting. The body of the muscle is occasionally subdivided, so that each of the four tendons has a distinct muscular belly ; this happens most frequently with the radial and the little finger parts. The tendon to the little finger is sometimes absent. A muscular slip is frequently given from this muscle to the flexor pro- fundus, or to the flexor longus pollicis. The deep-seated muscles of the front of the forearm are the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus. The flexor profundus digitorum, or flexor perforans, a large and thick muscle, arises from the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of its length ; from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane for the same distance ; and from the aponeurosis attaching the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ulna. It divides inferiorly into four tendons, only one of which, that for the index finger, is distinct from the others above the wrist—the rest being connected together as far as the palm. In the palm the tendons, as they diverge, give origin to the lumbricales muscles. In front of the fingers they are bound to the first and second phalanges by the sheath common to them and the perforated tendons. Opposite the first phalanx, the tendon of each finger passes216 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. through the opening formed for its transmission in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, and it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Relations.—The upper extremity of the flexor profundus embraces the insertion of the brachialis anticus. In the forearm the muscle is covered by the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor sublimis digitorum, and Fig. 166. on its surface lie the median nerve and the ulnar vessels and nerve. The external border is adjacent to the flexor longus pollicis, from which it is se- parated on the interosseous membrane by the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. Fig. 166.—Deep anterioe muscles of the forearm. (A. T.) J The superficial muscles of the forearm and hand, together with the lumbricales, have been removed, and the place of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus is marked by two dotted lines, a, surface of the humerus above the coronoid fossa ; b, coronoid process of the ulna ; c, head of the radius covered by the orbicular ligament; +, internal lateral ligament of the elbow- joint ; d, lower end of the radius ; e, that of the ulna ; /, scaphoid and trapezium bones ; 1, supinator brevis ; 2, flexor longuS pollicis ; 3, flexor profundus digitorum ; 3', its four tendons, where they are about to pass under the annular ligament; 4, pronator quadratus on the lower part of the radius; 5, deep part of flexor brevis pollicis ; 6, adductor pollicis ; 7,first dorsal interosseous muscle ; 8, in the second space, is placed between the first palmar and the second dorsal interosseous muscles ; in the third space, between the third dorsal and the second palmar ; in the fourth space, between the fourth dorsal and the third palmar. (For the lumbricales, see figs. 167 and 172.) The lumbricales muscles are four tapering fleshy fasciculi, passing from the tendons of the flexor profundus to the tendons of the common extensor. Each muscle rises by fleshy fibres from the outer or radial border of one of the deep flexor tendons, and in the case of the two inner muscles/ also from the ulnar border of the second and third, and proceeding downwards and then backwards on the radial sides of the fingers, each is in- serted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpal phalanx. Varieties.—The flexor profundus often presents varieties in its origin, deriving fibres from the radius in some instances, a distinct slip from the coronoid process of the ulna in others, and more rarely from the inner condyle of the humerus. It is not unfrequently connected with the flexor sublimis, or with the flexor longus pollicis. The slip from the coronoid process constitutes in numerous cases an accessory or supplemental muscle which joins very variously one or more of the perforating tendons. Varieties of the lumbricales muscles are of frequent occurrence. Their number is sometimes diminished to three, and in rare instances is increased to five or six. The destination of one or two of them is often changed, and one finger (mostSHEATHS OF THE FLEXOR TENDONS. 217 frequently tlie middle or ring) has sometimes two inserted into it. Lastly, one muscle may be inserted into two fingers. The fourth has been observed to take the place of the fourth perforating tendon of the flexor profundus. Synovial bursa.—The tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors, as well as the median nerve, are surrounded beneath the annular ligament by a large and loose synovial bursa, which extends upwards to the level of the radio-carpal articulation, and downwards to a little beyond the bases of the metacarpal bones, being prolonged farther on the little finger tendons than on the others. Accor- ding to Max Schuller (deutsche med. Wochensch. 1878) this bursa is double, the sheath investing the tendons of the two ulnar fingers being separated by a longi- tudinal partition from that of the index and middle finger tendons. The latter division communicates opposite the upper border of the annular ligament, by a small aperture, with the synovial sheath of the flexor longus pollicis tendon. Fig. 167.—Bones op two fingers, with the insertions op the tendons. (It. Quain.) \ In A, the tendons of the flexor muscles are bound to the bones by the fibrous sheath. In B, the sheath has been removed, as well as the vincula accessoria ; 1, metacarpal bone ; 2, tendon of the flexor sublimis ; 3, tendon of the flexor profundus ; *, perforation of the sublimis by the profundus tendon ; 4, tendon of the extensor communis digitorum; 5, lumbricalis muscle ; 6, one of the interosseous muscles. The sheaths of the flexor tendons, by which they are bound down to the fingers, are formed opposite the shafts of the first and second phalanges by strong tendinous-looking bands of transverse fibres, vaginal ligaments, attached to the rough margins of the palmar surfaces of the phalanges. Opposite the joints, flexion is allowed by the substitution for those bands of a thin membrane, strengthened by oblique decussating fibres. The tendinous sheath has a synovial lining, which gives a separate investment to each tendon. The synovial membrane forms small folds (vincula accessoria tendinum) be- tween the tendons and the bones. There are two sets of these ; the one, liga- vienta Irevia, broad and membranous, passing between the tendons near their insertion and the lower part of the phalanx immediately above ; the other, liya- menta lonya, slender and less constant bands, joining the tendons at a higher level. Contained in the ligamentum breve of the deep flexor is a small band of yellow elastic tissue (vinculum subflavum). which stretches from the tendon to the head of the second phalanx, and may assist in drawing down the tendon after flexion of the fingers (J. Marshall, Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Eev. 1853). The flexor longus pollicis muscle, placed side by side with the flexor profundus digitorum, arises from the anterior surface of the radius, ex- tending from the oblique line to the edge of the pronator quadratus ;MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 218 from the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane ; and in the majority of instances it receives also a distinct fleshy and tendinous slip, spring- ing in common with the flexor sublimis digitorum from the inner condyle or tlie coronoid process. The muscle ends in a tendon which passes be- hind the annular ligament of the wrist close to the trapezium, turns out- wards between the two heads of the flexor brevis and between the sesa- moid bones, and, entering a canal similar to those of the other flexor tendons, is finally inserted into the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. As the tendon of the muscle passes under the annular ligament it is surrounded by a synovial bursa, which is continued below into the digital sheath, and com- municates above with the bursa of the common flexor tendons in the manner before mentioned. Varieties.—The flexor longus pollicis is sometimes connected by a slip with the flexor sublimis or profundus, or the pronator teres. A tendon of insertion into the index finger has been observed, as also a slip to the first lumbricalis. The pronator quadratus, placed close to the bones behind the last two muscles, arises from the inner part of the anterior surface of the ulna in its lower fourth ; its fibres cross the lower part of the forearm, some transversely and others obliquely, and they are inserted for a slightly shorter distance into the fore part of the radius. Varieties.—The pronator quadratus is subject to varieties, chiefly as follows :— 1. It may be entirely absent, but this is rare ; 2, it is subdivided into two layers, or occasionally into three ; 3, it extends farther upwards on the bones of the forearm than usual; 4, it is prolonged downwards on the carpus, in some cases as a radio-carpal, and in others as an ulno-carpal muscle. The radio-carpus (Fano), or flexor carpi radialis brevis (Wood), is an addi- tional small muscle not unfrequently seen, arising from the radius, usually from the anterior border and surface above the pronator quadratus, and very variably inserted below, into the annular ligament, the trapezium, magnum, or some other part of the carpus, or into one or more of the metacarpal bones. Nerves.—The muscles of the pronator and flexor group receive their nerves in greatest part from the median ; only one muscle, flexor carpi ulnaris, being wholly, and another, flexor profundus digitorum, in part, supplied from the ulnar nerve. The branches from the median are distributed to the muscles in two sets, the superficial muscles being supplied by branches arising from the trunk near the elbow, the deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus pollicis, the outer half of the flexor profundus and the pronator quadratus, being supplied by its anterior interosseous branch. SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. The muscles of this group are, like those of the front of the forearm, divided into a superficial and a deep layer. The superficial muscles are seven in number, viz., the supinator longus, the extensores carpi radiales longior and brevior, the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, and anconeus. The last muscle has already been described in connection with the triceps (p. 211). The supinator radii longus muscle (brachio-radialis—Soemmering) arises from the upper two-thirds of the external supracondylar ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres form a thin fleshy mass, which descends on the outer and anterior part of the limb to about the middle of the forearm, where it ends in a flat219 SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. tendon, which is inserted into an impression on the outer side of the lower end of the radius, near the base of the styloid process. Relations.—This muscle is covered only by skin and fascia, except at its in- sertion, where two of the extensor tendons of the thumb lie over the tendon. Above, the brachialis anticus is in contact with its inner surface, the musculo- spiral nerve being interposed, and the long radial extensor is beneath it. It Fig. 163. Fig. 168.— Superficial muscles of the forearm AND HAND, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) ^ d, olecranon; e, external condyle ; /, lower end of ulna; 8", tendon of triceps; 9, anconeus ; 10, part of brachialis anticus; 11, supinator longus; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior ; 13, brevior; 14, extensor communis digitorum ; 15, extensor carpi ulnaris; 15', its insertion into the fifth metacarpal bone; +, between 14 and 15, extensor minimi digiti; 16, origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris by an aponeurosis from the back of the ulna ; 17, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis : 17', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone; 18, extensor primi intemodii pollicis; 18', its insertion into the first phalanx; + and +, posterior annular ligament; at I, the tendons of the long and short radial extensors ; at +, the tendon of ’the extensor minimi digiti; 19, tendon of extensor secundi internodii; 20, is placed on the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, close to the insertion of the radial extensors of the carpus : in the hand, the dorsal interosseous muscles are shown, and on the middle finger the insertion of the extensor tendon. forms the outer boundary of the triangular space at the bend of the elbow, and in the forearm it rests upon the supinator brevis, pro- nator teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and the radial vessels and nerve. Varieties.—These are neither great nor nu- merous in this muscle. One of the commonest is the division of the tendon or lower part of the muscle into two or sometimes three slips, which are inserted either together or at some distance from each other. The supinator longus may also be connected to some of the neigh- bouring muscles, especially at its origin. The extensor carpi radialis longior muscle arises from the lower third of the external supracondylar ridge of the hu- merus, and from the external intermus- cular septum ; a few fibres also spring from the outer side of the common tendon of the extensor muscles. Its muscular belly ends above the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which passes, conjointly with that of the following muscle, in the outermost of the grooves on the posterior surface of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. A small bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. The extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle arises from the outerMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 220 condyle of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the following muscles, from the intervening fibrous septa, from the fascia covering it, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint. Its mus- cular belly ends in a tendon, which, descending with that of the extensor longior, passes through the same groove of the radius with it, and is in- serted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A small bursa is placed under the tendon close to its insertion, and there is occasionally another between the origin of the muscle and the supi- nator brevis. Relations.—Of the two foregoing' muscles the extensor longus is the more superficial. The extensor brevis covers the supinator brevis and the insertion of the pronator radii teres. The tendons of these muscles and that of the supinator longus are crossed obliquely by the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—The two foregoing muscles are subject to a similar variation in being, one or other of them, split up into two or sometimes three tendons pre- vious to insertion ; the tendons of either muscle being inserted into both the second and third metacarpal bones : occasionally a slip passes also to the fourth metacarpal bone. The two muscles have been seen united, so that a single fleshy belly gives off two tendons ; and cross slips from one muscle to the other are of frequent occurrence. An additional muscle, called extensor carpi radialis accessorius by Wood, is sometimes met with, rising from the humerus below the extensor carpi radialis longior, and inserted most frequently into the metacarpal bone of the thumb, but sometimes into the abductor joollicis, first dorsal interosseous muscle, or other part. It is represented at times by a slip from the tendon of the extensor longior. The extensor communis digitorum muscle arises from the outer condyle by the common tendon, from the fascia of the forearm, and from the septa between it and the adjoining muscles. In the lower third of the forearm the muscular part ends in four tendons, which pass under the posterior annular ligament, lying in the innermost broad groove on the back of the radius, and diverge as they proceed along the carpus and metacarpus to reach the fingers. Here each is increased by tendinous fibres derived from the lumbricales and interosseous muscles, forming a fibrous expansion which covers the back of the first and second phalanges and terminates upon the third phalanx. It is attached to the second and third phalanges in the following manner. Opposite the first bone the tendon divides into three slips ; the central one is much thinner than the others, and is inserted into the base of the second phalanx ; the two lateral parts, continuing onwards, join together below and are inserted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons to the index and little fingers, which are much smaller than the other two, are joined opposite the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations by the special extensor tendons of those digits. On the back of the hand the four tendons are united by cross slips or vincula. That between the index and middle finger tendons is simply a thin, loose band of transverse fibres, and is not unfrequently wanting. Those on each side of the ring finger tendon are much stronger ; one passes obliquely downwards from the third (ring finger) tendon to the second, the other from the fourth tendon to the third. In consequence of this arrangement the three inner fingers are associated in their move- ments, and the ring finger can not in general be freely extended without also moving the middle one. The tendons are farther bound down over the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations by means of apo-221 SUPINATOR AND EXTENSOR MUSCLES. neurotic bands, which are given off from the margins of each, and directed forwards by side of the joint, to blend with the palmar ligament of the articulation. Varieties.—The varieties of the extensor communis digitorum resolve them- selves chiefly into the following, viz., 1st, the occasional deficiency of one or more of the tendons of insertion, and 2nd, more frequently an increase in their number. This last goes in some instances to the extent of doubling- the tendon to each of the fingers, and even of tripling it to one or two of them. More frequently, however, the increase in number of the tendons is limited to the index or little finger alone. The extensor minimi digiti is a slender muscle which is placed between the extensor communis digitorum and the extensor carpi ulnaris, and arises by means of a thin tendon in common with the extensor communis. The tendon in which it ends occupies a groove between the radius and ulna, passing through a special compartment in the annular ligament; on the back of the hand it becomes split into two, the outer division being joined by the fourth tendon of the common extensor, and both parts end in the dorsal expansion of the little finger, in the formation of which it takes by far the greater share. Varieties.—This muscle is subject to an increase in the number of its tendons of insertion, and in a large proportion of the cases the additional tendon is inserted into the ring-finger. The entire absence of the muscle has also been observed. The extensor carpi ulnaris, the most internal of the muscles descending on the back of the forearm, arises from the external con- dyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from a strong intermuscular septum on its outer side, and from the fascia of the forearm. The belly of the muscle is in its middle third closely bound down to the posterior border of the ulna by the fascia, and it occasionally receives a few addi- tional fibres from this portion of the bone. The fleshy fibres are collected round a tendon which becomes free a little above the wrist, and runs through a special groove in the carpal end of the ulna and a separate sheath in the annular ligament, to be inserted into the tuberosity on the base of the fifth metacarpal bone. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently connected with the abductor minimi cligiti. It also sometimes sends a prolongation to the extensor tendons on the back of the little finger, which has been named ■ulnaris quinti. The deep-seated muscles on the back of the forearm are five in number, the supinator brevis, the three extensors of the thumb, and the extensor of the index finger. The supinator radii brevis muscle arises from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, from the annular ligament of the radius, and from a depression below the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending downwards a short distance along the outer border of the bone. The fleshy fibres derived from these points of attachment, as well as from a tendinous expansion on the surface, which can be followed up to the external condyle, pass obliquely round the upper part of the radius, covering it closely except at the inner side, and are inserted into that bone, for rather more than a third of its length, reaching down to the insertion of the pronator radii teres. It is pierced by the posterior in-222 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. terosseous nerve, which effects a more or less complete division of the muscle into two layers. The extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscle (abductor longus pollicis—Albinus) arises from a narrow oblique impression occupying the upper part of the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna (see p. Fig. 169. of the supinator longus, and, the radial artery. Fig. 169.—Deep posterior muscles of the forearm. (A. T.) J a, humerus; b, olecranon ; c, radius ; d, lower part of the ulna, grooved for the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris, which is cut short; 1, an- coneus ; 2, flexor profundus digitorum, exposed by the removal of the aponeurotic tendon of 3, the flexor carpi ulnaris ; +, supinator brevis ; 4, ex- tensor carpi radialis hrevior, and 5, the cut tendon of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; e, their inser- tions into the second and third metacarpal hones ; 6, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 6', its insertion into the base of the first metacarpal bone ; 7, ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis ; T, its insertion into the base of the first phalanx; 8, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 8', its insertion into the base of the last phalanx ; 9, extensor indicis; 9', its junc- tion with the tendon of the common extensor, which is cut short : in the intermetacarpal spaces the four dorsal interosseous muscles are exposed, the tendons of the common extensor having been removed ; and at 10, the insertions of the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles, by a triangular expansion, into the tendon of the extensor communis, as well as the mode of insertion of that tendon into the middle and last phalanges, are shown. 92), below the origin of the supinator brevis ; from the middle third of the pos- terior surface of the radius, below the in- sertion of the same muscle ; and from the interosseous membrane between. Thence descending obliquely outwards, it ends in a tendon which passes, in company with the extensor primi internodii pollicis, through the groove on the outer side of the lower extremity of the radius, and is inserted in the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Relations.—The upper part of this muscle is concealed by the common extensor, but it be- comes superficial below, and together with the next muscle crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the carpus, conceals the insertion below the extremity of the radius, crosses The extensor primi internodii pollicis muscle lies close to the lower border of the extensor ossis metacarpi, and is much smaller than that muscle ; it arises from the interosseous ligament and a small part of the radius below the middle of the forearm ; its tendon accompanies that of the extensor ossis metacarpi through the same compartment ofEXTENSOB, MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. 223 the annular ligament, and passes on to be inserted into the proximal end of the first phalanx. The extensor secundi internodii pollicis muscle, much larger than the extensor primi internodii, which it overlaps, arises immediately below the extensor ossis metacarpi from the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna for its middle third or more, and from the interosseous membrane for about an inch opposite the lower part of the Fig. 170.—Superficial mus- Fig. 170. CLES AND TENDONS ON THE BACK OF THE WRIST AND hand (after Bourgery). g The posterior annular liga- ment of the wrist is represented. I, extensor ossis metaearpi pol- licis ; 1', its insertion ; 2, ex- tensor primi internodii pollicis; 2', its insertion; 3, tendon of extensor secundi internodii pol- licis ; 4, extensor communis digitorum ; 4', tendon to the middle finger, receiving the in- sertion of the second and third dorsal interosseous muscles ; 4", division of the tendon into three portions, of which the median is inserted into the second phalanx, the two lateral passing on to be inserted at 4"', into the terminal phalanx ; 5, extensor minimi digiti; 5', its junction with the slip of the common extensor; 6, placed on the lower end of the ulna, points to the extensor carpi ulnaris; 6', insertion of this muscle into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone ; 7, part of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; 8, placed on the os magnum,points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis brevior; 8', placed on the base of the second meta- carpal bone, points to the insertion of the extensor carpi radialis longior ; 9, tendon of extensor indicis ; 10, small part of the adductor pollicis, and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis ; 11, first dorsal interosseous or abductor indicis : in the other three inter- osseous spaces are seen in succession, from the radial side inwards, the insertion of the first palmar, second dorsal, third dorsal, second palmar, fourth dorsal, and third palmar interosseous muscles ; 12, abductor minimi digiti. ulnar attachment. Its fibres end in a tendon which passes through a separate compartment of the annular ligament, occupying the narrow oblique, groove in the middle of the posterior surface of the carpal end of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—The extensor muscles of the thumb are subject to considerable variations, and if all the three muscles be included they seem to occur as often as in one out of every six subjects dissected. The most common occur in the extensor ossis metacarpi, and consist in more or less cleavage of the muscle of its tendon into separate parts. The insertion of the distinct tendons takes place either doubly into the first metacarpal bone, or in part into the trapezium, orMUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 224 into the abductor or opponens pollicis muscles. The extensor primi intemodii is sometimes absent, being-, as it were, fused with the extensor ossis metacarpi, in other cases it is more or less united with the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis. An occasional variety, representing a muscle normally existing in the dog and many carnivora, is the presence of an additional extensor between the indicator and the extensor secundi intemodii pollicis, with a double tendon and insertion into both digits. The extensor indicis or indicator muscle arises from the outer division of the posterior surface of the ulna for a variable extent below the extensor secundi intemodii, and slightly from the interosseous membrane at its lower part. The tendon passes with the common extensor through a compartment of the annular ligament, comes in contact with the tendon from that muscle destined for the index finger, and unites with it to form the expansion already described. Fig. 171.—Transverse section op the right HAND BETWEEN THE CARPUS AND META- CARPUS. (A. T.) 4 a, b, c, d, e, articular surfaces of the trape- zium, trapezoid, magnum and unciform bones ; a', palmar ridge of the trapezium ; e', unciform process ; between a' and e', the cut edge of the annular ligament, sending a process towards tire trapezoid at 11, by which the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is enclosed in the groove of the trapezium ; 1, tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 2, extensor primi intemodii; 3, extensor secundi intemodii; 4, extensor carpi radialis longior; 5, brevior; G, index finger tendon of extensor communis digitorum ; 6', remaining tendons ; 7, extensor indicis ; 8, extensor minimi digiti; 9, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 10, flexor carpi radialis; 11, flexor longus pollicis ; 12, the first on the ulnar side of the tendons of the flexor sublimis digitorum ; 13, the same of the flexor pro- fundus ; 14, median nerve ; 15, the palmar aponeurosis stretched across the annular ligament; 16, palmaris brevis; 17, short muscles of the thumb; 18, muscles of the little finger. Varieties.—This muscle is but rarely absent. Its tendon is frequently double, and one of the parts may pass to the middle finger, leading to the formation of an extensor medii digiti, which may occur also as a distinct muscle arising from the ulna or posterior ligament of the wrist-joint below the indicator. Less fre- quently an extensor brevis digitorum manus is present, arising from the back of the wrist-joint, or from the carpus, or from the bases of some of the metacarpal bones, and sending tendons to one, two, or three fingers. Intermediate forms between these two muscles are also met with. Nerves.-—The anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior receive branches directly from the musculo-spiral trunk ; the remaining muscles of this group are supplied by the posterior interosseous division of that nerve. Fig. 171. MUSCLES AND FASCL£E OP THE HAND. Fasciae.—The fascia of the dorsum of the hand, a thin layer composed mainly of transverse fibres, is prolonged downwards from the lower border of the annular ligament over the extensor tendons, and blends with these on the fingers. Deeper than the extensor tendons thin aponeuroses are stretched over the intermetacarpal spaces, being attached laterally to the bones, and covering the dorsal interosseous muscles to which they are firmly adherent.225 MUSCLES AND FASCLZE OF THE HAND. The fascia of the palm consists of a central part which is thick and strong, and of two lateral portions, which are very thin and cover the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. The central portion is that commonly referred to under the name of the palmar fascia. Consisting principally of longitudinal fibres which are in largest part continued from the tendon of the palmaris longus, others however springing from the front of the annular ligament, it is narrow above and becomes expanded and thinner below. Here it divides into four processes which pass to the bases of the several fingers, and join the commencement of the digital sheaths, sending some fibres also to the integument at the clefts of the fingers, and to the superficial transverse ligament. From the sides of these processes, moreover, offsets are sent backwards to be attached to the transverse metacarpal ligament opposite the lateral margins of the heads of the metacarpal bones, and thus above each finger a short canal is formed in which the flexor tendons run. In the intervals between the processes some deeper transverse fibres make their appearance, covering the lumbricales muscles and the digital ves- sels and nerves. At the lower margin of the palm a superficial band of transverse fibres, which stretches across the roots of the four fingers, being contained in the folds of skin at the upper ends of the clefts, is known as the superficial transverse ligament of the fingers. There is also deeply placed in the palm a thin layer of fascia which covers the inter- osseous muscles, and dipping between them is attached to the palmar ridges of the metacarpal bones, while interiorly it becomes continuous with the transverse metacarpal ligament. From the deep surface of the palmar fascia a thin septum is sent backwards on each side between the flexor tendons and the thumb and little finger muscles respectively, and these, joining the fascia covering the interosseous muscles, complete a sheath in which the tendons are contained in their passage through the palm. Cutaneous ligaments of the phalanges.—Under this name Professor Cleland has described some fibrous bands which spring from the edges of the phalanges and are inserted into the skin of the sides of the fingers, and which serve the purpose of retaining the skin in position during flexion of the joints (Joum. Anat. xii. 526). Muscles.—Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lumbri- cales already described, there are placed in the hand one superficial muscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and the interosseous muscles. The palmaris brevis (fig. 165, 16) is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and the annular ligament; its fibres pass transversely inwards, and are in- serted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. Relations.—The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little finger and covers the ulnar vessels and nerve. Muscles of the thumb.—The fleshy mass which forms the thenar eminence, or ball of the thumb, consists of four muscles. The abductor pollicis muscle, superficial and flat, arises mainly from the front of the annular ligament, a few of the outer fibres being- attached sometimes to the ridge iff the trapezium or the tubercle of the scaphoid; proceeding downwards and outwards, it is inserted by a tendon into the radial border of the first phalanx of the thumb at its base. VOL. I. Q226 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The opponens pollicis muscle, placed behind the abductor, arises from the annular ligament and from the outer side of the ridge of the trapezium, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone Fig. 172. Fig. 172.—Muscles and tendons op the PALMAR ASPECT OP THE HAND. \ Portions of the tendons of the superficial flexor have been cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the lumbrieales. 1, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, cut short; 2. tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, inserted into the pisi- form bone ; 3. anterior annular ligament ; 4, abductor pollicis ; 5, opponens pollicis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis pollicis ; 7, adductor pollicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 10, lumbrieales. of the thumb at the radial border, as well as the adjoining part of the palmar surface. The flexor brevis pollicis muscle arises in two parts, a superficial and a deep. The superficial part, much the smaller, is attached to the outer two-thirds of the annular ligament at its lower border: the deep part is attached in several slips to the tra- pezium, to the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, to the os magnum, and to the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. From these origins two strong masses of fibres proceed, which are known as the outer and inner heads of the muscle, and these, becoming tendinous, are Fig. 173. Fig. 173.—Deep muscles of the palm of THE HAND. 5 The abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular liga- ment and the deep flexor tendons in the palm, have been removed ; in the fore-finger the ten- dons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain ; in the other fingers the tendons of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle ; 2, opponens pol- licis ; 3, flexor brevis pollicis; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unci- form bone ; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the outer head is also joined by a consi- derable fasciculus from the deeper origin ; the inner head is inserted con- jointly with the adductor pollicis. In each of the tendons of insertion a sesamoid bone is developed, which plays over the head of the first metacarpal bone. The tendon of the long flexor lies between the two origins, and grooves the surface of the muscle as it passes between the heads of insertion.227 MUSCLES OF THE HAND. The adductor pollicis muscle arises from the ridge on the lower two- thirds of the palmar aspect of the third metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb along with the inner tendon of the short flexor. The deep palmar arterial arch passes between this muscle and the deep origin of the flexor brevis. Muscles of the little finger.—The fleshy mass at the inner border of the hand (hypothenar eminence) consists of three muscles pass- ing to the little finger. The abductor minimi digiti muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the lower border and inner surface of the pisiform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger on the ulnar border, a slip being sent to the extensor tendon on the back. The flexor brevis minimi digiti, separated at its origin from the ab- ductor muscle by a small interval through which pass the deep palmar branches of the ulnar nerve and artery, arises from the front of the annular ligament, and from the tip of the hooked processor the unciform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, in common with the preceding muscle. This muscle is sometimes absent, or becomes incorporated with the abductor. The opponens minimi digiti muscle arises from the annular liga- ment and the unciform process, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the fifth metacarpal bone in all its length. The interosseous muscles occupy the intervals between the meta- carpal bones. They are seven in number, all of them more or less visible from the pahnar aspect, and they are divided into two sets, viz., those which are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpus, and those which are seen only in the palm. Their disposition is most easily understood by reference to their action. The dorsal interosseous muscles abduct the fingers from the middle line of the hand; they are four in number, one in each of the spaces be- tween the metacarpal bones, and are numbered from without inwards. Each muscle arises from both the metacarpal bones between which it is placed, but most extensively from that supporting the finger upon which it acts, and the fibres converge pennately to a common tendon in the middle. Each terminates in a tendon which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the tendon of the extensor muscle on the dorsum of the same part of the finger. Two of the muscles are inserted into the middle finger and draw it to either side; of the remaining two one passes to the radial side of the index finger, and the other to the ulnar side of the ring finger ; they withdraw those fingers from the middle line of the hand. The first dorsal interosseous muscle or abductor indicis is larger than the others ; its outer and larger head of origin arises from the proximal half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone, the inner is attached to the whole length of the second metacarpal bone, and be- tween these heads there is left superiorly an interval wider than in the other dorsal interosseous muscles. Relations—Between the heads of the abductor indicis the radial artery passes forwards to the palm of the hand ; between those of the other dorsal interosseous muscles, small perforating arterial branches are transmitted. The three palmar interosseous muscles are adductors, drawing the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle line of the hand. They Q 2MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 228 are visible only on the palmar aspect of the hand, each one arising from the corresponding lateral surface of the body of the metacarpal bone of the finger on which it acts : they terminate, like the dorsal muscles, in small tendons inserted partly into the bases of the first Fig. 174. Fig. 175. Fig. 174.—The right hand from behind, showing the dorsal interosseous muscles (R. Quain). f The tendons of the extensor muscles have been removed as far as the distal ends of the metacarpal bones. 1, 2, 3 and 4, the dorsal interosseous muscles, in order from the radial side inwards ; their expanded insertion in connection With the extensor tendons, is shown upon the first phalanges. Fig. 175.—The right hand from before, showing the palmar interosseous muscles (R. Quain). f- 1, 2, 3, refer to the first, second, and third palmar interosseous muscles. phalanges at the side, and partly into the extensor tendons. The first palmar interosseous muscle belongs to the ulnar side of the index finger; the others are placed on the radial sides of the ring and little fingers. Varieties of the short muscles of the hand.—The palmaris brevis varies greatly in the strength of its muscular fibres, and somewhat also in then- length and direction. It is seldom entirely absent (in the proportion of one in forty-five out of six hundred dissections by Macalister). It is sometimes found running into the flexor minimi digiti. The abductor pollicis is often divided into an outer and an inner part—a condition described by Scemmerring as normal. Accessory slips are also found joining the muscle ; frequently from the tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis or palmaris longus, more rarely from the extensor carpi radialis longior (or accessorius), from the styloid process or opponens pollicis. Another slip, which is frequently present, springs from the skin over the upper part of the thenar eminence. The flexor brevis pollicis is a variable muscle, especially in its deeper belly, which shows a tendency to become more or less connected with the adductor pollicis ; and in the same manner the latter muscle is subject to variation in its extent in inverse proportion to that of the flexor brevis. The abductor minimi digiti is found occasionally divided into two or even three slips ; in other cases it is united with the flexor brevis. An accessory head is not unfrequently present, arising from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, the229 ACTIONS OF MUSCLES OF FOREARM AND HAND. annular ligament, the fascia of the forearm, or tendon of the palmaris longus. In some cases the additional head arises a considerable distance above the wrist from the intermuscular fascia, under either the flexor carpi ulnaris or flexor carpi radialis, and passing downwards covers the ulnar artery to a greater or less extent, ending in the abductor or occasionally in the flexor minimi digiti. This long head is regarded by Macalister as a derivative of the palmaris longus. The opponentes muscles are subject to varieties chiefly affecting their extent, and the degree of their union with or separation from the neighbouring muscles. The interosseous muscles present some variations but not of any great magnitude. They are occasionally double in one or more of the spaces. A palmar interosseous muscle of the thumb is frequently present, and according to Henle is regular, in the form of a muscular slip springing from the first metacarpal bone in front of the abductor indicis, and joining below the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The arrangement which usually exists in the foot, and which is peculiar to man, has also been observed to occur in the hand. Nerves of the muscles of the hand.—The median nerve supplies branches to the abductor pollicis, the flexor brevis and opponens immediately below the annular ligament, and to the first two lumbricales muscles from the third and fourth digital nerves respectively. The ulnar nerve, besides giving a twig to the palmaris brevis, furnishes by its deep palmar division branches to the muscles of the little finger, the two internal lumbricales, all the interosseous muscles, the adductor, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM AND HAND. The muscles of the forearm may be distinguished according to their actions as pronators and supinators, flexors and extensors of the wrist, and long flexors and extensors of the fingers; those of the hand are flexors and extensors, adductors, abductors and opposers of the fingers ; the terms adduction and abduction being here used with reference to the middle line of the hand. Pronation is mainly effected by the pronator teres and pronator quadratus : the flexor carpi radialis also contributes slightly to this movement. The pronator teres is fitted to flex the elbow when pronation has been completed, or when it is prevented by antagonistic muscles, and in this action it receives assistance from the other muscles arising from the internal condyle. Supination is effected principally by the supinator brevis, together with the biceps, the supinator longus having but little influence upon this action. The latter muscle is essentially a flexor of the elbow, acting, however, only after that movement has been begun by other muscles. The radial extensors of the wrist assist also in flexing the elbow ; the remaining muscles arising from the external condyle aid in extending that joint. Flexion of the wrist is produced by the radial and ulnar flexors of the carpus, and is aided by the flexors of the fingers when the action of those muscles on the fingers is either completed or is opposed by any resistance, as when the over- extended hand is pressed against a surface in pushing, or in the support of the body. Extension of the wrist, in a similar manner, is accomplished not only by the three muscles specially devoted to that function, but also by the extensors of the fingers. The lateral movements of the wrist are produced by the same muscles, acting in different combinations : abduction by the radial flexor and extensors, assisted by the extensors of the thumb ; and adduction by the ulnar flexor and extensor. To ensure the efficient action of the long extensor and flexor muscles of the fingers it is necessary that there should be simultaneous action of the flexors and extensors of the wrist respectively ; for the wrist-joint must be fixed backwards by its extensors in order that the long flexors of the fingers may act, and the wrist must be fixed forwards by its flexors in order that the long extensors may act upon the fingers. The flexor sublimis digitorum and the flexor profundus bend respectively the second and the third phalanges of the fingers, while the extensor communis ex- tends chiefly the first phalanx. The four lumbricales, on the other hand, and the230 MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF TEE LOWER LIMB. seven interosseous muscles have a double action, in consequence of their insertion, complete or partial, into the expansions of the extensor tendons. This action con- sists firstly, in the flexion of the fingers at the metacarpophalangeal articulations, and secondly, in extension of the second and third phalanges. The lumbricales and interosseous muscles, therefore, are antagonists to both the long flexors and to the long extensor. This partial and combined action of the long and short muscles upon the fingers, of which the movements made in forming the hair- stroke in writing may be taken as an example, has been well known for a con- siderable time, especially as regards the lumbricales, but it has recently been confirmed and elucidated as regards the interossei by the electro-physiological experiments and pathological observations of Duchenne, whose interesting work* may be advantageously consulted on these and other muscular movements. With respect to the interosseous muscles, it is farther to be observed that, besides being flexors of the first and extensors of the second and third phalanges in the manner previously stated, they severally exercise an abducting or adducting action on certain fingers, or direct them away from or towards the middle line of the hand, according to the places of their respective insertions ; and thus the four dorsal interosseous muscles are abductors of the index, middle and ring fingers, and the three palmar interosseous muscles are adductors of the index, ring, and little fingers respectively. While the muscles of the thumb produce for the most part the several move- ments indicated by their names, these movements, in consequence of the position of the first metacarpal bone, take place in directions which differ from those of the corresponding movements of the fingers. Thus, extension, being movement in the direction of the dorsal surface of the digit, occurs in nearly the same plane as abduction of the fingers ; and in abduction, the thumb moving in the direction of its radial border is carried more forwards than outwards. Opposition is pro- duced by the combined action of the flexor brevis and opponens muscles. The little finger is withdrawn from the others by its abductor, as the ring finger is withdrawn from the middle finger by the fourth dorsal interosseous muscle ; and the abductor acting with the long flexors, likewise assists the flexor brevis in keeping the first phalanx firmly down in grasping. The opponens draws forwards the fifth metacarpal bone, so as to render the hand narrower and deepen the hollow of the palm. While the palmar is longus has the effect of tightening the palmar fascia, the palmaris brevis draws up the integument on the inner side, so as to increase the hypothenar prominence. II.—MUSCLES AND FASCIA! OF THE LOWER LIMB. The muscles which pass between the trunk and the lower limb, viz., the psoas, pyriformis, and part of the gluteus maximus, are so few in number and so intimately connected with others belonging strictly to the limb, that it is unnecessary to describe them as a distinct group, as has been done in the case of the more numerous and considerable ,muscles which attach the upper limb to the trunk. FASCIiE OF TEE HIP AND THIGH. The superficial fascia of the lower limb is similar to and continuous with that of other parts of the body. Over the gluteal region it is very thick, and assists in forming the prominence of the buttock. On the front of the thigh it covers the lymphatic glands and the superficial vessels and nerves ; it passes freely over Poupart’s ligament, becoming continuous with the subcutaneous layer of the abdominal fascia, and internally it passes into the dartos tunic of the scrotum and into the * Dr. Gr. B. Duchenne, “Physiologie des Mouvements, &c.,” Paris, 1867.231 FASCIiE OF THE HIP AND THIGH. superficial fascia of the perineum. In the neighbourhood of the groin a thin layer of condensed areolar tissue, placed beneath the glands and superficial vessels, can be raised from the surface of the fascia lata, and this is sometimes described separately as a deep layer of superficial fascia. This structure is continued across the saphenous opening of the fascia lata, to the margins of which it is closely attached, and being here perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of blood-vessels and lymphatics, it receives the name of cribriform fascia. The deep fascia of the thigh or fascia lata is a strong aponeurotic membrane, consisting of white shining fibrous tissue, and forming a continuous sheath round the limb. It is attached superiorly to the back of the sacrum and coccyx, to the crest of the ilium, to Poupart’s liga- ment, to the body and ramus of the pubis, to the ramus and tuberosity of the ischium, and to the lower margin of the great sacro-sciatic liga- ment. In the gluteal region it descends on the surface of the gluteus medius muscle as far as the upper border of the gluteus maximus, where it divides into two layers, one of which passes on the superficial, the other on the deep surface of that muscle. After encasing the muscle, the layers unite at its lower and external borders. Over the great trochanter, where the layers unite externally, and where also the fascia is much thickened, the greater number of the fibres of the muscle are inserted between the layers. The thickened portion of the fascia may be traced downwards on the outside of the thigh, from the crest of the ilium to the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula. This ilio-tibial band consists of dense glistening parallel fibres, and about the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the thigh it receives also the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle. On the rest of the thigh the fascia lata varies in thickness. It is thinnest in the upper and inner part of the thigh, where it covers the adductor muscles. At the knee it is considerably strengthened on each side of the patella by tendinous expansions given off from the lower parts of the vasti muscles, and assists in forming the capsular investment of the joint. This part of the fascia is firmly attached to the head of the tibia and to the lateral margins of the patella, but a superficial layer is given off which extends over the front of the latter bone, a synovial bursa of considerable size being interposed. A second smaller bursa is placed immediately under the skin covering the patella, and the cavities of the two are sometimes continuous through an aperture in the aponeurosis. Other small bursae are not unffequently present over the patella or its ligament, or over the tubercle of the tibia. Posteriorly the fascia is continued uninterruptedly over the hamstring muscles and the popliteal space into the fascia of the leg. On the front of the thigh, a little below and external to the inner end of Poupart’s ligament, is placed the saphenous opening, an aperture in the fascia lata through which the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral vein, and which receives special attention from its being the place of exit of femoral hernia. The outer part of this opening lies in front of the femoral artery, and is bounded externally by a crescentic margin, the falciform border, which crosses the surface of the infundi- buliform sheath of the femoral vessels. This margin in the middle of its extent is continued into looser tissue, the above-mentioned cribriform fascia, but superiorly and inferiorly it ends in two more distinct in- curved extremities, the superior and inferior comua. The inferiorMUSCLES UE THE LOWER LIMB. 232 cornu, the most completely defined part of the margin, lies in the angle between the internal saphenous and the femoral veins, below their junction ; while the superior cornu forms a larger curve, the inner ex- tremity of which, often called femoral ligament, passing completely to the inner side of the femoral sheath, is attached to the front of Gimber- nat’s ligament. It is customary to call the parts of the fascia lata which are placed external and internal to the saphenous opening the iliac and pubic portions. The iliac portion is intimately connected above with Pou- part’s ligament, as well as with the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, and internally forms the falciform margin of the saphe- nous opening; the pubic portion, attached superiorly to the ilio-pectineal line, passes on its outer side deeply behind the sheath of the vessels, with which it is connected, and is continued into the iliac fascia to be subse- quently described. The fascia lata is perforated in many places by foramina, which allow the passage of the cutaneous nerves and blood-vessels. The fascia lata has various deep processes. One of these, leaving the main fascia at the insertion of the tensor vaginae femoris muscle, passes upwards on the inner side of that muscle as a strong flat band on the surface of the vastus externus, and is attached superiorly to the ilium above the origin of the posterior head of the rectus femoris, with which also it is closely connected. Two processes, the external and internal intermuscular septa, bind the fascia to the femur in the lower part of the thigh: the external septum, situated between the vastus externus and crureus in front and the short head of the biceps behind, is inserted into the linea aspera from the lower border of the tendon of the gluteus maximus to the outer condyle of the bone : the internal septum, which is much thinner, is inserted into the femur between the vastus interims and the adductor magnus, becoming blended with the tendinous attach- ments of those muscles. Sheath of the Femoral Vessels.—The femoral vessels are surrounded by an investment of fascia, which in its upper part is particularly dis- tinct and receives the name of the crural sheath. This sheath, com- mencing at the deep crural arch, is continuous with the transversalis fascia and iliac fascia of the cavity of the abdomen. Its outer border descends in contact with the artery, while its inner border is inclined outwards from the margin of Gimbernat’s ligament, and comes in con- tact with the vein at the distance of less than an inch lower down : the sheath is therefore funnel-shaped. It is divided into three compart- ments, separated by thin septa : the outermost contains the artery, the middle one the vein, and the innermost forms a space occupied at its upper end by the crural ring, and in which there is generally a lymphatic gland and some fat. Through this passage a femoral hernia descends, and on this account it has been named the femoral or crural canal. (See later, the special account of Hernia). MUSCLES OP THE HIP. The muscles of this region are the three glutei, the tensor vaginae femoris, the pyriformis, the obturator internus with the gemelli, the obturator externus, and the quadratus femoris. The gluteus maximus is a very large and coarsely fasciculated233 GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. muscle, quadrilateral in shape, which arises from the posterior fourth of the iliac crest, and from the rough surface of the ilium between the crest and the superior curved line ; from the back of the last two pieces of the sacrum and the first three pieces of the coccyx ; from the great Fig. 176.'—Superficial muscles of the hip Fig. 176. AND THIGH, SEEN FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) f 1, gluteus medius, covered by the fascia lata ; 2, gluteus maximus ; 2', lower part of the fas- cial insertion of the gluteus maximus ; 3, vastus externus ; 4, biceps flexor cruris ; 4', tendon of the biceps ; 5, 5', semitendinosus ; 6, 6, semi- membranosus ; 7, 7', gracilis ; 8, sartorius ; 9, adductor magnus ; 10, outer, and 11, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 12, placed in the popliteal space, points to the origin of the plantaris. sacro-sciatic ligament; and, between the sacrum and the ilium, from the aponeurosis of the erector spinse muscle. Thence it passes downwards and out- wards with parallel fibres. The whole of the upper half of the muscle, and the superficial fibres of the lower half are inserted into the strong fascia on the outer side of the thigh ; the deeper and larger portion of the lower half forms a flattened tendon which is at- tached to the gluteal ridge on the upper third of the shaft of the femur. Relations.—The lower border of the muscle lies in the fold of the nates. The deep sur- face rests on the gluteus medius and pyri- fonnis muscles, the tendon of the obturator internus with the two gemelli, the quad- ratus femoris, a small portion of the ad- ductor magnus, the great trochanter, the ischial tuberosity, and the origins of the hamstring muscles; it covers also the sciatic vessels and nerves as they emerge from the pelvis below the pyriformis, the superficial branch of the gluteal artery passing out above that muscle, and the pudic vessels and nerve lying behind the spine of the ischium. Between the fascial insertion of the muscle and the great trochanter is a large multilocular bursa, or there are sometimes two or three smaller ones, and another in- tervenes between it and the upper part of the vastus externus. The great size of the gluteus maximus, and the consequent prominence of the buttock, is a characteristic of man as com- pared with those animals which most nearly approach him in general structure. Varieties.—These are not frequent. The muscle has been seen receiving an additional fasciculus of origin from the lumbar aponeurosis, or joined at its lower border by a distinct slip from the lower part of the sacrum and coccyx, repre-234 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. seating the agitator caudae of the lower animals. The fibres arising from the sacro-sciatic ligament and the margin of the sacrum are normally separated by a ^ layer of areolar tissue from the superficial portion, and a powerful development of the deep part has given rise to the bilaminar condition described by Tiedemann and others (Henle). The gluteus medius muscle, covered partly by the gluteus maximus, partly by the fascia lata, arises from the surface of the ilium between the crest, the superior aud the middle curved lines, and in front of the gluteus maximus from the strong fascia covering its outer surface. The muscular fibres converge as they descend, the anterior fibres passing obliquely backwards, the posterior fibres obliquely forwards, and termi- nate in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into an oblique impression directed downwards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. The tendon is separated by a small bursa from the upper part of the trochanter. Fig. 177.—Deep muscles of the hip on THE LEFT SIDE, FROM BEHIND. 5 The gluteus maximus, and the muscles of the thigh have been removed. 1, 1, gluteus medius ; 2, pyriformis ; 3, gemellus supe- rior ; 4, gemellus inferior ; 5, obturator in- ternus, seen partially within the pelvis, and, after issuing by the small sciatic notch, between the gemelli muscles ; 6, quadratus femoris ; 7, tendon of the obturator exter- nus between the gemellus inferior and quad- ratus. Relations.—Between this muscle and the gluteus minimus are the superior gluteal nerve and the deep branches of the gluteal vessels. At its anterior border its fibres are parallel to and generally united with those of the gluteus minimus. This border also is overlapped by the tensor vaginae femoris. The posterior border is in contact with the pyriformis, the superficial part of the gluteal vessels passing between the two. Varieties.—Some of the deeper fibres of the muscle occasionally end in a sepa- rate tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the great trochanter. The posterior border of the muscle is sometimes closely united to the pyriformis, or some of the fibres end on the tendon of that muscle. A bursa is occasionally pre- sent between the tendon of this muscle and the pyriformis (1 in 15, Macalister). The gluteus minimus, (fig. 178, 1) covered by the preceding muscle, arises from the whole space on the ilium between the middle and inferior curved lines. The fibres, converging as they descend, terminate in an aponeurotic tendon on the outer surface of the muscle, which becoming narrowed is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter. The tendon is bound down to the prominence of the trochanter by a strong fibrous band which joins it from the upper margin of the capsule of the hip-joint. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the trochanter. Relations.—The anterior border of the muscle is in contact with that of the gluteus medius ; its deep surface with the capsule of the hip joint, and the pos- Fig. 177.235 MUSCLES OF THE HIP. tenor head of the rectus fern oris; its outer surface is covered by the gluteus rnedius, gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve; and its posterior border is covered by the pyriformis muscle. Varieties.—This muscle may be divided into an anterior and a posterior part, or it may send detached slips to the hip joint, to the pyriformis, to the gemellus superior, or to the outer part of the origin of the vastus externus (Macalister). The anterior fibres are occasionally separate, representing the scansorius muscle of apes. The tensor vaginse femoris or ilio-aponeurotic muscle (fig. 180, 5) arises by tendinous fibres from the external margin of the iliac crest at its fore part, and from part of the notch between the two anterior iliac spines external to the attachment of the sartorius, and by some fleshy fibres from the fascia covering the gluteus rnedius : passing downwards and a little outwards and backwards it is inserted between two laminae of the fascia lata, from three to four inches below the great trochanter of the femur. The outer of these lamina; is continued upwards on the muscle in its whole extent, being part of the general investment of the limb, the deeper is connected above with the origin of the rectus femoris, and with the fibres attaching the gluteus minimus to the hip-joint. The fibres in the fascia prolonged from the insertion of the muscle form part of the ilio-tibial band, ancl can be followed in this down to the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—This muscle lies upon the anterior border of the gluteus rnedius, the upper parts of the rectus femoris and vastus externus muscles, and the as- cending branches of the external circumflex artery. At its origin it lies between the sartorius and gluteus rnedius muscles. The pyriformis muscle arises within the pelvis by three fleshy digita- tions from the second, third and fourth pieces of the sacrum between and outside the anterior sacral foramina, slightly from the hinder border of the ilium immediately below the posterior inferior spine, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The muscle passes out of the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and is inserted into a mark on the upper border of the great trochanter by a rounded tendon which is closely united for some distance before its insertion to the subjacent tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. Relations.—Between the upper border of the muscle as it escapes from the pelvis and the bone the gluteal vessels and the superior gluteal nerve issue ; at its lower border, between it and the superior gemellus, the sciatic and pudic vessels and nerves make their appearance; its superficial surface is covered by the gluteus maximus; and its deep surface is separated by the hinder part of the gluteus minimus from the hip-joint. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently pierced by a root of the great sciatic nerve or by its external popliteal branch, and is thus divided more or less com- pletely into two parts. It may be united with the gluteus rnedius, or give fibres to the gluteus minimus, or receive the insertion of the superior gemellus. It may have only one or two sacral attachments, or again its tendon may be inserted into the capsule of the hip-joint. Its entire absence has also been noted. The obturator internus muscle, in great part lodged within the pelvis, arises from the deep surface of the obturator membrane except at its lower part; from the fibrous arch which completes the canal for the obturator vessels and nerve ; from the pelvic surface of the hip-bone, externally between the obturator foramen and the great sciatic notch, reaching up to the ilio-pectineal line, and internally between the foramen236 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. and the margin of the pubic arch ; a few fibres also arise from the obturator fascia, which is in contact with the deep surface of the muscle. Its fibres converging as they proceed backwards from this origin, the muscle emerges from the pelvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen, gliding over the trochlear surface of the ischium, and is directed outwards, to be inserted, in connection with the gemelli, into an im- pression on the fore part of the inner surface of the great trochanter. The tendon occupies the surface of the muscle which is towards the bone, and consists as it passes through the foramen of four or five narrow portions which, commencing independently in the substance of the pelvic portion of the muscle, receive the pinnately disposed fleshy fibres. A layer of cartilage lines the trochlear groove of the bone, and forms a series of ridges with intervening grooves corresponding to the divisions of the tendon, while the movement of the latter is facilitated by a large synovial bursa. Another bursa, of much smaller size, elongated and narrow, is sometimes placed between the tendon and the capsule of the hip-joint. These bursae are occasionally continuous with one another. Relations.—The deep surface of the pelvic portion is in contact with the obtu- rator portion of the pelvic fascia and near its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. The outer surface is in contact with the bone and obturator mem- brane. At its upper border the obturator vessels and nerve pass through the obturator foramen. The extrapelvic portion lies between the gemelli and in con- tact with the ischium and capsule of the hip-joint. It is covered by the great sacro-sciatic ligament, the sciatic vessels and nerves, and by the gluteus maximus. The gemelli (gemini) are two small narrow muscles, consisting chiefly of fleshy fibres extended horizontally on each side of the tendon of the obturator internus ; and they are named from their position above and below the tendon. The gemellus superior, which is usually the smaller muscle, arises from the outer and lower part of the ischial spine ; the gemellus inferior takes origin from the upper part of the tuberosity of the ischium, along the lower border of the groove for the obturator internus. Passing outwards, they join the tendon of the in- ternal obturator muscle, and are inserted with that into the great trochanter. The two muscles usually meet at their origin beneath the tendon of the obturator, while at their insertion they overlap and more or less conceal it. Relations.—The superior gemellus is placed immediately below the pyriformis ; the inferior gemellus is above the quadratus femoris, and at its insertion is close to the tendon of the obturator externus muscle. These muscles may be regarded as portions of the obturator internus arising externally to the pelvis. Varieties.— The gemellus superior is often very small, and not unfrequently is altogether absent. Absence of the gemellus inferior has also been observed, but more rarely than that of the upper muscle. The quadra-feus femoris muscle, of an oblong shape, arises from an impression along the outer border of the ischial tuberosity, and, pro- ceeding horizontally outwards, is inserted into the tubercle of the quad- ratus and the back of the femur immediately below this, reaching to the level of the small trochanter. Relations.—The upper border of this muscle is in contact with the inferior gemellus ; the lower with the adductor magnus, the transverse branch of the internal circumflex artery passing between the two. It conceals the outer part of237 MUSCLES OF THE HIP. the obturator externus, and also the lesser trochanter, which is separated from it by a snj.aH bursa. Varieties.—The quadratus femoris may be entirely absent and replaced by an enlarged gemellus inferior. The obturator externus muscle arises from the outer surface of the obturator membrane for the inner half of its extent, from the femoral surface of the body of the pubis, and from the rami of the pubis and ischium. The fibres converge as they are directed outwards in the groove between the acetabulum and the tuberosity of the ischium to the lower part of the hip-joint; then winding backwards and upwards, closely applied to the lower and hinder surfaces of the neck of the femur, they end in a tendon which is inserted into the bottom of the digital fossa of the great trochanter. Relations.—Tbe obturator externus is concealed in front by the pectineus, ilio- psoas, adductor brevis and adductor magnus muscles; near its insertion it is covered behind by the quadratus femoris : its deep surface is closely connected to the capsule of the hip as it passes backwards. The obturator vessels are placed between the muscle and the obturator membrane, and the superficial part of the obturator nerve passes above it while the deep part perforates it near its upper border. Nerves.—The gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve ; the gluteus medius and minimus and tensor vaginae femoris by the superior gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The obturator externus is supplied by the obturator nerve. Actions.—The gluteus maximus muscle is the chief extensor of the hip-joint. By its agency the bent thigh is brought into a line with the body. The lower part of the muscle also acts as an adductor, and external rotator of the limb, while the upper part will assist in producing abduction. Its most powerful action, and that in connection with which it is so largely developed in the human subject, is to extend the trunk upon the thigh when bent forwards. It also comes into operation in ascending an incline or a stair, in leaping, and in rising from the sitting posture. But although the full contraction of the glutei maximi is required to bring the body into the erect posture, it is not necessary for its maintenance when complete, the trunk being then supported on the thigh-bones by the tension of ligaments, while the body is so poised that its centre of gravity is placed slightly behind the vertical plane passing through the middle of the hip-joints (see p. 170). By means of its insertion into the Hio-tibial band of the fascia lata, which is attached below to the fore part of the outer tuberosity of the tibia, the gluteus maximus is farther enabled to exercise an influence upon the knee, steadying and supporting that joint in the extended position during standing, when the proper extensor muscles are relaxed. The gluteus medius and minimus are powerful abductors of the thigh, and along with the tensor vaginas femoris, come principally into action in supporting the body on one limb, and in the rotation of the pelvis on the two limbs alter- nately which takes place in walking. Their anterior fibres draw forwards the great trochanter, and rotate the limb inwards, while the posterior part of the minimus produces outward rotation. The tensor xagince femoris aids the gluteus medius and minimus in rotating in- wards and abducting the limb, in the latter case being combined in its action with the upper part of the gluteus maximus. Owing to its mode of insertion, moreover, it will assist the gluteus maximus in supporting the knee in the extended position, counteracting the tendency of that muscle to draw the ilio- tibial band backwards and thus ensuring that the traction is exercised upon the tibia in the direct line of the thigh. The pyriformis, obturator interims, and gemelli muscles support the hip-joint posteriorly, and rotate the limb outwards when it is extended, but become ab-238 MUSCLES OF TIIE LOWER LIMB. ductors when the Rip is flexed. TAe quadratus fnmoris rotates tRe thigh outwards and assists in adducting. TRe obturator externns is also principally an external rotator, but it is farther a flexor and adductor of tRe tRigR, bringing the’>upper- most of tlie two limbs into position when we cross the tRigRs in sitting. It supports tRe Rip-joint posteriorly and inferiorly. POSTERIOR FEMORAL OR HAMSTRING MUSCLES. At the back of the thigh are three long flexor muscles of the knee- joint ; viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus. The biceps flexor cruris muscle consists of two parts, arising one from the hip-bone, the other from the femur, which unite inferiorly to terminate on the fibula. The long head arises by a tendon common to it and the semitendinosus from the inner impression on the upper part of the ischial tuberosity, receiving also some fibres from the great sacro-sciatic ligament; the short head arises from the outer lip of the linea aspera in its whole extent, from the upper two-thirds of the external supracondylar line, and from the adjacent external inter- muscular septum. The muscular fibres from both heads end in a common tendon, which is inserted into the upper and outer part of the head of the fibula by two portions, which embrace the external lateral ligament of the knee-joint. Some of the fibres of the tendon, passing forwards and inwards, are inserted into the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and from the posterior border others are given off to the fascia of the leg. Relations.—TRe upper end of tlie biceps is covered by the gluteus maximus; in the rest of its extent the muscle is subcutaneous. It lies upon the semimem- branosus, the great sciatic nerve, and the adductor magnus; its inner border is in contact with the semitendinosus and semimembranosus, and at its lower end it forms the upper and outer boundary of the popliteal space. A bursa is gene- rally present between the tendon and the external lateral ligament, and there is sometimes another between the long Read and the origin of the semimembranosus. Varieties.—TRe short head may be absent, or there may be an additional head arising from the ischial tuberosity, or from the linea aspera, or from the inner supra- condylar ridge of the femur, or from various other parts. A slip has been found passing from the long head to the gastrocnemius or the tendo Achillis. The semitendinosus muscle, closely united at its origin with the long head of the biceps, arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, and from the tendon common to it with the biceps for about three inches; it descends on the back of the thigh, and terminates in the lower third in a long, rounded, and slender tendon, which passes along the inner side of the popliteal space, resting on the semimembranosus, and curves forwards to be inserted in an expanded form into the upper part of the inner surface of the tibia, a considerable process being sent from its lower border to the fascia of the leg. There the tendon is on the same plane with, but below that of the gracilis, both being under cover of the sartorius, and a bursa separates the three tendons from the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The belly of the muscle is traversed about its middle by a thin oblique tendinous intersection. The semimembranosus muscle arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outside of the origin of the biceps and semi- tendinosus, by a strong flattened tendon which is grooved on its posterior surface for the reception of the common tendon of those two muscles. The tendon of origin is prolonged downwards on the outer side of the muscle forSEMIMEMBRANOSUS MUSCLE. 239 three-fourths of the length of the thigh ; from it spring numerous short fleshy fibres which are directed obliquely downwards and inwards, forming a thick fusiform belly, and terminate upon the tendon of insertion on the Fig. 178. Fig. 178.—Deep muscles op the right dip AND THIGH, FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) £ a, anterior, a', posterior superior spine of the ilium ; b\ posterior inferior spine ; c, c, great and small trochanters ; d, symphisis pubis; e, ischial tuberosity ; f, popliteal surface of femur; ff, head of fibula; 1, gluteus minimus ; 2, ob- turator internus : the gemelli have been re- moved ; 3, obturator externus ; 4, small part of the back of the pectineus and adductor brevis ; 5, origin of the adductor magnus from the lower part of the ischial tuberosity ; 5', 5', line of in- sertion of this muscle on the shaft of the femur, in which are seen three arched tendinous inter- vals for the passage of the perforating vessels ; 5", tendon of insertion into the adductor tu- bercle ; between the lower 5' and 5", the interval through which the femoral vessels pass into the popliteal space ; the upper 5' is placed upon the cut end of the quadratus femoris ; 6, vastus ex- ternus ; 7, vastus internus ; 8, femoral head of the biceps; 8', its ischial head, cut short; 9, plantaris muscle: at its upper end the outer head of the gastrocnemius; the figure 5", is upon the cut inner head ; 10, popliteus ; 11, tendon of the semimembranosus ; 12, upper part of the soleus. •opposite border of the muscle. The lower tendon makes its appearance about the middle of the thigh, becomes free from muscular fibres at the level of the knee, and, turning somewhat forwards, is inserted mainly into the lower part of the horizontal groove on the back of the inner tuberosity of the tibia. One considerable expansion is sent upwards and outwards to the pos- terior ligament of the knee-joint (see p. 173), another is continued down- wards to the fascia covering the popli- teus muscle, and a few fibres join the internal lateral ligament of the joint. Relations.—At its upper part the semi- membranosus crosses obliquely from without inwards beneath the conjoined biceps and semitendinosus, and the latter muscle lies upon it in its whole length. Its deep sur- face rests upon the adductor magnus, and the great sciatic nerve lies along its outer border. Between the lower tendon and the inner head of the gastrocnemius is a large bursa which generally communicates with the cavity of the knee-joint, and a second smaller one separates the main portion of the tendon from the promi- nent upper margin of the groove on the tibia.240 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. The hamstring muscles descend for the greatest part of their length in contact with one another, being bound down by the fascia lata; but interiorly they diverge, the biceps passing to the outside, and the semimembranosus and semi- tendinosus to the inner side of the knee, forming the superior borders of a diamond-shaped hollow at the back of the knee —the popliteal space—the inferior margins of which are formed by the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. Varieties.—Absence of the semimembranosus muscle has been observed. It has also been found double, or with its origin for the most part from the great sacro- sciatic ligament. Nerves.—These muscles are all supplied by the great sciatic nerve. Actions.—The hamstring muscles flex the knee, and when that joint is bent they can rotate the tibia—the biceps outwards, the semitendinosus and, to a less extent, the semimembranosus inwards. They are farther powerful extensors of the hip, and by their position they set a limit to flexion of that joint so long as the knee is extended. ANTERIOR MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. The ilio-psoas muscle, the great flexor of the hip-joint, is divisible into two parts, a broad outer part, the iliacus, and an elongated inner part, the psoas magnus, which are sometimes described separately as two muscles. The greater part of the muscle is situated in the abdomen, only the lower conjoined portion appearing below Poupart’s ligament in the thigh. Its action, however, being almost exclusively upon the hip- joint, it is most conveniently considered in this place. The iliacus arises from the upper half of the iliac fossa of the hip-bone, anteriorly reaching down to the inferior spine, and posteriorly receiving a few fibres also from the ala of the sacrum and the ligament connecting the two bones. Its fibres converge as they pass downwards and inwards and are inserted for the most part into the tendon of the psoas; the outermost, however, pass directly to a special triangular surface on the upper part of the femur, in front of and below the small trochanter. The psoas magnus arises by five fleshy slips from the anterior surface and lower margin of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae ; also from the bodies of the vertebrae by a series of thick processes, each of which takes origin from an intervertebral disc, and from the contiguous margins of two bodies, the highest being attached to the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and the lowest to the fourth and fifth lumbar ver- tebrae with the intervertebral substance between them. These attach- ments are connected by thin tendinous arches extending over the middle of each vertebra, covering the lumbar vessels and communicating branches of the sympathetic nerve, and giving origin to other muscular fibres. The various bundles of fibres speedily unite to form a thick elongated muscle, which runs along the brim of the pelvis, and emerging from the abdomen beneath Poupart’s ligament is inserted into the small trochanter of the femur by means of a tendon, which is placed at first within the substance of the muscle, and afterwards at its outer side, receiving as it descends the fibres of the iliacus as well as those of the psoas. Eolations.—Both iliacus and psoas are covered in the abdomen by the iliac fascia, which is also prolonged downwards over the conjoined muscle into the upper part of the thigh, where it becomes continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The psoas at its upper extremity is placed behind the diaphragm, being crossed by the internal arched ligament. The external iliac artery rests against its inner border along the brim of the pelvis, but lies over the muscle as it enters the thigh. The lumbar plexus of nerves is imbedded deeply in the substance of the psoas, and its branches issue from the muscle at various points. The anterior241 ILIO-PSOAS MUSCLE. crural nerve passes into the thigh lying in the groove between the psoas and iliacus, and the ilio-inguinal and external cutaneous nerves cross the surface of the iliacus. The iliacus lies over the ilium, the anterior head of the rectus femoris, and the hip-joint, to the capsule of which a few of its fibres are some- Fig. 179. Fig. 179.—Deep muscles of the abdomen and pelvis. (A. T.) } a, twelfth dorsal vertebra ; h, fifth lumbar vertebra ; c, transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra ; 1, quadratus lumborum muscle ; on the left side its fibres of origin from the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras are shown by the removal of the psoas ; 2, placed upon one of the intertransversales muscles of the left side ; 3, upper part of the psoas parvus, drawn somewhat to the outer side ; 3', insertion of its tendon into the brim of the pelvis ; 4, upper part of the psoas magnus ; 4", one of the origins of the muscle; 4', insertion of the muscle into the small trochanter of the femur; 5, iliacus; , 5', insertion of the outer fibres of the iliacus below the small trochanter ; 6, pyriformis. muscle of the left side rising within the pelvis from the sacrum ; S', insertion of its tendon into the summit of the great trochanter ; 7, obturator externus of the left side ; + 4-, crura of the diaphragm. times attached. The psoas rests against the vertebrae, the quadratus lumborum, and the brim of the pelvis, overlapping also the inner border of the iliacus. The common tendon passes downwards in a deep groove between the anterior inferior 1 spine and the ilio-pectineal eminence, and lower down, between the tendon and the capsule of the hip, is a large synovial bursa which sometimes communicates with the cavity of the joint. Varieties.—The iliacus minor or ilio-capsularis is a small detached portion of ; the iliacus which is frequently present. It arises from the anterior inferior spine VOL. I. KMUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 242 of tlie ilium, and is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or into the ilio-femoral ligament. The psoas par vus, a small muscle placed on the surface of the psoas magnus, arises from the bodies of the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, and from the disc between them, and soon ends in a flat tendon, which passes along the front and the inner side of the psoas magnus, being incorporated with the iliac fascia, and is inserted into the ilio-pectineal line and eminence. This muscle, although it is well developed and constant in animals generally, is very inconstant in the human subject. Out of 450 bodies examined by Gruber it was absent on both sides in 183, on one side only in 69. When present, it is liable to many changes in the place of origin ; thus, it may be connected only with the first lumbar vertebra, or with the second and the intervertebral substance above it, and it has been observed to commence by two parts or heads separated by an interval. The sartorius muscle is very long, narrow, and ribbon-shaped, and has the longest fibres of all the muscles of the body. It arises by a short tendon from the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and from a small part of the anterior margin of that bone immediately below, and, passing downwards and inwards across the front of the thigh, it is inserted by a thin flattened tendon into a slight roughness on the inner side of the tibia near the tubercle, sending off one aponeurotic expansion from its upper border to the capsule of the knee-joint, and another from its lower border to the fascia of the leg. Relations.—In this long course the sartorius is directed obliquely inwards over the anterior part of the thigh in the upper half, and then nearly vertically on the inner aspect of the limb as far as the knee : below this it curves forwards to its place of attachment. The muscle is covered only by the fascia lata and the integument. It passes over the iliacus and rectus femoris muscles, the anterior crural nerve and femoral vessels, the pectineus, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, and vastus intemus muscles. The tendon of insertion covers those of the gracilis and semitendinosus, being separated from them, however, by a pro- longation of the bursa which is interposed between these tendons and the in- ternal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The inner border of this muscle and the most projecting part of the adductor longus form the sides, and Poupart’s ligament forms the base, of a triangular space in the upper third of the thigh, through the middle of which the femoral artery passes. This usually receives the name of Scarpa’s triangle. Varieties.—The sartorius has in several instances been found divided into two parts similarly attached ; or the accessory portion is inserted into the femur or ligament of the patella, or into the tendon of the normal one. The tendon of insertion has been found to end in the fascia lata or in the capsule of the knee- joint. A tendinous intersection has been seen in rare cases. Total absence of the muscle has also been noted. The quadriceps extensor cruris, the extensor muscle of the knee, is divisible into four parts, one of which, the rectus femoris, descends from the hip-bone and is distinct to its insertion, while the other three, viz., the vastus externus, vastus interims, and crureus, are more or less closely united together, and cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the thigh-bone, from which they arise. a. The rectus femoris is spindle-shaped, and extends in a straight line from the pelvis to the patella. It arises from the ilium by two tendi- nous heads, the anterior of which is attached to the anterior inferior spine, and the posterior to the impression on the outer surface of the bone immediately above the acetabulum. The two join at a rightQUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. 243 angle close below the margin of the acetabulum, and form a tendon which is prolonged on the anterior surface, and then in the centre of the muscular mass, to beyond the middle of the thigh. From this the fleshy fibres spring pinnately, and, passing downwards and backwards as they diverge, they end on the inferior tendon which extends over the lower half of the posterior surface of the belly. The lower tendon becomes Fig. 180.—Superficial muscles of the FRONT OF THE THIGH. (A. T.) £ a, anterior superior spine of the ilium ; b’ symphysis pubis ; c, patella ; d, tubercle of the tibia ; 1, insertion of the external oblique muscle into the iliac crest; 2, its aponeurosis > 3, external abdominal ring ; 4, gluteus me- dius ; 5, tensor vaginae femoris at the place of its insertion into the ilio-tibial band, which has been removed between 5 and 5', where it is seen descending to be attached to the tibia ; 6, sartorius ; 6', its insertion ; 7, ilio-psoas ; S, pectineus; 9, adductor longus ; 10, gra- cilis ; 11, part of adductor magnus ; 12, vastus externus; 13, rectus femoris; 14, vastus in- ternus ; 15, biceps flexor cruris. free about three inches above the patella, and forms a flat band which is attached to the upper border of that bone, being joined with the tendons of the deeper portions of the quadriceps, and forming with them the common tendon of insertion. b. The vastus externus has a narrow origin from the femur, along the upper half of the anterior intertro- chanteric line, the fore and outer parts of the root of the great tro- chanter, the outer side of the gluteal ridge and the upper half of the linea aspera, and to a slight extent also from the external intermuscular sep- tum. The origin takes place fur the most part by a strong aponeurosis, which extends over the surface of the muscle for the upper two-thirds of its length. The fleshy fibres spring from this aponeurosis, and some deeper ones also from the bone immediately beneath it, and are directed downwards and forwards to end on the aponeurosis of insertion, which occupies the deep surface and anterior border of the mass in its lower half, and is continued down to the outer part of the upper border of the patella, joining the other portions in the common tendon, and sending also an expansion downwards to the capsule of the knee-joint. A few of the superficial fibres join the outer border of the rectus tendon.244 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. and its deep surface is connected to a greater or less extent with the sub- jacent crureus, especially in its lower part. c and d. The remaining portions of the muscle, viz., the vastus internus and crureus, appear at first sight to be inseparably united and Fi<r. 181. Fig. 181.—Deep muscles of the front of THE THIGH. (A. T.) 4 a, anterior superior, and b, anterior inferior spine of the ilium ; e, great trochanter; d, symphysis pubis ; e, patella ; /, inner side of the knee-joint; g, head of the fibula; 1, gluteus medius; 2, gluteus minimus; 3, upper tendon of the rectus, dividing into its two portions ; 4, points to the cut tendon of insertion of the ilio-psoas muscle ; 5, part of the obturator externus and quadratus femoris; 6, pectineus ; 7, part of the adductor brevis; 8, adductor magnus ; 9, vastus internus ; 10, crureus; 11, vastus externus; 12, lower tendon of the rectus ; 13, lower part of the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata. to form one mass. If, however, the rectus tendon be turned well down- wards, there will come into view, above the patella, a narrow interval which can be followed up between the two tendons in the direction of a line from the inner part of the patella to the lower end of the anterior intertro- chanteric line of the femur, and the two portions can thus be separated, although their fleshy fibres are usually continuous above. The vastus inter- nus, like the vastus externus, has a narrow origin from the femur, by a superficial aponeurosis and deeper fleshy fibres, along the inner lip of the linea aspera and the line conti- nued upwards from that, while in the lower half numerous fibres arise from the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus. The muscular fibres are directed downwards and forwards, and end mostly on a deep aponeurosis which forms below the innermost part of the common tendon ; the lower fibres, however, which pass inwards more obliquely than the upper ones, end by being inserted, shortly tendinous, into the inner margin of the patella for its upper half. A few superficial fibres also join the adjacent margin of the rectus tendon, and from its lower border an ex- pansion is given off to the capsule of the knee. The crureus has a fleshy origin from the anterior surface of the femur245 QUADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS. for its upper two-tliirds, from the outer surface of the bone, in front of and below the attachment of the vastus externus, and from the lower half of the external intermuscular septum. The fibres are directed downwards, those of the outer and lower part also considerably forwards, and they end on a superficial aponeurotic lamina which forms the deeper portion of the common tendon. The crureus consists of four or five superposed fleshy layers, the origins of which form a series of transverse arches with intervening bare spaces on the front of the femur; and between this portion of the muscle and the vastus internus the greater part of the internal surface of the bone is also free from muscular attach- ment.* The common tendon, in which the four portions of the quadriceps muscle terminate below, is broad and flat, and is inserted into the fore part of the upper border of the patella, a few fibres being prolonged over the anterior surface of the bone into the superficial portion of the ligamentum patellae. Subcrureus. This name is given to one or two thin bands of muscular fibres which might be regarded as the deepest layer of the crureus. It arises from the lower part of the anterior surface of the femur, and is inserted below by scattered fibres into the upper part of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Eolations.—The rectus is covered at its upper end by the tensor vaginse femoris, iliacus and sartorius muscles, and the acetabular tendon lies beneath the gluteus minimus. In the rest of its extent it is covered only by fascia. It rests upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, and the deep portions of the quadriceps : behind it pass also the external circumflex artery and branches of the anterior crural nerve. The vastus externus forms the large mass on the outer side of the thigh. It is covered by the fascia lata and the aponeurotic insertions of the gluteus maximus and tensor vaginse femoris, and its anterior border is concealed by the rectus. It rests upon the crureus, and the branches of the external cir- cumflex artery and anterior crural nerve entering it pass between the two. The vastus internus is partly covered by the sartorius and rectus; between these muscles it is superficial, forming the prominence at the lower part of the inner side of the thigh. The crureus is almost completely covered by the rectus and vasti, only a small portion being superficial on the outer side, behind the free posterior border of the vastus externus. Beneath the common tendon is a bursa which communicates in most cases with the cavity of the knee-joint. Varieties.—The parts of the quadriceps muscle are not liable to many anoma- lies. The rectus has been found with an additional origin from the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; or, again, its acetabular origin may be wanting. The vasti muscles are sometimes bilaminar, a condition which is normal in many birds. The subcrureus frequently consist of two separate bundles. Nerves.—The psoas magnus receives small branches from the lumbar plexus. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor cruris and sartorius are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. Actions.—The ilio-psoas muscle, the flexor of the hip-joint, bends the thigh on the body, or the body on the thigh, according as either of these is the more fixed. The psoas also assists in bending the lumbar portion of the spine, either forwards or laterally. The sartorius produces flexion of the hip and knee-joints, accompanied by eversion of the thigh : it also assists in rotating inwards the leg. It has been supposed to be the muscle principally concerned in producing the posture assumed by the tailor in sitting, and hence its name ; but Duchenne denies that this is its special action. * A detailed and accurate description of the anatomy of the quadriceps extensor muscle is given by W. R. Williams, Journ. Anat. xiii. 204.MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 246 The quadriceps extensor cruris extends the knee-joint ; but its action is not requisite for the maintenance of the erect attitude (see p. 176), the knee-joint remaining in complete extension without muscular aid while the foot is firmly planted on the ground. This may be tested by the fact that the patella of a person standing with the knee extended will be found to lie quite loosely, but will become at once fixed when an attempt is made to lift the foot. The rectus femoris, besides extending the knee, also flexes the hip : it acts mainly from its anterior head of origin when the thigh is fully extended, and the posterior head alone is tense when the thigh is bent. INTERNAL FEMOEAL OR ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. The gracilis or adductor gracilis muscle, long and slender, arises by an aponeurotic tendon from the inner margin of the pubic bone, along the lower half of the symphysis and the upper half of the pubic arch. Thin and flat at first, the muscle becomes narrower and thicker as it descends ; and in the lower third of the thigh it ends in a rounded tendon which curves forwards below the knee, and, becoming flattened and expanded, is inserted into the inner side of the tibia, on the same plane with but higher than the semitendinosus, and under cover of the tendon of the sartorius. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, except where its tendon is overlapped by the sartorius ; the deep surface rests against the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, and the tendon crosses the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. A bursa separates it from that ligament. The pectineus muscle, flat and oblong, arises from the ilio-pectineal line, and slightly from the surface of bone in front of it, between the ilio-pectineal eminence and the pubic spine ; a few superficial fibres spring also from the upper part of the fascia covering the muscle. Inclining outwards and backwards as it descends, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the femur behind the small trochanter, and into the upper part of the line which connects the linea aspera with that prominence. Relations.—The pectineus is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata and the femoral vessels ; by the posterior surface, with the obturator nerve, and the external obturator and adductor brevis muscles. Its outer border is in contact with the psoas magnus, and the internal circumflex vessels pass between the two ; its inner border touches the adductor longus. The adductor longus, a flat triangular muscle, internal to the pec- tincus, and lying in the same plane, arises by a short tendon from the body of the pubis below the crest and near the angle, and is inserted into the inner margin of the linea aspera, by an aponeurotic tendon which is closely united to the vastus internus in front and the adductor magnus behind. Relations.—This muscle is covered by the fascia lata, the sartorius, and the femoral vessels ; the posterior surface rests on the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, the deep femoral artery and the superficial portion of the obturator nerve. The outer border touches the pectineus above, but is separated from it by a small interval below; the inner border is in apposition with the gracilis and forms the inner boundary of Scarpa’s triangle. The adductor brevis, thick above and broad below, has a fleshy and tendinous origin, from the femoral surface of the body and inferior247 INTERNAL FEMORAL OR ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. ramus of the pubis, below the adductor longus and between the gracilis and obturator externus ; directed obliquely backwards and outwards, it is inserted by a flat tendon into the whole of the line leading from the Fig. 1S2.—Muscles of the inner side Fig. 182. OF THE THIGH AND INTERIOR OF THE PELVIS. (A. T.) 5 1, iliacus ; 2, psoas magnus ; 3, obtu- rator interims, with, its fibres converging towards the small sacro-sciatie foramen ; 4, pyriformis, with three heads of origin, and its fibres converging towards the great sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5, lumbar aponeurosis covering the erector spirits muscle ; 6, gluteus maximus ; 7, sarto- rius ; T, its tendon inserted below the tuberosity of the tibia; 8, adductor longus ; 9, gracilis, 9', its tendon passing under that of the sartorius; 10, part of the adductor magnus; 11, semimembra- nosus ; 12, semitendinosus, 12', its in- sertion, and between 9' and 12', the tendon of the semimembranosus passing to its insertion on the inner tuberosity of the tibia. small trochanter of the femur to the linea aspera,_ immediately be- hind the insertion of the pectineus. Relations.—The adductor brevis is concealed at its origin by the ad- ductor longus and at its insertion in part by the pectineus; it is crossed by the superficial division of the ob- turator nerve, and by the deep femoral artery ; it rests on the adductor mag- nus and deep division of the obtu- rator nerve, and by its deep surface is in contact superiorly with the ob- turator externus, the internal circum- flex artery passing between. The adductor magnus muscle (fig. 178) arises slightly from the lower part of the body of the pubis external to the origin of the adductor brevis, from the inner margin of the pubic arch in its whole length, and from the lower portion of the tuberosity of the ischium. The muscular fibres diverge from their origin, some- what like the ribs of a fan from their central pivot: those from the body of the pubis and the pubic arch, pass outwards, the upper ones transversely, the succeeding ones becoming longer and directed with increasing degrees of obliquity downwards, and form a flattened layer which is inserted into the back of the femurMUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 248 internal to the gluteal ridge, into the whole length of the linea aspera, and into the internal supracondylar line for about an inch. The posterior fibres, which arise from the ischial tuberosity, descend almost vertically, forming the thick inner border of the muscle, and terminate in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the adductor tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur. Along the femoral attachment the insertion is interrupted by three or more tendinous arches through which pass the perforating arteries, and below the level of the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, between the two portions of the insertion of the muscle, an interval is left for the passage of the femoral vessels backwards into the popliteal space. Extending upwards from the opening for the femoral vessels, is an aponeurotic membrane which consists of transverse fibres passing from the surface of the vastus internus to the adductor magnus and adductor longus muscles. It becomes thinner as it ascends, and encloses a three- sided passage called Hunter's canal, which contains the femoral artery and vein, together with the internal saphenous nerve. Relations.—This muscle is in contact in front with the long and short adductors, the vastus internus, the obturator nerve, and the profunda artery, behind with the hamstring muscles, gluteus maximus, and great sciatic nerve, internally with the gracilis muscle, superiorly with the obturator externus and quadratus femoris muscles, and along the line of attachment to the femur it is pierced by the femoral and perforating arteries. Varieties.—The adductor muscles are so closely related that their varieties may be conveniently considered together. The pectineus is sometimes divided more or less completely into two parts, which receive their nerves from different sources, viz., the inner from the obturator, and the outer from the anterior crural. This division occurs naturally in many animals. The muscle has also been seen attached to the capsule of the hip-joint, or even inserted into it. The adductor longus may be double, or it may extend as far as the knee with its tendon of insertion inseparable from that of the adductor magnus. Its outer border may be continuous with, or receive a slip from, the adjacent edge of the pectineus. The adductor brevis is frequently found divided into two or three parts, or it may be incorporated with the adductor magnus. The adductor magnus varies in the de- gree of its segmentation. Its condylar part has been found quite distinct from the rest of the muscle. Its upper part, reaching down to about the middle of the linea aspera, is so frequently divided from the rest that it is looked upon by some anatomists as a special muscle, being called the adductor minimus (Henle, Gunther, Macalister). On the other hand, the muscle has been found with its upper part completely united to the quadratus femoris (Macalister). Nerves.—The adductor muscles as a whole are supplied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic, and the pectineus has regularly a branch from the anterior crural, whilst its offset from the obturator nerve is inconstant. Actions.—All of these muscles adduct the thigh. In addition to this action, the pectineus, adductor longus and adductor brevis are accessory flexors of the hip, while the strong part of the adductor magnus springing from the ischial tuberosity aids in extending that joint. The gracilis also flexes the knee and rotates the leg inwards. The adductors, acting with their opponents the gluteal muscles, balance the body upon the femur in walking-, and the adductor magnus supports the pelvis and steadies the hip-joint in standing. MUSCLES AND FASCI.S3 OF THE LEG. E Asciis.—The aponeurosis of the leg invests the muscles closely, but is not continued over the subcutaneous surfaces of the bones. It is thus intimately united with the periosteum over the head and theFASCIA OF THE LEG. 249 anterior and inner borders of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the inner and outer malleoli. It is thicker on the front of the leg than behind, especially at the upper part, where it is very dense and gives origin to the subjacent muscles. Posteriorly it is continuous with th? fascia lata on the back of the thigh, and near the knee it receives accessions from the tendons of the biceps externally, and the sartorius, gracilis, and semitendinosus internally. Over the popliteal space it consists of strong transverse fibres, which bind together the muscles of the outer and inner sides, and it is perforated at the lower part of the space by the external saphenous vein ; lower down it becomes much thinner over the gastrocnemius muscle. From the deep surface of the fascia intermuscular septa are sent inwards, and give origin to the adjacent muscles : on the outer side two of these pass inwards to be attached to the anterior and external borders of the fibula, and thus separate the peroneal muscles from those of the front and back of the leg respectively ; and in front there is one septum, confined to the upper third of the leg, between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum muscles. Beneath the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles on the back of the leg, a deep layer of fascia is stretched from side to side, binding down the deeper muscles firmly in the hollow between the tibia and fibula. Where it is covered by the soleus and gastrocnemius, this fascia is weak, but it becomes stronger as it escapes from under cover of those muscles and approaches the malleoli. Below the ankle the deep fascia of the leg becomes continuous with that of the foot. In front, and on the sides of that joint, it is strengthened by broad bands of fibres, which are called annular liga- ments, and serve to confine the tendons in their positions. The anterior annular ligament includes two structures, one placed at the lower part of the leg, the other opposite the bend of the ankle. The upper land, of considerable breadth, stretches transversely from the anterior border of the fibula to the corresponding part of the tibia, and binds down the vertical portion of the extensor tendons as they de- scend to the foot: the tendon of the tibialis anticus alone has a synovial sheath under this part of the ligament. The lower land presents superficially the appearance of the letter placed thus upon its side, being single in its outer half, and divided into two branches internally. The outer portion springs from the fore part of the os calcis, immediately in front of the interosseous ligament, and forms a strong loop which completely surrounds the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum muscles. From the extremity of the loop the fibres are continued into the two branches, which are, however, less regular in their arrangement: the strongest and most constant band , passes to the internal malleolus, crossing over the extensor hallucis, and on the deep surface of the tibialis anticus tendon, only a few fibres passing superficially to the latter ; while the lower band, after crossing both those tendons, is inserted on the inner side of the foot into the fascia of the sole. The tendons are surrounded by three synovial sheaths under this part of the ligament: one is common to the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum ; the second invests the extensor proprius hallucis ; and the third, on the tibialis anticus, is continuous with that under the upper band of the ligament. The internal annular ligament crosses the space between theMUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 250 inner ankle and the heel, through which the tendons of the flexor muscles run. Its upper border, continuous with the fascia of the leg (more especially the intermuscular layer), is very imperfectly defined ; and its lower border, giving origin to many fibres of the abductor hallucis, is but little more distinct. Its anterior extremity is attached to the inner malleolus, and its posterior to the inner side of the calcaneum ; but between these two points it arches over several osseous grooves so as to form canals for the passage of tendons. The first canal (next to the malleolus) contains the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and the second that of the flexor longus digitorum, each being provided with a synovial lining. Then follows a wider space for the passage of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Lastly a fourth canal upon the astragalus, 1 ined like the first two by a synovial bursa, transmits the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. The external annular ligament extends from the point of the outer malleolus, to the outer side of the calcaneum, and keeps in place the tendons of the long and short peroneal muscles. The tendons are close together, and are surrounded by one synovial sac. Muscles.—The muscles of this part are divided naturally into three groups, which occupy respectively the front, the outer side, and the back of the leg. ANTERIOR REGION. Between the tibia and fibula, and on the front of the leg, are placed four muscles—the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius. The tibialis anticus arises from the lower part of the external tuberosity of the tibia, and from the upper half of the outer surface of that bone ; from the adjoining portion of the interosseous membrane ; from the strong fascia of the leg ; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the extensor longus digitorum. The tendon glides in a synovial sheath beneath the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into a rounded mark on the inner and lower part of the internal cunei- form and into the contiguous extremity of the first metatarsal bone, dividing slightly into two slips as it descends. Halations.—This muscle lies immediately under the aponeurosis of the leg. It rests upon the tibia, and the interosseous membrane. Its outer surface is in contact with the extensor longus digitorum, the extensor proprius hallucis, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Its tendon passes over the lower end of the tibia, the ankle-joint, and the inner surface of the tarsus. A small bursa is fre- quently placed under it close to its insertion. Varieties.—In cases of talipes the tendon of this muscle has been found split into two, one half going to the usual place of insertion, the other to the astra- galus or first metatarsal bone ; the whole tendon has also been seen inserted into the plantar fascia. The tibio-fascialis anticus is a small muscle described by Wood, arising from the lower third of the anterior edge of the tibia over the tibialis anticus, and inserted into the annular ligament and deep fascia. It may also exist as a tendinous slip from the tibialis anticus. The extensor proprius hallucis muscle (extensor proprius pollicis pedis), placed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, arises from the middle two-fourtlis of the narrow anterior surface of the fibula, and from the contiguous portion of the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct compartment in theEXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. 251 lower portion of the annular ligament and along the dorsum of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. An expansion given oft from the tendon on each side spreads over the joint between the metatarsal bone and the first phalanx. Fig. 1S3 Muscles of the leg and Fotfr from before. (A. T.) J 1, tendon, of the rectus femoris ; 1', ligamentum patella?; 2, vastus internus; 3, vastus externus; 4, sartorius ; 5, ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata; 6, inner bead of the gastrocnemius ; 7, inner part of the soleus ; 8, tibialis aDticus ; 8', its tendon near its insertion ; 9, extensor proprius hallucis ; 9', its tendon ; 10, extensor longus digitorum ; 10', lower band of the anterior annular ligament; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis ; 13, peroneus tertius ; 13', its tendon at its insertion; 14, origin of the extensor brevis digitorum, the first head of which is seen passing to the great toe near the line from 9'. Relations.—This muscle is partly concealed by those between which it is placed. It lies external to the anterior tibial artery at its origin, but crosses in front of that vessel in the lower third of the leg', and is internal to it on the foot. Varieties.—The extensor ossis metatarsi hallucis is a small muscle, sometimes found as a slip from the extensor proprius, or from the tibialis anticus, or from the extensor communis digitorum ; or it may be a distinct muscle arising close to the ex- tensor proprius, and traversing the same compart- ment of the annular ligament with that muscle. The extensor primi internodii hallucis, another occasional muscle, is nearly always an offshoot from the extensor proprius, though it has been found separate. It was seen by Wood in one half of the subjects examined by him. Fig. 183. ; I I 'mi i'ii'lf// 12- 13- 14 13- The extensor longus digitorum pedis arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and the anterior sur- face of the fibula for about three-fourths of its length, in front of the extensor hallucis; from a small part of the interosseous mem- brane at its upper part ; also from the apo- neurotic septa intervening between it and the muscles on each side, and from the fascia of the leg. The muscle ends in four tendons, which descend through the lower part of the annular ligament, in the same sheath as the peroneus tertius, and on the dorsum of the foot pass respectively to the four outer toes. The three inner tendons are each joined at the outer side, on the first phalanx, by a tendon from the extensor brevis digitorum. All the four tendons are continued into expansions, which are joined on the first phalanx by tendinous processes from the lumbricales and interosseous muscles ; they divide into three parts, their middle fibres being inserted252 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. into the second phalanx, while their lateral parts unite together and are inserted on the third, in a manner exactly similar to the arrangement of the extensor tendons of the fingers (p. 220). Relations.—It is in contact internally with the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis, and externally with the peronei muscles. It rests upon the external tuberosity of the tibia, the anterior surface of the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, the front of the ankle-joint, and the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve passes obliquely beneath its upper part. Varieties.—This muscle varies considerably in the mode of origin and the arrangement of its various tendons. The tendons to the second and fifth toes may be found doubled, or extra slips are given off from one or more tendons to then- corresponding metatarsal bones, or to the short extensor, or to one of the interosseous muscles. The peroneus tertius muscle arises below the extensor longus digitorum, from the lower fourth or more of the anterior surface of the fibula, from the lower part of the interosseous membrane, and from the intermuscular septum which separates it on the outer side from the peroneus brevis. Its tendon is inserted into the upper surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. Relations.—It is placed to the outer side of the long extensor of the toes, with which it is usually united at its origin, and it passes through the same compart- ment of the annular ligament with that muscle. Varieties.—The peroneus tertius is sometimes as large as the extensor longus digitorum ; it frequently terminates partly or wholly on the fourth metatarsal bone ; and it is sometimes altogether wanting. Nerves.—All the muscles of the front of the leg are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. EXTERNAL REGION. The peroneus longus muscle arises by a few fibres from the outer tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and upper two-thirds of the ex- ternal surface of the fibula ; from the fascia of the leg; and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscular fibres end in the lower half of the leg on a tendon which passes downwards with that of the peroneus brevis in the hollow behind the external malleolus ; it next inclines forwards on the outer side of the os calcis, and then winds round the outer border of the foot to enter the groove on the lower surface of the cuboid bone ; finally, crossing the sole obliquely inwards and for- wards, it is inserted into an impression on the lower and posterior part of the first metatarsal bone, and slightly into the adjoining part of the internal cuneiform bone : an offset is frequently sent from it to the base of the second metatarsal bone. Relations.—At its origin the peroneus longus lies between the extensor longus digitorum in front and the soleus and flexor longus hallucis behind; in the lower part of the leg it lies behind the peroneus brevis. Its attachment to the bone is interrupted for about an inch below the head of the fibula, where the external popliteal nerve passes beneath it. Behind the external malleolus the tendons of both peronei are contained in the same sheath under the annular liga- ment, but on the outer side of the os calcis each tendon has its own sheath, the two being separated by a fibrous septum and by the peroneal spine of the cal- caneum when that process exists. A single synovial sac invests both tendons and sends two processes downwards into the special sheaths. In the sole of the foot the tendon of the peroneus longus lies in a fibrous sheath formed by the253 GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. long plantar ligament, and is surrounded by a second synovial membrane. A sesamoid fibro-cartilage, or sometimes a bone, is found in that part of the tendon which plays over the ridge of the cuboid. The peroneus hrevis arises from the lower two-thirds of the external surface of the fibula, extending upwards in front of the peroneus longus, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. Its tendon passes down behind the external malleolus, and then inclines forwards to be inserted into the projection at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, sending in most cases a small slip to join the extensor tendon of the little toe, or to the fore part of the metatarsal bone. Relations.—In front it is in contact with the extensor longus digitorum and the peroneus tertius, and behind with the peroneus longus and flexor longus hallucis. The common synovial membrane surrounds the tendon under the annular ligament, and sends a prolongation into its special sheath, above that for the peroneus longus. Varieties.—The peroneus accessorius arises from the fibula between the peroneus longus and brevis, and joins the tendon of the former in the sole of the foot. The peroneus quinti dirjiti arises from the lower fourth of the fibula under the peroneus brevis, and is inserted into the extensor aponeurosis of the little toe ; this is of rare occurrence as a distinct muscle, but it appears to be represented normally by the above-mentioned slip of the tendon of the peroneus brevis. Peroneus quartus (Otto) arises from the back of the fibula, between the peroneus brevis and the flexor hallucis, and is inserted into the peroneal spine of the os calcis or into the ridge of the cuboid. Nerves.—The peroneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous branch of the external popliteal nerve. POSTERIOR REGION. The muscles at the back of the leg consist of a superficial group in- serted into the extremity of the calcaneum, and a deeper group covered in by a deep fascia and for the most part descending to the sole. The superficial group consists of three muscles ; two of them, the gastrocnemius and soleus, are of large size, form the bulk of the calf of the leg, and descend, the one lying on the surface of the other, to be in- serted by a common tendon—the tendo Achillis; the third, a small muscle, the plantaris, passes downwards between the other two. The gastrocnemius muscle consists of two large heads which arise from the lower end of the femur, and terminate about the middle of the leg in a common tendon. The outer head takes origin from a depression on the outer side of the external condyle, above the tuberosity, and from the hinder surface of the femur immediately above the condyle. The inner head arises from an impression on the upper part of the internal condyle, close behind the adductor tubercle, from the lower end of the internal supracondylar ridge, and from an adjoining roughened part of the popliteal surface of the femur. The lateral part of each origin takes place by means of a strong tendon which is attached to the impression on the condyle, and spreads out as it descends on the surface of the head, while the central part consists of short tendinous fibres, which are succeeded by a prominent fleshy mass extending along the part of the head next to the middle line of the limb. Tbe two heads enlarge down- wards as fresh fibres are added from the superficial tendons, and their adjacent borders converge and soon meet, but do not join, being separated superficially by a longitudinal groove, and deeply by a thin tendinous band which is seen when the fleshy fibres are drawn aside.MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 254 The short muscular fibres incline forwards, and end obliquely on the surface of the inferior tendon, which is broad and aponeurotic as it occupies the deep surface of the muscle, but becomes narrower and thicker as it proceeds downwards to be united with the subjacent tendon of the soleus in the tendo Achillis. Fig. 184. Fig. 184.—Superficial muscles of the leg, seem from behind (after Bourgery). §■ 1, lower part of the vastus externus ; 2, biceps flexor cruris ; 3, semitendinosus ; 4, semimembranosus ; 5, gracilis ; 6, sartorius ; 7, outer, and 8, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 9, placed in the popliteal space, points to the plantaris ; 9', its thin tendon on the inner side of the tendo Achillis ; 10, 10, fibres of the soleus descending to the flat tendon which, joining with that of the gastrocnemius, forms, + +, the tendo Achillis ; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis; 13, flexor longus digitorum ; 14, tibialis posticus; 15, is placed on the lower part of the fibula, and points to the lower fibres of the flexor longus hallucis, the tendon of which is seen descending over the tibia at 15'. The lower edge of each muscular part presents a convexity downwards ; and the inner head, besides being broader and thicker, also descends lower than the outer. A syno- vial bursa, usually communicating with the knee-joint, lies beneath the inner head of origin, and separates it from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. In the outer head a sesamoid fibro-cartilage is sometimes met with over the outer condyle of the femur, and it is occasionally found ossified. Relations. —The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle form the inferior boundaries of the popli- teal space, and are placed between the hamstring muscles : the peroneal nerve is lodged between the external head and the biceps. The gastrocnemius conceals the popliteus, plantaris and soleus muscles, with the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve. The short saphenous vein is placed over, and the tibial communicating nerve descends in, the interval between its two heads. Varieties.—The gastrocnemius is not unfre- quently joined by a bundle of muscular fibres which arises separately from some part of the pop- liteal surface of the femur. This bundle has been seen passing between the popliteal artery and vein. Absence of the outer head or even of the whole muscle has also been observed. The soleus muscle arises externally from the posterior surface of the head and upper third of the shaft of the fibula; internally from the oblique line and the posterior border of the tibia, as far down as the middle of the bone ; and between the tibia and fibula, from a tendinous band which arches over the popliteal vessels and nerve. The muscular fibres spring in part from the bones, but to a muchSOLEUS MUSCLE. 255 greater extent from two tendinous lam inas which descend, the outer from the fibula, and the inner from the arch over the vessels and the oblique line of the tibia, in the substance of the muscle, on the front surface of Fig. 185.—Superficial muscles of Fig- 185. THE LEG, SEEN FROM THE INNER side (after Bourgery). j 1, vastus intemus ; 2, sartorius ; 2', its tendon, spreading on the inner upper part of the tibia ; 3, gracilis ; 4, semitendinosus ; 4', its insertion ; and between 2' and 4', that of the gracilis ; 5, semimembranosus ; 6, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 7, soleus ; 8, 8', placed upon the tendo Aehillis, point to the tendon of the plantaris descending on the inner side ; 9, small part of the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; 10, flexor longus digitorum ; 11, flexor longus hallucis; 12, tibialis anticus ; 12', its tendon of insertion ; 13, abductor hallucis. which each appears by one edge, the opposite edge being directed obliquely towards the middle line of the leg. The fibres from the anterior sur- faces of these laminae con- verge to a median tendinous septum which also appears on the front of the muscle by one border, while those arising from their posterior surfaces are directed downwards and backwards, and end in an aponeurosis which covers the greater part of the posterior surface of the mass, and over which the tendinous surface of the gastrocnemius glides. The tendon of insertion is prolonged downwards from this aponeurosis, being joined anteriorly by the median sep- tum, and forms the deeper and larger part of the tendo Aehillis. The fibres of the muscle are numerous and short, having a length of at most from two to three inches, and they are continued downwards on the deep surface of the tendo Aehillis to within a short distance of the heel. Relations.—The soleus rests upon the flexor longus hallucis. flexor longus digi- torum, and tibialis posticus muscles, together with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which, however, it is separated by the deep aponeurosis. Varieties.—To the soleus an accessory portion is occasionally added at itsMUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 256 lower and inner part; this usually ends on the inner side of the tendo Achillis, but it is sometimes attached separately to the os calcis, or to the internal annular ligament. The tendo Achillis, the thickest and strongest tendon in the body, is formed by the union of the flat tendons of the gastrocnemius and soleus. Broad at its commencement near the middle of the leg, it contracts as it proceeds downwards and becomes thicker to within about an inch and a half of the heel; it then expands slightly to be inserted into the middle part of the posterior surface of the tuberosity of the os calcis. A synovial bursa is interposed between the upper part of the tube- rosity and the tendon. The plantaris muscle arises from the femur immediately above the external condyle, and from the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; its muscular part is from three to four inches in length, and terminates in a long slender tendon, which inclines inwards between the gastrocnemius and soleus, and, running along the inner border of the tendo Achillis, is inserted by the side of that into the posterior part of the calcaneum. Varieties.—The plantaris varies in its mode of termination ; it frequently joins the tendo Achillis, or ends in the deep fascia of the leg-, or in the internal annular ligament. Its tendon is sometimes enclosed in the lower part of the tendo Achillis. It is frequently absent altogether. This muscle, which is little developed and almost vestigial in man, is of large size in some animals, being prolonged over the calcaneum to the plantar fascia and the short flexor of the toes. The deep group of posterior muscles of the leg is in close contact with the bones; it consists of the popliteus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and tibialis posticus. The popliteus, a short muscle placed below the knee, arises by a rounded tendon, about an inch in length, from the lower part of the groove on the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur, within the external lateral ligament and capsule of the knee-joint; it is in contact with the external semilunar flbro-cartilage, and receives addi- tional fibres from the posterior ligament of the joint. The muscular fibres diverge as they pass downwards and inwards, and are inserted into the triangular surface of the tibia above the oblique line, and into the aponeurosis covering the muscle. Its tendon occupies the groove on the femur only when the knee-joint is fully flexed. Relations.—The popliteus is bound down by an aponeurosis, principally derived from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. The plantaris and gastro- cnemius muscles, the popliteal vessels and internal popliteal nerve lie upon its posterior surface. The synovial membrane of the knee-joint sends a prolongation downwards between its tendon and the back of the outer tuberosity of the tibia. Varieties.—This muscle has been seen with an additional head of origin from the sesamoid bone in the outer head of the gastrocnemius. The popliteus minor (Calori) is a muscular slip of rare occurrence, arising from the femur on the inner side of the plantaris, and inserted into the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. The pcronco-tibialis is a small muscle described by W. Gruber, and found by him in the proportion of 1 in 7 in a large number of subjects. It arises from the inner side of the head of the fibula, and is inserted into the upper end of the oblique line of the tibia, being situated beneath the popliteus. It is constant in apes. (Arch. f. Anat., 1877, p. 401, and 1878, p. 484.) The three remaining muscles of this group are bound clown together by a deep fascia, which extends between the tibia and fibula, and sepa- rates hem from the soleus.257 FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM. The flexor longus cligitorum pedis muscle, or flexor perforans, arises from the inner portion of the posterior surface of the tibia (see m Fig. 186.—Deep posterior muscles op the leg. Fig. 186. (A. T.) k a, popliteal surface of the femur ; b, bare surface / / of the upper third of the tibula ; from which the /" soleus muscle has been removed ; c, internal malleo- / ( lus ; il, external malleolus ; e, tuberosity of the os calcis, with a part of the tendo Achillis inserted into it, and the plantaris on its inner side ; 1, inner head of the gastrocnemius, cut short ; 2, outer head ; 3, plantaris ; 4, tendon of the semimem- branosus muscle near its insertion, seen spreading in three portions, viz., to the tibia, to the popliteal fascia, and to the posterior ligament ; 5, tendon of the biceps inserted into the head of the fibula ; 6, popliteus muscle ; 7, upper part of the origin of the soleus from tiie fibula, cut short; 7', line of its tibial origin ; between these figures is seen the per- foration in the upper part of the interosseous mem- brane ; 8, tibialis posticus ; 8', its tendon, passing between the flexor longus digitorum and the tibia ; 9, flexor longus digitorum ; 9', its tendon, with that of the tibialis posticus, passing behind the internal malleolus ; 10, flexor longus hallucis ; 10', placed beside its tendon, where it passes over the tibia and astragalus ; 11, peroneus longus ; 11', its tendon behind that of the peroneus brevis, passing down behind the external malleolus ; 12, peroneus brevis. p. 116), its attachment extending oyer the middle two-fonrths of the length of the bone; it likewise receives fibres from a thin aponeurosis which covers the tibialis posticus, and is attached to the inner border of the fibula, and from which the flexor » Wf/'Wv/ longus hallucis also takes origin. Its ten- f mmmt'A don descends in a groove behind thfe in- ternal malleolus, lying outside that of the tibialis posticus, and invested by a distinct fibrous and synovial sheath ; it is then directed obliquely forwards and outwards into the sole of the foot, crossing be- low the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis interiorly, to which it is con- nected by a tendinous slip; it there divides into four parts, which pass forwards to > j be inserted into the terminal phalanges of the four smaller toes. Each digital tendon enters a fibrous sheath on the toe to which it belongs, perforates the corre- sponding tendon of the flexor brevis digitorum, and is invested with synovial membrane and connected by vincula ac- cessoria to the phalanges ; the whole arrangement being essentially the same as that which has been already described in the fingers (see p. 217). VOL. i. s -12258 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Relations.— It rests upon the tibia and upon the tibialis posticus muscle, crossing the latter obliquely in the lower third of the leg. It is covered at the upper part by the soleus and inferiorly by the aponeurosis of the leg. Upon it also lie the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Varieties.—A supplementary head, flexor accessorius longus digitorum, is not unfrequently found rising from the fibula, or the tibia, or the deep fascia, and ending in a tendon which, after passing beneath the internal annular ligament, joins the tendon of the long flexor, or the accessorius. It has also been seen re- placing the latter muscle. It rarely sends a slip to the flexor hallucis tendon. Gies describes an accessory slip from the tibialis anticus, which joined the flexor digitorum at the ankle. A flexor proprius digiti secundi was found by Bahnsen, arising from the back of the tibia. Intimately connected with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum are the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles, which, although Fig. 187.—Second layer of muscles of the sole. £ b, tendon of flexor longus digitorum ; c, tendon of flexor longus hallucis ; e, long plantar ligament; 2, tendon of flexor brevis digitorum to second toe, cut short; 4, flexor accessorius ; 5, first lumbricalis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis hallucis; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 10, third plantar interosseous muscle. they are situated in tlie foot, may he most conveniently described in this place. The flexor accessorius arises by two heads, the internal and larger of which is fleshy, and is attached to the inner surface of the calcanemn, while the external, flat, narrow, and tendinous, is attached to the outer surface of the calcanemn a little in front of the external tubercle, and to the long plantar form a muscular mass which is inserted into the external border and upper surface of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. Varieties.—The outer head of the muscle is often absent. The number of digital tendons to which the fibres of the accessorius can he fol- lowed is subject to considerable variation. Most frequently offsets are sent to the second third and fourth toes ; in many cases however to the fifth as well; occasionally to two toes only. More rarely a slip joins the tendon of the flexor hallucis. and the muscle has been seen to end entirely on that tendon (G. D. T). The lumbricales muscles, four in number, arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of division, each being, with the exception of the most internal, attached to two tendons. They pass forwards to the inner sides of the four outer toes, each muscle ending in a tendon, which is inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx of the toe. Varieties.—Absence of one or more of the lumbricales has been observed ; also doubling of the third and fourth. The insertion of these muscles frequently takes place, partly or wholly, into the first phalanges. ligament. These origins unitedDEEP POSTERIOR MUSCLES OF THE LEO. 259 Relations.—In the sole of the foot the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales, are covered by the flexor brevis digitorum ; the hinder part of the external plantar vessels and nerve being placed between. These tendons, with their additional muscles, conceal the adductor hallucis, the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, the transversns pedis, the interosseous muscles, and the plantar arterial arch. The flexor longus hallucis muscle (flexor longus pollicis pedis) arises from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei; and from the aponeurosis common to it and the flexor longus digitorum, which covers the tibialis posticus. The muscular fibres, passing obliquely backwards and downwards, end in a tendon on the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon traverses a groove on the lower end of the tibia, on the back of the astragalus and the under surface of the sustentaculum tali, being- bound down to those bones by a fibrous sheath lined by synovial mem- brane. Thence passing forwards and inwards, in the sole of the foot, it gives off a slip to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, by which it is crossed, and proceeds in a fibrous sheath over the first phalanx of the great toe to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Relations.—This muscle is concealed for the most part by the soleus, a small part only on the outer side of the tendo Achillis being covered by the fascia of the leg. Externally it is in contact with the peronei, and internally with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. It rests upon the fibula and tibialis posticus, and con- ceals the peroneal vessels. Behind the ankle the tendon of this muscle is separated from that of the flexor longus digitorum by an interval of more than half an inch, in which are placed the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. In the sole it is covered by the abductor hallucis and the plantar fascia; it is also crossed by the plantar vessels and nerves as well as by the tendon of the long- flexor of the toes. It rests upon the flexor brevis hallucis. Varieties.—This muscle is liable to very few variations, except in the mode of union of its tendon with that of the flexor longus digitorum which is exceedingly variable. In almost every case a slip is given from the flexor hallucis to the flexor digitorum ; and very frequently (1 in 6, Turner, Wood ; 1 in 4, Schulze) an additional slip proceeds from the flexor digitorum to the flexor hallucis. Com- plete separation of the tendons is very rare. This slip from the flexor hallucis most frequently passes to the second and third toes, but it may pass to the second only, or to all the four outer toes. The ‘pcvoneo-calcaneus interims is a small muscle described by Macalister as the probable homologue of the pronator quadratus of the arm. It arises below the flexor longus hallucis from the back of the fibula, behind the external malleolus, and passes over the sustentaculum tali in the groove with the flexor hallucis to be inserted into a tubercle on the os calcis. The tibialis posticus muscle, placed beneath the two long flexor muscles, arises from the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane ; from the outer portion of the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the superior tibio-fibular articulation to the middle of the bone ; from the whole inner surface of the fibula; and slightly from the aponeu- rosis covering it. The fleshy fibres pass to a tendon which, commencing above in the centre of the muscle, descends along its inner border, be- comes free at the level of the lower tibio-fibular articulation, and gains the innermost groove at the back of the internal malleolus, where it is contained in a fibrous sheath and surrounded by synovial membrane. It then inclines forwards, and ends by being inserted into the tubercle of the navicular bone, sending offsets forwards to the three cuneiform bones, to the cuboid, and to the bases of the second, third and fourth s 22C0 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. metatarsal bones, as well as a thin process backwards to the sustentaculum tali. Near its insertion the tendon contains a sesamoid fibro-cartilage, occasionally a bone, as it lies beneath the head of the astragalus. Relations.—The posterior surface of the tibialis posticus is in contact with the long flexors of the toes and the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels, while at the upper end the anterior tibial vessels are directed forwards between its at- tachments to the two bones. In the lower part of the leg the muscle crosses obliquely inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum, and its tendon becomes superficial for a short distance, lying close to the hinder border of the internal malleolus. In the foot it is covered by the abductor hallucis, and it rests against the inferior calcaneo-navicular ligament which separates it from the head of the astragalus. Varieties.—These are rare. An additional muscle has been seen occasionally arising from the back of the tibia below the flexor digitorum, and inserted into the capsule of the ankle-joint or into the annular ligament. This is thQ-tensor of the capsule of the ankle-joint of Henle and Linhart, or the tibialis secundus of Bahnsen. Nerves—The gastrocnemius, plantaris and popliteus, are supplied by the internal popliteal nerve. The soleus receives one branch from the internal popliteal nerve and another from the posterior tibial. The flexor longus digi- torum, flexor longus hallucis and tibialis posticus derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. MUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE FOOT. Fascial—The fascia of the dorsum of the foot is reduced to a thin membrane prolonged from the anterior annular ligament over the extensor tendons. Beneath it, deeper layers of fascia are placed over the short extensor of the toes and the interosseous muscles. The superficial fascia of the sole resembles that of the palm of the hand. It forms a thick cushion, especially over the bony prominences, and consists mainly of small lobules of fatty tissue bound down by numerous fibrous bands which pass vertically from the skin to the deep fascia. The deep fascia of the sole, or plantar fascia, consists of a cen- tral and two lateral portions, which are marked off from each other by superficial grooves, indicating the position of intermuscular septa. The inner portion, thinner and looser than the others, invests the abductor hallucis, and is continuous round the inner border of the foot with the dorsal fascia and with the lower fibres of the internal annular ligament. The outer part covers the abductor minimi digiti, is much stronger, and forms a particularly thick band between the outer tubercle of the os calcis and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is continuous round the outer border of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and sends a thin prolon- gation forwards over the insertion of the abductor and the short flexor muscles of the little toe. The central portion is exceedingly strong, and is composed of dense white glistening fibres, the greater number of which run longitudinally from the os calcis to the roots of the toes. It is narrow and thick behind, where it is attached to the inner tubercle of the os calcis, immediately below the origin of the flexor brevis digitorum, with which muscle it is closely connected. It becomes broader and thinner as it extends forwards, and near the heads of the metatarsal bones it divides into five processes, one passing to each of the toes. In the intervals between the processes a thin membrane composed of trans- verse fibres covers the lumbricales muscles and the digital nerves. The2G1 MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. arrangement of the processes is identical with that of the corresponding part of the palmar fascia, fibres being sent to the digital sheaths, super- ficial transverse ligament and skin, as well as deep processes on each side of the flexor tendons to the transverse metatarsal ligament. The two intermuscular septa which are given off between the middle and lateral portions of the plantar fascia pass deeply into the sole of the foot ; they separate the flexor brevis digitorum from the abductor hallucis on the inner side, and from the abductor minimi digiti on the outer side, and give partial origin to each of these muscles. The superficial transverse ligament of the toes is a thin band of fibres contained in the folds of skin limiting the interdigital clefts, and connected to the subjacent sheaths of the tendons. Like the transverse Fig. 1S8. Fig. 188.—Superficial muscles and tendons on THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT AND LOWER PART OF the front of the leg (after Bourgery). £ a, tibia; l, fibula; c, navicular bone ; cl, in- ternal cuneiform bone ; 1, 1', tibialis anticus ; 2, extensor proprius hallucis ; 2', its expansion on the dorsum of the great toe; 3, extensor communis digitorum dividing into its four tendons for the toes ; 3', its expansion, and 3", final insertion (upon the second toe) ; 4, peroneus tertius ; 4', its ex- panded insertion on the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; 5, soleus ; 6, peroneus brevis; 7, extensor brevis digitorum ; T, 7", placed on the transverse band of aponeurosis, marks the first and fourth tendons of the extensor brevis muscle ; 8, 9, part of the anterior annular ligament; 10, 11, a transverse band of the dorsal fascia of the foot. metatarsal ligament, it differs from the corresponding structure in the hand in being attached to all five digits. Muscles.—On the dorsum of the foot, besides the tendons continued from the muscles of the front of the leg, one short muscle is present, viz., the extensor brevis digitorum. In the sole the muscles are much more numerous, and are described in four layers as they are met with in the course of a dissection. The extensor brevis digitorum pedis arises from the fore part of the upper and outer surfaces of the os calcis, in front of the groove for the peroneus brevis muscle, and from the lower band of the anterior annular ligament. It divides into four tapering slips, each of which terminates in a tendon ; the first or most internal of these is inserted separately into the dorsal surface of the first phalanx of the great toe at its tarsal extremity ; and the other three become severally united to the outer border of the tendons of the long extensor proceeding to the three next toes. Relations.—It crosses the dorsum of the foot somewhat obliquely, resting on the tarsus and metatarsus, and lying beneath the tendons of the peroneus tertius and long extensor of the toes. Its inner slip also crosses the dorsal artery of the foot and the anterior tibial nerve.MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 262 Varieties.—The tendons of this muscle vary considerably both as to number and position, they may be reduced to two, or one of them may be doubled, or an additional slip may pass to the little toe. The innermost portion of the muscle is commonly separate much farther back than the other slips, and is described by many anatomists as a distinct muscle under the name of extensor brevis hallucis. The first layer of muscles of the sole includes the short common flexor of the toes, and the abductors of the great and little toes. The flexor brevis digitorum, or flexor perforatus, arises by a small pointed attachment from the fore part of the inner tubercle of the Fig. 1S9.—First layer op muscles op the sole. J. a, plantar fascia ; b, tendon of flexor longus digi- torunx to second toe; c, tendon of flexor longus hal- lucis ; 1, abductor hallucis; 2, flexor brevis digi- torum ; 3, abductor minimi digiti; 5, first lumbricalis; 6, inner head of flexor brevis hallucis; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti. calcaneum, from the deep surface of the plantar fascia for about two inches forwards, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscle terminates in four slender tendons which are inserted into the second phalanges of the four outer toes. Each tendon prior to its insertion divides and gives passage to the tendon of the long flexor, in a manner precisely similar to the arrange- ment of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles of the hand. Selations.—This muscle lies between the ab- ductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti, and is covered by the plantar fascia; it conceals the flexor accessorius, with the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, and the external plantar vessels and nerve. Varieties.—The slip of this muscle to the little toe, which is regularly much smaller than the others, is frequently wanting; or it may be re- placed by a small fusiform muscle arising from the outer side of the long flexor tendon, or more rarely from the flexor accessorius. On the other hand, the muscle has been seen with five tendons, two passing to the second toe. The abductor hallucis muscle (ahd. pollicis pedis) arises from the inner part of the larger tubercle of the calcaneum, from the internal annular ligament, from the septum between it and the flexor brevis digi- torum, and from the plantar fascia covering it. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon which, after being joined by fibres of the internal head of the flexor brevis hallucis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first jihalanx of the great toe. Relations.—It is covered by the thin internal division of the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the tendons of the tibialis posticus, and long flexor muscles, with the flexor brevis hallucis, and with the plantar vessels and nerves. Varieties.—The abductor hallucis occasionally sends a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. Its tendon of insertion is sometimes joined by a Fig. 139.MUSCLES OF THE SOLE. 263 muscular slip springing' from the skin on the inner border of the foot, somewhat in front of the inner ankle ; but this is not so frequent as the cutaneous slip of the corresponding muscle of the hand. The abductor minimi digiti muscle lias a wide origin behind, from the front of both tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis, from the external intermuscular septum, and from the deep surface of the band of the plantar fascia which extends from the external tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a Fig. 190.—Transverse section of the right Fig. 190. FOOT BETWEEN THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. A. T. i a, b, c, articular surfaces of the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones ; d and e, the surfaces of the cuboid bone for the fourth and fifth meta- tarsal bones; between these bones are seen the strong interosseous ligaments which bind them together; 1, slip of the tendon of the tibialis anticus, which passes on to its insertion into the first metatarsal bone ; 2, tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis ; 3, slip of the extensor brevis digitorum to the great toe ; 3', remainder of the extensor brevis digitorum ; 4, slips of the extensor li longus digitorum ; 5, peroneus tertius ; 6, peroneus brevis ; 7, peroneus longus cut obliquely where it is emerging from its sheath below the cuboid bone ; 8, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis ; 9, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, with the slip from the flexor hallucis; 10, flexor accessorius ; 11, ahduetor hallucis ; 12, flexor brevis digitorum ; 13, abductor minimi digiti. tendon which, after gliding along a smooth depression on the inferior surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted into tire outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—The muscle is covered by the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the outer head of the flexor accessorius, the long plantar liga- ment, the peroneus longus tendon, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Variety.—The abductor ossis metatarsi qwinti is an occasional muscle which arises from the external tubercle of the os calcis, and is inserted into the spur- like process of the fifth metatarsal bone in common with, or beneath the outer margin of the plantar fascia. It may be adherent to the abductor minimi digiti, and it has been seen inserted into the middle or even the anterior part of the metatarsal bone. It occurs nearly once in every two subjects (Wood, Macalister). The second layer of muscles of the sole is constituted by the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, together with the flexor accessorius and lumbricales, all of which have been described in the last section (pp. 257—259). The third layer of muscles comprises the short flexor and adductor of the great toe, the transversus pedis, and the short flexor of the little toe. The flexor brevis hallucis (fl. brev. pollicis pedis) arises by a flat tendinous process from the inner border of the cuboid bone, and by a second band from the offset of the tibialis posticus tendon which passes to the middle and outer cuneiform bones. The muscular part is single and narrow behind, but in front it divides so as to form two bellies or heads which are inserted by tendinous fibres, one into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx in union with the abductor hallucis, the other into the outer border in union with the adductor. A sesamoid bone is developed in each of the heads.MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 264 Relations.—This muscle is in great part covered by the abductor hallucis and the common flexors of the toes, while the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis runs in the groove between its heads. Varieties.—The origin of the flexor brevis hallucis is subject to considerable variation : it often receives fibres from the os calcis or long plantar ligament, and the attachment to the cuboid is sometimes wanting. The muscle has been seen sending a slip to the first phalanx of the second toe. The adductor hallucis (add. pollicis pedis), placed obliquely in the sole of the foot, and forming a thick fleshy mass, arises from the tarsal extremities of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle ; narrowing as it passes forwards, it is inserted, conjointly with the external head of the flexor brevis hallucis, into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Fig. 191.— Third layer of muscles of ran sole. J cl, tendon of peroneus longus; e, long plantar ligament; 6, flexor brevis hallucis; 7, adductor hallucis ; 8, transversus pedis ; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti; 10, 10, second and third plantar interosseous muscles; 11, 11, third and fourth dorsal interosseous muscles. Relations.—At its inner side it is connected with the flexor brevis hallucis ; its deep surface rests upon the second, third and fourth meta- tarsal bones and the intervening interosseous muscles. The deep parts of the external plantar artery and nerve pass inwards beneath its outer border. Varieties.—A slip has been observed from this muscle also to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. The opponents hallucis is a muscle frequently found (Macalister). It usually comes off as a slip from the adductor, and is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It occurs in some apes. The transversus pedis consists of nar- row fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed trans- versely under cover of the flexor tendons, and arising from the inferior metatarso- phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, and from the transverse metatarsal ligament. The fibres of the muscle pass transversely inwards, and are inserted in union with the adductor hallucis into the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—Superficially it is crossed by the flexor tendons and by the digital nerves ; its deep surface rests upon the heads of the metatarsal bones, the inter- osseous muscles and the digital vessels. Varieties.—The slip from the little toe is frequently absent: absence of other slips or of the entire muscle has also been recorded. This muscle is described by many anatomists as a second head of the adductor hallucis. The flexor brevis minimi digiti arises by tendinous fibres from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the sheath of the pero- neus longus, and terminates in a tendon which is inserted into the base and external border of the first phalanx of the little toe.MUSCLES OF TIIE SOLE. 265 Relations.—lb is covered partly by the abductor minimi digiti, partly by the plantar fascia. It rests upon the fifth metatarsal bone, and its tendon blends at its insertion with the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligament. Variety.—The opponens minimi diyiti is a small additional muscle frequently found at the inner border of the flexor brevis, of which, indeed, it appears to be a slip. It is united to the flexor brevis for some distance from its origin, but is in- serted separately into the anterior half of the fifth metatarsal bone. It is regarded as normal by Henlc, Krause, and others. The fourth layer of the sole includes the dorsal and plantar in- terosseous muscles, with which the tendons of the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus are sometimes also enumerated. The interosseous muscles of the foot, like those of the hand, are seven in number, three plantar and four dorsal; the plantar are visible Fig. 192, A.—The dorsal interosseous MUSCLES FROM ABOVE. \ 1, 2, 3, 4, the several dorsal inter- osseous muscles in order from within outwards. B. —The plantar interosseous muscles FROM BELOW. 1, 2, 3, first, second, and third plantar interosseous muscles; this figure also shows the long and short plantar liga- ments, and the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus into the first meta- tarsal bone. only from the under side, while the dorsal muscles are visible both from above and below. Two muscles are found in the second, third and fourth spaces, but only one in the first. The dorsal interosseous mus- cles lie one in each interspace. Each muscle arises by two heads from the adjacent sides of two metatarsal bones ; their muscular fibres are attached pennately on the two sides of a central tendon which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx and partly into the extensor aponeurosis of the toe to which each belongs. The first two are inserted one on each side of the second toe ; the third and fourth are severally inserted on the outer sides of the third and fourth toes. At the proximal end of each muscle there is an interval between the two origins giving passage to perfo- rating arteries as in the hand. The plantar interosseous muscles arise from the inner and under surfaces of the third, fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and are severally inserted, in a manner similar to the dorsal interossei, partly into the inner sides of the first phalanges of the third, fourth and fifth toes, and partly into the extensor tendons of these toes. Nerves.—The extensor brevis digitorum is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Of the muscles of the sole the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis, and the two inner lumbricales are supplied by the internal Fix 192.MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 2G6 plantar nerve ; all the others, including' the flexor accessorius and the two outer lumbricales, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. Actions of the Muscles of the Leg1 and Foot.—There is only one muscle of the leg, viz., the popliteus, which acts on the knee-joint alone. Its principal action is that of a rotator inwards of the leg, but it also assists in bending the knee. It comes into play especially in the commencement of flexion, producing the inward rotation of the tibia (or outward rotation of the femur), which is essential to that stage of the movement. It may here be observed that owing to the difference in the direction of the bend at the ankle, as compared with that at the wrist-joint, some confusion is apt to arise in the description of the action of the muscles of the leg upon the foot. As it is obvious from morphological considerations that the anterior sur- face of the leg and the dorsal surface of the foot belong to the general extensor surface of the limb, corresponding with the back of the forearm and the dorsum of the hand ; and that the back of the leg and the sole of the foot belong in the same way to the general flexor surface corresponding with the front of the fore- arm and the palm of the hand, the foot being in a position of over-extension, it follows that the muscles on the anterior aspect of the leg are really extensors, and that their action in moving the foot so as to approximate the toes to the front of the leg merely increases the over-extension ; while, on the other hand, the muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg are really flexors, and their action in straightening the ankle-joint is to reduce merely this over-extension by an opposite movement of flexion. Nevertheless, it has been customary to apply the name of flexion to the action of raising the foot on the front of the leg, and that of extension to its depression. In the following description the usual terms are employed. The gastrocnemius acts both as a flexor of the knee and an extensor of the ankle-joint. When the anterior muscles of the leg fix the ankle-joint, it is fitted to act as a flexor of the knee; when the knee is fixed either by being placed in complete extension or by the sustained action of the extensor muscles, the gastro- cnemius acts entirely on the foot, and combines with the soleus in lifting the heel from the ground, and in raising the body on the toes. The tibialis anticus and peroneus tcrtius are flexors of the ankle ; the tibialis posticus and peroneus longus and brevis are extensors. The two tibial muscles acting together produce the movement of inversion of the foot, in which action they are aided by the flexors of the toes. The three peronei and the extensors of the toes draw the foot upwards and outwards, and thus produce the movement of eversion. The peroneus longus, in crossing the foot inferiorly, strengthens the transverse arch formed by the metatarsal bones and anterior range of tarsal bones ; especially when that arch is pressed upon by the weight of the body falling on the balls of the toes, as in stooping with bent knees. 1h.Qfl-e.vor and extensor muscles of the toes, including the lumbricales and inter- osseous muscles, act like the corresponding muscles in the hand. The direction of the flexor longus digitorum is, however, modified by the flexor accessorius, so as to bring its line of action into the direction of the middle of the foot and of the short flexor. The tibialis posticus and the flexors of the toes give important assistance to the ligaments and the plantar fascia in supporting the longitudinal arches of the foot. MORPHOLOGY OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. It has already been mentioned (p. 1S8) that the muscles of the limbs and limb- girdles are primarily derived mainly from the ventro-lateral division of the epaxial set of muscles. In the case of the upper limbs there are no muscles of hypaxial origin, but in the lower limb there are at least two muscles which may be regarded as prolongations outwards from the hypaxial set, one passing to its inner and anterior (preaxial) aspect (psoas), the other to its posterior and outer (postaxial) aspect (pyriformis). These two muscles are consequently without homologues in the upper limbs. As each limb begins bud-like to project from the side of the embryo, it may be supposed to receive an enveloping sheath ofMORPHOLOGY OF TIIE LIMB-MUSCLES. 267 muscle from tlie side of the body (Humphry). This sheath is at first a simple infundibulum, but it gradually extends in length with the growth of the limb, and becomes segmented, pari passu, with the segmentation of the hard parts. The deeper fibres of the sheath are restricted to passing from one segment to the next, while the superficial fibres are frequently found to pass over one segment altogether to more distal parts. Humphry holds that of the three layers into which the trunk portion of the ventro-lateral muscle divides, two layers may be traced into its appendicular segments, corresponding respectively to the external oblique and superficial portion of the internal oblique layers (see later the mor- phology of the trunk-muscles). In the upper limb, from the greater freedom of movement of the girdle, and from its more superficial position, the first segment of the muscular sheath is longer, and its constituent parts more easily recognised than in the case of the trunk-girdle muscles of the lower limb, which are not differentiated to the same extent from the trunk-muscles. Traced to the shoulder- girdle, the superficial layer of trunk-limb muscles is found to divide into three principal masses. Anteriorly are the pectorals ; superiorly and posteriorly are the cleido-mastoid and trapezius, the latter being continued to the bone of the arm as the deltoid ; and interiorly and posteriorly the latissimus dorsi. Beneath the trapezius are the rhomboids, and on the deeper surface of the latissimus dorsi are its occasional scapular portion and the teres major, all of which appear to be formed in the deeper parts of this layer. The muscles of this layer are frequently found to some extent united together either as varieties in man, or as regular structures among some of the lower animals, and it is interesting to note that many of the varieties hitherto described, seem to be reversions so far towards a uniform type. Thus in Lepidosiren the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi are blended together at their margins, so as to form one continuous muscle ; and in man the frequently recurring axillary arches or loops of muscular fibres which pass from one muscle to the other across the axillary space may point to an im- perfectly segmented condition. Again, the pectoralis major is always united in man with the superficial fibres of the external oblique, but in the cryptobranch it is continuous with it in its entire thickness. The cleido-mastoid, which in man is in close relation with the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major, being only separated from it by the clavicle, runs with the anterior part of the trapezius into the deltoid in those animals in which the clavicle is deficient, forming a cephalo-humeral muscle. The trunk-limb muscles of the deep layer form a much less complete layer than those of the superficial. They are attached to the shoulder-girdle in two sets. In.front of the glenoid cavity, and attached to the coracoid, is the costo- coracoid muscle (in man called subclavius from its more common place of attachment); and behind the glenoid cavity, attached to the scapula, are the costo-scapular muscles, viz., the serratus magnus, together with the levator scapulte. Besides these there is the slender omo-hyoid from the front of the hyoidean arch to the upper border of the scapula. In the lower limb the ventro-appendicular muscles are represented for the most part by the oblique abdominal muscles, only those parts of the muscles which pass from the girdle to the limb being found distinct. The gluteus maxi- mus most closely represents the latissimus dorsi, and is similarly inserted into the postaxial border of the limb. The pectoralis corresponds most nearly with the gracilis, and the trapezio-deltoid with the anterior part of the external oblique and pectineus. The gracilis and pectineus arise near each other, and are inserted into the preaxial border of the limb. The pectineus, however, seems to consist of two parts, of which the inner may be related to the subclavius, and the outer to the great pectoral and deltoid. All the other muscles of the limbs are intrinsic, and in their relation to the several segments are arranged in groups which may in the main be compared homologically with each other. These groups are situated chiefly on the ventral and dorsal aspects, or on the preaxial and postaxial borders of the limbs, and the muscles of which they are composed are respectively flexors and extensors, or protractors and retractors. In attempting, however, to institute a homological comparison between the individual muscles of the various segments in the two limbs, it will be necessary2SS COMPARISON OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. to bear in mind, first, the great difference in the attitude of the bones of the proximal segments, the flexor surface in the upper limb being thrown forwards as if by an outward twist, and in the lower limb the flexor surface being turned backwards as if by an inward twist of the proximal segments ; and farther, the preponderance in the second segment of the lower limb of the preaxial bone (tibia) over the postaxial (fibula) as opposed to the greater development of the upper end of the postaxial bone of the arm (ulna) over the preaxial (radius). These differences are apt to lead to confusion and difficulty, inasmuch as the insertions of homologous muscles are in some cases very different in the two limbs. In such cases the determination of the homologies may be greatly assisted, by the observation of the more constant origins. For example, the great extensor of the forearm is inserted into the postaxial ulna, while in the leg the quad- riceps is inserted into the preaxial tibia ; and yet few will doubt the justness of the homological comparison between them. In the distal segments of both limbs the muscles, though more numerous, become shorter and more uniform in their disposition, and hence the homology becomes more apparent between the muscles of the hand and foot, than in those situated nearer the roots of the limbs. From what has been said it appears that considerable difficulty still prevails in the determination of the muscular homologies of the upper and lower limbs, especially in their proximal segments and attachment to the trunk, and the com- parison of these muscles cannot, therefore, be minutely followed out. But the following table may be useful to the student of human anatomy, as presenting what appear to be the most probable views of the muscular relations in the upper and lower limbs, and as indicating the bearing upon such views of some facts in comparative anatomy as well as of some of the varieties mentioned in the pre- vious description of the individual muscles. (Upon this subject consult the works of Humphry, Mivart, Rolleston and Huxley, already quoted at pp. 131 and 188.) TABLE OP MUSCULAR HOMOLOGIES IN THE UPPER AND LOWER LIMBS. I. Muscles passing from Trunk to Limbs or their Girdles. TJpper Limb.* 1. Trapezius . la. Cleido-mastoid .... 11). Rhomboids ..... 2. Levator scapuke ) 2a. Serratus magnus ) 3. Latissimus dorsi ) 3a. Teres major ) 4. Pectoralis major .... -in. Pectoralis minor .... Ih. Subclavius (second pectoral of birds, Rolleston) ? . 5. Omohyoid . . . . . Lower Limb. 1, la. lh. Lumbar aponeurosis and ex- ternal oblique. 2 ( Quadratus lumborum. ’ ' ( Internal oblique. | 3, 3a. Gluteus maximus. 4. Gracilis. Part of Pectineus ? 4a. ? 111. Inner or deep head of Pectineus, supplied by obturator nerve (Rolleston) ? II. Muscles passing mainly from Girdle to Limb. !C>a. Scapular part 65. Clavicularpart 7. Supraspinatus 6a. Tensor vaginae femoris and Sar- torius. j 65. Pectineus, outer head supplied by ( anterior crural nerve (Rolleston). 7. Obturator intemus ? * The numbers affixed to the several muscles in the two columns are intended merely as a means of facilitating the reference from one to the other, the upper limb being taken as the standard of comparison. The names of muscles printed in italics are those of varieties more or less frequently found in human anatomy.COMPARISON OP TIIE LIMB-MUSCLES. 2G9 8 Infraspinatus 8a. Teres minor 9. Subscapularis 10. Coraco-brachialis a,b,c. Upper, middle and lowei parts 11. Biceps flexor cubiti a. Glenoid head b. Coracoid head c. Humeral head 11 d. Brachialis anticus 12. Triceps extensor cubiti a. Scapular head b. External humeral head c. Internal humeral head 8. Iliacus. 8a. Iliacus minor (Luschka). Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus. 10a, b, c. Three Adductors, with perhaps Obturator externus. I Ischial head of Biceps 11a b < crm’is- ’ ' ^ Semimembranosus. f Semitendinosus. lie, d. Femoral head of Biceps femoris. 12. Quadriceps extensor cruris. a. Bectus femoris. b. Vastus externus. j Vastus internus. \ Crureus. III. Muscles passing- over Elbow and Knee-joints and acting on the RELATIVE POSITION OP THE BONES OP TIIE FOREARM AND LEG. Upper Limb. Lower Limb. 13. Supinator radii longus 13. 1 14. ' Supinator radii brevis . 14. l 15. Pronator radii teres . 15. Popliteus. 16. Pronator quadratus 1G. Peroneo-calcaneus internus (Mac- alister). IV. Muscles passing over Wrist and Ankle-joints. A. To the carpus anil metacarpus or to the tarsus and metatarsus. 17. Extensor carpi radialis longior 17. 1 17a. Extensor carpi radialis brevior 18. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis . 18. Tibialis anticus. 19. Extensor carpi ulnaris 19. Peroneus tertius. 20. Flexor carpi radialis . 20. Gastrocnemius. 21. Palmaris longus .... 21. Plantaris. 22. Flexor carpi ulnaris 22. Peroneus longus and brevis. 23. Radio-carpus .... 23. Tibialis posticus. B. To the digital phalanges. 24. Extensor com. digit, longus 24. Extensor com. digit, long. 25. Extensor secundi internod. poll. . 25. Extensor prop, hallucis. 26. Extensor primi intemod. poll. 26. First slip of ext. brevis digit. 27. Extensor indicis .... 27. Second slip of ext. brevis digit. 28. Extensor minimi digiti 28. Part of ext. long, digit. 29. Flexor sublimis digitorum . 29. Soleus and flexor brevis digitorum. 30. Flexor profundus digitorum 30. Flexor longus digitorum. 31. Flexor longus pollicis . 31. Flexor longus hallucis. V. Muscles confined TO THE HAND AND FOOT. ( Tendons of ext. secundi internod. ’ . 32. Extensor communis digitorum brevis. 32. < pollicis and indicis, and ext. brevis digit. 33. Abductor pollicis 33. Abductor hallucis. 34. Flexor brevis pollicis . 34. Flexor brevis hallucis. a. Part of inner head a. Adductor hallucis. 35. Opponens pollicis 35. Opponens hallucis.270 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 36. Adductor pollicis 37. Tendons of flexor sublimis digi torum .... 36. Transversus pedis. 37. Flexor brevis digitorum. 38. Palmaris brevis . 39. Abductor minimi digiti 40. Flexor brevis minimi digiti 41. Opponens minimi digiti 38. 39. Abductor minimi digiti. 40. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 41. Opponens minimi digiti. 42. Interossei, dorsal and plantar. a. Tibialis secundi digiti (dors.). h. Fibularis sec. dig. (dors.). 42. Interossei, dorsal and palmar a. Radialis secundi digiti (dors.) 1. Ulnaris sec. dig. (palm.) c. Eadialis medii (dors.) . d. Ulnaris medii (dors.) . e. Radialis quarti (palm.) /. Ulnaris quarti (dors.) . g. Radialis quinti (palm.). c. Tibialis tertii (plant.). d. Fibularis tertii (dors.). e. Tibialis quarti (plant.). f. Fibularis quarti (dors.). g. Tibialis quinti (plant.). 43. Lumbricales 43. Lumbricales. III.—MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fascia.—The superficial fascia is little developed on the head and neck generally, and is in great measure blended with structures described under other names. A layer of considerable firmness, however, inter- venes between the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis muscle and the skin, uniting them closely together: from the surface of the occipital part of the muscle it becomes continuous with the superficial covering of the posterior muscles of the neck, and on each side of the epicranial aponeurosis it descends over the temporal fascia, and contains between its lamirne the external muscles of the ear, with the superficial temporal vessels and nerves. Muscles.—Under the title of occipito-frontalis are comprised the occipital and frontal muscles, united together by a thin aponeurosis which extends over and covers the upper part of the cranium. The occipitalis muscle, thin aud subcutaneous, is attached inferiorly by short tendinous fibres to the external two-thirds, sometimes less, of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and to the mastoid por- tion of the temporal bone above the attachment of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Its fleshy fibres, from one to two inches in length, are directed upwards, and terminate in distinct tendinous fibres, continuous with the epicranial aponeurosis. The interval between the muscles of opposite sides is occupied by the aponeurosis. The frontalis muscle, larger and of a paler colour than the occi- pitalis, arises superiorly in a convex line from the epicranial aponeurosis between the coronal suture and the frontal eminence. Inferiorly the fibres terminate in the subcutaneous tissue at the root of the nose and along the whole length of the eyebrow, the inner fibres appearing to be continued into the pyramidalis nasi muscle, while the larger number interlace with those of the corrugator supercilii and orbicularis palpe- brarum. The fibres are nearly vertical, running slightly inwards as they descend: the margins of the right and left muscles are united for some distance above the root of the nose, but are separated by an angular interval superiorly. The epicranial or occipitofrontal aponeurosis extends over the upper surface of the cranium uniformly from side to side, without EPICRANIAL REGION.271 AURICULAR MUSCLES. division. Posteriorly it is attached to the occipitales muscles, and to the protuberance and superior curved lines of the occipital bone, and anteriorly it terminates in the frontales muscles, while laterally it pre- sents no distinct margin, but below the temporal line becomes thinner and less aponeurotic, and gives attachment to the superior and anterior auricular muscles. Its fibres are chiefly longitudinal, and are most distinctly tendinous where they give attachment to the occipitales muscles. Its outer surface is firmly bound to the shin by an abundant network of connective tissue, constituting the so-called superficial fascia, by the meshes of which the subcutaneous fat is divided into granules; while its deep surface glides upon the subjacent pericranium, to which it is loosely attached by a delicate areolar tissue devoid of fat. Varieties.—Both parts of the occipito-frontalis are subject to variation in their development, and in their places of attachment. The occipitalis occasionally approaches the middle line, and is frequently broken up into separate parts : its outermost fibres are sometimes inserted into the back of the pinna, becoming continuous with the posterior auricular muscle. The frontalis may send slips from its inner part to the frontal, nasal, or superior maxillary bones, or into the levator labii superioris absque nasi, or from its outer part to the external angular process of the frontal bone, all of which have been described as normal by different anatomists. Actions.—By the contraction of the frontales muscles the eyebrows are elevated, the scalp drawn forwards, and the skin of the forehead thrown into transverse wrinkles; by the contraction of the occipitales muscles the scalp is drawn backwards; and by the alternate action of the frontales and occipitales muscles the scalp is moved forwards and backwards. In the majority of persons, however, there is only a partial control over the action of these muscles, limited to the elevation of the eyebrows and horizontal wrinkling of the forehead. AURICULAR MUSCLES. Besides minute bundles of muscular fibres which, pass from one part of the pinna to another, and which will be most conveniently described with that structure, there are attached to the external ear three larger, but still very slightly developed, muscles, which serve to move it as a whole. The auricularis superior or attollens auriculam, the largest of the three, arises in the temporal region of the head from the epicranial aponeurosis. Its fibres are extremely delicate, and converge from a wide surface to be inserted by a compressed tendon into the anterior part of the helix and into the eminence on the inner surface of the pinna corresponding to the fossa of the antihelix. The auricularis anterior or attraliens auriculam, scarcely sepa- rated from the preceding muscle, is pale and indistinct, and is attached to the thin lateral prolongation of the epicranial aponeurosis, from which it passes backwards to be inserted into the fore part of the helix. The auricularis posterior or retrahens auriculam muscle con- sists of two or three fasciculi, which arise from the mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres, and are inserted into the back part of the concha. The fibres are deeper in colour and more distinctly marked than in either of the other auricular muscles. Varieties.—Of the auricular muscles the posterior and the anterior are subject to greater varieties than the superior, but all vary somewhat in the extent of their development, the posterior more frequently by an increase in the numberMUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 272 Fig. 193. Fig. 193.—Superficial muscles on the left side of tiie head and heck (slightly altered from Bourgery). (A. T.) ^ a, epicranial aponeurosis; b, superior curved line of the occipital bone ; c, ramus of the lower jaw ; cl, hyoid bone ; c, sternal end of the clavicle. 1, frontalis muscle ; 1', occipitalis ; 2, superior auricular muscle ; 2', anterior auricular ; 8, posterior auricular ; 4, margin of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; 5, pyramidalis nasi ; 6, compressor naris ; 7, levator labii superioris alfeque nasi; 8, orbicularis oris; 8', its attachment to the columella of the nose; 9, levator labii superioris, and close by it, zygomaticus minor ; between x and 8, zygomaticus major; and between the zygomatici, in shadow, is seen a portion of the levator anguli oris; 10, depressor labii inferioris ; 11, depressor anguli oris; 12, levator menti ; 13, on the masseter, is immediately above the risorius, and a line from it points to the buccinator; 14, platysma myoides; 15, on the upper part of the sterno- mastoid, points by a line to the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; 15', the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid, a part of its clavicular head is seen near c : 16, trapezius ; 17, splenius capitis; 18, levator scapulas ; 19, sterno-hyoid; 20, omo-hyoid; 21, pectoralis major, its stemo-costal part ; 21', its clavicular part ; 22, deltoid.MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBROWS. STS of its slips, tlie anterior by a diminution of the volume and distinctness of its fibres. The origin of part of the retrahens is sometimes carried backwards to a variable extent along the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Cruveilhier describes as normal a deep anterior auricular muscle, passing from the zygomatic process to the outer surface of the tragus. Actions.—The three auricular muscles respectively draw the pinna of the ear upwards, backwards, and forwards. In the majority of persons their action is not directly under voluntary control. MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AHD EYEBROWS. These are four in number, namely—the orbicularis palpebrarum and tensor tarsi, the levator palpebrse superioris, and the corrugator super cilii. The orbicularis palpebrarum is a thin elliptical muscle closely adherent to the skin, surrounding the fissure between the eyelids and covering their surface, and spreading for some distance outwards on the temple, upwards on the forehead, and downwards on the cheek. It consists of two parts which differ somewhat in their arrangement and action. The central or palpebral portion is that part of the muscle which is contained in the eyelids. It is composed of thin pale fibres which arise from the upper and lower margins of the internal tarsal ligament, and pass outwards, describing a slight curve, to be inserted into the much less developed external tarsal ligament. A somewhat thicker fasciculus, which lies along the free margin of each lid, is dis- tinguished as the ciliary bundle. The peripheral or orbital portion is larger, stronger, and of a deeper colour. Internally its fibres are attached to the inner part of the tarsal ligament, to the whole length of the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and to the inner part of the orbital arch of the frontal bone, while externally the fibres pass uninterruptedly from the eyebrow to the cheek, thus forming a series of concentric loops or, in the case of the more central fibres, nearly complete rings. Relations.—The palpebral portion of the muscle is separated from the fibrous groundwork of the lids (tarsi) by the palpebral ligament. The orbital portion lies in its upper part over the frontal hone and the corrugator supercilii, and is closely connected with the insertion of the frontalis muscle : in its lower part it rests upon the superior maxillary and malar bones, ml the origins of the elevator muscles of the upper lip and ala of the nose, and from both its inner and outer ends fibres are sent downwards to those muscles and to the skin of the cheek. These slips are described separately by Henle under the name of malaris muscle. The internal tarsal ligament (tendon of the orbicularis, tendo palpebra- rum) is a small white band which is often obscured by the fibres of the orbicularis muscle, but is rendered prominent by drawing the lids out- wards. This ligament is about two lines in length and half a line in breadth, and is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla, in front of the lachrymal groove ; thence it runs horizontally outwards to the inner commissure of the eyelids, where it divides into two thin fibrous lamella!, which diverge and terminate on the tarsi. One surface of the ligament is subcutaneous ; the other crosses the lachrymal sac, to which it is closely adherent, a little above the centre, and from it a process is given off, which passes on the posterior side of the sac to be attached to the crest on the lachrymal bone. The external tarsal ligament is a much weaker structure connecting the eyelids to the malar bone. The tensor tarsi (muse, sacci lachrymalis, Horner) is regarded by VOL. I. T274 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 194. Fig. 194.—Superficial and deep muscles of the head and neck, from before (altered from Bourgery). (A. T.) ^ On tlie left side, the platysma alone has been removed ; on the right side, portions of the zygomatic arch and clavicle, the superficial muscles of the cranium and face, the masseter, trapezius, sterno-mastoid and pectoralis major muscles have been removed ; a, lower lateral cartilage of the nose ; b, upon the lobe of the right ear, points to the coronoid process of the lower jaw ; c, body of the hyoid bone ; d, symphysis of the lower jaw; c, upon the groove of the first rib, lying in which is the cut end of the subclavian artery ; /, the glenoid cavity of the scapula ; g, base of the right zygoma; h, temporal crest of the frontal bone ; i, orbital arch ; 1, frontalis muscle ; 2, superior auricular ; 2', anterior auricular ; 3, corrugator supercilii ; 4, orbital portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; 4', palpebral portion ; below i, the expanded insertion of the levator palpebrse superioris in the eyelid ; 5, pyramidalis nasi; 6, insertion of the compressors naris on the dorsum of the nose ; 7, levator labii superioris alasque nasi; 8, left half of the orbicularis oris ; 8', outer part of the same on the right side, the inner part being removed; 9, levator labii superioris; +, zygomaticus minor; 10, zygomaticus major; 11, depressor anguli oris; 12, depressor labii inferioris ; d, cut ends of the levatores menti; 13, placed on the left275 MUSCLES OF THE EYELIDS AND EYEBROWS. masseter, points to the buccinator; 13', buccinator of the right side, a portion of the parotid duct passing through the muscle ; 14, levator anguli oris, seen also on the left side behind the zygomatieus minor ; 15, sterno-mastoid, its sternal head, and 15', its clavi- cular head ; 16, sterno-hyoid ; 17, posterior, 17', anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and 17", portion of the deep fascia binding down its central tendon ; 18, sterno-thyroid ; 19, thyro-hyoid ; 20, part of constrictors of pharynx ; 22, trapezius ; 25, levator scapulae ; 26, scalenus posticus ; 27, scalenus medius ; 28, scalenus anticus ; 29, 29', pectoralis major ; 30, pectoralis minor. many anatomists as only a deep origin of tlie palpebral part of the orbi- cularis muscle. It consists of a thin layer of fibres, which springs from the lachrymal crest behind the sac and, passing outwards and forwards, divides into two slips which are continued behind the lachrymal canals into the ciliary bundles of the orbicularis. The corrugator supercilii is a small, deeply-coloured muscle, placed at the inner side of the eyebrow, under cover of the orbicularis and frontalis muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge of the frontal bone ; thence its fibres proceed outwards and upwards, diverging somewhat, and end about the middle of the orbital arch, by passing between the bundles of the orbicularis and frontalis, and becoming inserted into the deep surface of the skin of the eyebrow. Relations.—This muscle rests upon the frontal bone, and it crosses the supra- trochlear branch of the ophthalmic nerve and the accompanying- vessels, as they emerge from the orbit. The levator palpebrse superioris lies in the upper part of the orbit. Its tendon only is seen in the dissection of the npper eyelid, in which it forms a broad expansion which curves downwards, and ends under cover of the orbicularis muscle and palpebral ligament by becoming blended with the fibrous tarsus. It will be fully described along with the muscles of the orbit (p. 281). Actions.—The palpebral part of the orbicularis closes the eyelids, the upper lid ordinarily moving much more freely than the lower. The upper half of the orbital part depresses the eyebrow, and stretches the skin of the forehead, opposing the frontalis muscle ; the lower half of this part raises the skin of the cheek, and gives rise to wrinkles below and outside the eye. The whole muscle comes into play in forcible closure of the eye, the orbital part then drawing up the surround- ing skin and pressing the lids firmly together, while they at the same time are carried somewhat inwards towards the fixed part of the muscle. In closing the lids, as in winking, the contraction of the palpebral part of the orbicularis carries forwards the internal tarsal ligament and anterior wall of the lachrymal sac, which is thus dilated and sucks in the tears. The tensor tarsi muscle, accord- ing to one view, contracts simultaneously with the orbicularis, and draws back- wards the puncta lachrymalia, disposing them more favourably for the admission of the tears ; but it appears more probable that the tensor alternates in its action with the orbicularis, and that, by drawing backwards the tarsal ligament, it com- presses the sac, and so propels the tears along the nasal duct into the nose. The corrugator muscle draws the skin of the outer part of the forehead downwards and inwards, producing longitudinal furrows at the inner end of the eyebrow, as in frowning. The upper eyelid is supported by the levator palpebree, and droops when that muscle is paralysed. On the other hand, paralysis of the orbicularis is attended by an inability to close the eyelids. MUSCLES OF THE NOSE. Under this head may be conveniently grouped not only the compressor naris and smaller muscles which act upon the nose alone, but also the pyramidalis nasi which acts on the forehead and the common elevator of the lip and wing of the nose. t 2276 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The pyramidalis nasi, placed over the nasal bone, appears to be a prolongation of the inner part of the frontalis ; its fibres, however, decussate with those of the latter muscle, and are attached to the skin at the lower and mesial part of the forehead. It widens slightly as it descends, and terminates in a tendinous expansion common to it and the compressor naris. The compressor naris, a thin triangular muscle, arises narrow and fleshy from the facial surface of the superior maxillary bone by the side of the anterior nasal aperture ; proceeding forwards and inwards it gradually expands into a thin aponeurosis, which is blended with that of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis nasi above, being closely attached to the skin of the nose, but only connected by loose areolar tissue to the subjacent cartilages. It is concealed at its origin by the muscle next described. The levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the common elevator of the lip and nose, lies along the side of the nose, extending from the inner margin of the orbit to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, as it descends, separates into two fasciculi; one of these, much the smaller, is inserted into the wing of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip, where it is attached to the skin and becomes blended with the orbicularis and the special elevator muscle. It is subcutaneous, except at its origin, where the orbicularis palpebrarum overlaps it a little. Fig. 195.—Muscles of toe side of toe nose and upper lip. (A. T., after Arnold.) § 1, pyramidalis nasi; 2, levator labii superioris alssque nasi; 3, compressor naris ; 4, levator proprius als nasi anterior ; 5, levator proprius alas nasi posterior ; 6, depressor alse nasi; 7, septal origin of orbicularis oris. The depressor alse nasi is a small flat muscle which arises from the incisor fossa of the superior maxilla, and is inserted into the septum and posterior part of the ala of the nose. Some fibres are continued from the outer part of this muscle into the compressor naris. Besides the muscles above described there are other irregular and often indistinct fibres which enlarge the orifice of the nose. Of these the following may be distinguished. The levator proprius alee nasi posterior, or dilatator naris posterior, is attached to the lateral margin of the nasal aperture and the smaller (sesamoid) cartilages of the nose on the one hand, and to the skin on the other. Another set of fibres, the levator proprius alse nasi anterior, or dilatator naris anterior, runs from the cartilage of the aperture of the nose to the skin at the margin of the nostril. The fibres of both of these muscles are very pale and often indistinct. Varieties.—Absence of the pyramidalis has been observed. The compressor naris is sometimes very slightly developed, or even reduced to an aponeurotic condition. The dilators and depressor of the nostril are also subject to considerable variations in strength and in the mode of their attachment. The musculus277 MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AXD MOUTH. anomalies of Albums is a longitudinal muscular slip frequently present, lying beneath the common elevator of the lip and nose. It springs with the latter muscle from the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and ends below on the same bone in connection with the origin of the compressor naris. Actions.—The pyramidalis nasi muscle takes its fixed point from below and draws down the integument of the forehead, producing wrinkles across the root of the nose. The compressor naris, acting along with its fellow of the other side, depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose, and to some extent also com- presses the aim together. The actions of the other muscles are sufficiently indicated by their names; tho dilatation of the aim is seldom perceptible in natural inspiration, but is well-marked in dyspneea. MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. Around tlie orifice of the mouth is situated an orbicular muscle with concentric fibres, and this is joined by numerous other muscles which converge towards the aperture, viz., superiorly, the common elevator of the lip and nose already described, the proper elevator of the upper lip, the elevator of the angle of the mouth and the zygomatic muscles, laterally, the risorius and buccinator muscles, and interiorly, the depressor of the angle of the mouth and that of the lower lip ; and lastly, acting indirectly on the lower lip is the levator menti. The orbicularis oris muscle, or sphincter oris, consists of labial and facial parts. The labial or marginal part occupies the red part of the lips, and forms a slightly convex fasciculus of pale fine fibres which are free from bony attachment, and can be traced from one lip to another round the corner of the mouth. The facial part, thinner and wider than the other, blends by its outer border with the several muscles that converge to the mouth, and receives fibres from them, especially from the buccinator, the fibres of which are continued into the deeper part of the orbicularis. Besides these fibres it has others that are attached to the subjacent cartilage and bone ; viz., in the upper lip two bundles for each half ; and in the lower lip one for each. In the upper lip the outer slip, thin and weak, passes downwards, and is attached to the incisor fossa of the upper jaw-bone below the depressor alae nasi; while the other, thick and pointed, passes upwards and is fixed to the septum of the nose. In the lower lip the reinforcing fasciculus arises from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw external to the levator menti, and passing upwards and outwards towards the angle of the mouth, its fibres blend with the rest of the muscle. Relations.—The skin of the lips is closely connected to the inner part of the orbicularis oris muscle, whilst over the outer part fatty tissue is interposed be- tween them. The deep surface is in contact with the mucous membrane and the labial glands, as well as with the coronary arterial arch in each lip. The levator labii superioris proprius muscle arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately above the infraorbital foramen, and from the adjoining surface of the malar bone ; it passes downwards and a little inwards to be inserted into the skin of the upper lip and the orbicularis muscle. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is overlapped by the orbicularis palpe- brarum, but its greater part is subcutaneous ; it partly conceals the levator anguli oris, and beneath it the infraorbital vessels and nerve emerge from the canal of the same name. Its inner border is generally united with the common elevator . of the lip and nose.MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 278 The levator anguli oris, or musculus caninus, arises in the canine fossa immediately below the infraorbital foramen, inclines down- wards and slightly outwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it becomes blended with the fibres of the orbicularis, zygomaticus major and depressor anguli oris. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is concealed by the proper elevator of the upper lip ; its anterior surface supports the infraorbital nerve and artery, which separate it from the preceding muscle ; the posterior surface lies on the superior maxilla and the buccinator muscle. The zygomatici are two narrow and subcutaneous fasciculi of mus- cular fibres, extending obliquely from the most prominent part of the cheek towards the angle of the mouth, one being thicker and longer than the other. The zygomaticus minor, a very small muscle, arises from the an. terior and inferior part of the malar bone, and inclines downwards and forwards to terminate by joining the outer margin of the levator labii superioris ; sometimes near the origin of that muscle. The zygomaticus major, placed externally to the smaller muscle of the same name, arises from the malar bone near the zygomatic suture, from which it descends to the angle of the mouth, where it is partly inserted into the skin aud partly continued into the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris. Varieties.—The zygomaticus minor is frequently absent ; or it may fall short of the mouth, and be inserted into the fascia of the cheek. It may arise wholly or in part from the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it has also been observed fused with the zygomaticus major, or the levator labii superioris, or even united to the outer fibres of the frontalis (Eustachius). It has frequently been found double. The zygomaticus major has also been found double, or it may be double merely at its insertion. Sometimes it arises from the masseteric fascia below the zygoma (Maealister). Absence of the muscle has also been observed. The risorius (Santorini), or smiling muscle, is generally regarded as a part of the platysma myoides. It consists of some very thin fasciculi, which commence in the fascia over the masseter, or on the parotid gland, and, extending transversely inwards in the fat of the cheek, join the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris at the angle of the mouth. Varieties.—The risorius is often absent. It has been seen to arise from the integument over the upper end of the sterno-mastoid (Hallet) ; from the zygoma (McWhinnie) ; from the external ear (Albinus) ; and from the fascia over the mastoid process (Maealister). It was found double and even triple by Santorini. The lower and lateral part of the face receives a superficial muscular covering from the facial part of the platysma myoides, which is incor- porated with the muscles of the angle of the mouth and lower lip, and passes along with the superficial fascia over the base of the jaw into the cervical portion of the muscle; the anterior portion of the cervical platysma, on the other hand, though continuous externally with the facial, takes firm attachment to the base of the jaw for a length of two inches or more external to the symphysis. The bmccinator muscle consists of a flat and thin but strong set of fibres in contact with the mucous membrane, and forming a considerable part of the wall of the mouth. It is attached by its upper and lower margins to the outer surface of the alveolar parts of the maxillary bones.279 MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. Fig. 196. Fig. 196.—Deep muscles op the left side op the head and neck (modified from Bourgery). (A. T.) i a, vertex of liead ; h, superior curved line of occipital bone ; c, ramus of lower jaw ; c', its coronoid process ; d, body of byoid bone ; e, sternal end of clavicle ; e1, acromial end ; /, malar bone divided to show the insertion of the temporal muscle ; /', divided zygoma, and external lateral ligament of the jaw ; g, thyroid cartilage ; h, placed on the lobe of the auricle, points to the styloid process; 1, temporal muscle; 2, corrugator supercilii ; 3, pyramidal is nasi; 4, compressor naris; 5, levator labii superioris ; 6, levator anguli oris; 7, outer part of the orbicularis oris, the part below the nose has been removed ; 8, depressor alse nasi ; 9, points to the buccinator muscle, through which the parotid duct is seen passing ; 10, depressor labii inferioris ; 11, levator menti ; 12, 12, anterior and posterior bellies of the digastric ; 13, stylo-hyoid muscle ; 14, mylo-hyoid ; 15, hyo-glossus, between which and 13, is seen a part of the stylo-glossus ; 16, sterno- hyoid ; 17, on the clavicle, indicates the posterior, and 17', the anterior belly of the omo- hyoid ; 18, sterno-thyroid ; 19, thyro-hyoid ; 20, 21, on the sterno-mastoid muscle, point, the first to the middle, the second to the lower constrictor of the pharynx ; 22, trapezius ; 23, upper part of the complexus ; 24, 25, splenius ; 26, levator scapulse ; 27, middle scalenus ; +, posterior scalenus ; 28, anterior scalenus.MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 2S0 opposite the molar teeth, and by its posterior margin to the pterygo- maxillary ligament, a narrow band of tendinous fibres, which extends from the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate to the mylo- hyoid ridge of the lower jaw close to the last molar tooth, and is placed between the buccinator muscle and the superior constrictor of the pharynx (fig. 203, p. 297). From these parts the fibres of the muscle are directed forwards, approaching each other, so that the muscle is narrowed and proportionally thickened near the angle of the mouth, where it becomes incorporated with the orbicularis. The fibres near the middle of the muscle cross each other, those from above passing into the lower lip, and those from below into the upper one ; but the higher and lower fibres are directed into the corresponding lip without decussation. Relations.—The buccinator is covered and supported by a thin fascia, which is closely adherent to the muscular fibres ; and is overlapped by the depressor anguli oris, by the upper fibres of the platysma myoides, and by the masseter and zygo- maticus major, from which it is separated by a quantity of soft fat. Opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, its fibres give passage to the duct of the parotid gland. The depressor anguli oris, or triangularis menti muscle, is broad at its origin from the external oblique line of the lower jaw ; passing upwards it is collected into a narrower bundle, which joins the orbicularis and other muscles at the angle of the mouth. Relations.—This muscle is covered only by the skin and fat; it conceals part of the buccinator and of the depressor of the lower lip. Variety.—The transversus menti (Santorini) is a small band of muscular fibres sometimes found arising from the inner border of the depressor, and curving downwards and inwards below the chin across the mesial line to the corresponding part of the opposite side. The depressor labii inferior is, or quadratus menti muscle, arises from the lower jaw by a line of attachment extending from near the sym- physis to a little beyond the mental foramen ; thence it ascends with an inward inclination, unites with its fellow, and blending with the orbicularis oris is inserted into the lower lip. Its fibres are intermixed with much adipose matter. The levator lafoii inferioris, or levator menti muscle, arises by a narrow head from the incisor fossa of the lower jaw, and expands as it is directed downwards and slightly forwards, between the depressors of the lower lip, to be inserted into the integument of the chin. Serves.—All the superficial muscles of the scalp and face previously described receive their motor fibres from one source, viz., the facial or seventh cranial nerve. The expression of the passions by the varying states of the skin of the forehead and eyebrows, the nostrils and mouth, the closure of the eyelids, the dilatation of the nostrils in breathing, and the movements of the lips in the prehension of food and otherwise, together with the movements of the scalp and external ear, vdien they are possible,—are all under the influence of this nerve, which was therefore considered by Sir Charles Bell to be a special nerve of respiration and expression. Actions.—The orbicularis oris acting alone draws the lips together in both the vertical and transverse directions. Acting in conjunction with the buccinators it closes the lips, while at the same time they are elongated transversely. Its facial portion acting alone projects the lips. The labial portion, wdien acting in concert with the converging muscles, tightens the lips, one or both, against the teeth. The convergent muscles each draw their oral points of insertion in a direction corresponding to that of their muscular fibres. The common elevator of the lijJMUSCLES OF THE ORBIT. 2S1 and nose and tlie depressor alee nasi act on the upper lip and the wing- of the nose together—the one raising, the other depressing them. "When the cheeks are distended with air, and the aperture of the lips narrowed, it is by the action of the buccinator that the forced expulsion of the air is regulated. The buccinator also flattens the cheek and keeps the food between the teeth during mastication. The levator menti draws upwards the integument of the chin and protrudes the lower lip, as in pouting. The muscles attached to the angles of the mouth are, along with others of the face, intimately connected with the expression of the passions : those which pass downwards not only raise the upper lip, but also push upwards the cheek, and thus elevate the margin of the lower eyelid, as in mirth ; and those which ascend to the angle of the mouth depress that part, as in grief. (On the action of the facial muscles may be consulted, more especially, Sir Charles Bell, “ Anatomy and Philosophy of Expression ; ” Duchenne, “ Mecanisme de la Physionomie Humaine,” Paris, 1862 ; and C. Darwin, “ Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals.”) MUSCLES O F THE ORBIT. In this group will he described seven muscles, namely, the elevator of the upper eyelid before referred to, and six muscles of the eyeball, viz., the four straight and the two oblique muscles. Of these muscles, the inferior oblique alone is confined to the fore part of the orbit; all the others take their origin at its back part, and pass forwards to their insertion. The levator palpebraa superioris is a slender muscle which arises, pointed and tendinous, above and in front of the margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards over the eyeball, ends in a membranous expansion which is inserted into the fibrous tarsus of the upper eyelid. Relations.—Between this muscle and the roof'of the orbit are situated the fourth and frontal nerves and the supraorbital vessels, and beneath it are the superior rectus and the globe of the eye. On entering the lid, it is placed behind the palpebral ligament, and its deep surface rests on the conjunctiva. The four straight muscles of the eye have a continuous tendinous origin at the bottom of the orbit, in the form of an oval ring which, commencing above, passes down on the inner side to the lower margin of the optic foramen, then stretches transversely across the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure to. be attached to its lower border, where a prominent bony point is generally developed, and finally is completed by again crossing the sphenoidal fissure, this time about the middle and vertically, to gain the upper edge of the optic foramen. The superior rectus springs from the part of this ring above or in front of the optic foramen, and beneath the levator palpebrte : the internal rectus arises on the inner side of and below the optic foramen : the inferior rectus springs mainly from a fibrous band occupying the inner part of the sphenoidal fissure ; and the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads of origin, the lower and larger of which arises from the above-mentioned fibrous band and the prominent spine on the lower border of the sphenoidal fissure, being joined with the inferior rectus, while the upper is attached with the superior rectus between the sphenoidal fissure and the optic foramen ; between the two bony origins fibres spring also from a tendinous arch over the fissure. The four recti thus attached posteriorly, pass forwards, one above, one below, and one on each side of the eyeball, becoming flattened as they lie in contact with it, and are inserted by short membranous and slightly expandedMUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 197. 282 tendons into the fore part of the sclerotic coat, at a distance of from three to four lines from the margin of the cornea. The external and inferior recti exceed the other two in length. On the other hand, the internal rectus is the broadest, and the superior the narrowest of all. At their insertions the internal is nearest to, and the superior is farthest from the edge of the cornea (Cruveilhier). Between the heads of the external rectus is a narrow interval which gives passage to the third and sixth nerves and the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, with the ophthalmic vein. The superior oblique or trochlearis is a narrow elongated muscle, placed at the upper and inner part of the orbit, internally to the levator paJpebrte. It arises about a line in front of the inner part of the optic foramen; thence it proceeds towards the front of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon which passes through a fibro-cartilaginous ring or pulley (trochlea) attached to the trochlear fossa of the frontal hone ; it is there reflected outwards, backwards and downwards, and passes between the eye and the superior rectus to be inserted into the sclerotic coat a little beyond the outer edge of that muscle, and midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Relations.—This muscle is in contact with the roof of the orbit, the fourth nerve entering its upper surface; and beneath it lie the nasal nerve and the Fig. 197.—A VIEW OP THE MUSCLES OP THE 1UGHT ORBIT, FROM THE OUTSIDE, THE OUTER WALL HAVING BEEN RE- MOVED. (A. T.) ^ B, Explanatory sketch op the same muscles. a, orbital arch ; b, lower margin of the orbit; c, anterior clinoid process ; d, posterior part of the floor of the orbit above the spheno-maxillary fossa ; e, side of the body of the sphenoid hone below the optic foramen and sphenoidal fissure ; /, maxillary sinus ; 1, levator palpebros superioris, near its insertion ; 2, pulley and tendon of the superior oblique muscle ; 3, tendon of the superior rectus muscle at its insertion upon the eyeball; 4, in A, external rectus ; 4', in B, tendon of in- sertion of the same muscle, a large part of which has been removed ; the double origin of the muscle is shown at the apex of the orbit; 5, inferior oblicpie muscle crossing the eyeball below the inferior rectus ; 6, inferior rectus ; 7, in B, the internal rectus, and near it, the end of the optic nerve cut short close to the place of its entrance into the eye- ball. internal rectus muscle. The pulley is lined by a synovial sheath, and from its outer border an investment of firm connective tissue is prolonged on the tendon as far as the eyeball. The inferior oblique arises from a minute depression in the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone, just within the anterior margin o the orbit, and close outside the orifice of the nasal duct. I fie muscleMUSCLES OF THF OEBIT. 2S3 inclines outwards, backwards and upwards, passing between the inferior rectus and the floor of the orbit, and ends in a tendinous expansion which is inserted, under cover of the external rectus, into the eyeball at its posterior and outer part, and nearer to the optic nerve than the superior oblique. Varieties.—The levator palpebroe sometimes gives off a slip from its inner border, which passes to be inserted into the trochlea, forming the tensor troclilcai of Budge. Absence of the levator palpebrse has been observed (Macalister). The muscles of the eye seldom vary. The external rectus has been seen :—with its two heads separate to their insertion, thus forming a double muscle (Albinus) ; with absence of its outer (upper ?) head (Macalister); and giving slips to the outer wall of the orbit and the lower eyelid (Cumow). The transversus orbitce (Bochdalek) is an arched slip of muscular fibres passing from the orbital plate of the ethmoid across the upper surface of the eyeball to the outer wall of the orbit. It is probably, as Macalister suggests, a displaced deep slip of the palpebral fibres of the orbicularis. Nerves.—Five of the muscles of the orbit, viz., levator palpebrae superioris, the superior, internal and inferior recti, and the inferior oblique, are under the influence of the third or common oculo-motor nerve ; the external rectus is supplied by the sixth or abducent ocular, and the superior oblique by the fourth or trochlear nerve. Actions.—The levator palpcbrce superior is is simply an elevator of the upper eyelid; acting as the antagonist of the upper palpebral part of the orbicularis muscle. The eyeball is so situated in the structures which surround it in the orbit that it is capable of free motion on a central fixed point; but it does not appear to shift its place as a whole within the orbit, at least to any extent, nor to undergo perceptible change of form from the action of the muscles. The position of the point round which the movements of the eyeball take place is nearly in the centre of curvature of the posterior wall, and from half a line to a line behind the middle of the antero-posterior axis of the eyeball. The movements of the eyeball may be conveniently reduced to four kinds, viz., 1, simple lateral movements in a horizontal plane ; 2, simple movements of eleva- tion or depression ; 3, oblique movements of elevation or depression ; and 4, move- ments of rotation. In the first two kinds the vertical meridian of the eye is not subject to any change of inclination ; in the third kind the movements of direction are accompanied by a small amount of inclination of the vertical meri- dian to one or other side ; and in the fourth kind, when simple, the whole move- ment is one of inclination of the vertical meridian. These movements, however, unless perhaps the first, are seldom simple, but more frequently different kinds i are combined together. The three first kinds constitute the various movement1/ of direction by which the visual axis is turned within certain limits to various points in space ; the extent of motion being about 90* in the vertical and 100° in the horizontal direction. Simple movements of rotation do not appear to occui to any considerable extent, and it has been ascertained by experiment that they are not sufficient, as was supposed by Hueck and others, to maintain the eyeballs in a fixed position during inclined movements of the head. In these different movements the six muscles of the eyeball may advantageously I be considered as acting in three pairs. 1st. In the horizontal movements the I internal and external recti muscles are the sole agents, the one acting as an adductor and the other as an abductor ; and this movement they effect without any rotation, their line of action being exactly in the horizontal plane of the eye- ball. 2nd. It is different with the superior and inferior recti; for while these muscles undoubtedly are respectively the most direct elevators and depressors of ' the cornea, they have both a tendency, from the line of their action being to the inner side of the centre of motion of the eyeball, to produce inward direction II with a small amount of rotation. This tendency is corrected by the association of the oblique muscles in all upward and downward movements ; the inferior oblique being associated with the superior, and the superior oblique with the284: MUSCLES OF*THE HEAD AND NECK. eye in Vol. II. inferior rectus muscle. The simple action of the superior oblique muscle, when the eye is directed straight forward, is to produce a movement of the cornea downwards and outwards, that of the inferior oblique to direct the cornea upwards and outwards, and in both with a certain amount of rotation, though in different directions in the two cases. But these movements caused by the oblique muscles are precisely those which are required to neutralise the inward direction and rotatory movements produced by the superior or the inferior rectus, and accord- ingly, by the combined action of the superior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles a straight upward movement is effected, while a similar effect in the downward direction results from the combined action of the inferior rectus and superior oblique muscles. It has been further shown that in all the oblique movements of direction a tombination takes place of the action of the oblique with that of the straight Jauscles. Here, however, two recti muscles are in action and are associated with one oblique muscle; as, for example, in the upward and inward direction, the superior and internal recti with the inferior oblique ; and in the downward and inward direction the inferior and internal recti with the superior oblique. And the same is true of the upward and outward and downward and outward move- ments of direction ; for in all these movements the action of the oblique muscles is necessary to control or supplement the rotatory tendency of the recti muscles ; and in the consentaneous movements of the two eyes the whole six muscles must co-operate in both eyes to produce that perfect agreement in their move- ments of direction and convergence which is required for perfect vision. It is unnecessary here to enter into the detail of the modifications of these actions of the muscles which must accompany changes in the various consenta- neous movements of the eyes, as, for example, in the convergence which is asso- ciated with the adjustment of the eyes to near and distant vision. (Consult M. Foster, “ Text-book of Physiology ” ; Bonders, “ On the anomalies of Accommo- dation,” &c. Syd. Soc. 1864; Helmholtz, Proc. Boy. Soc. xiii. 186, and “Physio- logical Optics,” and Hering in Hermann’s “ Handbuch der Physiologie,” Bd. iii.) Fasciae of the orbit.—The space within the orbit which is not occupied by the eyeball and its muscles, or other parts belonging to it, is completely filled with soft fat and delicate yielding connective tissue. In various places this last is condensed into layers of slender fascia of various degrees of strength, the principal of which is that known as the fascia or capsule of Tenon, a thin mem- brane surrounding the greater part of the eyeball, and forming the wall of a socket in which the globe plays. The fascia is perforated behind by the optic nerve and ciliary vessels and nerves, there becoming continuous with the connective tissue investing those structures, and in front it extends nearly as far as the cornea, where it ends by being attached to the ocular conjunctiva. Its inner surface is connected to the sclerotic coat of the eye only by delicate bundles of yielding connective tissue, the two being separated for the most part by an extensive lymph-space, so that it seems to serve all the purposes of a synovial membrane in the movements of the globe. The fascia is also pierced by the muscles of the eyeball near their insertions, and it sends a tubular prolongation on each of these, which speedily degenerates, however, into a simple areolar investment, except in the case of the sheath on the tendon of the superior oblique, which is stronger than the others and is continued as far as the pulley. The sheaths of the recti adhere closely to the muscular substance, and from their outer part expansions are given off to the margin of the orbit, which serve to limit the degree of contraction of the muscles. The processes from the sheaths of the inner and outer recti are stronger than the other two, especially the external, which is attached to the malar bone and external tarsal ligament. The inner expansion is fixed to the crest of the lachrymal bone ; and the upper one is connected also with the tendon of the levator palpebixe, so that the superior rectus is thus enabled to exercise some influence upon the upper eyelid (Sappey, “ Traite d’Anatom, descrip.” t. ii.; v. Gerlach, “ Beitrage zur norm. Anat. des menschl. Auges,” Leipzig, 1SS0). Certain collections of involuntary muscular fibres that are contained in the eye- lids and wall of the orbit will be noticed in connection with the anatomy of the:S5 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. MUSCLES OP MASTICATION, The masseter, temporal, and two pterygoid muscles form a gi-oup of muscles of mastication, which may be properly considered together. The masseteric fascia is a continuation upwards of the deep fascia of the neck over the masseter muscle. It is firmly bound down to the outer surface of the muscle, and is attached superiorly to the zygoma. Farther back the fascia invests closely the parotid gland (parotid fascia), on the posterior and deep surfaces of which a process is also sent upwards; a strong band of this process, the stylo-maxillary ligament, extending from the angle of the jaw to the styloid process, separates the parotid and submaxillary glands. The masseter (fig. 194, 13) is a thick quadrate muscle, the fibres of which form two portions differing in size and direction. The superficial part, obliquely foursided in form, arises from the lower border of the zygo- matic arch for the anterior two-thirds, chiefly by thick tendinous bundles projecting down between the muscular fasciculi, to which they afford an extensive surface of origin : its fibres proceed downwards and back- wards to be inserted into the lower half of the ramus of the jaw, extend- ing as far as the angle. The deep part of the muscle, of a triangular form, consists of fibres which are much shorter than those of the super- ficial part, and are directed nearly vertically downwards. They arise from the posterior third of the lower border and from all the deep sur- face of the zygomatic arch, and, becoming united with the superficial part, are inserted into the upper half of the ramus of the jaw, including the coronoid process : only the upper and back part of this portion of the muscle is left uncovered by the superficial portion. Relations.—The external surface of the masseter muscle is covered for the most part only by the skin and fascia, tog-ether with, in the lower half, the platysma myoides ; it is, however, overlapped behind by the parotid gland, and crossed by its duct; some branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery also rest upon it. The fore part of its inner surface is towards the buccinator, from which it is separated by soft adipose tissue ; the greater part is in close contact with the ramus of the jaw, and covers a nerve and vessels which enter it through the sigmoid notch of that bone. The temporal fascia is a dense white shining aponeurosis, which covers the temporal muscle above the zygoma, and gives attachment to some of its fibres of origin. It is attached superiorly to the temporal crest of the frontal bone and to the upper of the two lines on the parietal bone ; w'hile interiorly it is divided into two layers which are separated by a small quantity of fat, and are attached respectively to the inner and outer surfaces of the zygomatic arch close to its upper border. This dense fascia is separated from the integuments by the layer of thin membrane descending from the epicranial aponeurosis, and by the auricular muscles ; and from the temporal muscle, at the lower part, by a layer of fat. The temporal muscle (fig. 196, 1) is fan-shaped, and arises from the whole surface of the temporal fossa, with the exception of the anterior or malar wall, and from the deep surface of the temporal fascia, except close to the zygomatic arch ; some of its posterior fibres arising from this fascia blend with the deep fibres of the masseter muscle. The direction of the anterior fibres is nearly vertical, that of the middle fibres oblique, and that of the posterior fibres at first almost horizontal. The fibres converge286 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 198.—The pterygoid Fig. 198. as they descend, and terminate mostly in a tendon, which is implanted into the upper and anterior borders of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, while the deeper fibres have a fleshy insertion into the inner side of the process, reaching down .to the union of the ramus and body of the jaw. Relations.—Tlie upper part of the muscle is closely covered by the temporal fascia; the lower and anterior part is imbedded in fat continuous with that which lies between the masseter and buccinator muscles. Between the muscle and the bone of the temporal fossa are the deep temporal arteries and nerves, which penetrate its substance. In contact with the deep surface of the muscle near its insertion the buccal nerve descends, and at the posterior border of the in- sertion the masseteric nerve and artery emerge. The internal pterygoid muscle arises from the pterygoid fossa, its fibres, tendinous and fleshy, being attached mostly to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate, and that portion of the tuberosity of the palate bone which is situated between the pterygoid plates, and by a second smaller slip, lying outside the external pterygoid muscle, from the outer surface of the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxillary bones. Thence it is inclined downwards, with a direction backwards and outwards, and is inserted into the rough mark on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw between the angle and the dental foramen. Relations.—The internal pterygoid muscle is placed on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, somewrhat in the same manner as the masseter lies on the outside. Between the external surface of the muscle and the ramus of the maxilla are the internal lateral ligament and the internal maxillary vessels, with the dental artery and nerve ; and at its upper part the larger head is crossed by the external pterygoid muscle. Its inner surface is in contact with the tensor palati muscle, and with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. MUSCLES FROM OUTSIDE. £ The masseter muscle, the greater portion of the zygo- matic arch, the temporal muscle with the coronoid pro- cess, and a large part of the ramus of the jaw have been removed. 1, external ptery- goid : the figure is placed on the lower head; 2, internal pterygoid. The external ptery- goid muscle, occupying the zygomatic fossa, arises by two fleshy heads placed close to- gether, the superior of whicn is attached to _ the zygomatic surface of the great wing of the sphenoid, and to the infratempoial cxest which separates that surface from the temporal fossa ; while the inferior, which is larger, is attached to the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate. The fibres from both heads pass backwards, and converge to be inserted into the depression on the front of the neck of the lower jaw, aixd into the ixxterarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxillary articulation.287 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. OP THE SKULL AND PACE, FROM BEHIND, Fig. 199. Relations.—The internal maxillary artery is usually placed on the outer surface of this muscle, passing' thence between the heads of origin ; while the buccal nerve issues from between those heads. The deep surface rests against the upper part of the internal pterygoid muscle, the direction of which it crosses, also the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. The upper border is crossed by the deep temporal and masseteric nerves. Varieties.—The pterygoideus proprim (Henle) is a nearly vertical band of muscular and tendinous fibres, sometimes entirely tendinous, passing from the infratemporal crest of the great wing of the sphenoid, over the surface of the external pterygoid muscle, to the lower part of the outer pterygoid plate, or to the tuberosity of the palate or superior maxillary bone. It has been seen sending a slip to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, or even to the lower jaw. Pterygo-spinosus (G.D.T.)—This name may be given to a muscular slip occasion- ally seen, springing from the spine of the sphenoid, and inserted into the hinder margin of the outer pterygoid plate, between the external and internal pterygoid muscles. A fibrous band connecting these parts (pterygo-spinous ligament') is frequently present, and is sometimes converted into bone (cf. p. 45). Fig. 199.—View op the lower part TO SHOW THE ATTACHMENTS OP THE PTERYGOID AND SOME OTHER MUSCLES (modified from Bourgery). (A. T.) J a, body of the sphenoid, below which are seen the posterior nares; b, section through the temporal bone; c, hard palate ; d, back of the head and neck of the lower jaw, above which are seen the synovial cavities of the joint separated by the interarticular fibro-cartilage; e, placed below the symphysis menti ; 1, on the left internal pterygoid muscle ; 1', on the right side, the lower part of the same muscle, of which the middle portion has been removed to show the external ptery- goid ; 2, the lower head of the external pterygoid; 2', on the right side points to the upper head of the muscle, attached in part to the interarticular disc ; 3, small portions of the genio-hyoid and genio-glossus muscles cut short at their attachment to the mental spines ; 4, the attachment of the mylo-hyoid cut short; 5, the attachment of the anterior belly of the digastric ; 6, C, masseter muscles. Nerves.—The four muscles above described receive their nerves from the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary which may be traced to the small or motor root of the fifth nerve. These nerves are named from the muscles they respectively supply. There are two or three branches to the temporal, and one to each of the other muscles. Actions.—The masseter, temporal and internal pterygoid muscles are elevators of the lower jaw, and generally act in concert, bringing the lower teeth forcibly into contact with the upper. The opposite movement of depressing the jaw, not being opposed by any resisting obstacle, requires less force, and is effected by muscles of much smaller size, the principal of which is the digastric muscle hereafter described. The external pterygoid muscle, having the great body of its fibres nearly horizontal, draws forwards the condyle of the jaw, and, when the muscles of both sides act together, the lower jaw is protruded so as to make the lower incisor teeth project beyond the upper; but their more usual mode of action is alternately on the two sides, as in the grinding movement of the molar teeth, in which the horizontal movements of the external pterygoids are associated with the elevating actions of the other muscles. The hinder portion of the temporal muscle retracts the jaw, and is thus the antagonist of the external pterygoid.2S8 MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK, SUBCUTANEOUS MUSCLE OP THE NECK. The platysma myoides (fig. 193, 14) is a pale-coloured thin sheet of muscular fibres, superficial to the deep cervical fascia, and extending over the front and side of the neck and lower portion of the side of the face. Its fibres rise by thin bands from the subcutaneous tissue over the upper part of the deltoid, pectoral, and trapezius muscles; thence they proceed upwards and inwards over the clavicle and the side of the neck, gradually converging and approaching the muscle of the opposite side. The greater number of the fibres are inserted into the outer surface of the lower jaw from the mental prominence to the attachment of the nrasseter ; some of the inner fibres mingle with those of the opposite platysma in front of the symphysis, and the innermost fibres of all cross from the one side to the other below the chin, those of the right side being generally superficial, and are attached to the lower border of the jaw opposite the mental prominence ; the posterior fibres are pro- longed upon the side of the face as far as the angle of the mouth, blending with the depressor anguli oris and orbicularis muscles. Varieties.—The muscular fibres of the platysma sometimes extend upwards on the face and downwards on the neck, shoulder and breast farther than usual; and they occasionally take attachment to the clavicle. The upper part of the muscle is occasionally joined by a slip from the mastoid process, or from the occipital bone, and the frequently occurring- muscular fasciculus known as the occipitalis minor, springing from the fascia over the upper end of the trapezius, and ending- similarly over the insertion of the stemo-mastoid, is probably a less developed form of this accessory slip of the platysma. Suppression of the platysma on one or both sides is recorded by Macalister. This muscle is the representative in man of a subcutaneous group of muscles, the panniculus carnosus, largely developed in most mammals, by which very varied movements of the skin and some superficial parts may be effected, as, for example, when the horse communicates a rapid motion to the skin to free itself from insects, or the dog shakes off the water after swim- ming, or the hedgehog elevates its spines. Nerves.—The platysma receives its principal motor nerves from the descending branches of the facial, but as this unites -with the superficial cervical nerve it may also be influenced through some of the spinal nerves. Action.—The platysma raises the skin of the breast and shoulder and draws the angle of the mouth forcibly downwards and outwards ; at the same time it carries the skin of the neck forwards, reducing the angle between the chin and neck. The muscle is put into action in swallowing, and is also called into play in expressing sudden terror. MUSCLES AND PASCIZE OP THE NECK ANTERIORLY. Fascia:.—The deep cervical fascia passes forwards from the upper border of the trapezius muscle over the side and front of the neck beneath the platysma myoides. Posteriorly it is continuous with the layers of connective tissue by which the trapezius and deeper muscles are invested ; it extends over the posterior triangle of the neck, viz., the space bounded by the trapezius and sterno-mastoid muscles and the clavicle : at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid it divides into two layers, which form an investment for that muscle ; these unite again at the anterior border into a membrane which passes forwards to the middle line, wdiere it becomes continuous with the fascia of the opposite side, and covers the area bounded by the middle line, the border of the jaw, and the sterno-mastoid muscle, and calledVOL. I. XT MUSCLES AND FASCI2E OF THE NECK ANTERIORLY. 2S9 the anterior triangle. In the posterior triangle the fascia is attached interiorly to the clavicle, and near that bone is perforated by the external jugular vein, which in the previous part of its course lies on the surface of the membrane. In the anterior triangle it is bound superiorly to the base of the jaw in front, and farther back is continued super- ficially over the parotid gland (parotid fascia) to the zygoma, sending upwards also a deep process between the submaxillary and parotid glands, in which the stylo-maxillary ligament is developed. Anteriorly the fascia is attached to the hyoid bone, and becoming stronger as it descends, it splits, a little below the level of the thyroid body, into two distinct layers. Of these the more superficial and weaker, running along the sterno-mastoid muscles, is fixed to the sternum and the interclavicular ligament; whilst the stronger layer, lying under the former, and closely covering the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, is attached to the deeper surface of that bone. Between these layers, at the upper border of the sternum, is a small space which extends also a short distance on each side above the clavicle and behind the sternal head of the sterno-mastoid. This space contains some loose connective tissue and fat, and sometimes a small lymphatic gland, and in the lateral recess the anterior jugular vein is directed outwards. Prolonged from the deeper of these two layers, a fascia is found in the posterior triangle, investing the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and binding it down to the clavicle and first rib, where this structure is connected with the costo-coracoid membrane. Still deeper in the anterior triangle a process of the fascia passes behind the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, investing the thyroid body, and extending thence on the trachea and large vessels at the root of the neck down to the fibrous layer of the pericardium. Continuous with the deep processes of the cervical fascia is the carotid sheath, an envelope of fascia enclosing the carotid artery and jugular vein with the pneumo-gastric nerve. A thin fibrous septum intervenes between the artery and vein, thus completing a separate sheath for each. Lastly, thep'evertehral fascia is a layer descending on the prevertebral muscles, and separating them from the pharynx and oesophagus. Laterally this becomes continuous with, or forms, the back of the carotid sheath, and is then prolonged outwards and downwards over the scaleni muscles, the brachial plexus of nerves and the subclavian vessels, which it accom- panies into the upper part of the axilla, thus giving rise to the axillary sheath. Muscles.—Immediately beneath the fascia is a large oblique muscle, extending the whole length of the neck, and named from its attachments the sterno-cleido-mastoid. At a deeper level than this are two sets of muscles situated respectively above and below the hyoid bone. The muscles of the upper set are known as the suprahyoid muscles or elevators of the hyoid bone ; those of the lower set are the infrahyoid muscles or depressors of the hyoid bone. The sterno-cleido-mastoid or sterno-mastoid muscle is attached inferiorly in two parts to the anterior surface of the manubrium and to the inner third of the clavicle on its upper aspect. The sternal head is thick and rounded, tendinous in front and fleshy behind. The clavicular portion, separated from the sternal by a narrow interval, is flat, and is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres. The two portions meet and form a thick prominent muscle, which, extending upwards and backwards, is inserted290 MUSCLES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. superiorly by short tendinous fibres into the anterior border and external surface of the mastoid process, as well as into a rough ridge continued back- wards from that, and by a thin aponeurosis into the outer half or more of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sterno-mastoid muscle divides the quadrilateral space on the side of the neck into two great triangles. Relations.—This muscle is covered for more than the middle three-fifths of its extent by the platysma. It is also crossed by the external jugular vein, and by the great auricular and superficial cervical nerves. It rests below on part of the sterno- hyoid and stemo-thyroid muscles, and crosses the omo-hyoid ; in the middle part of the neck it covers the cervical plexus and the great cervical vessels, and in the upper part, the splenius and digastric muscles. It is pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. Varieties.-—This muscle consists of two parts, sterno-mastoid and cleido- mastoid, which are sometimes described as separate muscles. The cleido-mastoid, the smaller of the two, runs upwards nearly vertically under the sterno-mastoid, and is inserted separately by a rounded tendon into the tip of the mastoid process ; this part is pierced by the spinal accessory nerve. In many cases (37 times in 102 subjects, Wood) a third factor is added, a cleido-occvpitalis, which arises from the clavicle in front of or outside the cleido-mastoid and applies itself to the hinder border of the sterno-mastoid, being inserted in continuation of that along the superior curved line. The clavicular origin of the muscle varies greatly in width, being sometimes as narrow as the sternal, while in other instances it extends for three inches along the bone; in such cases it may be divided into separate slips. In animals without a clavicle the cleido-mastoid is continued into the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle or deltoid, thus forming a cephalo- liumeral muscle. Transversus nuchas.—This name is given by Schulze to a fasciculus of frequent occurrence springing from the external occipital protuberance in connection with the upper end of the trapezius, and inserted into the aponeurosis of the sterno- mastoid. When absent, tendinous fibres run in its place. Supraclavicular is (Luschka).—This is a small muscle not unfrequently met with, lying behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid. It arises by a slender tendon from the upper border of the manubrium, passes upwards and outwards above the sterno-clavicular articulation, and is inserted into the upper surface of the clavicle. When present on both sides the two muscles may be joined in the middle line. Nerves.—The sterno-mastoid receives its principal nervous supply from the spinal accessory, the offsets of which to the muscle are joined by a branch of the second cervical nerve. INFRAHYOID MUSCLES. The sterno-liyoid muscle, a flat baud of longitudinal fibres, arises variably, from the back of the sternum and the posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, from that ligament and the clavicle, or from the clavicle only, and sometimes, to a small extent, from the cartilage of the first rib. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—The muscle is concealed below by the sternum and the sterno- mastoid muscle, higher up by the skin and fascia only ; it lies on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which it partly covers. The inner border approaches that of the corresponding muscle towards the middle of its extent, but is separated from it by a slight interval superiorly, and by a larger interval near the sternum ; the outer margin is in contact with the omo-hyoid near the hyoid bone. Varieties.—Doubling of the sterno-hyoid is occasionally met with, or more rarely an accessory cleido-hyoid muscle, arising from the clavicle, and inserted into the hyoid bone in front of the sterno-hyoid. Absence of the sterno-hyoid on291 INFKAHYOID MUSCLES. one side has been seen (G. D. T.). The muscular fibres are occasionally interrupted by a transverse tendinous intersection at the level of the intermediate tendon of the omo-hyoid, or hr rare cases opposite the insertion of the sterno-tliyioid. The sterno-thyroid, broader find shorter than the preceding muscle, Dehind which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first piece of the sternum, lower down and more internally than the sterno-hyoid, and variably from the first and second rib-cartilages ; it ascends, diverging a little from its fellow, and is inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Fig. 200.—Muscles op the NECK, FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) -A Fig. 200. On the right side, the platys- ma alone has been removed ; on the left side, both bellies of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles have been removed : a, symphysis, b, angle of the lower jaw ; c, body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid process ; e, placed on the front of the thyroid cartil- age, points to the tbyro-hyoid muscle ; /, upper part of the sternum ; g, lateral lobe, and +, isthmus of the thyroid body ; above +, the front of the cricoid cartilage and the crico-thyroid muscle ; 1, pos- terior, and 1', anterior belly of right digastric muscle ; 2, right mylo-hyoid ; 3, left genio-hyoid ; 4, liyo-glossus ; 5, stylo-glossus ; 5', a portion of it seen on the right side ; 6, stylo-hyoid of the right side ; 7, stylo-pharyngeus of the left side ; 8, placed on the levator scapulae, points to the left middle constrictor of pharynx; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor ; right sterno-hyoid; 11, placed on the left sterno-thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the anterior and posterior bellies of the right omo-hyoid. the 10, Relations.—The greater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and the sterno-hyoid muscle, as well as by the sterno-mastoid. By its deep sur- face it rests on the innominate vein, the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the thyroid body. The inner margin is contiguous to the muscle of the other side in the lower part of the neck. Varieties.—The two sterno-thyroid muscles are frequently united across the middle line at their origins. Absence of the muscle has been observed (Macalister), also doubling. It is occasionally partly crossed by transverse or oblique tendinous, lines. At the upper extremity a few fibres are often continued into the thyro- hyoid muscle or into the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. From the outer border a slip is occasionally given off to the sheath of the carotid vessels, covering them as high as the thyroid cartilage (costo-fascialis, Wood). The thyro-hyoid muscle forms a continuation upwards of the pre- ceding ; it arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, u 2202 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. and is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. Relations.—This muscle is concealed in great part by the stemo-hyoid and omo- hyoid ; it rests on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and on the thyro-hyoid mem- brane. Between that membrane and the muscle, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery are placed before entering the larynx. The omo-liyoid is a long- ribbon-shaped muscle, consisting of two bellies united by an intervening tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the suprascapular notch, and occasionally from the ligament which crosses the notch. Thence it extends forwards and only slightly upwards, across the root of the neck, till it passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then, curving rapidly, it ascends nearly vertically, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone immediately outside the sterno-hyoid. The tendon which divides the muscle is placed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and varies much in length and form in different bodies. The tendon is enclosed within the deep cervical fascia, which, after forming a sort of sheath for it, is prolonged downwards, and becomes attached to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib ; and by this means, as also by fascia investing the posterior belly and descending to the clavicle, the muscle is maintained in its bent position. Relations.—At its scapular origin the muscle is covered by the trapezius, in the middle of its course by the sterno-mastoid : the two bellies appear one in each of the triangles of the neck, the anterior crossing the common carotid artery, the pos- terior bounding the small triangle in which the subclavian artery is found ; it also lies over the scaleni muscles, the lower cervical nerves, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, and the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles. Varieties.—These are very frequent. The commonest is an attachment to the clavicle, which may be the sole origin of the posterior belly, or it may be by a super- numerary belly. Complete doubling of the muscle has been observed in a few cases. On the other hand entire absence on both sides is recorded ; also absence of the anterior belly, its place being taken by a band of fascia. The anterior belly is sometimes fused with the sterno-hyoid. Nerves.—The infrahyoid muscles receive their motor nerves mainly from the hypoglossal, the thyro-hyoid by a direct branch from the trunk of the nerve, the rest from the descending branch in combination with the communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves. SUPRAHYOID MUSCLES. The digastric muscle consists of two elongated fleshy bellies united by an intervening rounded tendon. The posterior belly arises from the digastric fossa of the temporal bone, and is directed downwards, forwards and inwards, tapering gradually, towards the hyoid bone: the anterior is attached to a rough depression on the lower border of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis menti; it is shorter and broader than the pos- terior belly, and is directed downwards, backwards, and slightly out- wards. The intervening tendon is connected to the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone by a broad band of aponeurotic fibres and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-hyoid muscle, through which the tendon passes. Relations.—The posterior belly is for the most part concealed by the mastoid293 SUPRAHYOID MUSCLES. process, the sterno-mastoid and splenius muscles, and the parotid gland; it crosses the internal and external carotid arteries, with the internal jugular vein and accompanying nerves. The anterior belly is placed immediately beneath the deep cervical fascia, and rests on the mylo-liyoid muscle ; its inner border is con- nected by a dense aponeurosis with its fellow of the opposite side. Varieties.—The digastric muscle is subject to many variations. The posterior belly has been seen receiving' an accessory slip from the styloid process (Wood), or arising entirely from that part, or connected by a slip with the middle or inferior constrictor of the pharynx (Perrin, Curnow). The anterior belly has been joined by a slip arising from the lower jaw in front of the angle (Henle). In rare cases the muscle is monogastric, the anterior attachment in that case taking place about the middle of the body of the lower jaw (McWhinnie). The anterior belly is frequently divided into two or more parts, one or even two of which may cross the middle line and decussate with similar slips from the muscle of the opposite side ; or a slip sometimes passes to the median raphe of the mylo-hyoid, or be- comes incorporated with its fellow of the opposite side. Its deep surface is some- times united by muscular fibres with the subjacent mylo-hyoid. The tendon of the digastric has been seen in front of, or more rarely behind the stylo-hyoid, instead of passing through it. The mento-hyoid (Macalister) is an occasional mesial slip found passing from the body of the hyoid bone to the chin. It sometimes consists of two parallel bands, and Macalister suggests that it may be a differentiated portion of the platysma. The stylo-hyoid is a slender muscle placed along the upper border of the posterior belly of the digastric. It arises by a narrow tendon from the back of the styloid process of the temporal bone near the root, and inclines downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the hyoid bone at the union of the great cornu with the body. Its fibres are usually divided into two fasciculi near its insertion, for the transmission of the tendon of the digastric muscle. Relations.—The upper part of the stylo-hyoid is covered by the parotid gland ; the lower part is superficial. The muscle crosses the external carotid artery. The lower part of the stylo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, and the base of the lower jaw bound a triangular space which contains the submaxillary gland, and is known as the submaxillary triangle. Varieties.—The stylo-hyoid is not unfrequently wanting, while, on the other hand, doubling of the muscle has also been recorded. It is occasionally placed on the inner side of the external carotid artery. The insertion may take place partly or wholly into the tendon of the digastric ; or fibres are continued into the omo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, or mylo-hyoid muscles. An additional muscular slip is occasionally seen (stylo-Uyoideus alter—Alb.), passing from the styloid process to the small cornu of the hyoid bone, and accompanying or replacing the stylo- hyoid ligament. The mylo-liyoid muscle arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw, extending from the last molar tooth to the symphysis. The nearly parallel fibres pass inwards, backwards and downwards; the hinder ones are inserted, shortly tendinous, into the body of the hyoid bone, while the larger number, becoming gradually shorter as they are placed farther forwards, meet at an angle with those of the opposite muscle and end in a median tendinous raphe, extending from the symphysis of the jaw to the hyoid bone. Thus the two muscles together form a floor below the anterior part of the mouth (diajihragma oris, Meyer). Relations.—The lower surface of the mylo-hyoid is in contact with the anterior belly of the digastric, the submaxillary gland, the facial artery and its submental branch, and the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. The muscle covers the genio-294 Fig. 201.—A, THE LOWER JAW AND HYOID hyoid ridge ; 1, 1', the mylo-hyoid muscles ; Fig. 201. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. hyoid, genio-glossus, and parts of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the sublingual gland and the duct of the submaxillary gland, and the lingual branch of the fifth and the twelfth nerves. The posterior border alone is free, and around it the deep part of the submaxillary gland turns. BONE, PROM BELOW, WITH THE MYLO-HYOID MUSCLES ATTACHED. B, THE SAME FROM ABOVE AND BEHIND, WITH THE MYLO-HYOID AND GENIO-HYOID MUSCLES ATTACHED. (A. T.) ^ a, symphysis ; b, angle of the lower jaw ; c. body of the hyoid bone ; d, in B, the inferior dental foramen and upper end of the mylo- 2, 2', the genio-hyoid muscles from above ; 3, the cut ends of the attachments of the genio-glossi muscles to the superior mental spines. Varieties.—This muscle may be insepar- ably united with, and even upon one side in great part replaced by, the anterior belly of the digastric. It frequently receives an accessory slip from one of the other hyoid muscles, as the sterno-hyoid, omo-liyoid. or stylo-hyoid. A deficiency at the fore part of the muscle is of' common occur- rence, the origin not reaching farther forwards than the canine tooth. The genio-hyoid is a narrow muscle arising from the inferior of the two mental spines behind the symphysis of the jaw, and inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—It is in contact above with the lower border of the genio-glossus muscle, below with the mylo-hyoid. and with its fellow in the middle line. Nerves.—The elevator muscles of the hyoid bone receive their motor nerves from various sources, viz., the anterior belly of the digastric and the mylo-hyoid from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, the poste- rior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid from the facial nerve near the place of its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, and the genio-hyoid from the hypoglossal. Actions of the Muscles of the Front of the Neck.—The two sterno-mastoid muscles acting together bend forwards the head and neck towards the sternum. If one muscle act alone, the head, while it is slightly flexed, is inclined laterally towards the side on which the muscle contracts and rotated to the opposite side. This is the attitude in wry neck 'which is due to the spasmodic or organic con- traction of one sterno-mastoid. Taking their fixed point at the head, they can elevate the upper part of the thorax in forced inspiration. While the sterno-hyoid and omo-liyoid muscles act simply as depressors of the hyoid bone, the sterno-thyroid muscle, being a direct depressor of the thyroid cartilage, can also draw down the hyoid bone when it acts in conjunction with the thyro-hyoid, the latter muscle elevating the larynx when the hyoid bone is fixed. When, in the act of swallowing, the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage have passed suddenly upwards, then- original position is restored by the action of the infra- hyoid muscles. In the utterance of low notes the larynx and hyoid bone descend below the natural level, in the direction of the sternal muscles; while in the utterance of high notes there is little elevation of the hyoid bone, but the larynx is raised by the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles. During deglutition the thyro- hyoid muscles, by drawing the thyroid cartilage up under the hyoid bone, are the principal agents in producing the descent of the epiglottis on the superiorFig. 202. Fig. 202.—Muscles of the constrictor; 11, inferior con- MUSCLES OF TIIE TONGUE. 295 aperture of the larynx. The infrahyoid muscles also act with the stemo-mastoid in forced inspiration. The digastric, mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles are either elevators of the hyoid bone, or depressors of the lower jaw. according' as one or other of these bones is fixed by the antagonistic muscles. The stylo-hyoid acts only on the hyoid bone. The mylo-hyoid and genio-hyoid acting alone draw the hyoid bone forwards as well as upwards, while the stylo-hyoid (aided by the middle con- strictor of the pharynx) moves it backwards and upwards. The attachment of the digastric to the hyoid bone, however, is not close enough to allow of the independent action of the anterior and posterior bellies, and this muscle there- fore, when the jaw is fixed, elevates directly the hyoid bone, as do also the other muscles of this group acting in combination. The mylo-hyoid farther raises the floor of the mouth and presses the tongue against the hard palate, thus forcing backwards the food in the first stage of deglutition. MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ attached posteriorly to the hyoid hone, and inferiorly to the lower jaw. It is composed partly of fibres peculiar to itself—the intrinsic muscles, which will be noticed with the special anatomy of the tongue in Yol. 11. ; and partly of muscles arising from neighbouring parts—the extrinsic muscles about to be described. The genio-glossus or genio-hyo-glossus muscle is fan-shaped, and is placed vertically in contact with its fellow in the mesial plane. It arises by a short tendon from the superior mental spine behind the a, external pterygoid plate ; 6, styloid process; c, section of the symphysis of the lower jaw; d, body of the hyoid bone ; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage; between d and e, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane and ligament ; g, isth- mus of the thyroid body ; J, stylo-glossus muscle ; 2, stylo- hyoid ; 3, stylo-pharyngeus ; 4, cut edge of the mylo-hyoid ; 5, genio-hyoid ; 6, genio-glossus ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, lingualis in- ferior ; 9, part of the superior constrictor of the pharynx; 10, back part of the middle strictor ; 12, upper part of the oesophagus; 13, crico-thyroid muscle. symphysis of the jaw : from this its fibres di- verge, to be inserted, the inferior, for the most part, into the body of the hyoid bone, and a few into the side of the pharynx; the superior into the tip of the tongue; and the intermediate fibres into the whole length of the tongue spreading outwards in its substance. TONGUE, PHARYNX, &C., OF THE LEFT SIDE. (A. T.) £296 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Relations.—Its external surface is in contact with the inferior lingualis, hyo- glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the sublingual gland and the ranine vessels, and its lower border with the genio-hyoid muscle. The terminal portion of the hypoglossal nerve enters its posterior part. Varieties. — Occasional slips of this muscle have been noticed passing to the epiglottis, or to the stylo-hyoid ligament, or more frequently to the small cornu of the hyoid bone. It has also been found united with the genio-hyoid muscle. The liyo-g'lossus is a flat quadrate muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu and from the lateral part of the body of the hyoid bone ; it passes upwards to the posterior half of the tongue close to its lateral border, whence the fibres spread forwards and inwards over the dorsum, joining those of the stylo-glossus muscle. Delations.—The hyo-glossus is concealed by the digastric, stylo-hyoid and mylo- hyoid muscles, except at its posterior inferior angle : the deep part of the submaxillary gland rests on its surface, and it is crossed from below upwards by the hypoglossal nerve, the Whartonian duct, and the lingual nerve. It covers the hinder part of the genio-glossus and the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx, together with the lingual artery and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Varieties.—The origin of the muscle is sometimes pierced by the lingual artery. The triticeo-glossus (Bochdalek) is a small muscle which arises from the cartilago- triticea in the thyro-hyoid ligament, and passes upwards and forwards, lying on the inner side of the lingual artery, to enter the tongue with the posterior part of the hyo-glossus. The chondro-glossus is a small flattened muscular slip, sometimes described as a part of the preceding muscle, from which it is separated, however, by the pharyngeal fibres of the genio-glossus. It arises from the inner side of the base of the small cornu and from part of the body of the hyoid bone, and its fibres are directed upwards and forwards, spreading- somewhat, to end on the dorsum of the tongue by side of the middle line. It is sometimes wanting. The stylo-glossus, the shortest of the three muscles which spring from the styloid process, arises from the front of that process near its point, and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, to which in some cases the greater number of its fibres are attached : passing forwards and slightly downwards and inwards, it is inserted along the side and under part of the tongue as far as the tip, its fibres decussating, and becoming blended with those of the hyo-glossus and palato-glossus muscles. Delations.—This muscle lies deeply beneath the parotid gland and angle of the jaw, and is crossed by the lingual nerve. Varieties.—The mylo-glosms (Wood) is a small accessory slip, which usually comes from the angle of the lower jaw, but has also been seen coming from the stylo-maxillary ligament. Occasionally the whole muscle arises from one of these points. A very rare origin has been noted by Gruber from the external auditory meatus. Albinus and Bohmer have noted entire absence of the muscle, and various anatomists have seen it double. Nerves.—The muscles of this group are all supplied with branches from the hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve. Actions.-—The genio-glossus muscle has a complicated action, the hinder past protruding, and the fore part retracting the tongue, while the middle part, or nearly the whole muscle, acts as a depressor. The stylo-glossus draws the tongue backwards, and elevates its base. It thus comes into play in deglutition. The muscle of one side acting alone gives a lateral direction to the fore part of the tongue. The hyo-glossus and chondro-glossus retract and depress the tongue. The genio-glossus and stylo-glossus acting together tend to make the dorsum of the tongue concave, while the hyo-glossus produces a convexity.MUSCLES OF THE PHAEYXX. 297 Fig. 203. pharynx ; 4, middle constrictor ; MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. The pharynx, the dilated upper part of the alimentary tube extending from the base of the skull to the oesophagus, presents at the sides and back a continuous wall, in great part formed and supported by distinct muscles resting posteriorly against the vertebral column, while in front it is open towards the nasal cavity, the mouth, and the larynx. The muscles entering into the construction of the wall of the pharynx are disposed in two layers, viz., an outer layer in which the fibres have a generally transverse direction, and an inner one composed of longitudinal fibres. The outer layer includes three muscles named constrictors, all of which spring in front from bones or cartilages, and terminate behind, where they are much expanded and overlap one another from below up- wards, by joining their fellows in the middle line, forming in the upper part a mesial tendinous raph6. The inner layer comprises the elevator muscles of the pharynx, two in number, viz., the stylo-pharyngeus and the palato-pharyngeus, the latter of which will be described together with the muscles of the soft palate. The inferior constrictor muscle, the broadest and thickest of the three, arises by a series of slips from the side of the cricoid cartilage at Fig. 203.—Deep muscles of the cheek, pharynx, &c. (modified from Cloquet). (A. T.) l The pharynx has been distended by stuffing, a, external pterygoid plate ; i, styloid process with short portions of the three styloid mus- cles attached ; c, body of the lower jaw, which has been divided at the phlce where the pterygo-maxil- lary ligament + is attached; d, body of the hyoid bone ; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage ; </, trachea ; 1, outer part of the or- bicularis oris muscle ; 2, buccina- tor ; 3, superior constrictor of the 5, inferior constrictor; 6, (eso- phagus ; 7, points by three lines to the lower parts of the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles respectively; 8, mylo- hyoid ; 9, hyo-glossus, of which a small part is removed posteriorly to show the attachment of the middle constrictor; 10, thyro-hyoid. its lower and posterior part, and from the inferior cornu, the oblique line and upper border of the thyroid carti- lage ; some fibres are also usually continued into it from the sterno-thyroid and crico-thyroid muscles. It curves backwards and inwards, and unites with its fellow in the middle line at the back of the pharynx. The direction of the inferior fibres is horizontal; the rest ascend with increasing degrees of obliquity, and the highest fibresFig. 204.—View of Fig. 204. MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 298 phagus ; 5, internal terminate on the raphe about an inch below the basilar process. From its lower border a few fibres turn downwards into the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. Hflat io ns.—This muscle is in contact posteriorly with the cervical vertebras and the prevertebral muscles ; laterally with the thyroid body, the carotid arteries and the stemo-thyroid muscle. It covers the middle constrictor, the stylo-pharyn- geus, the palato-pharyngeus and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The superior laryngeal nerve and vessels pass inwards to the larynx above its upper border, and the inferior ascend beneath its lower border. The middle constrictor muscle arises from the large and small cornua of the hyoid bone, and from the stylo-hyoid ligament: its fibres, diverging greatly, pass back to the middle line of the pharynx behind, the lowest fibres inclining downwards beneath the inferior constrictor, the highest ascending and overlapping the superior constrictor, and the intermediate fibres running transversely. ^Relations.—This muscle is separated from the superior constrictor by the stylo- pharyngeus muscle, while between its origin and that of the inferior constrictor the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane. THE MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX, &C., from behind (after Dourgery). J The hack part of the skull, the ver- tebral column and back parts of the ribs are removed, a, cut surface of the basilar process; b, clavicle ; c, first rib ; d, ramus of the lower jaw; e, posterior extremity of the great cornu of the hyoid bone; /, pos- terior surface of the manubrium; 1, supe- rior constrictor muscle of the pharynx; above it the fibrous mem- brane which closes the pharynx; 2, middle constrictor; 2', a dot- ted line, indicating the direction of the lower part of the mus- cle ; 3, the inferior constrictor; 4, oeso- pterygoid; 6, stylo- glossus ; 7, posterior belly of the digastric; 8, a portion of the stylo-hyoid surround- ing the tendon of the digastric ; 9, sterno-mastoid ; 10, anterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; 11, sterno-thyroid muscle (represented somewhat too broad). Varieties.—The middle constrictor has been seen to receive fibres from the body of the hyoid bone, from the tongue, and from the hinder part of the mylo-MUSCLES OF THE PHARYNX. 290 liyoid ridge of the lower jaw. A slip from the lateral thyro-hyoid ligament (syndesmo-pharyngeus, Douglas) is of frequent occurrence. The superior constrictor arises by fibres attached in series from below upwards, to the side of the tongue, to the mucous membrane of the mouth, to the extremity of the mylohyoid ridge of the jaw, to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and to the hamular process and lower third or less of the posterior border of the internal pterygoid plate. The fibres curve backwards, and are mostly blended with those of the corre- sponding muscle along the middle line, a few ending posteriorly in the aponeurosis which fixes the pharynx to the base of the skull. The upper margin curves round the levator palati and the Eustachian tube; and the space intervening between this concave margin of the constrictor and the base of the skull is closed by fibrous membrane. Relations.—In contact with the outer surface of this muscle are the internal carotid artery, the vagus and sympathetic nerves, the middle constrictor, which overlaps a considerable portion, and the stylo-pharyngeus, which descends to the pharynx between the two constrictors. It conceals the palato-pharyngeus and the tonsil, and is lined by mucous membrane. It is united to the buccinator muscle anteriorly by the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The constrictor muscles are invested on their outer surface by a layer of dense connective tissue, which is but loosely attached to the adjacent prevertebral fascia. This layer is stronger above thau below, and is prolonged forwards over the lateral part of the superior constrictor to the pterygo-maxillary ligament, where it becomes continuous with the membrane covering the buccinator muscle, whence the whole structure is named the lucco-pharyngeal fascia. The stylo-pharyngeus, larger and longer than the other styloid muscles, arises from the inner surface of the styloid process near the root, and proceeding downwards and inwards to the side of the pharynx, passes under cover of the middle constrictor muscle, where it gradually expands, and being joined by the palato-pharyngeus, ends on the superior and posterior borders of the thyroid cartilage, and in the lateral wall of the pharynx. Relations.—The external surface of this muscle is, in the upper part of its extent, in contact with the styloid process, and the external carotid artery; in the lower, with the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx. Internally it rests on the internal carotid artery and superior constrictor ; and lower down on the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve crosses over the muscle in turning forwards to the tongue. Varieties.—Splitting or doubling of the stylo-pharyngeus is often met with ; a division into three parts has also been observed. Supernumerary elevator muscles of the pharynx are not unfrequently present, arising from a neighbouring part of the base of the skull, and inserted variably into one or other of the constrictors, or passing between those muscles to the fibrous layer of the pharynx. Their most frequent origin is from the under surface of the petrous bone in front of the carotid canal or from the vaginal process of the temporal bone (pctro-pharyngeWs), but they also occur arising from the spine of the sphenoid (splieno-pharyngeus), from the hamular process (pterygo- pharyngeus externals'), or farther back, from the basilar process (ocoipito-pharyn- gens), or very rarely from the mastoid process (pharyvgo-mastoidcus). Belonging to the same group is the azygos pharyngis, a small median slip sometimes present, arising from the pharyngeal tubercle of the occipital bone, and descending to the raphe or the posterior wall of the pharynx. Nerves.—The constrictor muscles are supplied by the pharyngeal plexus, the300 MUSCLES OF TI1E HEAD AND NECK. inferior also by the external laryngeal nerve. The stylo-pharyngeus receives a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a moveable curtain, con- tinued backwards from the hard palate. It presents posteriorly a free pendulous margin, prolonged in the middle into a conical piocess, the uvula, and at each side into a prominent curved fold, t\\e posterior pillar_ of the fauces, which runs downwards and backwards on the side wall of the pharynx, while from the base of the uvula and the under surface of the soft palate another fold, the anterior pillar of the fauces, descends to the tongue ; between the two on each side is lodged the tonsil. Ihe constricted passage between the anterior pillars, leading from the mouth to the pharynx, is called the isthmus of the fauces. The soft palate is acted on by five pairs of elongated muscles, two superior, one intermediate, and two inferior. The palatoglossus muscle, or constrictor istlimi faucium, occupies the anterior pillar of the fauces. Superiorly it is placed below all the other muscles of the palate, and its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite side ; interiorly it enters the side of the tongue, where it becomes continuous with the transverse fibres of that organ (Henle). Behind and continuous with the fibres of the palato-glossus are some thin bundles of muscular fibres which ascend from the side of the tongue and are lost over the outer surface of the tonsil. They were named amygdalo-glosms by Broca. MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. Fig. 205.—Diagrammatic view of the MUSCLES OF THE SOFT 1‘ALATE, &C., FROM BEHIND. (A. T.) ^ The posterior wall of the pharynx has been divided by a vertical incision in the middle line, and the cut edges drawn to tiie side so as to expose the nasal, buccal, and laryngeal openings ; a, is above the cut surface of the basilar process, and below that are the posterior nares ; b, cartilage of the right Eustachian tube ; c, back of the ramus of the lower jaw ; d, posterior border of the thyroid cartil- age ; e, upper part of the cricoid cartil- age ; /, base of the tongue above the epiglottis ; g, lower end of the pharynx leading into the gullet; 1, superior con- strictor of the pharynx seen from within; 2, palato-pharyngeus ; 2', the lower part of the same muscle, on the right side ; 3, placed on the internal pterygoid mus- cle, points to the levator palati ; 4, the right circumflexus palati muscle winding round the hamular process; 5, the azygos uvulie; above e, the arytenoid, and below it on each side the posterior crico- arytenoid muscle.MUSCLES OF THE SOFT PALATE. 801 The palato-pharyngeus arises in the soft palate in two layers which embrace the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. The superficial or upper layer consists of scattered fibres which join those of the opposite muscle in the middle line ; the deep or lower layer is much stronger, and partly meets its fellow, partly takes origin from the hinder margin of the hard palate and the aponeurosis of the velum. At the outer border of the soft palate the muscle also receives one or two slender bundles which descend from the lower and fore part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube (salpingo-pharyngens, Santorini). It then passes downwards and backwards in the posterior pillar of the fauces, becomes considerably expanded, and is inserted, its fibres mingling with those of the stylo-pharyngeus, into the upper and hinder borders of the thyroid cartilage, and into the fibrous layer of the lower part of the pharynx, reaching as far as, or even crossing, the middle line behind. The azygos uvulas muscle (Morgagni), so called from having been supposed to be a single muscle, consists of two slips, which arise, one on each side of the middle line, from the tendinous structure of the soft palate, sometimes also from the posterior nasal spine, and descend into the uvula. The two slips are separated by a slight interval above, and unite as they descend. The levator palati muscle arises by a narrow tendon from the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in front of the orifice of the carotid canal, and from the lower margin of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. The fibres form a rounded muscle which passes downwards and forwards into the pharynx, crossing the upper border of the superior constrictor. Becoming flattened as it approaches the middle line, its fore part is inserted into the aponeurosis of the palate, while the larger posterior portion meets the muscle of the other side under cover of the azygos uvulae. The circumflexus or tensor palati arises from the navicular fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spine of the sphenoid, and from the outer side of the Eustachian tube. Its flattened belly descends perpendicularly, on the mesial side of the internal pterygoid muscle, and ends in a tendon which, turning round the hamular process, where a synovial bursa smooths its passage, extends horizontally inwards, and is inserted into a transverse ridge on the under surface of the palate bone, and into the aponeurosis of the soft palate. Nerves.—The muscles of this group receive their nerves from various sources some of which are not yet sufficiently determined. The tensor palati receives a branch from the otic ganglion of the fifth nerve, the levator palati and azygos uvulas from the facial through the petrosal branch of the Vidian, and the palato- glossus and palato-pharyngeus are probably supplied through the pharyngeal plexus. Actions of the Muscles of the Pharynx and Soft Palate.—In considering the mode of action of the constrictor muscles it is to be observed that their so- called insertion takes place into a part which, owing to its connections, cannot be moved forwards, and that the constriction of the pharynx takes place there- fore mainly by movement backwards of its anterior wall, the cavity being thus converted into a transverse slit. The hyoid bone and larynx are at the same time carried somewhat upwards as well as backwards, in consequence of the oblique direction of the larger number of the fibres of the middle and lower constrictors. The upper part of the superior constrictor differs from the rest in the circumstance that, being placed above the level of the palate, it cannot act directly on the food, and also that its fibres are attached at both ends to parts which are immoveable. The effect of its contraction is consequently to flatten the side-walls of this partMUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. ;02 of the pharynx, and thus to assist in approximating the posterior pillars of the fauces. The stylo-pharyngeus is the principal elevator of the pharynx and larynx. The palato-glossi, besides depressing the soft palate and elevating the tongue, also bring together the anterior pillars of the fauces, and thus shut off the mouth-cavity from the pharynx. The palato-pharyngci similarly depress the soft palate and raise the pharynx, hut their principal action is to bring together the posterior pillars of the fauces, thus separating the nasal and buccal portions of the pharynx. The azygos uvula; raises and shortens the uvula. The action of the levator palati is expressed by its name, while the tensor not only tightens and supports the soft palate against pressure from below, and against the traction of the depressor muscles, but is also, in the opinion of most anatomists, the agent by which the Eustachian tube is opened during- deglutition. It is proper, how- ever, to remark that a different view is taken by Cleland, who holds—and in this he, to some extent, agrees with Luschka—that the tube is closed during deglutition by the thickening which accompanies the contraction of the levator palati, pressing up the membranous floor of the canal against the upper and outer wall, so as completely to obliterate the opening (Journ. Anat., iii. 97). The muscles of the pharynx and soft palate are so arranged as to accomplish, in conjunction with those of the tongue and hyoid bone, the action of deglutition— that is to say, the propulsion of food into the oesophagus without any portion being permitted to pass into the nasal cavity or larynx. The first stage of this operation is effected by the mylo-hyoid, stylo-glossus and palato-glossus muscles, which press the tongue against the palate, and so force the food backwards through the isthmus of the fauces, the hyoid bone being at the same time raised by its proper elevators. The larynx is then carried upwards under the hyoid bone by the thyro-hyoid and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the root of the tongue being drawn backwards by the stylo-glossi, the epiglottis is pressed downwards over the superior aperture of the larynx, which is thus protected. Simultaneously the soft palate is raised and fixed by its superior muscles, and the palato-pharyngei bring together the posterior pillars of the fauces, which nearly touch one another (the uvula lying in the small interval between them) and prevent the passage of the food towards the upper part of the pharynx or the posterior nares, while they form an inclined surface for its guidance into the lower part of the pharynx. The food being thus thrown into the grasp of the constrictors of the pharynx, those muscles contract rapidly from above downwards and force it into the tube of the gullet below. DEEP LATERAL AND PREVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OP THE NECK. The soaleni muscles form a group of strong muscular columns, -which are usually three in number, but sometimes only two. All of them are subdivided superiorly into musculo-tendinous slips, corresponding in number with their vertebral attachments. The scalenus anticus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebra?, and interiorly by a thick flattened tendon to the scalene tubercle on the upper surface of the first rib. Relations.— This muscle is deeply placed under cover of the stemo-mastoid : on its anterior surface lie the subclavian vein, omo-hyoid muscle and phrenic nerve ; behind are the scalenus medius, the nerves of the brachial plexus, the subclavian artery and the pleura. On its inner side the rectus anticus major arises from the same transverse processes, and the ascending cervical artery lies in the groove between the two muscles, while the internal jugular vein is in front. The scalenus medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae (sometimes not to303 DEEP LATERAL CERVICAL MUSCLES. the atlas), and inferiorly to a rough impression on the first rib, extending from the tubercle to the groove for the subclavian artery. Fig. 206.—The deep lateral AND PP.EVERTEBRAL MUSCLES OP THE NECK FROM BEFORE. (A. T.) i a, cut surface of the basilar process; b; transverse process of the atlas ; c, transverse pro- cess of the seventh cervical vertebra; cl, body of the first, d', of the fourth dorsal ver- tebra ; e, first, and c', second rib; 1, rectus capitis anticus major muscle; 2, rectus anti- cus minor ; 3, middle part, 3', upper part, and 3", lower part of the longus colli ; 4, rectus lateralis ; 4', first pair, and 4". second pair of intertransver- sales; 5, scalenus anticus of the right side; 5', its attach- ment to the first rib on the left side; 6, scalenus medius ; 6', lower portion of the correspond- ing muscle of the left side ; 7, scalenus posticus, its superior attachments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper part of the levator scapulae drawn out from its vertebral attachments ; 9, splenius colli, shown in the same manner. Fig. 206. Relations.— In front of this muscle, between it and the anterior scalenus, are the cervical nerves and the subclavian artery : behind it are the posterior scalenus and levator anguli scapulae muscles. The scalenus posticus, smaller than the other scaleni muscles, is attached above by two or three small tendons to the transverse pro- cesses of as many of the lower cervical vertebrae, and inferiorly by an aponeurotic tendon to the second rib external to the attachment of the I levator cos tie. Varieties.—The scaleni muscles are subject to a considerable amount of varia- tion, both in the number of their points of attachment, and in the arrangement of their fibres. A slip from the scalenus anticus sometimes passes behind the subclavian artery. The scalenus posticus is not unfrequently absent. The prevertebral muscles of the cervical region are three in number, two of which pass to the head from the upper vertebra, viz., the rectus capitis anticus major and minor, and the third is confined to ver- tebral attachments, the longus colli. Along with these the rectus capitis lateralis muscle may also be described in this place. The rectus capitis anticus major muscle arises by tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebra : it is inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone, a little in front of the foramen magnum.MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 304 The muscles of opposite sides converge as they ascend, and their mesial fibres are longest. Relations.—Its anterior surface supports the pharynx, the sympathetic and vagus nerves, and the great cervical vessels. The posterior surface rests upon the vertebrae, part of the longus colli and the rectus anticus minor. The rectus capitis anticus minor, partly covered by the major, arises from the front of the root of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar process, between the margin of the foramen magnum and the preceding muscle, half an inch from its fellow. The rectus capitis lateralis is a short thick muscle arising from the upper and fore part of the enlarged extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and inserted into the rough under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. This and the foregoing muscle complete the series of intertransversales muscles, which are described along with the deep posterior muscles of the neck. The longus colli muscle rests on the front of the vertebral column from the atlas to the third dorsal vertebra ; it consists of three sets of fibres, of which one is vertical and two are oblique, a. The vertical part ai’ises by a series of flattened muscular and tendinous processes from the bodies of the lower two cervical and upper two or three dorsal vertebrae, and along its outer border it receives slips also from the transverse pro- cesses of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae ; it is inserted into the bodies of the second, third and fourth cervical vertebra, b. The lower oblique part, the smallest of the three, takes origin in common with the vertical part from the bodies of the upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted by narrow tendinous slips into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, c. The upper oblique part arises by separate tendinous slips from the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth and fifth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the lateral part of the tubercle on the anterior arch of the atlas, becoming connected also with the upper end of the vertical part. Relations.—By its anterior surface the longus colli muscle is in contact with the pharynx and oesophagus, the great vessels of the neck contained in their sheath, the sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the inferior thyroid artery. Behind, it rests upon the vertebrae. Varieties.—The number of attachments, and the degree of separation of the several parts are subject to variation. A slip of the lower oblique part is some- times inserted into the head of the first rib, or a fasciculus may be continued into the rectus capitis anticus major. Nerves.—The rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis are supplied by branches from the first cervical nerve ; the scaleni and long prevertebral muscles receive branches from the adjacent cervical nerves. Actions.—The scalene muscles, acting from their vertebral attachments, are elevators of the upper ribs, and thus come into play in the movement of inspira- tion, contracting forcibly in laboured breathing, while in tranquil respiration a moderate degree of action suffices to fix the first rib and support the lung where it projects through the upper aperture of the thorax. Taking their fixed point at the ribs they act as lateral flexors of the neck, and the muscles of the two sides acting together (especially the anterior scaleni) can bend the neck for- wards. The recti antici are flexors of the head on the spine, and the rectus lateralis can only bend the head to the side. The longus colli is chiefly a flexor of the neck, but its upper and lower oblique parts may produce a certain amount of rotation.MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 305 IV.—MUSCLES A~N"D FASCIiE OF THE TRUNK. The muscles passing between the trunk and the upper limb having been already described, those which belong exclusively to the trunk itself will now be treated of under the three heads of, 1. Dorsal muscles ; 2. Thoracic muscles, including the diaphragm; and 3. Abdominal and Perineal muscles. DORSAL MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. The muscles to be described under the above head, taken as a whole, occupy the hollow between the line of vertebral spines and the prominences formed by the mastoid process, the cervical transverse processes, the most projecting parts of the ribs, and the crest of the ilium, and they extend from the superior curved line of the occipital bone to the lower part of the sacrum. Some of them are small and are limited to certain parts of the extensive region now referred to; others extend, either con- tinuously or by the serial repetition of similar short fasciculi, throughout the greater part of it. They may be arranged for purposes of description, according to the order in which they occur, in the following groups, viz., a, the posterior serrati muscles ; h, the splenius ; c, the erector spinre ; d, the complex* and transverso-spinales ; e, the interspinales and intertransversales; /, the short cranio-vertebral muscles. Of these muscles the serrati act solely on the ribs and are closely related to the thoracic muscles, although from them position they are most conveniently described in this place. The remainder act on the spinal column and head, and considered with regard to the direction of their fibres fall into three main divisions. In the first division (splenius) the muscular fibres are directed obliquely upwards and outwards, or from spinous to transverse processes ; in the second (transverso-spinales and complex*) the fibres pass obliquely upwards and inwards or from transverse to spinous pro- cesses ; in the third the fibres run longitudinally between corresponding parts of the vertebrae, being either of considerable length and passing over several segments (erector spin*), or short and attached to adjacent verte- brae (interspinales and intertransversales). The short cranio-vertebral muscles may be regarded as presenting examples of each of these divisions. Serrati muscles.—The serratus posticus superior is a thin flat muscle which is covered, excepting at its upper border, by the rhomboid and levator anguli scapulae muscles. It arises from the lower part of the ligamentum nuchae, from the spines of the last cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the supraspinous ligament, by a thin aponeurotic tendon forming nearly half of the length of the muscle. The fibres are directed obliquely downwards and outwards, and form four fleshy digitations which are inserted by tendinous extremities into the upper borders and outer surfaces of the second, third, fourth and fifth ribs, a little beyond their angles. Varieties.— The slips are sometimes only three in number ; or less frequently there are five or even six (Henle). In very rare cases absence of the muscle has been observed (Macalister, Proc. Roy. Irish Acad., 1S66). The serratus posticus inferior (fig. 157, p. 195), broader and stronger than the superior, arises from the spines of the lower two dorsal VOL. I. XDORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 30G (A. T.). i cervicis; 5", f>", on the Fig. 207. and upper two or three lumbar vertebrae, by a thin aponeurotic membrane which forms part of the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and is closely united to the overlying tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Passing- outwards, upwards and forwards, it is inserted by four fleshy digitations into the lower borders of the last four ribs. The fleshy digitations are Fig. 207.—Dorsal mus- cles op THE UPPER PART OF THE TRURK. I, first, VI, sixth dor- sal vertebra; 1, upper part of the complexus muscle ; 2, splenius capitis ; 3, 3', splenius colli ; 4, serratus posticus superior; 5, up- per part of the longis- sinius dorsi; 5', the same continued up on the left side into the transversalis right side, the transver- salis cervicis spread out from its attachments ; 6, upper insertions of the ilio - costalis and acces- sorius ; 6', the same con- tinued up on the left side into the cervicalis ascen- dens; 6", lower end of the latter muscle of the right side showing its at- tachments ; 7, small part of the spinalis dorsi; 8, 8, right levator scapulae; 8', on the left side, its upper part divided; 9, 9, 9, levatores costarum on the right side. shorter than the aponeurotic part of the muscle, and they overlap one another from above downwards. The last slip varies in size with the length of the twelfth rib, and is often entirely concealed by the one above it. Varieties.—Absence of the first or last digitation is frequently seen ; of the whole muscle very rarely (Macalister). Nerves.—The serrati muscles are supplied by the intercostal nerves, each slip receiving a small branch which perforates the external intercostal muscle upon which it lies. Actions.—The serratus posticus superior elevates the upper ribs, and is there- fore a muscle of inspiration. The serratus inferior draws the lower ribs down- wards and, to a greater extent, backwards (see p. 149), and is also a muscle of inspiration, enlarging the lower part of the chest, and at the same time resisting the tendency of the diaphragm to draw the lower ribs upwards and forwards. Dorsal and lumbar fascial—The vertebral aponeurosis is situated on the same plane as the serratus posticus inferior, and consists of a thin lamella which separates the muscles belonging to the shoulder and arm from those tvhich support the spine and head. Its fibres are for the most part transverse, a few only being longitudinal. Above, it307 DORSAL AND LUMBAR FASCIAE. SPLENIUS. passes beneath the superior serratus ; below, it is blended with the tendons of the latissimus and inferior serratus muscles, and in being- stretched from the spinous processes outwards to the angles of the ribs, it helps to enclose the angular space in which are lodged the long- extensor muscles. Under the name of lumbar fascia or aponeurosis it has been customary to describe three strong membranous layers ensheathing the erector spin* and quadratus lumborum muscles. The deeper parts of this structure, to which by some the name of lumbar fascia is restricted, will be described along with the abdominal muscles, with which they are chiefly connected. The superficial or posterior layer is that through which the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior muscles are attached to the spines of the vertebrae. This layer, whi ch is of considerable strength, extends outwards beyond the origin of the latissimus and serratus inferior, and becoming closely united with the middle layer, binds down firmly the erector spin* muscle : it is by some described as the lower part of the vertebral aponeurosis, with which it is continuous, by others it has been named the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi. The splenius muscle is so named from its having the form of a strap, which binds down the parts lying under it. It is attached superiorly in part to the cervical vertebrae, in part to the skull, and is described ac- cordingly under two names. a. The splenius colli is attached inferiorly to the spinous processes of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth dorsal vertebrae, and superiorly along with the slips of the levator anguli scapulae to the transverse processes of the first two or three cervical vertebrae. b. The splenius capitis, broader and thicker than the preceding, arises from the spines of the seventh cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae, and from the ligamentum nuchae as high as the third cervical vertebra. It is inserted into the lower part of the mastoid process, and into the outer part of the superior curved line of the occipital bone.- Relations.- The splenius is covered below and internally by the trapezius, the rhomboids and the serratus posticus superior ; and at its insertions by the stemo- mastoid and levator anguli scapulae. It conceals, in part, the coinplexus and tra- chelo-mastoid. Varieties.—The origin of the splenius is frequently moved upwards to the extent of one or two vertebral. The rhomlio-atloidcus (Macalister) is a muscular slip occasionally present, arising from one or two lower cervical or upper dorsal spines, superficial to the serratus posticus superior, and inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. Erector spinae.—This is a large composite muscle, extending throughout the whole length of the back from the pelvis to the head, and divided for purposes of description into seven parts, to which distinct names are applied. Commencing below as a common mass, it is continued upwards in three columns, of which the innermost, spinalis dorsi, is comparatively slender and short, while the other two are much thicker, and are again subdivided each into three portions, viz., in the outer column, ilio-costalis, accessorius, and cervicalis ascendens, and in the middle column, longissimus dorsi, transvvrsalis cervicis, and traciielo-mastoid. The origin of the erector spin* takes place mainly by means of a strong flattened tendon which is attached to the lowest two or three dorsal and all the lumbar and sacral spines, to the posterior fifth of the iliac crest, and to the lower and back part of the sacrum, as well as to the ligaments308 DORSAL MUSCLES OF TIIE TRUNK. Fig..208.—Deep muscles OF THE BACK. (A. T.) i On the left side the several parts of the erector spin® are nearly in their natural position, with the exception of the spinalis dorsi, which is drawn out from the spines of the vertebrae ; on the right side the spinalis dorsi has been entirely removed, the ilio-costalis drawn to the outer side so as to expose its accessory muscle, and the longissimus removed, excepting small portions at its insertions. Superiorly on the left side, the trache- lo-mastoid and complexus are left nearly in their natural positions ; while, on the right side, the trachelo-mastoid has been entirely removed, and the complexus, separated from its occipital attachment, has been spread out so as to stretch its vertebral attachments, a, external occipital protuberance ; b, mastoid process ; c, spi- nous process of the axis ; I, I, spinous process of the first dorsal vertebra and first rib; VI, VI, VI, sixth dorsal spine and transverse process and sixth rib; XII, XII, twelfth dorsal spine and twelfth rib. On the leftside, 1, complexus ; 2, trachelo-mastoid ; 3, ser- ratus posticus superior, detached from the spine and drawn upwards from the ribs; 4, 4, the slips of attachment of the serratus posticus inferior to the lowest four ribs ; 5, 5, 5, costal, and 5', iliac ori- gins of the latissimus dor- si; G +, tendon of origin of the erector spin® ; 6, upper part of the longissi- mus dorsi; 6', transversa- lis cervicis continued up from the longissimus ; 7, ilio-costalis drawn slightly inwards to show the slips of insertion into the lum- bar fascia and the various ribs ; inside the costal in- sertions are seen the ori- gins of the accessorius; 7',309 ERECTOR SPIKE. cervicalis ascendens continued upwards from the accessorius ; 8, spinalis dorsi. On the right side, 6, marks, in the lumbar region, the insertions of the longissimus dorsi into the upper four transverse processes (the insertion into the accessory processes not being shown); in the dorsal region the narrower tendons of insertion into the lower part of the dorsal transverse processes (the six lower only are represented); 6', 6', the costal inser- tions ; 7, ilio-costalis, drawn outwards ; 7', placed between the lowest insertion of the ilio-costalis and the lowest origin of the accessorius ; 7", cervicalis ascendens ; 9, 9, semi- spinalis colli ; 10, 10, semispinalis dorsi ; 11, 11, lower dorsal and lumbar parts of the multifidus spinse, which appears again above the semispinalis colli, above the upper 9 ; 12, levatores costarum, long and short; 13, in the upper part of the figure, points by four lines to the rectus capitis posticus minor and major, and the obliqrrus inferior and superior muscles. uniting that bone to the coccyx. This tendon becomes blended below with the overlying layer of the lumbar fascia ; its deep surface gives origin also to some fibres of the multifidus spinae, and between the iliac and sacral attachments a part of the gluteus maximus arises from its border. The fasciculi of which it is composed pass nearly vertically upwards, the outer ones, above the iliac crest, being very short, while the inner ones ascend by side of the spines to the middle of the dorsal region. The fleshy fibres of the muscle are derived mostly from the oblique upper border and the deep surface of the tendon, but others spring directly from the rough posterior part of the inner surface of the ilium, beneath and outside the attachment of the tendon. The lower part of the muscle forms a large mass which projects backwards beyond the spines, and laterally beyond the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and which becomes divided below the level of the last rib into the middle and outer columns. The inner column only separates itself from the middle column in the upper dorsal region. a. The ilio-costalis or sacro-lumbalis, the first portion of the outer column, is continued from the outer and superficial portion of the common mass ; it ends in a series of tendons which incline slightly out- wards, and are inserted one into each of the lower six or seven ribs at their angles, a slender fasciculus being usually prolonged also into the accessorius. 1. The musculus accessorius ad ilio-costalem (ad sacro-lumbalem) prolongs upwards the preceding muscle. It arises by flat tendons from the upper margins of the lower six ribs, internal to the tendons of the ilio-costalis, and ends superiorly by continuing the series of those tendons to the angles of the upper ribs, and to the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. c. The cervicalis ascendens consists of slips in serial continuation with the foregoing, taking origin from four or five ribs above the accessorius, and inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the fourth, fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae. Its insertions are intimately connected with those of the transversalis cervicis. d. The longissimus dorsi is both larger and longer than the ilio- costalis, its original fibres passing as high as the first dorsal vertebra. Internally it is closely connected on the surface with the spinalis dorsi, the tendinous slips springing from the upper two or three lumbar verte- brae being common to the two muscles. When those slips and the tendons of origin from the lumbar spines are cut through the inner surface of the muscle is brought into view, and it is then usually seen to receive from two to four slender accessory tendons from the lower dorsal transverse processes. The longissimus dorsi presents two series ofDORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 310 insertions. The inner row of insertions is a series of rounded tendons attached to the transverse processes of all the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The outer insertions form a series of thin fleshy processes which are attached in the dorsal region to the lowest nine or ten ribs, between their tubercles and angles, and in the lumbar region to the whole length of the transverse processes, and beyond these to the lumbar fascia connected with them. e. The transversalis cervicis muscle prolongs upwards the column of fibres of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the transverse processes of the highest four or five dorsal vertebrae, and occasionally the last cervical, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse pro- cesses of five cervical vertebrae, from the second to the sixth inclusive. It generally receives a slip of the original fibres of the longissimus dorsi. /. The trachelo-mastoid muscle (transversalis capitis), which may be regarded as the continuation of the longissimus dorsi to the head, arises in close connection with the transversalis cervicis from the upper dorsal transverse processes, and also from the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae, and, forming a thin flat muscle, passes to be inserted into the posterior margin of the mastoid process, under cover of the splenius and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is the only muscle which lies between the splenius and complexus, and the only portion of the erector spinae concealed by the former. It is usually crossed by a tendinous intersection a little below its insertion. (j. The spinalis dorsi is a long narrow muscle placed at the inner side of the longissimus dorsi, and closely connected with it. It receives the slender tendinous fasciculi from the lowest two or three dorsal spines, and other fleshy fibres spring from the tendons which pass from the upper lumbar spines into the longissimus. Its insertion takes place into a variable number, from four to nine, of the upper dorsal spines, the slips being closely adherent to those of the subjacent semispinalis muscle. Varieties.—The spinalis cervicis is an inconstant muscle, arising variably from the ligamentum nuchas and the seventh cervical spine, or from one or two spines above or below this, and inserted mainly into the spine of the axis, occasionally also into those of the third and fourth cervical vertebrae. (See ILenle and Heilen- beck, Muller’s Archiv, 1837). The name sacro-coccygcus posticus, or extensor coccygis, has been given to slender fibres occasionally found extending from the lower end of the sacrum to the coccyx, and representing the extensor of the caudal vertebrae of the lower animals. Complexus and traxsverso-spixales.—The muscles of this group, comprising the complexus, semispinalis, multifidus spinas, and rotatores dorsi, present the feature in common of ascending with an inward inclination, and are thus distinguished from those last described. The most superficial, the complexus, has the longest and most vertical fibres, but is the shortest in its whole extent, being limited to the upper part of the dorsal and the cervical regions ; the muscle beneath it, the semi- spinalis, occupies the greater part of both those regions ; the multifidus spinae, still more deeply placed, extends from the sacrum to the axis ; and the rotatores dorsi, the deepest of all, are confined to the thoracic region. The complexus muscle (semispinalis capitis) arises by tendinous slips from the transverse processes of the upper six or seven dorsal and the last cervical vertebrae, and from the articular processes of the three and sometimes four succeeding cervical vertebrae, together with theSEMI SPINALIS. MULTIFIDUS SPINiE. 311 capsular ligaments uniting them ; it is also frequently joined by one or two slender fasciculi from the lowest cervical or highest dorsal spines. It is inserted into the large internal impression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. It is narrower above than below, and its inner margin in the neck is in contact with the ligamentiun undue. An irregular, commonly imperfect, tendinous intersection crosses the muscle about the level of the spine of the axis ; and lower down, another longer one interrupts the fibres of the inner portion of the muscle, which is more or less separate from the rest, and is hence sometimes described independently under the name of biventer cervicis. Relations.—The complexus muscle is covered by the splenius, except at its lowest origins from the dorsal vertebrae and at the internal portion of its upper extremity ; the trachelo-mastoid and transversalis cervicis rest upon its series of origins ; and the semispinalis colli, the posterior recti, and the obliqui capitis, together with the deep cervical artery, are concealed by it. The semispinalis muscle consists of bundles of fibres extending from transverse processes to spines, and crossing over from four to six vertebra?. It is described in two parts. a. The semispinalis colli is the part under cover of the complexus. It arises from the upper five or six dorsal transverse processes, and is in- serted into the spines of the cervical vertebrae from the second to the fifth, inclusive, being thickest at its insertion into the second vertebra. b. The semispinalis clorsi consists of narrow muscular bundles inter- posed between tendons of considerable length, and forms an elongated thin stratum, especially towards its lower border. It arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae from the sixth to the tenth inclusive, and is inserted into the last two cervical and from four to six upper dorsal spines. The multifidus spinas muscle occupies the vertebral groove by side of the row of spinous processes, reaching from the sacrum to the axis, and passing up under cover of the semispinalis. It is much more largely developed towards the lower than at the upper end of the column and is thinnest m the dorsal region. In the sacral region the fibres arise from the deep surface of the tendinous origin of the erector spime, from the groove on the back of the sacrum as low as the fourth foramen, from the inner part of the posterior extremity of the ilium, and from the posterior sacro-iliac ligament; m the lumbar region they take origin from the mammillary processes ; in the dorsal region from the transverse processes ; and in the neck from the articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebra?. From these several points the mus- cular bundles ascend obliquely, to be inserted into the spines of the vertebrae, from their bases to their extremities. The fibres from each point of origin are fixed to several vertebrae, some being inserted into the side of the spinous process next but one above, and others ascending more and more vertically as high as the fourth from the place of origin, the longer fibres from one origin overlapping those from the origin next above. The rotatores dorsi are eleven small muscles on each side, which may be regarded as the deepest fibres of the multifidus spina? in the dorsal region, and are distinguished by being more nearly horizontal than the rest. Each arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process of one vertebra, and is inserted into the inferior margin of the lamina of the vertebra next above. Similar small slips between adjacent vertebra?,312 Fig. 209.—Deep posterior muscles op DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. Fig. 209. but more longitudinal in direction, are occasionally present in the cervical and lumbar regions. Interspinales and intertransversales.—The interspinales are short vertical fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of contiguous vertebra). In the neck, from the axis downwards, they are roundish bundles attached to the two parts into which the spinous processes are divided. In the dorsal region they are for the most part absent, a few fibres only being present in one or two of the highest and lowest spaces. In the loins they are flattened bands, one on each side of the inter- spinous ligament, and extending the whole length of the spinous processes. Variety.—Longer interspinous bundles are sometimes found in the neck pass- ing- over one or two vertebrae, and forming a transition to the spinalis cervicis muscle already described. The intertransversales are short muscles passing nearly vertically THE UPPER PART OP THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. (A. T.) i a, external occipital protuberance; b, surface between the superior and in- ferior curved lines into which the ccm- plexus is inserted ; c, spinous process of the axis ; d, transverse process of the atlas ; e, transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra; /, lamina of the sixth dorsal vertebra; 1, rectus capitis posticus minor muscle ; 2, rectus posticus major ; 3, obliquus superior; 4, obliquus in- ferior ; 5, rectus capitis lateralis ; 6, 6, trachelo-mastoid, the muscle of the right side turned inwards and its slips of at- tachment to the dorsal and cervical vertebrae separated from each other ; 7, 7, transversalis cervicis, the figures are placed near the extreme ends of the muscle on the right side ; 7', on the left side, longissimus dorsi ; 8, 8, cervicalis ascendens, the muscle of the right side is spread out ; 8', 8', on the left side, ten- dinous insertions of the ilio-costalis and accessorius muscles ; 9, upper part of the semispinalis colli of the left side ; 10, placed on the seventh rib of the right side close to the insertion of its levator costae muscle ; 11, 11, three rotatores dorsi. from vertebra to vertebra between the transverse processes. In the cervical region there are two rounded fleshy bundles beneath each transverse process, the one descending from the anterior, the other from the posterior part of the process. In the dorsal region there are small fleshy bundles in the lowest three or four spaces ; in the middle spaces they are replaced by small tendinous bands which constitute the so-called inter-313 SHORT CRANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. transverse ligaments ; ancl in the upper spaces they are usually altogether wanting. In the lumbar region there are again two sets : one set, the intertransversales laterales, lie between the transverse processes, and are in series with the levatores costarum ; the other set, intertransver- salcs mediates or interaccessorii, pass from the accessory process of one vertebra to the mammillary process of the next, and are in series with the intertransversales of the dorsal region. Short posterior cranio-vertebral muscles.—The rectus capitis posticus major muscle arises by a narrow tendon from the spinous process of the axis, and expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, is inserted into and beneath the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. Its insertion is inside and below that of the superior oblique muscle. The rectus capitis posticus minor muscle arises from the posterior arch of the atlas by the side of the tubercle, and expands as it passes upwards to be inserted into the inner third of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and the depression between that and the foramen magnum. The obliquus capitis inferior, the strongest of the muscles now under consideration, arises from the spinous process of the axis, between the origin of the rectus posticus major and the insertion of the semi- spinalis colli, and is inserted into the lower and back part of the transverse process of the atlas. The obliquus capitis superior, smaller than the preceding muscle, arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, thence inclines obliquely upwards and backwards, increasing in breadth as it ascends, and is inserted into an impression between the outer parts of the curved lines of the occipital bone. Relations.—The two oblique muscles with the rectus major form the sides of a small triangular space, in the area of which the posterior primary branch of the suboccipital nerve and the vertebral artery are found. Nerves.—All the muscles of the back which act upon the head and spine, viz., the splenius, erector spinse, complexus, and the muscles more deeply seated are supplied by the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves. Actions of the Dorsal Spinal and Cranial Muscles.—In extending the spinal column and head not only the erector spince, but all the muscles of this group come into play, necessarily acting simultaneously on both sides. Acting on one side alone they produce the lateral flexion of the column. While the action of the longitudinally directed rriuscles is limited to these movements, the oblique muscles are farther enabled to rotate the head and spinal column. Thus, when the splenius of one side acts it rotates the head and neck to the same side, while the complexus and transverso-spinales rotate the head and spine to the opposite side. The power of the extensor muscles to straighten the back from the flexed condi- tion, as measured by the muscular dynamometer, varies in adults of medium strength from 200 lbs. to 400 lbs. A certain amount of extension of the spine, as will be hereafter explained, accompanies inspiration ; but if the spine be fixed, some of the erector muscles may, by their costal attachments, depress the ribs, and thus assist in forced expiration. Of the short cranio-vertebral muscles, two—the rectus minor and superior oblique—act principally by drawing the head backwards, that being the chief movement allowed between the atlas and occipital bone ; while the principal action of the rectus posticus major and the inferior oblique, when acting on one side, is to rotate the atlas and skull upon the axis, the former muscle also assist- ing in the extension of the head.314 MUSCLES OF TIIE THORAX. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. The muscles of the thoracic wall are the intercostals, levatores cos- tarum, subcostals, and triangularis sterni, and along with these the diaphragm intervening between the thorax and abdomen may con- veniently be grouped. The intercostal muscles consist of two thin layers of short oblique fibres occupying the intercostal spaces : these layers are named respec- tively the external and internal muscles. Fig. 210. Fig. 210.—Intercostal muscles op the fifth and sixth spaces (after Cloquet). (A. T.) i A, from tlie side ; B, from behind. IV, fourth dorsal vertebra ; V, V, fifth rib and its cartilage; 1,1, levatores costarum muscles, short and long ; 2, 2, external intercostal muscle ; 3, 3, the internal intercostal layer, shown in the lower space by the removal of the external layer, and seen in A in the upper space, in front of the external layer : the deficiency of the internal layer towards the vertebral column is shown in B. The external intercostal muscles are stronger than the internal. Their fibres are intermixed with a considerable quantity of tendinous substance, and are directed obliquely downwards and forwards from the prominent lower margin of one rib to the upper border of the next. The extent of these muscles is generally from the tubercles of the ribs to the outer ends of the cartilages ; but in the upper three or four spaces they do not quite reach the ends of the ribs, while in the last two intervals they are continued forwards between the cartilages. Beyond the points at which the muscles cease the spaces arc occupied by the anterior intercostal aponeuroses, thin shining membranes, composed of fibres having the same direction as those of the external intercostal315 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. muscles with which they are continuous externally, and covering the fore parts of the internal intercostals. Variety.—The siqwacostalis (Wood) is a muscular slip occasionally seen, passing from the anterior end of the first rib downwards to the fourth, sometimes also to the second and third ribs. It has been found connected above with the deep fascia of the neck, or with the scaleni muscles. The internal intercostal muscles consist of fibres which incline downwards and backwards, but are somewhat shorter and less oblique than those of the external muscles. Their attachments take place on the inner surfaces of the ribs, the upper one [being situated immediately above the subcostal groove, the lower one near the upper margin of the bone. Anteriorly they reach to the sternal ends of the costal cartilages, and in the last two spaces they become continuous with the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen : posteriorly they extend as far as, or sometimes, especially in the upper spaces, slightly beyond the angles of the ribs. Where the internal intercostals are deficient behind the inner surface of each external intercostal is lined by the posterior intercostal aponeurosis, a membranous layer which is continuous internally with the superior costo-transverse ligament, and externally is prolonged into a thin fascia between the two intercostal muscles. Relations.—The internal are separated from the external intercostal muscles at the back of the spaces by the intercostal vessels and nerves ; they are lined internally by the pleura. The levatores costarum, twelve on each side, arise from the tips of the transverse processes of the seventh cervical and eleven highest dorsal vertebrae. Corresponding in direction with the external intercostal muscles, into which they are continued at their outer borders, they pass downwards and outwards, spreading as they descend, and each is in- serted into the outer surface of the rib belonging to the vertebra below that from wdiich it springs, between the tubercle and angle. The levator muscles belonging to the lower ribs present some longer additional fibres which, passing over a rib, are inserted into the next one below; these fibres are sometimes distinguished as levatores costarum longiores. Relations—The levatores costarum lie in series superiorly with the middle and posterior scaleni, and interiorly with the lateral lumbar intertransverse muscles. The subcostal muscles (fig. 212, 10) are small, very variable bundles lying on the inner aspect of the thoracic wall, in close connection with the internal intercostals, and chiefly in the neighbourhood of the angles of the ribs. They follow the same direction as the internal intercostal muscles, but their fibres extend over one or two intercostal spaces. They are most constant on the lower ribs. The triangularis sterni, a thin stratum of muscular and tendinous fibres placed within the thorax, behind the costal cartilages, arises from the deep surface of the ensiform process and lower part of the body of the sternum, and from the cartilages of two or three of the lower sternal ribs. Its fibres pass outwards and upwards in a diverging manner, the lowest being horizontal, the middle oblique, and the upper becoming more and more nearly vertical; they are inserted by separate slips into the outer parts of the cartilages of the ribs, sometimes also into the31G MUSCLES OF TIIE THORAX. bones, from the sixth to the second inclusive, on the lower border and inner surface of each. At the lower margin the fibres are in the same plane with those of the transversalis abdominis, of which the triangularis sterni muscle is a continuation upwards. Relations.—The internal mammary vessels pass between its anterior surface and the costal cartilages : the pleura is in contact with its deep surface. Varieties.—The triangularis sterni is subject to much variation as to its extent and points of attachment in different bodies, and even on the opposite sides of the same body. Absence on one or both sides has been recorded. Fig. 211. Fig. 211.—Deep muscles or the anterior wall or the thorax, seen from behind (modified from Luschka). (A. T.) a, back of the manubrium ; b, b, clavicles ; I to XI, anterior parts of eleven ribs and costal cartilages ; 1, 1', sterno-tliyroid muscles, that of the left side being cut short to show more fully the next muscle ; 2, 2', sterno-hyoids ; 3, 3, triangularis sterni; 4, 4, upper part of transversalis abdominis, the right and left muscles meeting at 4', 4', the back of the linea alba ; 5, attachments of the diaphragm to the lower ribs (the twelfth not represented in the figure), interdigitating with those of the transversalis ; 5', the two slips to the ensiform process; 6, 6, (j, internal intercostal muscles extending to the sternum, shown in all the spaces on the right side, but only in the highest two of the left side ; at 7, 7, 7, in the lower spaces of the left side, the external intercostal muscles are seen, the internal having been removed.THE DIAPHRAGM. 317 THE DIAPHRAGM. The diaphragm, or midriff, forms a musculo-tendinous partition between the abdominal and thoracic cavities. It consists of muscular fibres which arch upwards as they converge from the circumference of the visceral cavity to an aponeurotic tendon in the centre, and it is perforated by the various structures which pass from the thorax to the abdomen. According to the mode of origin and arrangement of its fibres the diaphragm is divided into a vertebral portion, arising posteriorly from the lumbar vertebrae by two thick processes or crura, and from two fibrous bands on each side external to the bodies of the vertebrae, called arched ligaments; a costal portion on each side, arising from the car- tilages of the lower six ribs ; and a sternal portion, arising anteriorly from the back of the ensiform process. Fig. 212. Fig. 212.—The lower half of THE THORAX, WITH FOUR LUMBAR VERTEBR.E, SHOWING THE DIA- PHRAGM PROM BEFORE (modified from Lusclika). (A. T.) 5 a, sixtli dorsal vertebra; b, fourth lumbar vertebra; c, ensi form process ; d, d', the aorta pass- ing through its opening in the dia- phragm ; e, oesophagus ; /, opening in the tendon of the diaphragm for the inferior vena cava ; 1, central, 2, right, and 3, left division of the trefoil tendon of the dia- phragm ; 4, right, and 5, left costal part, ascending from the ribs to the margins of the tendon ; 6, right, and 7, left crus; 8, to 8, on the right side, the sixth, seventh and eighth inter- nal intercostal muscles, deficient towards the vertebral column, where in the two upper spaces the levatores costarum and the ex- ternal intercostal muscles 9, 9, are seen ; 10, 10, on the left side, sub- costal muscles, in this case largely developed. The crura or pillars arise by tendinous fibres, intimately connected with the anterior common ligament, from the upper three or four lumbar vertebrae and the interposed discs on the right side, and from the first S and second vertebrae and corresponding discs on the left side. The tendinous portions of the crura are continued higher internally than externally, and curving forwards and inwards join in the middle line so as to form an arch over the front of the aorta; while interiorly their inner ; margins frequently meet behind that vessel, which is thus enclosed in an I oval fibrous loop or ring. The muscular fibres of the crura, springing from the tendons in thick bundles, diverge as they pass upwards to the concave posterior margin of the central aponeurosis. The innermost fibres of the two pillars decussate in front of the aortic opening, and passMUSCLES OF TIIE THORAX. 318 up on opposite sides of the oesophagus, for which they thus bound an elongated aperture, meeting and again decussating to some extent anteriorly as they join the tendon. In the first decussation the fasciculus derived from the right crus usually passes in front of that from the left, which is much smaller and not unfrequently is altogether wanting. The lower ribs and ster- num are drawn upwards so as to expose and stretch the lower surface of the diaphragm, and the four- upper lumbar vertebrae have been exposed by the removal of all the muscles on the right side, and the dissection of the psoas magnus and quadratus lumborum on the left side. a, aorta, emerging from between the pillars on the first lumbar vertebra ; b, oesophagus, in its aperture between the muscular fibres, represented too far to the right; c, aperture for the inferior vena cava, situated at the place of union of tlie middle and right divisions of the tre- foil tendon ; d, fourth lumbar vertebra; e, e, twelfth ribs; /, /, eleventh ribs ; 1, ten- dinous part of the right crus; 2, the left; 3, tendinous arch formed by their union over the aorta, above which the decussation of the muscular fibres is seen; 4, second decussation of muscular fibres in front of the oesophageal opening ; 5, on the right side, the attachment of the arched ligaments to the first and second lumbar trans- verse processes ; from 5 to e, external arched ligament; -f, is in the hollow of the internal arched ligament from which the psoas has been removed ; 5, on the left side, external arched ligament; 6, the middle division of the trefoil tendon, from which in front pass the slips of attachment of the diaphragm to the ensiform process ; 7, the left, and 8, the right divisions of the trefoil tendon ; from the outer and anterior margins of these the costal slips of the muscle are seen diverging, and from the posterior border of the tendon the slips of origin proceeding from the arched ligaments and the tendinous arch of the crura; 9, part of the quadratus lumborum ; 10, part of the psoas magnus. Fig. 213. Fig. 213.—The dia- phragm, FROM BELOW (A. T.) 1 The internal arched ligament (ligamentum arcuatum internum) is a fibrous band which extends from the body to the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, and sometimes also to that of the second, and arches over the upper part of the psoas muscle. The external arched ligament (ligamentum arcuatum externum) extends outwards from the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the last rib, arching over the front of the quadratus lumborum : it is the upper part of the fascia covering that muscle, somewhat increased in thickness. From botli arched ligaments muscular fibres take origin, and are directed upwards319 THE DIAPHRAGM. to tlie lateral portions of the posterior margin of the tendinous centre. It frequently happens that fleshy fibres spring only from the inner portion of the external arched ligament, and in that case a triangular interval is left between the vertebral and costal portions of the muscle through which the areolar tissue of the thoracic cavity becomes con- tinuous with that of the abdomen. The costal portion of the muscle consists of a series of serrated slips arising from the cartilages of the six lower ribs, and interdigitating with the attachments of the transversalis abdominis muscle (fig. 211). They sometimes arise also in part from the osseous ribs. The sternal portion is a narrow slip, sometimes divided into two, separated on each side from the costal portion by an interval which gives passage to the epigastric branch of the internal mammary artery, together with some lymphatics, and in which the lining membranes of the thorax and abdomen are separated only by a small quantity of loose connective tissue. The sternal fibres of the diaphragm are much the shortest; the lateral costal fibres are the longest. The fibres of the sternal and costal slips, after being united, rise in an arched and converging manner to be inserted into the anterior and external margins of the central tendon. The central tendon—trefoil or cor diform tendon—is a strong aponeurosis, forming the central and highest part of the diaphragm. It is elongated fi’om side to side, convex in front and concave behind, and consists of three lobes or alee, partly separated by indentations. The right lobe is the. largest; and the left, which is elongated and narrow, is the smallest of the three. The central tendon is surrounded on every side by the muscular portion of the diaphragm, the fibres of which are directly continuous with those of the tendon. The tendinous fibres cross one another, and are interwoven in various directions. Foramina.—There are in the diaphragm three large perforations for the passage respectively of the aorta, the oesophagus, and the vena cava, besides some smaller holes or fissures which are less regular.—a. The foramen for the aorta (hiatus aorticus), placed in front of the vertebrae, is bounded by tendinous fibres of the crura as already described. Besides the aorta, this opening transmits the thoracic duct, and generally also the large azygos vein. b. The foramen for the oesophagus, higher and farther forwards than the preceding, as well as a little to its left, is sepa- rated from that opening by the decussating fibres of the crura. It is oval in form, and is generally entirely surrounded by muscular fibres ; in some rare cases, however, a small part in front is formed by the margin of the central tendon. Through it pass also the pneumo-gastric nerves. c. The opening for the vena cava (foramen qnadratum) is placed in the highest part of the diaphragm, in the tendinous centre at the junction of the right and middle lobes, posteriorly. Its form is somewhat quad- rangular ; and it is bounded by fasciculi of tendinous fibres running parallel with its sides. Besides the foregoing large foramina there are small perforations through the crura for the splanchnic nerves on both sides, and for the small azygos vein on the left side, while the large azygos vein often takes its course through the right crus. The cord of the sympathetic nerve either perforates the outer part of the crus or passes under the internal arched ligament. Form and Relations.—The upper or thoracic surface of the diaphragm is highly arched. Its xrosterior and lateral fibres, ascending from their connection with the320 MUSCLES OF TILE THOEAX. lower margin of tlie thorax, are for a considerable extent placed close to the ribs, the lungs, especially in their collapsed condition, not descending so far as the attachments of the diaphragm. The vault of the diaphragm rises higher on the right than on the left side. In the dead body it rises on the right side to the level of the junction of the fifth rib with the sternum, and on the left side only as high as the sixth. This difference is connected with the great size and firm- ness of the liver on the right side. It is covered superiorly by the pleuree and the pericardium ; the fibrous layer of the latter membrane blending with the tendinous centre, as well as with the fascia covering its muscular substance. The lower surface, of a deeply concave form, is lined by the peritoneum, and has in apposition with it the liver, the stomach, the pancreas and spleen, and the kidneys. Varieties.—The sternal portion of the muscle is not unfrequently wanting. As a very rare occurence a fleshy fasciculus has been seen passing from the upper surface of the diaphragm to the wall of the oesophagus (Haller, Cruveilhier). Nerves.—The intercostals, levatores costarum, subcostals, and triangularis sterni are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, and likewise by sympa- thetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. Actions.—Movements of Respiration.—The mechanical act of respiration consists of two sets of movements, viz., those of inspiration and of expiration, in which air is successively drawn into the lungs and expelled from them by the alternate increase and diminution of the thoracic cavity. The changes in the capacity of the thorax are effected by the expansion and contraction of its lateral walls, called costal respiration, and by the depression and elevation of the floor of the cavity, through contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm, called dia- phragmatic or abdominal respiration. These two movements are normally combined in the act of respiration, but in different circumstances one of them is resorted to more than the other. Thus, abdominal respiration predominates in the male, while costal respiration is employed to a greater extent in the female. Inspiration.—The study of the movements of the thoracic walls in respiration presents considerable difficulty from the complexity of these movements, and from the impossibility of perfectly imitating in the dead body the mechanical con- ditions under which they occur in life. On a fresh ligamentous thorax, by raising- and depressing the sternum, the ribs may be moved upwards and downwards nearly parallel to one another ; the first rib moving as freely as the others. But during life several causes combine to make the first rib more fixed than those which follow ; as for example, the weight of the upper extremity, and the strain of the intercostal muscles and ribs beneath. The movements of the thoracic walls in respiration are as follows : 1st. The antero-posterior diameter is increased by a forward movement of the sternum with the attached ribs and cartilages ; the lower end of the sternum being raised and advanced, while the upper end, which in easy respiration is at rest, or nearly so, is only raised in full inspiration. 2nd. The transverse diameter of the thorax is increased by the elevation and the ever- sion of the ribs ; the first of these movements bringing larger costal arches to a level occupied in expiration by smaller arches above them ; and the second, by the rotation of the ribs round an axis extending from their vertebral extremities to the sternum, increases the width of their arch outwards. These movements are facilitated by the elasticity of the ribs and, to a greater extent, of the car- tilages, allowing of the opening out of the angle between the two, which is ren- dered necessary by the resistance offered by the sternum and the weight of the upper limb to the forward and upward movement of the anterior extremities of the costal arches, while the capacity of the thorax is also increased in its inferior part by the simultaneous backward movement of the lower ribs, due to the ar- rangement of the costo-transverse articulations (see p. 149). 3rd. The vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity is increased by the descent of the platform of the diaphragm forming its floor ; and as the lower ribs are drawn backwards and out- wards rather than raised, while the last rib may even move somewhat downwards, the depth of the hinder part of the cavity is by this means also slightly augmented. Lastly, it may be remarked, that extension of the vertebral column is an important agent in respiration, for when the column is bent forwards, the ribs are pressedACTIOX OF RESPIRATORY MUSCLES. 321 together in the concavity of the curve, and, conversely, when the column is ex- tended, the ribs are separated. Action of the intercostal muscles.—The manner in which these muscles act has been a subject of controversy from an early time, and is not yet thoroughly deter- mined. It is now generally agreed that the external muscles are elevators of the ribs, and therefore muscles of inspiration, but as to the action of the internal muscles there is still considerable difference of opinion. According to one view, defended by Haller, the external and internal layers have a common action, the decussating fibres acting in the direction of the diagonal between them ; while ac- cording to another view, that of Hamberger, the external intercostal muscles are admitted to be elevators, but the internal are held to be depressors of the ribs. More recently these views have been modified by Hutchinson to the extent of admitting that the external intercostal muscles, and the parts of the internal intercostals placed between the costal cartilages, elevate the ribs, and that the lateral portions of the internal intercostals act as depressors. This view is illustrated mechanically, and supposed by some to be demonstrated, by means of a mechanism of rods and elastic bands imitating the conditions of the ribs. But the ribs differ from such rods in respect that they are not straight or rigid bars, and are not free at either end, but are deeply curved, and have the greatest extent of motion in the middle of their arch ; and in the living subject the costal arches, in their elevation, both rotate upon certain axes and diminish their curvature, instead of describing a simple upward and downward movement like the bars, so that it is impossible to draw anycertain conclusion from such imperfect imitations of the mechanism. The view advocated by Haller, that the two muscles act in combination as elevators of the ribs, appears to derive support from several circumstances, among which may be particularly mentioned the deficiency of the external intercostal muscles in front and of the internal behind, in situations where both would undoubtedly act as depressors, and the experiments of Duchenne, who found (“ Physiol, des Mouvements,” &c., p. G46) that the direct galvanic stimulation of the external in- tercostal muscle throughout the fifth space caused the lower rib to rise towards the upper, and likewise that the stimulation of the internal intercostal muscle in the inter cartilaginous part of the space also caused the lower rib to rise, and who farther found that when the galvanic stimulus was so strong as to reach the intercostal nerve, and throw the whole of the internal as well as the external in- tercostal muscle into action, the lower rib was still elevated. This view also is the one adopted by Henle and Luschka, the latter referring especially to the experiments of Budge on the muscles of living animals, as proving that the in- ternal intercostal muscles elevate the ribs (Budge, “ Lehrbuch der Physiologie des Menschen,” Weimar, 18G0, p. 79). On the other hand, the careful and extensive series of measurements carried out by v. Ebner on the partially dissected thorax, both in the collapsed and inflated conditions, tend to confirm Hutchinson’s view, indicating that, with the exception of the first two intervals, the intercostal spaces are generally widened and the fibres of the interosseous internal inter- costals lengthened during inspiration (Arch. f. Anatomie, 1880, p. 185). Apart from the action of these muscles in producing movement of the ribs, they also fulfil an important function in supporting and maintaining an equable tension in the portions of the thoracic wall corresponding to the intercostal spaces, without opposing the resistance to the movements that would be presented by a firmer although elastic structure in the same situation. The levatorcs costavum are usually considered to have a similar action with the posterior fibres of the external intercostal muscles, and are therefore ranked among the agents of inspiration. The above-mentioned experiments of v. Ebner, however, tend to show that these muscles have very little influence upon the elevation of the ribs, but that their fibres are most contracted during extension and lateral flexion of the dorsal part of the spinal column. The scalene muscles also contribute, even in normal and quiet inspiration, to the support and elevation of the first and second ribs ; and it is obvious that the serratvs posticus superior must have a similar effect on those upper ribs to which it is attached. The action of the diaphragm is more easily understood than that of the inter- costal muscles. By its contraction and descent its convexity is diminished, the VOL. i. YMUSCLES AND FASCIJE OF THE ABDOMEN. 322 abdominal viscera are pressed downwards, and the thorax expanded vertically. The fibres arising- from the ribs, being directed nearly vertically upwards from their origins, must tend to raise those ribs, and Duchenne has shown that the contrac- tion of the diaphragm by itself elevates and expands the upper ribs to which it is attached, but only so long as the vault of the muscle is supported by the abdominal viscera, for when they are removed it no longer has that action (op. cit. p. 620). The scrratus posticus inferior and quadratus lumborum muscles, by opposing the diaphragm, and thus giving it a fixed point on which to descend, become assistant muscles of inspiration. The anterior fibres of the diaphragm, being directed more horizontally towards the central tendon, oppose the forward motion of the sternum; hence the sternum becomes arched in patients long subject to asthma. (Hutchinson, Article “ Thorax,” in Todd’s “ Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology ; ” Meyer, “ Physiologische Anatomic.”) In more forcible inspiration, and more especially in severe attacks of dyspnoea, there are called into play other powerful muscles, to secure the inspiratory action of which a fixed attachment must be provided by the support and elevation of the shoulder and arm ; among these maybe enumerated th e pectoralis minor, the lower part of the pectoralis major and possibly also the lowest slips of the scrratus magnus. Additional assistance in elevating the sternum and upper ribs is afforded by the starno-mastoicl and the infrahyoid muscles. Expiration.—In normal and quiet expiration the diminution of the capacity of the chest is mainly, if not wholly, due to the return of the walls of the chest to the condition of rest, in consequence of their own elastic reaction, and of the elasticity and weight of the viscera and other parts displaced by inspira- tion ; the lungs themselves, after distension by air, exert considerable elastic force, and no doubt the ribs and their cartilages react strongly by their elastic return from the elevated and expanded condition into which they had been thrown by the inspiratory forces. In more forcible acts of expiration, in muscular efforts of the limbs and trunk, and in efforts of expulsion from the thoracic and abdominal cavities, all the muscles which tend to depress the ribs, and those which compress the abdominal cavity, concur in powerful action to empty the lungs, to fix the trunk, and to expel the contents of the abdominal viscera. (See farther, Action of the Abdominal Muscles.”) MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OE THE ABDOMEN. Fascial—The superficial fascia of tlie abdomen is usually described as consisting of two layers. One of these, the subcutaneous layer, corre- sponds in its general features with the areolar subcutaneous tissue of other parts of the body, and contains embedded in it a very variable and often large quantity of fat. The other, or deeper layer, is of a denser and more membranous structure, and contains a considerable amount of yellow elastic tissue in its substance ; it is only connected by loose areolar tissue to the subjacent aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, except at the umbilicus and along the linea alba, where the attachment is more intimate, while interiorly a fibrous and elastic expansion of con- siderable strength, derived from this layer, passes from the lower part of the linea alba and the symphysis pubis to the dorsum of the penis, constituting the suspensory ligament of that organ. These two layers are both con- tinuous with the superficial fascia on other parts of the trunk: they can be dissected as distinct layers only on the fore part of the abdomen, and they are separated in a more marked manner in the immediate neighbourhood of the groin, where subcutaneous vessels, such as the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, as well as lymphatic glands, lie between them. This distinct portion of the deeper layer is known as the fascia of Scarpa (Struthers), and passing down freely over Poupart’s ligament it ends im- mediately below that band by becoming blended with the fascia lata ; but internally, near the external abdominal ring, it remains free and is pro-EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 323 longed downwards over the spermatic cord to the scrotum. The sub- cutaneous layer, losing its fat, is combined with the deeper layer as they both pass to the scrotum ; and here the united layer acquires a reddish brown colour, and undergoes a modification in structure by becoming mingled largely with involuntary muscular fibres, constituting the dados tunic of the scrotum. Some involuntary muscular fibres also exist in the altered superficial fascia which covers the penis. This covering, on leaving the scrotum posteriorly, becomes continuous with the superficial fascia of the perineum. The parts of the superficial fascia here described have received minute atten- tion from anatomists, by reason of their close relation to the seat of hernial tumours and other pathological conditions ; the adhesion of the fascia below Poupart's ligament, and its disposition over the inguinal aperture, spermatic cord, and scrotum, while they prevent the descent upon the thigh of fluid which has been effused beneath the fascia, cause it either to spread upwards upon the abdomen or to take its course downwards into the scrotum. The deep layer of the abdominal fascia is also interesting as corresponding with the tunica abdominalis of animals, a strong membrane consisting almost entirely of yellow elastic tissue, which may be well seen in the horse or ox, and which contributes to the support of the viscera. Muscles.—The muscular wall of the abdomen is formed on each side for the most part by three layers of muscle, the fibres of which run in different directions ; those of the superficial and middle layers being oblique, and those of the innermost layer being transverse. In front, these three layers of muscle are replaced by tendinous expansions, which meet in the middle line, giving rise to the tinea alba; on each side of this line the fibres of the rectus muscle extend in a vertical direction between the tendinous layers, supported usually at the lower end by the pyramidalis muscle. Posteriorly, the wall is formed in part by apo- neurosis, and in part by muscles of which the fibres are chiefly vertical, viz., the muscles of the back, and in front of them the quadratus lum- borum. The obliquus externus abdominis muscle, the strongest and most superficial of the three broad muscles of the abdomen, arises from the outer surface of the lower eight ribs, by slips arranged in a serrated series, four or five of them interdigitating with origins of the serratus magnus, and three or four with origins of the latissimus dorsi. The lower and upper digitations of the external oblique are connected with the ribs near their cartilages, the intermediate ones are attached to the ribs at some distance from their extremities ; the lowest digitation generally embraces the cartilage of the twelfth rib. The fleshy fibres from the last two ribs pass down in a nearly vertical direction to be in- serted into the external margin of the crest of the ilium for about the an- terior half of its length ; all the rest incline downwards and forwards, and terminate in tendinous fibres, which form the broad aponeurosis by ■which the greater part of the muscle is inserted. The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle is wider below than above, and is larger than that of either of the subjacent broad muscles. Consisting for the most part of oblique fibres, which continue the direc- tion of the muscular fasciculi, it extends inwards towards the middle line in front, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side in the linea alba ; at some distance from this line, but farther out above than below\ y 2MUSCLES OF TEE ABDOMEN. 324 it becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis beneath, and forms a part of the sheath of the rectus muscle in the whole extent of the space from the ensiform process to the symphysis pubis. The upper part of the aponeurosis is connected with the pectoralis major, giving origin to the lowest fibres of that muscle. The lowest fibres of the aponeurosis are closely aggregated together, and extend across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubis, in the form of a thickened band, which is called Poupartfs ligament. This ligament is curved with its convexity downwards owing to the attachment of the iliac portion of the fascia lata to its lower border, but the degree of curvature and the tension of the band vary with the position of the limb, being increased Fig. 214. Fig. 214.—Superficial view of tiie muscles of the abdomen, from before and SLIGHTLY FROM THE SIDE. (A. T.) £ 14. 14, external oblique muscle ; 15, placed over tlie ensiform process at the upper end of the linea alba ; 15', umbilicus ; 16, symphysis pubis at the lower end of the linea alba ; above 16, the pyramidales muscles are seen, showing through the abdominal aponeurosis ; from the upper 14 to 17, the linea semilunaris ; between this line and the linea alba are seen the line® transverse ; above 22, the curved margin of Poupart’s ligament; on either side of 16, the external abdominal ring is indicated.EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. 325 ■with extension and eversion, and diminished with flexion and inversion of the thigh. The"aponeurosis is perforated by numerous small apertures for the passage of cutaneous vessels and nerves, and near the body of the pubis by one large opening which transmits the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female. This is known as the superficial or external abdominal ring {external inguinal aperture), and is formed by the separation of the fibres composing the lower and inner angle of the apo- neurosis from the innermost part of Poupart’s ligament. The direction of the opening is obliquely upwards and outwards, conformably to the direction of the principal fibres of the aponeurosis ; its base is formed by the pubic crest, and its sides by the two sets of diverging fibres called the pillars. The upper or internal pillar is flat and straight, and is attached to the anterior surface of the symphysis pubis, decussating with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side : the lower or external pillar is in its upper part also flat and thin, but its lower part, which is formed by the inner end of Poupart’s ligament, is thick and prismatic, and curves strongly inwards to its termination at the pubic spine. While the mesial attachment of Poupart’s ligament takes place mainly into the pubic spine, the deepest fibres of that band are sent backwards to be fixed to the innermost part of the ilio-pectineal line for a distance of about three-quarters of an inch, coustituting a triangular layer which is termed Gimbernat's ligament, and which presents upper and lower surfaces, and a concave external margin, the latter being free and forming the inner boundary of the crural ring. Some of the fibres of Gimbernat’s ligament and of the outer pillar of the ring are usually attached only indirectly to the bone; and these are reflected upwards and inwards beneath the spermatic cord, becoming incorporated with the lowest part of the front of the sheath of the rectus, and reach the middle line where they interlace with the fibres of the opposite side. They form a variably developed layer, placed behind the lower part of the external abdominal ring and its inner pillar, and known as the triangular fascia. On the surface of the aponeurosis, especially in its lower part, arc seen slender bundles of fibres crossing transversely and binding together its principal oblique fibres. These are the inter columnar fibres, and they are most developed in the neighbourhood of the outer third of Poupart’s ligament, and the anterior superior iliac spine. They extend across the upper part of the external abdominal ring, closing to a greater or less extent the angular interval left between the diverging pillars, and from them a thin membrane is prolonged downwards upon the spermatic cord, known as the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia. The external abdominal ring thus acquires a somewhat oval form, and its size varies in proportion to the degree of development of these fibres. In the male the opening has an average length of an inch or a little more, with a breadth of half as much. In the female it is usually much smaller. Relations.—The external oblique muscle is superficial with the exception of a small part at its posterior border which is overlapped by the latissimus dorsi. It lies upon the internal oblique and the lower ribs with their cartilages, and the intervening intercostal muscles. The origins of the external oblique and latissimus sometimes meet at the iliac crest, but more frequently a small interval is left, and the free portion of bone forms the base of a triangular space between the two muscles, in which a hernia (lumbar hernia) has been seen to protrude.326 MUSCLES OF TIIE ABDOMEN. Varieties.—The external oblique varies chiefly in the number of its attach- ments to the ribs. Absence of the highest or lowest digitation is not uncommon ; on the other hand, one or more slips may be doubled,'most frequently those from the eighth and ninth ribs ; or an additional slip may arise from the lumbar aponeurosis below the last rib. Besides the connection with the pectoralis major, some fibres are occasionally continued into the serratus magnus. The muscle has also been found double, the deeper portion passing from the ninth, tenth and eleventh ribs to the crest of the ilium (Macalister). The obliquus interims abdominis muscle, placed under cover of the external oblique, arises by fleshy fibres from the external half or two- thirds of the deep surface of Poupart’s ligament; by short tendinous a, anterior superior iliac spine ; b, great trochanter ; c, pubic spine ; d, posterior layer of the lumbar fascia ; VI and XII, sixth and twelfth ribs ; 1, lower part of the pectoralis major, where it is attached to the aponeuro- sis of the external oblique; 2, 2, lower digitations of the serratus mag- nus ; 3, 3, costal attachments of the latissimus dorsi; 3', its iliac attach- ment ; 4, trapezius; 5, 5, divided attachments of the external oblique, left in connection with the ribs ; 5', 5', aponeurosis of the external oblique divided in front of the rectus, where it joins the sheath ; 6, internal ob- lique at its middle ; 6', 6', line where its aponeurosis divides to form the sheath of the rectus; 4- + + XII, its attachment, to the lowest ribs ; 6", conjoined tendon ; 7, sartorius ; 8, rectus femoris ; 9, tensor vaginse femoris ; 10, gluteus medius; 11, gluteus maximus. fibres from the iliac crest for two-thirds of its length ; and by some fleshy fibres again from the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle (lumbar fascia), in the angle between the crest of the ilium and the outer margin of the erector spinas muscle. From those attachments the fibres, spreading over the side of the abdomen, pass to be inserted as follows : the most posterior fibres pass upwards and forwards to the lower margins of the cartilages of the last three ribs, where they are inserted in the same plane with the internal intercostal muscles ; those arising from the anterior part of the Fig. 215. Fig. 215.—Lateral view op tiie MUSCLES OP THE ABDOMEN, THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE HAVING BEEN EXPOSED BY THE REMOVAL OF THE EXTERNAL OBLIQUE (modi- fied from Henle). (A. T.) A327 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. iliac crest pass forwards, the upper more obliquely and the succeeding ones more horizontally, to end in an aponeurosis on the front of the abdomen ; those from the anterior superior spine run horizontally to the same aponeurosis ; while the fibres from Poupart’s ligament, usually paler than the rest, arch downwards and inwards over the spermatic cord, or the round ligament of the uterus, and end in tendinous fibres common to them and the lower part of the transversal is muscle, thus forming the structure known as the conjoined tendon of these muscles ; through the medium of this tendon they are attached to the front of the pubis, and to the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line, behind Gimbernat’s ligament. The spermatic cord, or round ligament, passes under the arched lower borders of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles on its way from the internal to the external abdominal ring. The aponeurosis of the internal oblique may be regarded as the ex- panded tendon of the muscle continued forwards and inwards : it extends from the margin of the thorax to the pubis, and is wider at the upper than at the lower end. At the outer border of the rectus muscle they aponeurosis divides into two layers, one passing before, the other be- hind that muscle ; and the two reunite at its inner border in the linea alba, so as to enclose it in a sheath. The anterior layer, as already mentioned, becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle, and the posterior layer is similarly incorporated with that of the transversalis. The upper border of the posterior lamina is attached to the margins of the seventh and eighth rib-cartilages, as well as to the ensiform process. This division of the aponeurosis into two layers stops short a little above half-way between the um- bilicus and the pubis, the aponeurosis below that level remaining un- divided, and along with that of the transversalis muscle to which it is united, passing wholly in front of the rectus. The deficiency thus re- sulting in the posterior wall of the sheath of the rectus is marked superiorly by a more or less well defined lunated edge, the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubis—the semilunar fold of Douglas. Relations.—The internal oblique muscle is almost entirely covered by the ex- ternal oblique. The hindmost part of the muscle, arising from the lumbar fascia, is under cover of the latissimus dorsi, and a small part is frequently exposed between the latissimus and the external oblique, when those muscles fail to meet at their iliac origins. Varieties.—A fibrous band or inscription is not uncommonly seen in the upper part of this muscle, prolonged forwards from the point of the tenth or eleventh rib, and a slender cartilaginous slip, separate from that of the rib, has been seen lying in this inscription. An additional slip of insertion, into the ninth costal cartilage, is occasionally present. The cremaster, a muscle peculiar to the male, consists of fibres lying in series with those of the lower border of the internal oblique muscle. It has an external and an internal attachment. The external attachment is to the inner part of Poupart’s ligament, and there its fibres are continuous with those of the internal oblique muscle : the in- ternal attachment, smaller and less constant, is by means of a tendinous band to the spine and crest of the pubis, close to the insertion of the in- ternal oblique muscle. The superior fibres of the muscle extend between these attachments in a scries of successively longer loops, descending in front of the spermatic cord, a few of them reaching as low as the level of the testicle ; the remaining fibres, the greater number of which328 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. descend from the outer attachment, and only a few from the inner, spread out inferiorly and are embedded in the substance of a fascia termed cremasteric, which adheres to the fascia propria of the testicle. Sometimes the only fibres developed are a bundle descending from the outer attachment. In the female there may he almost constantly detected a few fibres des- cending on the round ligament of the uterus, which correspond with the last- mentioned fibres of the cremaster muscle of the male. Fig. 216. Fig. 216.—Diagram op a transverse section of the wail of the abdomen, to SHOW THE CONNECTIONS OF THE LUMBAR FASCIA, AND THE SHEATH OF THE RECTUS MUSCLE. (A. T.) i A, at the level of the third lumbar vertebra ,* B, the fore part, at a few inches above the pubis. a, spinous process, b, body of the third lumbar vertebra ; 1, external oblique muscle ; 2, internal oblique ; 3, transversalis ; 4, a dotted line to mark the position of the transversalis fascia ; 5, 5, in A, anterior and posterior parts of the sheath of the rectus, formed by the aponeurosis of the internal oblique splitting at the outer edge of the muscle, 2' ; 6, rectus abdominis ; 7, anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, passing in front of the quadratus lumboriun to the anterior surface of the transverse process; 8, psoas magnus and parvus muscles ; 9, 9', erectores spin® muscles ; 9 + , middle layer of the lumbar fascia (posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis) passing to the extremity of the transverse process ; 10, 10+ , posterior layer of the lumbar fascia, connected with the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior : in A, at the sheath of the rectus, the aponeurosis of the external oblique is seen to unite in front with the sheath, while that of the transversalis is seen uniting with it behind : in B, the section is taken below the semilunar fold of Douglas, and all the tendons pass in front of the rectus at 5'; the + near this, and in a similar place in A, marks the middle line, and the place of the union of the several aponeuroses in the linea alba. The transversalis abdominis muscle, subjacent to the internal oblique, arises from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs by fleshy slips which interdigitate with the costal attachments of theTRAXSYERSALIS ABDOMINIS MUSCLE. 329 diaphragm (fig. 211, p. 31G) ; from the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebras by a strong posterior aponeurosis ; from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium in the anterior two-thirds of its extent; and from the outer third of Poupart’s ligament. The greater part of the fibres have a horizontal direction, and extend forwards to a broad aponeurosis in front ; the lowest fibres curve downwards like those of the internal oblique, with which they are frequently closely united, and are inserted into the front Fig. 217.—Lateral view OF THE TRUNK, SHOW- ING THE SERRATUS MAG- NUS AND TRANSVERSALIS ABDOMINIS MUSCLES. (A. T.) i For the explanation of the references in the upper part of the figure see the description of fig. 160, p. 201. e, placed on the pubis, points to the inser- tion of Gimbernat’s liga- ment ; VI, XII, sixth and twelfth ribs ; L1, first lumbar vertebra; 5, costal origins of the transversalis abdominis; 6, origin of the muscle from the trans- verse processes of the lum- bar vertebne by the lum- bar aponeurosis; 6', part rising from the crest of the ilium ; 7, lower por- tion rising from the outer part of Poupart’s ligament; 8, sheath of the rectus muscle opened in its upper part by removing the aponeuroses of the oblique muscles ; 9, the same in its lower part left entire at the place where the tendons pass entirely in front of the rectus muscle; 10, interspinales muscles; 11, gluteus minimus ; 12, pyriformis. Fig. 217. of the pubis and into the ilio-pectineal line, through the medium of the conjoined ten- don already described as common to this muscle and the inter- nal oblique. The anterior aponeurosis of the Lransversalis muscle commences in the greater part of its extent at the distance of about an inch from the outer border of the rectus muscle ; but at its upper extremity it is much narrower, and there the muscular fibres of opposite sides approach330 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. nearly to the middle line behind the recti muscles. In its upper two-thirds it becomes united with the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the in- ternal oblique, forming the posterior Avail of the rectus sheath, and interiorly, where that aponeurosis passes entirely in front of the rectus, it takes a similar position in relation to that muscle. The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis springs by strong fibrous bundles from the tips of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and extends outwards to the commencement of the fleshy fibres, being placed between the erector spinae and quadratus lumborum muscles. Superiorly it is attached to the lower border of the last rib, and in- teriorly to the ilio-lumbar ligament and the adjoining part of the iliac crest. This membrane constitutes the middle layer of the lumbar fascia, and it is joined behind, at the outer edge of the erector spinae, by the posterior layer, and in front, more externally, at the outer edge of the quadratus, by the anterior layer of that structure. Relations.—Between the outer surface of this muscle and the internal oblique are placed the lower intercostal nerves and a branch of the internal circumflex artery: its inner surface is lined throughout by the transversalis fascia, which separates it from the subperitoneal tissue and the peritoneum. The highest part of the transversalis is continued into the triangularis steriii muscle of the thorax. Varieties.—The transversalis has been found fused with the internal oblique (Soemmering) ; or entirely absent (Macalister). The spermatic cord has been seen to pierce its lower border (Guthrie). The rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, consisting of vertical fibres, situated at the fore part of the abdomen, within a tendinous sheath formed in the manner already described in the account of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle ; it is separated from the muscle of the other side by a narrow interval, which is occupied by the linea alba. It arises from the pubis by a flat tendon consisting of tAVO parts, of which the internal is much the smaller and is connected with the ligaments covering the front of the pubic symphysis, becoming- blended with the one of the opposite side, while the external is fixed to the pubic crest. Expanding and becoming thinner as it ascends, the muscle is inserted into the cartilages of three ribs, the fifth, sixth, and seventh, as well as usually into the bone of the fifth, by three distinct slips of unequal size. Some fibres also are frequently found attached to the ensiform process. The fibres of the rectus muscle are interrupted by three or more irregular tendinous intersections, known as the inscriptiones tendinece. The three Avhich are most constant are placed, one opposite the umbilicus, another on a level Avith the lower end of the ensiform process, and the third intermediately betAveen the first tAvo ; and these generally run across the whole or the greater part of the muscle. When one or tAvo additional transverse lines occur, they are usually incomplete; one of them is very generally placed below the umbilicus, the position of the other is variable. The intersections do not usually penetrate the AA-hole thickness of the muscle, but are confined chiefly to its anterior fibres, and are firmly united to the anterior Avail of the sheath of the muscle, while the posterior surface of the muscle has no attachment to the sheath. Varieties.—The rectus is sometimes joined by some fibres springing from the lower part of the linea alba. The insertion of the muscle has been seen pro- longed upwards to the fourth, and even to the third rib.PYEAMIDALIS MUSCLE. 331 Tlie tendinous intersections have been regarded as indications of the ab- dominal ribs of some of the lower animals ; they are rather vestiges of the septa between the original vertebral myotomes. They sometimes extend outwards from the rectus, and penetrate partially into the internal oblique. For tlie explanation of the references in the upper part of the figure see p. 199. e, c, cartilages of the fifth ribs ; d, ensiform process ; c, symphysis pubis ; /, an- terior superior iliac spine ; 12, origin of the serratus magnus; 13,13, on the right side, the rectus abdominis ; on the left side, 13', 13', the divided ends of the same muscle, a portion being removed} 14, pyramidalis muscle, exposed on the left side ; 15, on the right side, the internal oblique muscle; 15', origin of its lower fibres from the deep surface of Poupart’s ligament; 15", conjoined tendon of the in- ternal oblique and transver- salis; 15, on the left side, cut edge of the internal ob- lique, shown diagrammatic- ally, to indicate the manner in which its aponeurosis splits to form the sheath of the rectus muscle ; 16, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, uniting in front with the sheath of the rectus. The pyramidalis is a small muscle rest- ing on the lower part of tlie rectus, in the sheath of which it is contained. It arises from tlie front of the pubis and the ligaments of the symphysis, and, becoming narrow as it ascends over the lower third of the interval between the umbilicus and pubis, is inserted into the linea alba. Fig. 218.—Deep muscles OF THE FORE PART OF THE TRUNK AND SHOULDER. (A. l’O * Fig. 213. Varieties.—This muscle varies greatly in size, and it is often absent on one or both sides, in which case the size of the lower part of the rectus is increased : in some instances it has been found to be double.332 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. The linea alba is a -white fibrous structure extending perpendicularly in the middle line from the ensiform process to the pubis. This tendin- ous band is formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and the transverse muscles, the tendinous fibres being continued in a decussating manner from one side to the other. Some longitudinal fibres are distinguishable towards its lower end. It is broader superiorly than interiorly, and a little below the middle it is widened out into a circular flat space, in the centre of which is situated the cicatrix of the umbilicus. The linea semilunaris is a curved linear depression on each side of the front of the abdomen, situated along the outer border of the rectus muscle, and appearing as a white line on the surface of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It corresponds to a narrow portion of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, between its division to form the sheath of the rectus internally, and the termination of the fleshy fibres of the muscle externally. The linece transverscc are cross lines, corre- sponding to, and produced by, the tendinous intersections of the rectus. The qiia&ratus lumborum is an irregularly quadrilateral muscle, somewhat broader below than above, placed between the last rib and the pelvis, close to the vertebral column. It arises below by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the iliac crest for about two inches, behind and external to the attachment of that ligament, and on the inner side from the transverse processes of two, three or four lumbar vertebrae, by tendinous and fleshy slips, the fibres of which ascend on the anterior surface of the muscle. It is inserted into the lower border of the last rib for about half its length, and into the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae, by tendinous slips placed behind the slips arising from those processes. Relations.—The quadratus lumborum is contained in a sheath formed by the anterior and middle layers of the lumbar fascia. Its anterior surface is over- lapped by the psoas, and upon it rests the kidney, while the ascending or de- scending colon lies in front of its outer border. The inner border is intimately connected with the lateral intertransverse muscles. Varieties.—The number of the points of insertion of this muscle to the ver- tebra, and the extent of its connection with the last rib, vary in different instances. It is sometimes attached to the body or transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra. Nerves.—The abdominal muscles are supplied generally by the lower inter- costal nerves. The internal oblique and transversalis receive also branches from the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and the cremaster is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The quadratus lumborum receives small branches from the last dorsal and the upper lumbar nerves. Actions.—The abdominal muscles not only form a great part of the wall to enclose and support the abdominal viscera, but by their contraction are capable of acting successively on those viscera, on the thorax, and on the vertebral column. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles constrict the cavity and compress the viscera, particularly if the diaphragm be fixed at the same time by the closure of the glottis, as occurs in vomiting and in the expulsion of the foetus, the fasces, and the urine. If the vertebral column be fixed, these muscles raise the diaphragm by pressing on the abdominal viscera, draw down the ribs, and contract the base of the thorax, and so contribute to expiration ; but if the vertebral column be not fixed, the thorax will be bent directly forwards, when the muscles of both sides act, or inclined laterally when they act on one side only, or rotated when the external oblique of one side and the opposite internal oblique act in combination.LINING FASCIA OF THE ABDOMEN. 333 If the thorax he fixed, the abdominal muscles maybe made to act on the pelvis ; thus, in the action of climbing, the trunk and arms being elevated and fixed, the pelvis is drawn upwards, either directly or to one side, as a preparatory step to the elevation of the lower limbs. Lining fascia of the abdomen.—On the inner surface of the trail of the abdomen is a membranous structure which lines the visceral aspect of the deepest stratum of muscles : it is divisible into two principal parts, the transversalis fascia and iliac fascia. The transversalis fascia is named from its position on the deep surface of the transversalis muscle. It is strongest in the lower part of the abdomen, where the muscular and tendinous support is somewhat weaker. Followed upwards from this situation, it becomes gradually slighter, and beyond the margin of the ribs it is continued into a thin areolar layer on the under surface of the diaphragm. Along the inner margin of the iliac crest, between the iliacus and transversalis muscles, the fascia is attached to the periosteum. For about two inches inwards from the anterior superior iliac spine, it is closely connected with the back of Poupart’s ligament, and is there directly continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the middle of Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac artery and vein, as they pass out into the thigh, intervene between the transversalis fascia and the iliac fascia, and from this point to the edge of Gimbernat’s ligament the transversalis fascia is prolonged down- wards under Poupart’s ligament, and over the vessels, forming the anterior portion of the funnel-shaped crural sheath. As this prolongation of the fascia passes under Poupart’s ligament it is strenghtened by a dense hand of fibres, constituting the deep crural arcli, which curves over the vessels, and is inserted into the pubic spine and the ilio- pectineal line behind the conjoined tendon of the transversalis and internal oblique muscles. It includes beneath it, internal to the vessels, a space between Gimbernat’s ligament and the vein, sufficiently large to admit the point of the little finger ; this is called the crural ring, and is the space through which a femoral hernia descends. About mid-way between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and about half an inch above Pouparfc’s ligament, the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, pierces the transversalis fascia. The opening thus made is called the internal or deep abdominal ring (internal inguinal aperture)-, the fascia above and internal to it is thin, but below and external to it is firm and thick, and the lower boundary of the opening is formed by a distinct crescentic edge, over which the cord or round ligament passes : from the margin of the opening a delicate funnel-shaped covering, the infundibuliform fascia, is prolonged downwards on the emerging structures, and this forms in cases of oblique hernia one of the coverings of the tumour. The iliac fascia, stronger than the transversalis fascia, lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and covers the ilio-psoas muscle. The densest portion of its fibres is stretched transversely from the iliac crest, over the iliacus and psoas, to the brim of the pelvis, where it is attached to the iliac portion of the ilio-pectineal line. A thinner part of the membrane is continued upwards on the surface of the psoas, along the inner border of which it is attached to the sacrum, to the inter- vertebral discs and the neighbouring margins of the lumbar vertebrae as well as to the tendinous arcbes over the lumbar vessels (p. 240). Ex- ternally, it joins the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia, and above, itMUSCLES OF TIIE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 334 becomes blended with the internal arched ligament of the diaphragm. Interiorly the iliac fascia is prolonged downwards, covering the con- joined muscle, a short distance into the thigh, being placed behind the femoral artery and vein, and forming the hinder portion of the crural sheath. On the outer side of the vessels, the fascia is closely united as it descends with the lower border of the transversalis fascia and Poupart’s ligament, and it ends by blending with the fascia lata forming the upper part of the sheath of the sartorius. Internally this part of the fascia becomes directly continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata (see p. 232), while from the junction of the two a short but strong inter- muscular septum is sent backwards between the psoas and pectinens muscles to be attached to the ilio-pectineal eminence and the capsule of the hip-joint. In cases where the psoas parvus is present the iliac fascia is thickened above the ilio-pectineal eminence by the incorporation of the tendon of this muscle as it expands to its insertion. At the back part of the abdomen there is also a thin membrane cover- ing the quadratus lumborum muscle and forming the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia. It is attached at the inner border of the quadratus to the front of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, while along the outer border of that muscle it becomes united with the middle layer of the fascia. Superiorly it forms the external arched ligament of the diaphragm already described, and interiorly it is attached to the ilio-lumbar ligament and the crest of the ilium. The middle layer of the lumbar fascia, much stronger than the anterior, and placed between the erector spinse and quadratus lumborum, is formed by the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, in connection with which it has already been described (p. 330). MUSCLES AND FASCIiS OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. Fasciae of the Perineum—Superficial Fascia.—In the posterior half of the perineum the subcutaneous fat is continued deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, the pyramidal space intervening between the obtu- rator fascia and the levator ani muscle. In the anterior half of the perineum, beneath the subcutaneous fat, is placed a special layer of fascia, continuous with the dartos, the proper superficial perineal fascia, sometimes called fascia of Colies. This fascia is bound down on each side to the margin of the rami of the pubis and ischium as far back as the ischial tuberosity; posteriorly, along a line from the ischial tuber- osity to the central point of the perineum, it turns round the posterior margin of the transversus perinei muscle to join the deep perineal fascia, to be presently described. From its deep surface likewise, an incom- plete septum in the middle line passes upwards towards the urethra and is continued forwards into the scrotum. It thus happens that air blown in beneath the proper perineal fascia on one side passes forwards and distends the scrotum to a certain extent on that side ; it may then penetrate to the other side also, and if injected with sufficient force may reach the front of the abdomen, and travel upwards beneath the super- ficial fascia ; but it neither passes backwards to the posterior half of the perineum nor downwards upon the thighs. The same course is followed by urine or matter extravasated beneath the proper perineal fascia.DEEP PERINEAL FASCIA. 33-5 The deep perineal or subpubic fascia, triangular ligament of the urethra, is stretched across the subpubic arch on the deep surface of the crura of the penis and the bulb of the urethra. It consists of two distinct layers of strong fibrous membrane, separated by intervening structures. The inferior or anterior layer, extending backwards in the middle line to the central point of the perineum, is attached on each side to the rami of the pubis and ischium, while posteriorly its base becomes connected with the superior layer, and with the recurved margin of the superficial perineal fascia. Anteriorly it is continued into the angle between the crura of the penis, and at a deeper level a short Fig. 219. Fig. 219.—Frontal section op the pelvis in the situation indicated by the line A, A', IN PIGS. 220, SHOWING THE DISPOSITION OP THE PELVIC FASCIA AND TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT OP TIIE URETHRA ( SE JIIDIAGEAMATIc). (G.D.T.) «, section of the hip-bone passing though the centre of the acetabulum ; b, section of the ramus of the ischium ; c, bladder, from which the urethra is continued downwards ; d, prostate gland ; e, corpus spongiosum urethrae, covered by the bulbo-cavernosi muscles; /, eras penis, covered by the ischio-cavernosus muscle ; 1, obturator membrane ; 2, ob- turator internus muscle; 3, 3, obturator fascia; 4, levator ani muscle ; 5, recto-vesical fascia, dividing into an ascending layer attached to the bladder, and a descending layer forming the sheath of the prostate : between the fascia and the prostate are the veins of the prostatic plexus ; 6, superior, and 7, inferior layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra ; 8, constrictor urethrse muscle, embedded in which, close to the ischium, are the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis. In order to show more clearly the relations of the parts, the urethra is represented as being laid open through the whole of the prostatic and membranous, and the commence- ment of the spongy portions ; whereas the lower half of the prostatic portion is naturally a little behind the plane of the section. but strong fibrous band (transverse ligament of the pelvis, Henle) stretches across the subpubic angle near its apex, bounding with the subpubic ligament an oval aperture, through which the dorsal vein of the penis is transmitted. About an inch from the symphysis this layer is perforated by the urethra, immediately before its entrance into the bulb, and the latter structure is intimately adherent to, and receives a superficial expansion from, the under surface of the membrane. Farther forwards it is also pierced by the pudic artery and the dorsal nerve of the penis on each side. Between the two layers of the deep perineal33G MUSCLES OF THE PEEINEUM AND PELVIS. fascia are placed the membranous portion of the urethra, the con- strictor muscle of the urethra, and Cowper’s glands, together with the pudic arteries and the arteries of the bulb, and the dorsal vein and nerves of the penis. The superior or 'posterior layer consists of right and left lateral halves, which are separated in the middle line by the urethra close to the neck of the prostate, where they are continued into the sheath of that gland derived from the recto-vesical portion of the pelvic fascia, whilst laterally they join on each side the obturator portion of the pelvic fascia close to its attachment to the pubic and ischial rami. This layer of fascia is superficial to the anterior fibres of the levator ani muscle, which lie between it and the recto-vesical fascia, and it is con- nected with a thin web of areolar tissue which extends backwards on the surface of the levator ani muscle, and is distinguished as the anal fascia. In the female the deep perineal fascia is divided in the middle by the vagina. Fasciae of the Pelvis.—The pelvic fascia is a complicated structure lining the muscles within the cavity of the pelvis and supporting the pelvic viscera. It consists of two principal parts, which are known as the obturator fascia and the redo-vesical fascia. The obturator fascia, a distinct piece on each side of the pelvis, may be regarded as the special fascia of the obturator internus muscle, the inner surface of which it covers, and around which it is fixed to the bone. It is attached above for a short distance to the iliac portion of the ilio- pectineal line ; in front, to the body of the pubis along an oblique line extending from the upper and inner part of the thyroid foramen to a little below the symphysis ; behind, to the anterior margin of the great sciatic notch, as well as to the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and below it joins the falciform process of that ligament by means of which it is connected to the ischial and pubic rami. At the upper end of the thyroid foramen its attachment to the bone is interrupted and the fascia joins the upper edge of the obturator membrane, forming an arch over the border of the muscle, and bounding below the short canal by which the obturator vessels and nerve issue. The inner surface of this fascia in its upper part looks into the pelvic cavity and is lined by peritoneum ; in its lower part it looks into the perineal space, forming the outer boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa, and in this part of the fascia the internal pudic vessels and nerve are embedded in a sheath as they course to the front of the perineum. The fascia of the pxjr if or mis is a thin and unimportant layer, which is continued backwards from the obturator fascia to the sacrum, passing in front of the pyriformis muscle and the nerves of the sacral plexus, and being perforated by the branches of the internal iliac vessels which leave the pelvis by the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The recto-vesical fascia is attached anteriorly to the back of the pubis above the obturator fascia, from which it is here separated by the origin of the levator ani, the three being, however, generally closely adherent near the bone ; laterally it springs from the obturator fascia along a curved line passing from the upper part of the obturator foramen to the ischial spine ; and posteriorly it becomes continuous with the lower part of the fascia of the pyriformis. From these attachments the fascia is directed downwards and inwards, in contact with the upper surface of the levator ani muscle, to the prostate gland, to the bladder, and to the rectum, and being farther continuous from side to side across the middlePELVIC FASCIA. 337 line iii front of the bladder and between the bladder and the rectum, it thus forms a fibrous partition which completely separates the pelvic cavity above from the perineal space below. Certain parts of this fascia, generally not very well defined, however, are referred to as ligaments of the viscera with which they are connected. The best marked of these are the anterior true ligaments of the bladder or pubo- prostatic ligaments, a narrow but strong band on each side, consisting in great part of involuntary muscular fibres, and passing from the lower Fig. 220. Fig. 220.—Diagram of a sagittal section of the pelvis, a little to the left of THE MESIAL PLANE, TO SHOW THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE PELVIC FASCIA, &C. (Gr.D.T.) J a, a, section of sacrum anil coccyx ; b, section of pubis ; c, bladder ; d, prostate gland, above which are the vesicula seminalis and vas deferens cut obliquely ; e, corpus spongio- sum urethra, covered by the bulbo-cavernosus muscle ; /, rectum ; ;/, external sphincter; x , levator ani; 1, anterior true ligament of bladder; 2, 2', sheath of prostate, continuous below with the upper layer of the triangular ligament of the urethra ; the hinder part of the sheath is continued upwards between the vesiculse seminales and the rectum; 3, inferior layer of the triangular ligament, between which and the superior layer are seen in section the constrictor urethra muscle and Cowper’s gland ; 4, 4, peritoneum. The thick dotted line indicates the level at which, to the left of the section, the ascending layer of the recto-vesical fascia is attached to the bladder and rectum. The thinner dotted lines A, A', and 13, B', represent the situation of the sections shown in figs. 219 and 221. part of the pubis to the anterior surface of the prostate and the neck of the bladder. Between the two ligaments the fascia is thin and depressed, forming a small pouch which is occupied by some loose fat and areolar tissue. On the outer side of the anterior ligament, the part of the fascia VOL. I. 7,338 MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. which descends to the side of the bladder and prostate is known as the lateral true ligament of the bladder ; and farther back, the part joining the side of the rectum has been called the ligament of the rectum (Ellis). There is also seen on the upper surface of the recto-vesical fascia another thickened band, which springs from the pubis in common with the anterior true ligament of the bladder, and passes backwards and out- wards to the ischial spine, thus strengthening the floor of the pelvic cavity, and assisting materially in the support of the bladder. This is the so-called white line of the pelvic fascia, and in its posterior part it corresponds to the place of origin of the recto-vesical fascia from the obturator fascia. At its connection with the viscera, the recto-vesical fascia has the following arrangement. The anterior part of the fascia meets the side of the bladder along the line of its junction with the prostate, and there Fig. 221. Fig. 221.—Diagram of an oblique section of the pelvis in the situation indicated by the line B, B', in fig. 220. (G.D.T.) § a, section of hip-bone, passing behind the centre of the acetabulum ; b, bladder; c, vesicula seminalis and vas deferens of the right side ; d, rectum ; 1, obturator internus muscle ; 2, 2, obturator fascia, in the lower part of which the pudic vessels and nerve are contained in a sheath ; 3, recto-vesical fascia ; 4, its upper layer attached to the bladder; 5, its lower layer passing across in front of the rectum, and continuous with, 6, the lateral part of the investment of the rectum ; 7, levator ani, the dotted line on its under surface indicates the position of the anal fascia ; 8, external sphincter ; 9, 9, peritoneum. divides into two layers. The upper of these is short and is reflected upwards, soon becoming closely united with the muscular coat of the bladder: the lower is stronger and more extensive, and is continued downwards, forming the sheath of the prostate, which at the apex of that gland is continued into the superior layer of the deep perineal fascia (triangular ligament of the urethra). In the angle between the two layers, and between the sheath and the substance of the prostate, are con- tained the large veins of the prostatic plexus, but these structures are so339 EXTERNAL SPHINCTER MUSCLE. Fig. 222. Fig. 222.—Superficial muscles of closely united by dense connective tissue that the prostatic sheath can only be dissected off the gland with difficulty. Behind and above the prostate, the prolongation of the upper layer is attached to the base of the bladder immediately outside the line of the vesiculte seminales, which are thus excluded, together with the intervening portion of the base of the bladder, from the proper pelvic cavity; while the inferior layer, con- tinuous with the posterior part of the prostatic sheath, extends across between the bladder and rectum, on the one hand binding the vesiculae seminales and vasa deferentia to the base of the bladder, on the other, forming the front part of the sheath of the rectum. The hinder part of the fascia is similarly attached to the rectum, and sends a pro- longation downwards on the lower part of the gut, which becomes gradually thinner and is lost a short distance from the anus. In the female the vagina receives an investment from the recto-vesical fascia, corresponding to the prostatic sheath of the male. In other respects the arrangement of the pelvic fascia is substantially the same in the two sexes. Muscles.—-The muscles of the perineum differ somewhat in the two sexes, and must therefore be separately described in each. In both sexes they may be divided into two groups, according as they are more immediately connected with the lower orifice of the alimentary canal or with the genito-urinary outlet. In both groups superficial and deep muscles are to be distinguished. A.—In the male.—a. ANAL muscles.—The internal or circular sphincter is a thick ring of unstriped muscle continuous with the cir- cular fibres of the rectum, and will be referred to along with the anatomy of that organ. The superficial or external sphincter muscle (sphincter ani ex- THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE (modified from Bourgery). (A.T.) i 4 a, spine of the pubis; b, coccyx ; c, placed on the tuberosity of the ischium, points by a line to the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; x , anus ; 1, placed on the corpus spongiosum urethrae in front of the bulbo-caver- nosi muscles ; 2, central point of the perineum ; 3, ischio-cavemosus; 4, transversus perinei ; 5, levator ani ; from 2 to b, external sphincter of the anus ; surrounding x , is the internal sphincter ; 6, coecygeus ; 7, adductor longus ; 8, gracilis ; 9, adductor magnus ; 10, semitendinosus and biceps; 11, on the left side, the gluteus maximus entire ; 11', the same cut on the right side, so as to expose a part of the coccygeus muscle. ternus) is a layer of fibres nearly an inch in depth on each side, placed immediately beneath the skin surrounding the margin of the anus. It is elliptical in form, and is attached posteriorly by a small tendon to the tip and back of the coccyx, usually receiving also some fibres from the overlying integument. Passing forwards it divides into two partsMUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 340 which enclose the anus and meet again anteriorly, where the superficial fibres end in the skin, some of the innermost ones decussating across the middle line, while the larger part becomes blended with the transverse and the bulbo-cavernosus muscles in the central point of the perineum. Th q central point of the perineum is the mesial part of a small transverse tendinous septum in which several muscles of the perineum meet. It is placed about an inch in front of the anus, and immediately behind the bulb of the urethra in the male, behind the vulval orifice in the female. The tendinous structure is, however, not unfrequently entirely absent, in which case the muscles are directly continuous with one another. The levator ani is a broad fleshy layer which extends from the anterior and lateral parts of the pelvic wall downwards and inwards to the middle line, and forms, together with its fellow of the opposite side, a muscular floor to the greater part of the pelvic cavity. It takes origin from the pelvic surface of the pubis by thin tendinous fibres, placed between and usually intimately adherent to the pubic attachments of the obturator and recto-vesical fascite ; from the pelvic fascia along the line of origin of the recto-vesical fascia*; and to a slight extent from the ischial spine. Some fasciculi are also frequently added to the fore part of the muscle from the upper layer of the deep perineal fascia. The fibres of the hinder and larger portion of the muscle, including all those which are derived from the ischial spine and the pelvic fascia, converge as they descend upon the side of the rectum, and are inserted into the Fig. 223. Fig. 223.—Left half of the male PELVIS, TO SHOW THE LEVATOR ANI AND coccygeus muscles (after Cloquet). \ a, promontory of the sacrum ; b, pubic spine ; c, coccyx ; d, ischial spine ; e, sym- physis pubis ; /, a small portion of the anal part of the rectum ; y, half the prostate gland ; h, half the bulb and a portion of the penis ; 1, part of the obturator intemus muscle, exposed by removing the upper por- tion of the obturator fascia ; 2, coccygeus muscle, and above it the sacro-sciatic liga- ments ; 3, inner surface of the levator ani. lateral margin of the lower part of the coccyx, and into a narrow mesial aponeurosis, common to the muscles of the two sides, between the coccyx and the anus : a smaller part of the muscle, continued from the pubic origin, passes over the side of the prostate, and is inserted into the lower part of the rectum, where it becomes connected with the fibres of the external sphincter and slightly with those of the internal ; and the most anterior fibres, which are directed backwards, nearly parallel to the mesial plane, along the lower part of the prostate, meet between that body and the rectum witl i the corresponding fibres of the muscle of the opposite side, and blend with those of the external sphincter and constrictor urethrae muscles in the central point of the perineum. Relations.—The upper or pelvic surface of the levator aui is in contact with the recto-vesical fascia, which intervenes between the muscle and the rectum and prostate. The 1 ower or perineal surface, invested by the thin anal fascia, is covered byPEEINEAL MUSCLES IN THE MALE. 341 the fat which occupies the ischio-rectal fossa. The posterior border is adjacent to, and often continuous with, the coccygeus. Between the anterior borders of the right and left muscles the membranous part of the urethra passes downwards as it issues from the prostate. The coccygeus or levator coccygis muscle is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres, forming a thin, flat, and triangular sheet, which arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted by its base into the border of the coccyx and the lower part of the sacrum. Relations.—The internal or pelvic surface of this muscle assists in supporting the rectum : its external surface is intimately united to the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The levatores ani and coccygei muscles together have been appropriately named by Meyer the pelvic diaphragm. Varieties.—The coccygeus is sometimes inserted wholly into the side of the sacrum. A few fleshy and tendinous fibres are occasionally seen passing from the lower part of the anterior surface of the sacrum to the coccyx, constituting the sacro-coccygeus anticus or curvator coccygis muscle. b. Gknito-urinary muscles.—These are three muscles on each side, placed immediately beneath the superficial perineal fascia, viz., the transversus perinei, the ischio-cavernosus, and the bulbo-cavernosus, and one single muscle more deeply placed, between the layers of the triangular ligament, viz., the constrictor urethrae. The transversus perinei muscle arises from the inner side of the ischial tuberosity, immediately above (deeper than) the origin of the ischio-cavernosus, and is directed obliquely forwards and inwards to unite with the muscle of the opposite side, as well as with the external sphincter and bulbo-cavernosus, at the central point of the perineum. Behind this muscle the superficial perineal fascia turns upwards to join the base of the triangular ligament. Varieties.—The transverse muscle is exceedingly variable in its arrangement. It is sometimes absent, and at other times one or more small muscular slips are found lying on the same plane with it, in front or behind. It may also be in- serted wholly or in great part into the bulbo-cavernosus or external sphincter. As a rare occurrence a muscular slip has been seen springing from the fascia at the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and inserted into the triangular liga- ment on its lower surface (Henle), or on its upper surface (G. D. T.). The ischio-cavernosus or erector penis muscle, embracing the crus penis, arises from the inner part of the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium behind and on each side of the attachment of the crus. From this origin the fleshy fibres are directed forwards to a tendinous ex- pansion which is spread over the surface of the crus, and is inserted into the outer and under sides of that body towards its fore part. Variety.—Houston has described (“ Dublin IIosp. Reports,” v., 458), under the name of compressor venal dorsalis penis, a muscular slip separated from the outer part of the erector penis by an interval, though apparently belonging to that muscle. It arises from the pubic ramus, in front of the origin of the erector muscle and the crus of the penis, and, passing upwards and forwards, is inserted by joining its fellow in a median aponeurosis above the dorsal vein. This muscle, which is well developed in the dog and several other animals, is by no means constant in the human subject. The bulbo-cavernosus or ejaculator urinse muscle is united with its fellow of the opposite side in a median tendinous raphe, continuedMUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. 342 forwards from the central point of the perineum, and the two muscles cover the bulb and the adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum urethrae. The fleshy fibres arise from the central point of the perineum and from the median raphe, and are directed outwards and forwards on the surface of the corpus spongiosum. The greater number ascend between the crus penis and the corpus spongiosum, and end on the dorsum of the latter body by joining those of the opposite side in a strong aponeurosis. At the fore part a small portion of the muscle passes to the outer side of the corpus cavernosum, where it is attached in front of the ischio- cavernosus, sending also a tendinous expansion over the dorsal vessels of the penis (Kobelt); and the posterior fibres, shorter than the anterior, are inserted by side of the bulb into the under surface of the triangular ligament. Tlie fibres which invest the most prominent part of the bulb are more or less distinct from those contiguous to them, and have been described by Kobelt as forming a separate muscle, to which he has given the name compressor Jiemis- phccrium hdbi. The fibres of this muscular slip are connected by a small tendon, above the urethra, with the corresponding part of the opposite side. The constrictor or compressor urethrae muscle consists of fibres attached on each side to the ischio-pubic rami, as well as to the adjacent surfaces of the fascial layers between which it is enclosed, and ex- tending for the most part transversely across the subpubic arch, some of them in front of, and others behind, the membranous part of the urethra, for which they form a kind of sphincter. In some bodies a median tendinous raphe divides the muscle more or less completely into lateral halves. The hindmost fibres of this muscle are sometimes described separately under the name of transversus perinei profundus. While the greater number of the muscular fibres contained between the layers of the triangular ligament pass transversely from side to side as above stated, there are usually to be recognized, especially in well-developed subjects, other collections which take different directions. Thus, one set of fibres passes obliquely from behind forwards and inwards ; another set surrounds the urethra circularly; and on the inferior surface of the constrictor muscle a longitudinal slip of variable breadth extends from apex to base of the triangular ligament. All these bundles are, however, intimately connected together, and pass gradually into one another, so that they cannot properly be regarded as forming distinct muscles. The longitudinal fasciculi described by James Wilson (Med. Chir. Trans, i., 170), as passing from the pelvic surface of the pubis on each side, and meeting behind the membranous part of the urethra, have not been generally recognized by succeeding anatomists. (On the arrangement of the constrictor urethrae muscle, as well as of the other muscles and fasciae of the perineum, consult Henle, Eingeweidelehre,” and M. Holl, Arcliiv f. Anatomie, 1881, 225). Relations.—The constrictor urethrae is separated from the levator ani by the upper layer, and from the superficial muscles of the fore part of the perineum by the lower layer of the triangular ligament. Embedded in the substance of the muscle on each side at its origin from the bone are the pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis, and more mesially are the vessels of the bulb and the gland of Cowper. Within the constrictor muscle the membranous part of the urethra is surrounded by involuntary muscular fibres which form part of its proper wall, and will therefore be referred to in the description of the repro- ductive organs in Vol. II. Nerves. — The external sphincter receives offsets from the fourth sacral nerve and the inferior hannorrhoidal branch of the pudic nerve ; the levator ani343 PERINEAL MUSCLES IN THE FEMALE. Fig. 224.—Muscles op the perineum in Fig. 224. from the fourth sacral and the perineal branch of the pudic ; and the coccy- geus from the fourth sacral nerve. The superficial genito-urinary muscles are supplied by the perineal branch of the pudic nerve, and the constrictor urethrae by the dorsal nerve of the penis. Actions.—The sphincters of the anus cause by their contraction occlusion of that aperture. The contraction of the external is usually maintained involun- tarily, though it may be rendered firmer by an act of the will ; that of the in- ternal is wholly involuntary. The levator ani and coccygcus act principally in supporting and to a slight ex- tent raising the floor of the pelvis. They thus come into play with the muscles of the abdominal wall in forcible expiratory and other expulsive efforts. The levator ani can also compress the lower part of the rectum, and in this way it assists directly in the evacuation of the bowel. The transversi acting together draw backwards and fix the central point of the perineum, thus assisting to give a base of support to the ejaculator muscles. The ischio-cavernosus serves to compress the crus penis and thus assists in pro- ducing or at least in maintaining the erection of the penis. The bulbo-cavernosi compress the bulb and the adjoining part of the corpus spongiosum, so as to eject forcibly any fluid lodged in the urethra. They come into action at the end of the process of micturition, when their contraction is mainly a voluntary act, and in the emission of the semen, when it is involun- tary. The constrictor urethra: diminishes the calibre of the urethra and expels its contents; it contracts at the end of micturition, so as to assist the bulbo- cavernosi in clearing the canal. According to Henle the constrictor takes also an important share in producing the erection of the penis, by compressing the veins of the corpora cavernosa, which are contained between its fibres. B.—In the female.—In this sex the anterior fibres of the levator ani embrace the vagina as they do the prostate in the male. The transversus perinei and the external sphincter are arranged essentially in the same manner as in the male. The erector clitoridis (ischio-cavernosus) differs from the erector penis of the male by its smaller size alone. The sphincter vaginse (bulbo-cavernosus) is attached behind to the a, clitoris ; b, crus clitoridis; c, is placed in the vestibule above the orifice of the urethra ; d, vagina ; x , anus ; e, coccyx ; 1, externai sphincter of the anus; 2, sphincter vaginfe ; 2', some of its fibres prolonged to the clitoris ; 3, levator ani ; 4, on the left ischial tuberosity, points to the transversus perinei (the inner portion of this muscle is represented too far forwards in the figure) ; 5, 6, ischio-cavernosus ; 7, gracilis ; 8, adductor magnus, semitendino- sus, Ac. ; 9, gluteus maximus. central point of the perineum, in common with the external sphincter and transversus perinei muscles ; its fibres open out to surround the vaginal orifice and vestibule, closely embracing on the outer side the two bulbs of the vestibule ; again approaching each other in front, they become narrow, and are inserted mainly upon the corpora cavernosa of the clitoris, a fasciculus crossing THE FEMALE. (A. T.) £MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 344 over these and including the dorsal vein ; some of the inner fibres end in the mucous membrane of the vestibule in front of the urethral orifice. The two halves of this elliptical muscle appear to correspond strictly to the bulbo-cavernosi muscles in the male. The constrictor urethrae, or transversus perinei profundus, differs from the corresponding muscle of the male in being, like the deep perineal fascia between the layers of which it is contained, almost completely divided into lateral halves by the vagina. The fibres spring on each side from the margin of the ischio-pubic rami ; those of the fore part of the muscle are directed transversely across the subpubic arch in front of the urethra ; while those of the hinder and larger part pass inwards, some transversely, others obliquely, and blend with the wall of the vagina. The muscular substance consists in great measure of un- striped fibres (Henle). MORPHOLOGY OP THE FASCL2E AND MUSCLES OP THE TRUNK AND HEAD. Fasciae.—There is a general correspondence in the relation of the deep fascia to the skeleton and masses of the trunk muscles throughout vertebrate animals. In its simplest and lowest form the general investing fascia is prolonged from the surface towards the skeleton in four places, viz., two median, forming what have been called respectively the neural and Inemal septa, and two lateral, one on each side, running towards the transverse processes of the vertebrae. The layers of the haemal septum are in close contact in the caudal region, but they are separated and somewhat complicated in the rest of the trunk by the interposition of the visceral cavity between them. In man and the higher animals the dorsal part of the general investing fascia is represented by the tendinous attachments of the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, and serrati postici muscles, and by the vertebral aponeurosis and deep temporal fascia, while the deep fascia of the side and front of the trunk, neck, and head, and the aponeurotic sheaths of the limbs correspond with its ventral portion. The neural septum remains as the ligamentum nuclise and the supraspinous and interspinous ligaments. The haemal' septum partly constitutes the linea alba, and is elsewhere separated into two as an investment of the visceral cavity, forming the transversalis, iliac and pelvic fascice. The lateral septum, which is strongly developed in fishes and amphibia, is only seen at all clearly in the middle layer of the lumbar fascia of man and the higher animals, being in them situated much nearer the dorsal than the ventral aspect of the body. This difference of position is coincident with the greater development of the ventro-lateral muscles and the limbs in the higher than in the lower vertebrates. Muscles.—It has already been stated (p. 188) that the muscles of the trunk fall into two primary sets, separated by the embryonic vertebral axis, and known as the epaxial and hypaxial muscles ; and that the former are again subdivided into a dorsal and a ventral group, which are partly separated from each other by the above-mentioned lateral septum, and which correspond to the dorso-lateral and ventro-lateral divisions of the great lateral muscle of fishes and tailed amphibia. The liypaxial muscles (subvertebral, Gegenbaur), in man but little developed, are placed on the ventral aspect of the vertebral column, and in some paits spread round the internal surface of the walls of the visceral cavity, and even extend across that cavity, giving rise to the various diaphragms. They include the rectus anticus major and longus colli in the neck ; the postcardiac diaphragm or midriff in the dorso-lumbar region ; and more postaxially the psoas and pyriformis, extending outwards to the lower limbs, and the pelvic diaphragm or levator ani; while the occasionally present curvator coccygis represents the pro- longation of these muscles on the ventral surface of the caudal vertebrae of some of the lower animals. It is proper to state, however, that the morphology of the muscles here termed hypaxial is by no means certain, inasmuch as their mode of345 MORPHOLOGY OF THE TRUNK-MUSCLES. development lias not yet been worked out, and they are regarded by many anatomists (Humphry and Balfour among others) as being merely separated portions of the ventro-lateral muscle. The dorso-lateral muscle consists of fibres which more than any others retain their original segmented character and longitudinal direction. It is represented in man by the mass of muscles which lies in the vertebral groove of the back, and which, arising from the lower vertebrae, splits as it passes upwards to be inserted into other vertebrae, the ribs and the skull. It may be divided into three sets of muscles, characterized by the different directions of their fibres. The first set consists of those which run for the most part in a longitudinal direction, as from spine to spine, in spinalis and interspinales ; from transverse process to transverse process in longissimus dorsi and intertransversales ; or from rib to rib in ilio-costalis. The second set consists of muscular fibres directed more or less obliquely upwards and outwards from spines to transverse processes, as in splenius capitis and colli, rectus posticus major and obliquus inferior. The third set is also oblique, but its fibres are directed upwards and inwards from transverse pro- cesses to spines, as in complexus, semispinalis, multifidus, and obliquus superior ; and from transverse processes to 1 ami me. as in rotatores dorsi. In the postaxial part of the trunk in tailed animals this dorsal series of muscles is continued backwards without interruption as the superior caudal muscles, and in man a muscular slip is occasionally found developed as an extensor coccygis ; but in general, owing to the very slight development of the caudal vertebrae and the large size of the pelvic girdle, the dorso-lateral muscles do not in man extend beyond the upper part of the sacrum. Preaxially this muscle is prolonged to the side of the head, where it forms the group of temporal, pterygoids, masseter, and probably the orbital muscles. The connection between these muscles and the dorsal muscles is well seen in the tailed amphibia, where the fibres of the dorsal muscle are directly continuous with those of the temporal. In man this continuity is interrupted in consequence of the great expansion of the cranium, a considerable portion of which is exposed between the temporal and the neck muscles. The ventro-lateral muscle, while equally simple in the lowest vertebrates with the dorso-lateral, shows in the higher animals a much greater degree of com- plexity, both of form and attachments. It springs from the ventral surfaces and tips of the transverse processes of the vertebral, as well as from the lateral septa and general fascial investment; and by means of its connection with the last- mentioned structure the superficial portion of the muscle is prolonged dorsally, and gains an attachment to the spinous processes, so that it covers the dorso- lateral muscle almost completely. Ventrally, it extends round the visceral cavity to the median line, where it is separated from the corresponding mass of the opposite side by the haemal septum, and it thus forms the whole thickness of the muscular portion of the body-wall. It comes into connection with the orifices only of the alimentary canal, where portions of the right and left muscles become united and form the external sphincters. It is farther characterized by the dis- position which certain of its sclerotomes show to become the seat of ossification in the hyoid bone, ribs and limb-girdles. According to the direction of its fibres the trunk portion of this muscular mass may be divided into two groups of muscles, a mesial with longitudinally directed fibres and a lateral with more or less obliquely directed fibres. The mesial group is represented in man by the rectus abdominis, supracostalis (an occasional muscle), the stemo-mastoid, stemo-hyoid, sterno-thyro-hyoid and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, genio- hyoid and genio-glossus ; and it repeats more closely the simple segmented con- dition of the dorsal muscle than is the case with the lateral fibres. In fishes the oblique fibres are almost entirely wanting, and in the lower vertebrates generally they are less developed than the longitudinal. On the other hand, in the higher forms, as in man, the oblique fibres are the more important, the longitudinal fibres being in certain places (thorax) absent altogether, or only occasionally present as supracostalis. In some animals, as Lepidosiren, the oblique fibres of the abdomen are directly continuous with the longitudinal, but in man greater differentiation exists, for the lateral muscles are merely prolonged forwards as strong aponeurosesMORPHOLOGY OF THE TRUNK-MUSCLES. 34C which, form a fibrous sheath for the rectus on each side of the middle line. In man these longitudinal fibres have little or no connection with the muscles of the limbs, but in urodelans they are continued outwards upon the ventral aspect of each limb as part of the pectoralis major and gracilis. Longitudinal fibres are also found in the pyramidalis, a small rudimentary muscle in man, but which in marsupials and monotremes is extremely large ; and as a rare variety between the lateral oblique muscles forming a lateral rectus, which consists of a few fibres running between the lower ribs and the ilium. Posteriorly again the longitudinal direction is maintained by certain fibres of the quadratus lumborum. The lateral group of trunk muscles, distinguished by the oblique direction of then- fibres, is divisable usually into three or it may be into four layers. In the lowest vertebrates this stratification does not occur, but in the higher animals it is coincident with the differentiation of separate muscles. Of these layers three are very constant in their relations and extent, but the fourth, which is the most superficial, though very constantly found, is on the whole only a partial layer. In man these layers are represented, the first three by the abdominal muscles, the external and internal oblique and transversalis respectively, and the fourth by the platysma myoides, the facial, auricular and epicranial muscles. The transverse or deepest of these layers is represented by the transversalis muscle, which is prolonged into the thorax by the triangularis sterni ; and the subcostals, small in man, but very largely developed in birds, serpents, &c., as the retrahentes costarum and levatores costarum interni, must also be referred to this laj^er. The internal oblique is directly continuous with the lower internal intercostals, and the external intercostals and levatores costarum are probably also differen- tiated portions of the same layer. In series with these are the scaleni and anterior intertransverse muscles in the neck, and the quadratus lumborum and lateral intertransverse muscles in the loins. Interiorly, the middle layer furnishes the coccygeus (ischio-caudal), the constrictor urethra, ischio- and bulbo-cavernosus, and transversus perinei. Laterally, it gives the costo-scapular muscles (serratus magnus with the levator scapulas) and the costo-coracoid (subclavius) to the shoulder-girdle; and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid forms a connection between this layer of the lateral oblique fibres and the mesial longitudinal fibres. Superiorly, the hyo-glossus, the constrictors of the pharynx, the styloid muscles with the posterior belly of the digastric, and the faucial and palatal muscles are probably also derived from this layer (Humphry). The external oblique layer is prolonged upwards upon the side of the chest, and outwards upon the upper limb as pectorales and latissimus dorsi, and between the limb and head as cleido-mastoid and trapezius. The rhomboids and serrati postici appear to be segmented deeper portions of this layer, and its most pre- axial derivative is the mylo-hyoid. The fourth layer, corresponding to the panniculus carnosus of animals, seems to be mainly developed from the cutaneous surface of the last or external oblique layer; or it may be an independent layer developed in close connection with the skin (exoskeleton) and fascial investment. In man this layer extends only upon the surface of the head and neck, and very slightly over the shoulder. It forms the subcutaneus colli or platysma myoides, and those slight continuations down- wards which are found upon the surface of the pectoral and deltoid muscles, as well as the occasional sternalis muscle. On the surface of the head this forms the epicranial muscles, with the intervening aponeurosis, the auricular and the facial muscles. All these muscles are attached to bone usually by one end only, the other being attached to the skin or to the cartilage of some moveable structure, but in some cases they may reach the deeper structures by both ends. Portions of this layer in animals may blend with or even take the place of parts of the subjacent muscles, or they may be enormously developed as compared with other layers, or lastly, the whole layer may be aborted. (See, in addition to the works quoted at p. 188, Gegenbaur, “Elements of Comparative Anatomy,” Eng. Transl. 1878, and Balfour, “ Comparative Embryology,” vol. ii., 1881.)ANGEIOLOGY The vascular system, as a whole, comprehends two sets of vessels, viz., those carrying blood and those carrying lymph or chyle. The first, constituting the sanguiferous system, includes the heart or central pro- pelling organ and the peripheral channels for the blood, viz., the arteries, capillaries and veins. The absorbent system includes the lymphatic and lacteal vessels, together with the lymphatic and mesenteric glands with which many of these vessels are connected. The descriptive anatomy of the heart is given with that of the thoracic viscera in the second volume : the account of the minute structure of the blood-vessels and of the lymphatic vessels and glands will be found in the part of the same volume which treats of General Anatomy. Under the present division, therefore, will be brought only the descriptive anatomy of the principal blood-vessels and absorbent vessels. 1.—BLOOD-VESSELS. ARTERIES AND VEINS. The descriptive anatomy of the blood-vessels includes an account of their origin, extent, form, position, mode of division, distribution, anas- tomosis with each other, and relations to other parts. Seeing, however, that the blood-vessels are subject to frec|uent variations, while the most constant forms and modes of distribution are described as the normal, it will be necessary also to make frequent reference to the more important varieties which have been observed among them. The varieties of blood-vessels may consist of a deviation either from the usual size of the channels or from their usual position and their connection with other vessels. In the latter case they may be described as consisting in differences of origin from the main stem, or from a branch, or from quite another source than that which is the most common or usual. But some varieties are so common that it becomes doubtful which form is to be described as normal. Many of these varieties are not only compatible with life, but cause no disturbance whatever in the performance of the ordinary functions of the body. Others are of such a nature as to be compatible only with the conditions of the circulation subsisting during intrauterine life, and therefore prove fatal at birth. Some are of considerable interest from their frequency, and others from their existing in situations which are liable to diseases requiring surgical operations for their cure. Many vascular varieties repeat forms which are natural in different species among the lower animals ; others are obviously due to the per- sistence of early foetal forms of distribution ; and not a few are expli-THE BLOOD-VESSELS. 318349 THE BLOOD-VESSELS. Fig. 225.—General view of the heart and blood-vessels of the trunk, from BEFORE IN A MALE ADULT. (A. T.) £ A, Right auricle ; B, left auricular appendix ; C, right ventricle ; D, part of the left ventricle ; I, I, aortic arch, and descending thoracic aorta ; II, trunk of the pulmonary artery dividing into its right and left branches, and connected to the aorta by the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; III, superior vena cava ; IV, IV, inferior vena cava. 1, innominate artery and right carotid; 1', left carotid ; 2, 2, right and left subclavian arteries; 3, intercostal vessels; 4, inferior diaphragmatic arteries ; below 4, the cceliac axis and superior mesenteric artery; 5, renal arteries ; 6, 6', the spermatic arteries ; below 6, the inferior mesenteric; 7, 7', right and left common iliac arteries ; 8, 8', ex- ternal iliac arteries ; 9, left epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries ; 10, 10', internal iliac arteries ; and between these two figures, the middle sacral artery ; 11, 11, femoral arteries ; 12, deep femoral arteiy of the left side. o, right innominate vein ; a , the left; b, V, right and left subclavian veins; b", the cephalic vein of the right arm ; c, c', internal jugular veins; c", right facial vein ; d, d, external jugular veins formed by the posterior auricular and part of the temporo-maxillary; d', anterior jugular veins with the transverse branch joining them ; e, azygos vein passing over the root of the right lung ; /, hepatic veins ; g, renal veins ; to the sides are seen the kidneys and the suprarenal bodies ; g’, right, g", left ureter; h, h', spermatic veins ; i, i, common iliac veins ; i', i', external iliac veins ; Ic, lc, femoral veins; l, internal saphenous vein of the right side. cable on the supposition of abnormal enlargement or diminution of naturally existing vessels. For fuller information on the natural and abnormal distribution of the blood-vessels, the reader may consult the works of Haller and Tiedemann, and more especially the “Anatomy of the Arteries,” by Richard Quain, 1844 ; Henle’s “Handbuch,” vol. iii., part 1, 2nd Ed., 1876, in which a connected view of the varieties by W. Krause is given ; and other special treatises. The dimensions of the arteries and the thickness of their coats have been studied by C. Krause (“ Handbuch,” 3rd Ed. by TV. Krause, vol ii., 1879), Kolliker (Mikroskop. Anat. ii., 512), Gimbert (Journ. de l’anat., 1865, 536), Beneke (Schriften der Marburger Gesellsch. z. Befbrd. d. ges. Naturwiss. xi., 1880), and Valeric Schiele-Wiegandt (Virchow’s Archiv, 1880, Ixxxii., 27) ; and the observations of the two last-named authors agree in indicating that, in addition to individual and sexual differences, both the calibre of the large arteries and the thickness of their walls increase gradually with advancing years. The primary branches of the aortic trunk, and their secondary and tertiary ramifica- tions are divided by Hcnle, according to their average calibre (after injection), into six groups or orders, as shown in the annexed table ; and this classification will be adopted in the following descriptions, the order to which each principal artery belongs being indicated by Roman figures within a parenthesis after its name. The average diameter of the pulmonary artery and of the several parts of the aorta will be directly stated in millimeters, as will also that of the innominate, sub- clavian, common iliac and external iliac trunks, which are considerably larger than the arteries of the first order, but differ too widely in size from one another to be included in one group. ORDER. AVERAGE CALIBRE. EXAMPLE. I. 8 mm. (4 inch) Common carotid. II. 6 mm. (:j- inch) Brachial. III. 5 mm. (| inch) Ulnar. IV. 3‘5 mm. Q inch) 2 mm. (V inch) Lingual. V. Posterior auricular. VI. 1 to -5 mm. (V to i inch) Supraorbital.PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. 350 The sanguiferous system consists of two great divisions, comprehended in the lesser or pulmonic and the greater or systemic circulations. To the former belong the pulmonary artery and veins, which will be first described. PULMONARY ARTERY AND VEINS. PULMONARY ARTERY. The main pulmonary artery is a short wide vessel (diameter 30 mm., Henle), which carries the dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises from the infundibulum of the right ventricle, and passes for the space of nearly two inches upwards, and at the same time backwards, to reach the concavity of the aortic arch, where it divides into two branches—the right and left pulmonary arteries. The mode of attachment of the main pulmonary artery to the base of the ventricle is noticed in the description of the heart. At each side of its commence- ment is the corresponding coronary artery springing from the aorta, and close to its sides are the two auricular appendages. It is at first in front of the aorta and conceals the origin of that vessel; but higher up, where it lies in front of the left auricle, it passes to the left side of the ascend- ing aorta, and is finally placed below the transverse part of the arch. The pulmonary artery and the aorta are united together by connective tissue and by the serous layer of the pericardium, which for the space of about an inch and a half forms a single tube surrounding both vessels. Rather to the left of its point of bifurcation it is connected to the under side of the aortic arch by means of a short fibrous cord, which passes obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the left. This is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a large vessel peculiar to the foetus. The right pulmonary artery (21 mm.), longer and somewhat larger than the left, runs almost transversely to the right behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava into the root of the right lung, where it divides into two primary branches, the upper of which is distributed to the upper lobe of the lung, the lower to the middle and lower lobes. The left pulmonary artery (19 mm.), shorter than the right, passes horizontally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus into the root of the left lung, also dividing into two branches for the upper and lower lobes of the left lung. In the root of the lung, the right and left pulmonary arteries both lie in front of the bronchus and behind the veins. On the right side the bronchus is highest and the veins lowest, while on the left side the bronchus sinks to a level between the artery and veins. The varieties of the pulmonary artery will be referred to along with those of the aorta. RULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins are four short,, trunks which convey the red blood from the lungs to the left side of the heart, and which are found, two on each side, in the root of the corresponding lung. The two veins of the right side pass below the right pulmonary artery, and behind the superior vena cava and the right auricle, to enter the left auricle ; the upper vein receives one or more branches from the middle351 THE AORTA. lobe of the right lung. The two left pulmonary veins pass in front of the descending aorta to reach the auricle. The distribution of the Varieties.—The two veins of one side, more often the left, may unite into a common trunk before entering the auricle. There is frequently a third smaller vein on the right side, coming from the middle lobe of the lung. Other supernumerary veins are of rare occurrence. The upper pulmonary vein of the right side has been seen opening into the superior vena cava (Meckel, Gegenbaur, Bardeleben) ; that of the left side into the left innominate vein (Bachhammer). Fig. 226,—The heart and great VESSELS, FROM BEHIND. (R. Quain.) I 1, Right, 2, left ventricle ; 3, right pulmonary artery near the division of the main trunk ; 3', branches of the right pulmonary artery in the root of the right lung; 3", the same of the left; 4'. arch of the aorta ; 4", descending thoracic aorta; 5, right auricle; 6, is placed on the division between the right and left auricles ; 7, superior vena cava, being joined by the large azygos vein ; 7', left innominate vein ; 8, inferior vena cava ; 9, one of the hepatic veins ; 10, upper, 11, middle (addi- tional), and 12, lower right pul- monary vein ; 13, upper, and 14, lower left pulmonary vein ; +, +, branches of coronary arteries. pulmonary capillaries is ex- clusively to the membrane lining the air-cells of the lungs. Fig. 226, SYSTEMIC ARTERIES. THE AORTA. The aorta, the main trunk of the systemic arteries, is at its com- mencement generally a little smaller than the pulmonary artery, hut in old persons it becomes rather larger than that vessel (Schiele-Wiegandt, loc. cit.). Springing from the left ventricle of the heart, it arches over the root of the left lung, descends along the vertebral column, and, after passing through the diaphragm into the abdominal cavity, ends opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. In this course the aorta forms a continuous single trunk, which gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its termi- nation (from 28 to 17 mm.), and gives off larger or smaller branches at various points. Different parts of the vessel have received particular names, derived from their position or direction. The short curved part, which reaches from the ventricle of the heart to the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra, is named thearch; the straight part, which extends from that vertebra to the diaphragm, is the descending thoracic aorta; and the remainder of the vessel, down to its bifurcation, is the abdominal aorta.352 ARCH OF THE AORTA. ARCH OF THE AORTA. The arch of the aorta commences at the upper part of the base of the left ventricle of the heart, behind the pulmonary artery. At first it passes upwards and to the right side, somewhat in the direction of the heart itself, and crosses obliquely be- hind the sternum, approaching at the same time nearer to that bone. Having gained the level of the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, the vessel alters its course, Fig. 227. Fig. 227.—The aorta, A, FROM BEFORE, B, FROM BEHIND, WITH THE ORIGINS OF ITS PRINCIPAL BRANCHES. (R. Quain.) j 1, the aorta at the place where it has been separated from the left ventricle, showing the semilunar valves in a closed condition, the sinuses of Valsalva, and the origin of the right and left coronary arte- ries ; 2, ascending part of the arch, with the dilatation termed the great sinus; 3, third part of the arch ; 4, innomi- nate artery; 5, left caro- tid ; 6, left subclavian; 7, 7, 7, indicate three out of the series of intercostal and lumbar arteries: the bronchial and oesophageal arteries are also seen rising from the front of the descending thoracic aorta ; 8, 8, right and left renal arteries ; 9, 9, right and left common iliac arteries; 10, middle sacral artery; 11, one of the inferior diaphrag- matic arteries ; +, the coeliac axis; 12, the gastric artery ; 13, the hepatic; 14, the splenic; 15, superior mesenteric; 16, inferior mesenteric; 17, 17, right and left spermatic arteries.ARCH OF THE AORTA. 353 and is directed upwards, backwards, and to the left, then directly backwards, forming a well-marked curve round tbe trachea, to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. Arrived at that point, it bends down- wards, and at the lower border of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, on its left side, the arch terminates in the descending thoracic aorta. Near the base of the heart the aorta is enlarged, and presents externally three small bulging® of nearly equal size, corresponding with the dilatations which form the sinuses of Valsalva or sinuses of the aortic valves, described with the heart. These sinuses are placed, one in front and two behind, and from the anterior and left posterior are given off the two coronary arteries of the heart. From the difference in the direction and connections of its several portions the arch is described as consisting of an ascending, a transverse, and a descending portion. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta (28 mm., Henle) is placed at its commencement behind the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage of the left side ; and it rises as high as the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its length is about two inches or two inches and a quarter ; and its direction is curved. In most cases there exists along the right side a dilatation, named the great sinus of the aorta. This dilatation varies in size in different bodies, and occasionally is not to be detected. This portion of the aortic arch is for the greater part of its length enclosed in the same sheath of pericardium with the pulmonary artery in such a manner that both vessels are covered by the serous mem- brane, except where they are in contact with each other. At its commencement the ascending part of the arch is in contact anteriorly with the pulmonary artery, and with the right auricular appendage; but farther up, as the aorta passes forwards and to the right side and the pulmonary artery backwards on the left, the aorta comes into view. It then approaches very near to the sternum, from which it is separated by the pericardium, by the right pleura, and to a variable extent by the thin anterior margin of the right lung ; the descending vena cava lies on the right side, and the pulmonary artery passes back- wards on the left ; while behind are placed the left auricle of the heart and the right pulmonary artery. The second or transverse part of the arch is covered, slightly on the right side, to a much greater extent on the left, by the pleura and lung, and is placed immediately in front and to the left of the trachea, the oesophagus, and the thoracic duct. The upper border of the transverse part of the arch has in contact with it the left innominate vein ; and from it are given off the large arteries (innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian), which are furnished to the head and the upper limbs. The lower or concave border overhangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is connected with the left branch of that artery by the re- mains of the ductus arteriosus. This part of the arch is crossed in front by the left pneumo-gastric, phrenic and superficial cardiac nerves, as well as by the left superior intercostal vein ; and the recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric turns upwards beneath and behind it. The descending portion of the arch (28 mm.) rests against the left side of the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, and is covered by the left pleura and lung. To the right side of this part of the arch is the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. VOL. i. A A354 ARCH OF THE AORTA. ft, the hyoid bone ; b, b, placed on the anterior scalene muscles, point to the upper part of the pneu- mo-gastric nerves; c, the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and lower down the same letter is on the left bronchus ; c', one of the divisions of the right bronchus emerging from behind the aorta ; in the hollow of the aortic arch, above 5, are seen the cord of the ductus arteri- osus cut short, and the left recurrent nerve passing below the arch; +, is placed on the right side between the recurrent nerve and the vertebral artery as they pass upwards; d, the oeso- phagus ; e, e', upon the right crus of the diaphragm, mark the receptaculum chyli of the thoracic duct, and its commencement by the lum- bar plexus of lymphatic vessels and efferent mesen- teric lacteal vessels; /, /, /, on the third, seventh, and eleventh ribs, point to the vena azygos and intercostal veins of the right side; g, kidney ; g', suprarenal body ; h, body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. /, ascending part of the arch of the aorta : below this the semilunar valves are seen closed and dis- tended by injection ; de- scendingpartof thearch; 1", descending thoracic aorta ; 11, abdominal aorta. Branches of the arch and descending thoracic aorta : 1, right and left coronary arteries ; 2, innominate ; 3, left common carotid; 4, left subclavian ; 5, bronchial arteries ; 6, 6, oesophageal arteries ; the lower figure points by a line to the thoracic duct; 7, intercostal arteries, marked in the sixth and seventh intercostal spaces. Branches of the abdominal aorta: 8, inferior diaphragmatic arteries cut short; 9, coeliac axis with the gastric, splenic, and hepatic arteries cut short; 10, placed cn the. aorta below the superior mesenteric artery (cut short) and the origin of the renal arteries ; a little below this the origin of the spermatic arteries ; below 11, the inferior mesenteric Fig. 228. Fig. 228.—View of the THORACIC AND GREATER PART OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, SHOWING THEIR PRINCIPAL RELATIONS. (A.T.). } artery, 11, 11, two of the lumbar arteries.355 VARIETIES OF THE AORTIC ARCII. Branches.—The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are five in number. Two of these, named the coronary arteries of the heart, comparatively small, arise from two of the sinuses of Valsalva, and are distributed to the walls of the heart. The other three are large primitive trunks, which supply the head and neck, the' upper limbs, and, in part, the thorax, and usually arise from the transverse part of the arch, in the following order :—first, the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery ; second, the left common carotid ; and third, the left subclavian artery. The origin of the left carotid artery is usually nearer to the inno- minate artery than it is to the subclavian artery of its own side. Varieties.—It will be proper in this place to refer to the varieties which affect the whole aorta, as well as to those of the pulmonary arteries. The former may be distinguished, according as they occur in the whole length of the vessel, or belong to one or other of its parts, those which are very frequent in the arch being especially deserving of notice. These last are of peculiar interest, but as the full explanation of their mode of formation is connected with the history of fcetal development, the reader is referred to the chapter on that subject for farther elucidation of the outline of the nature of the varieties which is intro- duced in this place. 1. The aorta may vary in its position and extent. Thus, the height to which the arch rises in the upper part of the chest is found to be subject to variation to the extent of one or two vertebras; so that while in some instances the summit of the arch has been on a level with the top of the sternum, in other cases it it has been as low as the fifth dorsal vertebra. The distance to which the aorta extends downwards depends on the seat of its division into the common iliac trunks, which frequently varies to the extent of a lumbar vertebra, so that the place of division may be as low down as the fifth or as high up as the third. In rare cases the division occurs still higher. The position of the aorta with reference to the middle line or vertebral column is also subject to some variation, but such deviation to the side is more frequently the result of pathological changes than of congenital malformation. A very remarkable malformation of the aorta consists in the greater or less division of the vessel through a part or the whole of its channel into two closely united tubes, by a median septum running through the cylindrical tube from before backwards, or slanting from side to side, as in the cases observed by Cruveilhier, Vrolik, Schroder Van der Kolk, and Allen Thomson, which, when not due to pathological changes, may admit of explanation on the supposition of the fusion of the original double embryonic aorta having remained incomplete. 2. The Varieties of the Stems, or main trunks of the aorta and pulmonary artery, are intimately connected and usually associated with malformations of the heart, and frequently with the persistence of the ductus arteriosus. These first parts of the two great arteries, specially enclosed by the pericardium, are derived from the arterial bulb of the fcetal heart, and are liable to variations which may be traced to deviations from the natural mode of their septal division, and of their union with the left or right ventricles of the heart respectively. Thus, these two arterial trunks may be transposed, or each one may be connected with the ventricle to which it does not naturally belong, i.e., the pulmonary artery with the left, and the aorta with the right ventricle. Or the arterial trunks may communicate together more or less freely by deficiency of the septum between them. Or one of the vessels may be nearly or entirely obliterated ; while the other, from unnatural openings left between them, serves as the channel for the stream of blood belonging to both vessels. Or the aorta and pulmonary arteries may be entirely united in one simple stem in connection with a simple heart similar to that of fishes. 3. The Varieties in the Aortic Arch itself, along with which must be included those of the ductus arteriosus, are intimately connected with the mode of develop- ment of the fourth and fifth foetal branchial arteries. The natural aortic arch of man, and of all mammalia, is a left one produced by the persistence and develop- a A 2356 ARCH OF THE AORTA. ment of the left fourth branchial arch : in birds it is the right fourth arch which forms the permanent aorta ; and in reptiles both the right and left fourth arches remain patent. Here it may be proper to call attention to the complete lateral transposition, i.c., from right to left and vice versa, which affects the aortic arch and pulmonary vessels, as well as the other parts of the heart, when transposed with or without the transposition of other viscera. Several cases of this kind have been recorded by various observers, and they are usually unattended with any disturbance of the functions or other unnatural condition of structure. There is, in fact, only a change of position, which may be best described by comparing it to that in which the natural parts would appear if viewed by reflection from a mirror. Although this transposition gives rise to no perceptible lesion of function, yet from the direction of the apex of the heart towards the right, and other differences from the natural position, its existence is capable of being ascertained during life Fig. 229.—Diagram of the fcetal aortio ARCHES, SHOWING THEIR TRANSFORMATION INTO THE PERMANENT VESSELS OF THE mammal (after Ratlike). (A. T.) A, to the right of the primitive arterial bulb, now divided into aortic and pulmonary stems, the latter in front; a, the right, a', the left aortic root ; A', the descending aorta; on the right side, the double out- lines, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, indicate the five primi- tive branchial vascular arches ; on the left side, I, II, III, IV, mark the seat of the four branchial or pharyngeal clefts; c, is between the common carotid arteries ; ee, the external carotids ; ci, the right, ci', the left internal carotid; s, the right, s', the left subcla- vian ; v, the right, v', the left vertebral ; the right fourth arch forms the innominate trunk, and passes on to v and s, the right vertebral and subclavian arteries; the left fourth arch passes to a, as the permanent aortic arch ; P, pulmonary arteries springing from the fifth left arch, which at d is continued into the left aortic root as ductus arteriosus ; pn, right, and pit', left pneumo-gastric nerve, The permanent systemic arteries are repre- The aortic arch has been observed completely double in some rare cases, which admit of being explained, on the supposition that both the right and left fourth branchial arches have remained pervious and undergone development. The ascending aorta, having the usual relation to the pulmonary artery, divides above into two branches which pass backwards, embracing the trachea and oesophagus, and join on the left side of the spine to form the descending aorta. Each arch gives origin to the common carotid and subclavian arteries of its own side, in the order mentioned. Examples of this condition have been recorded by Hommel, Curnow, and some others. In one remarkable instance, however, known as Malacarne’s case, the arrangement was different, and seems to have been the result of some unexplained mode of development of the arterial stem. The ascending aorta divided close to the heart, and the two arches embraced the trunk of the pulmonary artery, as well as the trachea and oesophagus ; and each gave rise successively to a subclavian, an external, and an internal carotid artery, an arrangement which is inconsistent with the known modes of development of the branchial vascular arches. The existence of a right aortic arch, that is, one passing to the right of the trachea and gullet, instead of the usual left arch, is easily explained on the sup- Fig.229. which have been arlded to Rathke’s figure, sented in deep shade.357 VARIETIES OF TIIE AORTIC ARCII. position of the right fourth branchial arch having been developed instead of the left; and accordingly there are instances of this variety, in which no other deviation from the natural condition of the parts exists beyond what proceeds from the change of side taken by the aortic arch, leading to the innominate or brachio-cephalic artery being a left one, or furnishing the left subclavian and carotid arteries, and the succeeding vessels being the right carotid and right sub- clavian. The recurrent laryngeal nerve forms its sling on the right side round the aortic arch, and on the left round the arch of the subclavian artery. 4. Varieties of Vke posterior part of the arch and ductus arteriosus belong pro- perly to the changes occurring in connection with the posterior embryonic aortic roots. One of the most frequent varieties of this group is that of the subclavian artery (of the right side, when the aortic arch is left or normal) rising, as it has been described, from the back part of the arch, or fourth in the series of vessels pro- ceeding from it, but which, according to embryological elucidation, would be more correctly designated as the subclavian artery formed in connection with one of the posterior aortic roots ; the natural anterior root and arch being abnormaUy closed. In such cases the subclavian artery takes its course behind the trachea and gullet to reach its subsequent natural place as it passes between the scalene muscles and over the first rib. Fig. 230.—Diagram op the natural origin of vessels prom Fig. 230. THE AORTIC ARCH AS COMPARED WITH THE DISPLACED SUB- CLAVIAN ARTERY. (A. T. ) I., The normal disposition; II., the right subclavian artery displaced or proceeding from the right aortic root. A, A, ascending and descending parts of the thoracic aorta ; P, pul- monary stem ; d, ductus arteriosus ; a, right aortic root or its remains ; a', left aortic root ; c, common carotid arteries ; i, innominate artery ; s, right, and s', left subclavian artery ; v, right, and v’, left vertebral artery. A similar variety may occur in 'an instance of right aortic arch, in which case it is the left subclavian artery which takes the abnormal course. In both examples of this variety, the anterior part of the subclavian arch being absent, the inferior laryngeal nerve is not recurrent, but passes directly to the larynx without being drawn down as a sling or loop by the subclavian artery. There are also many instances of transitions or grada- tions between these cases and the completely double aortic arch. See a paper on “ Varieties of the Arch of the Aorta,” by Turner, in Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Review, 1862, and “ Description of a Case of Right Aortic Arch,” by Allen Thomson, in Glasg. Med. Joum. 1863, in which such cases are more fully explained, and also the works of Henle, Hyrtl, and Struthers. In some of the instances of aberrant subclavian artery of the kind now referred to, the vertebral artery is detached from the subclavian, and rises directly from the arch of the aorta. Under the same division may be brought those numerous varieties in the closure of the ductus arteriosus, and its union with the aorta or other vessels which have been observed ; the greater number of which it will be understood, from the nature of the change in the circulation which takes place at birth, are only compatible with intrauterine life. Such are those cases in which the pulmonary artery leads through the ductus arteriosus, or fifth branchial arch of the left side, into the descending aorta ; while the aortic arch itself is more or less separated by a constriction or even a complete closure of its tube from the descending part of the aorta. It is remarkable, however, that in some rare cases of the kind now referred to, life has been prolonged after birth, and the ductus arteriosus having become closed, probably gradually, the descending aorta hasARflH OF THE AORTA. 358 come to receive a full supply of blood from enlarged anastomosing vessels (internal mammary, intercostal, &.c.) passing between the vessels which rise from the arch and those connected with the descending aorta. Along with the same division may also be classed the series of converse cases, in which the pulmonary arch being closed anteriorly, the pulmonary vessels have received their supply of blood from the descending aorta. Such examples of the origin of the pulmonary arteries from the aorta, as they have been styled, and examples of the origin of the left, or in very rare cases of the right subclavian artery from the ductus arteriosus or from one of the pulmonary arteries, are explicable by reference to the same group of developmental phenomena. 5. The varieties in the number and position of the vessels springing from the arch of the aorta are extremely numerous ; some very frequent, others compa- ratively rare. These vessels may be all collected into one trunk, or they may rise separately from the aorta to the number of six. In the rare case of one trunk, we may suppose the anterior aortic roots to be combined so as to collect all the branches proceeding from them together, as naturally occurs in the horse, forming what is called the anterior aorta. The cases of two vessels from the arch may be of two kinds ; one, which is the commonest of all the varieties of the aortic vessels, in which the left carotid is united with the innominate artery into a common stem ; and the other, com- paratively rare, in which there are two innominate trunks, as in birds. Three is the normal number of branches rising separately from the arch in man, and apes, and some other mammals. There is, however, a rarer form of variety in which the number is the same, and in which, as occurs naturally in some cetacea, the subclavians are both separate vessels, and the two carotids spring from a common stem in the interval between them. The commonest form of the condition in which there are four vessels taking origin from the aortic arch is that in which the sessile left vertebral artery rises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. The origin of four large arte- ries in the order, right carotid, left carotid, left subclavian, and right subclavian, has been referred to (p. 357). A rarer form is that in which the vessels rising from the arch are successively the right subclavian, the right carotid, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The number of five arteries proceeds from the division of the innominate into subclavian and carotid, together with separate origin of the left vertebral artery. In the case of six vessels proceeding from the single arch, of which there are a few instances described, the vessels were in the following order, which is that which might be anticipated from the mode of development, viz.,right subclavian, vertebral and carotid, left carotid, vertebral and subclavian arteries. There are, however, many other varieties and modifications of those already mentioned, for which the fuller works already quoted may be referred to. BRANCHES OF THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. The coronary arteries (iv) are two small vessels, right and left, which arise from the root of the aorta in the upper parts of two of the sinuses of Valsalva, on a level with the margins of the semilunar valves. The right coronary artery arises from the anterior sinus of Valsalva ; it comes forwards between the pulmonary artery and right auricular appendix, then runs obliquely in the auriculo-ventricular groove on the right side and the posterior aspect of the heart, until it reaches the line of separation between the two ventricles, where it divides into two branches. The smaller of these continues transversely in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, approaching the termination of the transverse branch of the left coronary artery; while the other branch runs longitudinally downwards along the posterior interventricular groove, giving branches to each ventricle and to the septum between them.THE CORONARY ARTERIES. 159 In its course the right coronary artery gives, besides the offsets already noticed, small branches to the right auricle and ventricle, and also to the first part of the aorta and the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Along the right border of the ventricle a rather large branch usually descends towards the apex of the heart, and gives offsets, in its progress, to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the ventricle. Fig. 231.—The heart and coronary ARTERIES FROM BEFORE. (R. Quain.) $ The pulmonary artery has been cut short close to its origin in order to show the first part of the aorta : 1, right ventricle; 2, left ventricle ; 3, root of the pulmonary artery ; 4, ascending part of the arch of the aorta ; 4', descending part of the arch; between these is seen the transverse part from which the three large arteries take their origin ; 4", the descending thoracic aorta; 5, right, and 6, left auricular appendix ; 7, V, right and left innominate veins, joining to form the superior vena cava ; 8, the inferior vena cava ; 9, one of the hepatic veins ; +, placed in the right auriculo-ventricular groove, points to the right coronary artery ; + + , placed in the anterior interventricular groove, points to the descending branch of the left coronary artery. The left coronary artery is gene- rally rather larger than the pre- ceding, and arises from the left posterior sinus of Valsalva. It passes behind and then to the left side of the pulmonary artery, appearing between that vessel and the left auricular appendage, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one pursues a, transverse direction in the groove between the left ventricle and auricle, and approaches at the posterior aspect of the heart the transverse branch of the right coronary artery ; the other branch, much the larger, descends on the anterior surface of the heart along the line of the interventricular groove, to the right of the apex. The left coronary artery supplies some small branches at its com- mencement to the pulmonary artery, to the coats of the aorta, and to the left auricular appendage ; its two branches also furnish throughout their course smaller offsets, which supply the left auricle, both ventricles, and the interventricular septum. The two coronary arteries have fine anastomoses with one another on the surface of the heart, and they communicate also, by means of the small branches given to the coats of the great vessels, with the pericar- dial and bronchial arteries. Varieties.-—The coronary arteries have been observed in a few instances to commence by a common trunk, from which they diverged and proceeded to their usual destination. The existence of three coronary arteries is not a very rare occurrence, the third being small, and arising close by one of the others. Meckel,360 INNOMINATE ARTERY. in one instance, observed four, the supplementary vessels appearing like branches of one of the coronary arteries springing directly from the aorta. INNOMINATE ARTERY, The innominate or brachio-cephalic artery (14 mm.), the largest of the vessels which proceed from the aorta, arises from the upper surface of the transverse portion of the arch, before the left carotid artery. From this point the vessel ascends obliquely towards the right, until it arrives opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation of that side, on a le ,7el with the upper margin of the clavicle, where it divides into the right sub- clavian and common carotid arteries. The place of bifurcation would, in most cases, be reached by a probe passed backwards through the interval between the sternal and clavicular portions of the steruo-mastoid muscle. The length of the artery usually ranges from one to two inches. This artery, lying for the most part within the thorax, is placed behind the sternum, from which it is separated by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, by the remains of the thymus gland, and lower down by the left innominate vein, which crosses the artery at its root. The lower part of the innominate artery lies in front of the trachea, the upper against the pleura : on its left side is the left carotid artery below and the trachea above ; and to the right is the corresponding innominate vein. There are usually no branches arising from this vessel. Varieties.—The length of the innominate artery sometimes exceeds two inches, and occasionally it measures less than one inch. Its place of division is a point of surgical interest, inasmuch as upon it in a great measure depends the accessibility of the innominate in the neck, and the length of the right subclavian artery. It is sometimes found dividing a considerable distance below the clavicle, and sometimes, but rather less frequently, above it. Though usually destitute of branches, this vessel supplies occasionally a thyroid branch, the tliyroidea ima, and, in rare cases, the internal mammary artery, or a thymic branch, or a bron- chial artery, which descends in front of the trachea. The tliyroidea ima is an occasional artery. 'When present, it usually arises from the innominate trunk, but in some instances it has been observed to come from the right common carotid artery, or from the aorta itself. More rarely it arises from the right internal mammary or subclavian. It varies greatly in size in different bodies, and compensates in various degrees for deficiencies or absence of the other thyroid arteries. It ascends to its destination in front of the trachea, and its presence might therefore complicate the operation of tracheotomy. COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES (I*). Position and relations—Difference on the two sides.—The common carotid arteries of the right and left sides of the body are nearly similar in their course and position while they are in the neck ; but they differ materially in their place of origin, and consequently in their length, and position at their commencement. On the right side the carotid artery commences at the root of the neck behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, at the bifurcation of the innominate artery ; but on the left side the carotid arises within the thorax, from the middle part of the arch of the aorta, very near the origin of the innominate artery. Tliis number indicates the order to -which the artery belongs : see p. 349.361 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. Fig. 232. Fig. 232.—View op the right common carotid and subclavian arteries, with THE ORIGIN OF THIilR BRANCHES AND THEIR RELATIONS. (R. Quain.) J The sterno-mastoid, sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-liyoid muscles have been in great part removed, the trapezius has been detached from the outer part of the clavicle and turned backwards, and the inner part of the clavicle lias been removed : a, parotid gland near the place where the duct leaves it; b, angle of the jaw and masseter muscle ; c, submaxillary gland ; d, upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; c, hyoid bone ; /, thyroid cartilage ; q, isthmus of the thyroid body ; h, trachea ; i, i', sawn ends of the clavicle, the portion between them having been removed ; k, first rib ; l, sternum ; in, scalenus medius ; n, levator anguli scapulae ; o, deep surface of the trapezius ; on the rectus anticus major muscle, points to the pneumo-gastric nerve ; IV, uppermost of the nerves of the brachial plexus ; A, innominate artery ; 1, right common carotid artery ; 2, internal carotid ; 2', upper part of the internal jugular vein, which has been removed between 2', and i ; 3, and 4, external carotid ; 3 is placed at the origin of the superior thyroid artery ; 4, at that of the lingual ; farther up the vessel may be seen the separa- tion of the sterno-mastoid twig and the facial and occipital branches from the main vessel ; 5, is placed on the thyro-hyoid muscle between the hyoid and laryngeal branches of 5', the superior thyroid artery ; 6, facial artery, passing over the base of the jaw ; 7, super- ficial temporal artery ; 8, first part, 8', third part of the subclavian artery ; 8", subcla- vian vein separated from the artery by the scalenus anticus muscle ; 9, is placed on the362 ARTERIES OP THE HEAD AND NECK. scalenus anticus in the angle between the superficial cervical and suprascapular branches of the thyroid axis ; 10, outer part of the suprascapular artery ; 10', superficial cervical artery ; 10", posterior scapular artery ; 11, on the scalenus anticus, points to the inferior thyroid artery near the place where the ascending cervical artery is given off; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to the outside of the figure ; at i, the suprasternal twig of the suprascapular artery is shown. The left carotid is thus as a whole longer than the right, and its first part is placed at some depth within the thorax. While within the thorax, the left carotid ascends obliquely behind and at some distance from the upper piece of the sternum and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; it is covered in front by the remains of the thymus gland, and is crossed by the left innominate vein. This part of the artery lies at first over the trachea, and then over the oesophagus, which, at the root of the neck, deviates a little to the left side ; the thoracic duct is also behind it. The pneumo-gastric nerve is to its outer side. In the neck, the common carotid artery of each side reaches from the sterno-clavicular articulation to the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it divides into two great branches, of which one is distributed to the superficial parts of the head and to the face, and the other to the brain and eye. From their destination, these divisions are named respectively the external and internal carotid arteries. The oblique course taken by the common carotid artery along the side of the neck is indicated by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular arti- culation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. At the root of the neck, the arteries of opposite sides are separated from each other only by a narrow interval, corresponding with the width of .the trachea ; but, as they ascend, they are separated by a much larger interval, corresponding with the breadth of the larynx and pharynx. The carotid arteries have the appearance of being placed farther back at the upper than at the lower part of the neck, owing to the forward projection of the larynx above. The common carotid artery is enclosed, together with the internal jugular vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve, in a common sheath, which is continuous with the deep cervical fascia ; the nerve, artery and vein have each, however, a separate investment of connective tissue within the sheath. The artery is deeply placed at the lower part of the neck, but is comparatively superficial towards its upper end. It is covered below by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, in addition to the platysma and the layers of fascia between and beneath the muscles ; and it is crossed opposite or near the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage by the omo-hyoid muscle. From this point upwards to its bifurcation, the vessel is covered by the common integument, the pla- tysma and fascia, and in the natural condition of the parts also by the sterno-mastoid; but in the dissected subject, in consequence of the retraction of this muscle when the fascia is removed, the upper portion of the artery is exposed in a triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the posterior belly of the digastric, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the sterno-mastoid muscles, and which is known as the carotid triangle. In this space the artery is crossed by the small sterno- mastoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. Posteriorly, the artery is supported by the cervical vertebrae, the longus colli and rectus anticus major muscles intervening. Hence the flow of blood through it may be commanded by pressure directed back-COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. 363 wards against the vertebral column. The inferior thyroid artery crosses behind the carotid sheath. Internally, the vessel is in relation with the trachea, the thyroid body (which often overlaps the artery), the larynx, the oesophagus, and the Fig. 233. Fig. 233.— Superficial dissection of the right side of the neck to show the carotid and subclavian arteries, &c. (from R. Quain). J a, angle of the jaw and masseter muscle ; b, parotid gland ; c, submaxillary gland ; d, mylo-hyoid muscle below the anterior belly of the digastric ; e, anterior, e', posterior belly of the omo-hyoid ; /, sterno-hyoid ; g, sterno-thyroid ; 1, upon the sterno-mastoid muscle, points by a line to the upper part of the common carotid artery ; 2, upon the scalenus anticus, points to the third part of the subclavian artery ; 3, upon the scalenus medius, points to the superficial cervical artery crossing the nerves of the brachial plexus ; 4, posterior scapular artery, passing under the levator scapulae muscle ; 5, suprascapular artery ; 6, external carotid artery ; 6', internal carotid artery ; 7, upon the thyro-hyoid muscle, points to the superior thyroid artery giving superiorly its hyoid branch ; 8, lingual artery ; 9, placed on the stylo-hyoid muscle, indicates the facial artery ; 10, occipital artery, from the root of which the small sterno-mastoid artery is given of!'; between the occipital and the facial arteries, +, upon the posterior belly of the digastric points to the continuation of the external carotid artery before it passes under that muscle.364 ARTERIES OF TIIE HEAD AND NECK. pharynx. On the inner side of the point of division of the artery, and closely united to its wall, is placed the small vascular body known as the carotid gland (see Yol. II. p. 197). Relation to veins.—The internal jugular vein is close to the artery at the upper part of the neck, but, on approaching the thorax, the two are separated on the right side by an angular interval, in which the com- mencement of the subclavian artery and the pneumo-gastric nerve are exposed ; on the left side, the vein is usually nearer to the artery, and may even overlap it at the lower part of the neck. Crossing over the upper part of the common carotid artery to join the jugular vein, is the superior thyroid vein, often double, and occasionally forming a sort of plexus over the artery. A middle thyroid vein fre- quently crosses the artery about half-way up the neck ; and the anterior jugular vein, as it turns outwards under the stern o-mastoid, crosses the lower part of the artery, but is separated from it by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. There is also in many cases a communicating branch, sometimes of large size, between the facial and anterior jugular veins, which descends obliquely over the front of the artery, lying along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. Relation to nerves.—The descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve, desccndens noni, passes down on the surface of the artery, crossing it very gradually from the outer to the inner side ; and this nerve, together with the branches of the cervical nerves which join it, may be placed either within or on the front of the carotid sheath. The pneumo-gastric nerve lies within the sheath of the vessels between the artery and vein posteriorly. The sympathetic nerve is placed ■ along the back of the sheath, between it and the prevertebral muscles, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve crosses upwards and inwards behind the lower part of the sheath. The common carotid artery usually gives off no branch, and therefore continues of equal size in its whole length, except close to its bifurcation, where a slight enlargement is observable. Varieties.— Origin.—The right carotid artery occasionally arises directly from the aorta, either alone or in conjunction with the left carotid ; and in the latter case it has been seen beginning on the left of the middle line, and crossing the front of the trachea above the upper border of the sternum to gain its usual position on the right side. When it arises from the aorta, it is usually the first large vessel from the arch, the subclavian being displaced ; but it has been found to occupy the second place,—the right subclavian, or, in cases of a right aortic arch, the left carotid being the first. The place at which the right carotid artery commences varies with the point of bifurcation of the innominate artery. A change from the usual position on a level with the upper border of the clavicle was found by R. Quain in the propor- tion of about one case in eight and a half of those observed by him ; and it was found to occur somewhat more frequently below than above that point. The left carotid artery varies in its origin much more frequently than the right. In the greater number of its deviations from the ordinary place of origin, this artery arises from, or in conjunction with, the innominate artery; and in those cases in which the right subclavian is a separate branch of the aorta, the two carotids most frequently arise by a common trunk. In cases of transposition, or of right aortic arch without other abnormality, the left common carotid springs from a left innominate artery, which is the first vessel to rise from the arch, and the right carotid is the second vessel. Place of division.—This often deviates somewhat from its usual position ; it does so more frequently in an upward than in a downward direction. It is often365 COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. as high as the hyoid bone, and occasionally much higher. It is found occasionally opposite the middle of the larynx, and, in rare instances, opposite the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, or even lower. One case was observed by Morgagni, in which the carotid artery, measuring one inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. The carotid artery has been found, as a very rare occurrence, to ascend in the neck without dividing into the two usual branches ; either the external or the internal carotid being altogether wanting.. In a few recorded cases there was no common carotid artery, the external and internal^carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta (Malacame, Power), or from the termination of the innominate artery (Kosinski, Bull, de la Soc. Anat. 1867). Relation to nerves.—The pneumo-gastric nerve has been observed to descend in front of the artery (R. Quain). Occasional branches.—The common carotid artery sometimes gives origin at its upper part to the superior thyroid or ascending pharyngeal artery ; and in some rare cases, to a laryngeal or an inferior or accessory thyroid branch ; also in a few instances, to the vertebral artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. As the common carotid does not in ordinary cases furnish any branch, a ligature may be applied to any part of the vessel except close to its commence- ment or termination. It is usually tied either immediately above or below the omo-hyoid muscle, the former situation being preferred if possible, since the artery is here more superficial, and the operation is consequently free from the difficulties caused by the muscles lower down. An incision is made along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, through the integuments and fascia, and in doing this the communicating vein above referred to (p. 364), if present, must be avoided, or it may if necessary be secured with two ligatures and then divided. A small branch of the superior thyroid artery to the sterno-mastoid muscle will also probably be cut. The sterno-mastoid is next everted, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid displayed and drawn inwards. The sheath is now exposed and is to be opened over the artery near the trachea, in order to avoid the internal jugular vein, and it is best to insert the aneurism needle conveying the ligature on the outer side of the artery, for thus the vein and the pneumo-gastric nerve will be most effectually avoided. In opening the sheath the possible occurrence of a middle thyroid vein, crossing the artery at the level of the cricoid cartilage, should be borne in mind, and the descendens noni nerve, if it comes into view, must be carefully preserved. Should the jugular vein overlap the artery, as it sometimes does, especially at the lower part of the neck on the left side, it will be a source of much difficulty in completing the operation, and great caution will be required in passing the needle round the artery. If the operation is performed at the lower part of the neck, some fibres of the muscles will require to be cut across in order to lay the artery bare with facility; and the necessity for this step increases in approaching the clavicle. Near the clavicle also the transverse lower portion of the anterior jugular vein crosses the line of the incision. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the common carotid trunk the blood is conveyed to the cerebral and ophthalmic branches of the internal carotid from the vertebral arteries and the internal carotid of the opposite side, by means of the free communications existing between these vessels in the circle of Willis. The branches of the external carotid receive blood from the subclavian artery through the anasto- moses of the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and of the occipital with the deep cervical artery, and from the external carotid of the opposite side through the anastomoses of the two superior thyroid, lingual, facial, superficial temporal, and occipital arteries.366 ARTERIES OP THE HEAD AND NECK. EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (II). Position and relations.—The external carotid artery, distributed mainly to the face and to the walls of the cranium, is smaller than the internal in young persons ; but the two are nearly of equal size in adults. It reaches from the point of division of the common carotid, opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the neck of the lower jaw, where it divides into its two terminal branches, the superficial temporal and the internal maxillary. It diminishes rapidly as it ascends, owing to the number and size of the branches which spring from it. At first the external carotid lies in front of and somewhat nearer the mesial plane than the internal carotid ; but it soon becomes superficial to that artery, inclining slightly backwards as it ascends to its place of division. In its lower part the artery is covered by the platysma myoides and the fascia, and in the natural condition of the parts it is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid {cf. p. 362) ; in its upper part it is deeply placed, passing first beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and finally becoming embedded in the substance of the parotid gland. At its commencement it is in contact with the pharynx and hyoid bone ; farther up it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland from the back of the ramus of the lower jaw and the stylo-maxillary ligament, and rests upon the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, which, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, are interposed between it and the internal carotid artery. Relation to veins.—This artery has usually no companion vein, but in the parotid gland the temporo-maxillary trunk is superficial to it, and the anterior division of this, passing down to join the facial vein, is sometimes placed with the artery beneath the digastric muscle ; below the digastric it is crossed by the facial and lingual veins as they pass backwards to open into the internal jugular. Relation to nerves.—Close to the lower border of the digastric muscle the external carotid artery is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and at a short distance from its upper end, in the substance of the parotid gland, by the facial nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve lies between it and the internal carotid ; and the superior laryngeal nerve is on the inner side of both vessels. Branches.—The branches of the external carotid artery are eight in number, viz., three directed forwards, the superior -thyroid, the lingual, and the facial ; two directed backwards, the occipital and posterior auricular; one on the inner side, the ascending pharyngeal; and the superficial temporal and internal maxillary, the two terminal branches into which the trunk divides. In addition to the principal branches here enumerated, the external carotid gives off small offsets to the parotid gland, and to the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. Varieties.—The peculiarities in the origin of this vessel have been noticed along with the varieties of the common carotid artery. Absence of the external carotid artery has been met with in some rare cases, the several branches arising at intervals from a single trunk which represented the common and internal carotids. The branches are not unfrequently crowded together on the main stem, near the commencement, or at a higher point. Occasionally they take origin at regular distances in the whole length of the vessel. The usual number of branches may be diminished by the origin from another artery of one of theEXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 367 ordinary branches, or by the union into a single trunk of two or three branches which are usually derived separately from the main artery : so also the number may be augmented by the transfer to this vessel of some branch not ordinarily derived from it, or by the addition of some unusual branch. The most frequent of these is an artery to the sterno-mastoid, generally derived from the occipital, and this is sometimes enumerated among the primary branches of the external carotid. Fig. 231.—Origin op the branches OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY : THE AVERAGE OP 121 DISSECTIONS (after Wyeth). (G.D.T.) Natural size. s. th, superior thyroid artery ; hy', its hyoid ; s. m', its sterno-mastoid branch ; l, lingual artery ; hy, its hyoid branch ; /, facial artery; t, its tonsillar, and i. p, its inferior palatine branch, arising in common ; a. ph, ascending pharyngeal artery; o, occipital artery; s. m, its sterno-mastoid branch; p. a, posterior auricular artery; p, parotid and muscular branches; i. m, internal maxillary artery; tr. f, transverse facial artery ; a. t, ante- rior, and p. t, posterior branch of the superficial temporal artery. BRANCHES OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 1. Superior thyroid artery (iv).—This, the first of the an- terior set of branches, is given off close to the commencement of the external carotid, immediately below the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From this point the artery curves forwards and downwards to the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage ; it then descends a short distance beneath the omo-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, furnishing offsets to those muscles; and, reaching the upper border of .the thyroid body, distributes branches to its substance, and communicates freely with the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. Branches.—Besides the branches furnished to the muscles which cover it, to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and to the thyroid body, the superior thyroid furnishes the following offsets, which have received distinctive names :— (a) The lvjoid, a small branch, running transversely inwards imme- diately below the hyoid bone, and supplying the soft parts in the neigh- bourhood. This little artery sometimes unites, across the middle line, with its fellow of the opposite side. (h) A superficial descending or sterno-mastoid branch, which passes downwards and backwards over the sheath of the carotid vessels, andARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 368 ramifies in the sterno-mastoid and the muscles attached to the thyroid cartilage, as well as in the platysma and neighbouring integument. The position of this branch with respect to the carotid artery is the only circumstance which gives it interest. (c) The laryngeal branch, or superior laryngeal artery (v), proceeding inwards in company with the superior laryngeal nerve, and piercing the thyro-byoid membrane. Before entering the larynx this branch is covered by the thyro-hyoid muscle. On reaching the interior of the larynx, it ramifies in the small muscles, the glands, and the mucous membrane of that organ. id) The crico-thyroid (vi), a small branch to be noticed on account of its position rather than its size. It crosses the membrane connecting the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, and communicates with a similar branch from the other side : hence it may be a source of haemorrhage in the operation of lnryngotomy. Varieties.—Size.—The superior thyroid artery is frequently larger or smaller than usual. In either case the deviation from the accustomed size is accompanied by an opposite alteration in other thyroid arteries. It has been seen extremely small, ending in branches to the sterno-mastoid muscle and the larynx : total absence on one side has also been recorded. (See the observations on the inferior thyroid artery.) Origin.-—The superior thyroid is often transferred to the upper part of the common carotid artery ; and it is occasionally conjoined with the lingual branch, or with that and the facial branch of the external carotid. There are sometimes two superior thyroid arteries. Branches.—The hyoid branch is frequently very small, or absent. The laryn- geal branch often arises directly from the external carotid artery, rarely from the common carotid. Examples have occurred of this branch being of very large size, and terminating in the thyroid body. The laryngeal artery occasionally enters the larynx through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage, and it has also been observed to pass inwards below the cartilage. The crico-thyroid artery is sometimes of considerable size. 2. Lingual artery (iv).—The lingual artery (fig. 237, p. 376) arises from the fore part of the external carotid, between the superior thyroid and facial arteries, and generally opposite the great cornu of the hyoid bone. From its origin it first ascends for a short distance, and then bends sharply downwards, forming a loop which is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. Disappearing beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, it is continued forwards along the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and under cover of the hyo-glossus, to near the anterior border of that muscle ; it there ascends almost perpen- dicularly to the under surface of the tongue, along which it is continued forwards to the tip, receiving the name of the ranine artery. The lingual artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx and the genio-glossus muscle ; and the hypoglossal nerve, which courses forwards on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus, is placed above the level of the artery, except at the anterior border of the muscle, where the artery ascends and issues above the position of the nerve. Branches.—(a) The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, and supplies the contiguous muscles and skin, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. (b) The dorsal artery of the tongue, which is often replaced by several smaller offsets. This arises from the deep portion of the lingual artery,LINGUAL ARTERY. 369 beneath the hyo-glossus muscle, and ascends to supply the mucous mem- brane of the dorsum, and the substance of the tongue, as well as the tonsil, ramifying as far back as the epiglottis, and communicating around the foramen caecum with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. (c) The sublingual branch. Taking origin at the anterior margin of the hyo-glossus, this branch runs forwards between the genio-glossus muscle and the sublingual gland. It supplies the substance of the gland, and gives branches to the mylo-hyoid and other muscles connected with the tower jaw. Small branches are also distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth and the inside of the gum, and a considerable offset anastomoses across the middle line with the artery of the other side. ((/) The ranine artery passes forwards with a tortuous course, giving numerous branches as it proceeds, and being for the most part embedded in the substance of the tongue between the genio-glossus and inferior lingualis muscles. Near the tip of the tongue it communicates with the opposite ranine artery in a small loop (Krause), but with this exception the right and left arteries do not form other than capillary anastomoses. In the last part of its course the ranine artery lies quite superficially, at the side of the framiun. Varieties.—The lingual artery is often united at its origin with the facial; less frequently with the superior thyroid ; and the three vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk. Instead of passing beneath the hinder border of the hyo- glossus the artery sometimes pierces the origin of the muscle. The lingual artery has been seen replaced entirely or in large part by a branch of the internal maxillary, or of the submental branch of the facial. The hyoid branch is often absent; and it appears that this branch varies in size inversely with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid artery. The sublingual branch is sometimes derived from the facial artery, and then perforates the mylo-hyoid muscle. The lingual artery has been observed to give off, as unusual branches, the superior laryngeal, the submental, and the ascending palatine. Surgical anatomy.—The lingual artery may be tied either in the carotid triangle, before it passes under the digastric muscle, or farther forwards, while it is beneath the hyo-glossus; preferably in the latter situation, since its place of origin is subject to variation and its relation to the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone is therefore not constant. To reach the artery in the submaxillary triangle, a curved incision, reaching from a point a little outside the symphysis nearly to the angle of the lower jaw and descending in the middle to the hyoid bone, is made through the integuments, the platysma and the deep fascia, and the submaxillary gland is drawn upwards, when the intermediate tendon of the digastric is brought into view, together with portions of its two bellies, and the lower end of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Crossing the angle formed by the two bellies of the digastric the hypoglossal nerve is seen, accompanied by the ranine vein, and passing forwards beneath the hinder border of the mylo-hyoid ; and some fibres of the last muscle may be cut if necessary. By then dividing carefully the hyo-glossus muscle in the interval between the hypoglossal nerve and the tendon of the digastric the lingual artery is exposed and may be secured. The facial vein is frequently seen in the posterior angle of the wound, and may be injured if the primary incision is made too freely. 3. Facial artery (iv).—The facial artery (external maxillary), taking origin a little above the lingual, is at first directed upwards, beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and enters the hinder part of the sub- maxillary triangle; it then runs horizontally forwards under cover of the base of the lower jaw, resting on the mylo-hyoid muscle, and being lodged in a groove on the deep surface of the submaxillary gland. Emerging from beneath the gland it turns sharply upwards and crosses vol. r. jj bFig. 2’35.—Superficial view of the arteries of the head and neck (reduced from Tiedemann). g a, orbicularis oris ; b, sterno-mastoid ; c, parotid gland near its duct ; d, hyoid bone ; e, clavicle ; 1, trunk of the common carotid artery near its division into the external and internal carotids; 1', internal carotid ; 2, placed on the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, points to the superior thyroid artery ; 3, lingual artery and its hyoid branch ; 4, placed on the submaxillary gland at the place where the facial artery sinks beneath it, and again where the artery turns over the lower jaw ; 4', termination of the facial artery by division into the angular and lateral nasal branches; 4", is between the frontal and nasal branches of the ophthalmic artery ; 5, submental branch of the facial artery ; 6, inferior labial branch ; 7, transverse facial artery ; 8, superficial temporal artery, passing over the zygoma and distributed by 8', 8', its anterior and posterior divisions on the surface of the cranium ; 9, occipital artery ; 9', its distribution and anastomoses with the superficial temporal and posterior auricular arteries ; 10, third part of the subclavian artery ; 11, superficial cervical, and 12, posterior scapular arteries ; 13, suprascapular artery; 14, acromio-thoracic branch of the axillary artery. 370 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND XECIv. the base of the jaw immediately in front of the masseter, being covered only by the platysma and the integuments : here the pulsation of the artery is easily felt, and the circulation through it maybe controlled by pressure against the bone ; at this point also the vessel may be readily ligatured. Fig. 235.371 FACIAL ARTERY. On the side of the face the artery ascends obliquely, passing near the angle of the mouth and by side of the nose, to the inner canthus of the eye, where it ends by inosculating with the nasal branch of the oph- thalmic artery. In this part of its course the artery is exceedingly tortuous, a circumstance connected with the great mobility of the parts on which it rests. It is crossed by the risorius and the zygomatic muscles ; it lies upon the buccinator, the levator anguli oris and the levator labii superioris (sometimes under the last muscle); and near its ending it is embedded in the fibres of the levator labii superioris alteque nasi. The facial vein is to the outer side of the artery and separated from it by a considerable interval in the face ; at the base of the jaw the vein is close to the artery ; and in the neck the vein is more superficial, being separated from the artery by the submaxillary gland. Branches of the facial nerve cross the vessel ; and the infraorbital nerve is beneath it, separated by the fibres of the elevator of the upper lip. A. Cervical branches.—The following branches are derived from the facial artery below the jaw :— (a) The inferior or ascending palatine artery, a considerable branch, ascends between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and then between the internal pterygoid and the wall of the pharynx, to near the base of the skull, giving small branches to the surrounding muscles, to the tonsil, and to the Eustachian tube. Meeting the levator palati, it turns downwards and passes with that muscle above the upper border of the superior constrictor into the soft palate, where it is distributed to the mucous membrane, the glands, and the muscles, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The place of this artery in the palate is frequently taken by the ascending pharyngeal. (b) The tonsillar branch ascends on the outer side of the stylo-glossus muscle, and, penetrating the superior constrictor of the pharynx, terminates in small vessels upon the tonsil and the side of the tongue near its root. This branch is often represented by one or more twigs from the inferior palatine artery. (c) The glandular branches are several short vessels which enter the substance of the submaxillary gland, while the facial artery is in contact with it. Small twigs are also furnished from this part of the artery to the stylo-hyoid, internal pterygoid, and masseter muscles. (d) The submental branch is the largest arising from the facial in the neck. Leaving the artery near the point at which it turns upwards to the face, this branch runs forwards below the base of the jaw, on the surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and gives branches to the surrounding muscles and the integuments, as well as others which perforate the mylo- hyoid to anastomose with the sublingual artery. Much diminished in size it turns over the border of the jaw near the symphysis, and terminates in branches to the depressor labii inferioris and levator menti muscles, and the other structures of the chin and lower lip, forming anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries, and with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. B. Facial branches.—From, the outer side of the artery in its facial portion small offsets proceed which are distributed to the muscles— masseter, buccinator, &c., and anastomose with the transverse facial, buccal, and infraorbital arteries. The larger branches are directed inwards, and are as follows :— (a) The inferior labial branch arises soon after the facial artery has b u 2372 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK turned over the lower border of the maxilla, and, running forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris, distributes branches to the skin and muscles of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary, sub- mental, and mental arteries. This is frequently an offset of the following branch. (&) The coronary artery of the lower lip (v). Arising at the outer border of the depressor anguli oris, this branch takes a transverse and tortuous course beneath that muscle, and between the orbicularis oris and the mucous membrane near the free margin of the lip, and inosculates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. Small twigs from it supply the orbicular and depressor muscles, the glauds, and other structures of the lower lip ; and some descend towards the chin to communicate there with other branches. (c) The coronary artery of the upper lip (v), arises beneath the zygo- maticus major muscle. It runs across between the muscle and mucous membrane of the upper lip, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side. In addition to supplying the whole thickness of the upper lip, it gives two or three small branches to the nose. One of these, named the artery of the septum, runs along the border of the columna nasi, on which it ramifies as far as the point of the nose. {cl) The lateral nasal artery, often replaced by two or three smaller branches, turns inwards to the side of the nose, over which it ramifies, sending offsets to the ala and the dorsum. It anastomoses with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, with the artery of the septum, and with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. (e) Angular artery. Under this name is recognised the slender terminal part of the facial artery, which inosculates at the inner side of the orbit with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. Varieties.— Origin.—The facial artery frequently arises by a common trunk ■with the lingual. Occasionally it arises above its usual position, and then descends beneath the angle of the jaw to assume its ordinary course. Size.—This artery varies much in size, and in the extent of its distribution. It has been observed, very rarely, however, to end as the submental, not reach- ing the side of the face : hi some cases it supplies the face only as high as the lower lip ; and it often fails to supply the lateral nasal and angular branches. The deficiency of the facial artery is most frequently compensated for by an enlargement of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic at the inner side of the orbit]; occasionally by branches from the transverse facial, or internal maxillary artery. As a rare occurrence it has been found larger than usual, and replacing the nasal and frontal branches of the ophthalmic. Branches.—Thq ascending palatine artery is in some instances transferred to the external carotid. This branch varies in size and the extent to which it reaches. Not unfrequently it is expended without furnishing any branch to the soft palate. When it is thus reduced in size, the pharyngeal artery takes its place in the soft palate. The submental branch has been observed to take its rise from the sublingual artery. On the other hand, the facial artery, instead of the lingual, sometimes furnishes the branch which supplies the subling-ual gland. The two coronary arteries sometimes arise by a common trunk ; and one or other of these vessels may be smaUer than usual, the corresponding artery of the opposite side being enlarged and supplying the deficiency. 4. Occipital artery (iv).—The occipital artery, arising from the posterior part of the external carotid, usually opposite the facial or a little higher up, is directed upwards and backwards, beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, to the interval between the transverse373 OCCIPITAL ARTERY. process of the atlas and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Here it turns backwards along the skull, lying in the occipital groove of the temporal bone, internal to the mastoid process and the sterno-mastoid, splenius, trachelo-mastoid and digastric muscles, and resting on the superior oblique and complexus. Lastly, issuing between the cranial attachments of the sterno-mastoid and trapezius, it ascends beneath the integument on the back of the head, accompanied by the great occipital nerve, and divides into branches, which are distributed upon the upper and back part of the cranium. While in the neck, the occipital artery crosses over tire internal carotid artery, the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, and the internal jugular vein ; and the hypoglossal nerve winds from behind forwards over it at its origin. Branches.—(a) Small muscular offsets to the digastric, stylo-hyoid, splenius, and trachelo-mastoid muscles, and one of larger size to the sterno-mastoid. This sterno-mastoid branch is very constant: arising generally from the occipital artery close to its commencement, but not unfrequently from the trunk of the external carotid, it turns downwards over the loop formed by the hypoglossal nerve, and enters the muscle in company with the spinal accessory nerve. (h) A small twig, the mastoid branch, enters the skull through the mastoid foramen, and ramifies in the diploe and the dura mater. (c) The cervical branch, ramus cervicalis princeps, is distributed to the muscles of the upper and back part of the neck. Descending a short way, this vessel divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The former ramifies beneath the splenius, sending offsets through that muscle to the trapezius ; while the deep branch passes beneath the complexus, and anastomoses with branches of the vertebral artery, and with the deep cervical artery. The size of this branch varies very much. (d) The superficial or cranial branches pursue a tortuous course between the integument and the occipito-frontalis muscle; and in proceeding upwards on the skull they separate into diverging branches, which anastomose freely with one another, as well as with the branches of the opposite artery, of the posterior auricular artery, and of the superficial temporal artery. Varieties.— Origin.—The occipital artery is occasionally derived from the internal carotid, or from the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid —an offset of the subclavian artery. Course.—The occipital artery sometimes passes outside the trachelo-mastoid instead of internal to it. The chief portion of the vessel has been found to pass over the sterno-mastoid muscle, only a small artery being placed in the usual position. In a few instances the artery has been seen to turn backwards below the transverse process of the atlas. Branches.—A posterior meningeal branch is sometimes given from the occipital artery, ascending on the internal jugular vein, and passing through the jugular foramen to ramify in the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. The parietal branch (Cruveilhier) is an occasional offset which springs from one of the terminal branches of the occipital artery, and enters the skull by the parietal foramen to be distributed to the surrounding dura mater. The occipital artery sometimes gives origin to the stylo-mastoid branch (normally an offset of the posterior auricular), to the posterior auricular artery, or to the ascending pharyngeal artery. 5. Posterior auricular artery (v).—The posterior auricular artery arises from the external carotid a little higher up than the occipital. It374 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECIv. Fig. 236. Fig. 236.—The carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries (from Tiedemann). 3 The great pectoral, the sterno-mastoid, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles have been removed ; the front part of the deltoid has been divided near the clavicle ; the greater part of the digastric muscle has been removed, and the upper part of the splenius capitis and trachelo-mastoid divided near the mastoid process. For the explanation of the references from 1 to 12, see p. 405. 13, lower part, 14, upper part of the right common carotid artery ; 15, external carotid artery; 16, internal carotid artery; 17, 17, inside the thyroid axis of the subclavian artery, and pointing to the inferior thyroid artery where it is375 POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY. distributed to tbe gland; 18, superior thyroid artery, anastomosing on the gland with the inferior thyroid ; 19, lingual artery, brought into view by the removal of part of the hyo- glossus muscle; 20, facial artery, giving off the palatine, tonsillar and submental branches; 21, inferior, 22, superior coronary artery ; 23, occipital artery ; 24. posterior auricular artery; 25, superficial temporal artery; 26, internal maxillary artery; 27, transverse facial, in this instance double, and given off directly by the external carotid artery. ascends under cover of the parotid gland, resting on the styloid process of the temporal bone and being crossed by the facial nerve, reaches the groove formed by the cartilage of the ear with the mastoid process, and there divides into two terminal branches, auricular and mastoid, which are distributed to the auricle and to the scalp behind and above the ear. Branches.—(a) Small branches to the parotid gland, and to the digastric and styloid muscles. (h) The stylo-mastoid branch, long and slender, enters the foramen of the same name in the temporal bone in company with the facial nerve. It sends small branches backwards to the mastoid cells, and others for- wards to the stapedius muscle and the tympanum. One of the latter branches is constantly found in young subjects to form, with the tym- panic branch of the internal maxillary artery, a vascular circle around the margin of the tympanic membrane, from which delicate offsets are distributed to that structure. The continuation of the stylo-mastoid branch is a minute twig which runs forwards in the aqueduct of Fallopius and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the large middle meningeal artery. The stylo-mastoid branch frequently arises from the occipital artery. (c) The auricular branch ascends behind the car, passing beneath the retrahens auriculam which it supplies, and is expended mainly in offsets to the auricle, a small branch being prolonged to the integument of the hinder part of the temporal region, and anastomosing with the posterior branch of the superficial temporal artery. The offsets to the auricle are two or more in number ; they supply the inner surface of the pinna, and to a great extent also the outer surface by means of branches which perforate the cartilage or turn over its margin. {cl) The mastoid or occipital branch is directed backwards over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid, supplies the occipitalis muscle and over- lying integument, and anastomoses with the occipital artery. Varieties.—The posterior auricular artery is frequently very small, and lias been seen to end in the stylo-mastoid branch. On the other hand it may be larger than usual and compensate for a deficiency of the occipital or superficial temporal artery. It is often a branch of the occipital. 6. Ascending pharyngeal artery (v).—This artery, the smallest branch of the external carotid that has received a distinctive designation, is a long straight vessel which arises most commonly from half an inch to an inch above the beginning of the external carotid, and runs upwards to the base of the skull on the mesial side of the internal carotid artery, between that and the wall of the pharynx. Branches.—These are very small, and may be divided into three sets, viz., pharyngeal branches, prevertebral branches, and meningeal branches. (a) The pharyngeal branches pass inwards, for the most part to the pharynx. One or two small and variable branches ramify in the middle and inferior constrictor muscles, and anastomose with tlie superior thyroid artery. Higher up than these is a larger and more regular376 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. branch, which runs upon the upper constrictor, and sends small rami- fications to the Eustachian tube, to the tensor and levator palati muscles, and to the tonsil. The last mentioned, or palatine branch, is sometimes of considerable size, and supplies the soft palate, taking the place of the inferior palatine branch of the facial artery, which in such cases is small. It divides into an anterior and a posterior twig, both of which anastomose in the middle line, with their fellows of the opposite side. Fig. 237. Fig. 237.—The lingual and ascending pharyngeal arteries (from R. Quain). \ The left half of the lower jaw has been removed, with the external and internal ptery- goid muscles, and the temporal muscle has been turned up from within the zygoma : a, base of the zygoma, above the glenoid cavity ; b, placed on the lobule of the ear, points by a line to the styloid process, from which the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus are seen passing downwards and forwards, while the stylo-hyoid, detached from the hyoid bone, is thrown backwards with the digastric muscle ; c, transverse process of the atlas ; d, upper surface of the tongue ; e. sawn surface of the lower jaw ; f hyoid bone ; 1, common carotid artery ; 2, internal carotid artery ; 3, external carotid artery ; 3', placed on the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, points by a line to the upper part of the external carotid artery, divided where it enters the parotid gland ; 4, superior thyroid artery, its laryn- geal branch passing upon the thyro-liyoid membrane ; 5, lingual artery, about to pass beneath the hyo-glossus muscle ; 5', placed on the genio-glossus, points to the continuation of the lingual artery as the ranine ; 6, facial artery cut short ; 6', its inferior palatine branch ; 7, occipital artery cut short ; 8, ascending pharyngeal artery ; 8', its upper part turning down upon the pharynx ; 9, internal maxillary artery as it passes into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and gives the posterior dental and the infraorbital arteries ; 9', middle meningeal artery ; 10, placed on the deep surface of the temporal muscle, which shows some cut branches of the deep temporal arteries.377 SUPERFICIAL TEMPORAL ARTERY. (b) The prevertebral branches, small and irregular, are distributed to the longus colli and recti antici muscles, to the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve and some of the cranial nerves as they issue from the skull, and to lymphatic glands. Some of them anastomose with the ascending cervical branch of the subclavian artery. (c) The meningeal branches are terminal twigs, which pass through the foramen lacerum, jugular foramen, and anterior condylar foramen, to end in the dura mater. Varieties.—-This artery varies greatly in its place of origin from the external carotid. It sometimes springs from the occipital, from the internal carotid, or from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery. It is occasionally double, and in a few cases three arteries have been seen. 7. Superficial temporal artery (iv).—The superficial temporal artery, one of the two branches into which the external carotid finally divides a little below the condyle of the lower jaw, continues upwards the direction of the main trunk, while the other branch (the internal maxillary) curves forwards under cover of the jaw. The temporal artery is at first embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, in the interval between the meatus of the ear and the condyle of the lower jaw. Thence it ascends over the posterior root of the zygoma, against which it may, readily be compressed. From this point onwards, it lies close beneath the skin, upon the temporal fascia ; and, a variable distance above the zygoma, it divides into two branches, which again subdivide and ramiiy beneath the integument on the side and upper part of the head. Branches.—Besides several small offsets to the parotid gland, some branches to the articulation of the lower jaw, and one or two to the masseter muscle, the temporal artery gives off the following branches :— (a) The transverse facial artery. This branch arises while the temporal artery is deeply seated in the parotid gland, beneath the anterior part of which it runs nearly horizontally forwards ; placed above the parotid duct, it rests on the masseter muscle, and is accompanied by some transverse branches of the facial nerve. It gives small vessels to the parotid gland, the masseter muscle, and the neighbouring integu- ment ; and divides into three or four branches, which are distributed to the side of the face, anastomosing with the buccal, infraorbital and facial arteries. (b) The middle temporal branch arises close above the zygoma. Im- mediately perforating the temporal fascia, it ascends in a slight groove on the squamous part of the temporal bone and gives branches to the temporal muscle, which communicate with the deep temporal branches of the internal maxillary artery. (c) The anterior auricular branches, two or more in number, superior and inferior, are distributed to the fore part of the pinna, the lobule of the ear, and a part of the external meatus, anastomosing with the ramifi- cations of the posterior auricular artery. (d) The orbital branch, sometimes arising from the middle temporal, runs forwards above the zygoma to supply the outer part of the orbicu- laris palpebrarum muscle and the skin. This branch varies much in size, and it is not unfrequently absent. if) The anterior temporal branch is one of the two terminal branches of the temporal artery. This vessel inclines forwards as it ascends over the temporal fascia, and ramifies extensively upon the fore part of the head,ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 373 supplying the orbicular and occipito-frontal muscles, the pericranium, and the skin, and communicating with the supraorbital and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery, as well as with offsets of the posterior branch. On the upper part of the cranium the branches of this artery are directed from before backwards. When it is desired to take blood from the temporal artery, the anterior temporal branch is selected for the operation. (/) The posterior temporal branch, which is usually larger than the an- terior, ascends on the side of the head, over the temporal fascia ; its branches ramify freely in the coverings of the cranium, both upwards to the vertex, where they communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and backwards to join with the occipital and posterior auricular arteries. Varieties.—The terminal branches of the temporal artery arc frequently very tortuous, especially in aged persons. The anterior temporal branch is sometimes larger than the posterior, and, passing backwards over the vertex of the head, communicates with the occipital. The transverse facial artery varies in size ; occasionally it is much larger than usual, and takes the place of a defective facial artery. It is frequently double. In many instances the transverse artery arises directly from the external carotid (fig. 236). The orbital branch is sometimes of considerable size, and extends into the eyelids; it has been seen to commu- nicate with the supraorbital artery and supply a large part of the forehead (Cruveilhier). 8. Internal maxillary artery (iii).—1The internal maxillary or deep facial artery, the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, is concealed by the parotid gland at its origin below the con- dyle of the jaw; it curves horizontally forwards between the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary joint, then passes obliquely forwards and upwards either on the outer or inner surface of the external pterygoid, and opposite the interval between the two heads of that muscle, bends inwards to the spheno-maxillary fossa, where it ends by breaking up into a number of branches. To facilitate the arrangement of its numerous branches, this artery may be divided into three parts, viz., 1, the part between the jaw and the internal lateral ligament; 2, the part in contact with the external ptery- goid muscle ; and, 3, the part in the spheno-maxillary fossa. A. Branches of the first part.—(a) The deep auricular branch, of small size, and often arising in common with the next offset, perforates the anterior wall of the external auditory meatus, and supplies the skin and outer part of the tympanic membrane. (fi) The tympanic branch, also small and variable in its origin, enters the tympanum by the fissure of Gflaser, and is distributed to the structures within that cavity and the tympanic membrane, anastomosing with the stylo-mastoid artery (see p. 375). (c) The middle or great meningeal artery (v), the largest branch of the internal maxillary, passes directly upwards under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, between the two roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, and enters the skull by the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone. Within the cranium, it ascends towards the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into two branches, which subdivide and ramify in deep arborescent grooves on the inner surface of the calvaria, passing upwards on the parietal bone as high as the vertex, forwards to the frontal bone, and backwards to the occipital bone.INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 379 Immediately on entering the cranium the meningeal artery gives minute twigs to the Gasserian ganglion and to the dura mater near the sella turcica, and a small petrosal branch which enters the hiatus Fallopii, and anastomoses with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery. It also anastomoses with branches of the ophthalmic artery, (d) The small meningeal arterg, usually arising from the preceding, enters the skull through the foramen ovale, to supply the Gasserian ganglion and the dura mater in the middle fossa. (e) The inferior denial arterg, passing downwards, enters the dental canal with the inferior dental nerve, and subsequently escapes on the face by the mental foramen. As it enters the canal, it gives off the mylo-hyoid Fig. 238. Fig. 238.—Deep dissection of the head and face, to show the internal MAXILLARY ARTERY AND ITS BRANCHES (from TieclemRIHl). g. The right half of the calvaria, the zygomatic arch, and the upper half of the ramus of the lower jaw, with the external pterygoid muscle, have been removed ; some of the superficial muscles of the face have been divided, and the internal pterygoid and buc- cinator muscles are exposed : 1, facial artery, rising over the edge of the lower jaw ; 2, inferior coronary artery ; 2', mental branch of the inferior dental artery ; 3, facial artery continued ; 4, superior coronary ; 5, lateral nasal ; 6, frontal branch of the ophthalmic artery, from which the nasal artery is seen descending on the nose ; 7, internal carotid artery ; 8, external carotid ; 9, division of the external carotid into superficial temporal and internal maxillary arteries ; 10, superficial temporal; 11, masseteric branch of the external carotid artery ; 12, internal maxillary artery, at the origin of its inferior dental branch ; 13, on the base of the zygoma, points to the origin of the middle meningeal branch, and on the dura mater above, to its distribution ; 14, on the lower part of the temporal muscle, is between the deep temporal branches of the artery ; 15, pterygoid branches ; 16, buccal artery ; 17, posterior dental, and deepest part of the internal maxillary artery where it enters the splieno-maxillary fossa; 18, branches of the infraorbital artery issuing upon the face.380 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. branch, which, with the nerve bearing the same name, runs in a groove on the inner surface of the jaw, below the dental foramen, and ramifies on the under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle. In its course through the bone, the inferior dental artery gives off small offsets, which ascend to enter the minute apertures in the extremities of the fangs of the teeth, and supply the pulp of each ; before emerging at the mental foramen, it sends forwards a branch which supplies the incisor teeth and com- municates with its fellow of the opposite side. The terminal or mental branch anastomoses with the inferior coronary, inferior labial, and sub- mental arteries. (/) A small branch, arising either from the inferior dental artery or from the internal maxillary trunk, descends with the lingual nerve, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the mouth. B. —Branches of the second part.—(a) The deep temporal branches, two in number (anterior and posterior), ascend between the temporal muscle and the cranium, supply that muscle, and anastomose with the middle temporal artery, and with minute branches of the lachrymal artery, through small foramina in the malar bone. (b) The pterygoid branches, small, short offsets, irregular in number and origin, are distributed to the pterygoid muscles. (c) The masseteric is a small but regular branch which passes from within outwards, with the nerve of the same name, through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the deep surface of the masseter muscle. It is often joined at its origin with the posterior temporal branch. (d) The buccal branch runs obliquely downwards and forwards upon the buccinator muscle with the buccal nerve; it is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the cheek, and anastomoses with the branches of the facial and other arteries of this region. C. —Branches of the third part.—(a) The posterior dental or alveolar branch, arising near the back of the superior maxilla, frequently in common with the infraorbital branch, runs tortuously downwards upon the zygomatic surface of the bone, and gives off branches which enter the posterior dental canals, and supply the upper molar and bicuspid teeth, besides ramifying in the lining membrane of the maxillary sinus. Other small branches supply the gum. (b) The infraorbital artery runs horizontally forwards into the infra- orbital canal, and having traversed that canal along with the superior maxillary nerve, emerges upon the face at the infraorbital foramen. While in the canal, it sends upwards into the orbit small branches, which enter the inferior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles of the eye and the lachrymal gland, and an anterior dental branch (sometimes two) which descends in the canal of the same name to supply the front teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum. On the face it gives branches upwards, to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit, anastomosing with branches of the ophthalmic and facial arteries, and sends other branches downwards, beneath the levator labii superioris, which join the ramifications of the transverse facial, buccal, and facial arteries. (c) The descending or superior palatine artery descends through the posterior palatine canal, with the large palatine nerve, and runs along the hard palate, supplying the mucous membrane, the glands, and the gum. In front it ends in a small vessel which ascends through the incisor foramen, and anastomoses with the naso-palatine artery. On its way downwards, this artery sends off twigs through the smaller palatineINTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 381 canals, which are distributed to the soft palate and tonsil, and com- municate with the ascending palatine branch of the facial artery. (d) The Vidian branch traverses the Yidian canal with the nerve of the same name ; it is distributed to the Eustachian tube and the top of the pharynx, and sometimes sends a small vessel into the tympanum. (<?) The pterygopalatine, a very small branch, passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal to reach the top of the pharynx, to which, and to the Eustachian tube and sphenoidal sinus, it is distributed. (/) The nasal or sphenopalatine artery enters the spheno-palatine foramen, and divides into branches, some of which ramify extensively over the spongy bones, while others supply the ethmoidal cells, the frontal sinus, and the antrum. One long branch, the nasopalatine artery or artery of the septum, runs downwards and forwards in the groove on the vomer, and ends in a small vessel which enters the incisor foramen to communicate with the descending palatine artery. Varieties.—Tlie internal maxillary artery is very constant in its place of origin. It has, however, been seen to arise from the facial (R. Quain, Hyrtl) ; and in two cases, after leaving the temporal artery below the angle of the jaw, it pierced the internal pterygoid muscle in its course upwards into the zygomatic fossa (Joessel, W. Gruber). The number of branches arising from the internal maxillary artery is fre- quently reduced owing to two or more taking origin by a common trunk. The middle meningeal artery occasionally furnishes the lachrymal (usually an offset of the ophthalmic), or even the ophthalmic artery itself ; and on the other hand the ophthalmic has been seen to give off the middle meningeal ; peculiarities which may be explained as resulting from the enlargement of an ordinary anastomosing branch. The anterior deep temporal artery may reinforce or replace the lachry- mal artery by a similar enlargement of an anastomosing branch. The buccal, posterior dental or infraorbital artery may be larger than usual, supplying a deficiency of the facial artery. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY (II). Course and relations.—The internal carotid artery is distributed to the brain, to the eye with its appendages, and in part to the forehead and nose. It extends directly upwards from the termination of the common carotid artery, opposite the upper border of the thyroid carti- lage, to the carotid canal of the temporal bone. Traversing this canal, it enters the cranial cavity by the inner part of the foramen lacerum ; it then passes forwards in the carotid groove on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, at the fore part of which it makes a sharp bend with its convexity directed forwards ; and lastly, it turns upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process to reach the inner end of the Sylvian fissure of the brain, where it terminates by dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries. In the nec7c, the internal carotid artery lies at first behind the external carotid, and is covered only by the sterno-mastoid muscle with the platysma myoides and fascia. It soon, however, passes beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, gaining the inner side of the external carotid trunk, and is then deeply placed beneath the parotid gland, the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. Behind the artery is the rectus anticus major muscle, and on its inner side are the pharynx and the tonsil. The |internal jugular vein is in contact with the artery as far as the base of the skull, lying on its posterior and outer aspect, and the two are enclosed, together with the pneumo-gastric nerve, in a pro-382 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. longation of the carotid sheath. The vessel is crossed by the occipital artery beneath the digastric, and by the posterior auricular artery above that muscle. The pneumo-gastric nerve and the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic are placed deeply behind the artery ; the hypoglossal nerve crosses it superficially near the lower border of the digastric, and higher up the glossopharyngeal nerve and the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric pass forwards between the external and internal carotids; while the superior and external laryngeal nerves are internal to both vessels. Close to the base of the skull the glossopharyngeal, pneumo- gastric, spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves issue between the artery and its companion vein. In the carotid canal, the artery first ascends for a short distance, being placed immediately in front of the tympanum and internal ear, then passes horizontally forwards and inwards to the foramen lacerum, where it turns upwards in the groove of the sphenoid internal to the lingula (p. 43). It is here accompanied by the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion of tie sympathetic. Within the cranium, the iuterual carotid artery lies along the floor of the cavernous sinus as it passes forwards in the groove on the side of the body of the sphenoid ; it is surrounded by filaments of the sympathetic, the sixth nerve is in contact with its outer side, and it receives, in company with these nerves, an investment from the thin lining membrane of the sinus. Perforating the upper wall of the sinus on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, the artery ascends between the second and third nerves to the anterior perforated spot at the base of the brain, where it divides into its two terminal branches. Branches.—In the neck the internal carotid artery gives usually no branch. AYhile in the carotid canal it sends a small offset to the tympanum, which anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. Within the cavernous sinus some small branches proceed from it to supply the adjacent dura mater, the pituitary body and the Gasserian ganglion. Opposite the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid gives off the ophthalmic artery ; and at the Sylvian fissure of the brain, before dividing into the anterior and middle cerebral arteries, it gives off or is joined by the posterior communicating artery, a slender anastomotic branch which unites the internal carotid with the posterior cerebral branch of the basilar artery. Varieties.—The cervical part of this artery is sometimes tortuous. In some very rare cases the internal carotid has arisen directly from the arch of the aorta or from the division of the innominate artery (p. 365). A few examples of its entire absence are recorded. Its lower part occasionally gives origin to the occipital or the ascending pharyngeal artery ; and in one case its intracranial portion furnished a considerable meningeal offset to the posterior fossa of the skull (Curnow, Journ. Anat. viii., 155). A large communicating branch has been seen passing from the part of the internal carotid within the cavernous sinus backwards to the trunk of the basilar artery (R. Quain, Duret, Tareniecki.). BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. 1. Ophthalmic artery (v).—This artery, arising from the internal carotid below the anterior clinoid process, enters the orbit by the optic foramen, below and to the outer side of the optic nerve. It soon changes its direction, passing over, seldom under, the nerve to reach the inner wall of the orbit, along which it runs forwards between the superiorOPHTHALMIC ARTEC,'Y. 383 oblique ancl internal rectus muscles, and ends opposite the internal angular process of the frontal bone by dividing into the nasal and frontal arteries. Branches.—(«) The lachrymal artery, arising on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes forwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland, in' which the greater number of its branches are distributed. Some-of the branches pass onwards to the eyelids and conjunctiva, joining with other palpebral branches ; and one or two delicate malar branches pierce the malar bone and reach the temporal fossa, where they join branches from, the deep temporal arteries. The lachrymal artery has also branches of communication through the sphenoidal fissure with small offsets from the middle meningeal artery. (b) The central artery of the retina, a small vessel, pierces the sheath and substance of the optic nerve about a quarter of an inch behind its junction with the eyeball, and runs imbedded within it to the retina, in which it ramifies. (See description of the eye in Yol. II.) (,c) The supraorbital branch, arising as the artery crosses the optic nerve, ascends above the muscles, courses forwards to the supraorbital notch, in company with the frontal nerve, and terminates on the forehead. It distributes branches to the eyelids, and communicates with the super- ficial temporal and frontal arteries. (d) The ciliary arteries are divided into two sets, posterior and anterior. The posterior are four- or five small vessels which divide into numerous branches (fifteen to twenty) as they pass forwards, surrounding the optic nerve, to reach the back of the eyeball. Piercing the sclerotic coat near the entrance of the optic nerve, the greater number (short ciliary arteries) pass at once into the choroid coat; but two, which are somewhat larger than the others, extend forwards, one on each side of the eye, between the sclerotic and choroid coats to the ciliary muscle and iris, and are distinguished as the long ciliary arteries. The anterior ciliary arteries, six to eight, are derived from the muscular and lachrymal branches ; they form a vascular ring beneath the conjunctiva at the fore part of the eyeball, and then pierce the sclerotic within a line or two of the margin of the cornea. The mode of distribution of these arteries within the eyeball is described in the account of the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II. (e) Small muscular offsets arise at uncertain intervals from the trunk of the artery, as well as from the lachrymal and supraorbital branches ; in addition to these there are two more regular branches, a superior, which is distributed to the upper and inner muscles of the orbit, and an inferior, larger and more constant, to the lower and outer muscles. (/) The ethmoidal arteries are two in number, a posterior and an anterior. The posterior enters the posterior internal orbital canal and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal cells and upper part of the nose. The anterior is larger and passes with the nasal nerve into the cranial cavity where it gives off small anterior meningeal branches to the dura mater in the anterior fossa, and then descends into the nose (anterior nasal artery). It supplies the mucous membrane of the fore part of the nasal fossa, frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells, and one small twig accompanies the termination of the nasal nerve to the skin of the nose. (g) The two palpebral branches, superior and inferior, arise near the front of the orbit, usually together, but soon diverge, one lying above, the other below the internal tarsal ligament. They send small branches toARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 384 Fig. 239.—Semidiaqrammatic view of the arteries of the orbit and NEIGHBOUR- ING FARTS, WITH THEIll BRANCHES AND ANASTOMOSES (founded On Hirscllfeld and Leveilld, with additions). (A.T.) The outer wall of the orbit has been removed, the maxillary sinus is laid open, the eyelids are turned forwards, and the external and superior recti, and the superior oblique muscles have been partially removed : a, optic nerve ; b, hook, holding up the posterior part of the superior rectus muscle, the anterior part of which is left attached to the eyeball ; c, lachrymal gland, thrown up on the frontal bone ; d, inferior oblique muscle ; e, inferior rectus ; /, /, anterior and posterior portions of the external rectus ; g, maxil- lary sinus ; h, hook, holding up the eyelids, of which the deep surface is shown. I, internal carotid artery below the inferior aperture of the carotid canal, which is indicated higher up by a ring surrounding the artery ; 1', the part of the artery situated within the temporal bone, a second ring indicating the place of the foramen lacerum ; 1", the part of the artery situated on the sphenoid bone ; from this artery, 1, twig to the tympanum ; 2, twigs in the cavernous sinus ; 3, posterior communicating artery ; 4, middle cerebral; 5, anterior cerebral. II, basilar artery ; from this artery, t>, posterior cerebral ; 7, superior cerebellar : the accented numbers, 3', 4', 5', O', 7', indicate, on tbe left side, the arteries already named under the same numbers on the right side, which with these and the anterior communi- cating branch marked by +, complete the circle of Willis. III, upper part of the external carotid artery, dividing into III +, the superficial temporal, and III', III", the internal maxillary artery ; upon the latter artery, 1, inferior dental branch ; 2, middle meningeal ; 3, 3, masseteric and pterygoid branches ; 4, buccal ; 5, 5, anterior and posterior deep temporal; 6, posterior dental ; 7, infraorbital ; 7', branches of the same issuing upon the face ; 8, part of the internal maxillary which passes into the splieno-maxillary fossa. IV, facial artery, terminating at 11, in the angular, and giving off, at 12, the lateral nasal branch, and others which communicate with the infraorbital. In the orbit the following numbers indicate the ophthalmic artery and its branches : 1, the ophthalmic artery at its origin from the internal carotid ; 1', the same artery con- tinued on the upper and inner side of the orbit; 2, lachrymal branch ; 3, central artery of the retina ; 4, 4, posterior ciliary arteries ; 5, 5, upper and lower muscular branches ; 6, supraorbital; 7, 7', posterior and anterior ethmoidal arteries; 8, palpebral ; 8', 8", its superior and inferior divisions; .9, frontal ; 10, nasal, inosculating with the angular of the facial.385 CEREBRAL ARTERIES. the conjunctiva, the caruncle and the lachrymal sac, and then pass out- wards between the orbicularis muscle and the tarsus, to form arches, one near the free margin of each lid, with the palpebral branches of the lachrymal artery. (h) The nasal branch courses forwards above the internal tarsal liga- ment to the root of the nose, where it ramifies, maintaining a free com- munication with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. (i) The frontal artery turns upwards round the inner end of the orbital arch, and is distributed to the integument, muscles and periosteum of the mesial part of the forehead, anastomosing with the supraorbital artery and with the corresponding artery of the other side. Varieties.—The lachrymal artery occasionally, and in rarer cases a large part or even the whole of the ophthalmic itself, arises from the middle meningeal artery ; or the ophthalmic artery has been seen to give off the middle meningeal (p. 381). The nasal branch is sometimes large, and supplies a deficiency of the facial artery. 2 and 3. Cerebral arteries.—The terminal branches of the internal carotid artery supply the anterior two-thirds of the cerebrum. The anterior cerebral artery (iv), commencing at the division of the Fig. 240.—The distri- Fig. 240. BUTION OF THE INTER- NAL CAROTID AND VER- TEBRAL ARTERIES AT TnE BASE OF THE BRAIN (altered from Ilirschfeld and Leveill^). (A. T.) 4 On the left side a por- tion of the temporo-sphe- noidal lobe of the cerebrum has been removed, so as to open up the fissure of Sylvius and expose the island of Reil ; and the left half of the cerebellum has been removed to show the lower surface of the posterior part of the cere- bral hemisphere: 1, placed on the optic commissure, points to the divided stem of the left internal carotid artery; 2, left anterior cerebral artery, exposed fully by the removal of the optic nerve ; 2', placed on the genu of the corpus callosum between the two anterior cerebral arteries ; x , placed on the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure, marks the anterior communicating artery ; 3, left middle cerebral artery, passing into the fissure of Sylvius and distributing its branches over the convolutions of the island of Reil and others beyond ; 4, placed between the infundibulum and the corpora albicantia, points by a line to the left posterior communicating artery ; 5, basilar artery ; G, left posterior cerebral artery ; 7, placed on the pons Varolii, points to the right superior cerebellar artery ; 8, anterior cerebellar artery ; between 7, and 8, one of the largest of the transverse branches of the basilar artery; 9, 9, right and left vertebral arteries ; 10, inferior cerebellar artery ; 11, anterior spinal arteries. VOL. I. C C386 ARTERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. internal carotid at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, runs forwards and inwards to reach the fore part of the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres ; and as it enters this fissure it is connected with the vessel of the opposite side by the anterior communicating artery, a small transverse branch not more than two lines in length. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying close together, in the next place turn round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, gain its upper surface, and break up into their terminal branches, which are distributed mainly to the frontal lobe of the hemisphere. A few small twigs enter the anterior perforated spot, and others supply the optic nerve. The middle cerebral artery (iii) passes obliquely outwards and upwards in the fissure of Sylvius to the surface of the island of Eeil, where it divides into several branches, which ramify in the pia mater investing the outer surface of the hemisphere. Numerous small branches, spring- ing from the artery close to its origin, turn upwards at once, and enter the brain at the anterior perforated spot. One or two anterior choroid arteries, which sometimes arise directly from the internal carotid, pass backwards and enter the fissure between the temporo-sphenoidal lobe and the crus cerebri, to reach the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, in which they are distributed to the choroid plexus. Varieties.—In rare instances, the anterior cerebral arteries are united into a single trunk, like the basilar artery behind, and this again divides into a right and left artery. Both anterior cerebral arteries have also been seen to spring from one internal carotid, by means of a common trunk which bifurcated as it entered the longitudinal fissure. The anterior communicating artery is sometimes double. The posterior communicating artery is sometimes connected with the middle cerebral artery instead of the trunk of the internal carotid. The posterior cere- bral artery of one side frequently arises by an enlarged posterior communicating artery from the internal carotid, and is connected only by a slender vessel with the basilar. The opposite condition, in which the middle cerebral artery is derived from the posterior, has been recorded by Hyrtl. Circle of Willis.—A remarkable anastomosis exists between the branches of the vertebral and internal carotid arteries within the cranium, by which the circulation is equalised in different parts of the brain, and any irregularity which might arise from the obliteration of one, or even two of the vessels, may speedily be remedied by a corresponding enlargement of the others. This anastomosis, known as the circle of Willis, is formed in the following manner. The anterior cerebral arteries are connected together, as already mentioned, by the anterior communicating artery. The right and left internal carotids, the trunks from which the anterior cerebral arteries arise, are united by the posterior communicating arteries to the pos- terior cerebral arteries, and these arise behind from a single trunk—the basilar artery. Within or opposite to the area of this vascular circle are the following parts of the encephalon, viz., the lamina cinerea, optic com- missure, infundibulum and tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and posterior perforated spot. Distribution of the cerebral arteries.—The mode of distribution of the arteries of the cerebrum has been studied by Heubner and Duret. According to these authors, the three cerebral arteries—anterior, middle, and posterior—give origin to two very distinct systems of vessels. The first of these, consisting of branches given off by the arteries while within or immediately after leaving the circle of Willis, is destined to the great central ganglia, and is called the centralSUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 3S7 c c 2 system of arteries; the other ramifies in the pia mater, and is distributed to the grey matter of the convolutions and the subjacent white matter ; it is called the cortical system of arteries. These two systems are to a great extent independent of each other, the vessels which connect them being few in number, and of almost capillary minuteness. Moreover, not only are the two systems thus distinct, but the primary branches of the several arteries are also limited in their distribution to certain well-defined areas, and their communications are few and small, so as to render these areas practically independent territories. The same remark applies, in a less degree, however, to the secondary, and even tertiary divisions of these arteries. The anterior cerebral artery has a very limited central distribution, giving only a few small branches (and these liable to much variation as to size and number) to the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus. Its cortical branches are three or four small arteries to the orbital portion of the first frontal convolution, supply- ing also the olfactory lobe, and three terminal branches which arise on the upper surface of the corpus callosum near its anterior end. The first of these is dis- tributed to the lower part of the marginal convolution and the first and second frontal convolutions ; the second to the callosal convolution and the upper part of the marginal convolution ; and the third supplies the quadrate lobule and gives off the artery of the corpus callosum, which runs backwards on the upper surface of that body to its posterior extremity. The middle cerebral artery immediately after leaving the internal carotid gives off a number of small vessels which pass directly upwards, parallel to each other, into the foramina of the anterior perforated spot, and enter the base of the corpus striatum. They are distributed to the lenticular nucleus of that body, to the pos- terior part of the caudate nucleus, and the neighbouring portion of the optic thalamus. The main trunk of the middle cerebral passes upwards and outwards in the fissure of Sylvius until it reaches the island of Reil, on the surface of which it divides into four branches. The first branch is limited in its distribution to the outer part of the orbital surface of the hemisphere and the adjacent inferior frontal con- volution ; the second branch supplies the chief part of the ascending frontal con- volution ; the third branch passes in the fissure of Rolando to the rest of the ascending frontal and to the ascending parietal convolution, and to the ante- rior part of the superior parietal lobule ; and the fourth, lying in the posterior branch of the fissure of Sylvius, supplies the inferior parietal lobule, and the superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution. The posterior cerebral artery (the origin and cour se of which are described at p. 395) gives off a number of twigs over the posterior perforated spot, and others as it passes round the crus cerebri, both of which sets pass into the optic thalamus, crus cerebri and corpora quadrigemina, and one or two posterior choroid arteries to the upper part of the choroid plexus. The cortical branches are three in num- ber : the first is distributed to the anterior part of the uncinate gyrus and its immediate vicinity ; the second branch supplies the middle part of the uncinate, the lower occipito-temporal, and the lower temporo-sphenoidal convolutions ; the third, lying in the calcarine fissure, supplies the occipital lobe on its inner and outer surfaces. (Heubner, Centralbl. f. d. med. Wissensch. 1872 ; H. Duret, Arch, de Physiol. 1874.) SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The subclavian artery is the first portion of a long trunk which forms the main artery of the upper limb, and which is artificially divided for purposes of description into three parts, named the subclavian, axillary, and brachial arteries. The subclavian artery, arising on the right side from the extremity of the innominate stem, and on the left from the arch of the aorta, passes a short way up into the neck, arches outwards over the pleura and lung, and rests between the scalenus anticus and scalenus medius muscles on the first rib. At the outer border of the first rib it ceases to be called338 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. subclavian, and is continued into the axillary artery. It has an average length of about three inches on the right side; an inch more on the left. The subclavian artery is considerably larger than the common carotid ; and as the trunk gives origin to several large branches it diminishes in size towards its termination (from 11 to 9 mm.). The left artery is almost constantly a little smaller than the right. Each subclavian artery is conveniently divided into three parts,—the first part extending from the origin of the vessel to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle ; the second consisting of the portion of the vessel situated behind that musole ; and the third reaching outwards to the external border of the first rib. In examining each of these portions in detail, it will be necessary to give a separate description of the first part on the right and the left sides, as there is a material difference in the origin, course, and relations of the two vessels. The first part of the right subclavian artery commences close to the trachea, at the division of the innominate artery, behind the upper part of the sterno-clavicular articulation, and ends at the inner margin of the anterior scalenus muscle. Separating gradually from the carotid artery, it arches upwards and outwards, and ascends above the level of the clavicle to an extent which varies in different cases. It is deeply placed, being covered by the stemo-mastoid, the sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia. It is in contact with the pleura below and behind. Relation to veins.—The right innominate vein lies below and somewhat in front of this part of the artery, while the internal jugular and vertebral veins, in their course to join the innominate, descend over its anterior surface. Farther forwards the anterior jugular vein passes transversely outwards, but is separated from the artery by the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscles. Relation to nerves.—The pneumo-gastric nerve crosses the front of the artery to the inner side of the internal jugular vein, and its recurrent laryngeal branch, turning round below the artery, ascends behind. Some cardiac nerves and a loop or two of the sympathetic descend over the artery, while the main trunk of the latter passes behind. The first part of the left subclavian artery arises from the upper aspect of the arch of the aorta, at the left end of its transverse portion, and is, therefore, much longer than the first part of the right subclavian. It ascends almost vertically out of the thorax to the root of the neck, where it turns sharply outwards, across the apex of the lung, to reach the interval between the scaleni muscles. It is at first overlapped by the left lung, and is covered in front and on the left side by the pleura ; it rests for a short space on the oesophagus (here deviating to the left side) and the thoracic duct, and afterwards on the longus colli muscle. To the inner or right side of the vessel is at first the trachea, and higher up are the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. The left common carotid artery lies farther forwards than the subclavian artery, and is not in contact with it. The thoracic duct arches from behind forwards and outwards over this part of the artery in its course to the angle of union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. Relation to veins.—The internal jugular and vertebral veins are im- mediately in front of the artery, where it turns outwards from the thorax, close to the scalenus muscle ; and lower down the left innominate vein is anterior to it.SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 389 Relation to nerves.—The pneumo-gastric nerve is in front of and parallel to the first part of the left subclavian artery, but in contact with it only at its lower part. The phrenic nerve descends over the artery along the inner margin of the scalenus muscle, immediately outside the Fig. 241. Fig. 241.—View of the right common carotid and subclavian arteries, with the ORIGIN OF THEIR BRANCHES AND THEIR RELATIONS. (R. Quain. ) £ For tlie explanation of the references in the upper part of this figure, see p. 361. The following explanation relates to the subclavian artery and its branches : 8, first part, 8', third part of the subclavian artery ; 8", subclavian vein, shown by the removal of a portion of the clavicle ; 9, is placed on the scalenus anticus, in the angle between the superficial cervical and suprascapular branches of the thyroid axis ; 10, outer part of the suprascapular artery ; 10', superficial cervical artery, passing into the deep surface of the trapezius; 10", posterior scapular artery, rising from the third part of the subclavian artery, and passing through the brachial plexus of nerves and under the levator anguli scapuhe ; 11, on the scalenus anticus, points to the inferior thyroid artery, near the place where the ascending cervical artery is given off; the phrenic nerve lies on the muscle to its outer side ; i, the suprasternal twig of the suprascapular artery.390 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. thyroid axis. The cardiac nerves of the left side, descending from the neck, are close to the artery, and the cord of the sympathetic is behind. The second part op the subclavian artery, the short portion con- cealed by the anterior scalenus muscle, forms the highest part of the arch described by the vessel across the root of the neck. Somewhat less deeply placed than the first part, it is covered by the sterno-mastoid and anterior scalenus muscles, with layers of cervical fascia. Behind and below, it lies on the pleura. Fetation to veins and nerves.—The subclavian vein is farther forwards and lower than the artery, and is separated from it by the anterior scalenus muscle. The phrenic nerve, which descends obliquely inwards over that muscle, crosses the first part of the subclavian artery of the left side close to the muscle, while on the right side, not having quite reached the margin of the muscle at the level of the artery, it is usually separated by the muscle from the second part of the artery. The third part of the subclavian artery lies for its greater part in a small triangular space, the sides of which are formed by the omo- hyoid muscle and clavicle, and the base by the anterior scalenus. The artery is nearer to the surface here than elsewhere, being covered only by the platysma and layers of cervical fascia, but towards its termination it becomes deeper, sinking under the clavicle and the subclavius muscle. It rests upon the first rib ; and behind it is the scalenus medius. Fetation to veins.—The subdavian vein is still anterior to, and lower than, the artery. The external jugutar vein crosses in front of the artery, and receives on the outer side from the shoulder the two veins which ac- company the suprascapular and transverse cervical arteries. These veins in some cases form a sort of plexus over the artery. Fetation to nerves.—Above the vessel are placed the nerves of the brachial plexus, the lowest trunk, formed by the union of the last cervical and the first dorsal nerves, being behind and in close contact with it. The small nerve to the subclavius passes down over the artery, and the space which lodges the artery is crossed in front by the descending super- ficial branches from the cervical plexus of nerves. Branches.—Four branches are commonly described as arising from each subclavian artery. Of these, three, namely, the vertebral, the in- ternal mammary, and the thyroid axis, usually spring close together from the first part of the artery, near the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle ; while the fourth branch, the superior intercostal, is generally found also internal to that muscle on the left side, but arising under cover of it, from the second part of the artery, on the right. The vertebral artery springs from the upper and back part of the subclavian, and ascends in the neck to reach the interior of the skull; the internal mammary proceeds from the lower side of the vessel, and descends into the fore part of the chest and abdomen ; the thyroid axis arises from the front of the artery, and divides into three branches, one of which, the inferior thyroid, is distributed in the fore part of the neck, while the other two, the suprascapular and the transverse cervical, pass outwards across the neck to the shoulder ; lastly, the superior intercostal and deep cervical arise by a common stem from the back part of the artery, and pass into the upper part of the thoracic wall and the posterior muscles of the neck. The deep cervical is reckoned by some writers as a fifth branch of the subclavian artery, but it usually rises in common with the superior intercostal artery.391 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. Another branch, in the majority of instances, arises from the second or third part of the artery. This is generally the posterior scapular artery, a branch which otherwise is derived from the transverse cervical, one of the divisions of the thyroid axis. Fig. 242. Fig. 242.—Origin of the branches of the right subclavian artery (modified from Wyeth). (G. I>. T.) Natural size. v, vertebral artery ; i.t, inferior thyroid artery, giving off a.c, the ascending cervical; s.c, superficial cervical artery; ss, suprascapular artery ; the last three arising together by the thyroid axis ; i.m, internal mammary artery ; s.i, superior intercostal artery,from which arises d.c, the deep cervical; p.s, posterior scapular artery. The thick dotted lines indicate the position of the inner and outer borders of the anterior scalenus muscle. Varieties.—The variations in origin of the subclavian arteries have been considered along with the peculiarities of the arch of the aorta. Course and connections.—The height to which these vessels reach in the neck is liable to some variation. Most commonly the second part of the artery is placed from half to three-quarters of an inch above the clavicle (the shoulder being depressed to the full extent), but it is sometimes, especially on the right side, placed as high as an inch, or even an inch and a half above the level of the bone ; or on the other hand it may be entirely under cover of the clavicle. The third part of the artery is not unfrequently concealed by the posterior belly of the omo-liyoid, when that muscle has an attachment to the clavicle (p. 292) or is bound down to the bone by the fascia. More rarely the artery is covered by an unusually wide clavicular attachment of the trapezius (p. 191). Occasionally the subclavian artery perforates the anterior scalenus muscle, and in rarer cases it has been found altogether in front of the muscle, and close to the subclavian vein. The vein has also been seen to pass with the artery behind the scalenus muscle ; and two or three cases are recorded in which the positions of the artery and vein were reversed. Branches.—The places of origin of the several branches of the subclavian artery are subject to frequent slight variations, and it occasionally happens thatSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 392 one or more of the first three branches are moved considerably inwards from their usual position, or outwards to another division of the subclavian. Some- times two, and much more rarely three, branches arise from the third part of the vessel. A small muscular and spinal branch is frequently given off from the second part of the artery. BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1. Vertebral artery (iii).—The vertebral artery arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian, on the right side generally about three- quarters of an inch from its commencement, on the left side from the bend formed by the main trunk as it turns outwards at the root of the neck, and, passing upwards and a little backwards and outwards, enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra. It then ascends in a vertical direction through the series of foramina in the transverse processes, as far as the upper border of the axis, where it inclines outwards to reach the corresponding foramen of the atlas ; after passing through that aperture it winds backwards and inwards in the groove on the neural arch of the atlas, and, piercing the dura mater, Fig. 243. the deep cervical artery, arising in common with 6', the superior- artery, emerging from beneath the sterno-mastoid. Fig. 243.—Deep dis- section OP THE NECK, SHOWING THE OIIIGIN AND COURSE OP THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY (from Tiedemann). I a, Upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; its clavicular part is di- vided below; b, spinous process of axis ; c, su- perior oblique muscle ; d, on the inferior oblique muscle, points by a line to the posterior arch of the atlas; e, semispinalis colli ; /, placed on the longus colli, points to the transverse process of the sixth cervical verte- bra ; y, on the first rib, points to the scalenus anticus muscle, cut near its attachment; 1, in- nominate artery; 2, right common carotid ; 3, right subclavian ; below it, the origin of the internal mammary artery; above it, 4, the thyroid axis ; 5, 5, ver- tebral artery, passing up through the transverse processes and giving- branches to the muscles; 5', on the rectus posticus major, points to its hori- zontal part on the arch of the atlas ; 6, points to intercostal; 7, occipitalVERTEBRAL ARTERY. 393 enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Finally, it proceeds upwards and forwards, turning round from the side to the front of the medulla oblongata, and unites with the vessel of the opposite side, at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its commencement, the vertebral artery lies behind the internal jugular, as well as its oavu companion vein, and on approaching the vertebrae it passes between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus muscles. On the left side, the thoracic duct crosses in front of the artery from within outwards. While within the foramina of the cervical vertebrae, the artery is accompanied by a plexus of the sympathetic nerve and by the verte- bral vein : the cervical nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina pass behind it. The suboccipital nerve lies beneath it in the groove of the atlas, and at that point the artery is covered by the superior oblique muscle. Within the skull it turns round the side of the medulla oblongata, between the origin of the hypoglossal and the anterior root of the sub- occipital nerves, and it then lies between the anterior surface of the medulla oblongata and the basilar process of the occipital bone. Branches.—A. In the neclc.—(«) Spinal branches. These are several small offsets which pass through the intervertebral foramina into the spinal canal, and there divide, each into two branches ; one of these passes along the. roots of the spinal nerves, supplying the spinal cord and its mem- branes, and anastomoses with the other spinal arteries ; the other branch ramifies on the back part of the bodies of the vertebrae in the same manner as similar branches derived from the intercostal and lumbar arteries (see p. 447). (&) Muscular branches of variable size are distributed to the deep- seated cervical muscles, and anastomose with the ascending cervical, deep cervical and occipital arteries. B. Within the cranium.—(a) The posterior meningeal artery, sometimes double, is a small branch which arises opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies beneath the dura mater in the lower occipital fossa, and in the falx cerebelli. (b) The posterior spinal artery inclines downwards on the medulla oblongata to reach the back part of the spinal cord ; aided by reinforce- ments from small arteries which ascend upon the nerves through the intervertebral foramina, it may be traced as a minute tortuous vessel, or rather a series of little inosculating vessels, lying behind the roots of the nerves, as far as the lower end of the cord, where it communicates with the lower part of the anterior spinal artery. (c) The anterior spinal artery, somewhat larger than the preceding, arises near the end of the vertebral artery, and descends obliquely on the front of the medulla oblongata. Near the foramen magnum, it unites with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, so as to form a single trunk, which descends along the middle line in front of the spinal cord, forming the upper part or commencement of the anterior median artery of the cord. This anterior spinal branch of the vertebral artery supplies only the upper part of the cord ; the remainder being provided with a series 5f small arteries, which are derived in the neck from the vertebral and ascending cervical arteries, in the back from the intercostals, and below this from the lumbar, ilio-lumbar, and lateral sacral arteries. These small vessels enter the spinal canal at irregular intervals through394 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. the intervertebral foramina, and, passing along the anterior roots of the nerves, communicate with each other along the middle line by means of ascending and descending branches ; so that, by a succession of anasto- moses, a slender single vessel extends from the one end to the other of the cord. This vessel, or chain of inosculating vessels, supplies the pia mater and the substance of the cord—some branches entering the anterior median fissure. At the lower end of the spinal cord it ends as a slender branch continued downwards on the filum terminale. On a part of the spinal cord near the lower end, and in front of the pos- terior roots of the nerves, may be found another small artery, also derived from the branches ascending on the posterior roots of the nerves. (d) The (;posterior) inferior cerebellar artery (vi), the largest of the branches, arises from the vertebral near the pons, and sometimes from the basilar artery : it turns backwards and outwards over the restiform body and near the lower lateral margin of the fourth ventricle, to enter the fore part of the vallecula, where it divides into two branches. One of these runs backwards in the sulcus between the cerebellar hemisphere and the inferior vermiform process, its offsets being distributed mainly to the latter structure, and anastomosing with those of the opposite artery; while the other inclines outwards and ramifies on the under surface of the hemisphere as far as its outer border, over which the ultimate divisions of both branches anastomose with those of the superior cerebellar artery. Before dividing, this artery gives branches to the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. Varieties.— Origin.—While the vertebral artery arises, in the great majority of cases, on the right side from the subclavian between half an inch and an inch from its beginning, and on the left side from the same trunk as it bends out- wards, its range of origin extends over the whole of the first part of the subclavian artery. In those cases in which the right subclavian artery is given off inde- pendently from the posterior part of the arch of the aorta, the right vertebral artery sometimes arises from the common carotid of the same side. In some rare instances the right vertebral artery has been seen arising from the aorta, between the right subclavian and carotid (p. 358), between the innominate and left carotid (Meckel), or beyond the left subclavian artery and passing to its usual place behind the oesophagus (Hyrtl, Struthers). The left vertebral artery is not unfrequently derived from the aorta, in which case it generally arises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, but sometimes it is the last of the branches from the arch. Either vertebral artery may as a very rare occurrence arise by two roots, both proceeding from the subclavian artery, or one from the subclavian and one from the aorta or from the inferior thyroid artery. One example of three roots to a vertebral artery (right) is recorded (R. Quain, pi. 24, fig. 2). Course.—The vertebral artery not unfrequently enters the foramen of the fifth or fourth cervical vertebra ; more rarely the third, or even the second. On the other hand, it has been seen to enter the foramen of the seventh vertebra. Size.—One vertebral artery, more frequently the left, is sometimes much larger than the other. Branches.—The vertebral artery has been found, though very rarely, to give off the inferior thyroid or superior intercostal artery. The inferior cerebellar artery is often wanting on one side. The basilar artery (iii), the single trunk formed by the junction of the right and left vertebral arteries, extends from the lower to the upper border of the pons Varolii, along the median groove of which it lies under cover of the arachnoid. The length of this artery is thereforeTHYROID AXIS. 395 about equal to the depth of the pons, at the upper border of which it ends by dividing- into the two posterior cerebral arteries. Branches.—Besides numerous small branches to the substance of the pons, the basilar artery gives off the following (a) The transverse arteries, several on each side, pass directly outwards. One, the auditory artery, accompanies the nerve of the same name into the internal auditory meatus and supplies the labyrinth of the ear. (b) The anterior (inferior) cerebellar arteries (vi) pass backwards, one on each side, to the anterior part of the under surface of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the inferior cerebellar branches of the vertebral arteries. (c) The superior cerebellar arteries (v) arise so close to the bifurcation of the basilar, that this artery is often described as dividing into four branches. Each one passes outwards immediately below the third nerve, and, entering the groove between the pons Yarolii and the crus cerebri, turns backwards round the latter, close to the fourth nerve, to reach the upper surface of the cerebellum, where it divides into branches. Of these some extend outwards, and one or more backwards along the superior vermiform process, to reach the circumference of the cerebellum, where they anastomose with the branches of the inferior cerebellar artery; while others run inwards to supply the vermiform process and the valve of Vieussens, and in part the velum interpositum. The posterior cerebral artery (iv), passes outwards, on each side, parallel to the superior cerebellar artery, and separated from it at its origin by the third nerve, which comes forwards between the two vessels. It turns backwards round the crus cerebri, and then runs outwards and upwards on the under surface of the posterior part of the cerebrum, passing near the hinder extremity of the corpus callosum. Close to its origin it gives off several small branches to the posterior perforated spot, and as it turns backwards it is joined by the posterior communicating artery, thus taking part (as described at p. 386) in the formation of the circle of Willis. It then gives off one or two posterior choroid arteries to the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses, and its terminal branches supply the occipital lobe and the lower and inner parts of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum (see p. 387). Varieties-—The basilar artery is originally formed by the coalescence of two separate vertebral arteries, and traces of a septum are sometimes found in its interior (Davy, “ Researches,” &c., vol. i, p. 301). The occurrence of a perfora- tion of the vessel, which is occasionally seen, may be likewise attributed to the incomplete fusion of the two arteries. The posterior cerebral artery is occasionally given off on one side from the internal carotid, by an enlargement of the posterior communicating branch. 2. Thyroid axis (ii).—The thyroid axis springs from the fore part of the subclavian artery, close to the inner side of the anterior scalenus muscle. It is a short thick trunk, and receives the name of “ axis,” because, two or three lines from its origin, it divides into branches, which diverge in different directions : these are—the inferior or ascend- ing thyroid, the suprascapular, and a third branch, which is either the transverse cervical, or one of the branches into which that artery, when present, divides, viz., the superficial cervical. Varieties.—The thyroid axis has been seen arising beyond the scalenus anti- cus muscle. It may be associated at its origin with another branch ; most fre-396 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. quently with the internal mammary ; rarely with the vertebral, superior inter- costal, or deep cervical artery. In some cases the axis is absent, the three branches arising separately from the subclavian. A. The inferior thyroid artery (iv) (fig. 246, p. 405), passes directly upwards in front of the vertebral artery, and after a short course bends in- wards and downwards behind the sheath of the large cervical vessels, and also behind the sympathetic nerve, the middle cervical ganglion of which, when present, often rests upon this vessel. The artery then makes another curve in the opposite direction, and is distributed to the lower part of the thyroid body. Its branches communicate freely with those of the superior thyroid artery, and with the corresponding artery of the other side. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches to the scalenus anticus, longus colli, inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and the infrahyoid muscles. (b) The ascending cervical branch (v) arises at the point where the inferior thyroid turns inwards behind the carotid artery; it proceeds upwards, close to the phrenic nerve, in the groove between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major, giving muscular branches to both, and a few which pass transversely outwards across the neck. These branches communicate with others sent outwards from the vertebral artery. To the spinal canal the ascending cervical artery sends two or three spinal branches, which enter the intervertebral foramina along the cervical nerves, and assist in supplying the bodies of the vertebrae, and the spinal cord and its membranes. (c) An inferior laryngeal branch of irregular size ascends with the recurrent nerve to the back of the larynx, and is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane in that situation. (d) Tracheal branches ramify over the trachea, and anastomose below with the bronchial arteries. (e) One or more oesophageal branches descend upon the oesophagus into the chest, and anastomose with the oesophageal branches of the aorta. Varieties.—Tlie inferior thyroid artery occasionally arises as an independent branch from the subclavian ; rarely from the common carotid or the vertebral. Instances have occurred—very rarely, however—of the presence of two inferior thyroid arteries, one passing over the common carotid artery. The inferior thy- roid artery varies much in size, and occasionally is altogether wanting. The several thyroid arteries are developed in inverse proportion to one another, dimi- nution or absence of one being compensated for by an increased size of the others, or by an accessory artery, the thyroidca ima (p. 360). The ascending cervical artery is occasionally derived from the subclavian or from one of the other branches of that vessel, as from the transverse cervical or the suprascapular. It is sometimes much larger than usual, and takes the place of the occipital artery. A branch from it not unfrequently compensates for the small size of the deep cervical artery. B. The suprascapular artery (iv) (transverse scapular, or transverse humeral) arises from the thyroid axis, and courses from within outwards, being deeply placed at the root of the neck. At first it descends obliquely towards the clavicle, resting upon the scalenus anticus, and covered by the sterno-mastoid muscle ; it then crosses the subclavian artery, and runs transversely outwards behind and parallel with the clavicle to the upper border of the scapula, where it is joined by the suprascapular nerve. Here the nerve passes through the suprascapular notch and beneath the ligament of the same name, but the artery usually crosses over that band, and inclining downwards enters the supraspinous fossa. It gives off397 SUPRASCAPULAR ARTERY. brandies which ramify beneath the snpraspinatus muscle, and is then continued down behind the neck of the scapula into the infraspinous fossa, where it terminates by anastomosing with the dorsal and posterior scapular arteries. Fig. 244. — The Fig. 244. ARTERIES OF THE SHOULDER AND DORSUM OF THE SCAPULA, WITH THEIR ANASTO- MOSES (from Tiede- mann). g a, sterno-mastoid muscle ; b, trapezius turned inwards; c, splenius capitis, and below it splenius colli ; d, levator an- guli scapula: ; e, ser- ratus posticus su- perior ; /, rhom- boideus minor, and g, rhomboideus major, divided near the base of the scapula; h, teres major ; i, teres minor ; Tc, long head of the triceps ; l, serratus magnus ; m, latissimus dorsi ; n, deep surface of the deltoid muscle turned down ; o, portion of the infraspinatus muscle attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus, the rest having been re- moved from the in- fraspinous fossa ; 1, occipital artery, ap- pearing between the trapezius and sterno- mastoid muscles ; 2, superficial cervical artery; 2', 2', pos- terior scapular ar- tery ; 2 +, its su- praspinous branch ; 3, suprascapular artery ; 3', the same after passing into the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with 4, the dorsal branch of the sub- scapular artery ; 4', descending branch of the dorsal scapular ; 4", thoracic branches of the subscapular artery ; 5, posterior circum- flex artery, emerging from the quadrangular space, and sending branches upwards to the shoulder-joint, forwards round the humerus, and downwards into the deltoid muscle ; 6, anastomosis of the acromial branches of the suprascapular and acromio-thoracic arteries.398 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches to the sterno-mastoid, subclavius, and other neighbouring muscles. (6) A suprasternal twig crosses the inner end of the clavicle and is distributed to the skin at the upper and mesial part of the chest. (c) The supraacromial branch passes outwards through the attach- ment of the trapezius to reach the surface of the acromion, on which it ramifies, anastomosing with offsets from the acromio-thoracic artery. (d) A small subscapular branch, given off as the artery passes over the notch, anastomoses with the posterior scapular and subscapular arteries in the subscapular fossa and substance of the subscapularis muscle. (e) Branches enter the dorsal scapular muscles, the hone and shoulder- joint. Varieties.—The suprascapular artery has in some cases been observed to spring independently from the second or third part of the subclavian, or to arise from that vessel by a common trunk with the transverse cervical, or more rarely with the internal mammary. It has also been found to proceed from the axillary artery, and from the suhscapular branch of that vessel. This artery is sometimes very small, in which case the deficiency is generally supplied by a branch of the posterior scapular. 0. The transverse cervical artery, the third branch of the thyroid axis, passes outwards a short distance above the clavicle, and therefore higher than the suprascapular artery. It crosses over the scaleni muscles and the brachial plexus, sometimes passing between the nerves of the latter, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle. Beneath the upper margin of the trapezius, and near the outer edge of the levator anguli scapulae, it divides into two branches, the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular. The superficial cervical artery (v), ascends beneath the trapezius, and dis- tributes branches to that muscle, the levator anguli scapulae, and splenius muscles, as well as to the cervical glands and the integument. When the posterior scapular arises separately from the subclavian, the name superficial cervical may be given to the remaining part of the transverse cervical artery. The posterior scapular artery (iv), whether arising from the transverse cervical artery or directly from the subclavian, passes backwards to the upper angle of the scapula, under cover of the levator anguli scapulae, and then, changing its direction, runs downwards beneath the rhomboid muscles, as far as the inferior angle of that bone. It anastomoses freely on both surfaces of the scapula with the divisions of the suprascapular and subscapular arteries ; and supplies branches to the rhomboids, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi muscles, communicating at the same time with the posterior branches of some of the intercostal arteries. Near the upper angle of the scapula this artery gives off a considerable supraspinous branch, which ramifies on the surface of the supraspinatus and supplies that muscle together with the overlying portion of the tra- pezius and skin. Varieties.—The transverse cervical branch of the thyroid axis not unfre- quently consists solely of the superficial cervical artery ; and it often happens that the vessel derived from the thyroid axis is very small, and represents only in part the superficial cervical artery, a large vessel being given off from the second or third part of the subclavian and dividing near the levator anguli scapulae into two branches, of which one ascends and represents the larger por-399 INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. tion of the superficial cervical artery, while the other forms the posterior scapular. The transverse cervical artery is sometimes derived directly from the subclavian, beneath or even beyond the scalenus anticus muscle. The? transverse or super- ficial cervical sometimes gives off the ascending cervical artery. When the superficial cervical is separated from the posterior scapular, it some- times arises from other sources than the thyroid axis, as from the suprascapular or the subclavian artery. Fig. 245.—Dissection of the anterior THORACIC AND ABDOMINAL WALL, TO SHOW THE ANASTOMOSES OF THE INTERNAL MAMMARY, INTERCOSTAL, AND EPIGASTRIC arteries (slightly altered from Tiede- mann). (A.T.) | The fore part of the serratus magnus, the external and internal oblique, and the rectus abdominis muscles have been re- moved ; 1, upon the subclavius muscle, points to the first part of the axillary artery, giving rise to the acromio-thoracic artery, which is cut short ; 2, upon the pectoralis minor, points to the lower part of the ax- illary artery and vein ; 3, long thoracic artery ; 4, on the cartilage of the first rib, the upper part of the internal mammary artery; 4', the lower part of the same artery, giving its abdominal branch behind the cartilage of the seventh rib ; 5, in the fourth intercostal space, the anastomosis of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries ; 6, perforating branches of the internal mammary artery sending offsets over the front of the sternum ; 7, on the transversalis muscle immediately above the internal abdominal ring, points to the last part of the external iliac artery, from which are seen rising, 8, the deep epigastric artery, and 9, the deep circumflex iliac ; 10, the anastomosis of the epigastric with the ab- dominal branch of the internal mammary artery; 11, spermatic cord and cremasteric twig of the epigastric artery ; 12, femoral artery ; 13, femoral vein ; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the crural ring. 3. Internal mammary ar- tery (iv).—The internal mammary artery, remarkable for its length and the number of its branches, arises from the lower and fore part of the subclavian, opposite the thyroid axis. It runs at first for- wards and downwards, as well as slightly inwards, to the hinder surface of the cartilage of the first rib, lying between this and the sac of the pleura; from this point it descends vertically behind the costal cartilages, about half an inch Fig. 245. from the border of the sternum, asSUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 400 far as to the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, where it ends by dividing into two branches, which are known as the musculo- phrenic and superior epigastric arteries. The internal mammary artery is covered at its origin by the subclavian vein ; and as it passes forwards it arches round the upper end of the innominate vein, and is crossed from without inwards by the phrenic nerve. In the chest it has the costal cartilages and the internal intercostal muscles in front, and lies at first upon the pleura ; but lower down it is separated from the pleura by the triangularis sterni muscle. This artery has two companion veins, which are united into a single trunk at the upper part of the chest. Branches.—(a) The superior ‘phrenic artery or comes nervi phrenici, a very slender but long branch, arises from the artery at the upper part of the thorax, and descends, in company with the phrenic nerve, between the pleura and pericardium, to the diaphragm. It gives small offsets to the pericardium, and its terminal branches supply the fore part of the diaphragm and anastomose with the inferior phrenic (from the aorta) and musculo-phrenic arteries. (b) The mediastinal branches, of very small size, ramify in the loose connective tissue of the mediastinal space, and supply the thymus body or its remains. Pericardial branches are given off to the pericardium ; and branches named sternal are supplied to the triangularis sterni muscle, and to the posterior surface of the sternum. These small vessels form with offsets from the superior phrenic, bronchial, and intercostal arteries a fine wide-meshed network beneath the pleura, to which Turner has given the name of suhpleural mediastinal plexus (Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., Jan., 18G5). (c) The anterior intercostal arteries, two in each of the upper six spaces, arise from the internal mammary, either separately, or by a trunk common to the two, which soon divides. The arteries pass outwards, at first between the pleura and the internal intercostal muscles, and afterwards between the two layers of intercostals ; they lie, one near the upper and one near the lower rib, and inosculate with the corresponding branches derived from the aortic intercostals. These branches supply the inter- costal and pectoral muscles, and give some offsets to the mamma and integument. (d) The anterior or perforating branches pass forwards through the upper six intercostal spaces, and turning outwards ramify partly in the pectoralis major, and partly in the integument on the front of the chest. Those placed nearest to the mammary gland snpply that organ, and in the female they are of comparatively large size, especially during lactation. Some small offsets ramify on the sternum. (e) The musculophrenic artery, the outer of the two branches into which the internal mammary divides, inclines downwards and outwards behind the cartilages of the asternal ribs, perforating the attachment of the diaphragm at the eighth or ninth cartilage, and becoming gradually reduced in size as it reaches the tenth or eleventh intercostal space. It gives branches backwards into the diaphragm ; others, which pass out- wards to form the anterior intercostals of the lower spaces, and are dis- posed precisely like those which are derived higher up from the main trunk ; and some which descend into the abdominal muscles. (/) The abdominal branch, or superior epigastric artery, descends between the sternal and costal portions of the diaphragm into the wall of the abdomen, where it lies at first behind the rectus, between theSUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. 401 muscle and its sheath ; afterwards, entering the muscle, the artery terminates in its substance, and anastomoses with the epigastric artery from the external iliac. It supplies branches to the broad muscles of the belly, to the skin, and to the diaphragm ; one offset runs forwards upon the front of the ensiform process, and anastomoses with that of the opposite side ; and small twigs pass backwards into the falciform liga- ment of the liver and form communications with the hepatic artery. Varieties.—The internal mammary artery is sometimes found connected at its origin with the thyroid axis, or with one or both of the scapular arteries—these being detached from the thyroid. It occasionally springs from the second or third part of the subclavian artery, the latter being the more frequent position of the two. In very rare instances it has been found arising from the axillary, the innominate, or the aorta. The trunk of the artery has been seen to cross the front of the fifth (Hyrtl) or sixth (G. D. T.) costal cartilage. An unusual branch,' of considerable size, occasionally comes off from the upper part of this artery, and passes downwards and outwards, crossing several of the ribs, on their inner surface, about mid-way between the spine and sternum. The internal mammary artery may likewise furnish a bronchial branch. 4. Superior intercostal artery (iv).—This artery arises from the back part of the subclavian, generally behind the anterior scalenus on the right side, and immediately internal to that muscle on the left. Taking its course backwards and at first slightly upwards, it speedily gives off the deep cer vical branch, and then bends downwards in front of the neck of the first rib, to be distributed in the first and second inter- costal spaces. On the neck of the first rib, the artery is situated between the first thoracic ganglion of the sympathetic internally and the anterior primary division of the first dorsal nerve externally. The branches to the first and second intercostal spaces are distributed in the same way as the intercostal arteries derived from the aorta (p. 431), and that in the second space is frequently joined by an offset from the first aortic intercostal. Varieties.—The superior intercostal artery has been found, in a few instances, to proceed from the vertebral artery or from the thyroid axis. It has also been observed to descend between the necks of one or two ribs and the transverse pro- cesses of the corresponding dorsal vertebrae ; and in one case, after arising from the vertebral artery, it passed in addition through the foramen in the transverse pro- cess of the last cervical vertebra (R. Quain, pi. 22, fig. 5). This artery is sometimes, though very rarely, wanting. On the other hand it may be larger than usual, and supply three or even four spaces. It has been seen to furnish a lateral branch descending on the inner surface of the ribs, similar to that occasionally derived from the internal mammary artery (Blandin, “ Anat. d. Regions,” 2nd Ed., 250). The deep cervical artery (fig. 243, 6), often described as a separate branch of the subclavian, arises in most cases from the superior inter- costal. Resembling the posterior branch, of an aortic intercostal artery, it passes backwards in the interval between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the first rib, to reach the posterior aspect of the neck, where it ascends under cover of the complexus muscle, and resting upon the semispinalis colli, to the level of the axis. Its branches supply the surrounding muscles, and anastomose with offsets of the vertebral, the cervical branch of the occipital, and the ascending cervical arteries. Varieties.—The deep cervical artery sometimes arises separately from the sub- clavian ; more rarely from the posterior scapular. It occasionally passes back between the sixth and seventh cervical vertebras, and sometimes between the VOL. i. D n402 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. first and second dorsal, or even below the second. It has been seen to pass between the first rib and the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra. This artery is not unfrequently supplemented by a branch of the ascending cervical artery, turning backwards between two of the cervical transverse processes ; or by an enlarged dorsal branch from the superior intercostal artery in the first space ; or in rare instances by an offset from the posterior scapular or inferior thyroid artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. The depth of the subclavian artery, its intimate and numerous connections with important parts, and the large size of its branches, render operations on this vessel peculiarly difficult. The third division of the artery, situated beyond the anterior scalenus muscle, is the part which is most favourably circumstanced for the application of a ligature, inasmuch as the vessel is here nearest to the surface, and the spot selected is remote from the origin of the large branches. The artery is generally easy of access above the clavicle while the parts are in their natural position, but when they are displaced by an aneurism in the axilla, the clavicle may be so much elevated by the tumour as to be placed in front of the vessel, or even above it; and such a condition may require special modifications of the operation. In the operation of passing a ligature round the third part of the subclavian artery, an incision is made a little above and parallel to the middle third of the clavicle, and in doing this, if the integument be drawn downwards over the clavicle, the parts covering the bone may be divided with freedom. Along with the integument, the platysma and some descending superficial nerves are divided in this incision, but no vessel is endangered, except in those rare instances in which the cephalic vein or the external jugular crosses over the clavicle. It will, in some cases, be an advantage to add a short vertical incision, directed downwards to the middle of the horizontal one. Should the clavicular attachment of the stemo-mastoid or trapezius muscle be broader than usual, so that the interval between the two is insufficient for the farther steps of the operation, a portion of one, or even of both muscles, must be divided. The external jugular vein, joined by the veins from the shoulder, is usually over the artery, and it must be held aside, or it may be necessary to divide it. If divided, the lower end of the vessel requires the application of a ligature as well as the upper one, in consequence of the reflux of blood from the sub- clavian vein, and the danger of air being drawn into the circulation. The omo- hyoid muscle will also be drawn upwards if necessary. The artery is now covered only by the areolar tissue of the supraclavicular fossa, and a layer of the deep cervical fascia (upper part of the axillary sheath), and in making the deeper dissection to reach the vessel, it will be best to divide these structures cautiously with a director or some blunt instrument, in order to avoid wounding the veins which pass inwards above the clavicle. At this stage of the operation the anterior scalenus muscle should be sought for, as it forms the best guide to the artery. This will be found descending nearly vertically behind the clavi- cular head of the sterno-mastoid, and if the finger be carried down along the outer border of the muscle, it will pass over the front of the artery, and reach the more or less prominent scalene tubercle on the upper surface of the first rib, which in cases of difficulty is of service as a farther guide to the vessel. The part of the artery to which the ligature is to be applied, is placed above, and at the same time somewhat to the outer side of and behind the tubercle. The nerves of the brachial plexus are here very close to the artery, and great care is necessary in separating the lowest trunk from the vessel. The artery is to be distinguished by its becoming flattened beneath the finger, while the nerves have a rounded cord-like feel, and (in the living subject) by its pulsation, although it is to be observed that this movement is frequently transmitted to the adjacent nervous trunk owing to the close connection of the two structures. The needle should be passed from behind forwards (0. Heath) in order to avoid the nerves, as the vein is placed at some little distance below and in front of thisSURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERIES. 403 part of the artery, and ordinarily does not come into view during the operation The nerve to the subclavius may be exposed on the front of the artery, and if so is to be carefully preserved, since it not unfrequently furnishes an accessory root to the phrenic nerve. The latter nerve itself has also been seen crossing the third part of the artery. With reference to the choice of the exact place at which the ligature is to be passed round this part of the artery, it should always be borne in mind that in the majority of cases a considerable branch is given off from the main trunk in the immediate neighbourhood of the outer border of the scalenus muscle. This branch is most frequently the posterior scapular ; but in rarer cases it may be the superficial cervical or suprascapular, or even the internal mammary. The second division of the subclavian artery is the part which rises highest in the neck, and on this account it may be advantageously selected for the applica- tion of a ligature when the vessel is difficult of access beyond the muscle. The chief objections to operating on this part of the artery arise from the contiguity of the large branches, and its close connection with the pleura. The steps of the operation are similar to those described above, but the primary incision is made somewhat farther inwards, and it will be necessary to divide the clavicular head of the sterno-mastoid and the scalenus anticus muscles. In doing this, care must be taken not to injure the anterior jugular vein and the phrenic nerve, and it is farther advisable not to carry the incision through the whole breadth of the scalenus, but to leave the inner portion of the muscle undivided, in order to avoid wounding the internal jugular vein or the branches of the thyroid axis. Difficulties may arise from the occurrence of an unusual position of the artery, as when it passes through the substance of the anterior scalenus, or when it is in front of that muscle ; but such cases are of very rare occurrence. The. first part of the subclavian artery on the left side may be said to be inaccessible for the application of a ligature, in consequence of its depth and its close connection with the lung and other important structures, such as the internal jugular and innominate veins, and the thoracic duct. On the right side, though deeply placed and closely connected with important parts, the first division of the subclavian artery may be tied in the interval between the common carotid artery and the internal jugular vein without extreme difficulty. But inasmuch as the distance between the bifurcation of the innominate on the one hand, and the origin of the vertebral artery on the other, seldom measures more than an inch, and is often much less, the success of the operation is exceedingly doubtful. In order to place a ligature on the portion of the right subclavian artery here referred to, it is necessary to divide the three muscles which cover it, together with the layers of fascia between and beneath them. In doing this the anterior jugular vein must be avoided, and the suprasternal branch of the suprascapular artery will probably require to be secured. In the farther steps of the operation, the exact relations of the artery to the internal jugular vein, the pneumo-gastric nerve, and the pleura, are to be well kept in view. It is to be remembered also that the first part of the right subclavian artery is occasionally more deeply placed than usual; as in those cases in which it springs from the back part of the aortic arch, or, more frequently, when it merely sepa- rates from the innominate behind the carotid. The circulation in the subclavian artery may be arrested by pressure directed backwards and downwards in the supraclavicular fossa, so as to compress the third part of the vessel against the subjacent first rib. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery, blood is supplied to the upper limb through the anastomoses upon the scapula between the suprascapular, posterior scapular and subscapular arteries, and those formed by branches of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. After ligature of the first part of the artery, blood is conveyed to the distal portion of the trunk mainly by the vertebral artery, to a less extent by the inferior thyroid, internal mammary and superior intercostal arteries: the axillary artery receives blood also through the anastomoses formed by its thoracic branches, and the fore part of the thoracic wall is supplied by the intercostal and epigastric arteries. D D 2ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 404 AXILLARY ARTERY (I). The axillary artery is that part of the artery of the upper limb which extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower margin of the teres major muscle. In this course it passes through the axilla, lying to the inner side of the shoulder-joint and upper part of the humerus, and its di- rection varies with the position of the limb, being curved downwards, or upwards, or being straight, according as the arm hangs by the side, or is elevated to a greater or less degree. With the arm raised to the level of the shoulder, a line drawn from the most prominent part of the clavicle to the inner side of the eminence formed by the biceps and coraco- brachialis muscles will indicate the position of the vessel. The axillary artery is crossed in front by the pectoralis minor muscle, and is thus conveniently divided into three parts : the first part lying above the pectoralis minor, the second part being behind that muscle, and the third part beyond it. In the first part of its course the artery is deeply placed, being covered by the pectoralis major, by a quantity of areolar and fatty tissue, and by a prolongation of the costo-coracoid membrane, as well as by the lower part of the subclavius muscle when the shoulder is depressed. This part of the artery is also invested by the axillary sheath, a membranous structure continued downwards from the dee]') cervical fascia (p. 289), and surrounding both the trunks of the vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves. It rests upon the first intercostal space and the first digita- tion of the serratus magnus. The axillary vein lies to the inner side and somewhat in front of the artery, and the cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins cross it to reach the main trunk. The nerves of the brachial plexus are to the outer side, and the posterior thoracic nerve passes down behind it. In the second part of its course the artery is covered in front by the pectoralis major and minor muscles : the vein is on its inner side, and the three cords of the brachial plexus are placed one on the outer side, the second behind, and the third on the inner side, the last intervening between the artery and vein. The third part of the axillary artery is covered anteriorly for the upper half of its extent by the pectoralis major muscle ; in its lower half it is superficial, being placed immediately beneath the deep fascia of the arm, and here the flow of blood in the vessel may be readily controlled by pres- sure directed from within outwards against the humerus. It rests upon the subscapularis muscle and the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major ; and on its outer side is the coraco-brachialis muscle. The axillary vein is still on its thoracic side, and the lower portion of the artery is accompanied also by one or both of the brachial venae comites. The nerves resulting from the division of the brachial plexus are disposed around the artery, as follows, viz., behind are the circumflex and musculo- spiral; to its inner side the ulnar (between the artery and vein), and the small internal cutaneous (internal to the vein); to its outer side the Fig. 246.—The carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries (from Tiedemann). ^ The great pectoral, the sterno-mastoid, and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles have been removed; the front part of the deltoid has been divided near the clavicle. Subclavian artery and its branches.—1, first part of the subclavian artery giving rise to the thyroid axis and internal mammary, and also to +, the vertebral artery; 2, third part of the subclavian artery ; 3, first part of the axillary artery; 4, third part of the axillary artery; 5, commencement of the brachial artery; 6, superficial cervical artery,405 AXILLARY ARTERY. giving off in this instance 6', the ascending cervical branch ; 7, posterior scapular artery, arising from the subclavian behind the scalenus anticus ; 8, acromial branch of the acromio-thoracic ; 9, superior thoracic, in this case of large size ; 10, long thoracic artery below the pectoralis minor muscle ; +, posterior circumflex branch of the axillary artery (the anterior circumflex is seen rising from the opposite side of the same part of the axillary trunk); 11, dorsal scapular artery, passing backwards between the subscapularis and teres major muscles ; 12, continuation of the subscapular artery. For the explana- tion of the references 13 to 27, see p. 374. Fig. 246.ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 406 external cutaneous and median ; while the targe internal cutaneous is usually in front of the artery, and the inner head of the median crosses it obliquely from within outwards. Branches.—The branches of the axillary artery are very variable in their number, size, and mode of origin. They comprise thoracic branches furnished to the muscles of the chest, the subscapular branch to the shoulder, and two circumflex branches to the upper part of the arm. Small unnamed twigs are also given to the serratus magnus, subscapularis and coraco-brachialis muscles, and to the skin. 1. The superior or short thoracic artery is a small branch, which arises near the lower border of the subclavius muscle. It inclines down- wards and inwards across the first intercostal space, and terminates in the two pectoral muscles, giving off also branches which supply the upper part of the serratus magnus and the subjacent intercostal muscles, and anastomose with the intercostal arteries. 2. The acrouiio-thoracic artery, of considerable size, and by far the most constant of the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, arises from its fore part at the upper border of the pectoralis minor muscle, and soon divides into branches which take different directions. (a) The acromial branches pass partly to the deltoid and partly through that muscle to the upper surface of the acromion, and anastomose with the suprascapular and posterior circumflex arteries. (]>) The humeral branch passes down in company with the cephalic vein iu the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, and is distributed to their margins, and to the integument. (c) The thoracic branches are distributed to the serratus magnus and pectoral muscles, and anastomose with the other thoracic arteries. (id) The clavicular branch, very small, passes upwards to the sub- clavius muscle. 3. The long thoracic artery (external mammary) is directed down- wards and inwards, along the lower border of the pectoralis minor, and is distributed to the serratus and pectoral muscles, and to the mamma, forming anastomoses with branches of the intercostal arteries. 4. The alar thoracic branch is a very small vessel and not constant, its place being frequently supplied by branches from the thoracic and subscapular arteries. It is distributed to the lymphatic glands and the fatty tissue in the axilla. 5. The sub scapular artery (iv), the largest branch of the axillary artery, arises near the lower border of the subscapularis muscle, along which it proceeds downwards and backwards, towards the inferior angle of the scapula, accompanied by the long subscapular nerve. It soon becomes considerably diminished in size, owing to its giving off a large branch to the dorsum of the scapula, and it terminates in branches to the subscapularis, serratus magnus, teres major and latissimus dorsi muscles. Its final ramifications anastomose with the Icing thoracic, the intercostal, and the posterior scapular arteries. The dorsal branch leaves the subscapular artery about an inch from its origin, and is commonly larger than the continuation of the vessel. Directed backwards through the triangular interval bounded above by the subscapularis, below by the teres major, and externally by the long head of the triceps muscle, and turning closely round the border of the scapula, which is frequently grooved to receive it, it passes between the teres minor and the bone and ramifies in the infraspinous fossa,BRANCHES OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 407 where it anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries. The dorsal scapular artery gives off, as it passes through the triangular space, one or two slender ventral branches, which ramify in the sub- scapular fossa beneath the subscapularis muscle, and anastomose with twigs from the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; and a con- siderable descending branch which runs in the groove between the origins Fig. 247. — Anasto- moses OF THE AR- TERIES ON THE VEN- TRAL SURFACE OF THE SCAPULA, &C. (from R. Quain). -J- a, coracoid process ; b, tendon of the long head of the biceps; e, capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint ; d, tendon of the latissi- mus dorsi ; e, teres major; A, axillary, and A', brachial ar- tery ; 1, suprascapu- lar artery, giving off, as it passes over the ligament into the su- praspinous fossa, 1', its ventral branch, which descends through the notch and ramifies in the subscapular fossa ; 2, 2, posterior scapular artery ; 2', 2', its ventral branches ; 3, 3, stem of the sub- scapular artery at its origin from the axillary, continued into the dorsal scapular artery, which is turning to the back of the scapula, and gives off, 3', its ventral branch, pro- ceeding to anastomose with the ventral branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; 4, thoracic branch of the subscapular artery ; 5, anterior circumflex artery; 6, posterior circumflex, in this case rising above the subscapular, and passing back through the quadrilateral intermuscular space. of the teres minor and major, supplying both muscles, to the lower angle of the scapula. Small offsets are also furnished to the long head of the triceps and the hinder part of the deltoid muscle. 6. The posterior circumflex artery, a considerable vessel but smaller than the subscapular, immediately below which it arises, is directed backwards in company with the circumflex nerve, passing through the quadrilateral space between the teres muscles, the humerus, and the long head of the triceps, and therefore separated by the last from the dorsal scapular artery. It winds round the humerus, and ter- minates by ramifying in the deltoid muscle, giving branches also to the shoulder-joint, to the long and outer heads of the triceps, and to the skin, and anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and acromio-thoracic arteries, as well as with the superior profunda branch of the brachial. 7. The anterior circumflex artery, much smaller than the posterior, arises nearly opposite that from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes outwards, beneath the inner head of the biceps and the coraco- brachialis muscles, and resting on the fore part of the humerus, until it reaches the bicipital groove. There it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the groove with the long head of the biceps to the408 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. head of the bone and the capsule of the joint; the other continues out- wards, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex branch. Varieties.—Tlie most important variety in the trunk of the axillary artery consists in its giving off a muchlarger branch than usual,—an arrangement which has been observed in the proportion of one out of every ten cases (R. Quain). In one set of cases, this large branch is continued as one of the arteries of the fore- arm ; most frequently the radial (about 1 in 33), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), less frequently a vas aberrans, and very rarely the interosseous artery. In another set of cases, the large branch gives origin to the subscapular, the two circumflex, and the two profunda arteries of the arm ; but sometimes only one of the cir- cumflex, or only one of the deep humeral arteries arises from it. In the second class of cases the divisions of the brachial plexus of nerves surround the common stem of the branches instead of the main vessel. This disposition may with pro- bability be explained by supposing that the stem of the branches was originally the brachial artery, but that in early life it had become obstructed in its distal part, and that there had become developed in its place, as an apparent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of the limb, a vas aberrans, such as is some- times seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting wih one of its branches. The superior thoracic artery is so frequently given off by the acromio-thoracic, that some anatomists have described that as the normal arrangement, giving the common trunk the name of thoracic axis. The long thoracic artery often rises from the acromio-thoracic, or is replaced by enlargement of the normal branches of that artery, and not unfrequently is given off by the subscapular. The subscapular artery is often united at its origin with the posterior circum- flex; and, on the other hand, the dorsal scapular branch sometimes springs directly from the axiflary artery. The posterior circumflex artery is sometimes removed from the axillary to the superior profunda branch of the brachial, in which case it ascends behind the teres major muscle. In another class of cases, not quite so numerous, the pos- terior circumflex gives off one or more branches usually derived from other sources : as for example (placing them in the order of frequency), the anterior cir- cumflex, the superior profunda, the dorsal scapular, the anterior circumflex and superior profunda together, or some other rarer combination of those vessels (R. Quain, op. cit., p. 230). The posterior circumflex is sometimes double ; and so is the anterior, but more seldom. An accessory external mammary branch is not unfrequently present, arising from the axillary beyond the circumflex arteries, and running downwards and inwards to the side of the chest behind the long thoracic. The following branches, usually derived from the subclavian artery, have been seen in rare cases to arise from the axillary, viz., internal mammary, suprascapular, and pos- terior scapular ; as have also the superior profunda, inferior profunda, and anas- tomotic arteries, normally branches of the brachial. The third part of the axillary artery is frequently crossed by a muscular slip (axillary arch) passing- from the latissimus dorsi to the anterior wall of the axilla (p. 193). SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This artery is' usually tied in the third part of its course, as it lies upon the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. The limb having been carried away from the chest, an incision is made parallel to and a little behind the anterior fold of the axilla. On cutting through the deep fascia, the vein is exposed, and by drawing this downwards the artery is brought into view, surrounded by the nerves from the brachial plexus. The ligature is to be passed from within outwards. Another and simpler mode of operating is that recommended by Malgaigne, according to which the incision is made along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and the median nerve then serves as a guide to the artery, while the vein is not exposed. In the rest of its course the artery is so deeply placed, and in such close relation with the vein and nerves, that an operation on the third part of the sub- clavian is both easier and more successful.409 BRACHIAL ARTERY. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the third part of the axillary artery, the circulation in the upper limb is carried on by means of the anastomoses of the posterior circumflex and superior profunda arteries, and of smaller branches of the axillary and brachial arteries in the coraco-brachialis, biceps, and triceps muscles. BRACHIAL ARTERY (II). The brachial or humeral artery, the continuation of the axillary, extends from the lower border of the teres major muscle to about a finger’s breadth below the bend of the elbow, or to a point opposite the inner border of the neck of the radius, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries. The artery gradually inclines from the inner side to the fore part of the limb, lying in the depression along the inner border of the coraco-brachialis and biceps muscles ; and a line drawn on the surface of the arm along this hollow will indicate the course of the vessel. To command the flow of blood through the artery at its upper part Fig. 248.—Dissection of the axilla and inner side of the arm to show the axillary and brachial yessels (from R. Quain). J Portions of the pectoral muscles have been removed so as to expose the axillary vessels : a, insertion, and b, origin of the pectoralis major ; 1, 1, axillary artery ; 1', placed on a part of the sheath of the brachial vessels, and 1", on the lower part of the biceps muscle, point to the brachial artery surrounded by its vense comites ; 2, 2, axillary vein ; 3, 3, basilic vein ; the upper figure is placed on the triceps muscle, the lower on the fascia near the junction of the ulnar veins ; on the basilic vein are seen the ramifications of the internal cutaneous nerve ; +, +, median nerve ; 4, on the deltoid, and 4', near the clavicular part of the great pectoral muscle, mark the cephalic vein joining the axillary vein ; 5, 5, placed on the divided portions of the pectoralis minor, point to the origin and branches of the acromio-thoracic artery ; 6, placed on a group of axillary glands, indicates the alar thoracic and subscapular vessels ; 7, placed on the trunk of the axillary vein, points to one of the brachial vensa eomites, which, being joined by the other higher up, passes into the axillary vein ; the ulnar nerve is seen passing behind the basilic vein towards the inner condyle; near 1, placed on the coraco-brachialis muscle, is seen the musculo-cutaneous nerve before it jiasses through that muscle ; near 2, placed on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle, a portion of the nerve of Wrisberg.410 AllTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. pressure should be directed outwards, while over the lower end of the vessel the pressure should be made from before backwards. The brachial artery lies beneath the integument and fascia of the arm as far as the bend of the elbow, where it sinks deeply in the interval between the pronator teres and supinator longus muscles, and is covered by the semilunar fascia of the biceps. It rests at first, for a short distance, on the long head of the triceps, the musculo-spiral nerve and the superior profunda artery intervening, and then on the inner head of the same muscle ; at the middle of the arm it crosses the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and in the rest of its course it lies on the brachialis anticus. On its outer side it is in apposition first with the coraco-brachialis, and afterwards and for the greater part of its length with the biceps, the inner border of one or both muscles overlapping it to a greater or less extent according to the muscular development of the individual. Fig. 249.—Superficial dissection of the BLOOD-VESSELS AND NERVES AT THE FRONT OF the elbow (from R. Quain). -J a, two brandies of the internal cutaneous nerve; a' a". descending twigs of the same nerve ; b, placed over the biceps near its insertion and close to the external cutaneous nerve ; b\ branches of this nerve descending along the outer part of the forearm ; 1, placed on the fascia of the arm near the bend of the elbow, above the place where it has been opened to show the lower part of the brachial artery with its venae comites, of which one is entire, marked 2, and the other has been divided ; +, is placed between the artery and the median nerve ; 3, basilic vein ; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein ; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein ; 3', 5, median-basilic vein ; 4', 5, median-cephalic vein. Relation to veins.— Venae comites are in close contact with the brachial artery, short transverse branches of communi- cation passing from one to another, so as at many points to encircle it. The basilic vein is placed to the inner side of the artery, but is separated from it by the deep fascia of the limb in the lower half or more, according to the level at which the vein perforates that membrane ; and at the bend of the elbow the median-basilic vein crosses over the artery, the semilunar fascia of the biceps lying between them. Relation to nerves.—The median nerve descends in contact with the artery, lying on its outer side in the upper half of the arm, directly in front of it below the middle, and on the inner side at the elbow. The large internal cutaneous nerve accompanies the artery, being placed over or to the inner side of the vessel, until it pierces the fascia about the middle of the arm. The ulnar nerve lies on the inner side of the artery as far as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis ; and the musculo-spiral nerve is behind it for a short distance at its upper end. Branches.—In addition to the four named branches which are described7, the superficial volar, which joins it; 8, 8, 8, 8, BRACHIAL ARTERY. Fig. 250.—Superficial view of the arteries of the front of the arm, forearm and hand (from Tiedemann). a, deltoid muscle ; b, biceps ; b', its semilunar fascia ; c, long head of the triceps ; c', its inner head ; cl, pronator teres ; e, flexor carpi radialis ; f, palmaris longus ; /', its tendon spreading in the upper part of the palmar fascia, from which, on the inner side, the palmaris brevis muscle is seen rising ; g, flexor carpi ulnaris ; h, supinator longus ; i, extensor carpi radialis longior; l, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; m, flexor sub- limis digitorum ; 1, placed on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, the lower part of the axillary artery, continued into the brachial ; 2, superior profunda ; 3, inferior profunda ; 4, anastomotic ; 5, near the division of the brachial artery into ulnar and radial, indicates the origin of the radial recurrent artery; 5', lower part of the radial artery, where it gives off the superficial volar, and turns round the wrist ; 6', the lower part of the ulnar artery, near the place where it passes down to form the superficial palmar arch ; digital branches of the superficial arch ; 9, radialis indicis ; on the thumb are seen the two branches of the princeps pollicis artery. below, and which proceed backwards from the main trunk, the brachial artery gives small offsets to the integument of the arm, and a variable number of muscular branches, Avhich pass forwards and outwards to the coraco-brachialis, biceps and brachial is anticns muscles ; one more constant branch, arising from the upper part of the artery (sometimes from the superior profunda), passes outwards transversely in front of the humerus and terminates in the lower part of the deltoid muscle. 1. The superior profunda artery (iv), the largest of the branches, arises from the posterior part of the brachial artery, just below the border of the teres major, and inclines backwards as it descends to reach the interval between the inner and long heads of the triceps muscle. Accompanying the musculo- spiral nerve, it then winds round the back of the humerus, in the spiral groove, and under cover of the outer head of the triceps. In its course it gives off several branches to the three heads of the triceps; one offset passes upwards between the long and outer heads of that muscle, to anastomose Fi412 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. beneath the hinder part of the deltoid with the posterior circumflex artery ; and another of considerable size descends in the inner head of the triceps, and joins in the anastomoses above the elbow-joint. Much reduced in size as it arrives at the outer side of the humerus, the artery ends by dividing into two branches; the one of which, much the smaller, passes on with the musculo-spiral nerve through the external intermuscular septum, into the interval between the supinator longus and bracliialis anticus muscles, and anastomoses with the recurrent branch of the radial artery ; while the other descends along the back of the external intermuscular septum, and anastomoses behind the outer condyle of the humerus with the posterior interosseous recurrent artery, and across the back of the bone with the inferior profunda and anasto- motic arteries (fig. 253, p. 417). Small twigs are also given to the skin along with the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. 2. The inferior profunda artery, of small size, arises from the brachial artery about the middle of the arm, and is directed to the back part of the inner condyle of the humerus. It descends in company with the ulnar nerve, lying behind the internal intermuscular septum on the inner head of’the triceps muscle, to which it gives branches, and it ends by anastomosing with the posterior recurrent branch of the ulnar artery, and with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. 3. The medullary artery of the humerus is a small branch given off by the brachial about the middle of the arm, or by one of its collateral branches. It inclines downwards, enters the canal in the humerus near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, and is distributed in the interior of the bone. 4. The anastomotic artery is a very constant branch of moderate size. Arising from the brachial artery about two inches above the bend of the elbow, it is directed backwards and inwards on the brachialis anticus muscle, above the inner condyle of the humerus, and, after per- forating the intermuscular septum, turns outwards behind the bone, under cover of the triceps muscle, to form with the superior profunda an arch across the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa. In front of the humerus the anastomotic artery furnishes a branch which ramifies beneath the pronator teres, and anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent branch. Behind the inner condyle another offset joins with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and several branches are given to the joint and the muscles. Varieties.—From their comparative frequency, and surgical interest, the peculiarities of the brachial artery, especially those which affect its trunk, deserve particular attention. Course.—The brachial artery sometimes, though rarely, descends, accompanied by the median nerve, towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and regains its usual position at the bend of the elbow by passing forwards underneath a fibrous arch, from which the pronator teres in these cases arises, and which descends to the inner condyle from the occasional prominence called the supracondylar process. This variety resembles the condition normally existing in the Felidae and many other animals, in which the brachial artery and median nerve are directed forwards and outwards through a supracondylar foramen (see p. 91). Division.—As an extremely rare condition, the artery has been found dividing near its commencement into two vessels, which unite again near the elbow, form- ing a single trunk from which the radial and ulnar arteries are given off in the usual manner. The most frequent change from the ordinary arrangement of the brachial artery is connected with its division into terminal branches.413 VARIETIES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. Out of 481 examples recorded by R. Quain, the vessel was found in 386 to divide at its usual position, a little below the elbow-joint. In one case only (and that complicated by another peculiarity, viz., the existence of a vas aberrans Fig- 251.—High okigin of the radial artery FROM THE BRACHIAL, AND AN ENLARGED MEDIAN ARTERY IN THE FOREARM (from Tiedemann). 5 1, on the tendon of the latissinnis dorsi, points to the upper part of the brachial artery ; 2, the brachial artery (ulnar-interosseous) after giving off the radial; 3, the radial, rising in the upper third of the arm and descending in its usual situation in the forearm ; 3', its superficial volar branch ; 4, the ulnar artery in its usual course, forming at 5, the superficial palmar arch, from which three of the palmar digital arteries and the princeps pollieis take origin ; the radial supplying the branches to the index finger and one side of the middle finger ; 6, superior pro- funda artery ; 7, inferior profunda ; 8, anasto- motic ; 9, recurrent radial ; 10, anterior inter- osseous, giving an unusually large median branch which descends over the wrist to join the super- ficial palmar arch. proceeding from the axillary to the radial j was the place of division lower than usual, being between two and three inches below the elbow-joint. In 64 cases the brachial artery divided above the usual point, at various heights upwards to the lower border of the axilla. The branch prema- turely separated from the rest of the trunk in an early division is, in the proportion of nearly three cases out of four, the radial artery; sometimes the ulnar is the branch given off; that is to say, a branch corre- sponding to the ulnar in its distribution below the middle of the forearm separates from a trunk which afterwards divides into the normal radial artery and the interosseous of the forearm, which last is normally derived from the ulnar artety. Rarely the interosseous of the forearm, or a vas aber- rans is the branch given off. In one instance, found in the dissecting-room of Glasgow University, the posterior inter- osseous artery of the forearm was thus given off. The point at which the division took place in cases of high origin of one or other of the arteries of the forearm, without reference to the particular branch given off, was found to be most frequently in the upper, less so in the lower, and least so in the middle third of the arm. But the early division of the main artery of the upper limb may. as mentioned in connection with the varieties of the axillary artery, take place within the axilla, in which case it Fig. 251. WmARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 414 follows that the brachial portion of the vessel is replaced, throughout its whole extent, by two separate trunks. In 94 cases out of the 481 observed by R. Quain, or about one in five, there were two arteries instead of one in some part of the arm. The position of the two arteries, in these cases, is also of surgical interest. Usually they are close together, occupying the ordinary position of the brachial artery, and the abnormal vessel is generally the more superficial; but the radial artery, when thus given off, in the arm, often arises from the inner side of the brachial, then runs parallel with the larger vessel (the brachial or ulnar-inter- osseous), and crosses over it, occasionally under it, opposite the elbow, still covered by the fascia. The radial artery has also been found, in a few instances, to perforate the fascia near the bend of the elbow, and run immediately under the skin for some distance. As a rare occurrence it passes behind the tendon of the biceps to its usual place in the forearm. When the ulnar is the branch arising high, it often inclines from the position of the brachial, at the lower part of the aim, towards the inner condyle of the humerus. This vessel generally lies beneath the fascia as it descends, and super- ficial to the flexor muscles of the forearm, sometimes however crossing beneath the palmaris longus. It is occasionally placed between the integument and the fascia ; and in one case only was it found by R. Quain beneath the muscles. In one instance occurring in the dissecting-room of Glasgow University, the ulnar artery given off from the brachial at the middle of the arm was observed to descend superficially behind the inner condyle. The interosseous, after arising from the axillary or brachial artery, is commonly placed behind the main trunk, and, on reaching the bend of the elbow, passes deeply between the muscles to its usual position in the forearm. Lastly, when the radial has arisen high in the aim, the remaining portion of the brachial (' ulnar-inter osseous) has occasionally been observed descending, accom- panied by the median nerve, along the intermuscular septum towards the inner condyle of the humerus, and turning forwards round a supracondylar process to gain the usual position at the middle of the bend of the elbow. The interosseous trunk has also been seen to take a similar course when given off in the arm, as has also a vas aberrans joining the ulnar artery (fig. 252). The two arteries occupying the place of the brachial are in some instances con- nected near the bend of the arm by an intervening trank, which proceeds from the larger (or ulnar-interosseous) artery to the radial or the radial recurrent, and varies somewhat in its size, form, and course. The aberrant arteries, “ vasa aberrantia,” alluded to above, are long slender vessels, which arise either from the brachial or the axillary artery, and end by joining one of the arteries of the forearm, or one of their branches. In eight cases out of nine, observed by R. Quain, this unusual vessel joined the radial; in the remaining case it joined the radial recurrent, which arose irregularly from the ulnar artery. Very rarely the aberrant vessel joins the ulnar. This peculiarity may be regarded as an approach to that condition in which there is division of the brachial artery and subsequent connection of its two parts by an intervening branch. In most cases of high division of the brachial artery the condition of the vessels is not the same in the right and left arms. In 61 bodies in which the high division existed, it occurred on one side only in 43 ; on both sides, in different positions, in 13 ; and on both sides, in the same position, in the remaining 5. A median artery of large size (pp. 419, 421) has also been seen arising from the brachial, and in one or two cases this vessel passed downwards over the muscles of the forearm to reach the palm of the hand. In a very few cases the three arteries of the forearm, radial, ulnar, and inter- osseous, have arisen together from the end of the brachial trunk, at the usual dis- tance below the elbow. Relations.—The brachial artery is occasionally covered in some part of the arm by a fleshy slip connected with the coraco-brachialis, biceps, brachialis anticus, or pronator teres muscle. The median nerve sometimes passes behind, instead of in front of, the brachial artery, and in these cases it will be generally found that the axillary artery pre-SURGICAL ANATOMY OF BRACHIAL ARTERY. 415 sents the variety referred to on p. 408, in which several of the large branches are arising by a common trunk. Branches.—It has been already mentioned that the superior profunda may give origin to the posterior circumflex artery, and that its own origin is sometimes transferred to a branch arising from the axillary artery. Fig. 252.—Aberrant artery, leaving the brachial AT THE MIDDLE OF THE ARM, PASSING WITH THE MEDIAN NERVE THROUGH THE INTERNAL INTER- MUSCULAR SEPTUM, AND JOINING THE ULNAR. (R. Qiiain.) £ a, biceps muscle; h, triceps; c, c, divided pronator teres; d, d, d', median nerve, diverted from its usual course, and passing with the aberrant artery through the internal intermuscular septum ; e, e, e, ulnar nerve ; 1, brachial artery, giving off the aberrant artery at the middle of the arm ; 2, radial artery ; 3, aberrant artery, with the median nerve crossing it, passing at 3', through the internal intermuscular septum ; 3", the same farther down, and communicating at 4' with the first part of the ulnar artery, 4. The inferior profunda is occasionally absent, and on that account has not been recognised by some anatomists as a regular branch of the bra- chial artery. It is frequently united at its origin with the superior profunda. The anastomotic artery is sometimes much re- duced in size, and in that case the inferior pro- funda takes its place behind the humerus. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery may be easily reached for the application of a ligature in any part of its course. In the middle third of the arm its position on the inner side of the biceps muscle, where its pulsation may be felt, is a sufficient guide for the incision. From the thinness of the parts covering the artery, however, and the proximity of superfi- cial veins, especially the basilic, the integuments and fascia must be divided with caution. When the fascia has been cut through, the median nerve generally comes into view, as it lies in front of the artery. Occasionally it is found necessary to divide some muscular fibres before the artery is reached. In the lower third of the arm, the median nerve being placed to the inner side, the artery is mpre fully exposed after division of the fascia, but here care is necessary in passing the ligature round the artery, to avoid the venae comites or their communicating cross branches, which cling very closely to the artery. From the very frequent occurrence of varieties in the mode of division of the brachial artery into the vessels derived from it, the surgeon must be prepared for many deviations from the usual condition of the parts, and especially for the presence of two arteries in place of one in the lower third of the brachial region. In such cases the two arteries are most frequently close together and nearly parallel, and it will be easy to tie both vessels, should this be rendered necessary by the nature of the injury for which the operation is performed. But, as will be seen from what has previously been said of the abnormal forms of the brachial artery, the position of one or both the vessels may be subject to very considerable varia- tion in different instances; and in some of these, while one of the vessels is near416 ARTERIES OF THE UTTER LIMB. the usual position, the other may be at some distance, as for example, when it passes beneath a supracondylar process of the humerus. At the bend of the elbow, the brachial artery is exposed to the risk of injury during the operation of venesection, for which the median-basilic vein, is commonly selected. This vein lies here in front of the artery, the semilunar fascia being- stretched between them. Instances are known in which the artery has been wounded by the lancet transfixing the vein and fascia, and a communi- cation has thus been established between the vein and artery. On this account the incision into the vein must be made with due care, and indeed the median- cephalic, if of sufficient size, may be selected for the operation. Collateral circulation.—When the brachial artery has been tied in the middle of the arm, the superior profunda branch forms the principal channel through which the circulation is carried on, by means of its anastomoses with the radial recurrent, interosseous recurrent, and anastomotic arteries. If the ligature has been placed on the artery near the elbow, the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries will assist by their communications with the ulnar recurrents. ULNAR ARTERY (III). The ulnar artery, the larger of the two vessels into which the brachial divides, extends along the inner side of the forearm into the palm of the hand, where it forms the superficial palmar arch. In this course it inclines at first downwards and inwards, describing a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed inwards, and passes between the super- ficial and deep layers of muscles; somewhat above the middle of the forearm the artery comes into contact with the ulnar nerve, which was previously separated from it by a considerable interval, and thence descends vertically with the nerve towards the inner border of the palm of the hand. Lying along the radial border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, the ulnar artery reaches the outer side of the pisiform bone, where, still accompanied by the nerve, it passes over the cutaneous surface of the anterior annular ligament of the wrist into the palm of the hand. Its disposition in the hand will be separately de- scribed. In the first half of its course through the forearm, the artery is deeply seated, being covered by the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, viz., pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and flexor sublimis digitorum. From the middle of the forearm it is overlapped by the flexor carpi ulnaris till within an inch of the wrist, where it lies immediately under the fascia. Beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris the artery is also covered by a thin layer of membrane by which it is bound down to the muscle beneath. At first the ulnar artery lies on the insertion of the brachialis anticus, then on the flexor profundus digitorum in the rest of the forearm, and lastly, on the annular ligament of the wrist. Below the point at which it emerges from under the flexor carpi ulnaris, the tendon of that muscle is on its inner or ulnar side. Relation to veins.—The ulnar artery is accompanied by two veins {pence comites) which are united by numerous cross branches. Relation to nerves.—The median nerve lies at first immediately on the inner side of the ulnar arteiy, but being directed down the middle of the forearm it soon passes over the vessel, separated from it at the point of crossing by the deep head of the pronator teres muscle. As the ulnar nerve descends behind the inner condyle of the humerus, it is separated from the ulnar artery by a considerable interval at the upper part of the417 ULNAR ARTERY. forearm ; but as the vessel inclines inwards, it approaches the nerve, and is accompanied by it in the lower half or more of its course—the nerve lying close to its inner side. The small palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve descends upon the lower part of the artery. Branches.—The ulnar artery in the forearm gives numerous muscular branches, of small size, to the surrounding muscles, and the following named offsets, viz.:—- 1. The anterior ulnar recurrent artery, a small branch, arches in- wards and upwards from the upper part of the ulnar artery, in front of the inner condyle, lying on the brachialis anticus muscle, and covered by the pronator teres, both of which muscles it partly supplies. It ends by communicating with the anastomotic branch of the brachial. 2. The posterior ulnar recurrent artery, larger than the preced- ing, comes off a little lower down ; but not unfrequeutly the two vessels arise by a short common trunk. The posterior recurrent runs inwards and backwards beneath the flexor sublimis, and then ascends behind the inner condyle. In the interval between that process and the olecranon it lies beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and, passing between the heads of Fig. 253.—The anastomoses OP THE ELBOW : A, FROM BEFORE ; B, FROM BEHIND (from R. Quain). ^ Fig. 253. A. a, brachialis anticus mus- cle ; b, external condyle, covered by the anastomoses of the su- perior profunda and radial re- current arteries ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, median nerve; e, musculo- spiral nerve ; e, its posterior interosseous branch ; its radial branch is cut short; 1, brachial artery ; 2, radial artery ; 3, ulnar artery ; 4, inferior pro- funda ; 5, anastomotic ; 6, anterior ulnar recurrent, anasto- mosing with the anterior de- scending branch of the anasto- motic ; 7, posterior ulnar re- current, passing up behind the inner condyle to anastomose with the inferior profunda and pos- terior branch of the anastomotic; 8, anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda ; 9, on the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the radial recurrent artery; 10, 10, interosseous artery and its anterior branch. B. a, part of the brachialis anticus muscle; b, external lateral ligament of the elbow- joint ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, a small part of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 1, superior profunda artery; 2, branch which descends in the inner head of the triceps muscle ; 3, its posterior terminal branch ; 4, branches of the radial recurrent ; 5, posterior interosseous recurrent, passing up to anas- tomose with the preceding and with the posterior ulnar recurrent ; 6, inferior profunda ; 7, 7, anastomotic artery ; 8, anastomosis of the inferior profunda and anastomotic with the superior profunda ; 9, posterior ulnar recurrent, passing up with the ulnar nerve to anastomose with the inferior profunda and anastomotic. VOL. i. E E418 ARTERIES OP THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 254. Fig. 254. —Deep anterior view of the ar- teries OF THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND (from Tiedemann). £ The biceps, the muscles rising from the inner condyle, the supinator longus, the lower part of the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, the anterior annular ligament, and the muscles of the ball of the thumb have been removed : n, pronator quadratus muscle ; 1, lower part of the axillary artery continued into the brachial; 2, superior profunda ; 3, inferior profunda ; 4, anastomotic ; 5, upper part of the radial artery and radial recurrent; 5', lower part of the radial artery, giving off the superficial volar branch; 5", radial artery, emerging from between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle ; 6, 6, upper part of the ulnar artery with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches ; 6', ulnar artery, approaching the wrist and descending into the superficial palmar arch which has been cut short ; 6", deep branch of the ulnar artery uniting with the deep palmar arch ; 7, (marked only on one) interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch joining the palmar digital arteries 8, 8, 8, which have been cut away from their origin from the superficial arch to near their division into the collateral digital arteries ; the ulnar collateral of the little finger is rising in this instance from the deep palmar arch ; 9, placed between the princeps pollicis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery ; 10, lower part of the anterior interosseous artery passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 11, anas- tomosis of the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries with twigs from the anterior interosseous artery and recurrent branches from the deep palmar arch. this muscle along the ulnar nerve, supplies branches to the muscles, to the elbow-joint, and to the nerve itself. This branch communicates with the inferior profunda, the anastomotic, and, over the olecranon, also with the posterior interosseous recurrent. 3. The interosseous or common interosseous artery (iv), the next and largest branch, is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar artery about an inch from its commencement, and inclines backwards to reach the upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous artery descends upon the front of the inter- osseous membrane, accompanied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve and venae comites, and overlapped by the contiguous borders of the flexorULNAR ARTERY. 419 profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis muscles. It continues its course directly downwards as far as the upper border of the pronator quadratus muscle, then pierces the interosseous membrane, and descends to the back of the carpus. It gives off the following branches :— (a) The median artery, a long slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve and sends offsets into its substance, and to the flexor sublimis digitorum. This artery is sometimes much enlarged, and assists in supplying the hand as will be hereafter noticed. (If) Muscular branches to the flexor profundus, flexor longus pollicis, and pronator quadratus muscles, and others which perforate the inter- osseous membrane to supply tire extensors of the thumb. (c) The medullary arteries of the radius and ulna, which enter the foramina in those bones to be distributed in their interior. (d) An anterior communicating branch, given off before the artery pierces the interosseous membrane, and descending beneath the pronator quadratus muscle to anastomose with the anterior carpal arteries. (e) Terminal twigs anastomosing with the posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous artery, passing backwards through the interval between the oblique ligament and the upper border of the inter- osseous membrane, appears on the back of the forearm between the supinator brevis and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles, and gives off here its recurrent branch. Continuing its course downwards between the superficial and deep layers of extensor muscles, to both of which it distributes branches, it reaches the back of the wrist much diminished in size, and ends by anastomosing with the anterior interosseous and posterior carpal arteries. The posterior interosseous recurrent artery passes directly upwards, covered by the anconeus, to reach the interval between the olecranon and external condyle, where it divides into several offsets which anas- tomose with the superior profunda, the posterior ulnar recurrent and the radial recurrent arteries. 4. The posterior ulnar carpal branch, of variable size, arises a little above the pisiform bone, and winds back under the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to gain the dorsal surface of the carpus. It gives a small metacarpal branch (sometimes derived separately from the ulnar) which runs along the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone, and then passing transversely outwards beneath the extensor tendons anastomoses with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery, so as to form the posterior carpal arch. From this arch are derived the second and third dorsal interosseous arteries, which descend over the spaces between the third and fourth and the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, and are reinforced at the upper ends of those spaces by the junction of the superior per- forating branches of the deep palmar arch. 5. The anterior ulnar carpal branch is a very small artery, which runs on the anterior surface of the carpus beneath the flexor profundus, anastomoses with a similar offset from the radial artery, and supplies the carpal bones and articulations. Varieties.—Origin.—In the whole number of cases observed by R. Quain, the ulnar artery was found to deviate from its usual mode of origin, nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen. The brachial artery was, more frequently than the axillary, the source from which it sprang ; and the lower part of the brachial more frequently than the upper. In one case of high origin of the ulnar artery the vessel was connected with the brachial opposite the elbow-joint by means of E e 2420 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. a transverse branch (Gruber, Reich. Arch., 1871). See, on this subject, the remarks on the varieties of the axillary and brachial arteries. Fig. 255. Fig. 255.—High origin and superficial course of the ulnar artery (from It. Quain, and from a preparation in Allen Thomson’s collection). \ a, biceps muscle covered by the deep fascia; 6, b, fascia of the forearm, which has been opened in a considerable extent to show the radial artery subjacent to it; c, median nerve; d, ulnar nerve ; 1, on the biceps muscle, points to the brachial artery after having given off the ulnar artery higher up, and dividing at 1', into the radial artery and a deep vessel corresponding to the interosseous and a part of the normal ulnar ; 2, on the supinator longus muscle, points to the radial artery ; 3, 3, artery which is given off by the brachial in the arm, and which descending upon the fascia takes the pdace of the ulnar at the wrist; 3', the same continued into the superficial palmar arch, giving off digital branches in the usual manner, and joined by 4, the superficial volar branch of the radial; 5, 5, digital branches. Course.—The position of the ulnar artery in the forearm is more frequently altered than that of the radial. In cases of high origin, it almost invariably descends over the muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, only one exception to this rule having been met with by R. Quain (pi. 36, fig. 2). In one instance the ulnar artery taking this course divided just below the elbow into a superficial and deep branch (Gruber, loc. cit.). Most commonly in such cases it is covered by the fascia of the forearm; but instances also occur in which the artery rests on the fascia, and either continues in that position or again sinks beneath the fascia lower down, while the vessel thus disposed is distributed below after the manner of the normal ulnar artery. The vessel from which the high ulnar separates is afterwards divided into the radial artery and the interosseous ; it appears therefore probable that the abnormal arrangement results from early obstruction of the ulnar artery below the origin of the interosseous, and the development of a superficial vas aberrans, which unites the portion of vessel below the obstruction with the axillary or brachial trunk. The interosseous artery in such cases of abnor- mality thus comprises not only the ordinary inter- osseous branch, but likewise the portion of ulnar artery above the obstruction ; and, in accordance with this view, we find that the recurrent branches are derived from it. The ulnar artery has been seen occasionally taking a superficial course when arising in the usual situation, and in these cases also the recurrent and interosseous arteries are given off by the radial trunk. As to size, the ulnar artery presents some varieties which are generally accompanied by deviations of an opposite and compensating character in the A '//A illSUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH. 421 radial artery ; but as these influence the extent of the distribution of the ulnar artery in the hand they will be noticed in connection with the varieties of the vessels of that part. Branches.—The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent branches frequently arise by a common trunk. One or both have been seen to arise from the brachial artery. The anterior and posterior interosseous arteries are occasionally given separately from the ulnar. The common interosseous trunk has been found to arise above its ordinary situation, taking origin from the brachial, and even (but more rarely) from the axillary artery. The anterior interosseous artery has been seen of large size, reinforcing the radial or, more rarely, the ulnar artery by means of a transversely directed branch joining the main trunk at the wrist (enlargement of an anterior carpal artery) ; or its posterior branch has been seen joining the radial on the back of the hand. More frequently it gives off a large median artery. Median artery.-—The branch accompanying the median nerve is sometimes much enlarged, and in such cases may be regarded as a reinforcing vessel. It is generally a branch of the anterior interosseous, but sometimes of the ulnar ; and more rarely a median branch has been met with descending from the brachial or axillary artery. Generally accompanying the median nerve beneath the annular ligament, occasionally however passing over the front of the ligament, it enters the palm of the hand and there ends, most frequently by joining the superficial palmar arch, sometimes by forming digital branches, and in other cases by joining digital branches given from other sources (figs. 251, 2G0). SUPERFICIAL PALMAR ARCH (IV). The superficial palmar arch is the continuation of the ulnar artery in the hand. As it passes over the anterior annular ligament the ulnar artery gives off its deep branch, and a little below that band it turns outwards across the palm of the hand towards the middle of the muscles of the thumb. In this course the vessel describes a curve, having its convexity directed towards the fingers, and extending downwards somewhat lower than a line on a level with the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb. The arch is sometimes completed on the outer side by inosculating with the superficial volar branch of the radial artery, and in many cases it is connected also, by a small branch, with the radialis indicis or princeps pollicis artery at the lower border of the adductor pollicis muscle. The superficial palmar arch rests at its commencement on the annular ligament of the wrist, and slightly on the short muscles of the little finger; then on the tendons of the superficial flexor of the fingers, and the divisions of the median and ulnar nerves, the latter nerve accompany- ing the vessel for a short distance. It is covered towards the ulnar border of the hand by the palmaris brevis, and afterwards by the palmar fascia and the integument. Branches.—The superficial palmar arch gives off small twigs to the superficial muscles and integument of the palm, and the following larger branches to the fingers :—- The digital arteries (v), usually four in number, proceed downwards from the convexity of the palmar arch to supply both sides of the three inner fingers, and the ulnar side of the fore finger. The first digital branch (often derived from the deep arch) inclines inwards to the ulnar border of the hand, and, after giving minute offsets to the muscles of the little finger, runs along the inner margin of its phalanges. The second runs along the fourth intermetacarpal space, and at the root of the fingers divides into two collateral branches, which proceed along the contiguousARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 256. 422 borders of the ring’ and little fingers. The third is similarly distributed to the ring and middle fingers ; and the fourth to the middle and index fingers. The thumb and the radial side of the index finger are supplied Fig. 256. — Superficial dissection of the lower PART OF THE FOREARM AND THE HAND, SHOWING THE RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES, THE SUPER- FICIAL PALMAR ARCH, AND THE ACCOMPANYING nerves (from R. Quain). r a, placed on the deep fascia of the forearm, be- tween the tendons of the palmaris longus and flexor carpi radialis muscles; b, points by a line crossing the pisiform bone to the ulnar nerve ; c, points to the styloid process of the radius and twigs of the radial nerve ; 1, radial artery lying on the flexor longus pollicis ; 1', the same passing beneath the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and ext. primi internodii pollicis; 2, superficial volar branch, piercing the short muscles of the thumb and emerging below to join the superficial palmar arch ; 3, external branch of the princeps pollicis; 4, radialis indicis; a branch from the superficial arch is seen joining the internal branch of the princeps pollicis ; 5, ulnar artery lying upon the flexor profundus digitorum ; 5', the same descending on the anterior annular ligament to form, the superficial palmar arch ; 6, deep branch of the ulnar artery passing between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti to join the deep arch, accom- panied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, 8, S), 10, four digital arteries from the superficial arch; 7, and 8, are accompanied by the digital branches of the ulnar nerve, and 3, 4, 9, and 10, by branches of the median nerve. The digital arteries descend in the inter- vals between the flexor tendons, resting upon the digital nerves and lumbricales muscles, as far as the clefts of the fingers, where they are joined by the palmar inter- osseous arteries from the deep arch, and by inferior perforating arteries from the back of the hand. On the sides of the fingers, each collateral artery lies beneath the corresponding nerve, and gives branches which supply the sheaths of the tendons and the joints, some of them anastomo- sing across the front of the bones with similar branches from the opposite side. At about the middle of the last phalanx, the two arteries of each finger converge and form an arch, from which numerous branches pro- ceed to supply the skin and subcutaneous tissue of the tip of the finger. Other offsets pass to the structures on the back of the second and third phalanges, and form a close plexus beneath the matrix of the nail. The varieties observed in the branches of the superficial palmar arch will be noticed after the description of the deep arteries of the hand. The deep branch of the ulnar artery arises at the commence- ment of the superficial palmar arch, immediately below the pisiform bone ; passing deeply into the palm between the abductor and short flexor muscles of the little finger, it inosculates with the termination of the radial artery and so completes the deep palmar arch. from the radial artery.RADIAL ARTERY. 423 EADIAL ARTERY (IV). The radial artery appears by its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, although it does not equal the ulnar in size. It extends along the front of the forearm as far as the lower end of the radius, below which it turns round the outer border of the wrist, and descends to the upper end of the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger: there it passes forwards into the palm of the hand, supplies digital branches to the thumb and index finger, and terminates in the deep palmar arch. In consequence of the changes in its direction, the course, connections and branches of the radial artery may be sepa- rately described in the forearm, at the wrist and in the hand. In the forearm.—The radial artery, commencing at the point of bifurcation of the brachial opposite the neck of the radius, descends with a nearly straight course, along the outer part of the front of the forearm, to the styloid process of the radius. Its position is indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the narrow interval between the scaphoid bone and the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, which can be readily felt on the outer border of the wrist. The radial artery is nearer to the surface than the ulnar ; it is covered in its upper half by the fleshy part of the supinator longus muscle, which must be drawn aside in order to bring the vessel into view ; in its lower half only by the integument and fascia. At first it is in contact with the tendon of the biceps, and is supported by the fatty tissue contained in the hollow in the front of the elbow, which separates it from the short supinator muscle. It then rests in succession on the insertion of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, the flexor longus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the lower end of the radius. It is at this last point that the pulse is usually felt during life. To the inner side of this vessel lie the pronator teres in the upper part of its course, and the flexor carpi radialis in the remainder; and on the outer side, in its whole course along the forearm, is the supinator longus muscle. Relation to veins.—The artery is accompanied by vence comites, which have the usual arrangement of those veins. Relation to nerves.—The radial nerve is near the artery, on its outer side, in the middle third of its course. At the elbow this nerve is sepa- rated from the artery by a considerable interval; and towards the lower end of the forearm it turns backwards beneath the tendon of the supi- nator longus, to reach the dorsal aspect of the limb, and thus loses all connection with the artery. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia to reach the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the back of the carpus. Branches.—In the forearm the radial artery gives many small muscular offsets to the surrounding muscles and the following named branches, viz.:— 1. The radial recurrent artery, which varies much in size, arches upwards from the radial soon after its origin, running between the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve., It lies at first on the supinator brevis, and then on the brachialis anticus, being covered by the supinator longus. In the interval between the last two muscles, it anastomoses with the anterior terminal branch of the superior profunda. From the lower or convex side of this artery are given off several424 ARTERIES OF THE UPTER LIMB. branches ; one or more, of considerable size, to the supinator and radial extensor muscles, and some beneath the latter to anastomose with the posterior interosseous recurrent. It also supplies the supinator brevis, and brachialis anticus in part. Fig. 257. —Deep anterior view of the ar- teries OF THE FOREARM AND HAND (from Tiedemarm). \ For the full description of this figure see p. 418. The following numbers refer to the radial artery and its branches: 5, upper part of the radial ai’tery and radial recurrent; 5', lower part of the radial artery, giving off the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches ; 5", the radial artery, emerging from betweon the heads of the abduc- tor indicis muscle and forming the deep palmar arch ; 9, placed between the princeps pollieis and radialis indicis branches of the radial artery. 2. The anterior radial carpal is a small branch which arises near the lower border of the pronator quad- ratic muscle, and runs inwards in front of the wrist to anastomose with a similar branch of the ulnar artery. The arch thus formed (anterior carpal arch) is joined above by communi- cating offsets from the anterior inter- osseous artery and below by the recur- rent branches of the deep palmar arch, thus giving rise to a network over the front of the wrist, from which twigs are supplied to the carpal bones and articulations. 3. The superficial volar artery, arising from the radial near the place where it leaves the front of the fore- arm, passes onwards into the hand. In size it is variable ; in most instances it is very small, and ends in the muscles of the thumb ; but in others it attains considerable size, and, crossing these muscles, terminates by inosculating with the radial extremity of the super- ficial palmar arch, which it thus com- pletes. At the wrist.—Below the styloid process of the radius, the radial artery turns backwards, passing beneath the tendons of the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb, and resting upon the external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. It then runs downwards for a short distance over the scaphoid bone and trapezium, being crossed by the tendon of the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaches the upper end of the space between the first and second meta-Fig. 258. RADIAL ARTERY. 425 Fig. 258.—Arteries op the outer and back PART OF THE ARM AND HAND, SUPERFICIAL VIEW (from Tiedemanu). I a, deltoid muscle ; 5, outer head of triceps ; r, biceps ; d, bracliialis anticus ; e, supinator longus; f, extensor carpi radialis longior ; g, brevior ; k, extensor communis digitorum and extensor minimi digiti; i, extensor carpi ulnaris ; Jc, anconeus ; /, flexor carpi ulnaris ; m, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; n, extensor primi internodii pollicis ; o, extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; 1, 1, cuta- neous and posterior terminal branches of the su- perior profunda artery, the latter descending to anastomose with the branches of the interosseous and radial recurrent arteries ; 2, above the posterior annular ligament, points to the posterior branch of the anterior interosseous artery ; 3, posterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery; 4, radial artery, taking its course between the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist-joint and the tendons of the ex- tensor muscles before passing near 5, between the two heads of the abductor indicis ; beneath the extensor tendons is seen the posterior carpal arch, giving in this case the three dorsal interosseous arteries ; 6, the inner dorsal artery of the thumb; 7, the outer dorsal artery of the index finger ; 7', the metacarpal branch of the ulnar artery and between 7, and 7', the remaining dorsal digital arteries, formed by the bifurcation of the dorsal interosseous arteries. carpal bones, where it turns forwards into the palm of the hand, by passing between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. As it turns round below the end of the radius the artery is deeply seated, but afterwards it comes nearer to the surface. It is accompanied by two veins and by some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve, and is crossed by sub- cutaneous veins and by branches of the radial nerve. Branches.—1. The posterior radial carpal is a small but constant branch. It arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and running inwards on the back of the carpus anastomoses with the posterior ulnar carpal branch, completing the posterior carpal arch, from which the dorsal interosseous arteries of the third and fourth spaces spring. It anasto- moses, also, with the terminal branch of the anterior interosseous of the forearm. 2. The first dorsal interosseous artery, arising beneath the extensor ten- dons of the thumb, frequently in common with the posterior carpal branch, passesARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 426 to the interval between the second and third metacarpal bones, commu- nicates with the first superior perforating branch of the deep palmar arch, and descends on the second dorsal interosseous muscle to the level of tbe metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. It here sends forwards a slender inferior perforating branch to join the corresponding palmar digital artery, and ends by dividing into two dorsal digital branches which ramify on the adjacent margins of the index and middle fingers, as far as the base of the second phalanx, and anastomose on the sides of the fingers with the palmar collateral arteries. The second and third dorsal interosseous arteries, springing from the posterior carpal arch, are distributed in a similar manner in the third and fourth interdigital spaces, but their inferior perforating branches are often wanting. 3. The dorsal arteries of the thumb, two small branches, arising separately or together opposite the base of the metacarpal bone, run upon the dorsal aspect of the thumb-bones, one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border. 4. The dorsal artery of the index finger, a very small branch, arises below the preceding, and, sending branches to the abductor indicis, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger. In the hand.—The radial artery, entering the palm between the heads of the abductor indicis muscle, immediately gives off, under cover of the deep part of the flexor brevis pollicis, the large artery of the thumb and the radial branch of the index finger, and turns inwards to form the deep palmar arch by inosculating with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The large artery of the thumb (art. princeps pollicis') passes down- wards in front of the abductor indicis, between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the muscles covering it, to the space between the heads of the flexor brevis pollicis. At that point, and beneath the tendon of the long flexor, it divides into two collateral branches, which course along the borders of the phalanges, on their palmar aspect, and unite in front of the last phalanx, to form an arch similar in arrangement to that on the other fingers. The radial branch of the index finger (art. radialis indicis) descends between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis muscles, and continues along the radial border of the index finger, forming its radial collateral branch, and anastomosing in the usual manner on the last phalanx with the ulnar collateral branch derived from the superficial palmar arch. This artery sometimes arises by a common trunk with the foregoing, or more frequently is united with the inner collateral artery of the thumb. Varieties.—Origin.—In tlie observations of Richard Quain, the radial artery was found to arise higher up than usual in nearly one case in eight. Its origin was much more frequently from the axillary, or from the upper part of the brachial, than from the lower part of the latter artery. Low origin of the radial artery is much less frequent (see p. 413), but it has been found arising below the upper third of the forearm (Tiedemann, tab. 47, fig. 3). Course.—The radial artery more rarely deviates from its usual position along the forearm than the ulnar. It has been found lying upon the semilunar fascia of the biceps, and over the aponeurosis of the forearm instead of beneath those structures. It occasionally turns backwards over, instead of beneath, the tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb ; and in rarer cases it has been seen passing backwards, over the supinator longus, above the middle of the forearm, andDEEP PALMAR ARCH. 42? descending across the thumb-muscles to the wrist. In cases of low origin the radial artery passes beneath the pronator teres and the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum to its usual position between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis, and in two or three of these cases it has been seen joined by a vas aberrans as it makes its appearance superficially (R. Quain, pi. 35, fig. 4, G-. D. T.). As has been previously stated (p. 414), the vasa aberrantia occasionally derived from the brachial or axillary artery commonly end by join- ing the radial, or one of its branches. Size.—The radial artery is sometimes much smaller than usual, and it has been seen terminating in the carpal and superficial volar offsets, or in muscular offsets at a variable level in the forearm. A few instances of absence of the radial artery are also recorded, the brachial artery being continued directly into the ulnar- interosseous trunk, and giving off only a radial recurrent branch at the usual place of division. In these cases the deficiency is generally supplied by the ulnar artery in the hand, or by a large median artery, more rarely by a branch of the anterior interosseous directed outwards in front of the wrist, or joining the diminished radial trunk at the back of the hand (p. 421). Branches.—The radial recurrent is sometimes very large, or it may be replaced by several separate branches. One considerable branch occasionally passes back- wards on the surface of the supinator brevis muscle, and turns upwards behind the outer condyle of the humerus, replacing the posterior interosseous recurrent artery. "When the radial itself arises high up, the recurrent artery usually comes from the residual brachial trunk, or sometimes from the ulnar artery, or more rarely from the interosseous. When given from the brachial trunk, the radial recurrent has been found crossing beneath the tendon of the biceps. The superficial volar branch is sometimes enlarged, and furnishes one or two digital branches (generally to the thumb and index finger), and along with this the communication with the superficial arch may be absent. This branch occasionally arises much higher than usual, and in a few cases the radial artery has been found dividing in the upper part of the forearm into two branches of nearly equal size, the one of which descends into the palm of the hand as the superficial volar artery, giving off also the carpal and dorsal digital branches, while the other passes backwards at a variable level, over the extensor tendons, in the manner described above. The carpal and dorsal interosseous branches of the radial are sometimes very small, their place being supplied by the perforating offset of the anterior inter- osseous, apparently by an enlargement of the ordinary anastomosis between them. The first dorsal interosseous branch is not unfrequently much enlarged, and furnishes the collateral digital arteries to the index and middle fingers. The dorsal artery of the index finger may similarly, though more rarely, supply one or both of the collateral arteries of the adjacent sides of the thumb and index finger. DEEP PALMAR ARCH (V). The deep palmar arch, the continuation of the radial artery, com- mences at the upper end of the first interosseous space, extends trans- versely across the palm towards the fifth metacarpal bone, and is com- pleted by the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The convexity of the arch thus formed is directed downwards. It rests on the interosseous muscles and on the metacarpal bones immediately below their carpal extremities, and is covered by the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, and the opponens and flexor brevis minimi digiti. It is nearer to the carpus than the superficial arch, and differs from it in re- taining its size almost undiminished. It is accompanied for some distance by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which runs from the inner end of the arch outwards. Branches.—1. The recurrent branches ascend from the upper con- cave side of the arch, and anastomose with the branches of the anterior carpal arch.ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 423 2. The superior perforating branches, three in number, frequently arise in common with the following branches ; they pass backwards through the upper extremities of the inner three interosseous spaces to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. 3. The palmar interosseous arteries, usually three in number, but very liable to variation, lie in front of the interosseous spaces, supply the muscles there, and inosculate at the clefts of the fingers with the digital Fig. 259.—Deep arteries of the wrist and palm (from R. Quain). J The anterior annular ligament of the wrist has been divided ; the lower parts of the common flexors and flexor of the thumb have been removed, and portions of these tendons are turned down upon the fingers with parts of the lumbricales muscles ; the superficial palmar arch is removed, and the interosseous muscles are exposed : a, ulnar nerve ; b, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle; c, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; d, tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; 1, radial artery; 1', its lower part giving off the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches, the latter cut short; 2, ulnar artery; 3, anterior interosseous artery, passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 4, radial artery, appearing deeply in the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones and passing into the deep palmar arch ; 5, deep branch of the ulnar artery, dipping between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti to join the deep arch, and accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 6, a digital artery, rising from the first part of the superficial palmar arch ; 7, princeps pollicis, and 8, radialis indicis arteries; 9, 9, 9, interosseous branches of the deep palmar arch, proceeding down on the inter- osseous muscles to join the palmar digital arteries from the superficial arch. branches from the superficial arch. There is generally also a communicat- ing branch passing from the innermost interosseous artery, or from the deep arch itself, to the digital artery of the inner side of the little finger. It is by an enlargement of these small vessels that the deep palmar arch sometimes supplies the corresponding digital arteries when those derived from the superficial arch are small or absent. Varieties of the arteries of the hand.—The arteries of the hand frequently vary from their usual mode of distribution. (a) By far the larger number of deviations consist of a deficiency in either the radial or ulnar system of arteries, accompanied by a corresponding increase in the other ; and it may be observed that the defect is much more commonly on the part of the superficial, and the increase on the part of the deep set. (J) In the second and smaller class of variations a deficiency in one or other of the tw'o systems is supplied, either by the enlargement of branches which descend in front of the limb, as the superficial volar (from the radial), or the median artery (from the anterior interosseous, as shown in fig. 260), or by the enlargement of an interosseous branch (from the radial) on the back of the hand. In illustration of these general remarks, the following modes of arrangement of the vessels may be mentioned :—VARIETIES OF TIIE ARTERIES OF THE HAND. 429 la the greater number of cases the superficial palmar arch is diminished, and gives off fewer digital branches than usual. Generally only one branch is wanting, viz., that which supplies the adjacent sides of the fore and middle fingers ; but sometimes two or three branches are absent, or even all four, as when the ulnar artery, after giving branches to the short muscles of the little finger, ends in the deep palmar arch. In the last-mentioned case, which is rare, it Fig. 260.—An enlarged median artery replac- ing THE RADIAL AND ULNAR IN THE SUPPLY OP PALMAR ARTERIES TO HALF THE DIGITS (from Tiedemann). J 1, lower part of the brachial artery; 2, radial artery, not giving any superficial volar branch ; 3, recurrent radial; 4, ulnar artery, passing over the wrist and supplying at 4', 4', 4', digital arteries to half the hand ; 5, the enlarged median artery pass- ing in front of the annular ligament of the wrist, and supplying 5', 5', digital branches to the outer half of the hand. is obvious that the superficial arch is alto- gether wanting. These various deficiencies in the superficial palmar arch and its branches are usually com- pensated for by an enlargement of the deep arch, the palmar interosseous branches of which, being increased in size, divide at the clefts of the fingers, and form such collateral digital branches as are not derived from the usual source. But a defective superficial arch may, as before mentioned, be reinforced from other vessels, viz., from the superficial volar, from an enlarged median artery, or from a large dorsal interosseous branch. It sometimes, but less frequently happens, that the deep system of vessels is deficient; in which case the superficial arch may supply all the digital arteries to the thumb and fingers, or one or more of these may be derived from the superficial volar, the median, or a dorsal inter- osseous artery. The superficial palmar arch has occa- sionally been seen double, the superficial part of the ulnar artery and the superficial volar branch of the radial being each divided into two communicating branches. Two of the digital arteries frequently arise by a common trunk. Fig 230. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE ULNAR AND RADIAL ARTERIES. In the upper third of the forearm, the depth at which the ulnar artery is placed beneath the muscles and the origin of the large interosseous branch prevent the application of a ligature to this part of the vessel. In the middle third, the artery may be tied as it approaches the ulnar nerve. An incision is made along a line drawn from the internal condyle of the humerus to the pisiform bone, and the intermuscular space between the flexor sublimis digitorum and flexor carpi ulnaris opened up, when the ulnar nerve comes into view. The artery, accompanied by its veme comites, will be found to the outerDESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 430 side of the nerve, a little way removed from it, and under cover of the flexoi sublimis digitoram, if the spot selected be above the middle of the forearm. Near the wrist, the artery is readily exposed by an incision along the outer border of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon. After drawing inwards this tendon, a deep layer of fascia is seen covering the vessels, and on dividing this the artery is laid bare with the nerve to its inner side. The radial artery may be ligatured in any part of its extent in the forearm by means of an incision carried through the skin and fascia in the course of the vessel, i. e., along a line from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius. In the upper half of the forearm, the fleshy belly of the supinator longus will have to be drawn outwards ; in the lower half, the artery lies close to the outer side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ra.dia.lia which forms a guide to the vessel. At the wrist the radial artery may also be readily secured, the incision being made midway between the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and secundi internodii pollicis. It is generally preferable, however, to tie the artery at the lower part of the forearm. Collateral circulation.—The communications between the branches of the ulnar and radial arteries, about the wrist and in the palm, are so numerous and free that the circulation in the hand is carried on without difficulty after occlusion of either of the main trunks. It is important to bear in mind, in connection with wounds of the palmar arteries, the possibility of blood being conveyed to the hand by other channels than the ulnar and radial trunks, viz., by a large median artery, or a terminal branch of the anterior interosseous. DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. From the point at which its arch is considered to terminate—the lower margin of the fifth dorsal vertebra, the aorta descends along the spine to the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the common iliac arteries. The direction of this part of the vessel is not vertical, for, as it follows the hend of the spine, upon which it rests, it is necessarily concave forwards in the dorsal region, and convex forwards in the lumbar. Again, as its commencement is on the left side of the bodies of the vertebrae, and its termination nearly in the middle line, there is a general inclination inwards in its whole length, but more marked in the upper half. Within the thorax, where the offsets are small, the aorta diminishes only slightly in size (from 23 to 21 mm.) ; in the abdomen the diminution is considerable (from 21 to 17 mm.), in con- sequence of large branches being furnished to the viscera of that cavity. That part of the descending aorta which is situated in the thorax is called the descending thoracic aorta; it extends from the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra on the left side, to the opening between the crura of the diaphragm in front of the last dorsal vertebra. It lies in the posterior mediastinum, resting against the spine and covered in front by the root of the left lung and the pericardium; on the left side it is in contact with the corresponding pleura and lung ; and close to it on the right side are the azygos vein, the thoracic duct, and the oesophagus. The oesophagus, however, towards the lower part of the thorax, is in front of the artery, and near the diaphragm gets somewhat to the left side. The left or small azygos vein lies behind the descending thoracic aorta. The branches derived from the descending thoracic aorta are numerous, but small. They are distributed to the walls of the thorax, and to the viscera contained within it—the parietal branches being the larger and more numerous..BRANCHES OF THE DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 431 A. Branches to the viscera :— The pericardial branches are some very small and irregular vessels which pass forwards and ramify on the pericardium. The bronchial arteries are the nutrient arteries of the substance of the lung, and they supply also the bronchial glands, and in part the pericardium and oesophagus. These vessels vary frequently in number, and in their mode of origin. On the right side there is usually one bronchial ar- tery which arises from the first aortic intercostal artery, or by a common trunk with the upper left bronchial artery from the descending thoracic aorta ; on the left side there are generally two arteries, both of which arise from the descending thoracic aorta, one near the commencement of that trunk, and the other, named inferior bronchial, lower down. Each artery is directed to the back part of the corresponding bronchus, along which it runs, dividing and subdividing with the successive bronchial ramifications in the substance of the lung. Varieties.—Tlie place of origin of tlie bronchial arteries is liable to much variation. The artery of the right side has been found to arise singly from the aorta, from the internal mammary, or from the inferior thyroid. The bronchial arteries of the two sides have been seen to arise by a common trunk from the subclavian (Haller). Two common trunks, each furnishing a branch to the right and left lungs, have been observed in a single case to descend into the thorax, after arising, one from the internal mammary, and the other from the superior intercostal artery (R. Quain, pi. 26, fig. 5). In some cases they arise from the under surface of the arch, instead of from the descending thoracic aorta. Instances also occur of two distinct bronchial arteries for each lung. The oesophageal arteries are variable in size and number. There are usually four or five, which arise from the fore part or right side of the aorta, and run downwards upon the oesophagus, supplying its coats. Their lower branches anastomose with the ascending offsets of the coronary artery of the stomach and with the phrenic arteries, wdiile their upper branches communicate with those of the inferior thyroid artery. Posterior mediastinal branches, small and irregular, supply the glands, areolar tissue, and other structures in the posterior mediastinum, as well as the vertebral portion of the diaphragm. B. Branches to the wall of the thorax :— The intercostal arteries (iv) arise from the posterior part of the aorta, and run outwards upon the bodies of the vertebra;, to reach the intercostal spaces. They are usually nine in number—the upper two spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. Owing to the position of the aorta on the left side of the spine, the right aortic intercostals cross over the front of the vertebra, furnish- ing small branches to their interior, and are longer than the arteries of the left side. The vessels of both sides pass outwards behind the pleura, and are crossed by the sympathetic nerve : those of the right side also pass behind the oesophagus, the thoracic duct, and the large azygos vein. In each intercostal space the artery, passing outwards more horizon- tally than the ribs, crosses the space obliquely, so as to gain the lower border of the upper rib near its angle. It lies upon the deep surface of the external intercostal muscle, and in the back of the space is separated from the pleura only by a thin fascia, but farther outwards it lies between the twro layers of intercostal muscles. Extending forwards in the sub-DESCENDING THORACIC AORTA. 432 costal groove of the upper rib, it finally anastomoses with one of the anterior intercostal branches derived from the internal mammary artery. Fig. 26!. Fig. 2G1.—The thoracic AND GREATER PART OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, &C. i For the general descrip tion of this figure, see p. 354. The following numbers indicate the branches of the aorta ; 1, placed between the origins of the right and left coronary arteries; 2, innominate; 3, left carotid; 4, left subclavian ; 5, bron- chial ; 6, 6, oesophageal; 7, 7, intercostal arteries (sixth and seventh) ; 8, inferior phrenic ; 9, coeliac axis; 10, below the superior mesen- teric and opposite the origin of the renal arteries; 11, 11, two of the lumbar ar- teries. The first of the aortic intercostal arte- ries has an anastomosis with the superior inter- costal artery from the subclavian, and not unfrequently sends up- wards a considerable branch, which supplies the second space wholly or in great part. The last two are prolonged into the abdominal wall, where they com- municate with the epi- gastric artery, and with the lumbar branches of the abdominal aorta. Each intercostal ar- tery is accompanied, as it runs outwards be- tween the ribs, by a corresponding vein, and by an intercostal nerve; the vein being usually above, and the nerve below it. Branches.— (a) The posterior or dorsal branch of each intercostal artery passes backwards to the inner side of the superior costo-transverse ligament, along with the posterior branch of433 ABDOMINAL AORTA. the corresponding nerve ; and, having famished an offset to the spinal canal, reaches the muscles of the back, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is directed towards the spinous processes, on or through the multifidus spinae, and ramifies in the muscles and the skin. The external branch turns outwards under the longissimus dorsi, and is distributed between that muscle and the ilio-costalis ; some twigs reach the superficial muscles and the integuments. The spinal branch is distributed partly to the cord and its membranes, and partly to the bones, in the same manner as the spinal branches of the lumbar arteries (p. 447). (£) The collateral intercostal branch, long and slender, arises near the angle of the upper rib of the space, inclines downwards, and is continued along'the border of the lower rib, to anastomose in front with an anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. There are thus in each intercostal space two terminal branches of the intercostal artery communicating with the branches of the internal mammary. Both the main trunk and the collateral branch give offsets to the intercostal muscles and ribs, and small twigs which anastomose beneath the pleura with one another and with branches of the internal mammary and bronchial arteries (see p. 400). Other branches supply the muscles covering the thorax and anastomose with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and one accompanies the lateral cutaneous branch of the intercostal nerve to the skin. From the arteries in the third, fourth, and fifth spaces branches are sent to the mammary gland in the female. Varieties.—The number of tranks by which the intercostal arteries arise is subject to much variation : two or even three arteries of the same side, especially the upper ones, sometimes arise by a single stem. One or two of these vessels may be absent on one side, the corresjwnding spaces being- supplied by branches from the neighbouring intercostal arteries. ABDOMINAL AORTA. The aorta, after having passed the diaphragm, is thus named. It commences on the front of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates below by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place about half-way down the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line ; a point which is nearly on a level with a line drawn from the highest part of one iliac crest to the other, and which corresponds to a spot on the front of the abdomen, slightly below and to the left side of the umbilicus. The anterior surface of the abdominal aorta is successively in apposi- tion with the pancreas and the splenic vein, the left renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. The vena cava lies along its right side, the right crus of the diaphragm being inter- posed at the upper part; close to the same side are the thoracic duct and the azygos vein, which are placed between the aorta and the crus of the diaphragm. The aorta is also covered in front by the solar and aortic plexuses of the sympathetic uerve, by numerous lymphatic vessels and glands, and by a layer of dense areolar tissue. Branches.—The abdominal aorta gives numerous branches, which may be divided into two sets, viz., those which supply the viscera, and those which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. The former consists of the coeliac artery, the superior mesenteric, the inferior VOL. I. F F434 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Fig. 262. Fig. 262.—The abdominal aorta and its principal branches (from Tiedemann). £ a, ensiform process ; b, inferior vena cava, passing through the tendon of the dia- phragm ; c, oesophagus, passing through the muscular portion ; d and e, tendinous parts of the right and left crura ; /, /', right and left kidneys with the suprarenal bodies ; g, g', ureters ; h, upper part of the urinary bladder ; i, i, right and left vasa deferentia passing up from the bladder to the internal abdominal rings ; i, rectum, divided near its upper end; 1,1, abdominal aorta; 1', middle sacral artery; 2, 2'right, 3, 3', left inferior phrenic435 VISCERAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. artery, arising by a short common stem from the front of the aorta immediately below the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm ; 4, cceliac axis ; 5, superior mesenteric artery ; 6, 6, renal arteries ; O', 6' suprarenal arteries arising partly from the aorta and partly from the inferior phrenic ; 7, placed on the front of the aorta below the origin of the sperma- tic arteries ; 7, 7', placed on the psoas muscles, point to the right and left spermatic arteries as they descend to the internal abdominal rings ; 8, inferior mesenteric artery ; 9, 9, 9, lumbar arteries ; 9', lowest lumbar artery; 10, 10, common iliac arteries ; 11, between the external and internal iliac arteries ; 12, left epigastric artery ; 13, circumflex iliac; 14, branches of the ilio-lumbar. mesenteric, the suprarenal, the renal, and the spermatic arteries ; while in the latter are included the phrenic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral arteries. The first three of the visceral branches are single arteries. Varieties.—Place of division.—In more than three-fourths of a considerable number of cases, the aorta divided either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc below it; in one case out of nine it was below, and in about one out of eleven above the spot thus indicated : in ten bodies out of every thirteen, the division of the great artery took place within half an inch above or below the level of the iliac crest (R. Quain). An instance of bifurcation imme- diately below the origin of the right renal artery is recorded by Haller (Disputat. Anatom., t. vi.,p. 781), and division opposite the second lumbar vertebra has been observed by Boinct (Arch. gen. de Med., 1835, vii.,233), Cruveilhier (“ Anatomic,” 5th Ed., iii., 148), and Eckhard (Zeitsch. f. rat. Med., xxxi., 408). Unusual branch.—Two remarkable cases are recorded of the existence of a large pulmonary branch which arose from the abdominal aorta, close to the cceliac axis, and, after passing upwards through the oesophageal opening in the dia- phragm, divided into two branches, which were distributed to the lungs near their bases (see Henle, op. cit., p. 292). A.-VISCERAL BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The cceliac artery or axis (i) is a short wide vessel, usually not more than half an inch in length, which arises from the front of the aorta close to the margin of the opening in the diaphragm. It is directed nearly horizontally forwards at the upper border of the pancreas, being placed behind the small omentum and close to the left side of the Spigelian lobule of the liver. The two semilunar ganglia of the sympa- thetic are also contiguous to it, one on each side. The artery divides into three branches, viz., the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic, and the splenic, which separate simultaneously from the end of the trunk like radii from an axis. Varieties.—Tlie cceliac axis is occasionally partly covered at its origin by the diaphragm. It may be longer than usual, in which case its branches are not given off together ; or it may be entirely wanting, the coronary, hepatic, and splenic arteries arising separately from the aorta. In some cases the cceliac artery gives off only two branches at its division (the coronary and the splenic), the hepatic being supplied from another source. Rarely, it gives more than three branches to the viscera, the additional vessel being a second coronary, or a separate gastro- duodenal artery. One or both phrenic arteries are frequently derived from this trunk. Cases have been met with in which a connection existed between the cceliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery close to their origin. A. The coronary artery of the stomach (iii-iv), the smallest of the three branches derived from the cceliac axis, runs at first upwards and to the left side, and reaches the cardiac orifice of the stomach. It then F F 2ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 43G turns sharply forwards and downwards, and is continued from left to right along the small curvature of the stomach, distributing branches to both surfaces of that viscus, and finally inosculating with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. Where it first reaches the stomach, this artery sends upwards (esopha- geal branches, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries. The branches to the stomach, descending on the fore and back part of the organ, anastomose with branches from the arterial arch on the great curvature. Varieties.—The coronary artery of the stomach is sometimes given off directly from the aorta; and is occasionally replaced by two separate vessels. It some- times furnishes the left or an additional hepatic artery ; and according to Hyrtl there is constantly a small branch which ascends to the left end of the transverse fissure of the liver and anastomoses with an offset of the left hepatic artery. B. The hepatic artery (ii) is in the adult intermediate in size between the coronary and splenic arteries, but in the foetus it is the largest of the three. It is directed at first forwards and to the right, passing over the upper border of the pancreas, and below the foramen of Winslow, to the upper margin of the pyloric orifice of the stomach, where it gives off its gastro-duodenal branch. It then ascends between the layers of the small omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, towards the transverse fissure of the liver ; and in this course it lies upon the portal vein, and to the left of the common bile-duct. Near the liver, it ends by dividing into right and left branches, which supply the corre- sponding lobes of that organ. Branches.—(a) The gastro-duodenal artery (iv) descends near the pylorus behind the first part of the duodenum, and divides at the lower border of that viscus into a smaller superior pancreatico-duodenal and a larger right gastro-epiploic artery. The superior pancreatico-duodenal artery descends along the inner margin of the duodenum, between that and the pancreas, and, after furnishing several branches to both these organs, anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal from the superior mesenteric artery. The right gastro-epiploic artery, the continua- tion of the gastro-duodenal, runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and ends by inosculating with the left gastro-epiploic from the splenic artery. It sends branches upwards to both surfaces of the stomach, and long slender vessels downwards to the omentum. (b) The pyloric artery, descending from its origin and coming in con- tact with the stomach at the upper border of the pylorus, extends from right to left along the small curvature, aud inosculates with the coronary artery. It is sometimes a branch of the gastro-duodenal. (c) The right hepatic branch inclines outwards behind the hepatic and cystic ducts (occasionally in front of the hepatic), giving off the cystic artery as it passes these, and reaches the right end of the transverse fis- sure, where it divides into two or three branches as it enters the liver substance. The cystic artery (vi) turns forwards upon the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two smaller branches, of which one rami- fies between the coats on the inferior surface, the other between the bladder aud the liver. (d) The left hepatic branch, smaller than the right, from which it diverges at an acute angle, gives off one or two branches to the Spigelian437 CCELIAC AXIS. Pig. 263. Fig. 263.—The arteries of the stomach, liver, and omentum (from Tiedemann). £ The liver is turned up so as to show its lower surface with the portal fissure, and the vessels and ducts entering it : a, right lobe of the liver ; b, left lobe ; c, gall-bladder ; c', hepatic ducts ; c", common bile-duct; d, umbilical fissure and round ligament; e, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; /, on the great curvature of the stomach near its cardiac end, points to the spleen ; g, pylorus ; li, duodenum ; i, i, great omentum ; k, k, part of the small intestine in the lower part of' the abdomen ; 1, upon the trunk of the abdominal aorta, below the root of the inferior phrenic arteries, and above the cceliac axis ; 2, placed on the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm, the coronary artery of the stomach ; 2', the same artery proceeding round the small curvature of the stomach and ending by inosculating with the pyloric ; 3, the main hepatic artery, continued at 3' as proper hepatic artery to the liver ; 4, pyloric artery; 4', another pyloric branch ; 5, trunk of the portal vein ; 5', 5', 5', its branches in the transverse fissure ; 6, gastro- duodenal artery; 6', 6', its continuation as the right gastro-epiploic ; 7, on the left crus of the diaphragm, the splenic artery; 8, its left gastro-epiploic branch, proceeding round the great curvature of the stomach to communicate with the right gastro-epiploic artery ; both of these vessels are seen giving long epiploic as well as gastric branches.438 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN! lobule, and enters the liver at the left end of the transverse fissure. The ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver accompany the di- visions of the portal vein and hepatic duct. Varieties.—The hepatic artery sometimes arises from the superior mesenteric artery, or from the aorta itself. The left hepatic artery is not unfrequently de- rived from the coronary artery of the stomach, occasionally from the superior mesenteric, rarely from the splenic. Accessory hepatic arteries are sometimes met with, generally coming from the coronary artery, less frequently from the superior mesenteric, the aorta, the right renal, or the inferior mesenteric. The hepatic artery has been found to furnish a phrenic branch. The cystic artery has been seen arising from the superior mesenteric. C. The splenic artery (ii), in the adidt the largest branch of the coeliac axis, supplies the spleen, and in part the stomach and pancreas. Waving and often tortuous in its course, it passes along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides near the spleen into several branches, which are distributed to that organ and to the left portion of the stomach. Branches.-—(a) Pancreatic branches, variable in size and number, are given off while the artery is passing along the pancreas, the body and tail of which they supply. One of larger size not unfrequently runs from left Fig. 264. Fig. 264.—Tiie arteries or the stomach, duodenum, pancreas, and spleen (from Tiedemann). ^ The stomach and liver are turned upwards ; the jejunum is divided at its commence- ment : a, right lobe of the liver; l>, left lobe; c, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus ; e, first part, /, second part, and g, third part of the duodenum ; h, commence- ment of the jejunum ; i, head, and k, body of the pancreas ; l, spleen ; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passing from the aorta upon the crura of the diaphragm ; 2, placed on the aorta close to the coeliac axis; 3, 3', coronary artery; 4, common hepatic; 4', 4', proper hepatic artery and its right branch ; 4", cystic artery ; 5, 5, right gastro- epiploic, and 6, superior pancreatico-duodenal, the two divisions of the gastro-duodenal; 7, splenic artery; V, splenic branches ; 7", one of the vasa brevia to the stomach ; 8, 8, left gastro-epiploic artery, uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, giving off the inferior pancreatico- duodenal ; 10, inferior mesenteric.SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 439 to right in the direction of the pancreatic duct, and is called arteriapan- creatica magnet. (b) The splenic branches are the proper terminal branches of the artery ; they are five or six, or even more, in number, and vary in length and size; they enter the spleen by the hilus on its concave surface, and ramify within that organ. (c) The short gastric branches (vasa brevia), from four to six in number, are directed forwards and to the right, some issuing from the trunk of the splenic artery, others from its terminal branches : they reach the left extremity of the stomach, where they divide and spread out between its coats, communicating with the coronary and left gastro-epiploic arteries. (d) The left gastro-epiploic artery runs from left to right along the great curvature of the stomach, supplying branches to both surfaces of the stomach and to the omentum on the left side, and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch from the hepatic artery. Varieties.—These are not frequent. The splenic artery has been seen to give off the left hepatic artery, the middle colic artery, and in one case, together with the last, the inferior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery (i) supplies the whole of the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half of the large intestine. It arises from the fore part of the aorta, a little below the coeliae axis, and under cover of the pancreas and splenic vein. Emerging below the pancreas, it crosses the left end of the third part of the duodenum, and descends between the layers of the mesentery. Much diminished in size owing to the large number of its branches, it inclines below towards the right iliac fossa, and ends near the junction of the ileum with the large intestine by inosculating with its own ileo-colic branch. Branches.—(a) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal, generally arising from the first intestinal branch and directed transversely to the right behind the main trunk, runs along the concave border of the duodenum, and joins with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. (b) The intestinal branches, supplying the jejunum and ileum, spring from the convex or left side of tire vessel. They are usually twelve or more in number, and are all included between the layers of the mesen- tery. They run parallel to one another for some distance, and then divide into two branches, each of which forms an arch with the neigh- bouring branch. From the first set of arches other branches issue, which divide and communicate in the same way, until finally, after forming from three to five such tiers of arches, the smaller as they arc nearer to the intestine, the ultimate divisions proceed directly to the intestine, spreading upon both sides, and ramifying in its coats. Small offsets are also furnished to the glands and other structures between the layers of the mesentery. (c) The colic branches arise from the right or concave side of the artery, and are usually three in number. 1. The ileo-colic artery, the first in order from below upwards, inclines downwards and to the right side, towards the caecum, and divides into two branches : one of these descends to inosculate with the termination of the mesenteric artery itself, and to form an arch, from the convexity of which branches proceed to supply the junction of the small with the large intestine, and the caecum and its appendix ; the other division440 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Fig. 265.—The superior mesenteric artery and its branches (from Tiedemann). | The transverse colon is turned upwards ; the jejunum and ileum are drawn to the left; and the posterior layer of the transverse mesocolon and the anterior layer of the mesentery are removed : a, descending part of the duodenum ; b, inferior transverse part; c, com- mencement of the jejunum ; c', c', jejunum and ileum ; d, termination of the ileum in the large intestine ; e, caecum ; f, vermiform appendix ; g, ascending colon ; h, transverse colon ; i, descending colon ; Tc, pancreas ; 1, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery ; 1', its termination where it inosculates with a branch of the ileo-colic artery; 2, 2, intes- tinal branches ; 2', 2', their loops in the mesentery ; 3, inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch, passing to the right to unite with 3', the branch from the gastro-duodenal; 4, middle colic branch ; 5, its left branch passing at 5', to unite with the branch of the left colic of the inferior mesenteric ; 6, its right branch ; 7, right colic and ileo-colic arteries in one trunk ; 8, right colic, uniting by a loop with the middle colic ; 9, ileo-colic, uniting with the end of the superior mesenteric artery. ascends and inosculates with the next mentioned branch. The ileo-colic artery is not always distinct from the termination of the superior mesenteric.MESENTERIC ARTERIES. 441 2. The right colic artery passes transversely towards the right side, beneath the peritoneum, to the middle of the ascending colon, opposite which it divides into two branches ; of these one descends to com- municate with the ileo-colic artery, while the other ascends to join in an arch with the middle colic. This artery and the ileo-colic often arise by a common trunk. 3. The middle colic artery runs forwards between the layers of the transverse mesocolon towards the transverse colon, and divides in a manner exactly similar to that of the vessels j ust noticed. One of its branches inclines to the right, where it inosculates with the preceding vessel; the other passes to the left side, and forms a similar communica- tion with the left colic branch, derived from the inferior mesenteric artery. From the arches of inosculation thus formed, small branches pass to the colon for the supply of its coats. Those branches of the superior mesenteric artery which supply the ascending colon have a layer of peritoneum only on their anterior aspect; the others lie between two strata. Varieties.—The number of the branches of the superior mesenteric artery, both intestinal and colic, is by no means constant. It also frequently gives off accessory branches to the neighbouring viscera; of these that to the liver is the most common. An offset of this artery may replace the gastro-duodenal or its chief branch, the right gastro-epiploic, or it may give accessory pancreatic and splenic branches (Hyrtl), or the artery to the gall-bladder. It has also been seen to give off the left colic artery, and in one case in which the inferior mesenteric was absent also the superior heemorrhoidal (Fleischmann). A rare anomaly is the presence of an omphalo-mesenteric artery, arising either from the main stem or from one of the branches of the superior mesenteric. In one case it ran directly to the umbilicus where it gave a branch to the urachus (Haller). In another it reached the anterior wall of the abdomen rather below the umbilicus, and after giving a branch to the rectus, which anastomosed with the deep epigas- tric, it terminated by ascending in the round ligament, and forming a capillary net- work in the falciform ligament of the liver (Hyrtl). The inferior mesenteric artery (iii-iv) arises from the front of the aorta between one and two- inches above its bifurcation, and supplies the lower half of the large intestine. Inclining slightly to the left, it passes downwards close to the aorta, gives off branches to the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure, and is continued under the name of superior hccmorrlioidal artery over the left common iliac vessels to the back of the rectum. Branches.—(a) The left colic artery is directed to the left side behind the peritoneum, and across the left kidney, to reach the descending colon. It divides into two branches, which form a series of arches in the same way as the colic vessels of the opposite side. One of these two branches passes upwards along the colon, and inosculates with the left branch of the middle colic ; while the other descends and anastomoses with the sigmoid artery. (b) The sigmoid artery runs obliquely downwards to the sigmoid flexure of the colon, where it divides into branches, which form arches like the other arteries ; the highest branch joins the left colic, the lower ones turn downwards to the rectum and anastomose with the following artery. Instead of a single sigmoid artery, two or three branches are sometimes present. (c) The superior hccmorrlioidal artery, the continuation of the inferior442 ARTERIES OP TIIE ABDOMEN. mesenteric, passes downwards, over the left common iliac artery and vein, into the pelvis behind the rectum, lying at first in the mesorectum, and then divides into two branches which extend one on each side of the Fig. 266. Fig. 266.—The inferior mesenteric artery (from Tiedemann). -} The jejunum and ileum with the superior mesenteric artery are turned towards the right side, the pancreas is exposed, and the large intestine is stretched out : a, b, duo- denum ; c, commencement of the jejunum ; d, d, jejunum and ileum ; e, ascending colon ; /, transverse colon ; //, descending colon ; h, sigmoid flexure ; i, commencement of the rectum ; k, pancreas ; 1, placed on the trunk of the abdominal aorta at the origin of the renal arteries ; 1', on the same at the origin of the inferior mesenteric ; 1", near the division into the common iliac arteries ; 2, inferior mesenteric, giving off the left colic ; 3, ascending branch of the left colic ; 4, 4, descending branch of the same ; 5, sigmoid artery; 6, superior hsemorrhoidal artery ; 7, trunk of the superior mesenteric, issuing from behind the pancreas ; 8, some of its intestinal branches; 9, middle colic artery; 10, its left branch, forming a loop of communication with the left colic; 11, its right branch ; 12, 12, spermatic arteries.SUPRARENAL AND RENAL ARTERIES. 443 intestine towards the lower end. About five inches from the anus these subdivide each into three or four branches which pierce the muscular coat some two inches lower down. In the wall of the intestine, these arteries, placed at regular distances from each other, descend between the mucous and muscular coats to the end of the gut, where they communi- cate in loops opposite the internal sphincter, and anastomose with the middle and inferior hgemorrhoidal arteries. Varieties.—Absence of the inferior mesenteric artery has been met with, its branches being given off by the superior mesenteric. It has also been found giving origin to the middle colic artery, and accessory branches to the liver and kidneys. A middle mesenteric artery, arising from the common iliac and supplying vessels to the transverse and descending colon, has been seen by Hyrtl (“ Lehrbuch,” 14th Ed., p. 1004). Anastomoses on the alimentary canal.—The arteries distributed to the alimentary canal communicate freely with each other over the whole length of that tube. The arteries of the great intestine, derived from the two mesenteric trunks, form a series of vascrdar arches along the colon and rectum, at the lower end of which they anastomose with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries, given off from the internal iliac and pudic arteries. The branches from the left side of the superior mesenteric form another series of arches along the small intestine, which is connected with the former by the ileo-colic artery. Farther, the inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch of the superior mesenteric joins upon the duodenum with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. The latter is derived from the same source as the pyloric artery ; and so likewise, through the coronary artery of the stomach and its ascending branches, a similar connection is formed with the oesophageal arteries, even up to the pharynx. The middle suprarenal or capsular arteries (vi) are two very small vessels which arise from the aorta ou a level with the superior mesenteric artery, and pass obliquely outwards upon the crura of the diaphragm to reach the suprarenal capsules, to which bodies they are distributed, anastomosing at the same time with the upper and lower suprarenal branches derived respectively from the phrenic and the renal arteries. In the foetus these arteries are relatively of large size. Varieties.—This artery is often very small, its place being supplied by the superior and inferior suprarenals. The middle suprarenal sometimes gives off the spermatic artery, more frequently on the left than on the right side. The renal or eniulgent arteries (ii), of large size in proportion to the bulk of the organs which they supply, arise from the sides of the aorta, about half an inch below the, superior mesenteric artery, that of the right side being generally a little lower down than that of the left. Each is directed outwards so as to form nearly a right angle with the aorta. In consequence of the position of the aorta upon the spine, the right renal artery has to run a somewhat longer course than the left, and it also crosses behind the inferior vena cava. Both right and left arteries are overlapped by the accompanying renal veins. Before reaching the hilus of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches, the greater number of which usually lie between the vein in front and the pelvis of the ureter behind. These branches, after having passed deeply into the sinus of the kidney, subdivide and are distributed in the gland, in the manner described in the account of the structure of that organ. Each renal artery, before entering the hilus of the kidney, furnishes one or two small branches to the suprarenal body (inferior suprarenalARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 114 arteries), to the ureter, to the lumbar lymphatic glands, and several twigs which ramify in the connective tissue and fat around the kidney. Varieties—The renal artery may he replaced by two, three, four, or even five branches; and great differences as to the origin of these vessels are found to exist even on opposite sides of the same body. As they usually arise in suc- cession from the aorta itself, it would seem as if the deviation were merely an increased degree of that condition in which the renal artery divides into branches sooner than usual after its origin. In some cases a renal artery has been seen to proceed from the aorta at its bifurcation, from the middle sacral artery, from the inferior mesenteric, from the common iliac, and in one case, described by Eustachius, from the internal iliac. Portal found in one instance the light and left renal arteries arising by a common trunk from the fore part of the aorta. The branches of the renal artery, instead of entering at the hilus, sometimes reach and penetrate the gland near its upper end, or on its anterior surface. The l ight renal artery has been seen to cross the vena cava in front instead of behind. Supernumerary branches are also frequently found. The most common are, the diaphragmatic arising in common with the inferior suprarenal, a hepatic branch from the right renal, branches to the small and large intestines, the middle suprarenal, the spermatic, and one or more lumbar arteries. Spermatic and ovarian arteries (v).—The spermatic arteries of the male, two small and very long vessels, arise close together from the fore part of the aorta a little below the renal arteries. Each artery is directed downwards and somewhat outwards, resting on the psoas muscle, that of the right side passing also in front of the inferior vena cava ; it crosses obliquely the ureter and the lower part of the external iliac artery, and reaches the internal abdominal ring. There it comes into contact with the vas deferens, and passes with the other constituents of the spermatic cord along the inguinal canal, forming anastomoses with the cremasteric branch of the epigastric artery. Issuing by the external abdominal ring, it descends to the scrotum, where it becomes tortuous, and, approaching the back part of the testis, divides into branches which pierce the fibrous capsule of that body. One or two branches ramify on the epi- didymis and anastomose with the artery of the vas deferens. In the female, the ovarian arteries, corresponding to the spermatic arteries in the male, are shorter than these vessels, and do not pass out of the abdominal cavity. The origin, direction, and connections of the artery in the first part of its course are the same as in the male ; but at the margin of the pelvis it inclines inwards, and, running tortuously be- tween the layers of the broad ligament of the uterus, is guided to the attached margin of the ovary, which it supplies with branches. One small offset extends along the round ligament into the inguinal canal, another along the Fallopian tube, and a third, of considerable size, running inwards towards the uterus, joins with the uterine artery. During pregnancy the ovarian artery becomes considerably enlarged. In early fcetal life the spermatic and ovarian arteries are short, as the testes and the ovaries are at first placed close to the kidneys, but the arteries become lengthened as these organs descend to their ultimate positions. Varieties.—The spermatic artery is frequently derived from the renal, occasion- ally from the suprarenal, on one side. The right and left arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk. Two spermatic arteries are not unfrequently met with on one side ; both of these usually arise from the aorta, though sometimes one is a branch of the renal artery. A case has occurred of three arteries on one side,—two from the aorta and the third from the renal (R. Quain, pi. 57, fig. 5.)445 INFERIOR PHRENIC ARTERIES. B.—PARIETAL BRANCHES OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. Inferior phrenic arteries (v).—The inferior phrenic or dia- phragmatic arteries are two small vessels, which arise, either separately or by a short common trunk, from the aorta on a level with the upper margin of its orifice in the diaphragm, or from one of the upper branches of the aorta, most frequently the coeliac axis. They soon diverge from each other, and, passing across the crura of the diaphragm, incline upwards and outwards on its under surface, the artery of the left side passing behind the (Esophagus, while that of the right side passes behind the vena cava. Before reaching the central tendon of the diaphragm, each of the arteries divides into two branches, of which one runs forwards to- wards the anterior margin of the thorax, and anastomoses with the corre- sponding artery of the opposite side, and with the superior phrenic and muscuio-phrenic branches of the internal mammary artery, while the other pursues a transverse direction towards the side of the thorax, and com- municates with the terminations of the lower intercostal arteries. Besides supplying the diaphragm, each phrenic artery gives small branches (superior suprarenal) to the suprarenal body of its own side ; the left artery sends some branches to the oesophagus, which anastomose with the other oesophageal arteries ; and the artery of the right side gives some twigs to the upper part of the vena cava. Small offsets pass also to the liver between the layers of the peritoneum, and anastomose with branches of the hepatic artery. Varieties.—The phrenic arteries vary greatly in their mode of origin, but these deviations seem to have little influence on their course and distribution. In the first place they may arise either separately, or by a common trunk; and it would appear that the latter mode of origin is nearly as frequent as the former. When the two arteries are joined at their origin, the common trunk arises most fre- quently from the aorta ; though, sometimes, it springs from the coeliac axis. When arising separately, the phrenic arteries are given off sometimes from the aorta, more frequently from the coeliac axis, and occasionally from the coronary artery of the stomach, or the renal; but it most commonly happens that the artery of the right side is derived from one, and that of the left side from another of these sources. One artery has also been seen arising from the superior mesenteric. In only one out of thirty-six cases observed by R. Quain did these arteries arise as two separate vessels from the abdominal aorta (op. cit. p. 417). An additional phrenic artery, derived from the left hepatic, has been met with (R. Quain, pi. 56, fig. 6). Lumbar arteries (iv-v).—The lumbar arteries resemble the inter- (ostal arteries, not only in then' mode of origin, but also in a great measure in the manner of their distribution. They arise from the back part of the aorta, and are usually five in number on each side. They pass out- wards, the first one over the body of the last dorsal vertebra, while the others rest on the upper four lumbar vertebrae, and soon dip deeply under the psoas muscle. The upper arteries are likewise behind the pillars of the diaphragm ; and those on the right side are covered by the vena cava. At the interval between the transverse processes, each lumbai artery divides into an abdominal and a dorsal branch. Branches.—{a) The abdominal branch runs outwards, generally behind the quadratus lumborum, but that of the first artery passes in front of this muscle with the anterior division of the last dorsal nerve, and a similar position is not unfrequently taken by one or two of the lowerARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 446 Fig. 267. Fig. 267.—The abdominal aorta and its principal branches (from Tiedemann). £ For the detailed description of this figure, see p. 434. 6, renal arteries ; 6', 6', middle suprarenal arteries, arising from the aorta ; the upper suprarenal arteries are seen pro- ceeding from the inferior phrenic ; 7, placed on the abdominal aorta below the origin of the spermatic arteries ; 7, 7', lower down, the same arteries descending on the psoas muscles and crossing the ureters, that on the left side entering the internal abdominalLUMBAR ARTERIES. 447 ring with the vas deferens i; 8, inferior mesenteric artery; 9, lumbar arteries; 9', a lowest lumbar artery, rising from the middle sacral 1', (see varieties of the latter vessel); 10, 10', right and left common iliac arteries; 11, 11, between the external and internal iliac arteries ; 12, left epigastric artery; 13, circumflex iliac artery. ones. Continuing outwards between the abdominal muscles, the vessel ramifies in their substance, and the several arteries form anastomoses with one another, with the branches of the epigastric and internal mam- mary in front, with the terminal branches of the lowest intercostals above, and with offsets of the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac arteries below. (b) The dorsal branch, like the posterior branch of an intercostal artery, gives oft' immediately after its origin an offset to the spinal canal, and then, proceeding backwards between the transverse processes with the posterior division of the corresponding spinal nerve, divides into smaller vessels which are distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The spinal branch enters the spinal canal through the corresponding intervertebral foramen, gives an offset which supplies the dura mater and ascends along the roots of the nerves to the spinal cord (see p. 393), and divides into two principal branches which are distributed to the bones and ligaments in the following manner :—one curves upwards on the back of the body of the vertebra above, near to the attachment of the pedicle, while the other descends in a similar manner on the vertebra below ; and each communicates with a corresponding branch from the neighbouring spinal artery. As this arrangement prevails on both sides and throughout the whole length of the spine, there is formed a double series of arterial arches behind the bodies of the vertebrae, the convexities of which are turned towards each other. From the arches on opposite sides offsets are directed inwards at intervals to reinforce a median longitudinal vessel, which extends along the spine like the single artery on the front of the spinal cord. The arches are moreover joined together across the bodies of the vertebra? by transverse branches. Other small twigs pass back- wards from the spinal branch, and anastomosing with their fellows form an irregular network on the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebrae and the ligamenta subflava. From these interlacements numerous minute ramifications proceed to the ligaments, the periosteum and the bones. Varieties.—The lumbar arteries of opposite sides, instead of taking their origin separately from the aorta, occasionally commence by a common trunk, the branches of which pass out laterally, and continue their course in the ordinary way. Two arteries of the same side are sometimes conjoined at their origin. One or both of the last pair of lumbar arteries may arise in common with the middle sacral. On the fifth lumbar vertebra, the place of a lumbar artery is often taken by a branch from the middle sacral artery, and the ilio-lumbar com- pensates for the absence of the lumbar vessel amongst the muscles. MINUTE ANASTOMOSES OF THE VISCEEAL AND PAEIETAL BEANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AOETA. The existence of minute anastomoses between some of the visceral branches of the abdominal aorta and those supplying the wall of the cavity has been recog- nised by several anatomists, but the extent and nature of these communications were first clearly demonstrated by W. Turner in a series of experimental injections, made with a view to their detection (Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., July, 1863).448 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. These anastomoses constitute a well-marked vascular plexus, situated in the subperitoneal tissue, which Turner calls the subperitoneal arterial plexus. It occupies the lumbar region from the diaphragm downwards into the iliac regions and pelvis, and establishes communication between the parietal vessels and those of the viscera, chiefly, though not exclusively, through branches of the arteries of those viscera which are situated behind the peritoneum. It belongs to the hepatic, the renal and suprarenal arteries, those of the pancreas and duodenum, the caecum, and the ascending and descending parts of the colon. It extends also to the vessels of the rectum, and to the spermatic arteries, both in their descent through the abdomen and in the inguinal canal and scrotum. In these situations it was found that the injected material (coloured gelatine) when thrown into the vessels of the viscus, so as to fill them completely, ex- tended through the subperitoneal plexus in various ways, so as to reach one or other set of parietal vessels, such as the phrenic, lumbar, ilio-lumbar, circumflex iliac, lower intercostal, and epigastric arteries; in the pelvis, the middle and lateral sacral arteries; and in the scrotum, the superficial pudic and perineal arteries. The more direct inosculations of the hasmorrhoidal arteries on the rectum with the inferior haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery are well known, and the importance of these and other similar anastomoses, as well as the more extensive and minute anastomosing plexus investigated by Turner, is obvious, with reference not merely to the nutrition of the subperitoneal tissue, but also to the debated question of the influence exerted by local superficial blood-letting on the state of the vessels of the deeper viscera. Middle sacral artery (iv).—The middle sacral artery arises from the back of the aorta just above the bifurcation. From this point it proceeds downwards, over the last lumbar vertebra and along the middle of the sacrum, to the front of the coccyx, where it forms slender arches of anas- tomosis with the lateral sacral arteries, and is then continued as a small vessel through the median aponeurosis of the levatores ani muscles to terminate in the coccygeal gland (see Yol. II., p. 197). From the front of the middle sacral artery small branches pass into the fold of the mesorectum, and ramify upon the posterior surface of the intestine, anastomosing with the hmmorrhoidal arteries; and on each side others spread out upon the sacrum, and anastomose with the lateral sacral arteries, occasionally sending small offsets into the anterior sacral foramina. Varieties.—The middle sacral artery sometimes deviates a little to one side. It may arise in common with one or both of the fifth pair of lumbar arteries, or from the bifurcation of the aorta, or'from one of the common iliac arteries, more frequently the left. It often gives off on each side a considerable branch (lowest lumbar artery'), which passes backwards on the fifth lumbar vertebra (fig. 267, 9'). The middle sacral artery has also been seen to furnish an accessory renal, or a middle hamiorrhoidal artery. This artery represents the caudal prolongation of the aorta of animals, and its lateral branches may be regarded as corresponding to the intercostal and lumbar arteries. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The common iliac arteries (11-12 mm.), commencing at the bifurca- tion of the aorta, pass downwards and outwards, diverging from each other at an angle which is slightly greater in the female than in the male, and divide opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation into the internal and external iliac arteries. The common iliac arteries measure generally about two inches in449 COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. length. Both are covered by the peritoneum and the small intestine, and are crossed by the branches of the sympathetic nerve which pass from the aortic to the hypogastric plexus, as well as usually by the ureter near their point of division ; the artery of the left side is crossed also by the superior hemorrhoidal vessels. The left common iliac artery lies close to the inner border of the psoas muscle, and rests upon the bodies of the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae ; the right artery is separated for the most part from these bones by the two common iliac veins, and touches the psoas muscle only at its lower end. The viscera of the pelvis have been re- moved, as well as the internal iliac veins; the larger nerves have been left: a, body of the fifth lumbar ver- tebra; b, anterior supe- rior spine of the ilium; c, left auricular surface of the sacrum ; c', third piece of the sacrum ; d, first piece of the coccyx; e, small sacro- sciatic ligament ; f, tuberosity of the is- chium, covered inter- nally by the great sacro-sciatic ligament; rj, aperture at the upper end of the obtu- rator foramen; i, ilia- cus muscle ; 1, abdo- minal aorta; 1', middle sacral artery ; 2, 2, common iliac arteries ; 2' right external iliac ; 3, inferior vena cava ; 4, 4, common iliac veins; the number on the right points by a line to the right internal iliac artery ; 4', right external iliac vein; 5, placed on the lumbo-sacral nervous trunk, points to the posterior division of the internal iliac artery continued into the gluteal; 5', ilio-lumbar artery ; 5", lateral sacral artery, with branches passing into the anterior sacral foramina; 6, placed on the anterior division of the first sacral nerve, points to the sciatic artery coming from the anterior division of the internal iliac ; 7, pudic artery ; 7', the same artery passing behind the spine of the ischium, and proceeding forwards on the inner side of the obturator internus muscle, accompanied by the pudic nerve, and giving off, near /, inferior hannorrhoidal branches ; 7", superficial perineal artery and nerve ; 8, obliterated hypogastric artery, cut short, and 8', superior vesical branches rising from it; 9, obturator artery with the correspond- ing nerve and vein ; 9', pubic twigs which anastomose with the pubic branch of the epi- gastric artery; 10, inferior vesical; 11, middle hemorrhoidal artery, rising in this instance from the pudic ; 12, epigastric artery, winding to the inner side of +, +, the vas deferens and spermatic cord; 13, circumflex iliac artery; 14, spermatic artery and vein divided superiorly; 15, twigs of the ilio-lumbar artery proceeding to anastomose with the circumflex iliac. VOL. I. Fig. 268.—The eight SIDE OF A MALE PELVIS SHOWING THE ILIAC ARTERIES AND THEIR BRANCHES. (A.T.) i Fig. 268. G G450 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Relation to veins.—The left common iliac vein lies to the inner side of and below the left artery. On the right side there are three veins in proximity to the artery ; the right common iliac vein lying behind the lower part of the vessel, the left common iliac vein crossing behind it above its middle, and the inferior vena cava, resulting from the union of the two others, being on the right side of the artery at its upper end. The common iliac artery usually does not furnish any named collateral branches. A few minute twigs are given to the psoas muscle, to the ureter, and to the neighbouring lymphatic glands. Varieties.—The place of division of these arteries is subject to great variety. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, it ranged between the middle of the last lumbar vertebra and the upper margin of the sacrum ; in one case in eight it was above, and in one case in six it was below that space. Most frequently the left artery was found to divide lower than the right (R. Quain). The length varies in most instances between an inch and a half and three inches, but it has been seen in some rare cases less than half an inch, and as long as four inches and a half. When longer than usual the artery is generally more or less tortuous. In two instances absence of one common iliac artery has been observed, the internal and external iliacs of that side springing directly from the end of the aorta (on the right side by Cruveilliier, “ Anatomie,” 5th Ed., iii., 150; on the left side by W. J. Walsham, St. Bartholomew’s Hosp. Rep. xvii., 1881). Branches.—The common iliac artery occasionally gives off the middle sacral, ilio-lumbar or upper lateral sacral artery, more rarely a lumbar or an accessoiy renal artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE COMMON ILIAC ARTERY. The common iliac artery may be reached in an operation by dividing the abdominal muscles in the lumbar region. A semilunar incision, having its convexity turned outwards, may be carried from a point an inch and a half to the inner side of the anterior superior iliac spine, upwards and somewhat out- wards, to near the lower margin of the thorax. The external oblique, internal oblique, and transversalis muscles are successively divided, together with the thin transversalis fascia ; the peritoneum, to which the ureter and spermatic vessels adhere closely, is next separated from the lateral abdominal wall and the surface of the psoas until the artery is reached; the areolar sheath is then scraped through and the ligature applied, the needle being passed on either side from right to left. It seldom happens that the common iliac artery is too short to allow of the application of a ligature, but if it were found to be less than an inch and a half in length, the external and internal iliac trunks might be secured close to the bifurcation. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the common iliac artery, blood is conveyed to the external iliac trunk through the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar arteries, and of the epigastric with the internal mammary ; to the internal iliac through the anastomoses of the middle with the lateral sacral arteries, of the lumbar with the ilio-lumbar, of the superior with the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal, and of the obturator and the arteries supplied to the pelvic viscera with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side. INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY (II). The internal iliac artery (hypogastric) extends from the bifurcation of the common iliac artery downwards towards the great sacro-sciatic fora- men, near the upper border of which it divides into branches. It is gene- rally from an inch to an inch and a half in length, and is smaller than the external iliac in the adult, but the reverse in the foetus. At its origin, the artery lies near the inner border of the psoas muscle ; lower down, it451 INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. rests against the sacrum and lumbo-sacral nervous cord. It is covered by the layer of peritoneum constituting the posterior false ligament of the bladder, and beneath this the ureter crosses it on the inner side. The companion vein lies behind, and somewhat to its inner side, and the com- mencement of the artery crosses the upper end of the external iliac vein. Branches.—-The branches of the internal iliac artery, though con- stant and regular in their general distribution, vary much in their mode of origin. They arise, in most instances, from two principal divisions of the parent trunk, of which one is anterior to the other. From the anterior division arise the superior vesical (connected with the pervious portion of the fcetal hypogastric artery), the inferior vesical (vaginal in the female), middle hamiorrhoidal, obturator, internal pudic, and sciatic arteries, and also, in the female, the uterine artery. The poster io) division gives off the ilio-lumbar and lateral sacral arteries, and is continued into the gluteal. Varieties.—Length.—The internal iliac artery has been found as short as half an inch, and sometimes as long as three inches, but it is not often less than an inch in length. Two instances are recorded in which this vessel was absent on the left side, and its branches were derived from a loop of the external iliac artery dipping down into the pelvis (Ellis, Eckhard). The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries generally bear an inverse proportion to each other— the internal iliac being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versa. More.over, when the common iliac is short, the internal iliac (arising higher than usual) is placed for some distance above the brim of the pelvis, and descends by the side of the external iliac to reach that cavity. The 'place of division of the internal iliac into its branches varies between the upper margin of the sacrum and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. Branches.—Sometimes all the branches of the internal iliac artery arise without the previous separation of that vessel into two portions. In more than a fourth of R. Quain’s cases a branch, most frequently the ilio- lumbar artery, arose from the internal iliac trunk before its subdivision. Hypogastric artery.—In the foetus, the hypogastric artery, retaining almost the full size of the common iliac, curves forwards from that artery to the side of the urinary bladder, and ascends on the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus. At that point the artery takes the name of umbilical, and the vessels of the two sides, coming into' contact with one another, and with the umbilical vein along with which they are spirally coiled, proceed in the umbilical cord to the placenta. After the cessation of the placental circulation at birth, the hypogastric arteries become impervious from the side of the bladder upwards to the umbilicus, and are converted into fibrous cords. These two cords, being shorter than the part of the peritoneum on which they rest, cause a fold of the serous membrane to project inwards ; and thus are formed two fossee at the fore part of the abdomen on each side of the middle line, in one or other of which the projection of an internal inguinal hernia takes place. The proximal part of the artery persists as the internal iliac, and the portion intervening between this and the side of the bladder remains pervious, although proportionally much reduced iu size, and forms the trunk of the superior vesical artery. BRANCHES OP THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 1. The superior vesical artery (v) is, at its commencement, that part of the hypogastric artery of the feetus which remains pervious after the changes that take place subsequently to birth. It divides into numerous branches which supply the apex and body of the bladder, and anastomose with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, as well as with the offsets of the inferior vesical artery. Anteriorly, small twigs ascend on the urachus to the abdominal wrall, and posteriorly, others supply the lower end of the ureter. One or more of the hindmost g g 2452 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. branches of this artery are sometimes described separately under the name of middle vesical. 2. The inferior vesical artery (v) (vesico-prostatic), derived usually from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is directed down- wards to the base of the bladder, where it ends in branches which are distributed to the lower part of that organ, to the prostate, and to the vesiculae seminales. The branches to the prostate communicate more or less freely upon that body with the artery of the opposite side, and by Fig. 269. Fig. 269.—View op the viscera op the male pelvis prom the left side, showing THE VESICAL AND PUDIC ARTERIES (from R. Quaill). y a, os pubis, divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; b, placed close to the upper part of the bladder, upon which lies the vas deferens ; c, placed on the upper part of the rectum, near the left ureter; c', at the junction of the middle and lower parts of the rectum, points to the vesicula seminalis ; c", anus ; d, bulb of the urethra ; e, crus penis divided; /, small sacro-sciatic ligament, attached to the spine of the ischium; 1, common iliac artery; 2, internal iliac artery; S, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, common trunk of the sciatic and pudic arteries ; 4', sciatic artery, cut as it is passing out of the great sacro- sciatic foramen ; 5, placed on the divided surface of the ischial spine, points to the pudic artery as it is about to enter the perineum by the small sacro-sciatic foramen ; 5', superficial perineal branch of the pudic; 5", pudic artery, giving off the artery of the bulb, and proceeding at 6, to divide into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis ; 7, placed on the middle part of the rectum, points to the descending branches of the superior hsemorrhoidal artery; 8, 8, ramifications of the superior vesical artery; 9, inferior vesical artery, of considerable size in this instance, giving branches to the bladder, the vesicula seminalis, the rectum (middle kremorrhoidal), and 9', to the prostate gland. small descending twigs also with the arteries of the perineum (Haller). It occasionally happens that one of the latter offsets is much enlarged, and replaces one or more branches of a defective pudic artery, as will be more fully noticed in the description of that vessel. One slender but constant branch, the artery of the vas deferens (vi), arising from either the superior or inferior vesical artery, sends one or more twigs downwards to the lower part of the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis, and is then continued forwards along the vasBRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 453 deferens, in company with which it descends in the spermatic cord as far as the testicle, where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This branch may reinforce or even replace the last-mentioned vessel. Besides the superior and inferior vesical arteries, other small offsets are frequently furnished to the bladder from the obturator, sciatic, or other branches of the internal iliac artery. The vaginal artery (v) (vesico-vaginal) in the female corresponds to the inferior vesical artery in the male. Arising from the anterior Fig. 270. Fig. 270.—The arteries op the female pelvis, as seen on the removal of the left hip-bone, '&c. (from R. Quain). J a, auricular surface of the sacrum ; 6, spine of tlie ischium with the small sacro-sciatic ligament; c, os pubis, divided a little to the left of the symphysis ; d, on the sigmoid part of the colon, and d', on the lower part of the bladder, point to the ureter ; e, on the upper part of the body of the uterus, points to the ovary; /, on the upper part of the bladder, points to the Fallopian tube; /', round ligament of the uterus; 1, external iliac artery cut short; 2, internal iliac artery ; 3, gluteal artery cut short ; 4, 4, left pudic artery from which a part has been removed ; 4', the same artery in the perineum, and 4", its last part, proceeding to divide into the dorsal and deep arteries of the clitoris ; 5, placed on the sacral nerves, points to the sciatic artery; 6, vaginal artery, giving off branches to the bladder 6', and to the rectum 6"; 7, uterine artery; 8, superior vesical, and 8', obliterated hypogastric artery; 9, 9, ovarian artery, descending from tlie aorta; 10 superior hemorrhoidal artery, spreading over the side of the rectum. division of the internal iliac, or frequently from the uterine artery, it descends and ramifies upon the vagina, sending at the same time offsets to the lower part of the bladder, to the bulb of the vestibule, and to the contiguous part of the rectum. It anastomoses behind the vagina with the corresponding artery of the opposite side. 3. The middle hemorrhoidal artery (v) is frequently derived from the inferior vesical or the internal pudic artery. It ramifies on the lower part of the rectum, and anastomoses with the other hemorrhoidal and the inferior vesical arteries.ARTERIES OP THE ABDOMEN. 454 4. The uterine artery (v) is directed inwards from the anterior division of the internal iliac towards the neck of the uterus. Insinuating itself between the layers of the broad ligament, it passes upwards on the side of the uterus, pursuing an exceedingly tortuous course, and sends off numerous branches, winch ramify on the anterior and posterior surfaces and in the substance of that organ. Near its termination it is joined by a branch of the ovarian artery, forming an arch from which offsets proceed to the Fallopian tube and the round ligament of the uterus. During pregnancy the uterine artery becomes much enlarged. 5. The obturator artery (iv), while it usually arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, is not unfrequently derived from the posterior division of that vessel. It is directed downwards and forwards a little below the ilio-pectineal line, resting upon the obturator portion of the pelvic fascia, and covered by the peritoneum. The obturator nerve is a little way above, and the companion vein is below the artery. Reaching the upper part of the thyroid foramen, it passes through a short canal formed by the groove on the under surface of the superior ramus of the pubis and the arched border of the obturator fascia (p. 336), and divides immediately into internal and external ter- minal branches, which descend on the surface of the obturator membrane, beneath the obturator externus muscle. Branches.—(a) Within the pelvis, besides other small muscular offsets, the obturator artery furnishes an iliac branch which ramifies in the iliac fossa, supplying the ilio-psoas muscle and anastomosing with the ilio- lumbar artery, and sometimes a branch to the urinary bladder. (b) One or two small pubic branches are given off by the artery as it is about to leave the pelvis : these vessels ramify on the back of the pubis, and communicate behind the bone and the attachments of the abdominal muscles with the pubic branch of the epigastric artery, and with the corresponding offsets of the opposite side. (c) The internal terminal branch, turning downwards close to the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, furnishes offsets to the obturator muscles and to the upper ends of the adductors, and anastomoses with branches of the internal circumflex artery. (d) The external terminal branch descends near the outer margin of the thyroid foramen, sends a small offset inwards to anastomose with the lower part of the internal branch, and then, inclining outwards in the groove below the acetabulum, is distributed to the muscles arising from the ischial tuberosity and anastomoses with branches of the sciatic artery. It also gives twigs to the obturator muscles; and one small branch, entering the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, supplies the fat and synovial membrane at the bottom of the acetabulum, and ramifies in the interarticular ligament as far as the head of the femur. Varieties.—The obturator artery frequently has its origin transferred to the commencement of the epigastric artery, and sometimes to the external iliac near its termination. In 361 cases observed by R. Quain, the origin of the obturator artery took place as follows. In the proportion of 2 cases out of 3, it arose from the internal iliac ; in 1 case out of 3)r, from the epigastric ; in a very small number of cases (about 1 in 72) it arose by two roots, one from each of the above-named vessels ; and in about the same proportion, from the external iliac artery. Sometimes the obturator artery arises from the epigastric on both sides of the same body, but in the majority of instances this mode of origin of the vessel is met with only on one side.455 OBTURATOR ARTERY. When the obturator artery arises from the epigastric, it turns backwards into the pelvis to reach the canal at the upper part of the thyroid foramen ; and in this course it is necessarily close to the crural ring, the opening situated at the inner side of the external iliac vein, through which hernial protrusions descend from the abdomen into the thigh. Out of 101 cases observed by R. Quain, the artery turned backwards close to the external iliac vein, and therefore on the outer side of the crural ring, in 54 ; it passed backwards across the ring in 37 ; and in the remaining 10 it was directed at first inwards, and then arched backwards on the inner side of the ring : the point at which this artery separated from the epigastric was not found to exercise any influence upon its relation to the crural ring (oj?. cit., pp. 451-451). It is when the artery is placed on the inner side of tho ring that it is liable to be wounded in the operation for dividing the stricture in a femoral hernia. The anastomosis which normally exists between the pubic branches of the obturator and epigastric arteries explains the nature of the change which takes place when the origin of the obturator artery is transferred from the one place to the other. In such cases one of the anas- tomosing vessels may be supposed to have become enlarged, and the poste- rior or proper root of the obturator artery to have remained undeveloped or to have become obliterated in a proportionate degree. The obturator artery has also been seen to arise from the upper part of the femoral, either alone or in conjunction with the internal circumflex artery, in which case it arches backwards over the superior ramus of the pubis, and through the crural ring, to reach the thyroid foramen. In a few cases the obturator artery has been observed giving off the epigastric artery, an accessory pudic artery (within the pelvis), or the dorsal artery of the penis (in the thyroid foramen). Fig. 271, A. and B.—Views OP THE LEFT HIP-BONE, WITH THE ATTACHED ABDO- MINAL MUSCLES, FROM THE INSIDE, SHOWING DIFFERENT POSITIONS OF THE ABERRANT OBTURATOR ARTERY. (R Quain.) -J In A, the aberrant artery passes to the outer side of a femoral hernia ; in B, it sur- rounds the neck of the sac. a, rectus muscle ; b, iliacus muscle ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, obturator membrane ; e, placed on the transversalis fascia, points to the vas deferens passing through the internal abdominal ring ; f, testicle; +, neck of a femoral hernial sac ; 1, external iliac artery ; 2, external iliac vein; below 2, the obturator nerve ; 3, epigastric artery, giving off 4, the aberrant obturator artery. Fig. 271.ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 456 6. The internal pudic artery (iv), one of the terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, is distributed to the perineum and the external organs of generation. The following description of the artery has reference to its arrangement in the male, and the differences which it presents in the female will be afterwards pointed out. From its origin in front of the pyriformis muscle, the pudic artery descends along with the sciatic artery, and leaves the pelvis by the lower Fig. 272.—The arteries of the male pelvis, as seen on the removal of the left hip-bone, &c. (from R. Quain). | a, external oblique muscle divided ; b, internal oblique ; c, transversalis; d, d, the parts of the divided rectus ; e, psoas magnus divided ; /, placed on the auricular surface of the sacrum, points to the sacral plexus of nerves ; y, placed on the 03 pubis, sawn through a little to the left of the symphysis, points to the divided spermatic cord ; h, crus penis divided ; i, bulb of the urethra ; k, external sphincter muscle ; l, spine of the ischium with the small sacro-seiatic ligament; m, peritoneum ; n, upper part of the urinary bladder ; n', vas deferens ; n", ureter ; o, o, intestines ; 1, common iliac artery; 2, external iliac ; 3, internal iliac ; 4, obliterated hypogastric and superior vesical arte- ries ; 5, middle vesical; 6, inferior vesical artery; 7, placed on the sacral plexus, points to the common trunk of the pudic and sciatic arteries ; close above 7, the gluteal artery is seen cut short; 8, sciatic artery cut short; 9, placed on the rectum, the pudic artery as it is about to pass behind the spine of the ischium; 9', on the lower part of the rectum, the inferior hemorrhoidal branches; 9", the superficial perineal artery; 9"', placed on the prostate gland, the pudic artery in the fore part of the perineum, giving off the artery of the bulb, and finally dividing into the artery of the corpus cavernosurn and the dorsal arteiy of the penis; 10, placed on the middle part of the rectum, the superior hsemor- rhoidal arteiy. part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. Then curving gradually for- wards, it crosses over the ischial spine and passes through the small sacro-sciatic foramen into the posterior division of the perineal space, where it lies along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being placed from an inch to an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity. Continuing its course forwards, it gradually approaches the margin of the ischial ramus, penetrates the base of the triangular ligament.INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 457 und runs between the layers of that structure to near the apex of the sub- pubic arch. Close to the ramus of the pubis it perforates the inferior layer of the triangular ligament, and ends under cover of the crus penis by divid- ing into the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the dorsal artery of the penis. The pudic artery is accompanied throughout its course by the vein of the same name. Within the pelvis, the pudic artery rests against the rectum internally, and the sacral plexus of nerves intervenes between it and the pyriformis muscle. Over the ischial spine, the artery is covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, and the pudic nerve lies to its inner side. In the ischio-rectal fossa, the artery is contained in the substance of the obtu- rator fascia, the dorsal nerve of the penis being above, and the perineal branch of the pudic nerve below it ; and between the layers of the triangular ligament, it is embedded, in company with the dorsal nerve of the penis, in the tendinous origin Of the constrictor urethrae muscle. Branches.—From the part of the artery within the pelvis small offsets proceed to the obturator internus, pyriformis, and coccygeus muscles. As the artery crosses the ischial spine it gives off branches to the adjacent part of the gluteus maximus, and other twigs which supply the external rotator muscles and anastomose with offsets of the sciatic artery. In the perineum the following larger branches arise :— (a) The inferior or external hcemorrhoidal artery, often represented by two or three separate branches, arises from the pudic artery as it enters the perineal space. Directed inwards through the fat of the ischio-rectal fossa towards the anus, it divides into branches which supply the super- ficial structures of the posterior part of the perineum, the sphincter and levator ani muscles, and anastomose with the other hemorrhoidal arteries as well as with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side. Small off- sets also turn round the border of the gluteus maximus and supply the overlying integument, while others pass forwards and communicate with the superficial perineal artery. (1) The superficial perineal artery (v) arises from the pudic at the fore part of the ischio-rectal fossa. Crossing over or under the transversus perinei muscle, it runs forwards beneath the superficial perineal fascia, in company with the nerves of the same name, gives offsets to the sub- jacent muscles, and divides into long slender branches which supply the back of the scrotum and anastomose with the external pudic branches of the femoral artery. (c) The transverse perineal artery (vi) generally arises in common with the preceding, but it is sometimes a distinct branch of the pudic artery. Passing inwards towards the central point of the perineum, it supplies the parts between the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side. (d) The artery of the lullb (v) arises from the pudic near the point where that vessel enters between the layers of the triangular ligament. It runs inwards between the fibres of the constrictor urethrae muscle, being placed usually about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, and penetrates the bulb to be distributed to the erectile tissue of the corpus spongiosum. It gives branches to Cowper’s gland, and to the membranous part of the urethra. Another smaller branch to the corpus spongiosum is frequently given off by the pudic artery near its bifurcation, or by the artery of the corpus cavernosum.ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 458 (e) Tlie artery of the corpus cavernosum (art. profunda penis) (v) is slightly the larger of the two terminal branches of the .pudic trunk. It penetrates the inner side of the crus penis, and is continued forwards in the centre of the corpus cavernosum to the anterior extremity ot that body, giving off in its course numerous offsets to the erectile tissue. This drawing is made from a preparation upon a modification of the plan of R. Quain’s 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side shows a superficial, the left a deeper view. a, anus, with a part of the integument surround- ing it; b, left half of the bulb of the urethra, ex- posed by the removal of the bulbo-cavernosus mus- cle ; c, coccyx ; d, right tuberosity of the ischium ; e, e, superficial perineal fascia; /, fat occupying theright ischio-rectal fossa; gluteus maximus mus- cle ; 1, placed on the right transversus iierinei muscle, points to the su- perficial perineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle ; 1', on the left side, placed on the surface of the tri- angular ligament, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short; 2, on the right ischio-cavernosus muscle, points to the super- ficial perineal artery and nerves passing forwards; 2', on the left side, the same vessel and nerves divided ; 3, on the right half of the triangular liga- ment, points to the trans- verse perineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, points to the pudic artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa; 5, 5', inferior hemorrhoidal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the inferior layer of the triangular ligament has been removed, in order to show the continuation of the pudic artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper’s glands. Fig. 273. Fig. 273.—Dissection op THE PERINEUM IN THE MALE. (A. T.) i (/) The dorsal artery of the penis (v) ascends to the upper surface of that organ between the crus and the pubic symphysis. After piercing the suspensory ligament, the artery runs forwards, between the median dorsal vein and the corresponding nerve, to the neck of the penis, where it ends in offsets to the glans and the prepuce. It supplies the integument of the penis, and several branches pass through the fibrous sheath of the corpus cavernosum to the spongy tissue in its interior, andINTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY. 459 anastomose with the offsets of the deep artery. The right and left dorsal arteries communicate freely together in the glans penis. Varieties—The pudic artery is sometimes small, and fails to supply one or two, or even three of its usual branches, which, in those circumstances, are furnished by a supplemental vessel, the accessory pudic. The defect most frequently met with is that in which the pudic ends as the artery of the bulb, while the arteries of the corpus cavernosum and dorsum of the qonis are derived from the accessory pudic. But all the three arteries of the penis may be supplied by the accessory pudic, the pudic itself ending as the superficial perineal. A single accessory pudic has been found to supply both cavernous arteries, while the pudic of the right side gave both dorsal arteries (R. Quain, pi. 63, fig. 5). On the other hand, cases have occurred in which only a single branch was furnished by the accessory artery, either to take the place of an ordinary branch altogether wanting, or to supplement one of the branches which was diminutive in size. The accessory pudic artery generally arises from the pudic itself, before the passage of that vessel through the sacro-sciatic foramen, and descends within the pelvis, along the lower part of the urinary bladder and across the side of the prostate gland, to reach the root of the penis by perforating the triangular ligament in front of the membranous part of the urethra. Less frequently the accessory pudic is derived from the inferior vesical (p. 452), or from some other branch of the internal iliac artery. It may also arise from the obturator artery within the pelvis, that vessel taking origin either from the internal iliac or the epigastric artery, and in a few cases it has been given off by the epigastric artery directly. B;ranches.—The artery of the bulb is sometimes small, sometimes wanting on one side, and occasionally it is double. But a more important deviation from the common condition is one sometimes met with, in which the vessel, arising earlier, and crossing the perineum farther back than usual, reaches the bulb from behind. In such a case there is considerable risk of dividing the artery in per- forming the lateral operation for stone. On the other hand, when this vessel arises from an accessory pudic artery, it lies farther forwards than usual, and is out of danger in case of operation. The dorsal artery of the penis has been observed to arise from the obturator artery in the thyroid foramen, from one of the external pudic branches of the femoral, or from the deep femoral artery (Tiedemann, tab. 33, fig. 1). This branch is sometimes small on one side, the deficiency being supplied by the opposite artery. The two dorsal arteries are occasionally united by a cross branch, and they have been seen uniting into a common trunk on the dorsum of the penis. The pudic artery in the female.—In the female this vessel is much smaller than in the male. It takes a similar course, but the following branches differ in their size and distribution from the corresponding arteries in the male. The superficial perineal artery is larger than in the male, and is distributed to the labia pudendi. The artery of the lull) is small, and supplies the bulb of the vestibule. The two terminal branches are much smaller than in the male. The artery of the corpus cavernosum (art. profunda clitoridis) enters that body; and the dorsal artery of the clitoris passes forwards between the crura clitoridis and terminates in the glans and in the membranous fold corresponding to the prepuce of the male. 7. The sciatic artery (iv), the larger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac, is distributed chiefly to the muscles on the back of the pelvis. It descends on the anterior surface of the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus of nerves, and issues by the lower part of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, in company with the pudicARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 460 artery and the sciatic nerves. Continuing its course downwards, under cover of the gluteus maximus and resting upon the obturator internus and gemelli muscles, it ends as a slender vessel which accompanies the small sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh, supplying the integument and anastomosing with superficial branches of the perforating arteries. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches pass to the lower part of the gluteus maximus, anastomosing in the muscle with the gluteal artery; to the external rotator muscles, anastomosing with twigs of the pudic artery ; and to the muscles arising from the ischial tuberosity, anastomosing with the obturator and internal circumflex arteries. Fig. 274. Fig. 274.—Arteries op the back op the pelvis (from Tiedemann). J a, crest of the ilium ; b, tuber- osity of the ischium ; c, great tro- chanter ; d, integument round the anus ; e, great sciatic nerve ; 1, trunk of the gluteal artery as it issues from the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the superficial part is cut short, the deep part is seen passing forwards on the surface of the gluteus minimus muscle ; 2, placed on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the pudic artery at the place where it winds over the spine of the ischium.; 2', the continua- tion of the artery in the perineum ; 3, 3, sciatic artery; the upper figure points to the trunk of the vessel, from which the anastomotic branch is seen running outwards towards the great trochanter ; the lower figure indicates the continuation of the artery along the back of the thigh ; 4, first perforating artery. (b) The coccygeal branch, inclining inwards, pierces the great sacro- sciatic ligament, and is distributed mainly to the gluteus maximus, two or three offsets perforating that muscle and ramifying in the subcutaneous tissue over the sacrum and coccyx. (c) The anastomotic branch, directed outwards to the hollow on the inner side of the great trochanter, supplies the external rotator muscles and the hip-joint, and anastomoses with offsets of the gluteal artery, with the ascending branch of the internal circumflex artery, and with the first perforating artery. {cl) The comes nervi ischiadici (vi) enters the great sciatic nerve, which it supplies, and anastomoses with twigs of the perforating arteries. (e) Several cutaneous branches pass to the integument at the lower border of the gluteus maximus, along with branches of the small sciatic nerve. Varieties.—The sciatic artery occasionally arises in common with the gluteal, leaving that vessel outside the pelvis, at the upper border of the pyriformh muscle. In a few cases this artery has been found much enlarged, and formingBRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 461 the main artery of the limb (see varieties of the femoral artery). The covies nervi iscliiadici has been seen by Hyrtl of large size, and continued along the thigh to join the popliteal artery, a little above the knee-joint (Wiener Denkschriften,' xxiii., 1864). 8. The gluteal artery (iii), the largest branch of the internal iliac, is distributed to the muscles on the outer side of the pelvis. It passes backwards between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve, turns round the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and divides opposite the interval between the gluteus rnedius and pyriformis muscles into a superficial and a deep part. Before leaving the pelvis the gluteal artery gives some twigs to the pyriformis and obturator internets muscles, and one or two branches to the hip-bone. (a) The superficial part, the smaller of the two divisions, passes back- wards between the contiguous borders of the gluteus rnedius and pyriformis muscles, and divides into a number of branches, which are distributed to the gluteus maximus, and anastomose with the sciatic and the posterior branches of the lateral sacral arteries. (b) The deep part divides again into two branches, which run forwards between the gluteus rnedius and minimus muscles. The superior branch courses along the upper border of the gluteus minimus towards the anterior superior iliac spine, and, after supplying the muscles between which it is placed, anastomoses with the ascending branch of the external circumflex artery, as well as with the deep circumflex iliac by means of branches which perforate the origin of the gluteus rnedius, and ascend over the iliac crest. The inferior branch crosses the middle of the gluteus minimus, distributes offsets to the smaller gluteal muscles and the hip- joint, and anastomoses with the external circumflex and sciatic arteries. Variety.—One instance is recorded in which the gluteal artery was replaced by a large branch arising from the femoral and passing outwards and backwards to reach the gluteal muscles (F. T. Roberts, Liverpool Med. and Surg. Rep., 1867). 9. The ilio-lumbar artery (v) resembles in a great measure one of the lumbar arteries. It is a short vessel which passes outwards, between the obturator nerve and the lumbo-sacral cord, to the upper end of the ilio-pectineal line, where it divides, behind the inner margin of the psoas muscle, into lumbar and iliac branches. The lumbar or ascending branch turns upwards under cover of the psoas, to which and to the quadratus lumborum it is mainly distributed, and anastomoses with the lower lumbar arteries. A spinal branch is sent inwards through the last intervertebral foramen, and is distributed like the spinal offsets of the lumbar arteries. The iliac or transverse branch is directed outwards into the iliac fossa, and ramifies partly beneath, partly on the surface of the iliacus muscle, giving offsets to the bone, and forming anastomoses with the obturator, circumflex iliac, and lumbar arteries. Varieties.—The ilio-lumbar artery frequently arises from the internal iliac above the division of that trunk ; more rarely from the common iliac. The iliac and lumbar portions sometimes arise separately from the parent trunk. 10. The lateral sacral arteries (v) are usually two in number on each side, although occasionally they are united into one. They arise close together from the posterior division of the internal iliac. Both arteries incline somewhat inwards and descend on the front of the sacrum,•162 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. intern?! to the anterior sacral foramina. The superior artery is confined to the upper part of the sacrum ; the inferior passes downwards to the front of the coccyx, and terminates by anastomosing with offsets of the middle sacral artery. From the lateral sacral arteries small offsets proceed outwards to the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and to the sacral nerves, anastomosing with one another round the foramina. Others are directed inwards and anastomose with branches of the middle sacral artery. The largest branches pass backwards into the anterior sacral foramina, supply twigs to the sacral canal, and are continued through the posterior foramina to the muscles and integuments on the back of the sacrum, anastomosing with the gluteal and sciatic arteries. EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external or anterior of the two arteries resulting from the division of the common iliac forms a large continuous trunk, which extends down- wards in the limb as far as the lower border of the popliteus muscle, but, for convenience of description, it is named in successive parts of its course external iliac, femoral, and popliteal. Fig. 275. Fig. 275.— The iliac ARTERIES OP THE RIGHT SIDE, IN THE MALE. (A. T.) ^ For tlie detailed de- scription of this figure, see p. 449. 2', ex- ternal iliac artery, accompanied by 4', the corresponding vein ; 12, epigastric artery, winding to the inner side of +, +, the spermatic cord, and sending downwards its pubic branch to join 9', the pubic offsets of the obturator artery; the epigastric artery is cut short superiorly; 13, circumflex iliac artery, anastomosing with 15, branches of the ilio-lumbar ; 14, spermatic vessels, de- scending to join the spermatic cord ; +, within the pelvis, the vas deferens descend- ing from the cord. The external iliac artery (9-10 mm.) is placed within the abdomen, and extends from the bifurcation of the common iliac to the lower border of Poupart’s ligament, where the vessel enters the thigh, and is named femoral. It is larger than the internal iliac, and measures usually from tln-ee and a half to four inches in length. Inclining obliquely outwards, its463 EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. course, together with that of the common iliac artery, may be marked by a line drawn on the surface of the abdomen from the place of division of the aorta, i.e., a spot about a finger’s breadth to the left of and below the umbilicus, to a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. The upper third of this line would lie over the common iliac, the lower two-thirds over the external iliac artery. In its course downwards and forwards, the external iliac artery is situated a little above the brim of the pelvis, and rests for the most part against the inner border of the psoas, but near Poupart’s ligament it passes on to the front of that muscle. It is, however, separated from the muscle by the iliac fascia, to which it is bound, together with the companion vein, by the subperitoneal tissue. The artery is covered by peritoneum, and crossed on the left side by the sigmoid flexure of the colon, on the right by the termination of the ileum. The ureter, as it descends into the pelvis, sometimes passes over the upper end of the vessel. Relation to veins, &c.—The ex- ternal iliac vein lies at first behind the artery with an inclination to the inner side ; but, as the vessels approach Poupart’s ligament at the fore part of the pelvis, the vein is on the same plane with the artery and quite to the inner side, being carried forwards by the bone. At a short distance from its lower end the artery is crossed by the cir- cumflex iliac vein. Fig. 276.—The distribution and anas- tomoses OP THE EPIGASTRIC AND IN- TERNAL mammary arteries (from Tiede- mann). £ For the detailed description of this figure, see p. 399. 7, on the transversalis muscle above the internal abdominal ring, points to the last part of the external iliac artery, at the place where it gives origin to 8, the epigastric, and 9, the circumflex iliac ar- tery; 10, anastomosis of the epigastric with the abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery ; 11, spermatic cord, re- ceiving the cremasteric branch from the epigastric artery ; 12, femoral artery; 13, femoral vein; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the crural ring. Fig. 276.464 ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. Large lymphatic glands are found resting upon the front and inner side of the artery ; and the spermatic (or ovarian) vessels, together with the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve, descend over it near its termination. Branches.—The external iliac artery supplies small twigs to the psoas muscle and the neighbouring lymphatic glands, and, close to its termi- nation, two branches of considerable size, viz., the epigastric and the circumflex iliac, which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. 1. The deep epigastric artery (iv) (inferior epigastric) arises from the inner and fore part of the external iliac, usually a few lines above Poupart’s ligament. It is at first directed inwards for a short distance between Poupart’s ligament and the internal abdominal ring, and then ascends on the inner side of that aperture, being covered by the transver- salis fascia and resting on the peritoneum. As it turns round the internal abdominal ring, the artery is crossed on its outer side, in the male by the vas deferens and the spermatic vessels, which here meet to form the spermatic cord, in the female by the round ligament of the uterus. Continuing its course upwards, the vessel perforates the transversalis fascia and passes over the semilunar fold of Douglas to enter the sheath of the rectus, becoming closely applied to the back of that muscle. It finally divides, somewhat above the level of the umbilicus, into a number of branches which supply the rectus, and anastomose freely in the muscle with the abdominal branch of the internal mammary artery. The epigastric artery is accompanied by two veins, which unite into a single trunk before ending in the external iliac vein. Branches.—These are small but numerous. («) The cremasteric artery (vi) descends on the spermatic cord, and, be- sides supplying the cremaster muscle and other coverings of the cord, anastomoses with the spermatic and external pudic arteries. (5) The pubic branch (vi) ramifies behind the pubis, and communicates with the corresponding artery of the opposite side, as well as with the pubic branch of the obturator artery. (c) Muscular branches, which arise mainly from the outer side of the epigastric artery, ramify in the broad muscles of the abdomen, and anastomose with branches of the circumflex iliac, lumbar, and lower intercostal arteries. (d) Superficial branches perforate the rectus muscle, and anastomose beneath the skin Avith branches of the superficial epigastric artery. 2. The deep circumflex iliac artery (v) arises from the outer side of the external iliac, generally a little below the origin of the epigastric artery. It runs upwards and outwards behind Poupart’s ligament, resting on the iliacus muscle, and being contained in a fibrous canal at the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, as far as the anterior superior iliac spine. From this point the artery is continued backwards along the inner margin of the iliac crest, giving branches to the iliacus and lateral abdominal muscles, and ends by anastomosing with the iliac branch of the ilio-lumbar artery. Some small branches also pierce the muscles attached to the crest of the ilium and communicate with offsets of the gluteal artery. From the first part of the circumflex iliac artery branches are given to the ilio-psoas, and to the upper ends of the sartorius and tensor vaginae femoris muscles. One considerable branch, sometimes replaced however by two or three smaller ones, arises near the anterior superior spine, and ascends between the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, supplyingEXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 465 the abdominal wall, and anastomosing with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. Two veins accompany the circumflex iliac artery ; these unite below into a single vessel, which crosses the external iliac artery about three quarters of an inch above Poupart’s ligament, and joins the external iliac vein. Varieties.—Size.—In those rare cases in which tlic principal vessel of tlie lower limb is continued from the sciatic branch of the internal iliac artery, the external iliac is much diminished in size, and ends in the profunda artery of the thigh. Branches.—The usual number of two principal branches of the external iliac artery may be increased by the separation of the circumflex iliac into two branches, or by the addition of a branch usually derived from another source, such as the internal circumflex artery of the thigh, or the obturator artery, or very rarely the deep femoral artery. The deep epigastric artery occasionally arises higher than usual, as at an inch and a half, or even two inches and a half, above Poupart’s ligament; and it has been seen to arise below that ligament from the femoral, or from the deep femoral artery. The epigastric frequently furnishes the obturator artery as already described (p. 454), and a few examples are recorded in which the epigastric artery arose from an obturator furnished by the internal iliac artery. In a single instance the epigastric artery was represented by two branches, one arising from the external iliac, and the other from the internal iliac artery (Lauth, in Velpeau’s “ Medecine Operatoire,” v. ii., p. 452). Some combinations of the epigastric with the internal circumflex, or with the circumflex iliac, or with both those vessels, have been noticed. The deep circumflex iliac artery sometimes deviates from its ordinary position, —arising at a distance not exceeding an inch above Poupart’s ligament. Devia- tions in the opposite direction are not so frequent, but it is occasionally found arising below the ligament, from the femoral artery. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. The external iliac artery is usually tied about midway between its commence- ment and the origin of the epigastric artery. It may be exposed by a curved incision, about four inches in length, commencing about an inch above and a little outside the middle of Poupart’s ligament, and terminating about an inch above the anterior superior iliac spine. After dividing carefully the integument, the abdominal muscles, and transversalis fascia, the peritoneum (to which the spermatic vessels adhere) is raised from the iliac fossa, and the artery is found at the margin of the pelvis, lying along the inner border of the psoas muscle. The vein is close to the artery, on its posterior and inner aspect. In order to pass the ligature, it is necessary to divide the layer of subperitoneal tissue which binds the vessel down to the iliac fascia. Collateral circulation.—After ligature of the external iliac artery, blood is conveyed to the lower end of that vessel through the anastomoses of the epi- gastric with the internal mammary, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar and ilio-lumbar arteries; to the femoral trunk also by the anastomoses of the branches of the deep femoral artery with,the branches of the internal iliac, viz., the internal circumflex with the obturator and sciatic arteries, the external circumflex with the gluteal, and the perforating arteries with the sciatic. FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral artery is that portion of the artery of the lower limb which lies in the upper three-fourths of the thigh,—its limits being marked above by Poupart’s ligament, and below by the opening in the great adductor muscle, after passing through which the artery receives the name of popliteal. VOL. I. n ix466 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 277. Fig. 277.—Anterior view of the arteries OF THE l'ELVIS, THIGH, AND KNEE (from Tiedemann). J a, anterior superior iliac spine ; &, tensor vaginae femoris muscle ; c, vastus internus ; (I, tendon of adductor magnus ; e, sartorius ; /, rectus ; g, termination of the colon, lying upon the left external iliac artery, h, urinary bladder; 1, bifurcation of the abdominal aorta; 1', middle sacral artery; 2, left common iliac artery; 3, external iliac; 3', deep circum- flex iliac; 3", epigastric, winding to the inner side of the spermatic cord, and giving off 3"', its cremasteric branch ; 4, 4, femoral artery, on the right side shown in Scarpa’s triangle, on the left exposed in Hunter’s canal; 4', superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric of the right side ; 4", superficial pudic branches; 5, deep femoral artery, descending on the left side behind the ad- ductor longus ; 6, external circumflex ; 6', its ascending branch; its descending branch ; 7, T, internal circumflex artery; 8, superior perforating ; 8', second perforat- ing branch ; 9, 9, muscular branches of the femoral artery : 9', anastomotic branch ; 10, superior internal articular branch of the popliteal; 10', inferior branch. At its commencement the femoral artery is of the same size as the ex- ternal iliac from which it is prolonged (9-10 mm.), but at a distance ofFEMORAL ARTERY. 467 from one to two inches below Poupart’s ligament it becomes suddenly smaller (i) in consequence of its giving off a large branch, deep femoral artery, for the supply of the muscles of the thigh. The short portion of the vessel above the origin of its deep branch is frequently referred to as the common femoral artery, which is then described as dividing into the superficial femoral (the continuation of the trunk) and the deep femoral arteries, A general indication of the direction of the femoral artery, over the fore part and inner side of the thigh, is given by a line reaching from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis above to the prominent tuberosity on the inner condyle of the femur below, the hip-joint having been first somewhat flexed, and the thigh abducted and rotated out. In the first part of its course the artery lies along the middle of the depression known as Scarpa’s triangle, between the ilio-psoas muscle on the outer side, and the adductor muscles on the inner side of the limb. In this situation the beating of the artery may be felt, and the circulation through the vessel may be most easily controlled by pressure. At a distance of from three to four inches below Poupart’s ligament, the sartorius muscle, which forms the outer boundary of Scarpa’s triangle, inclining inwards, comes to lie over the artery, and conceals the vessel in the remainder of its extent. Beneath the sartorius the artery is contained, together with the femoral vein and the internal saphenous nerve, in an elongated intermuscular space which is called Hunter’s canal, and which is bounded externally by the vastus internus muscle, internally and posteriorly by the adductors. While passing through Scarpa’s space, the femoral artery is covered only by the integument and the iliac portion of the fascia lata, as well as, in its upper part, by the crural sheath which invests both the artery ancl the vein. In the rest of its course it is covered by the sartorius muscle, and also by a dense fibrous membrane which stretches across from the tendons of the long and great adductors to the vastus internus muscle, and forms the anterior wall of Hunter’s canal. The artery rests at first upon the psoas muscle, by which it is separated from the margin of the pelvis and the capsule of the hip-joint ; next it is placed in front of the pectineus and adductor brevis muscles, the companion vein and deep femoral vessels being interposed; afterwards, it lies upon the long- adductor muscle ; and lastly, upon the tendon of the great adductor, the femoral vein being placed between the tendon and the artery. In the lower half of its course, it has immediately on its outer side the vastus internus muscle, which intervenes between it and the internal sur- face of the femur. At the groin the artery, after having passed over the margin of the pelvis, is placed in front of the innermost part of the head of the femur ; and at its lower end, the vessel lies close to the inner side of the shaft of the bone ; but in the intervening space, in consequence of the projection of the neck and shaft of the femur outwards, while the artery holds a straight course, it is separated from the bone by a considerable interval. Relation to veins.-—The femoral vein is very close to the artery, both being enclosed in the same sheath, and separated from each other only by a thin partition of fibrous membrane. At the groin, the vein lies on the same plane as the artery, and to its inner side ; but gradually inclining backwards, the vein is placed behind the artery at the lower end of Scarpa’s space, and afterwards gets somewhat to the outer side.ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 468 The deep femoral vein, near its termination, crosses behind the femoral artery ; and the internal saphenous vein, as it ascends on the fore part of the limb, lies to the inner side ; but it not unfrequently happens that a superficial vein of considerable size ascends for some distance directly over the artery. Relation to nerves.— At the groin, the anterior crural nerve lies a little to the outer side of the femoral artery (about a quarter of an inch), being separated from the vessel by some fibres of the psoas muscle and by the iliac fascia. Lower down in the thigh, the internal saphenous nerve Fig. 278.—Dissection of the right groin, SHOWING THE FEMORAL VESSELS AND THEIR superficial branches. (R. Quain.) J a, integument of the abdomen ; b, super- ficial abdominal fascia ; b', tbe part descend- ing on tbe spermatic cord ; c, c, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle; c', the same near the external abdominal ring; c", inner pillar of the ring ; d, iliac part of the fascia lata; d', pubic part ; e, e, crural sheath laid open, the inner letter is immediately over the crural canal; e', sartorius muscle, partially exposed ; 1, femoral artery, having 2, the femoral vein to its inner side ; the septum of the sheath is shown between the two yessels ; 3, internal saphenous vein ; 3', its anterior branch ; 4, superficial circum- flex iliac vein and arterial branches to the glands of the groin ; 5, superficial epigastric vein ; 6, external pudic vessels ; 7 to 8, some of the lower inguinal glands receiv- ing twigs from the vessels ; 9, internal, 10, middle, and 11, external cutaneous nerves. accompanies the artery in Hunter’s canal, lying along its anterior sur- face, until the vessel perforates the adductor magnus. The internal culaneous nerve also crosses the upper part of the artery at the inner border of the sartorius. Branches.—The femoral artery gives off the following branches :— some small and superficial, which are distributed to the integument and glands of the groin and ramify on the lower part of the abdomen, viz., the external pudic (superior and inferior), the superficial epigastric, and the superficial circumflex iliac; the great nutrient artery of the muscles of the thigh, named the deep femoral or profunda ; several muscu- lar branches ; and lastly, the anastomotic artery, which descends to the inner side of the knee. 1 and 2. The external pudic arteries arise either separately or by a common trunk from the inner side of the femoral artery. The superior, the more superficial branch, perforates the cribriform fascia in the saphenous opening, and courses upwards and inwards, passing in the male over the spermatic cord, to be distributed to the integument on the lower part of the abdomen and on the external organs of generation. The inferior branch, more deeply seated, runs inwards on the surface of the pectineus and adductor longus muscles (occasionally beneath the latter),FEMORAL ARTERY. 469 to both of which it furnishes branches, and, piercing the fascia lata at the inner border of the thigh, is distributed to the scrotum in the male, to the labium in the female. The external pudic arteries anastomose with each other, with the superficial perineal artery, and with the cremasteric branch of the deep epigastric artery. Fig. 279. Fig. 279.—The femoral artery and its branches (from R. Quain). \ The sartorius muscle has been re- moved in part, so as to expose the artery in the middle third of the thigh : a, anterior superior iliac spine ; b, aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle near the external abdominal ring; c, rectus femoris muscle ; d, adductor longus ; e, lower part of the aponeurosis covering the artery ; 1,1, femoral artery; 1', femoral vein, divided and tied close belowPoupart’s ligament; 2, 2, 2, deep femoral artery ; 3, an- terior crural nerve, the figure lies be- tween two superficial epigastric branches of the artery ; 3', superficial circum- flex iliac artery ; 4, 5, external pudic arteries, the deeper arising in this case from the internal circumflex; 6, ex- ternal circumflex artery, with its as- cending, transverse and descending branches separating from it; 6', branch to the rectus muscle; 7, branch to the vastus intemus muscle ; 8 and 9, some of the muscular branches of the femoral; +, origin of the second per- forating artery. 3. The superficial epigas- tric artery, arising from the femoral about half an inch below Poupart’s ligament, passes forwards through the fascia lata (sometimes through the upper part of the saphenous opening) and runs upwards on the abdo- men in the superficial fascia covering the external oblique muscle. Its branches, ascending nearly as high as the umbilicus, anastomose with superficial branches of the deep epigastric artery. 4. The superficial circumflex iliac artery, frequently arising in common with the superficial epigastric, runs outwards across the iliacus muscle, in the direction of Poupart’s ligament, towards the iliac crest. It gives small twigs to the iliacus and sartorius muscles, anastomosing with the deep circumflex iliac artery, and other branches which perforate the fascia lata and supply the integument of the hip. All the preceding arteries give small branches to the lymphatic glands in the groin.470 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 5. The deep femoral or profunda artery (ii), the principal nutrient vessel of the thigh, usually arises from the outer and back part of the femoral, about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament. It is directed at first somewhat outwards, in front of the iliacus muscle, so as to be visible for a short distance external to the continuation of the femoral trunk ; then inclining inwards and slightly backwards, it descends behind that vessel, and between the adductor longus and magnus muscles near their femoral attachments. Giving off numerous branches on its way downwards, the profunda diminishes rapidly in size ; and it termi- nates, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, as a small vessel which pierces the adductor magnus, and is known as the lowest perforating artery. This artery lies successively in front of the iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis, and adductor magnus muscles. The femoral and profunda veins and the adductor longus muscle are interposed between it and the femoral trunk. Branches.—The named branches of the deep femoral artery are the external and internal circumflex, and the perforating arteries. Other less regular offsets pass to the vastus internus, and to the adductor muscles. 1. The external circumflex artery (iii-iv), the largest of the branches, arises from the outer side of the profunda near its commencement. Passing outwards for a short distance beneath the sartorius and rectus muscles, and between the divisions of the anterior crural nerve, it gives offsets to the neighbouring muscles, and ends by dividing into the three following branches :— (a) The ascending branch runs upwards beneath the tensor vaginae femoris, supplies that muscle and the fore parts of the gluteus medius and minimus, and anastomoses with the terminal branches of the gluteal artery, as well as with offsets of the deep circumflex iliac. One branch passes up under cover of the rectus muscle, and is distributed to the hip- joint. (&) The transverse branch, the smallest of the three, is directed outwards over the crureus, and divides into two or three branches which enter the vastus externus muscle on its deep surface, and anastomose with the upper perforating arteries. (c) The descending branch, much larger than the others, sends its offsets downwards to the rectus, vastus externus and crureus muscles, anastomosing in the last with the inferior perforating arteries. One or two of the lowest branches reach as far as the knee, and communicate with the upper external articular of the popliteal. 2. The internal circumflex artery (iv), arising generally opposite the external from the inner and posterior part of the deep femoral artery, passes backwards between the psoas and pectineus muscles, and over the upper border of the adductor brevis, towards the small trochanter of the femur, close to which it divides into two terminal branches, ascending and transverse. It furnishes muscular branches, which supply the obturator externus and adductor muscles, and anastomose with the obturator artery, and an articular branch (developed in inverse proportion to the articular branch of the obturator artery) which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and supplies the fat and synovial membrane in the interior. (a) The ascending branch follows the tendon of the obturator externus muscle to the hollow on the inner side of the great trochanter, where it471 DEEP FEMORAL ARTERY. supplies the external rotator muscles, and anastomoses with offsets of the gluteal, sciatic, and first perforating arteries. Fig. 280.—Posterior view op Fig. 280. THE ARTERIES OP THE PELVIS, THIGH, AND POPLITEAL SPACE (from Tiedemann). | CV,< ' a, iliac crest; b, attachment of the great sacro-seiatic ligament to the tuberosity of the ischium ; c, great trochanter; d, integu- ment around the anus ; e, great sciatic nerve ; /, semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles ; <j, head of the fibula ; 1, gluteal artery; 2, pudic ; 3, sciatic ; 4, first perforating artery; 4', its branches to the hamstring muscles ; 5, 6, branches of the lower perforating arteries ; 7, 7, popliteal artery, near the upper figure the origin of the superior muscular branches ; 8, placed on the tendon of the adductor mag- nus, near the origin of the su- perior articular branches; 9, the anastomosis of the external superior articular with other branches; 10,10,sural branches; 11, anterior tibial recurrent artery. (b) The transverse branch, larger than the foregoing, passes back- wards between the quadra- tus femoris and adductor magnus muscles, and is distributed to the upper parts of the hamstring muscles, anastomosing with the sciatic and first perfo- rating arteries. 3. The perforating arte- ries are subject to consider- able variation in their arrangement, but they are generally four in number, including the terminal branch of the parent vessel. They pass backwards close to the femur, through small tendinous arches in the insertion of the adductor magnus muscle, and give considerable branches to the hamstring muscles, as well as small twigs to the great sciatic nerve, and a series of cutaneousARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB, 472 branches, which, issue along the back of the external intermuscular septum and supply the integument on the outer and posterior aspects of the thigh. All these offsets anastomose with one another, the upper ones also with the sciatic and internal circumflex arteries, and the lower ones with branches of the popliteal artery. Much diminished in size, the perforating arteries are continued outwards, winding round the back of the femur, the first passing through the insertion of the gluteus maximus and the others through the short head of the biceps and the external inter- muscular septum, to terminate in the vastus externus and crureus muscles, where they anastomose with branches of the external circumflex artery. (a) The first perforating artery-passes backwards at the lower border of the pectineus muscle, through the fibres of the adductor brevis and ad- ductor magnus, to both of which it furnishes branches, and is distributed mainly to the hamstring muscles and the lower end of the gluteus maximus. One branch ascends beneath the latter muscle on the back of the femur, and joins in the anastomosis in the hollow internal to the great tro- chanter with the gluteal, sciatic and internal circumflex arteries. Only a very small vessel is continued through the gluteus maximus into the vastus externus muscle. (b) The second perforating artery is frequently united at its origin with the first, a little below which it pierces the adductor brevis and magnus muscles. (c) The third perforating artery pierces the adductor magnus muscle below the insertion of the adductor brevis. The principal medullary artery of the femur is derived from cither the second or third perforating- artery. (el) The fourth perforating artery supplies chiefly the short head of the biceps muscle. It frequently gives a second artery to the femur. 6. Muscular branches.—In Scarpa’s triangle the femoral artery gives some small bi’anches to the surrounding muscles. In Hunter’s canal a variable number of larger branches is given off to the sartorius, vastus internus, and adductor muscles. A constant branch, of consider- able size, arises from the femoral artery near its termination (sometimes from the beginning of the popliteal) and passes outwards close to the back of the femur, perforating the short head of the biceps and the external intermuscular septum, to end in the outer part of the crureus muscle. 7. The anastomotic artery (iv) arises from the femoral close to the opening in the adductor magnus muscle, and immediately divides into two branches, superficial and deep, which are, however, not unfrequently given off separately from the femoral trunk. (a) The superficial branch accompanies the internal saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee, giving offsets to the lower parts of the sartorius and gracilis muscles, and ends by supplying the skin of the upper and inner part of the leg. Small twigs anastomose over the inner tuberosity of the tibia with the lower internal articular artery of the popliteal. (b) The deep branch descends, embedded in the fibres of the vastus internus muscle, along the front of the adductor magnus tendon to the inner condyle of the femur, where it anastomoses with the internal articular arteries. It supplies the vastus internus and crureus muscles, and sends small offsets outwards across the front of the femur, as well as one of larger size at the upper border of the patella, to join the superior external articular artery from the popliteal.473 FEMORAL ARTERY. Varieties of the femoral artery and its branches.—In some rare cases the main artery of the lower limb has been found springing- from the internal iliac trunk, being continued from a greatly enlarged sciatic artery, and descending with the great sciatic nerve along the back of the thigh to the popliteal space, where its connections and ending are similar to those of the vessel having the normal arrangement. The external iliac artery is then small, and terminates in the profunda and other branches usually derived from the femoral artery. Six examples of this deviation from the normal condition of the vessels are recorded (see Henle, op. cit.. p. 303). In one instance met with by Tiedemann (tab. 51, fig. 2) the external iliac artery divided near Poupart’s ligament into two parts, which united again at the level of the small trochanter. A somewhat similar case is figured by Dubrueil (“ Anoma- lies arterielles,” pi. xv), in which a vas aberrans is given off from the lower end of the external iliac artery, and descends on the inner side of the main trunk, to join the femoral about an inch below the origin of the profunda. Several in- stances are recorded of division of the femoral artery, below the origin of the profunda, into two vessels which reunite a variable distance above the opening in the adductor magnus, so as to form a single popliteal artery. To the first case in which this variety was observed special interest is attached, inasmuch as it was met with in a patient, operated upon by Charles Bell for popliteal aneurism (Bond. Med. and Phys. Journ., lvi., 1S26, p. 134 : the preparation is in the Museum of University College. London). Branches.—The deep femoral artery is sometimes given off from the inner side of the parent trunk, and more rarely from the back part of the vessel. It has also been found in two or three instances arising from the front of the femoral artery, and winding inwards over the femoral vein to gain its usual position below. Occasionally its origin is less than one inch, or more than two inches, below Poupart’s ligament. It was found by R. Quain, in one instance arising above Poupart’s ligament, and in another four inches below that band ; but in the latter case the internal and external circumflex arteries did not arise from the profunda. As a very rare occurence, absence of the profunda has been met with, the circumflex and perforating arteries arising separately from the femoral trunk (Hyrtl, “ Lehrbuch,” 14th Ed., p. 1015 ; A. H. Young, Journ. Anat., xiii, 154). The external circumflex artery sometimes arises directly from the femoral ; or it may be represented by two branches, of which, in most cases, one proceeds from the femoral, the other from the profunda; both branches, however, occa- sionally arise from the profunda, much more rarely from the femoral artery. The internal circumflex artery may be transferred to the femoral above the origin of the profunda. Examples have also been met with in which the internal circumflex arose from the epigastric, from the circumflex iliac, or from the external iliac artery. In a large number of cases (378) examined by R. Quain, the profunda failed to give the internal circumflex in 22 per cent., the external circumflex in 16 per cent., and both circumflex arteries in 3 per cent. (op. cit., p. 522). The observations of J. Srb, on 200 limbs, agree closely with those of R. Quain (Oesterr. Zeitschr. f. prakt. Heilk., 18G0). Many occasional branches have been seen arising from the femoral, as the deep epigastric, circumflex iliac, or an aberrant obturator artery ; more rarely the ilio- lumbar, or the dorsal artery of the penis. The great saphenous artery is a branch that has been occasionally met with. It arises either above or below the origin of the profunda, and running at first between the vastus internus and adductor magnus muscles it issues from the lower end of Hunter’s canal to reach the inner aspect of the knee, whence it accompanies the internal saphenous vein even as far as the internal malleolus. This vessel is normal in the rabbit and many other mammals (W. Krause). SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE FEMORAL ARTERY. Ligature of the common femoral artery is occasionally practised, and has been successful in several cases. The proximity of the epigastric and circumflex iliac branches of the external iliac artery, the presence of a number of small anastomos- ing branches springing from the trunk itself, and the possibility of the profunda,AETEEIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 474 or one of the circumflex arteries, arising- at a higher level than usual must, how- ever, be borne in mind in considering the propriety of applying a ligature to this part of the vessel. In performing the operation, an incision about two and a half inches in length, with its centre placed over the artery, is made parallel to and half an inch below Poupart’s ligament, dividing the integument and the iliac portion of the fascia lata. Any superficial arteries that have been cut being secured, the crural sheath is then laid open, and the artery freed from its areolar investment. The vein is here to the inner side of the artery, and, being separated from that vessel by a septum in the crural sheath, does not come into view. The needle should be passed from within outwards. The superficial femoral artery may be tied either immediately below Scarpa's triangle, or in Hunter’s canal. The former position is that usually preferred by surgeons, owing to the superficial position of the vessel, and its freedom from large branches. The hip having been slightly flexed, and the thigh everted, an incision about three and a half inches long, and so placed that its centre is about four and a half inches from Poupart’s ligament, is made in the line of the artery (p. 467). The integument and fascia lata are cut through at once, and the sartorius muscle exposed. The inner border of the sartorius is then raised and drawn well outwards, together with the internal cutaneous nerve which lies along this edge of the muscle (fig. 278), and the sheath of the artery is opened in the centre of the incision and separated from the vessel. The femoral vein is not seen, as it is placed behind the artery, only a very thin layer of connective tissue being interposed between the two. The needle is to be passed from within outwards, its point being kept close to the artery. A considerable branch of the saphenous vein may be divided in making the first incision, and if so will require a ligature. To reach the artery in Hunter’s canal a longer incision is necessary, in conse- quence of the greater depth of the vessel, and it should be made a finger’s breadth internal to the line of the artery, care being taken to avoid the internal saphenous vein. The superficial structures and the fascia lata having been cut through, the sartorius muscle is exposed and is recognized by its fibres running parallel to the line of the incision. The outer border of this muscle is then freed and drawn inwards, when the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels is laid bare, and is to be carefully divided. The sheath of the artery is now opened, avoiding the internal saphenous nerve which lies on the surface of the vessel, and the needle is to be passed from without inwards, as the vein is placed behind and slightly to the outer side of the artery. Collateral circulation.—When the common femoral artery has been tied, the circulation in the lower limb is carried on by means of the anastomoses of the internal pudic artery with the pudic branches of the femoral, of the obturator with the internal circumflex, of the circumflex iliac and gluteal with the external circumflex, and of the sciatic with the internal circumflex and upper perforating branches of the profunda. After ligature of the superficial femoral artery, blood reaches the distal portion of the limb through the anasto- moses of the descending branch of the external circumflex artery with the articular arteries of the knee, and through the communications along the back of the thigh, between the sciatic artery, the terminal branches of the internal circumflex, the perforating arteries, and the branches of the popliteal. In several instances in which the condition of the vessels has been examined after liga- ture of the femoral (or external iliac) artery, the comes nervi ischiadici has been found much enlarged, forming, with anastomotic branches from the perforating arteries, a vessel which accompanies the great sciatic nerve, and ends below in the popliteal artery or one of its branches. POPLITEAL AKTERY (I—II). The popliteal artery, continuous with the femoral, is placed at the hack of the knee, and extends along the lower fourth of the thigh and the upper sixth of the leg. It reaches from the opening in the adductor475 POPLITEAL ARTERY. magnus to the lower border of thepopliteus muscle, where it divides into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. Its termination is on a level with the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia. In the first part of its course the popliteal artery inclines slightly from within outwards, over the inner portion of the popliteal surface of the femur, to reach a point behind the middle of the knee-joint, whence it descends vertically to its lower end. Being deeply situated in its whole extent, it is covered at its upper end by the semimembranosus muscle ; for a short distance above the knee it is placed in the popliteal space ; below this it is covered by the gastrocnemius muscle and is also crossed by the plantaris ; and its termination is beneath the upper margin of the soleus muscle. At its commencement the artery lies close to the inner side of the femur, but in descending it is separated by an interval from the some- what hollowed popliteal surface of the bone ; it then rests on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and lastly on the popliteus muscle. Relation to veins.—The.popliteal vein lies close to the artery through- out. At the upper end it is placed to the outer side and somewhat behind, it then gradually crosses over the artery, and below gains the inner side. The vein is frequently double along the lower part of the artery, and more rarely also at the upper part. The short saphenous vein, ascending to join the popliteal, is also placed over the artery in the lower part of the popliteal space. Relation to the nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve lies at first to the outer side of, but much nearer to the surface than, the artery; it afterwards crosses gradually oyer the vessels, and is placed behind and to the inner side of them below the joint. The nerve is separated from the artery throughout its course by the vein. Branches.—The branches of the popliteal artery may be arranged in two sets, viz., the muscular and the articular. A. The muscular branches are divided into a superior and an inferior group. 1. The superior muscular branches, three or four in number, are distributed to the lower parts of the adductor magnus and hamstring muscles, and anastomose with the perforating and upper articular arteries. Small offsets pass from these branches to the internal popliteal nerve and to the skin, and also communicate above with the branches of the per- forating arteries. 2. The inferior muscular or sural arteries, generally two in number, and of considerable size, arise from the back of the popliteal artery, a little above the knee-joint, and enter, one the outer, and the other the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, which they supply, as well as the plantaris and the upper part of the soleus muscle. Over the surface of the gastrocnemius, on each side and in the middle of the limb, are slender branches, which descend a considerable distance along the calf of the leg and supply the integument. These small vessels {superficial sural) may arise either from the popliteal trunk or from its sural branches. B. The articular arteries are five in number. Two of these pass off nearly at right angles from the popliteal artery, one on each side, above the condyles of the femur ; two others have a similar arrangement below the knee-joint; and the fifth passes directly forwards into the centre of the joint.ARTERIES OF TEE LOWER LIMB. 476 1. The superior internal articular artery is directed inwards just above the inner head of the gastrocnemius, and beneath the inner ham- string muscles, to all of which it furnishes small offsets. Winding round the inner side of the femur, between the bone and the tendon of the adductor magnus, it divides under cover of the vastus interims muscle into branches, which anastomose with the deep part of the anastomotic, the upper external articular, and the lower articular arteries. The size of this artery varies inversely with that of the deep part of the, anas- tomotic branch of the femoral. Fig. 281.—View of the popliteal artert and its branches in the riuht leg (from Tiedemann). I a, biceps muscle ; b, semimembranosus ; c, semi- tendinosus ; 1, popliteal artery; 2, 3, superficial sural branches ; 4, outer ; 5, inner superior articular branch ; 6, superior muscular ; 7, median superficial artery. 2. The superior external articular artery (v), larger than the internal, runs outwards above the outer head of the gastrocnemius, under cover of the biceps, and, perforating the intermuscular septum, enters the lower part of the crureus muscle. Its branches anastomose above with the descending branch of the external circum- flex artery, below with the lower external arti- cular artery, and internally with the upper internal articular artery and the deep branch of the anastomotic, forming with the last a considerable arch at the upper border of the patella. 3. The inferior internal articular artery (v), the larger of the two lower branches, in- clines at first downwards and inwards along the upper margin of the popliteus muscle, to which it gives branches, and then passes forwards below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, between the internal lateral ligament and the bone. Its offsets ramify over the inner and fore part of the joint, as far as the patella and its ligament, and anastomose with the superficial branch of the anastomotic, the upper internal articular, and lower external articular arteries. 4. The inferior external articular artery takes its course out- wards, under cover of the outer head of the gastrocnemius in the first instance, and afterwards beneath the external lateral ligament of the knee and the tendon of the biceps muscle, resting against the margin of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage. Having reached the fore part of the joint, it divides near the patella into branches, some of which communicate with the lower internal articular artery and with the recurrent branch from the anterior tibial, while others anastomose with the upper articular arteries. 5. The middle or azygos articular artery is a small branch which arises opposite the flexure of the joint, and pierces the posterior ligament to be distributed to the crucial ligaments and other structures within the articulation. Small twigs also pass forwards in the mucous ligamentPOPLITEAL ARTERY. 477 to the fat at the front of the joint, and communicate with the other articular arteries. The upper and lower articular arteries of the popliteal, the anastomotic branch of the femoral, and the anterior tibial recurrent artery form, by their communications over the front of the knee, a superficial wide- meshed network of fine vessels between the fascia and skin, and a deeper and closer network of larger vessels, in contact with the bones, from which numerous offsets proceed to the interior of the joint. Fig. 282.—The deep anastomoses of the front of the Fig- 282. knee (from Tiedemann). 4 a, patellar surface of tlie femur ; b, posterior surface of the patella which, with the ligamentum patellse, has been turned down ; c, head of the fibula ; 1 and 2, branches of the anastomotic and superior internal articular arteries, ramifying on the bone and anastomosing with the superior external articular branch 3, and with other arteries within and below the joint ; 4, branches of the internal inferior articular ; 5, external inferior articular; 6, anterior tibial recurrent artery. Varieties.—Deviations from the ordinary condition of the popliteal artery are not frequent. The principal departure from the ordinary arrangement consists in the high division of the vessel into its terminal branches. Such an early division has been found to take place opposite the knee joint, or in the inter- condylar fossa of the femur, but not higher. In one case, observed by Portal, the artery was continued down to the middle of the leg before dividing. The popliteal artery has been seen occasionally dividing into anterior tibial and peroneal arteries—the posterior tibial being small or absent. In a single case, the popliteal artery was found by R. Quain dividing into three terminal branches, viz., the anterior and posterior tibial and the peroneal arteries. One instance is recorded in which the popliteal artery passed downwards internal to the origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and then tinned out- wards between that and the internal condyle of the femur, to gain the popliteal space (T. P. A. Stuart, Journ. Anat., xiii., 162). In two or three cases the positions of the artery and vein have been found reversed. The artery is occasionally separated from the vein by an accessory slip of origin of the gastrocnemius muscle (p. 254). The azygos articular branch often arises from one of the other articular arteries, especially the superior external branch. There are sometimes several small middle articular branches. Two examples of a small saphenous artery, formed by the enlargement of the median superficial sural branch, and descend- ing with the short saphenous nerve and vein to the back of the external malleolus, have been met with. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE POPLITEAL ARTERY. The popliteal artery is very rarely tied, since, in cases of aneurism of the arteries of the upper part of the leg, ligature of the superficial femoral artery is both an easier and a more successful operation. The artery might, however, if necessary, be secured either in its upper or its lower part, but in the middle portion of its extent, while,contained within the popliteal space, tho artery is closely covered by the vein and nerve, as well as by the sural branches of the vessels and the external saphenous vein ; and moreover the principal branches are alsoARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 478 arising- here, so that a ligature cannot be safely applied to this part of the vessel. In its upper part the artery may be reached either by making an incision on the inner side of the thigh in its lower third, and then separating the sartorius and inner hamstring muscles from the tendon of the adductor magnus, or by dividing the integument in the middle line of the limb posteriorly, and then turning in- wards the semimembranosus muscle. In an operation upon the lower part of the artery, the incision would have to be carried between the heads of the gastro- cnemius muscle, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (III). The posterior tibial artery, the larger of the two vessels resulting from the bifurcation of the popliteal, lies along the back of the leg, between the superficial and deep muscles of this part, being closely bound down to those of the latter group by the fascia which covers them. It extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the lower bor- der of the internal annular ligament, where it divides, on a level with a line drawn from the point of the internal malleolus to the centre of the con- vexity of the heel (Wyeth), into the internal and external plantar arteries. Situated at its origin opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula, the artery approaches the inner side of the leg as it descends, and lies behind the tibia ; at its lower end it is placed midway between the inner malleolus and the prominence of the heel. Very deeply seated at the upper part, where it is covered by the fleshy portions of the gastro- cnemius and soleus muscles, it becomes superficial in the lower third of the leg, being there covered only by the integument and two layers of fascia, and by the annular ligament behind the inner malleolus. At its termination the artery is placed beneath the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle. It lies successively upon the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, and, at its lower end, directly on the tibia and the ankle-joint. Behind the ankle, the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum lie between the artery and the internal malleolus ; while the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is to its outer side. Relation to the veins and nerve.—The posterior tibial artery is accompanied by two venae comites. The posterior tibial nerve is at first on the inner side of the artery, but as soon as the latter has given off its peroneal branch, the nerve crosses over the vessel and is continued down on its outer side. Beneath the internal annular ligament the artery is frequently placed between the internal and external plantar divisions of the posterior tibial nerve. Branches.—The posterior tibial artery gives off one large branch—the peroneal artery, and numerous small offsets which will be first described. 1. Several muscular branches are distributed to the deep-seated muscles, and one or two of considerable size to the inner part of the soleus muscle. A small offset from one of these perforates the tibial attach- ment of the soleus, and ascends over the popliteus muscle to anastomose with the lower internal articular artery. 2. The medullary artery of the tibia, the largest of its kind in the body, arises from the posterior tibial near its commencement, and, after giving small branches to the neighbouring muscles, enters the foramen in the bone. This vessel not unfrequently arises from the anterior tibial artery. 3. Two or three cutaneous branches, of small size, supply the skin of the inner side of the leg.479 POSTERIOR TIBIAE ARTERY. 4. A communicating branch passes transversely, beneath the flexor lone;us hallncis muscle, between the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries, about an inch above the ankle-joint. A second loop of communication Fig. 283.—Deep view op the arteries op the hack of the right leg (from Tieclemann). \ a, lower part of tlie adductor magnus muscle ; b, origin of the inner head of the gastrocnemius ; c, outer head and plantaris ; d, tendon of the semimembranosus muscle; e, popliteus ; f, fibular origin of the soleus ; rj, peroneus longus ; h, flexor longus hallucis; i, flexor longus digi- torum ; 1, upper part of the popliteal artery ; 2, origin of the superior articular branches ; 3, origin of the inferior articular branches ; the middle or azygos branch is seen between these numbers ; 4, division of the popliteal artery into anterior and posterior tibial arteries; 5, 5', posterior tibial; at 5', the internal malleolar branches are seen passing inwards, and the communicating branch outwards ; 6, peroneal artery; 6', its continuation as posterior peroneal; 7, calcaneal branches ; 8, external branches of the meta- tarsal of the dorsal artery of the foot. Fig. 283. between these vessels is sometimes present, lying in the fat beneath the tendo Achillis. 5, One or two small internal malleolar branches pass inwards beneath the flexor longus digitorum and tibialis posticus muscles, and ramify over the internal malleolus, where they anastomose with similar offsets from the anterior tibial artery. 6. The peroneal artery (iv) lies deeply along the back part of the leg, close to the fibula. Arising from the posterior tibial artery about an inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle, it inclines at first slightly outwards towards the fibula, being covered by the soleus and the deep layer of fascia, and resting upon the tibialis posticus muscle ; it then descends verti- cally along the inner border of the bone and under cover of the flexor longus hallucis, being contained in a fibrous canal between the origins of that muscle and the tibialis posticus. Oppo- site the lower end of the interosseous space it gives off the anterior peroneal branch, and is thence continued downwards, being much re- duced in size and taking the name of posterior peroneal artery, over the lower tibio-fibular articulation and behind the external malleolus, to terminate in branches which ramify on the outer surface and back of the os calcis. The peroneal artery is accompanied by two vencc comites, and, until it enters the flexor longus hallucis, by the branch of the posterior tibial nerve to that muscle. Branches—(a) Muscular branches pass from the peroneal artery to the soleus, tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, and peronei muscles.ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 480 Small branches also perforate the interosseous membrane, and are dis- tributed to the extensor longus digitorum and peroncus tertius muscles (Hyrtl). ( b) A medullary artery enters the fibula. (c) The communicating branch, lying close behind the tibia about an inch from its lower end, is a branch of variable size, which connects the peroneal and posterior tibial arteries, and also sends small twigs beneath the muscles to ramify over the inner side of the lower part of the tibia. This branch is sometimes wanting. (d) The anterior peroneal artery (v), arising from an inch to an inch and a half above the ankle joint, passes forwards below the inter- osseous membrane, and descends in front of the articulation between the tibia and fibula to the outer side of the tarsus. It communicates with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery, and supplies offsets to the peroncus tertius muscle, and the articulations of the ankle ; its terminal branches anastomose with the posterior peroneal and tarsal arteries. (e) The terminal branches of the posterior peroneal artery (external calcaneal) anastomose with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries on the outer side of the foot; and over the heel with the internal calcaneal branches of the external plantar artery. Varieties.—The posterior tibial artery, as well as the anterior tibial, is lengthened in those instances in which the popliteal artery divides higher up than usual. Not unfrequently the posterior tibial artery is diminished in size, and is subsequently reinforced, either by a transverse branch from the peroneal in the lower part of the leg, or, more rarely, by two transverse vessels, one crossing close to the bone, and the other over the deep muscles. In other instances the posterior tibial may exist only as a short muscular trunk in the upper part of the leg, or may be entirely wanting, while an enlarged peroneal artery takes its place from above the ankle downwards into the foot. One or two internal calcaneal branches are frequently given off from the lower end of the posterior tibial artery. The posterior tibial artery is occasionally covered in the lower third of the leg by muscle, which may be an accessory long flexor of the toes (p. 258), or a slip of the soleus (p. 255). The peroneal artery has been found to arise lower down than usual, about three inches below the popliteus muscle ; and, on the contrary, it sometimes arises higher up from the posterior tibial, or even from the end of the popliteal artery. In some cases of high division of the popliteal artery, the peroneal artery is transferred to the anterior tibial. It more frequently exceeds than falls short of the ordinary dimensions, being enlarged to reinforce the posterior tibial. In those rare instances in which it is lost before reaching the lower part of the leg, a branch of the posterior tibial takes its place. Absence of the peroneal artery has been recorded by Otto and W. Krause, but these cases are explained by Barkow, as being correctly suppression of the posterior tibial artery between the origin of the peroneal and the communicating branch. The anterior peroneal branch is sometimes enlarged to compensate for the small size of the anterior tibial artery in the lower part of the leg, or to supply the place of that artery on the dorsum of the foot; or it may be absent and be replaced by the external mal- leolar branch of the anterior tibial. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The internal and external plantar arteries are the branches into which the posterior tibial divides, immediately below the internal annular481 PLANTAR ARTERIES. ligament, where it is covered by the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle. The internal plantar artery (v), much smaller than the external, lies along the inner side of the foot. Placed at first under cover of the abductor hallucis, it passes forwards in the groove between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, and on reaching the head of the first metatarsal bone, considerably diminished in size, it terminates by joining the digital artery to the inner side of the great toe. Fig. 284.—Superficial view of the arteries in the sole of the right foot (from Tiedemann). -J- a, tuberosity of the calcaneum close to the origins of the flexor brevis digitorum (cut short) and the ab- ductor hallucis, of which a part is removed to show the plantar arteries; b, abductor hallucis; c, abductor minimi digiti ; d, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis ; e, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum ; e', its foui- slips, close to the lumbricales muscles, passing on to perforate the tendons of the flexor brevis ; /, flexor accessorius ; g, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 1, posterior tibial, dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2', external plantar ; 3, internal plantar ; 3', the same passing for- wards to communicate with 4, the digital branch for the great toe, derived from the dorsal artery of the foot; 5, first digital branch to the fifth toe ; 6, placed in the angle of division of the second digital artery, between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, third digital artery dividing similarly between the third and fourth toes ; 8, fourth digital artery dividing between the second and third toes ; 9, digital artery dividing between the first and second toes ; 10, internal digital artery of'the great toe ; 11, calcaneal branches of the external plantar artery, anastomosing with 12, the calcaneal branches of the posterior peroneal artery. Branches.—(a) Small branches of this artery accompany the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve, and join the digital arteries in the inner three clefts (see Ellis, “Illustrations of Dissections,” id. lvi.). It also gives (b) offsets to the surrounding muscles, and (c) cutaneous branches, which appear in the furrow between the middle and internal portions of the plantar fascia. (d) Other branches pass inwards and appear at the upper border of the abductor hallucis muscle, supplying the integument and anastomosing with offsets of the dorsal artery of the foot; and (e) from the outer side one or more branches run deeply into the foot, to supply the articulations and anastomose with branches of the plantar arch. The external plantar artery (iv) at first inclines outwards and forwards, to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; it then turns obliquely inwards across the sole, to gain the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it joins the dorsal artery of the foot ; and thus is completed the plantar arch, the convexity of which is turned forwards. At first the artery is placed, together with the external plantar nerve, between the calcaneum and the abductor hallucis ; farther on it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius. As it turns forwards it lies in the interval between the VOL. I. IIARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 482 short flexor of the toes and the abductor of the little toe, being placed along the line separating the middle from the external portion of the plantar fascia, and covered by that membrane. The remainder of the artery, which turns inwards and forms the plantar arch, is placed deeply against the interosseous muscles, and is covered by the flexors of the toes, the lumbricales muscles, and the adductor hallucis. Branches.—A. In its course to the fifth metatarsal lone, the external plantar artery gives off (a) two or three internal calcaneal branches, which pierce the origin of the abductor hallucis muscle and ramify over the heel, anastomosing with the external calcaneal branches of the peroneal artery ; (l) numerous muscular branches ; (c) small offsets which ascend over the outer border of the foot and anastomose with the tarsal and metatarsal branches of the dorsal artery ; and (cl) cutaneous offsets, which appear in the groove between the middle and outer divisions of the plantar fascia. B. From the plantar arch are given off the following branches :— (a) From the concavity of the arch small offsets pass backwards to the articulations of the tarsus, and anastomose with the deep branches of the internal plantar artery. (b) The posterior perforating branches, three in number, pass upwards Fig. 285.—Deep view of the arteries in the sole of the right foot (from Tiedemann). g All tlie muscles have been removed : a, calcaneal tuberosity ; b, internal cuneiform bone ; a, to c, long, and d, short plantar ligament ; e, prolongation of the tibialis posticus tendon ; f, one of the sesamoid hones of the great toe ; 1, posterior tibial artery dividing into the plantar arteries; 2, 2', external plantar artery ; 2', 2", plantar arch ; 3, 3', internal plantar artery ; 3", its communication with the internal digital artery of the great toe ; 4, branches of the internal plantar to the inner side of the foot; 5, 5', first digital branch ; 6, second digital artery ; 6', its division between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, third digital artery ; 7', its distribu- tion to the third and fourth toes ; 8, fourth digital artery ; 8', its distribution to the second and third toes ; 9, fifth digital artery ; 9', its distribution to the first and second toes ; 10, internal digital branch of the great toe ; at the upper numbers, 6, 7, and 8, the posterior perforating branches are partially seen ; at 2", the dorsal artery of the foot (in this instance of small size) is seen joining the plantar arch ; 11, and 12, calcaneal branches of the external plantar and posterior peroneal arteries. through the back part of the three outer inter- metatarsal spaces, between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and on reaching the dorsum of the foot inosculate with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery, (c) The digital branches (v) are four in number. The first digital artery inclines outwards from the outermost part of the plantar arch, over the fifth metatarsal bone, and runs along the outer border of the little toe. The second digital artery passes forwards along the fourth intermetatarsal space, and near the cleftEXTERNAL PLANTAR ARTERY. 4S3 between the fourth and fifth toes divides into two collateral branches, which course along the contiguous borders of those toes. The third digital branch is similarly distributed to the fourth and third toes, and the fourth to the third and second toes. The digital artery which supplies the opposed sides of the first and second toes, and that to the inner side of the great toe are derived from the ending of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, as in the fingers, collateral digital arteries pass along the sides of the flexor aspect of each of the toes, and then inosculate across the last phalanx so as to form an arch, from the convexity of which minute vessels pass forwards to the extremity of the toe, and upwards to the matrix of the nail. Anterior perforating branches, one in each space, are sent upwards by the digital arteries near Their bifurcation, to communicate with the interosseous arteries on the dorsum of the foot. These branches are, however, often wanting in one or more of the outer spaces. Varieties.—The arteries of the foot deviate from the normal arrangement much less frequently than those of the hand. The internal plantar artery is sometimes smaller than usual, and has been seen terminating in the flexor brevis hallucis (Cruveilhier). On the other hand it may be larger and supply alone the digital artery of the inner side of the great toe, or even the arteries of the contiguous sides of the great and second toes. The external plantar artery occasionally varies in size, a diminution being accompanied by an enlargement of the dorsal artery of the foot, and vice versa. It has been observed very small, and not entering into the plantar arch, which was formed by the dorsal artery alone (Dubrueil, Cruveilhier). The posterior perforating branches, which are usually very small vessels, are sometimes enlarged, and furnish the interosseous arteries on the back of the foot; the metatarsal branch of the dorsal artery, from which the dorsal in- terosseous arteries are usually derived, being in that case very small. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY (IV). The anterior tibial artery, the smaller of the two divisions of the pop- liteal trunk, extends from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the bend of the ankle, whence the vessel is afterwards prolonged to the hinder end of the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, under the name of dorsal artery of the foot. The anterior tibial artery is at first directed forwards between the at- tachments of the tibialis posticus muscle (p. 2GO), and through the aper- ture in the upper part of the interosseous membrane, lying here close to the inner side of the neck of the fibula, to the front of the leg. It then descends along the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane, gradu- ally approaching the tibia, and in its lower part comes to lie over the front of that bone. The position of the artery may be indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the external tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the front of the ankle-joint. In the upper two-thirds of the leg, while resting on the interosseous membrane, to which it is closely bound down by connective tissue, the artery is deeply placed between the tibialis anticus on its inner side and the extensor longus digitorum and extensor proprius hallucis muscles on its outer side. In the lower third, where the muscles become tendi- nous, the artery inclines forwards upon the tibia and is nearer to the surface, but is covered by the extensor proprius hallucis, which crosses i i 2484 ARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. it gradually from the outer to the inner side. Above the ankle it is placed also beneath the upper band of the anterior annular ligament. Fig. 286. Fig. 286.—Anterior, view op tite arteries or the leg and foot (from Tiedemann). J The tibialis anticus muscle is drawn inwards so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view ; the extensor proprius hallucis, the long extensor of the toes and the peroneus tertius muscles in their lower part, and the whole of the extensor brevis, have been removed. 1, superior external articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramifying over the knee, and anastomosing with the other articular branches and with 2, the anterior tibial recurrent artery ; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot; 5, external malleolar artery, anastomosing with the anterior peroneal which is seen descending upon the in this instance larger than usual and reinforcing the next artery ; 7, metatarsal branch, giving off the second dorsal interosseous artery ; in the first inter- intei’osseous artery ; between 8, and 8, the collateral dorsal digital arteries. Relation to veins and nerves.—The ante- rior tibial artery is accompanied by two vence. A llv tv/friC'/ vt// t'vl/vtvi/ /vo/ vv/111411 front the outer side of the neck of the fibula, approaches the artery a short distance below the place where the vessel appears in front of the interosseous membrane. Lower down, the nerve for the most part lies in front of the artery, and at the ankle it is generally on the outer side of the vessel. Branches.—Before perforating the inter- osseous membrane the anterior tibial artery gives off the posterior tibial recurrent and the superior fibular branches. On the front of the leg it gives off the anterior tibial recurrent, numerous muscular branches, and the external and internal malleolar arteries. 1. The posterior tibial recurrent artery is a small branch which ascends beneath the popliteus muscle to the back of the knee-joint. It gives offsets to the popli- teus and the upper tibio-fibular articulation, and anastomoses with the lower articular arteries from the popliteal. This branch is sometimes wanting. 2. The superior fibular branch (C. Krause), also of small size, arises most frequently from the anterior tibial artery, but lower part of the fibula ; the internal malleolar is repre- sented proceeding from the inner side of the anterior tibial artery; 6, tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, osseous space the dorsal artery of the foot is seen descend- ing into the sole after having given off the first dorsal comites. The anterior tibial nerve, coming it is sometimes derived from the posterior tibial, or from the lower endDORSAL AETEEY OF THE FOOT. 485 of the popliteal artery. It runs outwards across the neck of the fibula, perforating the attachment of the soleus, and is distributed to that muscle, to the peroneus longus, and to the integument. 3. The anterior tibial recurrent artery (v), larger than the posterior, arises from the trunk immediately after its passage through the aperture in the interosseous membrane. Ascending through the upper end of the tibialis anticus muscle, to which it furnishes offsets, this branch ramifies over the outer tuberosity of the tibia, and anasto- moses with the lower articular arteries of the popliteal. 4. The muscular branches supply the muscles of the front of the leg, and send also three or four small twigs backwards through the inter- osseous membrane into the tibialis posticus (Hyrtl), as well as other oil- sets forwards between the muscles to the skin. 5. The external malleolar artery (v-vi), arises near the ankle- joint, and is directed outwards beneath the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius muscles, to ramify over the outer malleolus, forming anastomoses with the anterior peroneal and tarsal arteries. It furnishes twigs to the neighbouring articulations. 6. The internal malleolar artery, smaller than the foregoing, passes inwards beneath the tendon of the tibialis anticus, and ramifies over the internal malleolus, anastomosing with the corresponding branches from the posterior tibial artery. DORSAL ARTERY OF THE FOOT (IV-V). The dorsal artery of the foot, the continuation of the anterior tibial, extends from the bend of the ankle to the posterior end of the first inter- metatarsal space. At this spot it turns downwards and passes between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle into the sole, where it completes the plantar arch and supplies the inner side of the second and both sides of the great toes. On the dorsum of the foot the artery lies in the interval between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum muscles, resting upon the tarsal bones, to which it is bound by an aponeurotic layer. It is covered by the integument and the dorsal fascia of the foot, at its upper end also by the lower band of the anterior annular ligament, and near its termination by the innermost slip of the extensor brevis digitorum muscle. Two vence comites accompany this artery, and the internal branch of the anterior tibial nerve lies usually on its outer side. Branches.—On the dorsum of the foot, the artery gives off two or three small internal branches, which ramify on the inner side of the tarsus, and anastomose with branches of the internal plantar artery ; two external branches, which are of larger size, and are named tarsal and » metatarsal arteries ; and the first dorsal interosseous artery, which iirises as the trunk bends downwards in the first space. As soon as it appears in the sole, the artery divides into two terminal offsets, an outer communicating branch which completes the plantar arch, and an inner digital artery to the great and second toes. 1. The tarsal artery (v) arises opposite the head of the astragalus, and inclines outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle to the cuboid bone, where it divides into branches which anastomose withARTERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 486 the external malleolar, the peroneal, external plantar, and metatarsal arteries. It furnishes offsets to the extensor brevis digitorum, and to the tarsal articulations. 2. The metatarsal artery, arising near the bases of the metatarsal bones, is also directed outwards beneath the short extensor muscle, and terminates in branches which anastomose with offsets of the tarsal and external plantar arteries. It supplies small branches to the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the articulations of the foot, and from the fore part of the arch formed by the vessel three dorsal interosseous arteries are given off. The dorsal interosseous arteries (vi) pass forwards over the outer three intermetatarsal spaces, resting upon the dorsal interosseous muscles, to which they furnish small offsets. Opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulations, each artery divides into two dorsal digital branches, which run along the contiguous borders of the corresponding toes. These arteries communicate with the plantar arch at the back part of the interosseous spaces by means of the posterior perforating branches, and, less constantly, with the plantar digital arteries at the fore part of the spaces by the anterior perforating branches. From the outermost interosseous artery, or from the metatarsal artery itself, a small branch is given off to the outer border of the little toe. 3. The first dorsal interosseous artery (v), continuing the direction of the dorsal artery of the foot, runs forwards over the dorsal interosseous muscle of the first space, communicates with the correspond- ing plantar digital artery by an anterior perforating branch, and divides into dorsal digital branches for both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second toe. The branch to the inner side of the great toe is, however, frequently small or wanting. 4. The plantar digital branch passes forwards in the first inter- osseous space, sends inwards across the first metatarsal bone the artery for the inner side of the great toe, and terminates by dividing into collateral digital branches for the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. Varieties of the anterior tihial artery .—Origin.—In instances of early di- vision of the popliteal artery, the place of origin of the anterior tibial is necessarily higher than usual, and in these cases the commencement of the vessel may either descend by the side of the posterior tibial artery behind the popliteus, or it may pass in front of that muscle, resting against the outer tuberosity of the tibia, to reach the upper end of the interosseous space. The peroneal artery is occasionally found conjoined with the anterior tibial, that vessel having either a normal or a high origin. Course.—The anterior tibial artery has been observed inclining outwards towards the fibula in the lower part of the leg, and then returning to its ordinary position on the dorsum of the foot. It has also been seen coming to the surface in the middle of the leg, and continued downwards from that point, covered only by the fascia and the integument, (Pelletan, “ Clinique Chirurgicale,” p. 101 ; Velpeau, “Medecine Operatoire,” t. i. p. 137). Velpeau also states that in one case the artery gained the front of the leg by passing with the musculo-cutaneous nerve round the outer side of the fibula. Size.—This vessel is more frequently diminished than increased in size. It may he defective in various degrees. Thus, the dorsal artery of the foot may fail to enter the sole, and the digital branches to the great and second toes are then derived from the external or the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial. In a farther degree of diminution, the anterior tibial ends at the ankle, or in the lower part of the leg : its place being then taken by theSUEGICAL ANATOMY OP THE AETEEIES OF THE LEG. 487 anterior peroneal artery, which forms the dorsal artery of the foot, the two vessels (anterior tibial and anterior peroneal) being either connected together or separate. A few cases are recorded in which the anterior tibial artery was altogether wanting, its place in the leg being supplied by perforating branches from the posterior tibial artery, and on the dorsum of the foot by the anterior peroneal artery. This artery is occasionally larger than usual, in that case compensating for a defective condition of the external plantar artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is not unfrequently found curving outwards below the ankle-joint, and returning to its usual position at the back of the first inter- osseous space. It has also been seen passing through the second space into the sole. The metatarsal artery varies greatly in its arrangement. It is sometimes given off higher than usual, and it occasionally arises in common with the tarsal artery. It may be smaller than usual or absent, the deficiency being supplied by the tarsal artery, which furnishes one or more of the outer dorsal interosseous arteries (fig. 286). Occasionally there are two metatarsal arteries. The dorsal interosseous arteries are sometimes derived mainly or solely from the plantar arch, by means of the posterior perforating branches. SURGICAL ANATOMY OP THE ARTERIES OP THE LEG. The posterior tibial artery may be tied at any spot in the lower two-thirds of the leg. To reach the artery in the middle third, an incision from three to four inched in length is made through the skin and fascia, parallel to, and about half an inch behind, the internal border of the tibia. The inner head of the gastro- cnemius being drawn backwards, and the internal saphenous vein (if exposed) forwards, the fleshy fibres of the soleus are cut through until the deep aponeurosis of the latter muscle is reached. This is then divided for the whole length of the wound, and the deep layer of fascia, which is here thin, is exposed. On laying this open the artery is at once seen, being placed between the companion veins, and having the nerve to its outer side. In the lower third of the leg, the artery is readily tied by means of an incision two inches long, placed midway between the inner border of the tibia and the edge of the tendo Achillis, and carried through the integument and the two layers of fascia. The peroneal artery might, if necessary, be secured in the middle third of the leg. An incision, from three to four inches long, is made through the skin and fascia immediately behind the outer border of the fibula, and the soleus drawn backwards. The fibres of the flexor longus hallucis are then to be divided close to the fibula, until the membranous wall of the canal containing the vessel is exposed, and on laying this open the artery will be found resting against the bone. In order to apply a ligature to the anterior tibial artery, an incision is made along the front of the leg in the line of the vessel (see p. 483) for a distance of about three inches. In the upper part a longer incision is necessary than in the lower, in consequence of the greater depth of the artery, and a short transverse cut on each side through the dense fascia will facilitate the subsequent steps of the operation. The areolar interval between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum is then opened up, and the muscles drawn well to the sides ; in the lower part of the leg the extensor proprius hallucis must also be drawn out- wards. The artery is then found lying upon the interosseous membrane, or upon the bone, according to the level at which it is exposed. The nerve is either superficial to, or on the outer side of the vessels. In the lower third of the leg, the outer border of the tendon of the tibialis anticus muscle is the best guide to the artery. The dorsal artery of the foot is tied by means of an incision an inch and a half in length, placed midway between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum muscles. On dividing the fascia, the artery is488 SYSTEMIC VEINS. found passing beneath the innermost slip of the extensor brevis dig-itorum, and having the companion nerve generally to its outer side. The aponeurotic layer binding the vessels against the bone must also be cut through to bring them fully into view. SYSTEMIC VEINS. The systemic veins commence by small branches which receive the blood from the capillaries throughout the body, and unite to form larger vessels, which end at last by pouring their contents into the right auricle of the heart through two large venous trunks, the supe- rior and inferior venae cavae. The blood from the walls of the heart it- self is returned by the cardiac veins also to the right auricle. The veins, however, which bring back the blood from the stomach, intestines, spleen, and pancreas, have an exceptional destination, not conveying the blood directly to the heart, but joining to form a single trunk—the portal vein, which again becomes ramified in the substance of the liver, and carries its blood to the capillaries of that organ. Thence the blood passes into the ultimate twigs of the hepatic veins, and is con- veyed by these veins into the inferior vena cava. The veins thus passing to the liver constitute thq portal system. The anastomoses of veins are much larger and more numerous than those of arteries. The veins of the body generally consist of a sub- cutaneous and a deep set, which have very frequent communications with each other. In some parts of the body, chiefly in the limbs and at the surface, the veins are provided with valves, while in others no valves exist (see Yol. II. p. 192). The systemic veins are naturally divisible into two groups: firstly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the superior vena cava, viz., the veins of the head and neck and upper limbs, together with those of the spine and a part of the wralls of the thorax and abdomen, with which may be associated also the veins of the heart; and secondly, those from which the blood is carried to the heart by the inferior vena cava, viz., the veins of the lower limbs, the lower part of the trunk, and the abdominal viscera. (For a general representation of the venous system, see fig. 225, p. 348.) VEINS OF THE HEART. The greater number of the cardiac veins are collected into a large common trunk which pours its blood into the posterior part of the right auricle, in the angle between the orifice of the inferior vena cava and the right auriculo-ventricular orifice. The terminal part of this trunk is somewdiat dilated, and is named the coronary sinus. The veins leading into the sinus are named the left or great, the posterior, the middle, and the right or small cardiac veins. In addition to these, there are also the anterior and the smallest cardiac veins, which open separately into the right auricle. The veins of the heart are without valves, except- ing at their terminations. The great cardiac or coronary vein commences near the apex of the heart, and ascends, increasing gradually in size, along the anterior inter- ventricular groove, in company with the anterior branch of the left coronary artery. It then turns backwards, by the side of the posteriorright auricle ; 6, the oblique vein, proceeding VEINS OF THE HEART. 4S9 branch of the same artery, in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, and, having gained the posterior surface of the heart, terminates in the left end of the coronary sinus. In the first part of its course it receives branches from the interventricular septum and from the anterior wall of both ventricles ; and as it passes backwards it is joined by de- scending branches from the left auricle, and by ascending branches from the ventricle, one of which, lying along the left margin of the heart, is Fig. 287.—The heart, from behind, to SHOW TIIE CARDIAC VEINS. (A. T.) £ a, placed on the right auricle, points to the Eustachian valve seen within the opening of the inferior vena cava ; b, left auricle ; c, right ventricle ; d, left ventricle; e, superior vena cava ; /, arch of the aorta; 1, coronary sinus ; 2, great coronary vein, turning round the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove ; 3, posterior cardiac veins ; 4, middle cardiac vein ; the small coronary vein is seen joining the right end of the coronary sinus ; 5, one of the anterior cardiac veins passing directly into the downwards over the left auricle to join the coronary sinus. of considerable size. A valve, gene- rally of two segments, is placed over the opening of the vein in the coro- nary sinus. The posterior cardiac veins are three or four in number, and ascend on the posterior surface of the left ventricle to open into the coronary sinus along its lower border. Sometimes one of these veins is much larger than the others. The middle cardiac vein, of considerable size, commences at the apex of the heart, where it communicates with the radicles of the great coronary vein, and passes upwards in the posterior interventricular groove to join the right extremity of the coronary sinus. It receives branches from the interventricular septum, and from the posterior wall of both ventricles, but more particularly the right. The right or small coronary vein collects blood from the hinder parts of the right auricular and ventricular walls, and passes transversely in the groove between the right auricle and ventricle to open into the right end of the coronary sinus. This small vein is often represented by two or three separate branches, and it is occasionally absent. The coronary sinus is about an inch in length, and is placed at the back of the heart, in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, where it is covered by the muscular fibres of the auricle. At its termina- tion it opens into the right auricle, immediately in front of the inferior vena cava, and its orifice is covered by the Thebesian valve. The sinus is joined by the principal veins of the heart in the manner described above, and also at its left extremity by a small straight vein (oblique vein of Marshall) which runs downwards and inwards over the back of the left auricle. All the veins joining the sinus, except the small oblique vein which is often imperforate, are provided with more or less complete valves at their terminations. Fig. 287.490 SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The anterior cardiac veins are two or three small vessels running upwards on the front of the right ventricle, and one of larger size ascending along the right border of the heart, all of which open into the auricle immediately above the auriculo-ventricular groove. These veins have no valves. The smallest cardiac veins (venae cordis minimae), very variable in number, are contained in the substance of the heart, and open into the right auricle, especially upon and in the neighbourhood, of the inter- auricular septum, giving rise to some of the foramina Thebesii. Similar minute veins open into the left auricle, and according to L. Langer also into both ventricular cavities. The coronary sinus, together with the small oblique vein, considered with reference to their early foetal condition and certain abnormal conditions to which they are subject along1 with other neighbouring veins, may be looked upon rather as the persistent terminal parts of a typically distinct left superior vena cava (duct of Cuvier), than as simply the main stem of the cardiac veins. The explanation of this will be found in the description of the development of these veins. SUPERIOR VERA CAVA. The superior or descending vena cava conveys to the heart the blood which is returned from the head and neck, the upper limbs, and the walls of the thorax. It is formed by the union of the right and left innominate veins, behind the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum, and descends nearly vertically to the base of the heart, where it opens into the right auricle, opposite the upper border of the third costal cartilage. It is about three inches long, and in its course it describes a slight curve, the convexity of which is directed to the right side. It has no valves. At its commencement, the superior vena cava is placed on the right side of the innominate artery, and is covered in front and externally by the pleura. The right phrenic nerve also lies along its outer side. About an inch and a half above its termination, it perforates the fibrous layer of the pericardium, the serous membrane being reflected over it and surrounding it except aloDg its posterior surface. The lower part of the vein lies in front of the right division of the pulmonary artery and the upper right pulmonary vein, and the ascending part of the arch of the aorta is to its inner side. The superior vena cava receives small pericardial and mediastinal veins, and immediately above the place where it perforates the pericardium it is joined by the large azygos vein. INNOMINATE VEINS. The innominate or brachio-cephalic veins, commencing on each side by the union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins behind the inner end of the clavicle, transmit the blood returning from the head and neck, the upper limbs, and a part of the thoracic wall. They end below by uniting to form the superior vena cava, beneath the junction of the first costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum. The right vein is about an inch in length, and descends nearly vertically by the side of the commencement of the subclavian and the upper end of the innominate artery ; externally it is covered by the right pleura and lung, the phrenic nerve being interposed. The vein of the left side, nearly three times as491 INNOMINATE VEINS. long as the right, takes a course from left to right, at the same time in- Fig. 288.—Sketch op the principal venous TRUNKS, TOGETHER WITH THE THORACIC DUCT. (A.T.) i a, basilar process of the occipital bone, through which and the temporal bones a transverse section has been made so as to lay open the jugular fora- men on both sides ; b, fifth cervical vertebra ; r, first rib ; cl, the sixth ; e, the twelfth ; /, fifth lumbar vertebra ; 1, superior vena ca va divided at the place of its entrance into the right auricle ; 2, right, 2', left subclavian vein ; 3, right internal jugular vein ; 3', 3', lower parts of the lateral sinuses of the dura mater ; that of the right side sliotfs at its junction with the jugular vein the bulb which lies in the jugular fossa of the temporal bone ; 4, right, and 4', left external jugular vein ; 5, right, and f/, left vertebral vein, being joined by 5", the anterior vertebral vein, before entering (in this case) the subclavian vein ; 6, placed on the left subclavian vein below the opening of the last, and of the thoracic duct; below b, the inferior- thyroid veins ; 7, 7', internal mammary veins ; 8, the left superior intercostal vein, joining the left innominate, and anastomosing below with the left upper azygos vein ; the right superior intercostal vein is seen joining the large azygos vein ; 9, 9, 9, large azygos vein ; 9', left lower azygos vein ; 10, thoracic duct; 11, inferior vena cava, at the place of junction of the renal veins ; 12, communication of the left lower azygos vein with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', right and left ascending lumbar veins, continued upwards into the corresponding azygos veins ; 14, 14', external iliac veins, which are joined higher np by the internal iliacs, to form the common iliac veins ; 15, placed on the pro- montory of the sacrum, points on either side to the prolongation of the lower branches of the lumbar veins into the pelvis, and their union with sacral and other branches of the internal iliac veins. Fig. 288. 3'JJI MO-7! Cm nil dining somewhat downwards : it crosses behind the upper part of the manubrium, being separated from the bone by the lower ends of the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and by the thymus gland or its remains ; below it is the transverse part of the arch of the aorta, and behind it are the three large branches of the arch, as well as the left phrenic and pneumo-gastric nerves. The innominate veins have no valves. Lateral tributaries.—Both inno- minate veins are joined by the vertebral, inferior thyroid and internal mammary veins ; that of the left side also by the superior intercostal, and some small thy- mic, mediastinal and pericardial veins. There is also, opening into the &6INNOMINATE VEINS. 492 angle of union of the internal jugular and subclavian veins, on the left side the thoracic duct, on the right side the right lymphatic duct. The vertebral vein is formed by the union of branches which proceed from the pericranium and the deep muscles lying behind the foramen magnum of the occipital bone, and which anastomose with the the occipital, with the commencement of the deep cervical, and with the posterior spinal veins. It passes downwards with the artery of the same name through the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the upper six cervical vertebra;, and then, inclining forwards, descends across the subclavian artery, and under cover of the internal jugular vein, to open into the commencement of the innominate vein posteriorly, where its orifice is guarded by a single or double valve (Struthers). The vertebral vein receives in its course downwards several branches from the neighbouring muscles, and branches from the spinal canal issuing by the intervertebral foramina; it communicates freely with the dorsal spinal veins of the neck, and with a venous plexus which surrounds the transverse processes and extends over the anterior surface of the cervical vertebra;; and near its termination it is joined by the anterior vertebral and deep cervical veins, as well as by a small vein from the first intercostal space, which accompanies the superior intercostal artery. The last branch may, however, open independently into the innominate vein (B. G. Morison, Journ. Anat., xiii., 346). The anterior vertebral vein issues from the plexus over the cervical vertebra;, and passes downwards in company with the ascending cervical artery, receiving branches from the prevertebral and scaleni muscles, to join the lower end of the vertebral vein. The deep cervical vein (posterior vertebral), a vessel of large size, commences in the suboccipital region, and descends between the corn- plexus and semispinalis muscles to the lower part of the neck, where it turns forwards below the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to unite with the vertebral vein just before that enters the innominate trunk. It is joined by the occipital veins and by branches from the deep parts at the back of the neck, and it has numerous com- munications with the dorsal spinal veins. Varieties.—The vertebral vein not unfrequently passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, or sends a considerable offset through that foramen to join the deep cervical vein. The inferior thyroid veins are of large size, and are formed by branches which emerge from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, where they anastomose with the superior and middle thyroid veins. They form a plexus on the front of the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid body, and then descend along that tube, under cover of the sterno-tliyroid muscles, receiving on their way downwards oesophageal, inferior laryngeal and tracheal branches. The vein of the left side joins the left innominate trunk ; that of the right side either terminates in common with the foregoing, or it inclines somewhat outwards across the innominate artery, and opens into the angle of union of the two inno- minate veins, or less frequently into the lower end of the right inno- minate. There is also in some cases an additional median vein descend- ing from the isthmns of the thyroid body.VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 493 The internal mammary veins are two in number on each side, and accompany# the arteries of the same name. They receive tributaries corresponding to the branches of the artery from the abdominal and thoracic walls and from the mediastinal space, and at the upper part of the thorax the two veins join into a single trunk which terminates in the innominate vein of the same side. The superior intercostal vein is a short vessel which receives the veins from two or three intercostal spaces below the first, and has a different termination on the two sides. The vein of the right side in- clines downwards and enters the upper part of the large azygos vein : that of the left side usually passes forwards across the highest part of the arch of the aorta and joins the left innominate vein; it also communicates below with the commencement of the left upper azygos vein, and sometimes it passes entirely into this vessel. Varieties of tlie superior vena cava and innominate veins.—A considerable number of instances are recorded in which the left innominate vein, being formed in the usual manner, does not cross the middle line to join the corresponding vessel of the right side, but is continued down in front of the arch of the aorta and the root of the left lung to the heart, where it receives the great cardiac vein and then inclines outwards in the usual position of the coronary sinus to open into the right auricle, thus giving rise to what has been termed a left superior vena cava. In some of these cases the right and left veins are connected by a cross branch of small size in the usual position of the left innominate vein. This condition is normal in many animals, and its occurrence in the human sub- ject is due, as will be more fully explained in the description of the mode of development of the great veins, to the persistence of the communication be- tween the left primitive jugular vein and duct of Cuvier in the feetus. A trace of this connection is frequently to be seen in the adult in the form of a small fibrous cord passing from the left superior intercostal vein as it crosses the aorta, within the vestigial fold of the pericardium, to the commencement of the oblique vein on the back of the left auricle. In a few cases such a left superior vena cava has been found opening into the left auricle of the heart (Hyrtl, Gruber, Luschka), and in two instances the coronary sinus has been observed terminating in a similar manner (Lindner, Jeffray). Three examples of a single left superior vena cava, without transposition of the viscera, have been met with, the right innominate vein crossing the middle line and joining the vessel of the left side to form a trunk which has a disposition similar to that of the left superior vena cava described above (Halbertsma, Greenfield, Gruber). In these cases the left duct of Cuvier has remaiued patent and undergone development, while the channel of the right side has be- come occluded. VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The blood returning from the head and neck flows on each side into two principal veins, the external and internal jugular. There are generally no valves in the veins of the head and neck, except at the lower ends of the external and internal jugular veins, near their junction with the subclavian, where valves are always present. The superficial veins of the fore part of the head and the deep veins of the face converge and unite so as to form two principal trunks, the facial and temporo-maxillary veins. From the hinder part of the scalp the blood is collected by the posterior auricular and occipital veins. The facial vein (anterior facial) lies obliquely along the side of the face, extending from the inner margin of the orbit downwards and out- wards to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. Besting on the same plane as the facial artery, but being placed farther back, and494 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. taking a less tortuous course, it has very nearly the same relations to contiguous parts. It commences at the side of the nose ’.by a vein termed angular, which collects blood from the forehead, the upper eyelid and the nose, and it is increased in size by the junction of numerous tributaries on its way downwards. Below the jaw it inclines backwards, covered by the cervical fascia and the platysma myoides, and unites below the digastric muscle with the anterior division of the temporo- maxillary vein to form a short trunk (common facial vein), which opens into the internal jugular about the level of the hyoid bone. From the facial vein near its ending a communicating branch generally runs down- wards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to join the lower part of the anterior jugular vein. Tributaries.—(a) The frontal vein is formed by branches which pass obliquely downwards and inwards from the roof of the skull and the forehead, maintaining communications in their course with the anterior branches of the temporal vein. It descends vertically along the lower and inner part of the forehead, running parallel with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, and beneath the inner end of the eyebrow it terminates in the angular vein. The right and left frontal veins com- municate together by cross branches, and sometimes the two vessels are united for a short distance in a common trunk, which divides again below. (b) The supraorbital vein, much smaller than the frontal, receives branches from the lower part of the forehead, from the eyebrow, and from the upper eyelid, and inclines inwards to join the termination of the frontal vein. It communicates externally with the temporal, and posteriorly with the ophthalmic vein. (c) The angular vein, formed by the junction of the supraorbital and frontal veins, is perceptible beneath the skin as it runs obliquely down- wards and outwards near the inner margin of the orbit, resting against the side of the nose at its root. It receives on its outer side one or two small superior palpebral veins from the upper eyelid, and anteriorly the nasal veins, which pass upwards to join it from the side and dorsum of the nose, while behind it communicates freely with the commencement of the ophthalmic vein. On a level with the lower margin of the orbit it becomes continuous with the facial vein. (d) Two or three inferior palpebral veins pass inwards and down- wards from the lower eyelid and adjacent part of the cheek to join the facial vein below the orbit. A communication is formed between these branches and the infraorbital vein. (e) The superior labial vein forms a close plexus in the substance of the orbicularis muscle in the upper lip (Chabbert), and ascends to open into the facial vein on a level with the ala of the nose. From a similar plexus in the lower lip two or three vessels descend over the base of the inferior maxilla and join the submental branch of the facial or the commencement of the anterior jugular vein. (/) The deep facial or anterior internal maxillary vein is a vessel of considerable size, which passes from the pterygoid plexus downwards and forwards over the zygomatic surface of the superior maxilla to open into the facial vein below the malar bone. (g) Small buccal, masseteric and parotid branches also join the facial vein on its outer side. (li) The submental vein commences below the chin, where it com-495 FACIAL VEIN. municates with the anterior jugular vein, and passes backwards under cover of the base of the lower jaw, receiving branches from the muscles and the submaxillary gland, to join the facial vein. Fig. 289. Fig 289.—Superficial veins or the head and heck. (Gr.D.T.) J 1, frontal vein ; 2, supraorbital ; 3, angular vein, receiving superior palpebral and nasal branches ; 4, 4, facial vein on the face, receiving inferior palpebral, superior labial, parotid and masseteric branches ; + indicates the spot where it is joined by the deep facial vein ; 5, facial vein in the neck, being joined by submental, with inferior labial, glandular and inferior palatine branches ; 6, common facial vein, joining the internal jugu- lar ; 7, communicating branch to 8, the anterior jugular ; 8', transverse branch connecting the two anterior jugular veins ; 9, superficial temporal, and 10, middle temporal, uniting to form the common temporal vein, which is receiving anterior auricular and transverse facial branches ; 10', orbital branch of middle temporal ; 11, internal maxillary vein ; 12, temporo-maxillary vein, the anterior division of which unites with the facial, while the posterior joins 13, the posterior auricular vein, to form 14, the external jugular ; 15, posterior external jugular ; 16, transverse cervical ; 17, suprascapular vein ; 18, occipital veins.VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 496 (i) Sulmaxillary branches from the gland of that name join the facial vein either separately or in common with the submental vein. (j) The inferior 'palatine vein returns the blood from a plexus sur- rounding the tonsil and from the soft palate ; it passes downwards, being deeply seated by the side of the pharynx, to join one of the preceding, or terminate separately in the facial vein. The temporo-maxillary vein (posterior facial) is a short trunk, often presenting a plexiform disposition, which is formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary veins opposite the neck of the lower jaw. It descends, embedded in the substance of the parotid gland, on the outer surface of the external carotid artery to near the angle of the jaw, where it divides into two parts, the one of which inclines for- wards, passing either over or under the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, to join the facial vein, while the other is directed backwards across the border of the sterno-mastoid muscle to form with the posterior auricular the commencement of the external jugular vein. The temporal vein is formed close to the zygoma by the union of two vessels which are known as the superficial and middle temporal veins. The superficial temporal vein takes its origin in branches which spread over the top and side of the head, communicating with one another, with the corresponding vessels of the opposite side, with the frontal vein anteriorly, and with the occipital and posterior auricular veins behind, so as to form a wide-meshed plexus in the subcutaneous tissue. Descending over the temporal fascia, the branches are collected into two vessels corresponding to, although not closely accompanying, the divisions of the artery, superficial to which they are placed, and these joining in front of the ear give rise to the superficial trunk. The middle temporal vein is derived from a plexus in the temporal fossa, from which the deep temporal veins (passing to the pterygoid plexus) also issue, and piercing the temporal fascia near the zygoma unites with the superficial vein. The middle temporal vein is joined by a considerable orbital branch, which, after receiving some external palpebral veins from the eyelids, and communicating with the supraorbital and facial veins, passes backwards with the artery of the same name between the layers of the temporal fascia. The common temporal vein descends over the base of the zygoma, and sinks beneath the parotid gland to form by its junction with the internal maxillary vein the temporo-maxillary trunk. Other tributaries of the temporal vein are the anterior auricular veins from the external ear; branches from a plexus which surrounds the articulation of the lower jaw, and into which one or two small veins issuing from the tympanum by the fissure of Glaser pour their contents ; parotid branches from the gland ; and one or two transverse facial veins from the surface of the masseter muscle. The internal maxillary vein is a short vessel, often double, which passes backwards from the pterygoid plexus in the zygomatic fossa, in company with the first part of the internal maxillary artery, and joins the temporal vein behind the ramus of the jaw. The pterygoid plexus, corresponding to the second and third parts of the internal maxillary artery, is a close network of veins covering both surfaces of the external pterygoid muscle, and extending also over the inner surface of the internal pterygoid. It receives tributaries which are mostly companion veins of the branches of the internal maxillary artery. Thus, three or four deep temporal veins descend from the temporal muscle, and otherPTERYGOID PLEXUS. 497 branches come from the pterygoid and masseter muscles ; a posterior dental or alveolar branch ascends from the surface of the upper jaw, and Fig. 290. Fig. 290.—Diagrammatic view op the sincses op the dura mater and some op the deep veins op the head and neck (modified from Cloquet and other sources). (A.T.) J The greater part of the calvaria has been removed, but an arched strip has been left in the region of the superior longitudinal sinus. The occipital portion of the skull has been entirely removed so as to expose the lateral sinus and its termination in the internal jugular vein ; a, a, falx cerebri ; b, V, tentorium eerebelli; c, zygoma; d, malar bone ; e, angle of jaw ; f, spinous process of axis ; 1, superior longitudinal sinus ; 2, inferior longitudinal sinus ; 2, to 3, straight sinus ; 2', veins of Galen ; 3, lateral sinus, descend- ing to 4, the commencement of the internal jugular vein ; 3', superior petrosal sinus ; 4, 4, internal jugular vein ; 5, superficial temporal vein; 6, middle temporal; 8, internal maxillary joining the common temporal vein to form the temporo-maxillary trunk ; 8', pterygoid plexus receiving the deep temporal veins ; 9, anterior division of the temporo- maxillary trunk, joining the facial vein ; 9', inferior palatine vein ; 10, common facial vein ; 10', submental vein ; 10”, upper part of the facial ; 11, posterior auricular vein; 12, 12, vertebral vein ; 13, 13, dorsal spinal veins ; 14, occipital sinus communicating above the atlas with the posterior spinal plexus ; 15, external jugular vein. VOL. i. K K498 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. another of larger size, inferior dental, from the canal in the lower jaw ; two middle meningeal veins accompany the artery of the same name ; and lastly, superior palatine, infraorbital, and splieno-palatine veins, as well as a communicating branch from the inferior ophthalmic vein, also enter the plexus. The blood is conveyed from the plexus by the deep facial vein (p. 494) anteriorly, and posteriorly by the single or double internal maxillary vein. The posterior auricular vein, of large size in comparison with the artery of the same name, collects the blood from the hinder part of the side of the head and from the cranial surface of the auricle ; it descends over the mastoid process and the upper end of the sterno-mastoid muscle, to terminate in the external jugular vein. The occipital veins, generally two or three in number, issue from the hindmost part of the venous network of the scalp, the most external being also connected in most cases with the lateral sinus within the skull by means of the emissary vein occupying the mastoid foramen (this vein sometimes joins a branch of the posterior auricular) ; descending over the occipital bone, they pass deeply between the muscles of the back of the neck, and empty themselves into the commencement of the deep cervical vein. External jugular vein.—This vein commences near the angle of the jaw by the union of the posterior auricular and the posterior division of the temporo-maxillary veins. It descends with a nearly vertical course between the platysma myoides and the fascia, crossing the sterno-mastoid obliquely and gaining the posterior border of that muscle below. Near the clavicle it perforates the fascia, the margin of the opening being closely united to the wall of the vessel, and then inclines slightly inwards to terminate most frequently in the subclavian vein at the outer border or in front of the anterior scalenus muscle, sometimes in the lower end of the internal jugular, or in the angle between the two large veins. It is joined below the middle of the neck by a considerable vein (posterior external jugular') which descends from the occipital region, collecting branches from the integument and the superficial muscles of the back of the neck, and near its termination by the transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins from the shoulder, corresponding to the arteries of the same name, as well as usually by the anterior jugular vein from the fore part of the neck. The external jugular vein has an imperfect valve close to its termina- tion, and another, which, however, is generally sufficient to prevent regur- gitation, about an inch and a half above the clavicle. There are also valves in the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins, either at or a short distance from their orifices (Struthers, “ Anat. and Phys. Observ.,” p. 246). The anterior jugular vein takes its origin in the submaxillary region by the union of branches, some of which proceed from the superficial structures of this part and form communications with the submental vein, while others descend from the lower lip and chin. The vessel runs down the front of the neck, being placed a variable distance from the middle line, and frequently being connected by one or more cross branches with the external jugular vein ; near the inner end of the clavicle it perforates the fascia, and, after being joined in most cases by a communicating branch from the facial vein, is then directed outwards behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle to open into the lower499 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. end of the external jugular vein, or sometimes directly into the subcla- vian vein. The lower parts of the two anterior jugular veins are generally united by a transverse branch contained in the interfascial space at the upper border of the sternum (p. 289). Varieties of the superficial veins of the head and neck.—These veins are subject to many deviations from the arrangement above described. Thus, the relative size of the two divisions of the temporo-maxillary vein varies greatly, and it not unfrequently happens that one is very small or even absent, so that the trunk is continued mainly or wholly in one set of cases into the external jugular vein, in another set into the internal jugular through the common facial vein. The facial vein occasionally passes backwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle and joins the external jugular vein ; or it may be continued downwards, by means of an enlargement of the normal communicating branch, into the anterior jugular vein. In those instances in which the temporo-maxillary vein passes entirely into the internal jugular, the external jugular vein is very small, being formed solely by the posterior auricular vein ; and in such cases the posterior auricular vein may also join the temporo-maxillary trunk, so that the external jugular vein is then altogether wanting in the greater part of the neck. The lower part of the external jugular vein is occasionally connected with the cephalic vein of the arm by means of a branch passing downwards over the clavicle, and in rare cases the whole vein has been seen taking this course and dipping into the infraclavicular fossa to join the cephalic, or to open into the subclavian vein above the subclavius muscle. The transverse cervical and supra- scapular veins not unfrequently open independently into the subclavian vein. The anterior jugular vein varies greatly in size, and the right and left veins are sometimes united into a single median vessel for a part of their length. As a rare occurrence the anterior jugular vein passes outwards in front of the sterno- mastoid muscle. Internal jugular vein.—This vein, receiving the blood from the cranial cavity, is continuous at its upper extremity with the lateral sinus within the skull, and terminates interiorly in the innominate vein. It commences in the large posterior compartment of the jugular foramen by a dilatation which is termed the sinus or bulb of the internal jugular vein, and then makes its appearance below the base of the skull, where it rests against the rectus capitis lateralis muscle, being placed close behind the internal carotid artery. Inclining gradually to the outer side of that vessel, it descends with a nearly straight course in the neck, and becoming considerably increased in size about the level of the hyoid bone by the junction of the common facial, as well as of several deep veins, it thence accompanies the common carotid artery to the back of the clavicle, under cover of which it unites at a right angle with the subclavian vein. The internal jugular vein lies on the outer side of, and frequently overlaps somewhat, the common carotid artery, and the two vessels, together with the pneumo-gastric nerve, are contained in the same sheath of the deep cervical fascia. Close to, or within an inch of, the lower end of the vein is placed a single or double valve, which is however generally insufficient to completely prevent regurgitation, especially on the left side, where it is not unfrequently absent (Gruber). Lateral tributaries.—(a) The inferior petrosal sinus leaves the skull by the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen, and opens imme- diately into the internal jugular vein. (b) Pharyngeal veins.—These veins form a plexus which covers the outer surface of the pharynx, communicating above on the inner side of the internal pterygoid muscle with the pterygoid plexus, and collecting branches also from the soft palate, the Eustachian tube, and the pre- K K 2500 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. vertebral muscles. From this plexus two or three vessels descend, and open into the internal jugular or the common facial vein, either separately or in union with the lingual or superior thyroid veins. (c) Lingual veins.—The blood conveyed to the tongue by the lingual artery is returned by means of—1, the ranine vein, the largest of the lingual veins, which commences below the tip of the tongue, and passes backwards at first beneath the mucous membrane, and afterwards across the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, in company with the hypo- glossal nerve, receiving branches from the substance of the tongue, the surrounding muscles, the sublingual gland, and the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth ; 2, two venae comites of small size which accompany the lingual artery; and 3, the dorsal veins of the tongue, which proceed from a plexus beneath the mucous membrane on the posterior third of that organ. These vessels are sometimes united in a short common trunk, but more frequently they open separately into the internal jugular or common facial vein. (d) The common facial vein has already been described. (c) The superior thyroid vein leaves the upper part of the thyroid body, after communicating freely with the other thyroid veins, and ascends to join the internal jugular or frequently the common facial vein. It receives branches from the surrounding muscles, and the superior laryngeal and crico-thyroid veins. (/) The middle thyroid vein issues from the lateral lobe of the thyroid body, and crosses the common carotid artery to join the internal jugular vein on a level with, or a little below, the cricoid cartilage. VENOUS CIRCULATION WITHIN THE CRANIUM. The part of the venous system contained within the skull consists of veins properly so called, and of certain channels named sinuses, which receive the blood from those veins, and conduct it to the internal jugular veins. The sinuses alluded to are spaces left between the layers of the dura mater, the fibrous covering of the brain. VEINS OF THE BRAIN. The veins of the cerebrum are divided into superficial, which ramify upon its surface, and deep which are placed within its ventricles. The former are again subdivided into superior and inferior. The superior cerebral veins, ten to twelve in number on each side, run inwards over the upper surface of the large brain, lying for the most part in the sulci between the convolutions, to the margin of the longitu- dinal fissure, where they are joined by branches which ascend on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, and then open into the superior longi- tudinal sinus. The anterior veins are small, and are directed transversely inwards ; the middle and posterior are larger, pass obliquely forwards, and finally are embedded for a short distance in the wall of the sinus before opening into its cavity. Unlike the arteries, these vessels anasto- mose freely with one another and with the inferior cerebral veins. The inferior cerebral veins pass from the outer and lower surfaces of the hemisphere to the cavernous, superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. One of these vessels, known as the middle cerebral vein, is of large size, and, after collecting branches from the under surface of the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, emerges from the lower part of the fissure of501 VEINS OF THE CEREBRUM. Sylvius to enter the cavernous sinus. Another is the great anastomotic vein of Trolard, which commences on the surface of the parietal lobe, where it anastomoses with the upper cerebral veins, and runs forwards in the posterior limb of the fissure of Sylvius ; it perforates the dura mater near the apex of the small wing of the sphenoid, and then passes back- wards in the middle fossa of the base of the skull, forming a communi- cation with the middle meningeal veins, to join the superior petrosal sinus. The deep cerebral veins are collected into two trunks, which are known as the veins of Galen. These vessels commence close to the Fig. 291. Fig. 291.—IT1’PER SURFACE OF THE VELUM INTERPOSITUM, WITH THE CnOROID PLEXUSES of the lateral ventricles and the veins of Galen (from Sappey after Vicq- d’Azyr). § 1, fore part of tlie velum interpositum ; 2, choroid plexus ; 3, 3, left vein of Galen ; 4, veins from the corpus callosum and septum lucidum ; 5, vein of the corpus striatum ; 6, choroid vein ; 7, vein from the optic thalamus ; 8, basilar vein ; 9, vein from the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle ; 11, 12, 13, fornix, divided anteriorly and turned backwards ; 14, splenium of the corpus callosum. foramen of Monro, being formed on each side by the union of the choroid vein, which ascends from the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle along the margin of the velum interpositum, returning the blood from the choroid plexus of that cavity, and the vein of the corpus striatumVEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 502 which passes forwards in the groove between the corpus striatum and optic thalamus, being joined in its course by branches from both these bodies, and near its termination by veins from the septum lucidum and the anterior cornu of the ventricle. The right and left veins of Galen run backwards, lying close together between the layers of the velum inter- position, and beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum they join into a short common trunk (vena magna Galeni) which opens into the anterior extremity of the straight sinus. They receive on their way branches from the inner side of the optic thalamus and the choroid plexuses of the third ventricle, the basilar vein which ascends from the base of the brain round the outer side of the crus cerebri, and small vessels from the corpora quadrigemina and pineal body, and from the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The common trunk is also joined by veins from the inner and lower surfaces of the occipital lobe of each hemisphere, and by some small veins from the upper surface of the cerebellum. The veins of the cerebellum are disposed in two sets. The superior cerebellar veins are directed partly upwards and inwards to the straight sinus and the vena magna Galeni, partly outwards to the superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. The inferior cerebellar veins, together with the veins from the medulla oblongata and pons, enter the inferior petrosal, lateral and occipital sinuses. VENOUS SINUSES OP THE CRANIUM. The sinuses are channels contained within the substance of the dura mater, and lined by a delicate membrane which is continuous with the internal coat of the veins. They admit of a division into two groups, viz., a supero-posterior group, lodged almost entirely in the processes of the dura mater, and an infero-anterior group, situated in the base of the skull. To the former belong the superior longitudinal, the inferior longitudinal, the straight, the lateral, and the occipital sinuses : the latter includes the cavernous, the circular, the superior and inferior petrosal, and the basilar sinuses. The superior longitudinal sinus (fig. 290, 1) commences at the crista galli, where it sometimes (constantly in the child) has a com- munication with the veins of the nasal cavity through the foramen caecum, and extends backwards in the upper border of the falx cerebri, occupying the median groove on the inner surface of the calvaria, and increasing gradually in size as it proceeds. In form it is three-sided, and its cavity is bridged across by several fibrous bands, the chordae, Willisii. The superior cerebral veins open into this sinus, their apertures looking for the most part forwards, in a direction contrary to that of the current within it. It also communicates in many cases with the veins of the scalp, by means of an emissary vein which passes through the parietal foramen. As it descends on the occipital bone the superior longitudinal sinus usually deviates a little from the middle line, and inclines to one side (more frequently the right) of the internal occipital protuberance, where it becomes somewhat enlarged and bends sharply round at a right angle to be continued into the corresponding lateral sinus. This dilatation is lodged in a well-marked depression on the occipital bone, and constitutes what is termed the torcular Herophili or the confluence of the sinuses. From it a cross branch of variable size proceeds over the front of the occipital protuberance to a similar bend503 SINUSES OF THE CRANIUM. formed by the straight sinus passing into the lateral sinus of the opposite side. The inferior longitudinal sinus (fig. 290, 2) is very small, and has so much of a cylindrical form that it is sometimes named inferior longitudinal vein. It passes backwards in the posterior half or more of the lower border of the falx cerebri, and opens into the straight sinus on reaching the anterior margin of the tentorium. It receives branches from the falx, and sometimes from the mesial surface of the hemispheres. The straight sinus (s. tentorii) (fig. 290, 2-3), continuous with the foregoing, is also joined at its commencement by the vena magna Galeni from the interior of the cerebrum. It runs backwards and downwards, along the junction of the falx cerebri and the tentorium, to the internal occipital protuberance, where it is connected by a cross branch, generally of small size, with the torcular Herophili, but is mainly continued into the lateral sinus of the opposite side to that into which the superior longitudinal sinus is prolonged. The straight sinus receives in its course some superior cerebellar veins, and small branches from the tentorium. The lateral sinuses commence at the internal occipital protuberance and terminate on each side at the jugular foramen in the bulb of the internal jugular vein. The sinuses of the two sides generally differ in size, the one into which the superior longitudinal sinus is prolonged being much larger than that of the opposite side, which is formed by a continuation of the straight sinus. Bach sinus passes outwards in the corresponding lateral groove of the occipital bone, lying in the attached margin of the tentorium, to the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, then curves doAvnwards in the sigmoid groove of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, and finally turns forwards over the jugular process of the occipital bone to the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen. It is joined by yeins from the posterior part of the cerebrum, from both surfaces of the cerebellum, and from the diploe, as well as at the point where it turns downwards from the tentorium, by the superior petrosal sinus. Emissary veins passing through the mastoid and posterior condylar foramina connect the lateral sinus with the veins of the exterior of the head. The occipital sinus is a small vessel, generally single, but sometimes double, which is contained in the falx cerebelli. Above, it opens into the torcular Herophili; below, it communicates with the posterior spinal veins, and is usually continued forwards on one or both sides of the foramen magnum to join the lower end of the lateral sinus. It receives one or two small veins from the cerebellum. The cavernous sinuses, placed one on each side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and extending from the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure to the apex of the petrous part of the temporal bone, are of con- siderable size and of very irregular form. Their cavity is traversed by numerous interlacing filaments, which give rise to a structure resembling that of cavernous tissue, and from this circumstance they derive then- name. Enclosed in the outer wall of each are the third, the fourth and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerves as they pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, and lying along the floor of the sinus, covered only by its thin lining membrane, are the internal carotid artery, the sixth nerve and a plexus of the sympathetic. Each sinus receives the ophthalmic veins anteriorly, and communicates internally by means of the circular504 VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. sinus with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, while posteriorly it discharges its blood into the petrosal sinuses. It is also joined by some inferior cerebral veins, and by a small vessel named the spheno- parietal sinus (Breschet), which, after receiving a branch from the dura mater and communicating with the middle meningeal veins, runs inwards in a slight groove on the under surface of the small wing of the sphenoid bone. Fig. 292. Fig. 292.—Internal view of the base of tiie skull, showing the sinuses of the DURA MATER, '&C. (A. T.) ^ The tentorium has been removed, and also a small portion of the roof of the orbit posteriorly on the left side, so as to bring into view the sinuses, which are laid open, the arteries at the base of the skull, and the trunks of the cranial nerves. I, olfactory bulb ; II, the optic nerves ; III, third nerve; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, placed opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; VI, sixth nerve ; VII, facial and auditory nerves ; VIII, placed opposite to the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric and spinal accessory nerves ; IX, hypoglossal nerve ; 1, right internal carotid artery as it makes its turn within the cavernous sinus in the groove of the sphenoid bone ; 2, its ophthalmic branch ; 3, right and left posterior cerebral arteries, from the former of which the posterior communicating artery is seen passing forwards to the internal carotid ; 4, basilar artery ; 5, vertebral arteries giving off the anterior spinal ; x , middle menin- geal artery spreading upwards from the foramen spinosum ; 6, superior petrosal sinus ; 7, inferior petrosal sinus ; 8, termination of the lateral sinus at the jugular foramen ; 8', commencement of the lateral sinus ; 9, occipital sinus, in this case of large size ; 10, torcular Herophili, and below that number in the figure, the superior longitudinal sinus. The circular sinus is the name given to a venous ring surrounding the pituitary body in the sella turcica, and formed by two transverse505 SINUSES OF TIIE CRANIUM. vessels (anterior and posterior intercavernous sinuses) which connect to- gether the right and left cavernous sinuses. Either of these transverse branches may however be wanting, but the anterior, which is usually the larger, is the more constant. On the other hand, there is sometimes an additional vessel passing across below the pituitary body. The superior petrosal sinus is a narrow canal running in the groove along the upper margin of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Commencing at the back part of the cavernous sinus, it is directed out- wards and backwards in the attached margin of the tentorium cerebelli, and ends in the lateral sinus as this turns downwards in the groove on the mastoid part of the temporal bone. It is joined by some inferior cerebral and superior cerebellar veins, as well as by small branches from the tympanum, which issue by the petro-squamous fissure (p. 41). The inferior petrosal sinus, much shorter and wider than the superior, passes from the cavernous sinus downwards and outwards in the groove along the lower margin of the petrous bone, between this and the basilar process of the occipital bone. It passes through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen and opens immediately into the upper end of the internal jugular vein. The inferior petrosal sinus receives some inferior cerebellar veins, and the auditory veins from the internal ear. The transverse or basilar sinus (basilar plexus—Virchow) is a venous network excavated in the dura mater over the basilar process of the occipital bone, opening into the inferior petrosal sinus on each side, and into the anterior spinal veins below. Varieties of the sinuses.—The disposition of the sinuses around the torcular Ilerophili is subject to considerable variation. It occasionally happens that the lower part of the superior longitudinal sinus is placed in the middle line, and then the straight sinus opens into the front, while the lateral sinuses spring from the sides, of the torcular, so that a true confluence of the sinuses is formed. In other instances the connecting branch between the torcular and the straight sinus is of large size, and conveys blood from the superior longitudinal sinus, which then empties itself equally into both lateral sinuses. In either of the fore- going arrangements, the right and left lateral sinuses are of equal size, a condition, however, which is of comparatively unfrequent occurrence (Riidinger, “ Beitrage zur Anatomie” &c., Munchen, 1876). A great diminution, or even absence, of one lateral stilus has been met with, the vessel of the opposite side being much enlarged. The occipital sinus is sometimes wanting ; or it may be of large size and form a groove on the occipital bone, by the side of the foramen magnum, as it passes forwards to the jugular foramen (fig. 292). An additional petro-squamous sinus is sometimes present, lying in a small groove along the junction of the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone, and opening behind into the lateral sinus. In rare cases the petro-squamous sinus is found passing through an aperture (.foramen jugular e spurium) in the squamous part of the temporal bone, between the orifice of the external auditory meatus and the glenoid cavity, and then joining the temporal vein, thus re- sembling the arrangement in the dog and many other animals, in which a similar vessel forms the principal outlet for the intracranial blood. In the human subject also, at an early period of foetal life, the lateral sinus is continued forwards in this course, and opens into the primitive (afterwards the external) jugular vein, and the occurrence of a petro-squamous sinus is due to the per- sistence of this channel, which usually becomes obliterated after the development of the internal jugular vein. (On the varieties of the sinuses, see J. F. Knott, Journ. Anat., xvi., 27.)VEIN'S OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 506 OPHTHALMIC VEINS. The ophthalmic veins are two in number, and collect the blood from the parts within the orbit. The superior, much the larger, commences near the root of the nose by a wide communication with the angular vein, and is also joined, usually near its origin, by another communicating branch from the supraorbital vein. It passes backwards Fig. 293. Fig. 293.—Sketch op the ophthalmic veins, showing their distribution and com- munications with other veins (altered from Hirschfelcl an cl Leveille). (A. T.) The orbit is opened from the outer side and the dissection is similar to that for displaying the ophthalmic artery (fig. 239, p. 384) : a, optic nerve; b, superior oblique muscle, divided a little way behind its pulley; c, lachrymal gland lying upon the eyeball ; d, inferior oblique muscle ; e, foramen rotundum ; /, maxillary sinus, opened externally : I, cavernous sinus, being joined by the common trunk of the ophthalmic veins ; 1, supraorbital vein, joining the angular below and communicating behind (in this case by a long branch) with the superior ophthalmic vein ; 2, inferior ophthalmic vein ; 3, posterior ciliary veins; 4, 4, anterior and posterior ethmoidal branches, joining the superior ophthalmic vein ; 5, frontal vein ; 6, in front of the maxillary sinus, infraorbital vein ; 6, in the orbit, communication of the inferior ophthalmic vein with the pterygoid jdexus ; II, facial vein ; 7, deep facial from the pterygoid plexus ; 8, 8, 8, nasal branches ; 9, 10, angular vein ; III, temporo-maxillary trunk, formed by the union of IV, the temporal and V, the internal maxillary veins ; 11, meningeal branch ; 12, inferior dental; 13, 14, muscular, alveolar and communicating branches; 15, placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa above the spheno-palatine vein; only a few branches of the ptery- goid plexus are represented. in company with the ophthalmic artery, crossing the optic nerve from within outwards, and gains the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, where it opens into the fore part of the cavernous sinus. It is joined in its course by anterior and posterior ethmoidal, muscular and lachrymal branches, and near its termination by the central vein of the retina, all ofVEINS OF THE DIPLOE. Fig. 294.—Veins op the Fig. 294. 507 which correspond generally to the arteries of the same name. The veins from the eyeball are called anterior and posterior ciliary. The anterior ciliary veins are small and aocoinpany the corresponding arteries ; per- forating the sclerotic coat close to the cornea, they join the muscular branches of the ophthalmic veins. The posterior ciliary veins, of larger size, are four or five in number, emerge from the eyeball about midway between the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve, and end partly in the superior, partly in the inferior ophthalmic vein. The inferior ophthalmic vein is formed by the union of the lower posterior ciliary veins with some branches from the muscles, and passes back- wards near the floor of the orbit to open also into the cavernous sinus, either separately or in common with the superior ophthalmic vein. It sends a communicating branch downwards through the spheno-maxillary fissure to the pterygoid plexus, and sometimes this offset forms the chief or sole termination of the vein. VEINS OP THE DIPLOE. The veins of the diploe of the cranial bones are only to be seen after the peri- cranium is detached, and the external table of the skull carefully removed by means of a file. Lodged in canals hollowed in the substance of the bones, their DIPLOE OP THE CRANIAL bones (after Breschet). -j The external table has been removed from the greater part of the calvaria so as to expose the diploe and the veins which have been injected : 1, a single frontal vein ; 2, 3, anterior temporal vein; 4, posterior temporal ; 5, occipital vein of the diploe. branches form an irregu- lar network, from which a few larger vessels issue. These are directed downwards at different parts of the cranium, and terminate, partly in the veins on the outer surface of the bones, and partly in the sinuses of the interior of the skull. According to Breschet there are four such veins on each half of the cranium, viz., a frontal, an occipital, and two temporal. The frontal is small, and issues by an aperture at the supraorbital notch to join the supraorbital vein. There is often only one frontal vein present. The tenmpral are distinguished as anterior and posterior. The anterior is con- tained chiefly in the frontal bone, but may extend also into the parietal; it opens externally into a deep temporal vein, through an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid, and internally into the spheno-parietal sinus. The posterior ramifies in the parietal bone, and passes through an aperture at the lower and hinder angle of that bone, or through the mastoid foramen, to the lateral sinus. The occipital is the largest of all, and opens either externally into the oc- cipital vein, or internally into the torcular Herophili or the lateral sinus. Its ramifications are confined especially to the occipital bone.VEINS OF THE UPPER LIME. 503 EMISSARY VEINS. The emissary veins are vessels which pass through apertures in the wall of the cranium and establish communications between the sinuses and the veins of the exterior of the skull. They vary much in size in different individuals, and some of them are not always present. The following vessels may be included in this group, viz. :— (a) The mastoid emissary is the largest and most constant of these veins; it passes through the mastoid foramen between the lateral sinus and the outermost occipital, or less frequently the posterior auricular vein. (5) The parietal emissary, occupying the parietal foramen and connecting the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp, is usually of small size, and is frequently wanting on one or both sides. (e) The condylar emissary is also inconstant; it passes from the lateral sinus through the posterior condylar foramen to the plexus surrounding the cervical vertebrae. (d) A minute occipital emissary (Henle) is sometimes present, passing from the torcular Ilerophili, through a foramen which opens on the external occipital protuberance, to one of the occipital veins. (e) Two or three small veins descend from the cavernous sinus through the foramen ovale, and others through the fibrous tissue in the foramen lacerum, to the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexuses. (/) A small plexus, prolonged from the cavernous sinus, accompanies the internal carotid artery in the carotid canal, and opens below into the internal jugular vein (Rektorzik). (y) A venous ring surrounds the hypoglossal nerve as it enters the anterior condylar foramen, and communicates internally with the occipital sinus, exter- nally with the deep veins of the neck (Luschka). VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The veins of the upper limb are divisible into two sets, the superficial, which are placed between the fascia and the skin, and the deep, which accompany the arteries. The superficial veins are much larger than the deep, and take a greater share in returning the blood, especially from the distal portion of the limb. Both sets are provided with valves, and these are more numerous in the deep than in the subcutaneous veins. Valves are constantly present at the entrance of branches into the main vessels. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The two principal cutaneous veins of the forearm, the radial and the posterior ulnar, commence on the dorsum of the hand by a plexus into which the branches from both surfaces of the fingers empty themselves. Two smaller veins, the median and the anterior ulnar, ascend on the front of the forearm ; and at the bend of the elbow all these vessels become connected so as to give rise to two trunks, the basilic and cephalic veins, which are continued up the arm. The radial vein takes origin from the outer part of the plexus on the back of the hand, and is also joined at the upper end of the first interosseous space by a communicating branch of considerable size from the venae comites of the deep palmar arch (Braune). It ascends along the outer border of the forearm, receiving numerous branches in its course, and at the bend of the elbow, in the hollow on the outer side of the biceps muscle, it unites with the median-cephalic division of the median vein to form the cephalic vein.509 SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF FOREARM. Fig. 295.—The superficial veins of the upper limb, from before (the arrangement of the veins of the hand after Braune). (G. D. T.). i 1, cephalic vein ; 2, basilic ; 3, radial ; 4, median-cephalic ; 5, median, receiving a large branch from the outer side of the wrist, and being joined near its division by the deep median vein ; t>, median-basilic ; 7, anterior ulnar ; 8, posterior ulnar vein. The posterior ulnar vein com- mences in the inner part of the dorsal plexus of the hand, and also receives a communicating branch issuing behind the abductor minimi digiti muscle from the deep veins of the palm (Braune). It proceeds along the posterior aspect of the ulnar border of the limb, lying- on the surface of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, and just below (occasionally above) the internal condyle of the humerus turns forwards to join the median-basilic division of the median vein, thus giving rise to the basilic vein. The anterior ulnar vein, much smaller than the posterior, ascends along the inner part of the front of the forearm, and at the bend of the elbow either joins the posterior ulnar or opens separately into the median-basilic vein. The median vein is generally of small size, and results from the union of two or three vessels which pass upwards from a fine plexus in the palm of the hand, receiving other branches in the forearm and communicating freely on either side with the radial and ulnar veins ; but not unfrequently it is large and forms the principal out- let of the dorsal plexus of the hand on the outer side, in which case the radial vein is proportionally reduced in size. It ascends to the hollow in front of the elbow, and there terminates by dividing into the median-basilic and median-cephalic veins, which diverge upwards from each other, lying one on each side of the prominent tendon of the biceps muscle. Close to its bifurca- tion this vessel receives a short wide branch, the deep median vein, which Fig. 295. if jFig. 296. VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. Fig. 296.—The superficial veins at the bend of 510 pierces the fascia, and forms a communication between it and the deep veins accompanying the arteries. The median-basilic vein, usually the larger of the two divisions of the median, is directed inwards to join the commencement of the basilic vein. It passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the semilunar fascia of the biceps, and it is crossed by branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. The median-cephalic vein inclines outwards in the hollow between the biceps and the supinator longus muscles, passing in front of the the elbow (from R. Quain). y The full description of this figure will be found at p. 410. At 1, the fascia is opened in front of the brachial artery and its accompanying veins ; the inner vena comes has been divided, the outer, marked 2, is entire ; +, median nerve ; 3, basilic vein ; 3', 3', ulnar veins ; 4, cephalic vein; 4', radial vein ; 5, 5, median vein ; 5 to 4', median- cephalic ; 5 to 3', median-basilic. musculo-cutaneous nerve, and joins the radial to form the cephalic vein. The basilic vein, the largest of the veins of the arm, ascends in the groove on the inner side of the biceps muscle, lying internal to the situation of the brachial artery ; it perforates the fascia somewhat below the middle of the arm, and is continued upwards into the axillary vein. The cephalic vein is directed upwards in the groove along the outer border of the biceps muscle, and then between the pectoralis major and the deltoid; finally dipping in between the last two muscles, it crosses the first part of the axillary artery, and opens into the axillary vein between the upper border of the pectoralis minor and the clavicle. Varieties.—The superficial veins of the forearm are subject to great variation, both in the disposition and size of their trunks, and in their arrangement at the bend of the elbow. The radial vein may be very small or even absent, and in such cases the cephalic vein may also be wanting, the branches from the outer side of the forearm being collected into the median vein, which is continued directly into the median-basilic. It occasionally happens that the anterior ulnar vein is larger than the posterior. The median-basilic rein is not unfrequently double. The cephalic rein sometimes passes up over the clavicle and terminates in the external jugular vein ; or these two vessels may be united by a communicating branch (_jugulo-ceplialic) in this situation. In two cases this communicating branch has been seen to perforate the bone (Allen Thomson). The cephalic vein is occasionally found passing backwards between the subclavius muscle and the clavicle to join the lower end of the subclavian vein.BRACHIAL VEINS. 511 DEEP VEINS OF THE UPPER LIMB. The brachial artery and its various branches in the arm, forearm and hand, are each accompanied by two veins, named vence comites. These companion veins lie one on each side of the corresponding- artery, and are connected with each other at intervals by short cross branches, which in some places closely surround the artery. Their distribution so nearly corresponds with that of the arteries, that they need not be more particularly described. The brachial veins, or yen® comites of the brachial artery, terminate near the lower margin of the subscapularis muscle by joining the axillary Fig. 297. The blood-vessels of the axilla and arm from the inner side (R. Quain). J The detailed description of this figure will be found at p. 409. The following numbers indicate the principal veins :—2, axillary vein; 3, 3, basilic vein ; 3', median basilic ; 4, 4', cephalic vein ; 6, alar thoracic and subscapular ; 7, one of the brachial veins. vein ; not unfrequently, however, the inner one unites with the basilic vein soon after that vessel passes beneath the fascia. Between the several veins of the upper limb numerous communica- tions exist in their whole course. Thus, those which lie beneath the integument are freely connected to each other by cross branches in the hand and forearm. Not only are the veins in each pair of venae comites united by short transverse vessels crossing the artery which they accom- pany, but also those accompanying different arteries have frequent con- nections with each other. Lastly, the subcutaneous and the deep veins communicate freely, especially in the neighbourhood of the joints. This general anastomosis ensures the continuance of the circulation during muscular action in the frequent and varied motions of the limb. The axillary vein is of large size and collects all the blood returning from the upper limb. It is formed by the continuation upwards of theVEINS OF THE UTTER LIMB. 512 basilic vein of the arm, and extends, like the corresponding artery, from the lower border of the teres major muscle to the outer margin of the first rib. It is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery and has similar relations to the surrounding muscles. Lateral tributaries.—The axillary vein receives in its course the several veins corresponding to the branches of the axillary artery, viz., the two circumflex, subscapular, long thoracic, alar thoracic, acromio-thoracic (opening in common with the cephalic vein) and the superior thoracic veins ; at the lower border of the subscapularis muscle it is joined by one or both of the brachial venae comites, and near its termination by the cephalic vein. The subclavian vein is the continuation of the axillary, and extends from the outer margin of the first rib to the inner border of the anterior scalenus muscle, where it terminates by uniting with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. It crosses over the first rib and behind the clavicle, being placed at a lower level and therefore pursuing a less arched course than the artery, from which it is separated by the anterior scalenus muscle and the phrenic nerve. The subclavian vein is joined, usually close to the outer border of the anterior scalenus, by the external jugular vein, and it has constantly a pair of valves placed immediately outside the entrance of the latter vessel (Struthers, op. cit., p. 244). The wall of the subclavian vein adheres closely to the fascial sheath by which it is invested, and this being intimately connected in front with the costo-coracoid membrane and the back of the clavicle (p. 196), the vessel becomes expanded when the shoulder is carried forwards. Hence care should be taken in operations about the root of the neck or the shoulder in order to avoid the danger of air being drawn into the circula- tion by movements of the limb. Varieties.—The subclavian vein is occasionally placed at a higher level than usual as it curves inwards, rising above the clavicle into the neck, and over- lapping the subclavian artery. It has also been seen in rare cases passing between the subclavius muscle and the clavicle (Luschka), lying with the arteiy behind the anterior scalenus, changing places with the artery, or, lastly, dividing into two parts, which were placed, one in front of, the other behind the anterior scalenus (Luschka). It often receives separately the anterior jugular, the supra- scapular or the transverse cervical vein ; occasionally the cephalic vein. Other unusual tributaries that have been met with are the brachial venae comites (W. Krause), and on the left side a bronchial vein (M. J. Weber). AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins are longitudinal vessels resting against the thoracic portion of the spinal column, and formed by the union of the veins cor- responding to the arteries of the intercostal spaces. In the lower part of the thorax the two veins of opposite sides are disposed symmetrically, but higher up the blood gathered from most of the veins of the left side is poured into the trunk on the right, which becomes enlarged and unsymmetrical, and has on that account received the name of large or right azygos, while the united vessels from the corresponding parts on the left side constitute the small or left azygos veins. The right or large azygos vein (vena azygos major) commences in the abdomen, generally by an anastomotic vessel (ascending lumbar vein) which connects together the several lumbar veins, and establishes a513 AZYGOS VEINS. communication below, either directly or indirectly, with the common iliac vein. It is also joined in many cases hy a branch which Ficr. 298.—Sketch op the principal systemic VENOUS TRUNKS, (A. T). t SHOWING THE AZYGOS VEINS. Fig. 298. For the detailed description of this figure see p. 491. The following indications relate to the accom- panying part of the text: 8, left superior intercostal vein, continued below into the left upper azygos vein ; the superior intercostal vein of the right side is seen passing downwards into the large azygos vein ; 9, 9, 9, large azygos vein ; 9', left lower azygos vein; 10, thoracic duct; 11, inferior vena cava; 12, union of a branch of the left lower azygos with the left renal vein ; 13, 13', right and left ascending lumbar veins, continued upwards into the corres- ponding azygos veins ; 15, union of lumbar, ilio- lumbar, and sacral veins. opens distally into the inferior vena cava, or into the renal vein, and occa- sionally it takes its origin solely in this way. Passing from the abdomen into the thorax through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, or to the outer side of that opening through the fibres of the right crus, the azygos vein ascends on the bodies of the dorsal vertebra? to the level of the fifth rib, where it arches forwards over the root of the right lung, and then opens into the superior vena cava, immediately above the point at which that vessel perforates the pericardium. When passing through the opening in the diaphragm, this vein is accompanied by the thoracic duct, both being situated on the right side of the aorta. In the thorax, maintaining the same position with respect to the duct and the aorta, it passes in front of the inter- costal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. It receives the intercostal veins of the right side, with the exception of that from the first space, the upper two or three of these vessels being united into a short common trunk which is known as the superior intercostal vein (p. 493), and which opens into the commencement of the arch of the azygos vein. It is also joined by the left azygos veins, by the right bronchial vein, and by several small oesophageal, peri- cardial, and posterior mediastinal veins. The left lower or small azygos vein (v. hemiazygos) commences as the ascend- ing lumbar vein of the left side, or frequently by a communication with the VOL. i. ‘SI m-t, T corresponding renal vein, L LAZYGOS VEINS. 514 seldom with the suprarenal or spermatic. It enters the thorax through the left crus of the diaphragm and ascends upon the spine, in front of the lower intercostal arteries, to the level (most frequently) of the ninth dorsal vertebra, where it crosses to the right behind the aorta and opens into the large azygos vein. It receives the intercostal veins from the lower three or four spaces of the left side, and some small branches from the mediastinum. The left upper azygos vein (v. hemiazygos accessoria) is formed by the union of the veins from four or five intercostal spaces, generally from the fourth to the seventh or eighth inclusive, and it receives also some mediastinal branches and the left bronchial vein. It communi- cates above with the superior intercostal vein, and below it opens into the large azygos vein, either separately or in common with the left lower azygos vein. The intercostal veins are single vessels lying in the intercostal spaces above the arteries, which they follow closely in their ramifications. They are joined by large posterior branches, collecting blood from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus and the spinal canal, and by small twigs from the bodies of the vertebrae, before terminating in the superior intercostal or azygos veins. The vein from the first space passes forwards in company with the superior intercostal artery, and opens into the innominate vein or one of its branches, most frequently the vertebral (B. G. Morison, Journ. Anat., xiii., 346). The Ironchial veins are of small size and return only a portion of the blood conveyed to the lungs by the bronchial arteries. They are formed by the union of branches from the larger bronchial tubes, as well as from the other structures of the lung, and issue at the hilus of that organ, where they receive other twigs from the lower part of the trachea and from a fine plexus in the posterior mediastinum. The vein of the right side opens into the large azygos vein near its termination ; that of the opposite side ends in the left upper azygos vein. The minute veins from the smaller bronchial tubes, and some of those from the larger ones, terminate in the pulmonary veins, as do also several branches from the mediastinal plexus (Zuckerkandl, Wiener Sitzungsber., 1881). As the azygos veins communicate below with the inferior vena cava or some of the branches of that vessel, while they terminate above in the superior cava, they form a supplementary channel by which blood can be conveyed from the lower part of the body to the heart in cases of obstruction of the inferior trunk. There is generally a valve, most frequently consisting of two segments, in the arch or at the upper end of the ascending portion of the large azygos vein, but in the majority of cases it is not sufficient to close the vessel completely. In rare instances only is a valve present in the left lower azygos vein at or near its termi- nation. The intercostal veins from the upper spaces have valves more frequently than not at their openings into the azygos veins; in the lower' intercostal veins valves are seldom present (Gruber, Arch. f. Anat., 1866). Varieties.—The azygos veins of the left side present many varieties both in the number of intercostal veins which each receives, and in the manner in which they are connected with the large azygos vein. Two or three of the middle intercostal veins of the left side frequently unite into a short intermediate trunk, which passes directly into the large azygos vein ; or the left upper azygos vein may be absent, the intercostal veins which usually form that vessel being continued across the spine and opening independently into the main stem. TheVEINS OF THE SPINE. 515 left superior intercostal and upper azygos veins are sometimes represented by a single vessel, which may join either the corresponding innominate vein above, or the large azygos vein below. Occasionally all the intercostal veins of the left side are collected into a longitudinal trunk which terminates in the left innominate vein, the arrangement corresponding to that on the right side ; and, on the other hand, instances are sometimes met with in which there is only a single azygos vein ascending on the front of the spine and receiving- the inter- costal veins of both sides. Transposition of the azygos veins is recorded by Gruber, the larger vessel being placed on the left side, receiving the smaller right veins, and then arching forwards over the root of the left lung to open into the left end of the coronary sinus of the heart, thus resembling the condition which is normal in the sheep and some other animals. The foregoing varieties are readily explained by reference to the mode of development of these vessels (see Vol. II). In several cases the inferior vena cava has been seen continued into the azygos vein, which is then of course extremely large (see varieties of the inferior cava), and the spermatic vein or, on the left side, the renal and suprarenal veins have also been observed terminating in the same manner. VEINS OF THE SPINE. The veins of the spine form plexuses extending along- the whole length of the column, and may be divided into the following sets : 1, the dorsal, placed deeply in the vertebral grooves ; 2, the veins of the bodies of the vertebrae; 8, the anterior longitudinal, lying within the canal at the back of the bodies of the vertebra ; 4, the posterior longitudinal, also situated within the canal, along the fore part of the arches of the vertebra ; and 5, the veins of the spinal cord. There are likewise branches of communication, some of which unite the several sets with one another, while others bring them into connection with the general venous system. The veins of the spine have no valves. (See Breschet, “Les Yeines du Rachis,” and “Le Systeme Veineux,” Paris, 1829 ; Cloquet, “Anatomic descriptive,” &c.) The dorsal spinal veins are derived from the muscles and integu- ment of the back, and form a plexus over the arches of the vertebrae. The largest tributaries pass forwards by the side of the interspinous liga- ments, proceeding in many cases from a median longitudinal vessel placed over the spinous processes of several vertebrae. Offsets from the plexus perforate the ligamenta subflava to join the posterior longitudinal veins within the spinal canal, and at the outer part of the vertebral groove other veins are given off, which pass forwards between the trans- verse processes and open into the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, or in the neck, where the plexus is most developed, into the vertebral vein. The veins of the bodies of the vertebrae are comparatively large vessels contained in the canals within these bones, the arteries which accompany them being very small. They anastomose on the front of the vertebra with the veins in that situation, and the trunk of each, having reached the spinal canal through the single or double foramen on the posterior surface of the body of the vertebra, opens into the corresponding transverse branch uniting the anterior longitudinal veins. The anterior longitudinal spinal veins are two large plexiform vessels which extend the whole length of the spinal canal, lying bejiind the bodies of the vertebra, one along each edge of the posterior common ligament. These vessels are dilated opposite the bodies of the vertebra, whore the right and left veins are connected by large transverse branches L T, 2VEINS OP THE SriNE. 516 placed between the posterior common ligament and the bones, and con- stricted over each intervertebral disc, at which point an offset is sent outwards through the corresponding intervertebral foramen. Superiorly, the anterior spinal veins communicate with the basilar sinus through the foramen magnum, and form, with the posterior longitudinal veins and the lower end of the occipital sinus, a venous ring in the substance of the dura mater round that opening. Fig. 299, A and B.—Horizontal and sagittal SECTIONS OF LOWER DORSAL VERTEBRAE, SHOWING THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL VEINS OF THE SPINE (after Brescliet). § a, spinous process; b, transverse process; c, body ; cl, spinal canal; 1, external veins of the body ; 2, dorsal spinal veins, communicating with the internal and forming a plexus over the laminie and processes ; 3, posterior, and 4, anterior internal plexus of veins of the spinal canal; 5, internal veins of the body joining the anterior spinal veins ; 6, posterior branches of the intercostal veins. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins, also two in number, are contained in the loose tissue between the dura mater and the posterior wall of the spinal canal. They are often much broken up in parts of their course, and they communicate with one another by numerous cross branches on the anterior surface of the arches of the vertebrae, with the dorsal spinal veins by branches perforating the ligamenta subflava, and with the occipital sinus by branches which ascend through the fora- men magnum. From the plexus thus formed offsets pass outwards to the intervertebral foramina, where they join the similar branches given off by the anterior longitudinal veins. The veins of the spinal cord are of small size and run with a tortuous course in the substance of the pia mater, where they form a network with elongated meshes. They are larger below than above, and one vessel, which exceeds the others in size, lies beneath the ante- rior spinal artery over the anterior median fissure of the cord. They communicate with the veins of the spinal canal by means of branches which accompany the nerves to the intervertebral foramina, and at the upper end of the cord they unite to form two or three small trunks which join the inferior cerebellar veins, or open into the inferior petrosal sinuses. From a consideration of the connection and arrangement of the different parts of these complex veins, it would appear that the main currents of the blood flow through them horizontally in the rings that are formed by the'transverse branches between the longitudinal veins, and the offsets proceeding from the latter to the intervertebral fora- mina. The veins issuing from the spinal canal open, according to the region in which they are placed, into the vertebral veins, into the posterior branches of the intercostal and lumbar veins, and into the lateral sacral veins.517 INFERIOR VENA CAYA. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior or ascending vena cava returns the blood from the lower limbs and abdomen. It begins at the junction of the two common iliac veins in front of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and thence ascends along the right side of the aorta, being covered by the duodenum, pancreas, and commencement of the portal vein, to the posterior border of the liver ; there it becomes embedded in a deep groove, not unfrequently a canal, in that organ, and inclines forwards to reach its opening in the tendon of the diaphragm, to the margin of which the wall of the vessel is firmly united. After perforating the diaphragm, it is enclosed for a very short distance in a fold of the serous layer of the pericardium, and then terminates by entering the right auricle of the heart. A semilunar valve, known as the valve of Eustachius, is situated over its entrance into the auricle, but this, as explained in the description of the heart, is only the vestige of a foetal structure, variable in size, and without in- fluence in preventing reflux of the blood. Tributaries.—Besides the common iliac veins, the inferior vena cava receives the following :— 1. The lumbar veins (fig. 298, p. 513) correspond in number with the arteries of the same name. They are formed by the junction of anterior branches from the wall of the abdomen, where they communi- cate with the epigastric and other neighbouring veins, and posterior branches, of larger size, which receive tributaries from the muscles of the back, the dorsal spinal plexus, and the spinal canal. Passing for- wards upon the bodies of the vertebrae, behind the psoas muscle, and on the left side also behind the aorta, they terminate by opening into the back of the inferior vena cava. Two of the vessels, either of the same or of opposite sides, may join together into a single trunk before their termination. The lumbar veins of each side communicate with one another by means of branches which cross in front of the transverse processes, and in this way a longitudinal vessel is formed, called the ascending lumbar vein, which connects together more or less completely the lateral sacral, ilio-lumbar, common iliac, and lumbar veins, and is continued upwards into the corresponding azygos vein. 2. The spermatic veins (in the male) proceed upwards from the testicle and epididymis, and form in the spermatic cord a thick plexus of convoluted vessels known as the spermatic or pampiniform plexus. Passing through the inguinal canal into the abdomen, in company with the spermatic artery, the branches from this plexus join into two or three veins, and these again unite into a single vessel which ascends be- neath the peritoneum, on the surface of the psoas muscle, and opens on the right side into the vena cava, on the left into the renal vein. The spermatic veins sometimes bifurcate before their termination, and in this case one branch may enter the vena cava, the other the renal vein. In the female the ovarian veins have the same general course as the ovarian arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary (ovarian or pampini- form plexus') in the broad ligament, and communicate freely with the uterine plexus. Imperfect valves are present in the spermatic veins below the external abdominal ring ; and in exceptional cases they have been seen in the ovarian veins. There is also in most cases a valve at the termination of each spermatic or ovarian vein, but this is not unfrequently absent on518 INFERIOR VENA CAVA. the left side, and then a valve will generally be found in the renal vein not more than a quarter of an inch from the entrance of the former vessel (Kivington, Journ. Anat., vii., 163). 3. The renal or emulgent veins are short but wide vessels which issue from the hilus of the kidney, and pass inwards in front of the corresponding arteries to join the vena cava nearly at a right angle, the left usually a little higher up than the right. The vein of the left side is also longer than the right, and passes in front of (rarely behind) the aorta. The renal veins receive small branches from the suprarenal bodies, and the left is joined also by the spermatic and capsular veins of the same side. Valves are occasionally present in the renal veins or in some of their branches (Rivington). 4. The capsular or suprarenal veins are, relatively to the organs from which they arise, of considerable size. On the right side the vein ends in the vena cava, on the left in the renal vein. 5. The hepatic veins return the blood conveyed to the liver by the portal vein and the hepatic artery. They converge to the groove in which the inferior vena cava lies, and are collected mainly into two or three large trunks which open obliquely into that vessel. There is also a variable number of smaller branches which collect the blood from the adjacent portions of the gland and pass directly into the vena cava. The hepatic veins have no valves ; but, owing to their oblique entrance into the vena cava, a semilunar fold is formed at the lower border of the orifice of each vein. 6. The inferior phrenic veins are two in number on each side, and follow the course of the arteries of the same name. On the left side these veins often join the suprarenal vein. Varieties.—It occasionally happens that the left common iliac vein is con- tinued upwards on the left side of the aorta, after having given off, in most of these cases, a connecting branch of variable size to the right vein at the usual place of junction. About the level of the second lumbar vertebra it receives the left renal vein, and then crosses in front of (very rarely behind) the aorta to join the right common iliac vein, which passes up in the usual place of the inferior vena cava. The vein on the left of the aorta in these cases is regarded by W. Krause as a persistent lower portion of the left cardinal vein of the foetus. In rarer cases the inferior vena cava is placed in the lower part of its course on the left side of the aorta, and crosses over the latter vessel to gain its usual situation, after having been joined by the left renal vein. It is obvious that this condition would result from the foregoing variety if the vein of the right side were obliterated. In cases of transposition of the viscera, without other abnormality (p. 35G), the inferior vena cava is of course on the left side of the aorta throughout. In a few instances the inferior vena cava, instead of ending in the right auricle of the heart, has been seen following the course of the right, or even of the left, azygos vein, passing through the diaphragm by the side of the aorta, and ascending through the posterior mediastinum, to join the superior vena cava, which therefore returns the blood from nearly the whole of the body. In these cases the hepatic veins do not join the inferior cava, but form a trunk which opens into the right auricle at the usual place of termination of that vessel. In this variety it may be supposed that the normal inferior cava has not been developed, and that the blood is returned from the lower part of the body by a persistent cardinal vein. (See the account of the development of the great veins in Yol. II.) Supernumerary renal veins are occasionally met with, but not so frequently as supernumerary arteries; and one of these vessels on the left side may open into the corresponding azygos vein, as may also the spermatic or suprarenal vein.COMMON ILIAC VEINS. 619 The hcpatio veins have been seen forming1 a trunk which opened independently into the right auricle (Hyrtl) ; and a single hepatic vein has been found to end in this way (Kadyi), or in the left auricle (Breschet), or in the right ventricle of the heart, where its orifice was guarded by a valve (Rothe). COMMON ILIAC VEINS. The common iliac veins are formed on each side by the confluence of the external and internal iliac veins. Extending from the base of the sacrum upwards to near the junction of the fifth with the fourth lumbar vertebra, at a point a little to the right of the middle line, the two common iliac veins unite to form the inferior vena cava. The right vein is shorter than the left, and is nearly vertical in its direction. The right vein is placed behind, and then to the outer side of its artery ; while the left vein is to the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and then passes behind the right. These veins are usually destitute of valves, but in a few instances one has been met with (Friedreich). Lateral tributaries.—The ilio-lumbar vein collects branches from the hinder part of the abdominal wall, from the muscles of the back, and from the spinal canal, and emerges from beneath the psoas muscle to enter the lower part of the common iliac vein. It communi- cates above with the lumbar, and below with the lateral sacral veins. The middle sacral veins, two in number, ascend on the front of the sacrum with the middle sacral artery, and join above into a single vessel which opens into the left common iliac, or occasionally into the angle of union of the two large veins. They anastomose freely with the lateral sacral veins, and by smaller branches with the veins of the rectum. Varieties.—The common iliac vein is sometimes divided into two vessels for a portion of its extent. Absence of the common iliac vein of one or both sides has been met with by Gruber, the left external and internal iliac veins in one instance being continued upwards to enter the commencement of the inferior cava, and in another the two internal iliac veins being joined into a common trunk which unites with the right and left external iliac veins to form the vena cava (Virchow’s Archiv., liv., 190). VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB AND PELVIS. The veins of the lower limb are divisible into two sets, those of the one being deeply seated, those of the other running in the superficial fascia. All the veins of the lower limb are provided with valves, and these are more numerous than in the veins of the upper limb. The deep veins have more valves than the subcutaneous set. SUPERFICIAL VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Immediately beneath the integument on the dorsum of the foot there exists a network of veins receiving the branches from the toes and forming a more or less regular arch, from which issue two principal trunks, named the internal or long, and the external or short saphenous veins. The internal or long saphenous vein extends from the ankle to within an inch and a half of Poupart’s ligament. Taking rise from the inner part of the plexus on the dorsum of the foot, it passes upwards in front of the inner ankle, and then behind the inner border of the tibia,VEINS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 520 accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. It inclines a /ittle backwards as it passes the inner condyle of the femur, and ascending along the inner and fore part of the thigh, following the course of the sartorius muscle, it passes through the saphenous Fig. 300. opening in the fascia lata to terminate in the , femoral vein. Fig. 300.—The internal saphenous vein. 1, saphenous opening in the fascia lata ; a, superficial epigastric vein ; b, external pudic ; c, superficial circumflex iliac ; d, external or short saphenous beginning on the dorsum of the foot. The internal saphenous vein communicates below the internal malleolus with the deep plantar veins, in the leg with the veins accom- panying the anterior and posterior tibial arteries, and in the thigh one or more branches pass between it and the femoral vein. It is joined at its commencement by superficial branches from the inner part of the sole ; in its course upwards by numerous cutaneous branches from the leg and thigh ; and close to its termination by the superficial circumflex iliac, siiperficial epigastric, and external pudic veins, corresponding severally to the arteries of the same name, as well as in many cases by a large anterior branch which ascends in the thigh over the position of the femoral artery. There is also very frequently a posterior branch of considerable size, collecting blood from the inner and back parts of the thigh, and opening into the saphenous vein a little below its aperture in the fascia lata. The external or short saphenous vein, smaller than the internal, proceeds from the outer end of the arch on the dorsum of the foot. It passes behind the outer ankle, and ascends in the leg along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, in company with the external saphenous nerve, and then over the interval between the heads of the gastrocnemius to the lower part of the popliteal space, where it perforates the deep fascia to end in the popli teal vein. Opposite the ankle and along the leg it communicates with the deep veins ; and it receives superficial branches from the outer part of the foot and heel, and the back of the leg, as well as one which descends on the posterior surface of the thigh. A communicating branch passes from this vessel near its termination upwards and forwards to the internal saphenous vein, and sometimes the trunk itself follows this course, having no connection, or only a very small one, with the popliteal vein.DEEP VEIN'S OF THE LOWER LIMB. 521 DEEP VEINS OP THE LOWER LIMB. The deep veins accompany the arteries and their branches, following exactly their distribution. Those below the knee, being for the most part disposed in pairs, and presenting the disposition described in the corresponding veins of the upper limb, are named the mice comites of the vessels with which they are associated. The venae comites of the arteries of the leg, namely, the anterior and posterior tibial veins (the latter having previously received the peroneal), unite near the lower border of the popliteus muscle, and form by their junction the popliteal vein. Fig. 301.—The external saphenous vein. Fig. 301. The vein, commencing on the dorsum and outer side of the foot, is seen to pass up behind the outer ankle and to dip beneath the fascia in the popliteal space. The popliteal vein, thus formed, receives smaller branches corresponding to the articular and mus- cular arteries, and the larger branch named the external saphenous vein. In its course upwards the vein is placed superficially to the popliteal artery, and it crosses that vessel gradually from the inner to the outer side. It passes with the artery through the opening in the adductor magnus, and becomes continuous with the femoral vein. Varieties.—The union of the veins which form the popliteal is often farther up than usual, and the lower part of the artery is then accompanied by two veins. This arrangement in some rare cases extends to the entire length of the artery. The femoral vein extends, like the artery which it accompanies, through the upper three-fourths of the thigh, and terminates at Poupart’s ligament in the external iliac vein. Placed behind and at first somewhat to the outer side of the artery, it gradually inclines inwards, and on reaching Poupart’s liga- ment lies on the inner side, on the same plane with the artery, from which it is separated only by a slight partition of the membranous sheath investing both vessels. In the lower part of its course, the vein receives the branches which accompany the offsets of the superficial femoral artery ; in the upper part, the deep femoral (profunda) vein opens into it, having first received the vente comites of the branches derived from the deep femoral artery; and near its termination it is joined by the internal saphenous vein. The femoral vein contains several valves, and one is always present at the entrance of the profunda vein. In many cases there is another valve between the latter point and Poupart’s ligament (Friedreich, Morph. Jahrb., vii., 323). Varieties.—The femoral vein occasionally pursues a course different from that of the artery along the thigh. Extending upwards from the popliteal space, the vein in such cases perforates the adductor magnus above the ordinary position,,522 VEINS OF THE PELVIS. and, joining with the deep femoral vein, first approaches the femoral artery at the groin. The same vein is sometimes double in a small part, or more rarely in almost its whole length ; and this condition, as well as the similar variety of the popliteal vein, may be explained as resulting from the enlargement of one of a pair of small veins which constantly accompany the main arterial trunk (Langer). The external iliac vein is the continuation of the femoral vein from Poupart’s ligament to the junction of the internal iliac vein, in the neighbourhood of the lumbo-sacral articulation. It is at first internal to the artery, but as it ascends it gradually inclines to the back of that vessel. It frequently contains one valve, very rarely two (Friedreich). Near its commencement at Poupart’s ligament, the external iliac vein receives the deep circumflex iliac and epigastric veins, corresponding to the arteries of the same name, and also a pubic vein, which ascends from the obturator vein in the thyroid foramen, and frequently constitutes the principal termination of the latter vessel. VEINS OP THE PELVIS. The internal iliac vein is formed by the union of branches which accompany most of the branches of the internal iliac artery. The umbilical vein of the foetus, however, which in the cord accompanies the corresponding arteries, diverges from these arteries within the body, and passes upwards to the liver. The internal iliac vein lies behind and somewhat to the inner side of the artery, and, after a short course up- wards to the margin of the pelvis, joins with the external iliac vein, to form the common iliac. No valves are found in the trunk of the internal iliac vein, but they exist in its branches. Tributaries.—The tributaries of the internal iliac vein correspond in general to the various branches of the internal iliac artery, with the excep- tion that the internal pudic vein does not receive the main supply of blood from the dorsal vein of the penis, and that the ilio-lumbar veins open into the common iliac trunks. The visceral veins are remarkable for their size and frequent anastomoses, and form a series of plexuses, named prostatic, vesical, hcemorrhoidal, vaginal, and uterine. The gluteal, sciatic and obturator veins agree closely with the arteries of the same name. The lateral sacral veins form, by their communications with one another and with the middle sacral veins, a plexus over the anterior sur- face of the sacrum. They receive branches from the sacral canal through the anterior sacral foramina, and open at two or three points into the internal iliac vein. The internal pudic vein commences as the vein of the corpus caver- nosum and receives in its course backwards branches corresponding to the offsets of the artery in the perineum. The dorsal vein of the penis commences by branches which issue from the glans penis and prepuce and form in the first, instance two veins, one on each side of the middle line. These speedily unite and give rise to a single vessel which runs backwards between the two dorsal arteries, in the median groove on the upper surface of the penis, receiving on its way branches from the corpus spongiosum, and others from the corpora caver- nosa and the skin of the organ. At the root of the penis the dorsal vein523 INTERNAL ILIAC VEIN. passes throng'll the aperture below the subpubic ligament (p. 335), forming a communication on each side with the commencement ot the pudic vein, and then divides into two branches which enter the right and left portions of the prostatic plexus. Each of these divisions is also con- Fig. 302.—Internal view of the male pelvis from the left side, to show the PRINCIPAL VEINS. (A. T.) £ The greater part of the pelvic wall of the left side, and the upper parts of the rectum and urinary bladder have been removed ; the left common iliac and the right internal iliac arteries, and the left external and internal iliac veins have been cut short: a, right psoas magnus muscle ; b, anterior superior iliac spine ; c, I’oupart’s ligament; cl, cavern- ous and spongy bodies of the penis divided near the root ; +, bulb of the spongy body, above which is the membranous part of the urethra ; e, left os pubis, sawn through close to the symphysis ; /, anus ; g, spine of the ischium with the small sacro-sciatic ligament; h, auricular surface of sacrum ; i, bladder ; Jc, rectum ; l, transverse process of the fourth lumbar vertebra; 1, inferior vena cava ; 1', abdominal aorta ; 2, 2, common iliac veins ; 2', right common iliac artery ; 3, 3, external iliac veins ; 3', external iliac artery; 4, 4, internal iliac veins ; 5, 5, middle sacral vein ; 6, 6, ilio-lumbar and lumbar veins; 7, right gluteal and upper lateral sacral veins ; 8, 8', obturator vein and artery of the right side; 9, veins ascending from the vesical plexus on the right side ; 9', lower part of the vesical plexus on the left side ; 10, placed on the small sacro-sciatic ligament, indicates on the right side the junction of the pudic and sciatic veins, on the left side the trunk of the pudic vein ; 10', perineal veins ; 11, placed on the prostate, the left division of the dorsal vein of the penis joining the prostatic plexus, which is continued into the lower part of the vesical plexus ; 12, placed on the lower part of the rectum, may indicate the position of the hoemorrhoidal plexus. Fig. 302.524 VEINS OF THE FOETAL SYSTEM. nected with the obturator vein of the same side by a considerable branch which ascends on the back of the pubis towards the thyroid foramen. The prostatic plexus is formed mainly by the breaking up of the divisions of the dorsal vein of the penis, but it receives also smaller branches from the gland and the neighbouring muscles. It surrounds the base of the prostate, most thickly on its anterior and lateral aspects, and communicates below with the tributaries of the pudic vein, while above it is continuous with the vesical plexus. In old persons these veins generally become much enlarged. In the female, a similar plexus surrounds the upper part of the urethra and receives the dorsal vein of the clitoris. The vesical plexus consists of vessels which ramify over the whole of the bladder external to its muscular coat, being particularly large and numerous towards the base of the organ, where they are closely connected with the prostatic and haemorrhoidal plexuses in the male, and with the vaginal plexus in the female. The hccmorrhoidal plexus consists of large and copiously anastomosing veins in the wall of the lower part of the rectum, immediately under- neath the mucous membrane. From it proceed superior, middle, and inferior hccmorrhoidal veins accompanying the arteries of the same name, and it communicates freely with the plexuses in front of it. The superior haemorrhoidal vein being a branch belonging to the portal system, the haemorrhoidal plexus forms a very free communication between the portal and general venous systems. The vaginal plexus, surrounding the vagina principally in its lower part, communicates freely with the haemorrhoidal and vesical plexuses. The uterine plexus pours its blood in greatest part into the ovarian veins, and is not considerable except during pregnancy. THE PORTAL SYSTEM OP VEINS. The portal vein differs from other veins of the body in being subdivided into branches at both its extremities. The branches of origin, by the union of which it may be said to be formed, are the veins of the chylopoietic viscera (stomach, intestine and pancreas) and of the spleen; the other branches, or those of distribution, undergoing ramification in the substance of the liver, convey to the capillaries of that organ the blooi collected in the main trunk. This blood, to- gether with that of the hepatic artery, after having served for the secretion of the bile and the nourishment of the liver, is withdrawn from that organ by the hepatic veins, and carried by them into the inferior vena cava. There are no valves in the portal vein or in any of its tributaries. The portal vein or vena portse is about three inches in length. Commencing behind the head of the pancreas by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, it passes upwards and a little to the right, behind the first part of the duodenum and then between the layers of the small omentum, to the transverse fissure of the liver. In the omentum it is placed close behind the hepatic artery and the bile duct, and is accompanied by filaments of the hepatic plexus of nerves, as well as by numerous lymphatics, all these being surrounded by the loose connective tissue constituting the capsule of Glisson.525 PORTAL VEIN. Near the right end of the transverse fissure, the vena portae becomes somewhat enlarged (sinus of the portal vein), and immediately divides into two branches. That of the right side enters directly the substance of the corresponding lobe of the liver, and spreads out into branches, each of which is accompanied by an offset of the hepatic artery and of the hepatic duct. The left branch, which is smaller but necessarily longer, passes across to gain the left end of the transverse fissure, where it Fig. 303.—Diagrammatic OUTLINE OP THE PORTAL VEIN AND ITS TRIBUTA- RIES. (A. T.) £ The liver is turned up- wards, so as to present a portion of its under sur- face : a, gall-bladder ; b, quadrate lobule ; c, left lobe ; 1, 1, portal vein ; 2, 2, superior mesenteric vein ; 2', its middle colic branch, forming loops with the right and left colic veins ; 3, 3, intesti- nal branches ; +, pan- ereatico-duodenal branch ; 4, right colic branch; 5, ileo-co’lic; 6, 6, coronary vein of stomach ; + + , right gastro-epiploic ; 7, splenic vein; 7', its branches from the spleen ; 7", its branches from the stomach ; 8, inferior me- senteric vein ; 9, left colic branch ; 9', its communi- cation with the middle colic ; 10, sigmoid ; 11, superior hemorrhoidal ; 12, the right, and 13, the left division of the portal vein in the transverse fis- sure of the liver ; 14, 14, obliterated cord of the umbilical vein (round liga- ment of the liver); 15, obliterated cord of the ductus venosus ; 16, part of inferior vena cava. Fig. 303. ramifies like the preceding branch. Opposite the fore part of the longi- tudinal fissure, the left branch of the portal vein is joined anteriorly by the so-called round ligament of the liver, the remains of the umbilical vein of the foetus ; and a little to the right of this, from its posterior aspect, another fibrous cord, the obliterated ductus venosus, passes backwards to join the inferior vena cava. Tributaries.—The principal branches which by their union con- tribute to form the portal vein are the superior and inferior mesenteric,VEINS OF THE PORTAL SYSTEM. 526 and the splenic veins. It is also joined by the pyloric and coronary veins from the stomach, and sometimes by the cystic vein from the gall-bladder; but the latter vessel more frequently enters its right branch. The superior mesenteric vein lies to the right side and somewhat in front of the artery of the same name. The distribution of its branches corresponds with that of the superior mesenteric artery, and it returns the blood from the several parts supplied by that vessel, viz., from the small intestine, and from the ascending and transverse parts of the colon. The trunk, formed by the union of its several branches, inclines up- wards and to the right side, passing in front of the third part of the duodenum and behind the pancreas, where it joins with the splenic vein to form the vena portte. The superior mesenteric vein is also joined, close to its termination, by the right gastro-epiploic vein from the great curvature of the stomach. The branches of the inferior mesenteric vein correspond with the ramifications of the artery of the same name. They commence at the lower part of the rectum in the htemorrhoidal plexus, and unite into a single vessel near the sigmoid flexure of the colon. From this point the vein proceeds upwards beneath the peritoneum, lying to the left of the aorta, and then passing behind the pancreas, it inclines to the right to terminate in the angle formed by the junction of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins, or in the adjacent part of either of these vessels. The splenic vein, a vessel of large size, commences by five or six branches which issue separately from the hilus of the spleen, and soon join to form a single vessel. It is directed from left to right beneath the pancreas, in company with the splenic artery, below which it is placed. On reaching the front of the inferior vena cava it joins the superior mesenteric vein, nearly at a right angle. It receives gastric branches (vasa brevia) from the left extremity of the stomach, the left gastro-epiploic vein, somq pancreatic branches, and frequently the inferior mesenteric vein. The pyloric vein is a small vessel which accompanies the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery on the small curvature of the stomach, and opens into the lower end of the portal vein. It is sometimes represented by two or three smaller branches. The coronary vein of the stomach is of considerable size, and runs with the artery of the same name along the small curvature of the stomach to the cardiac orifice, where it receives branches from the oesophagus, and then, turning to the right, passes across the front of the spine to join the portal vein immediately above the foregoing (W. J. Walsham, Journ. Anat., xiv., 399). The name of accessory portal veins has been given by Sappey to a number of small vessels which collect blood from the areolar tissue and peritoneal folds around the liver, and partly open into branches of the portal vein, partly pene- trate directly into the substance of the liver; through anastomoses formed by the radicles of these vessels the portal vein is put into direct communication with the phrenic and azygos veins. There are, moreover, constantly one or more small veins {parumbilical—Schiff) which descend from the left division of the portal vein, along the round ligament of the liver, towards the umbilicus, and form connections with the epigastric veins; and these vessels sometimes become much enlarged, setting up a more or less complete collateral circulation, in527 ABSORBENT VESSELS. certain diseased conditions in which the branches of the portal vein within the liver are obstructed. The umbilical vein itself has occasionally been found patent for a variable distance below the liver, and receiving similar anastomosing branches. (Sappey, Mem. de l’Acad. de Med., xxiii., 269 ; Luschka, “ Anatomie des Bauches,” 238 ; Champneys, Journ. Anat., vi., 417 ; Baumgarten, Centralbl. f. d. med. Wiss., xv., 721.) Other commimications between the portal and the general systemic veins are established by means of anastomoses formed by the veins of the pancreas, duo- denum, colon and rectum with the parietal veins of the abdomen ; and also through the oesophageal veins and the haemorrhoidal plexus. 2.—ABSORBENT VESSELS. The absorbent vessels are divisible physiologically into two sets : the lacteals, which convey the chyle from the alimentary canal to the thoracic duct ; and the lymphatics, which take up the lymph from all the other parts of the body, and return it into the venous system. Anatomically considered, however, the lacteals are not different from the lymphatics, and may be regarded as the absorbents of the mucous membrane of the intestine. The larger lacteals and lymphatics are provided with numerous valves, which give them, when distended, a somewhat moniliform appearance ; and both are connected in their course with lacteal or lymphatic glands. The general anatomy of the absorbents being elsewhere detailed (Vol. II., p. 201) only their course and position remain to be here described. They are gathered into a right and a left trunk, which open into the angles of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The large vessel of the left side traversing the thorax is named the thoracic duct: it receives not only the lympathics of its own side of the head and arm, and most of those of the trunk, but likewise the lymphatics of both lower limbs, and the whole of the lacteals. The short vessel of the right side is named the riyht lymphatic duct, and receives the lymphatics only of that side of the head and neck and upper part of the trunk. THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct is the common trunk which receives the absorbents from both the lower limbs, from the abdominal viscera (except part of the upper surface of the liver), and from the walls of the abdomen, from the left side of the thorax, left lung, left side of the heart, and left upper limb, and from the left side of the head and neck. It is from fif- teen to eighteen inches long in the adult, and extends usually from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. Its commencement, however, is often as low as the third lumbar vertebra ; and in some cases as high as the first lumbar, or even the last dorsal vertebra. Here there is usually a dilatation of the duct, of variable size, which is called rcceptaculum chyli (Pecquet), and is the common place of junction of the lymphatics from the lower limb with the trunks of the lacteal vessels. The lower part of the thoracic duct is generally wider than the rest, oeing about three lines in diameter ; it lies at its commencement to the right side of or behind the aorta, and then ascends between that vessel and the right crus of the diaphragm to the thorax, where it is placed at first upon the front of the dorsal vertebras, between the aorta and the528 THORACIC DUCT. large azygos vein. The duct runs upwards, gradually inclining to the left, and at the same time diminishing slightly in size, until it reaches Fig. 304. j 13 Fig. 304.—Sketch op the thoracic duct with THE PRINCIPAL SYSTEMIC VEINS. (A. T.) J The full description of this figure will he found at p. 491. 10, 10, thoracic duct; the lower number is close to the receptaculum chyli; 6, on the left subclavian vein, marks the termination of the duct in the angle of union of the subclavian and internal jugu- lar veins ; 5, on the right subclavian vein, indi- cates the similar termination of the right lymphatic duct. the fourth dorsal vertebra, where, passing behind the arch of the aorta, it becomes applied to the left side of the oesophagus lying between that tube and the left sub- clavian artery. Continuing its course into the neck to the level of the seventh cervical vertebra, it changes its direction and turns outwards, at the same time arching downwards and forwards so as to describe a curve over the apex of the pleura, and then terminates on the outer side of the internal jugular vein, in the angle formed by the union of that vein with the subclavian. The diminution in the size of the duct as it ascends is such that at the fifth dorsal vertebra it is often only two lines in diameter, but above this poiut it again enlarges. The duct is generally waving and tortuous in its course, and is often alternately contracted and enlarged at irregular intervals. The thoracic duct has numerous double valves at short intervals through- out its whole course, the constrictions of their attachments giving a nodulated appearance to the vessel. They are more numerous in the upper part of the duct. At the termination of the duct in the veins there is a valve of two segments, so placed as to allow the contents of the duct freely to pass into the veins, but effectually preventing the reflux of either chyle or blood into the duct. 14*= *14' Varieties.—The thoracic duct is not always a single trunk throughout its whole extent; it is frequently divided for some distance into two vessels which afterwards unite, especially in the lower part of its course (normal accord- ing to Teichmann); sometimes it separates into three divisions, or even presents a plexiform arrangement, for a short distance.LYMPHATICS OP THE LOWER LIME. 529 In very rare cases the duct is double throughout, the two canals opening into the right and left innominate veins (W. Krause); or it is represented by two vessels which are placed one on each side of the aorta, and unite at the root of the neck into a single trunk (Kuhn, W. Turner). Cruikshank, in one case, found the duct “ triple or nearly so.” In the neck, the thoracic duct often divides into two or three branches, which in some instances terminate separately in the great veins, but in other cases unite first into a common trunk ; less frequently one of the branches passes across to the veins of the right side of the neck. In the lower animals the termination of the thoracic duct in the veins of the right side as well as of the left is not uncommon. As a rare occurrence the trunk has been found passing upwards through the posterior mediastinum on the left side of the aorta (Henle, G. D. T.). Several cases are recorded in which, the viscera not being transposed, the thoracic duct terminated in the veins of the right side, with a right aortic arch (Allen Thomson), with a root-origin of the right subclavian artery (Fleischmann, Todd. J. M. Brown), or with a normal arrangement of the great arteries (Morrison Watson). In two instances the thoracic duct has been observed entering the large azygos vein (Wutzer, Arnold). (See Vol. II., p. 207.) RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCT. The right lymphatic duct is a short vessel, about a line or a little more in diameter, and from a quarter to half an inch in length, which receives the lymph from the absorbents of the right upper limb, the right side of the head and neck, the right side of the chest, the right lung and the right half of the heart, and from part of the upper surface of the liver. It enters obliquely into the receding angle formed by the union of the right subclavian and internal jugular veins, where its orifice is guarded by a double valve. The vessels which usually unite to form this trunk, however, frequently terminate independently in the large veins. LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. The lymphatics of the lower limb are arranged in a superficial and a deep series. Those of the superficial series, together with the super- ficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk, converge to the super- ficial inguinal glands, with the exception of a few which dip into the popliteal space. Those of the deep series enter the deep inguinal glands. The popliteal lymphatic glands, usually very small, and four or five in number, surround the popliteal vessels, and are imbedded in a quantity of loose fat. They receive from below the deep lymphatics of the leg, and a few superficial ones which accompany the short saphenous vein ; their efferent vessels ascend with the femoral vein to the groin. The superficial inguinal glands vary much in number, amounting’ on an average to eight or ten : they are divisible into a superior or oblique and an inferior or vertical set. The oblique glands lie in the line of Poupart’s ligament and receive lymphatics from the integument of the trunk, gluteal region, perineum, and genital organs ; the vertical glands surround the upper end of the long saphenous vein, and extend two or three inches downwards along the course of that vessel; they re- ceive the superficial lymphatics of the limb. The efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands perforate the fascia, a large number passing through the saphenous opening, and some enter the deep inguinal glands, while others are continued upwards with the deep vessels into the abdomen, and join the lymphatic glands which lie along the external iliac artery. VOL. I. M M530 LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 305. Fig. 305.—The superficial lymphatio VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE LOWER LIMB, FROM THE FRONT AND INNER SIDE (founded on Mascagni and others). (A.T.) £ 1, 1, upper inguinal glands receiving the lower abdominal, the inguinal, penile, and scrotal lymphatic vessels ; 2, 2, femoral or lower inguinal glands, receiving the anterior, internal, and external femoral lymphatic vessels ; 2', the internal lymphatic vessels ; 3, 3, large plexus of lymphatic vessels in the course of the internal saphenous vein ; 4, the same in the leg ; 5, posterior lymphatics of the calf of the leg ; 6, lymphatic vessels of the dorsum of the foot ; 7, those of the heel and inner ankle. The deep-seated inguinal glands, less numerous than the superficial, surround the femoral artery and vein, and one is con- stantly placed in the crural ring. They receive the deep lymphatics of the limb and some of the efferent vessels of the superficial inguinal glands. The efferent vessels of the deep glands proceed upwards with the blood-vessels, the greater number passing through the crural ring, and terminate in the external iliac lym- phatic glands. The superficial lymphatics of the lower limb arise in two sets, one from the inner part of the dor- sum and sole of the foot, the other trom the outer. The inner vessels, the more numerous, follow a similar course to that of the internal saphe- nous vein : passing partly in front of and partly behind the inner ankle, they ascend along the inner side of the knee and front of the thigh, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands. The outer vessels, ascend- ing from the outer side of the foot, pass in great part obliquely across the popliteal space to join the inner set above the knee; in part they reach the inner set by crossing in front of the tibia; and a small number of them, accompanying the external saphenous vein, dip down between the heads of the gastro- cnemius muscle, and end in the popli- teal glands. From the middle lineLYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 531 of the back of the thigh lymphatics pass round on both sides to reach the inguinal glands. (Mascagni, “ Vasorum Lymph. Historia,” 1787.) The deep-seated lymphatics of the lower Limb are associated in their whole course with the deep blood-vessels. In the leg they consist of three divisions, namely, anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal. Neither these nor the superficial absorbents pass through any lymphatic gland in the leg, unless it be those lymphatics which accompany the anterior tibial artery, near which a small gland is sometimes found on the front of the interosseous membrane above the middle of the leg. The several sets of deep lymphatics in the leg enter the lymphatic glands situated in the popliteal space. The efferent vessels from those glands are joined by other lymphatics in contact with the branches of the femoral artery, and enter the deep inguinal glands. Other deep lymphatics derived from the muscles of the gluteal region, and many proceeding from the adductor muscles of the thigh, enter the cavity of the pelvis in company with the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator arteries, and open into a series of glands placed along the internal iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the buttock are sometimes interrupted by two or three small glands, situated in the neighbourhood of the great sacro- sciatic foramen. The superficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk con- verge to the superficial inguinal glands, the direction of some of them being indicated by the superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric, and the external pudic arteries. Externally they converge to the groin from the gluteal region and from the lower part of the back, those from the latter part crossing others which pass upwards to the axillary glands. Anteriorly they descend from the greater part of the surface of the abdomen, crossing and mingling above the umbilicus with vessels which ascend towards the axillary glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis usually form three vessels, two being placed at the sides and the other on the dorsum of the organ. Commencing in the prepuce, and beneath the skin of the glaus and the mucous lining of the urethra, they pass backwards, unite on the upper surface of the penis, and, again subdividing, send branches on each side to the oblique inguinal glands. The deep-seated lymphatics of the penis pass with the pudic vessels under the pubic arch, and end in the glands on the internal iliac artery. The lymphatics of the scrotum pass to the superficial inguinal glands along the course of the external pudic arteries. The lymphatics of the external generative organs in the female present a disposition similar to that existing in the male. LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. The external iliac lymphatic glands, from six to ten or more in number, clustering round the external iliac artery and vein, receive the efferent vessels from the inguinal glands. The internal iliac lymphatic glands, a numerous series placed along the internal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands, placed in the hollow of the sacrum, receive the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera and parietes. The lymphatics of the bladd.er, few in number and confined to the neighbourhood of the base of the organ (Curnow), enter the glands M M 2532 LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. placed near the internal iliac artery ; with these are associated the lymphatics of the prostate gdand and vesiculre seminalcs. The lymphatics of the uterus in the unimpregnated state of the organ, are small, but during the period of gestation they are greatly enlarged. Issuing from the entire substance of the uterus, the greater number descend, together with those of the vagina, and pass backwards to enter the glands upon the internal iliac artery, thus following the course of the principal uterine blood-vessels. Others, proceeding from the upper end of the uterus, run outwards in the folds of peritoneum which constitute the broad ligaments, and, joining the lymphatics derived from the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, ascend with the ovarian vessels to the glands placed on the aorta and vena cava. The lymphatics of the rectum are frequently of considerable size ; immediately after leaving the intestine, some of them pass through small glands which lie contiguous to it, and finally, they enter the lymphatic glands situated in the hollow of the sacrum. At the anus, their capillary network is continuous with that of the cutaneous lymphatics. The lumbar lymphatic glands are very numerous and are disposed in three groups, a mesial and two lateral. The glands of the mesial group are of large size, and surround the aorta and vena cava ; they receive the efferent vessels of the external and internal iliac, and of the sacral glands, the lymphatics from the kidneys, suprarenal bodies and testicles (or ovaries with a part of the uterus), some of the efferent vessels of the lateral lumbar glands, aiid the lymphatics of the vertebral portion of the diaphragm. The glands of the lateral group are much smaller ; they lie behind the psoas muscle, in the intervals between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and receive the deep lymphatics of the hinder part of the abdominal wall. The greater number of the efferent vessels of the lumbar glands are generally united on each side into a short stem, the lumbar lymphatic trunk, which, with several smaller vessels, opens into the commencement of the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the kidney consist of a deep and a superficial set. Those placed upon the surface of the organ are comparatively small ; they unite at the hilus of the kidney with the lymphatics from the interior of the gland, and then pass inwards to the mesial lumbar glands. The lymphatics of the suprarenal capsules unite with those of the kidney. The lymphatic vessels of the ureter are numerous; they communicate with those of the kidney and bladder, and for the most part terminate by union with the former. The lymphatics of the testicle commence in the substance of the gland, and upon the surface of the tunica vaginalis. Collected into several large trunks, they ascend with the other constituents of the spermatic cord, pass through the inguinal canal, and accompany the spermatic vessels in the abdomen to enter some of the lumbar lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the abdominal wall in part pass along the circumflex iliac and epigastric arteries, to the external iliac glands ; others accompany the ilio-lumbar and lumbar arteries, and, after being joined by lymphatics from the muscles of the back and the spinal canal, enter the lateral lumbar glands. The lymphatics from the upper part of the anterior wall ascend with the internal mammary vessels and enter the sternal glands in the thorax. The mesenteric glands vaiy in number from a hundred and thirtyLYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. 533 Fig. 306. Fig. 306.—Principal lymphatic vessels and glands of tiie abdomen and pelvis (modified from Mascagni). (A. T.) J a, abdominal aorta, the upper part of it having been removed to show the formation of the thoracic duct ; a', inferior vena cava ; b, right, c, left crus of the diaphragm ; d, right kidney ; c, suprarenal body ; /, ureter; y, psoas muscle; h, iliacus ; k, lower part of the sacrum ; 1, commencement of the thoracic duct; 2, 2, lumbar lymphatic trunks ; 3, intes- tinal lymphatic trunk ; 4, suprarenal lymphatics ; 5, renal; 6, 6, spermatic ; 7, lumbar lymphatic vessels and glands; 7', 7', some of the lymphatics of the loins; 8, those surrounding the common iliac vessels, and proceeding from the lymphatics of the pelvis and lower limb; 8', some lymphatics of the abdominal wall ; 8, to 9, external iliac glands; 10, 10, lateral sacral glands ; above k, lymphatics of the rectum joining the mesial sacral glands ; 11, internal iliac glands; 12, lymphatics of the dorsum of the penis passing to the glands of the groin ; 13, deep inguinal glands,534 LYMPHATICS OF THE PELVIS AND ABDOMEN. to a hundred and fifty or more ; and in the healthy state they are seldom larger than an almond. The largest are placed around the trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, but the greater number lie within the loops formed by the blood-vessels, between the layers of the mesentery, becom- ing smaller and increasing in number as they are nearer to the intestine. They are most numerous in that part of the mesentery which corresponds to the jejunum ; and, except at the lower part of the ileum, they are seldom found closer to the intestine than an inch and a half or two inches. Small glands in limited numbers are also disseminated irregu- larly between the layers of the peritoneal folds connected with the large intestine. The lacteals take their origin in the wall of the intestines, where they form two chief plexuses, one beneath the mucous membrane, and the other between the layers of the muscular coat (see the anatomy of the intestinal canal, in Yoh II). They leave the intestine at its attached border, and ascend through the mesenteric glands, gradually diminish- ing in number and increasing in size, to near the root of the superior mesenteric artery, where they are joined by the efferent vessels of the coeliac glands, and terminate sometimes in a single intestinal lymphatic trunk, sometimes in three or four vessels, which open into the lower end of the thoracic duct. The lymphatics from the descending colon and the sigmoid flexure usually join some of the lumbar lymphatics, or turn upwards and open by a separate trunk into the thoracic duct. The cceliac glands (C. Krause), from sixteen to twenty in number, and of large size, surround the cceliac axis, and cover the aorta above the superior mesenteric artery. They receive the lymphatic vessels derived from the stomach, spleen, pancreas, and the greater part of the liver ; and their efferent vessels pass with the trunks of the lacteals to the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the stomach commence in the wall of that organ, and pass upwards and downwards over its surface to the small and great curvatures respectively, where they traverse a few small gastric glands lying along the attached border of the corresponding omenta. The lymphatics of the small curvature accompany the coronary vessels to the cardiac orifice, and then turn downwards behind the pancreas to enter the coeliac glands; those of the great curvature are directed towards the pylorus, along with the right gastro-epiploic artery, and, after being joined by the lymphatics from the upper part of the duo- denum, also open into the coeliac glands. A third series of lymphatic vessels proceed from the left end of the stomach, and, following the course of the gastric branches of the splenic artery, unite with the lymphatics of the spleen. The lymphatics of the spleen are placed, some immediately under its peritoneal covering, others in the substance of the organ. Both sets converge to the inner side of the spleen, come into contact with the blood-vessels, and, accompanying these, pass through a series of small glands, to terminate in the coeliac glands. Lymphatics emerge from the pancreas at different points, and join those derived from the spleen. The lymphatics of the liver are divided into superficial, which run beneath the peritoneum on the upper and lower surfaces of the organ, and deep, which accompany the blood-vessels within its substance. On the upper surface of the liver, the lymphatic vessels are disposed inLYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. 535 the following groups, which differ in their course and termination, viz :— 1. Those from the mesial portions of both lobes ascend in the falciform ligament, and pass through the diaphragm behind the ensiform process to enter the glands of the anterior mediastinum. 2. The lateral lym- phatics of each lobe are directed backwards to the corresponding lateral ligament, and descend to the coeliac glands. 3. The lymphatics from the hinder part of this surface converge to the coronary ligament, perforate the diaphragm, and terminate in a small group of glands surrounding the upper end of the inferior vena cava. 4. At the fore part of the liver a few vessels turn downwards and join those of the inferior surface. The greater number of the lymphatics of the under, surface of the liver converge to the transverse fissure, and descend with the deep lymphatics issuing at that part in the small omentum, but some from the lateral part of each lobe run backwards and descend on the vertebral portion of the diaphragm, those of the left side joining the lymphatics from the small curvature of the stomach, to the cceliac glands. The deep lymphatics of the liver accompany the branches of both the portal and hepatic veins. The vessels running in the portal canals issue by the transverse fissure and, being joined by most of the lymphatics of the under surface of the organ, pass downwards in the small omentum, where they traverse some small hepatic glands, to end in the coeliao glands. The lymphatics accompanying the hepatic veins are larger and more numerous ; they form five or six trunks which pass through the diaphragm with the inferior vena cava, and enter the glands placed around that vessel, in union with the posterior lymphatics of the upper surface of the liver. The efferent vessels from these glands descend on the upper aspect of the vertebral portion of the diaphragm, and open into the lower end of the thoracic duct. (Sappey, “ Anatomie,” ii, 862.) LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. The lymphatic glands of the thorax form the following groups, viz :— 1. Along the course of the internal mammary blood-vessels there are placed from six to ten small sternal glands, which receive lymphatics from the anterior thoracic and abdominal walls, from a portion of the diaphragm, and from the inner part of the mamma. The efferent vessels of the lower glands run partly to the upper glands of the same group and partly to the anterior mediastinal glands ; those of the upper glands ascend to join the lymphatic trunks at the root of the neck. 2. Between the intercostal muscles and in the line of the heads of the ribs on each side of the spine is a set of small glands, named inter- costal, which receive the lymphatics from the thoracic parietes and the pleura ; their efferent vessels open mostly into the thoracic duct, but some of the upper ones on the right side generally ascend to the right lymphatic duct. 3. The anterior mediastinal glands are three or four in number, and lie behind the lower part of the body of the sternum, between that and the pericardium ; they receive, besides some of the efferent vessels of the lower sternal glands, lymphatics from the mesial part of the upper surface of the liver, and others from the fore part of the diaphragm. Their efferent ducts pass upwards with those of the sternal glands to the right and left lymphatic trunks.LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX. 536 4. The superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, eight to ten in number, are placed in the upper part of the interpleural space, in con- nection with the arch of the aorta and the innominate veins ; they re- ceive the lymphatics of the heart, of the greater part of the pericardium, and of the thymus gland. Their efferent ducts form two or three vessels on each side, which ascend along the trachea to the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts respectively. 5. The bronchial glands are numerous, and are continuous above with the foregoing group ; the largest occupy the interval between the Fig. 307. Fig. 307.—The lym- phatics OF THE HEAD AND NECK AND OFTHEUP- PER PART OF THE TRUNK (from Mascagni). | The chest and pericar- dium have been opened on the left side, and the left mamma detached and thrown outwards over the left arm, so as to expose a great part of its deep surface. The principal lymphatic vessels and glands are shown on the side of the head and face, and in the neck, axilla, and medias- tinum. P>etween the left internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery, the upper ascending part of the thoracic duct is seen marked 1, and above this, and descending to 2, the arch and last part of the duct. The termination of the upper lymphatics of the diaphragm in the me- diastinal glands, as well as the cardiac and the sternal glands, are also shown. bronchi at their divergence, and others of smaller size accompany the primary divisions of each of those tubes in the hilus of the lung. They receive the lymphatics of the lung ; and their efferent vessels, forming two or three considerable trunks, ascend on the trachea with those of the cardiac glands to join the great lymphatic ducts. In early infancy the colour of the bronchial glands is pale red; towards puberty they become greyish and studded with dark spots; at a more advanced age they are frequently very dark or almost black. 6. The posterior mediastinal glands, eight to twelve, lie along the descending thoracic aorta and oesophagus, receiving lymphatics from the latter and from the hinder parts of the pericardium and the diaphragm; their efferent vessels join mainly the thoracic duct, but some pass also to the bronchial glands. The deep lymphatics of the thoracic wall are divided into twoLYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 537 sets, anterior and posterior. The anterior lymphatics pass forwards in the intercostal spaces and enter the sternal glands. The posterior or intercostal lymphatics run backwards with the intercostal vessels, receive opposite the intervals between the transverse processes accessions from the muscles of the back and the spinal canal, and terminate in the inter- costal glands. The lymphatics of the heart follow the coronary arteries from the apex of the organ towards the base, where they communicate together, and those of each side are gathered into one trunk. The trunk from the right side ascends along the aorta and enters a gland in front of or immediately above the arch of that vessel; the left trunk runs along the pulmonary artery to its bifurcation, and terminates in some glands behind the arch of the aorta. The lymphatics of the lungs, like those of the viscera generally, form two sets, one being superficial, the other deep-seated. Those at the surface are numerous and form a network beneath the pleura. The deep lymphatics run with the pulmonary blood-vessels and the bronchial tubes. The vessels of both sets converge to the root of the lung and terminate in the bronchial glands. The lymphatics of the oesophagus form only a single plexus between the muscular and mucous coats. The trunks emerging from this plexus perforate the muscular wall and terminate in the glands of the posterior mediastinum. The lymphatics of the thymus gland are numerous and large. They enter the glands of the superior mediastinum, and, according to Astley Cooper, two large vessels proceed, one from each lateral lobe, to open by one or more orifices into the internal jugular veins. LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. In the upper limb, as in the lower, the lymphatics are arranged in a deep and a superficial set. These two sets of vessels, together with the superficial lymphatics of the greater part of the back and of the chest, converge to the axillary glands. The lymphatic glands found in the upper limb below the axilla are neither large nor numerous ; a few, however, are found in the course of the brachial artery, and occasionally even of the arteries of the forearm ; two or more small glands are sometimes found in connection with the superficial lymphatics at the bend of the elbow, and one or two, more constantly, near the commencement of the basilic vein, a little above and in front of the inner condyle of the humerus. The axillary glands are generally ten or twrelve in number ; they vary, however, considerably in their number as well as in their size, in different individuals : they are mostly placed along the axillary vessels, and receive the lymphatics which ascend from the limb ; but a few (pectoral (/lands) also lie farther forwards on the serratus magnus near the long thoracic artery, at the lower border of the pectoral muscles, and receive the lymphatics from the mamma and front of the chest; while others (subscapular glands) are situated at the back of the axilla, along the subscapular vessels, and are joined by the lymphatics from the back. One or two small glands (infraclavicidar) are also found immediately below the clavicle in the hollow between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles; they receive some lymphatics from the outer side of the armLYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER LIMB. o38 and the shoulder, and are con- nected above with the inferior cervical glands, below with the axillary glands. The efferent vessels of the axillary glands ascend with the subclavian vein, and form by their union in some cases a single trunk {axillary lympha- tic trunk), in others two or three large vessels, which ter- minate on the left side in the thoracic duct, on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Sometimes they open separately into the subclavian vein near its termination. The superficial lympha- tics of the upper limb are usually described as forming Fig. 308.—Superficial lymphatics of the breast, SHOULDER, AND UPPER LIMB, FROM BEFORE (after Mascagni). (A. T.) A Tlie lymphatics are represented as lying upon the deep fascia. a, placed on the clavicle, points to the external jugular vein; i, cephalic vein; c, basilic vein; cl, radial; e, median ; /, ulnar vein ; rj, great pectoral muscle, cut and turned outwards ; 1, superficial lymphatic vessels and glands above the clavicle ; 2, infraclavieular glauds ; 3, 3, pectoral glands; 4, 4, axillary glands ; 5, two small glands placed near the bend of the arm ; 6, radial lymphatic vessels ; 7, ulnar lymphatic vessels; 8, 8, palmar arch of lymphatics two divisions corresponding with the super- ficial veins on the outer and inner borders. On the front of the limb they arise from an arch formed in the palm of the hand by the union of two lymphatic vessels proceeding from each finger, becoming more numerous in the forearm, they are found thickly set over its surface, whence they pass upwards in the arm ; the inner vessels in a straight direction, following the course of the basilic vein, and those placed further outwards inclin- inggradually inwards over the biceps muscle to reach the axillary glands. On the back of the hand also, two lymphatics proceed from each finger; and from the copious network on the back of the forearm vessels pass over the radial margin, and in greater number round the ulnar side to join those in front. A few lymphatic vessels ascend with theLYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 539 cephalic vein to the glands in the infraclavicular fossa, and these are joined by others which pass forwards from the shoulder. The deep lymphatics of the upper limb correspond with the deep blood-vessels. In the forearm they consist, therefore, of three sets, associated respectively with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries and veins. In their progress upwards, they communicate near the wrist with the superficial lymphatics, and some of them enter the glands which lie by the side of the brachial artery near the bend of the elbow. They all terminate in the glands of the axilla. The superficial lymphatics of the chest include the vessels running under cover of, and collecting lymph from, the pectoral muscles, the cutaneous lymphatics of this region, and the greater number of the lymphatics of the mamma. They are directed outwards and traverse the pectoral glands on their way to join the principal axillary glands. Associated with these vessels are the superficial lymphatics of the upper part of the abdominal wall, which commence about the level of the umbilicus, where they decussate with others passing downwards to the superficial inguinal glands, and then ascend to the pectoral and axillary glands. The superficial lymphatics of the back converge to the axillary glands from its various regions ; from the neck over the surface of the trapezius muscle, from the posterior part of the deltoid, and from the whole dorsal and lumbar regions as low as the crest of the ilium ; the branches decussating inferiority with vessels leading to the inguinal glands, and likewise crossing the middle line so as to decussate with branches of the opposite side. (Mascagni, tab. xxii., xxiii., xxiv.) LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. The lymphatic glands of the head are comparatively few and small ; those of the neck are, on the contrary, large and numerous. The follow- ing groups of glands, with their associated vessels, are distinguished :— 1. One or two suboccipital glands are placed beneath the skin, over the upper end of the complexus muscle, and receive the lymphatics from the hindmost part of the scalp ; their efferent vessels join the super- ficial cervical glands. 2. The mastoid glands are two or three in number, and lie over the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; they receive lymphatics which descend from the scalp behind the ear, and their efferent vessels enter the superficial cervical glands. 3. The parotid lymphatic glands, three or four of small size, lie beneath the parotid fascia, and are frequently more or less embedded in the substance of the parotid gland; one, larger than the others, is situated immediately in front of the tragus of the ear. They receive the superficial lymphatics descending from the temporal region, and their efferent vessels pass to the submaxillary and superficial cervical glands. 4. The internal maxillary glands are placed deeply beneath the ramus of the lower jaw, one or two with the internal maxillary artery, others on the hinder part of the buccinator muscle and the side wall of the pharynx. Their afferent vessels are derived from the temporal, zygomatic, orbital and nasal fossae, as well as the palate and upper part of the pharynx; their efferent vessels enter the superior deep cervical glands.540 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 5. The submaxillary lymphatic glands, from eight to ten or more in number, lie beneath the base of the inferior maxilla, and receive the superficial lymphatics of the face, the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth, and of the submaxillary and sublingual salivary glands, as well as most of Fig. 309. Fig. 309.—Principal lymphatic vessels and glands of the head and neck on the right side (after Bourgery in part). (A. T.) ^ The inner half of the clavicle and part of the sternum have been removed so as to expose the arch of the aorta, and the innominate artery and veins ; the posterior belly of the omo-liyoid muscle is removed ; and the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the external jugular vein have been divided so as to expose the deeper parts. a, right innominate vein at the place where it is joined by the principal lymphatic trunk ; a', the left vein ; b, arch of the aorta; c, common carotid artery; d, thyroid body crossed by the anterior jugular vein ; e, cut surface of the sternum ; f, outer part of the clavicle ; 1, submaxillary lymphatic glands ; 1', lingual; 2, parotid ; 3, occipital and mastoid ; 4, superior-deep cervical; 5, 5, inferior deep cervical glands ; 6, 6, axillary glands ; 7, on the superior vena cava, some of the anterior mediastinal vessels ; 8, on the innominate artery, some of the superior mediastinal ; to these last are seen descending some of the lymphatics from the thyroid body and lower part of the neck. the vessels emerging from the parotid lymphatic glands. Their efferent vessels pass to both superficial and deep cervical glands. There are fre- quently also one or two small glands (suprahyoid—Sappey) placed in the centre of the neck between the anterior bellies of the two digastric muscles, and connected with the lymphatics descending from the lower lip. 6. The superficial cervical glands, from four to six, lie along the external jugular vein, between the platysma myoides and the deep fascia. They are joined by the lymphatics of the external ear, and of the541 LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. integument of the neck, by the vessels issuing from the suboccipital and mastoid glands, and by some of those from the parotid and submaxillary lymphatic glands. Their efferent ducts enter the inferior deep cervical glands. One or two small glands are sometimes found near the middle line of the front of the neck between the hyoid bone and the sternum, less frequently at the back of the neck over the trapezius muscle. 7. The deep cervical glands are very numerous (twenty to thirty), and are subdivided into superior and inferior. The superior extend from the bifurcation of the common carotid artery to the base of the skull, lying for the most part along the internal jugular vein. They receive the efferent vessels of the internal maxillary and some of the submaxillary glands, the lymphatics of the cranial cavity, the tongue, larynx, and lower part of the pharynx, some of those of the thyroid body and the deep muscles of the neck. Their efferent vessels descend to the following glands. The inferior deep cervical glands are grouped around the lower part of the internal jugular vein, and extend outwards into the supra- clavicular fossa, becoming continuous below with the glands of the superior mediastinum internally, and those of the axilla externally. They receive the efferent vessels of the other cervical glands, both superficial and deep, and the lymphatics from the lower part of the neck. Their efferent ducts unite to form a single vessel (jugular lymphatic trunk) which terminates in the thoracic (or right lymphatic) duct, or some- times separately in one of the large veins. The lymphatics of the scalp descend partly over the occiput and behind the ear to the suboccipital and mastoid glands, and partly in front of the ear to the parotid lymphatic glands. From the forehead other vessels pass downwards and join the lymphatics of the face. The superficial lymphatics of the face are directed for the most part obliquely downwards in the course of the facial vein, and enter the submaxillary glands, but those springing from the outer parts of the eye- lids and cheek pass backwards to the parotid glands. The deep lymphatics of the face, including those of the orbit, nasal cavity, roof of the mouth, and interior of the cheek, terminate in the internal maxillary glands. The lymphatics of the cranial cavity take their origin in net- works contained in the pia mater on the surface of the brain and in the choroid plexuses of the ventricles. At the base of the brain they are collected into larger vessels which descend along the internal carotid and vertebral arteries and the internal jugular vein to the deep cervical glands. The lymphatics springing from the choroid plexuses of the lateral and third ventricles run backwards and unite into a considerable trunk which accompanies the veins of Galen between the layers of the velum interpositum. The lymphatics of the tongue are mainly directed backwards in company with the ranine vein, and traverse two or three small Ungual glands, lying on the outer surface of the hyo-glossus muscle, on their way to join the superior deep cervical glands. From the fore part of the tongue, also, one or two vessels pass downwards together with the lymphatics of the floor of the mouth and, after perforating the mylo-hyoid muscle, enter the snbmaxillary glands.NEUROLOGY. •—*— The nervous system consists of central and peripheral parts. To the first belong those large masses of nervous substance forming the brain and spinal cord, or great cerebro-spinal centre ; and to the second belong the various nervous cords, cerebro-spinal and sympathetic, which are distributed in different parts of the body. Along with these the nervous system also includes the organs of the external senses and the ganglia. The description of the cerebro-spinal centre and of the organs of the senses will be given in the Second Volume. The present section includes the descriptive anatomy of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerves, and of the ganglia connected with them. THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. The nerves springing directly from the great cerebro-spinal centre constitute a series of symmetrical pairs, of which a certain number issue from the cranium through different apertures in its base, and are thence named cranial. The next following nerve passes out between the occipital bone and the atlas, and the remaining thirty nerves all issue below the corresponding segments of the vertebral column. The first is sometimes distinguished by the name of suboccipital, but to the whole series of thirty-one nerves the name of sjnnal will be here given. CRANIAL NERVES. The cranial nerves, besides being distinguished by numbers in the order of their passage through the dura mater lining the cranium, have likewise received other names, according to the place or mode of their distribution, or their functions. The number of the cranial nerves has been variously stated as nine or as twelve by Willis and Scemmerring respectively. Of the nine pairs of cranial nerves distinguished by Willis, or twelve as enumerated by Scemmerring, the first six and the last correspond, but the seventh of Willis is divided into two by Scemmerring, viz., the seventh and the eighth pairs, or the facial and the auditory nerves, while the eighth of Willis falls, in the more modern arrangement, into three distinct nerves, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, or the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, as in the following table :—543 CRANIAL NERVES. Willis. First pair of nerves Second ,, Third „ Fourth Fifth Sixth „ Seventh 5 portio dura . ” l portio mollis Eighth Ninth ( n. vagus ^ n. accessorius SCEMMEEEIXG. I OTHER NAMES. First pair of nerves . Olfactory nerves. Second ., . Optic. Third „ . j Common oculomotor. Fourth ,, . | Pathetic or trochlear. Fifth „ . j Trifacial or trigeminal. Sixth ,, . 1 Abducent ocular. Seventh „ , j Facial motor. Eighth „ . j Auditory. Ninth „ . j Glosso-pharyngeal. Tenth ,, . i Pneumo-gastric. Eleventh ,, . ! Spinal accessory. Twelfth ,, . Hypoglossal or lingi motor. The arrangement of Soemmerring is on the whole the preferable one, and is therefore followed throughout this work, in accordance with the more general custom among anatomical writers of the present day. Fig. 310.—View from BELOW OF THE CONNEC- TION OF THE PRINCIPAL CRANIAL NERVES WITn THE HRAIN. (A. T.) The full description cf this figure will he found at p. 283 of Vol. II. The following references apply to the roots of the nerves : I', right olfactory tract, divided near its middle ; II, left optic nerve, spring- ing from the commissure which is concealed by the pituitary body; II', right optic tract; the left tract is seen passing back into i and e, the internal and external corpora genicu- lata ; III, left oculomotor nerve ; IV, trochlear ; V, V, large roots of the tri- facial nerves ; + 4-, small roots, the + of the right side is placed on the Gas- serian ganglion ; 1, oph- thalmic, 2, superior max- illary, and 3, inferior max- illary nerves ; VI, left ab- ducent nerve; VII, facial; VIII, auditory; IX, glosso- pharyngeal ; X, pneumo- gastric ; XI, spinal ac- cessory ; XII, right hypo- glossal nerve ; at o, on the left side, the rootlets are seen cut short ; C I, sub- occipital or first cervical nerve. Fig. 310. Connection with the encephalon.—The place at which a cranial544 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve is attached to the surface of the brain is termed the superficial origin of the nerve. From this apparent origin, however, the nerve- roots can be traced for a variable depth within the substance of the encephalon to certain collections of nerve-cells or nuclei, the connection with which constitutes the deep origin of the nerve. The superficial origins of these nerves are quite obvious : the filaments of the first pair spring from the olfactory lobes of the cerebral hemispheres ; the second pair arise from the dorsal part of the mesencephalon; the third are attached to the crura cerebri or ventral part of the mesencephalon ; the fourth to the valve of Vieussens ; the fifth to the pons ; and the re- mainder to the medulla oblongata, with the exception of the greater part of the eleventh pair, which arise from the cervical portion of the spinal cord. The course of the fibres within the cerebro-spinal centre, and their connection with the nerve-nuclei are described in the Second Fig. 311. FE 311 —Lateral view of the connection of the cranial nerves with the brain. (A. T.) The full description of this figure will be found atp. 2S5, Vol. II. The following references apply to the roots of the nerves: I, right olfactory tract, cut near its middle ; II, the optic nerves immediately in front of the commissure ; the right optic tract is seen passing hack to the thalamus (Th), corpora geniculata (;', e), and corporaquadrigemina (<?)'; Ill, oculomotor nerve ; IV, trochlear nerve rising at v, from the valve of Vieussens ; V, trifacial nerve ; VI, abducent ocular ; VII, VIII, facial and auditory nerves ; between them the pars inter- media ; IX, glosso-pharyngeal; X, pneumo-gastric; XI, spinal accessory; XII, hypoglossal; G I, the separate anterior and posterior roots of the suboccipital or first cervical neiwe.543 EXIT OE CRANIAL NERVES. Volume (pp. 363-370), and will not be farther referred to in this place, where the descriptions of the several nerves will commence with their appearance on the surface of the brain. Mode of exit from the cranium.—Each of the cranial nerves in leaving the cranial cavity passes through a foramen or tubular prolonga- tion of the dura mater : some of these nerves or their main divisions are contained in distinct foramina of the cranium, others are grouped Eig. 312.—Internal view of the base of the skull, showing the places of exit OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. (A. T.) A The dura mater is left for the most part within the base of the skull; the tentorium is removed and the venous sinuses] are opened. On the left side a small portion of the roof of the orbit has been removed to show the relation of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus and in the sphenoidal fissure. The roots of the several cranial nerves have been divided a short distance internal to the foramina of the dura mater through which they respectively pass. I, olfactory bulb, lying over the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; II, optic nerves ; III, common oculomotor nerve ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, is placed on the left side opposite to the middle of the three divisions of the trifacial nerve, which, together with the ganglion and large root, have been exposed by opening up the dura mater; on the right side the large root only is seen ; VI, abducent ocular nerve ; VII, placed on the upper part of the petrous bone opposite the entrance of the facial and auditory nerves into the internal auditory meatus ; VIII, placed on the petrous bone outside the jugular foramen opposite the place of exit of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric and sp>inal accessory nerves ; IX, hypoglossal nerve. On the left side, in relation with the cavernous sinus, the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth nerves are seen keeping towards the outer side, while the sixth nerve is deeper and close to the internal carotid artery. The explanation of the remaining references in this figure will be found at p. 504. VOL. I. N N546 CRANIAL NERVES The Roman numerals from I to XII indicate the roots of the several cranial nerves as they lie in or near their foramina of exit ; V, is upon the large root of the fifth with the Gasserian ganglion in front; C I, the suboccipital or first cervical nerve ; C VIII, the eighth. The branches of the nerves are marked as follows, viz. :—1, supraorbital branch of the fifth ; 2, laclir vmal passing into the gland ; 3, nasal passing towards the anterior internal orbital canal, and giving the long root to the ciliary ganglion, 4'; 3', termination of the nasal nerve ; 4, lower branch of the third nerve ; 5, superior maxillary division of the fifth passing into the infraorbital canal; 5', the same issuing at the infraorbital foramen and being distributed as inferior palpebral, lateral nasal, and superior labial nerves, 5" ; b, ganglion of Meckel and Vidian nerve passing back from it ; 6', palatine and other nerves descending frofn it; G", large superficial petrosal nerve ; 7, posterior dental nerves ; t , placed in the antrum, which has been opened, points to the anterior dental nerve ; 8, inferior maxillary division of the fifth immediately below the foramen ovale ; 8', some of the muscular branches coming from it ; 8-f, the auriculo-temporal branch cut short, and above it the small superficial petrosal nerve connected with the facial; 9, buccal and ex- ternal pterygoid ; 10, lingual or gustatory nerve ; 10', its distribution to the side and front of the tongue and to the sublingual gland ; 10", submaxillary ganglion ; below 10, the chorda tympani passing forwards from the facial above 12, to joiii the lingual nerve ; 11, Fig. 313.—A. Semibiagrammatic view of a deep dissection of the cranial nerves on THE LEFT side of the head (from various authors and from nature). B. Explan- atory OUTLINE OF THE SAME. (A.T.) h Fig. 313, A.547 VIEW OF CRANIAL NERVES. inferior dental nerve ; 11', tlie same nerve and part of its dental distribution exposed by- removal of the jaw ; 11", its termination as the mental nerve ; 11'", its mylo-hyoid branch ; 12, twigs of the facial nerve immediately after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. Fig. 013, B. to the posterior belly of the digastric and to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; 12', temporo-facial division of the facial ; 12", cervieo-facial division ; 13, trunk of the glosso-pharyngeal passing round the stylo-pharyngeus muscle after giving pharyngeal and muscular branches; 13', its distribution on the side and back part of the tongue ; 14, spinal accessory nerve ; 14', the same after having passed through the sterno-mastoid muscle uniting with branches from the cervical nerves ; 15, hypoglossal nerve; 15', its twig to the thyro-hyoid muscle ; 15", its distribution to the muscles of the tongue; 16, its descending branch giving a direct offset to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and receiving the communi- cating branches 16 +, from the cervical nerves ; 17, pneumo-gastric nerve ; 17', its superior laryngeal branch ; 17", external laryngeal twig ; 18, superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic nerve, uniting with the upper cervical nerves, and giving at 18' the superficial cardiac nerve ; 19, the trunk of the sympathetic ; 19', the middle cervical ganglion, uniting with some of the cervical nerves, and giving 19", the large or middle cardiac nerve ; 20, continuation of the sympathetic nerve down the neck ; 21, great occipitaL nerve ; 22, third occipital. sn2548 CRANIAL NERVES. together in one foramen. The numerous small olfactory nerves descend into the nose through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; the optic nerve pierces the root of the small wing of the sphenoid bone ; the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic division of the fifth, pass through the sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary and inferior maxillary divisions of the fifth pass respectively through the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the facial and auditory nerves pierce the petrous bone ; the glosso- pharyngeal, pneumo-gastric, and spinal accessory nerves descend through the middle compartment of the jugular foramen between the petrous and occipital bones ; and the hypoglossal nerve passes through the anterior condylar foramen of the occipital bone. General distribution.—The greater number of the cranial nerves are entirely confined in their distribution within the limits of the head, as in the case of the first six pairs, the auditory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Of these, the olfactory, optic, and auditory are restricted to their respective organs of sense ; while the third, fourth, and sixth are exclusively motor nerves in connection with the muscles of the eyeball and the elevator of the upper eyelid. In the fifth or trifacial nerve all the fibres derived from the large root, and connected with the Gasserian, ganglion, are entirely sensory in their function, and constitute the whole of the first and second and the greater part of the third division of the nerve ; but the last of these divisions has associated with it the fibres of the small or motor root, so as to become in some degree a compound nerve. As a nerve of sensation the trifacial occupies in its distribution the greater part of the head superficially and deeply, excepting the interior of the cranium and that part of the scalp which is situated behind a perpendicular line passing through the external auditory meatus. The muscular distribution of the inferior division of the fifth nerve is chiefly to the muscles of mastication. The glosso-pharyngeal is also a mixed nerve, and is distributed to the tongue, pharynx, and part of the ear-passages. Of the remaining nerves, the facial and hypoglossal, both exclusively motor in function, are almost entirely cephalic in their distribution ; the facial nerve giving fibres to all the superficial and a few of the deeper muscles of the head and face ; and the twelfth or hypoglossal supplying the muscles of the tongue. Of the facial, however, one branch passes downwards in the neck to the platysma myoides; and of the twelfth, the descending branch supplies in part the muscles of the neck which depress the hyoid bone and larynx. Lastly, the tenth or pneumo-gastric and the eleventh or spinal acces- sory nerves differ from the foregoing in having only a very limited distribution in the head, and in furnishing nerves in much greater proportion to organs situated in the neck and trunk. The first of these, after giving a small branch to the external ear, and supplying nerves to the pharynx and larynx, the trachea, gullet, lungs and heart, extends into the abdominal cavity as the principal nerve of the stomach. The other, the spinal accessory, which is classed with the cranial nerves in consequence of its passing out through one of the foramina of the skull, is entirely a motor nerve ; it is partially united with the pneumo-gastric near its origin, and thus furnishes some of the motor fibres of that nerve, but it is mainly distributed in the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles.OLFACTORY NERVES. 54D On pages 54G and 547, fig. 313 is introduced in illustration of the general view of the distribution above given. In this figure the cranium and orbit have been opened up to the depth of the several foramina through which the nerves pass. The great part of the lower jaw has also been removed on the left side, and the tongue, pharynx, and larynx are partially in view. The occipital bone has been divided by an incision passing down from the occipital protuberance and through the condyle to the left of the foramen magnum. The cervical vertebrae have been divided to the left of the middle, and the sheath of the spinal cord opened so as to expose the roots of the cervical nerves. I.—OLFACTORY NERVES. The olfactory nerves are slender filaments, about twenty in number, which spring from the under surface of the olfactory bulb, and descend to the nose through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each being invested by tubular prolongations of the membranes of the brain. They form an inner group, which are lodged for some Fig. 314. Fig. 314.—Distribution op the olfactory nerves on the septum of the nose (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Levcille). -| The septum is exposed and the anterior palatine canal opened on the right side. I, points to the olfactory bulb, and the remaining Roman numbers to the several cranial nerves ; 1, the olfactory nerves as they pass through the cribriform plate ; 2, internal twig of the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; 3, naso-palatine nerve. (See fig. 321, p. 563, for a view of the distribution of the olfactory nerves on the outer wall of the nasal fossa.) distance in groves on the surface of the vertical plate of the ethmoid, and then break up into tufts of branches before being distributed to the mucous membrane over that bone, and an outer group which ramify over the mesial surface of the lateral mass of the ethmoid, including the upper and middle turbinate hones. None of the branches reach the lower turbinate hone. The olfactory nerves are composed exclusively of non- medullated fibres, and their branches communicate freely with each other as they descend, thus giving rise to a narrow meshed plexus beneath the mucous membrane, especially on the outer wall of the fossa. (See also the anatomy of the nose in Yol. II.) Tlie olfactory lobe of the cerebral hemisphere is sometimes described as the olfactory nerve (see Yol. II., pp. 331 and 334).CRANIAL NERVES. 550 II.—OPTIC NERVE. The second pair or optic nerves of the two sides meet each other at the optic commissure where they partially decussate. From this point they may he traced backwards round the crura cerebri, under the name of the optic tracts. The optic tract arises from the posterior part of the optic thalamus, the corpora geniculata, and the superior corpus quadrigeminum. As it leaves the under part of the thalamus it makes a sudden bend forwards, and then runs, in the form of a flattened band, obliquely inwards across the upper part of the anterior surface of the cerebral peduncle, to which it is closely attached; after this, becoming more nearly cylindrical, it adheres to the tuber cineremn, from which, and from the lamina cinerea, it is said to receive an accession of fibres, and thus reaches the optic commissure. The optic commissure or chiasmci is of an oblong form, the longer dia- meter (nearly half an inch) being directed transversely. It rests upon the olivary eminence of the sphenoid bone, and the internal carotid artery, ascending to the brain, is close to it on each side. The greater number of the fibres of the two nerves decussate in the commissure, but some are continued from the tract to the nerve of the same side (see Vol. II., p. 363). The optic nerve proper runs from the commissure forwards and out- wards through the optic foramen, having the ophthalmic artery to its lower and outer side. As it enters the foramen it receives a strong- sheath from the dura mater, and a slender one from the arachnoid, both of which are prolonged as far as the eyeball. Appearing in the orbit between the origins of the recti muscles, it continues its oblique course, inclining at the same time somewhat downwards, to the eyeball, which it enters on its posterior aspect about one-tenth of an inch internal to its centre. Here the nerve perforates the sclerotic and choroid coats, and terminates by expanding in the retina (see the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II.). The intraorbital part of the nerve is about an inch in length; it is surrounded by the ciliary vessels and nerves, and is pierced from a quarter to half an inch behind its termination by the central artery of the retina, which, with a companion vein, runs in the axis of the nerve to the eyeball. Varieties.—In a few rare instances absence of the optic commissure lias been met with, each optic tract being- continued directly into the optic nerve, and passing to the eyeball, of the same side (see Henle, “ Nervenlelire,” 2nd ed., 303). III.—OCULOMOTOR NERVE. The third nerve, the common motor nerve of the eyeball (motor oculi), gives branches to all the muscles of the orbit, with the exception of the superior oblique and external rectus. It also supplies, through its con- nection with the lenticular ganglion, the sphincter muscle of the iris and the ciliary muscle of the eyeball. The nerve makes its appearance in the interpeduncular space at the base of the brain, where its fibres emerge in a number of bundles from the inner side of the crus cerebri, commencing close to the upper border of the pons, and extending upwards and outwards along the line of the oculomotor groove (Yol. II., p. 315). One of these bundles is frequentlyOCULOMOTOR NERVE. 551 separated from the rest, and issues more externally from the anterior surface of the crus. Speedily becoming firm and round, the nerve is directed forwards, as well as somewhat outwards, between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries to the outer side of the posterior elinoid process, a Fig. 315.—View prom above op the motor nerves Fig. 315. op the eyeball and its muscles (after Hirsch- feld and Leveillo, altered). (A. T.) The ophthalmic division of the fifth pair has been cut short ; the attachment of the muscles round the optic nerve has been opened up, and the three upper muscles turned towards the inner side, their anterior parts being removed ; a part of the optic nerve is cut away to show the inferior rectus ; and a part of the sclerotic coat and cornea is dissected off showing the iris, ciliary muscle, and choroid coat, with the ciliary nerves. a, upper part of the internal carotid artery emerg- ing from the cavernous sinus ; b, superior oblique muscle ; b', its anterior part passing through the pulley ; c, levator palpebrie superioris; d, superior rectus ; c, internal rectus ; /, external rectus ; /', its upper tendon turned down ; (J, inferior rectus ; h, insertion of the inferior oblique muscle. II, optic commissure ; II', part of the optic nerve entering the eyeball; III, common oculomotor ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, large root of the fifth ; V', the small or motor root ; VI, abducent nerve ; 1, upper division of the third nerve, giving twigs to the levator palpebne and superior rectus; 2, branches of the lower division supplying the internal and inferior recti muscles ; 3, the long branch of the same nerve proceeding forwards to the inferior oblique muscle, and close to the number 3, the short root of the ciliary ganglion : this ganglion is also shown, receiving from behind its long root, which has been cut short, and giving forward some of its ciliary nerves, which pierce the sclerotic coat; 3', marks the termination of some of these nerves in the ciliary muscle and iris after having passed between the sclerotic and choroid coats ; 4, the distribution of the trochlear nerve to the upper surface of the superior oblique muscle ; C, the abducent nerve passing into the external rectus. little anterior to which it penetrates the layer of dura mater forming the outer boundary of the cavernous sinus. Contained within this mem- brane, it continues its course forwards to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure, and there divides into two parts, upper and lower, which enter the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and are separated from each other by the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. As the third nerve lies in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, it is connected by slender filaments with the cavernous plexus of the sympa- thetic, and it is said to receive also a small branch from the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve. The upper, the smaller part, is directed inwards over the optic nerve to the superior rectus muscle of the eye and the elevator of the eyelid, to both of which muscles it furnishes branches. The lower and larger portion of the nerve divides into three branches; of these one reaches the inner rectus ; another the lower rectus ; andCRANIAL NERVES. the third, the longest of the three, runs onwards between the lower and the outer rectus, and terminates below the ball of the eye in the inferior oblique muscle. The last-mentioned branch is connected with the lower part of the lenticular ganglion by a short thick offset (slwrt root of the ganglion), and gives one or two filaments to the lower rectus muscle. The several branches of the third nerve enter the muscles to which they are distributed on the surface which in each is turned towards the eyeball, with the exception of that to the inferior oblique, which pene- trates the hinder border of its muscle. Varieties.—The third nerve has been seen in a few cases giving a branch to the external rectus (Cruveilhier, Fasebeck, C. Krause), and in one instance a branch of the third supplied the place of the sixth nerve which was wanting (Generali). The branch to the inferior oblique muscle was seen by Arnold to pass through the lower part of the lenticular ganglion, and by Ilenle to pierce the inferior rectus. Position of certain nerves at the cavernous sinus, and as they enter the orbit.—There are several nerves, besides the third, placed close together at the cavernous sinus, and entering the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure. To avoid repetition hereafter, the relative positions of these nerves may now be described. The nerves thus associated are the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth, and the sixth. At the cavernous sinus.—In the dura mater which bounds the cavernous sinus on the outer side, the third and fourth nerves and the ophthalmic division of the fifth are placed, as regards one another, in their numerical order both from above downwards and from within out- wards. The sixth nerve is placed separately from the others close to the carotid artery on the floor of the sinus, and internally to the ophthalmic nerve. Near the sphenoidal fissure, through which they enter the orbit, the relative position of the nerves is changed, the sixth nerve being here close to the rest, and their number is augmented by the division of the third and the ophthalmic nerves—the former into two, the latter into three parts. In the sphenoidal fissure.—The fourth and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the fifth, which are here higher than the rest, lie on the same level, the fourth being the nearest to the inner side, and enter the orbit above the muscles. The remaining nerves pass between the heads of the external rectus muscle, in the following order from above down- wards ; the upper division of the third, the nasal branch of the fifth, the lower division of the third, and, lowest of all, the sixth. IV.—TROCHLEAR NERVE. The fourth, trochlear, or pathetic nerve is the smallest of the cranial nerves, and has the longest course within the cranial cavity. It is distributed solely to the superior oblique muscle of the eye. Taking its superficial origin close below the corpora quadrigemina from the upper part of the valve of Yieussens, the fourth nerve is directed at first outwards across the superior peduncle of the cerebellum, and then turns forwards round the outer side of the crus cerebri (fig. 311), lying parallel to and between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. It enters an aperture in the dura mater immediatelyTROCHLEAR AND TRIFACIAL NERVES. 553 beneath the free margin of the tentorium, a little behind the posterior clinoid process, and rnns forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, resting against the upper margin of the ophthalmic nerve, and crossing the third obliquely on its outer side from below upwards, to the inner end of the sphenoidal fissure. Passing into the orbit above the external rectus muscle, it inclines inwards over the levator palpebrae and Fig. 316.—View from above OF THE UPPERMOST NERVES OF THE ORBIT, THE GAS- SERIAN ganglion, &c. (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Lcveilld). I, olfactory tract, passing for- wards into the bulb ; II, optic commissure ; III, oculomotor ; IV, trochlear nerve ; V, large root of the fifth nerve, a small portion of the lesser root is seen below it; VI, sixth nerve ; VII, facial ; VIII, auditory; IN, glosso - pharyngeal; X, pneumo - gastric ; XI, spinal accessory ; XII, hypoglossal ; 1, Gasserian ganglion ; 2, oph- thalmic nerve; 3, lachrymal nerve ; 4, frontal; 5, external, 6, internal bi'anch of the supra- orbital nerve; 7, supratrochlear nerve ; 8, nasal nerve ; 9, its infratrochlear branch; 10, nasal nerve, passing through the in- ternal orbital canal; 11, an- terior deep temporal proceeding from the buccal nerve; 12, middle deep temporal; 13, pos- terior deep temporal arising from the masseteric ; 14, origin of the auriculo-temporal; 15, great superficial petrosal nerve. Fig. 316. superior rectus, and finally enters the superior oblique muscle on its upper surface, and close to its outer border. While lodged in the outer wall of the sinus, the fourth nerve is con- nected with the sympathetic on the carotid artery, and according to Rosenthal it is also joined by a filament from the ophthalmic nerve. Varieties.—The fourth nerve has been observed in several cases sending a branch forwards to the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, or to join the supra- trochlear, the infratrochlear, or the nasal nerve. A communication with the frontal nerve is recorded by Berte. V.—TRIFACIAL KERVE. The fifth, trifacial, or trigeminal nerve is the largest of the cranial nerves, and resembles a spinal nerve, in the circumstance that it arises by separate sensory and motor roots, and also that the sensory fibres pass through a ganglion while the motor do not. Its sensory division, which is much the larger, imparts common sensibility to the face and the fore part of the head, as well as to the eye, the nose, the ear, and the mouth, includ-554 CRANIAL NERVES. ing the greater portion of the tongue ; it may possibly also confer the power of taste upon the fore part of the latter organ. The motor root supplies chiefly the muscles of mastication. The two roots of the nerve spring from the side of the pons Yarolii, where the transverse fibres of the latter are prolonged into the middle peduncle of the cerebellum, and much nearer its upper than its lower border. The small root issues above the large one, and the two are separated from one another by a small band of the cross fibres of the pons. From this origin, the two roots are directed forwards beneath the anterior extremity of the tentorium to the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and enter a recess in the dura mater over the summit of the petrous part of the temporal bone. Here the large root becomes expanded, and its funiculi divide and unite so as to form a plexiform network which is continued into the Gasserian ganglion. The small root inclines down- wards on the inner side of the large root, and then passes outwards beneath the ganglion, without its fibres being incorporated in any way with the latter, to join below the foramen ovale the lowest of the three trunks issuing from the ganglion. o o o Fig. 317. Fig. 317.—General plan OF THE BRANCHES OF the fifth pair (after a sketch by Charles Bell), i 1, small root of the fifth nerve ; 2, large root, passing forwards into the Gasserian ganglion ; 3, placed on the bone above the ophthalmic nerve, which is dividing into the frontal, lachrymal, and nasal branches, the latter connected with the oph- thalmic ganglion ; 4, placed on the bone close to the foramen rotundum, marks, the ffiperior maxillary division, which is con- nected below with the spheno-palatine ganglion, and passes forwards to the infraorbital foramen ; 5, placed on the bone over the foramen ovale, marks the inferior maxillary nerve, giving off the auri- culo-temporal and muscu- lar branches, and contin- ued by the inferior dental to the lower jaw, and by the lingual to the tongue ; a, submaxillary gland, the submaxillary ganglion placed above it in connection with the lingual nerve ; 6, chorda tympani; 7, facial nerve, issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The ganglion of the fifth nerve or Gasserian ganglion (ganglion semi- lunare) occupies a depression on the upper part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, near the apex, and is somewhat crescentic in form, the convexity being turned forwards. It is flattened, and striated on theOPHTHALMIC NERVE. 5 oo surface. On its inner side the ganglion is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve, and, according to some anato- mists, it furnishes from its back part filaments to the dura mater. From the fore part, or convex border of the Gasserian ganglion, proceed the three large divisions of the nerve. The highest (first or ophthalmic trunk) enters the orbit; the second, the superior maxillary nerve, is continued forwards to the face between the orbit and month ; and the third, the inferior maxillary nerve, is distributed chiefly to the external ear, the tongue, the lower teeth, the face below the mouth, and the muscles of mastication. The first two trunks proceed exclusively from the ganglion and are entirely sensory, while the third or inferior maxillary trunk, derived principally from the ganglion, has associated with it also the whole of the fibres of the motor root, and thus distributes both motor and sensory branches. I.—OPHTHALMIC NERVE. The ophthalmic nerve, or first division of the fifth, the smallest of the three offsets from the Gasserian ganglion, is flattened from side to side, and measures about an inch in length. It is directed forwards and up- wards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, in company with the third and fourth nerves, towards the sphenoidal fissure, where it ends in branches which pass through the orbit to the surface of the head and to the nasal fossa. In its course forwards, the ophthalmic nerve is joined by filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. Branches.—A small recurrent branch arises from the ophthalmic trunk near the Gasserian ganglion and, running backwards across the fourth nerve, to which it generally adheres closely for some distance, ramifies between the layers of the tentorium. Farther forwards the ophthalmic nerve gives off three slender offsets which join respectively the third, fourth, and sixth nerves as they enter the orbit (L. liosenthal, Wiener Sitzungsber., 1878). The terminal branches resulting from the division of the ophthalmic nerve close to the orbit are the nasal, which is usually the first to arise and springs from the inner and lower part of the trunk, the frontal and the lachrymal. These branches are transmitted separately through the sphenoidal fissure, and are continued through the orbit (after supplying some filaments to the eyeball and the lachrymal gland) to their final dis- tribution in the nose, the eyelids and the integument of the forehead. Lachrymal nerve.—The lachrymal nerve (fig. 81G, 3) is external to the frontal at its origin, and is contained in a separate sheath of dura mater. In the orbit it passes along the outer part, above the external rectus muscle, to the outer and upper angle of the cavity. Near the lachrymal gland, the nerve has a connecting filament with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; and when in close apposition with the gland, it gives many filaments to that body and to the con- junctiva. Finally, the lachrymal nerve penetrates the palpebral ligament externally, and ends in the upper eyelid, the terminal ramifications being joined by twigs from the facial nerve. Varieties.—The lachrymal nerve is occasionally smaller than usual, being re- inforced by a twig from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary, and it has been seen replaced entirely by an offset of the latter nerve (Turner, Hyrtl.). On the other hand, the lachrymal nerve has been found sending an offset throughCRANIAL NERVES. 55(5 the malar bone in the place of the temporal branch of the superior maxillary nerve, which was absent (G. D. T.). The lachrymal branch sometimes appears to be derived in part from the fourth nerve, but in such cases the additional root is composed of fibres that have passed over from the ophthalmic to the fourth while these nerves are contained in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus (Cruveilhier). Frontal nerve.—The frontal nerve (fig. 31G, 4), the largest division of the ophthalmic, also enters the orbit above the muscles, and runs forwards between the elevator of the upper eyelid and tire periosteum. About the middle of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. (a) The supratrochlear nerve, much the smaller of the two branches, inclines inwards towards the pulley of the superior oblique muscle, close to which it sends a filament downwards to communicate in a loop with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve, and then leaves the orbit between the orbicularis palpebrarum muscle and the bone. In this position, the nerve gives twigs to the skin and conjunctiva of the upper eyelid, and finally it turns upwards, dividing into branches which perforate the orbicularis and frontalis muscles, and are distributed to the integument of the lower and mesial part of the forehead. (b) The supraorbital nerve is the continuation of the frontal nerve, and leaves the orbit by the supraorbital notch or foramen. It divides into two branches, inner and outer, which ascend on the forehead beneath the frontalis muscle, and are distributed by numerous slender ramifica- tions to the skin of the fore and upper parts of the scalp. The outer branch is the larger and extends backwards nearly to the lambdoid suture ; the inner branch reaches but a little way over the parietal bone. Small branches also pass to the pericranium, and as the nerve emerges from the orbit twigs are sent downwards to the upper eyelid. The primary division of the supraorbital nerve often takes place before it issues from the orbit, and in that case only the larger branch passes through the supraorbital notch, the smaller one being placed more internally, and not uufrequently traversing a second slighter notch {frontal notch, Henle) in the orbital margin (fig. 31G, 5, G). The branches of the supraorbital nerve, and the same is the case with all the cutaneous offsets of the fifth, form communications with the adjacent ramifications of the facial nerve ; in this way sensory fibres derived from the fifth nerve may be conveyed to the surrounding muscles. Nasal nerve.—The nasal nerve (oculo-nasal) enters the orbit between the heads of the external rectus muscle, and between the two divisions of the third nerve. It then inclines inwards over the optic nerve, pass- ing beneath the superior rectus and superior oblique muscles, to the inner side of the orbit, and leaves that cavity by the anterior internal orbital canal. In this part of its course it furnishes a slender branch to the ophthalmic ganglion, one or two filaments (long ciliary) directly to the eyeball, and a considerable infratrochlear branch, which arises just before the nerve enters its canal on the inner side of the orbit. Arrived in the cranial cavity, the nerve is directed forwards in a groove at the outer edge of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone to a small canal between the fore part of the plate and the frontal bone (p. 47), through which it descends to the nasal fossa. Here it gives off internal or septal and external branches to the mucous membrane of the fore part of the nasal fossa, and is then continued downwards in the groove557 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. on the hack of the nasal hone, to terminate as the anterior or superficial branch in the integument of the lower part of the nose. (a) The branch to the ophthalmic ganglion, very slender, and from a quarter to half an inch in length, arises generally between the heads of the external rectus. It lies on the outer side of the optic nerve, and enters the upper and back part of the ganglion, constituting its long root. (h) The long ciliary nerves are situated on the inner side of the optic nerve; they join one or more of the short ciliary branches from the ophthalmic ganglion, and, after perforating the sclerotic coat of the eye, are distributed in the same manner as those nerves. (c) The infrairochlear nerve runs forwards along the inner side of the orbit, below the superior oblique muscle, and parallel to the supra- trochlear nerve, from which it receives, near the pulley of the oblique muscle, a filament of connection. The nerve is then continued below the pulley to the inner angle of the eye, and ends in filaments which supply the conjunctiva, the caruncle, and the lachrymal sac, as well as the integument of the eyelids and root of the nose (fig. 32(3, 22). (cl) The internal or segctal branch (fig. 314, 2), supplies the pituitary membrane over the fore part of the septum, extending dowards nearly as far as the opening of the nostril. (c) The external branch (fig. 321, 2), often represented by two or three filaments, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the fore, part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa, including the anterior ends of the middle and lower turbinate bones. ( f) The anterior or superficial branch (fig. 326, 2-1) issues between the nasal bone and the upper lateral cartilage of the nose, and runs down- wards under cover of the compressor naris muscle to the tip of the nose, supplying the skin of the lower part of the organ. Varieties.—The nasal nerve occasionally (frequently, Krause) gives filaments to the superior and internal recti muscles. A branch to the levator palpebrae superioris has also been met with (Fasebeck). Offsets from the nasal nerve, as it traverses the anterior internal orbital canal, to the frontal sinus and ethmoidal cells are described by Meckel and Langenbeck, and a spheno-ethmoidal (Luschka) or posterior ethmoidal (Krause) branch is said to pass through the posterior internal orbital canal to the mucous membrane of the sphenoidal sinus and posterior ethmoidal cells. Summary.—The first division of the fifth nerve is altogether sensory in function. It furnishes branches to the eyeball and the lachrymal gland ; to the mucous membrane of the nose and eyelids ; to the integu- ment of the nose, the upper eyelid, the forehead, and the upper part of the hairy scalp. It has communications with the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with numerous branches of the facial, and with the sympathetic. Ophthalmic Ganglion. There are four small ganglia connected with the divisions of the fifth nerve : the ophthalmic ganglion with the first, Meckel’s ganglion with the second, and the otic and submaxillary ganglia with the third. These ganglia, besides receiving branches from the sensory part of the fifth, are each connected with a motor nerve from the third, the fifth, or the facial, and with twigs from the sympathetic; and the nerves thus joining the ganglia are named their roots.558 CRANIAL NERVES. The ophthalmic, ciliary, or lenticular ganglion serves as a centre for the supply of nerves—motor, sensory, and sympathetic—to the eye- ball. It is a small reddish body, compressed laterally and somewhat four-sided, and measures about a line from before back. It is situated at the back of the orbit, between the outer rectus muscle and the optic nerve, and generally in contact with the ophthalmic artery ; it is joined behind by branches from the fifth, the third, and the sympathetic nerves ; while from its fore part proceed the short ciliary nerves to the eyeball. Fig. 318.—Nerves of the or- bit FROM THE OUTER SIDE (from Sappey, after Hirsclifeld and Leveill^). f The external rectus muscle lias been divided and turned down : 1, optic nerve ; 2, trunk of the third nerve ; 3, its upper division passing into the levator palpebrie and superior rectus ; 4, its long lower branch to the inferior oblique muscle ; 5, the sixth nerve -joined by twigs from the sympathetic ; 6, Gasserian gang- lion ; 7, ophthalmic nerve ; 8, its nasal branch; 9, ophthalmic gang- lion ; 10, its short, 11, its long, and 12, its sympathetic root; 13, short ciliary nerves ; 14, supraorbital nerve. Union of the ganglion with nerves : its roots.—The posterior border of the ganglion receives three nerves. One of these, the long or sensory root, a slender filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic trunk, joins the upper part of this border. Another branch, the short or motor root, much thicker and shorter than the preceding, and sometimes divided into two parts, is derived from the branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle, and is connected with the lower part of the ganglion. The middle or sympathetic root is a very small nerve which emanates from the cavernous plexus of the symjiathetic, and reaches the ganglion close to the long upper root: these two nerves are frequently conjoined before reaching the ganglion. The ganglion is sometimes very small, probably from the nerve cells being distributed along the nerves which are connected with it. Branches of the ganglion.—From the fore part of the ganglion arise six or eight short ciliary nerves, which undergo division as they pass forwards, so that they form from twelve to twenty fine filaments as they reach the eyeball. They are disposed in two bundles, springing from the upper and lower angles of the ganglion, and being placed, the one set above, the other below the optic nerve. The lower set is the more numerous, and is accompanied by the long ciliary nerves (from the nasal), with which one or more of these branches are joined. Having entered the eyeball by apertures in the back part of the sclerotic coat, the nerves are lodged in grooves on its inner surface, and are finally distributed to the ciliary muscle, the iris aud the cornea (see the anatomy of the eye in Yol. II.). Varieties.—Additional roots to the ophthalmic ganglion have been observed by many anatomists, derived from the upper division of the third nerve, fromSUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 559 the lachrymal nerve, from the sphenopalatine ganglion, or from the sixth nerve. (See Henle, “ Nervenlehre,” 1879, S. 406.) According to Reichart the ophthalmic ganglion does not receive its sympathetic fibres by a single root, but by several fine filaments, the majority of which accompany the third nerve. Although considered here, for convenience of description, in connection with the fifth nerve, it appears from its mode of development and its arrangement in many of the lower vertebrates, that the ophthalmic ganglion is morphologically associated more intimately with the third nerve, having in fact the significance •of a spinal ganglion on that nerve (M. Marshall, Schwalbe). II.—SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve, or second division of the fifth, is intermediate in size between the ophthalmic and the inferior maxillary trunks. It commences at the middle of the Gasserian ganglion, and, passing horizontally forwards, soon leaves the skull by the foramen rotnndum of the sphenoid bone. The nerve then crosses the spheno-maxillary fossa, and, taking the name of infraorbital, enters the infraorbital canal of the upper maxilla, by which it is conducted to the face. After emerging from the infraorbital foramen, it terminates beneath the elevator of the upper lip in branches, which spread out to the side of the nose, the eyelid, and the upper lip. Branches.—Xear its origin a fine recurrent branch passes to the dura mater and middle meningeal artery. In the spheno-maxillary fossa an orbital or temporo-malar branch ascends from the superior maxillary Fig. 319. Fig. 319.—Superior maxillary nerve and some of the orbital nerves (from Sappey, after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). § 1, Gasserian ganglion ; 2, lachrymal nerve ; 3, trunk of the superior maxillary nerve ; 4, its orbital branch ; 6, origin of its malar twig; 7, its temporal twig, joined by 5, the communicating branch from the lachrymal nerve ; 8, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 9, Vidian nerve; 10, its upper branch or great superficial petrosal nerve proceeding to join the facial nerve (11); 12, its lower branch or great deep petrosal nerve joining the sympa- thetic ; 13, 14, posterior dental nerves; 15, terminal branches of the infraorbital nerve in the face; 16, a branch of the facial uniting with some of the twigs of the infra- orbital.5G0 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve to the orbit, and two spheno-palatine branches descend to join Meckel’s ganglion; while the nerve is in contact with the upper maxilla, it furnishes the superior dental or alveolar branches ; and on the lace are the terminal branches already indicated. Orbital branch.—The orbital or temporo-malar branch, a small cutaneous nerve, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and immediately divides into two branches (temporal and malar), which pierce the malar bone, and are distributed to the temple and the prominent part of the cheek. (a) The temporal branch is directed upwards in a groove on the outer wall of the orbit, and leaves this cavity by the temporal canal in the malar bone (p. 53). While still in the orbit, it is joined by a com- municating filament (in some cases, by two filaments) from the lachrymal nerve. The nerve is then inclined upwards in the temporal fossa be- tween the bone and the temporal muscle, and perforating the aponeurosis over the muscle nearly an inch above the zygoma, ends in cutaneous filaments over the fore part of the temporal region. The cutaneous ramifications are united with the facial nerve, and sometimes with the auriculo-temporal branch of the third division of the fifth. (b) The malar branch lies at first in the loose fat in the lower angle of the orbit, and is continued to the face through the malar canal of the malar bone, where it is frequently divided into two filaments. It is distributed to the skin over the malar bone. In the prominent part of the cheek, this nerve communicates with the facial nerve. Varieties.—The temporo-malar nerve is subject to frequent deviations from the arrangement above described. Thus, either branch may be smaller than usual, or even absent, in which case the other division of the nerve may be distributed over a larger area, or the temporal branch may be reinforced or replaced by the lachrymal nerve, the malar branch by the infraorbital nerve. The temporal branch, instead of perforating the malar bone, frequently passes into the temporal fossa through the anterior end of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The superior dental or alveolar nerves are, as a rule, three in number, anterior, middle, and posterior, but the middle is sometimes conjoined with the anterior, while the posterior is frequently represented by two separate offsets. Tha posterior superior denial nerve arises from the superior maxillary trunk before it enters the infraorbital groove, and immediately divides into two branches (often separate at their origin), which descend with the posterior dental artery on the zygomatic surface of the upper jaw. They send small external filaments to the gum and the adjacent part of the mucous membrane of the cheek, and then enter the posterior dental canals to terminate in offsets to the molar teeth and the lining membrane of the antrum. Variety.—The posterior dental nerve has been seen in a few instances of large size, and replacing the buccal nerve, which was absent as a branch of the inferior maxillary, in the supply of the cheek. The middle superior dental nerve leaves the superior maxillary in the hinder part of the infraorbital canal, and is directed downwards and forwards in a special canal in the outer wall of the antrum to the bicuspid teeth. The anterior superior dental nerve is the largest of the three. ArisingSUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 561 near the infraorbital foramen, it descends in its canal in the front wall of the antrum, and divides into dental branches for the incisor and canine teeth, and a nasal branch, which supplies the pituitary membrane in the fore part of the inferior meatus and the adjoining part of the floor of the nasal fossa. Fig. 320. Fig. 320.—Deep view of the superior iiaxjllary nerve and the sphenopalatine ganglion, &c. (from Sappey, after Uirselifeld and Leveille). g 1, superior maxillary nerve ; 2, posterior superior dental; 3, middle superior dental; 4, anterior superior dental; 5, superior dental plexus; 6, spheno-palatine ganglion; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 9, its great deej) petrosal branch ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; 12, its ascending branch ; 13, facial nerve ; 14, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 15, its tympanic branch ; 16, twig joining the sympathetic ; 17, filament to the fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube ; 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, small superficial petrosal nerve. The three dental nerves communicate so as to form loops with one another while they are contained in their bony canals, and from these loops other branches spring, which join again and give rise to a plexus {superior dental plexus) from which the minute terminal filaments proceed to the teeth and gum. Facial branches.—The facial branches are divisible into palpebral, nasal, and labial sets. The inferior palpebral branches, generally an inner and an outer, ascend from the termination of the infraorbital nerve to supply the skin and conjunctiva of the lower eyelid in its whole breadth. The lateral nasal branches, two or three in number, are directed inwards between the fibres of the levator labii superioris akeque nasi muscle to the skin of the side of the nose. The suoerior labial branches, the largest of the terminal offsets of the superior maxillary nerve, and three or four in number, pass downwards between the elevator muscles of the upper lip and of the angle of the mouth. Ramifying as they descend, and giving off branches to supply the integument of the fore part of the cheek, they end in the skin and mucous membrane of the upper lip. Below the orbit, the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve are joined by considerable branches of the facial nerve, the union between the two being named the infraorbital plexus. VOL. i. o o£02 CRANIAL NERVES. Spheno-Falatine Ganglion. The sphenopalatine ganglion, also named Meckel’s or the nasal gang- lion, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno- palatine foramen. It receives the two spheno-palatine branches which descend together from the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the top of the fossa. It is of a reddish-grey colour, triangular in form, and convex on the outer surface. Its diameter is about the fifth of an inch. The grey or ganglionic substance does not involve all the fibres of the spheno-palatine branches of the upper maxillary nerve, hut is placed at the back part, at the point of junction of the Yidian nerve, so that many of the fibres of the spheno-palatine nerves proceeding to the nose and palate pass to their destination without being incorporated with the ganglionic mass. Branches proceed from the ganglion upwards to the orbit, downwards to the palate, inwards to the nose, and backwards through the Yidian and pterygo-palatine canals. Ascending branches.—These consist of three or more very small twigs, which reach the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and are distributed to the periosteum and, according to Luschka, to the mucous membrane of the posterior ethmoidal and sphenoidal sinuses. Bock and Valentin describe a branch, ascending from the ganglion to the sixth nerve ; Tiedemann, one to the lower angle of the ophthalmic ganglion. The filaments described by Hirzel as ascending to the optic nerve most probably join the ciliary twigs which surround that nerve. Descending branches.—These are three in number,—the large, the small, and the external palatine nerves, and are in great part continued directly from the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary. (a) The large or anterior palatine nerve descends in the palato-maxillary canal, and divides in the roof of the mouth into branches which are received into grooves in the hard palate, and extend forwards nearly to the incisor teeth. In the mouth it supplies the inner side of the gum, the glands, and the mucous membrane of the hard palate, and joins in front with the naso-palatine nerve. When entering its canal, this pala- tine nerve gives a nasal branch which ramifies on the middle and lower spongy bones; and a little before leaving the canal, another branch is supplied to the membrane covering the lower spongy bone: these are the inferior nasal branches. (h) The small ox posterior palatine nerve enters, with a small artery, the lesser palatine canal, and is conducted to the soft palate, the tonsil, and the uvula. Through it are supplied also the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles. (c) The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the series, courses through the external palatine canal between the maxilla and the tuber- osity of the palate bone, to be distributed to the tonsil and the outer part of the soft palate. This nerve is occasionally wanting. Internal branches.—These consist of the naso-palatine, and the upper nasal branches, which ramify in the lining membrane of the nasal fossae and adjoining sinuses. The upper nasal are very small branches,-and enter the back part of the nasal fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen. Some are prolonged to the upper and posterior part of the septum, and the remainder ramify563 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. in the membrane covering the upper two spongy bones, and in that lining the posterior ethmoidal cells. The naso-palatine nerve, nerve of Cotunnius (Scarpa) (fig. 314, 3), long and slender, leaves the inner side of the ganglion with the preceding- branches, and after crossing the roof of the nasal fossa is directed down- wards and forwards on the septum nasi, between the periosteum and the pituitary membrane, towards the anterior palatine canal. The nerves of opposite sides descend to the palate through the mesial subdivisions of the canal, called the foramina of Scarpa, the nerve of the right side Fig. 321.—Nerves op the nose and the sphenopalatine ganglioh from the inker side (from Sappey, after Hirsclifelcl and Leveill5). f 1, network of the external branches of the olfactory nerve ; 2, nasal nerve, giving its external branch to the outer 'wall of the nose ; the septal branch is cut short ; 3, spheno- palatine ganglion ; 4, ramification of the large palatine nerve ; 5, small, and 6, external palatine nerve ; 7, inferior nasal branch ; 8, superior nasal branch ; 9, naso-palatine nerve cut short ; 10, Vidian nerve ; 11, great superficial petrosal nerve; 12, great deep petrosal nerve ; 13, the sympathetic nerves ascending on the internal carotid artery. usually behind that of the left (see p. 50). In the lower common fora- men the two naso-palatine nerves are connected with each other in a fine plexus ; and they end in several filaments, which are distributed to the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and communicate with the great palatine nerve. In its course along the septum, small filaments are furnished from the naso-palatine nerve to the pituitary membrane. Posterior branches.—The branches directed backwards from the spheno-palatine ganglion are the Yidian and pharyngeal nerves. The Vidian nerve, arising from the back part of the ganglion, which seems to be prolonged into it, passes backwards through the Yidian canal, and after emerging from this divides in the foramen lacerum into two branches : one of these, the great superficial petrosal nerve, joins the facial, while the other, the great deep petrosal, communicates with the sympathetic. While the Yidian nerve is in its canal, it gives some small nasal branches, which supply the membrane of the back part of the roof of the nose (and septum, as well as the membrane covering the end of the Eustachian tube. Fig. 321. o c 2504 CRANIAL NERVES. The large superficial petrosal nerve, entering the cranium on the outer side of the carotid artery and beneath the Gasserian ganglion, is directed backwards in a groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone to the hiatus Fallopii, and is thus conducted to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it joins the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. The large deep petrosal nerve, shorter than the other, is of a reddish colour and softer texture : it is directed backwards, and on the outer side of the carotid artery ends in the filaments of the sympathetic surrounding that vessel. In accordance with the view taken of the ganglia connected with the fifth nerve (p. 557), the superficial and deep petrosal parts of the Vidian nerve may be regarded as the motor and sympathetic roots respectively of the spheno-palatiue ganglion, the spheno-palatine nerves constituting its sensory root. The pharyngeal nerve is inconsiderable in size, and, instead of emanat- ing directly from the ganglion, is frequently derived altogether from the Vidian. This branch, when a separate nerve, springs from the back of the ganglion, enters the pterygo-palatine canal with an artery, and is lost in the lining membrane of the pharynx behind the Eustachian tube. Summary.—The superior maxillary nerve, with Meckel’s ganglion, supplies the integument above and over the malar bone, and that of the lower eyelid, the ride of the nose, and the upper lip ; the upper teeth ; the lining membrane of the nose ; the membrane of the upper part of the pharynx, of the antrum of Highmore, and of the posterior ethmoidal cells; the soft palate, tonsil, and uvula, and the glandular and mucous structures of the roof of the mouth. III.—INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The lower maxillary nerve, the third and largest division of the fifth, is made up of two portions of unequal size, the larger being derived from the Gasserian ganglion, and the smaller being the slender motor root of the fifth nerve. These two parts leave the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and unite immediately after their exit. Two or three lines below the base of the skull, and under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, the nerve separates into two primary divisions, one of which is higher in position and smaller than the other. The small, anterior, or upper portion receives the greater part of the fibres of the motor root, and breaks up into temporal, masseteric, external pterygoid, and buccal branches, of which the last alone is a sensory nerve. The large, posterior, or lower portion is chiefly sensory, and divides into auriculo-temporal, lingual or gustatory, and inferior dental nerves ; it likewise supplies through the last-mentioned branch the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric. The branch to the internal pterygoid muscle, with which also are connected those proceed- ing from the otic ganglion to the tensors of the palate and tympanum, is sometimes counted as a part of the larger division, but is more correctly regarded as arising from the undivided trunk. The short trunk of the nerve also gives off, as it issues from the foramen ovale, a slender recurrent branch (Arnold), which passes back- wards into the skull through the foramen spinosum with the middle meningeal artery, and divides like that vessel into two branches. The anterior of these sends its filaments into the great wing of the sphenoidINFERIOR MAXILLARY XERYE. 565 bone, while the posterior traverses the petro-squamons fissure and is dis- tributed to the mucous lining of the mastoid cells (Luschka). The deep temporal nerves (figs. 316 and 322) are usually three in number, but are subject to considerable variety in their arrangement. The anterior is given off by the buccal nerve after it has perforated the external pterygoid, and ascends to supply the foremost part of the temporal muscle. The middle passes outwards above the external pterygoid and turns upwards close to the bone to enter the deep surface of the muscle. The posterior is generally conjoined with the masseteric nerve, and, taking- a course similar to the middle branch, ramifies in the hinder part of the muscle. The number of these nerves is frequently reduced by the union of the middle with either of the other branches. The masseteric nerve likewise passes above the external pterygoid, r;g. 3J2. Fig. 322.—View of the branches of the inferior maxillary nerve feom the outer side (from Sappey, after Hirsehfehl and Leveille). § The zygoma and part of the ramus of the jaw have been removed ; the dental canal has been opened up ; the lower part of the temporal muscle has been taken away, and the masseter muscle turned down : 1, masseteric nerve ; 2, posterior deep temporal nerve ; 3, buccal nerve ; 4, branch of the facial; 5, anterior deep temporal nerve ; 6, filaments given by the buccal to the external pterygoid muscle ; 7, middle deep temporal nerve ; 8, auriculo-temporal nerve ; 9, its temporal branches ; 10, its branches to the meatus and auricle ; 11, its union with the facial ; 12, lingual nerve ; 13, mylo-hyoid nerve ; 14, inferior dental nerve ; 15, its twigs to the teeth ; 16, mental branch ; 17, branch of the facial uniting with the mental.CEANIAL NERVES. oGG and is directed nearly horizontally outwards at the posterior border of the temporal muscle, and through the sigmoid notch of the lower jaw, to the masseter, which it enters at the hinder part of its deep surface. It also gives a filament or two to the articulation of the jaw. The external pterygoid nerve generally arises in common with the buccal branch, and penetrates the inner surface of its muscle. The buccal nerve, which differs from the foregoing branches in being entirely a sensory nerve, is usually conjoined at its origin with the anterior deep temporal and the external pterygoid nerves. It passes forwards between the heads of the external pterygoid, and then descends in close contact with the inner side (occasionally perforating some of the fibres) of the temporal muscle at its insertion, to the surface of the buccinator muscle. Here it divides into several branches which join in a plexus round the facial vein with the buccal branches of the facial nerve, and are finally distributed to the skin and mucous membrane of the cheek, extending as far forwards as the angle of the month. Varieties.—The buccal nerve is occasionally replaced by a branch of the superior maxillary (p. 560). It has been seen by Turner arising from the inferior dental nerve in the dental canal, and issuing by a small foramen in the alveolar border of the lower jaw, close to the ramus. Gaillet describes it in one case as arising directly from the Gasserian ganglion, and passing from the cranium through a special aperture between the round and oval foramina. The internal pterygoid nerve is closely connected at its origin with the otic ganglion, and descends to the inner or deep surface of its muscle. Auriculo-temporal nerve.—The auriculo-temporal nerve takes its origin close to the foramen ovale, usually by two roots which surround the middle meningeal artery. It is directed at first backwards, beneath the external pterygoid muscle, to the inner side of the neck of the lower jaw ; then changing its course, it turns upwards between the ear and the temporo-maxillary articulation, under cover of the upper end of the parotid gland ; and finally, emerging from beneath the latter, it ascends over the base of the zygoma in company with the superficial temporal artery, behind which it is placed, to terminate on the side of the head as the superficial temporal nerve. Branches.—{ci) Communicating branches.—The roots of the auriculo- temporal nerve are joined, close to their origin, by slender filaments from the otic ganglion ; and from the trunk of the nerve, as it turns upwards, one or two considerable branches are sent forwards round the commence- ment of the superficial temporal artery to the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve. (&) The articular branches are one or two fine twigs to the hinder part of the temporo-maxillary articulation. (c) The nerves of the external auditory meatus are two in number, upper and lower, and enter the canal between the osseous and cartilag- inous parts of its wall. They supply the skin of the meatus, and the upper one sends a filament to the membrana tympani. (d) Parotid branches pass from the nerve, or from its connecting branches with the facial, to the gland. (e) The anterior auricular nerves are usually two in number and supply the skin of the tragus and of the upper and fore part of the pinna.INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 567 (/) The superficial temporal nerve divides into slender branches which supply the skin over the greater part of the temporal region, the anterior ones forming communications with the temporal branches of the facial nerve (fig. 32 6, 18). Inferior dental nerve.—The inferior dental is the largest of the three branches of the lower maxillary nerve. It descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, behind and to the outer side of the lingual nerve, and, passing between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-maxillary articulation, enters the inferior dental canal. In company with the dental artery, it proceeds along this canal, and supplies branches to the teeth. At the mental foramen it bifurcates; one part, the incisor branch, being continued onwards within the bone to- wards the middle line, while the other, the much larger mental branch, escapes by the foramen to the face. When about to enter the foramen on the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw, the inferior dental nerve gives off the slender mylo-hyoid branch. (a) The mylo-hyoid branch descends in the groove on the inner side of the ramus of the lower jaw to the under surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which and to the anterior belly of the digastric it is dis- tributed. The fibres of this nerve may be traced back within the sheath of the inferior dental to the motor portion of the inferior maxillary nerve. (b) The dental branches supply the molar and bicuspid teeth, together with the adjoining part of the gum. They form by their communications a fine inferior dental plexus, resembling that formed by the corresponding nerves in the upper jaw. (c) The incisor branch continues the direction of the trunk of the nerve, and supplies filaments to the canine and incisor teeth. (d) The mental or labial nerve, emerging from the bone by the mental foramen, divides beneath the depressor anguli oris into three parts, an inferior, which descends to the integument of the chin, and two superior, which ascend to the skin and mucous membrane of the lower lip. All three communicate freely with the supramaxillary branch of the facial nerve. Varieties.—The inferior dental and lingual nerves have been observed to form a single trunk as far as the dental foramen. The inferior dental nerve sometimes has one or two accessory roots from other divisions of the inferior maxillary. The most common of these is one which arises from the Gasserian ganglion and remains separate until after it enters the dental canal (lesser Inferior dental nerve, Sapolini). The mylo-hyoid nerve frequently (constantly, Sappey) gives off a small branch, which pierces the mylo-hyoid muscle and joins the lingual nerve. Branches are also described as passing from the mylo-hyoid nerve to the depressor anguli oris and platysma myoides muscles (Henle), to the integument below the chin (Krause, Schwalbe), and to the submaxillary gland (Meckel, Henle, Cumow). Lingual nerve.—The lingual branch (or gustatory nerve) descends under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, lying to the inner side and in front of the dental nerve, and generally united to that by a cord which may cross over the internal maxillary artery. Near its origin, it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, a small branch which is given off by the facial nerve, and descends from the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. It then passes between the internal pterygoid muscle568 CEANIAL NERVES. and the ramus of the lower jaw, and is inclined obliquely inwards to the side of the tongue, over the upper constrictor of the pharynx, (where this muscle is attached to the maxillary bone) and above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland. Lastly, the nerve crosses below Wharton’s duct, and is continued along the side of the tongue to the apex, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane. Branches.—(a) Communicating branches.—In addition to the cord above mentioned passing from the inferior dental to the lingual nerve, and the connection with the facial nerve through the chorda tympani, the lingual nerve gives off branches to the submaxillary ganglion at the place where it is in contact with the submaxillary gland, and a little farther forwards one or two filaments descend over the fore part of the hyo-glossus muscle to join in loops with similar branches of the hypo- glossal nerve. (b) Branches to the mucous membrane of the mouth are given from the nerve at the side of the tongue, and supply also the gum. Some delicate filaments are likewise distributed to the sublingual gland. (c) The lingual or terminal branches perforate the muscular structure of the tongue, and divide into filaments which are directed upwards to the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the organ, where they terminate mainly in the conical and fungiform papilla?. Submaxillary Ganglion. The submaxillary or lingual ganglion (fig. 831, 7) is placed above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and is connected by anterior and posterior filaments with the lingual nerve, from which it thus appears to be suspended by a loop. It is somewhat larger than the ophthalmic ganglion, and triangular or fusiform in shape. Its hinder part receives branches from nerves which may be regarded as its roots, while from its fore and lower parts proceed the branches for distribution. Roots of tiie ganglion.—The posterior connecting branch from the lingual nerve, often broken up into two or three filaments, conveys to the ganglion fibres from the chorda tympani and the inferior maxillary nerve, and thus represents the motor and sensory roots of the ganglion. The sympathetic root is formed by slender twigs from the plexus on the facial artery. Branches.— Five or six small nerves descend from the ganglion to the submaxillary gland, and others run forwards to the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton’s duct. The anterior branch of communication with the lingual nerve is probably composed of fibres which pass from the ganglion and are distributed with the offsets of that nerve. There is also occasionally a small branch or two passing to the hypoglossal nerve (Meckel, Bose). A minute sublingual ganglion is described by Blandin and some other anatomists on the filaments passing from the lingual nerve to the sublingual gland (fig 331, 8). Otic Ganglion. The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, of a reddish-grey colour, is oval in shape, flattened from within out, and measures about one-sixth of an inch in its longest (antero-posterior) diameter. It is situated immediately below the foramen ovale, on the deep surface of the inferiorOTIC GANGLION 569 maxillary nerve, covering, and not unfreqnently surrounding, the origin of the internal pterygoid branch. Its inner surface is close to the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube and the tensor palati muscle ; behind it is the middle meningeal artery. Roots.-—1The ganglion receives, through its connection with the nerve to the internal pterygoid, fibres from the inferior maxillary nerve, and these may be regarded as constituting its motor and sensory roots (short root of Arnold) ; the sympathetic root is a filament (or two) passing forwards from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. The gang- lion is also joined posteriorly by the small superficial petrosal nerve {long root, Arnold), which connects it with, and probably conveys to it fibres from, the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves (p. 577). Branches.—{a) Two or more filaments pass backwards to the roots Fig. 323.—Otio gang- lion AND ITS CONNEC- TIONS FROM THE INNER. side (from Sappey, after Arnold). The temporal bone is divided so as to show the inner surface of the mem- brana tympani and the car.al of the facial nerve ; the foramen ovale is opened on the inner side : 1, small root of the fifth nerve, passing down on the inner side of the Gasserian gang- lion to unite with the in- ferior maxillary division ; 2, inferior dental nerve 3, mylo-hyoid branch, seen also farther down {merg- ing in front of the internal pterygoid muscle ; 4, lingual; 5, chorda tym- pani ; 6, facial nerve in its canal ; 7, auriculo- temporal nerve, enclosing in its loop of origin the middle meningeal artery ; 8, otic gang- lion ; 9, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 10, branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; if, twig connecting the ganglion with the auriculo-temporal nerve; 12, twig to the gang- lion from the sympathetic on the meningeal artery ; 13, nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle ; 14, branch to the tensor palati muscle. of the auriculo-temporal nerve, in which their fibres appear, from the result of physiological experiments on animals, to be conducted to the parotid gland. (&) A communicating twig descends to the chorda tympani. (c and d) Two small nerves are distributed to muscles—one to the tensor tympani, the other to the tensor palati, but the greater number of the fibres of these branches can be followed backwards to the inferior maxillary nerve, where they arise in common with the nerve to the internal pterygoid. Summary.—Cutaneous filaments of the inferior maxillary nerve ramify on the side of the head, and the external ear, in the external auditory canal, the lower lip, and the lower part of the face ; sensory branches are supplied by it to the greater part of the tongue ; and570 CRANIAL NERVES. branches are furnished to the mucous membrane of the mouth, the lower teeth and gums, the salivary glands, and the articulation of the lower jaw. This nerve supplies the muscles of mastication, viz., the masseter, temporal, and two pterygoids ; also the mylo-hyoid, the anterior belly of the digastric, the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles. VI.—ABDUCENT NERVE. The sixth nerve (abducent nerve of the eyeball, external oculomotor) makes its appearance as a flattened band in the groove between the pons and the medulla oblongata, immediately external to the upper end of the pyramid. One or two of the innermost bundles frequently issue between the fibres of the pyramid, or from the lower edge of the pons. The nerve speedily becomes rounded, and is directed forwards to an aperture in the dura mater at the lower and outer part of the dorsum sell®. It then continues its course forwards, lying close to the floor of the cavernous sinus, in contact with the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and passes into the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and between the heads of the external rectus, to be distributed to that muscle, which it pierces on its ocidar surface (fig. 315, 6 ; fig. 318, 5). As the nerve enters the orbit, it is placed below the other nerves passing through the sphenoidal fissure, but above the ophthalmic veins. While contained in the cavernous sinus, the sixth nerve is joined by filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and as it enters the orbit it receives a small filament from the ophthalmic nerve (Rosenthal). Variety.—Absence of the sixth nerve upon one side is recorded, its place being supplied by a branch of the third nerve (Generali). VII.—FACIAL NERVE. . The seventh or facial nerve (portio dura of the seventh pair of Willis) takes its superficial origin from the uppermost part of the medulla oblongata, in the depression between the olivary and restiform bodies, where it emerges in a line with the roots of the fifth nerve, and close to the lower edge of the pons, to which it is frequently adherent for a short distance. To its outer side is the auditory nerve, and between the two is a slender fasciculus (fig. 310, between vn and vm), which is known as the jiortio or pars intermedia of Wrisberg, and joins the facial nerve in the auditory canal. This intermediate part is frequently connected more or less closely at its origin with one or both of the nerves between which it lies, and in many cases a few of its fibres pass distally into the auditory nerve (E. Bischoff, Henle). From its origin, the facial nerve is directed outwards in company with the auditory nerve to the internal auditory meatus. Here the facial lies in a groove along the upper and fore part of the auditory nerve, and the portio intermedia is placed between the two. At the bottom of the meatus the facial nerve enters the aqueduct of Fallopius, and follows the windings of that canal through the temporal bone to the lower surface of the skull. It passes at first horizontally outwards for a short distance, between the cochlea and vestibule, to the inner wall of the tympanum, where it bends sharply backwards above the fenestra ovalis, and then arches downwards behind the pyramid and the tympanic cavity to issue571 FACIAL NERVE. by the stylo-mastoid foramen. At the place where it turns backwards (genu), the nerve presents on its fore part a reddish enlargement which contains numerous nerve-cels, and is named the geniculate ganglion Fig. 324.—Tiie facial nerve IN ITS CANAL, WITH ITS CON- NECTING BRANCHES, &C. (fl'Oni Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). I The mastoid and a part of the petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the internal meatus to the stylo-mastoid fora- men ; the Vidian canal has also been opened from the outside: 1, facial nerve in the first horizontal part of its course ; 2, its second part turning backwards; 3, its vertical portion ; 4, the nerve at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion ; 6, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 7, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, chorda tympani : 10, posterior auricular branch cut short; 11, branch to the digastric muscle; 12, branch to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; 13, twig uniting with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (lland 15). (intumesceutia ganglioformis). Below the skull, the trunk is continued downwards and forwards through the substance of the parotid gland, and a little behind the ramus of the lower jaw it terminates by dividing into Fig. 325.—Geniculate ganglion of the FACIAI. NERVE AND ITS CONNECTIONS from above (from Bidder). The dissection is made in the middle fossa of the skull on the right side ; part of the temporal bone being removed so as to open the internal auditory meatus, hiatus Fallopii, and a part of the canal of the facial nerve, together with the cavity of the tympanum : «, auricle ; b, middle fossa of the skull with the menin- geal artery ramifying in it ; 1, facial and auditory nerves in the internal auditory meatus ; 2, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 3, small superficial petrosal nerve lying over the tensor tympani muscle ; 4, external superficial petrosal nerve joining sympathetic twigs on the meningeal artery ; 5, facial and chorda tympani ; 6, nerves entering the jugular fora- men. two parts, temporo-facial and cervico-facial, from which numerous branches spread over the side of the head, the face, and the upper part of the neck, communicating freely with one another, and thus forming a radiating plexus to wrhich the name of pes anserinus is given.572 CRANIAL NERVES. Branches.—A. Arising from the facial nerve during its coarse through the temporal bone :— Communicating filaments with the auditory nerve.—These are one or two slender twigs passing between the geniculate ganglion and the upper division of the eighth nerve at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus. The large superficial petrosal nerve is directed forwards from the geniculate ganglion, and issues by the hiatus Fallopii on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. Inclining downwards beneath the Gasserian ganglion, the nerve enters the foramen lacerum, and is continued across the outer side of the internal carotid artery to the posterior opening of the Vidian canal, where it unites with the large deep petrosal nerve (derived from the sympathetic on the carotid artery) to form the Vidian nerve joining the back of the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 5C3). Communication with the small superficial petrosal nerve.—A minute branch connects the geniculate ganglion with the small super- ficial petrosal nerve passing from the tympanic plexus to the otic ganglion (p. 577). The external superficial petrosal nerve (Bidder) unites the geniculate ganglion with the sympathetic filaments on the middle meningeal artery. This nerve is not always present (Rauber). A branch to the stapedius muscle is given off by the facial nerve as it descends behind the pyramid. Chorda tympani.—The branch named chorda tympani arises from the facial nerve at the lower end of the aqueduct of Fallopius, and is directed upwards and forwards through a small canal which opens on the posterior wall of the tympanum, close to the attachment of the tympanic membrane. It then arches forwards, being invested by the mucous lining of the cavity, across the upper part of the membrane and over the inner side of the handle of the malleus, above the insertion of the tensor tympani muscle. Finally, leaving the cavity by an aperture at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure, the nerve inclines downwards on the mesial side of the internal lateral ligament of the jaw, and unites at an acute angle with the lingual nerve, in which its fibres are continued to the submaxillary ganglion and the tongue. Before joining the lingual nerve, the chorda receives a communicating filament from the otic ganglion. A communication with the auricular branch of the pneumo- gastric nerve is generally present, in the form of a twig leaving the facial nerve close above the stylo-mastoid foramen (see p. 582). B. Arising from the facial nerve below the base of the sJcull ••— The posterior auricular nerve arises close to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and turns upwards between the car and the mastoid process, where it divides into auricular and occipital branches. The auricular branch ascends behind the ear and is distributed to the retrahens auriculam and the small muscles on the cranial surface of the pinna. A twig is sometimes continued upwards to the hinder part of the attollens muscle. The occipital branch is directed backwards close to the bone, and supplies the posterior part of the occipito-frontalis muscle. The posterior auricular nerve receives communications from the great auricular and small occipital nerves of the cervical plexus, as well as from the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric, and certain filamentsFACIAL NERVE. 573 which may sometimes be followed from its branches to the skin are pro- bably composed of fibres derived from these nerves. The digastric branch arises close below the preceding nerve, and divides into two or three filaments which enter the posterior belly of the digastric muscle ; one of these sometimes passes through or above the digastric, and joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve near the base of the skull. The stylo-hyoid branch, long and slender, arises in common with the digastric branch, and inclines forwards to enter the stylo-hyoid muscle on its posterior aspect. Temporo-facial division.—The temporo-facial, the larger of the two primary divisions of the facial nerve, is directed forwards through the upper part of the parotid gland, crossing over the external carotid artery and the temporo-maxillary vein. It receives one or two consider- able offsets from the auriculo-temporal nerve (p. 5C6), and speedily divides into a number of branches which form, by their communications with one another and with branches of the fifth nerve, a network over the side of the face, extending as high as the temple and as low as the mouth. Its ramifications are arranged in temporal, malar, and infraorbital sets. The temporal branches ascend over the zygoma and supply the attrahens and attollens auriculam muscles, the frontalis, the upper part of the orbicularis palpebrarum, and the corrugator supercilii. One or two filaments pass on to the auricle, and are distributed to the small muscles on its outer surface. These branches form communications with the auriculo-temporal nerve, the temporal branch of the superior maxil- lary, and the supraorbital and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve. The malar branches cross the malar bone to reach the outer side of the orbit and supply the orbicular muscle. Some filaments are dis- tributed to both the upper and lower eyelids : those in the upper lid join filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves, and those in the lower lid are connected with filaments from the superior maxillary nerve. Filaments from this part of the facial also communicate with the malar branch of the upper maxillary nerve. The infraorbital branches, of larger size than the others, are almost horizontal in direction, and are distributed between the orbit and mouth. They supply the buccinator and orbicularis oris muscles, the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth, and the muscles of the nose. Be- neath the elevator of the upper lip these nerves are united in a plexus with the terminal branches of the superior maxillary nerve ; on the side of the nose they communicate with the nasal, and at the inner angle of the orbit with the infratrochlear nerve. The lower branches of this set are connected with those of the cervico-facial division. Cervicofacial division.—This division of the facial nerve is directed obliquely through the parotid gland towards the angle of the lower jaw, and gives branches to the face, below those of the preceding division, and to the upper part of the neck. The branches are named buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. In the gland, this division of the facial nerve is joined by filaments of the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, and offsets from it penetrate the substance of the gland. The buccal branches are directed across the masseter muscle to the angle of the mouth ; supplying the buccinator and sphincter muscles, they communicate with the temporo-facial division, and on the buccinatorCRANIAL NERVES. 574 muscle join with filaments of the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supramaxillary branch, sometimes double, runs forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris, and, after communicating with the mental branch of the inferior dental nerve, supplies the muscles of the lower lip. One superficial branch is continued along the margin of the lower jaw to the chin. Fig. 326. Fig. 326.—Superficial distribution op. the facial, trigimenal and other nerves of tiie head (from Sappcy, after Hirsckfeld and Reveille). 5 a, Facial Nerve.—1, trunk of the facial nerve after its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 2, posterior auricular branch ; 3, filament of the great auricular nerve uniting with the foregoing ; 4, occipital branch ; 5, auricular branch ; 6, twig to the superior auri- cular muscle ; 7, nerve to the digastric ; 8, that to the stylo-hyoid muscle ; 9, superior or temporo-facial division of the nerve ; 10, 11, temporal branches ; 12, malar ; 13, 14, infra- orbital ; 15, inferior or cervico-facial division of the nerve ; 16, supramaxillary, and above this the buccal branches ; 17, inframaxillary branch. b, Fifth Nerve.—18, auriculo-temporal nerve uniting with the facial, giving anterior auricular and parotid branches, and ascending to the temporal region ; 19, 20, supra- orbital nerve; 21, palpebral twigs of the lachrymal ; 22, infratroclilear nerve ; 23, malar twig of the orbito-malar ; 24, superficial branch of the nasal nerve ; 25, infraorbital nerve ; 26, buccal nerve uniting with branches of the facial ; 27, mental nerve. c, Cervical Nerves.-—28, great occipital nerve; 29, great auricular nerve; 30, 31, small occipital ; 32, superficial cervical nerve.575 AUDITORY NERVE. The inframaxillary "branch perforates the deep cervical fascia and divides into slender offsets, which form arches beneath the platysma as low as the hyoid bone. Some branches join the superficial cervical nerve beneath the platysma, others enter that muscle, and a few perforate it to end in the integument. Summary.—The facial nerve is the principal motor nerve of the head, supplying all the superficial, and several of the deep muscles. Its super- ficial offsets are distributed to the muscles of the scalp, the muscles of the external ear, nose, mouth, and eyelids (with the exception of the levator palpebrae superioris), and to the cutaneous muscle of the neck (platysma). It likewise supplies the muscles of the tympanum, the levator palati and azygos uvulae muscles (through the large superficial petrosal nerve), and in the neck the stylo-hyoid and the posterior belly of the digastric. The facial nerve is freely connected with the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; and it also has communications with the spheno-maxillary, sub- maxillary and otic ganglia, with the auditory, glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves (through the auricular branch of the latter), and with parts of the sympathetic and spinal nerves. VIII.—AUDITORY NERVE. The eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis of the seventh pair of ’Willis) makes its appearance on the outer side of the facial nerve, and is closely adherent for a short distance to the lower border of the pons (or middle peduncle of the cerebellum). It commences by two roots, the one of which (the inferior) arises in part superficially from the floor of the fourth ventricle, and in part issues from the inner side of the resti- forrn body, while the other (the superior) emerges slightly higher up from the front of the restiform body. The two roots unite as they leave the medulla oblongata, and the nerve is directed outwards to the internal auditory meatus, in company with the facial nerve, which rests in a groove along its upper and fore part, and the auditory artery, which, together with the portio intermedia of the facial nerve, is placed between the two trunks. In the meatus, the nerve divides into an upper smaller and a lower larger part; the upper division furnishes branches to the utricle and the ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals, wfoile the lower is mainly distributed to the cochlea, but also sends offsets to the saccule and the posterior semi- circular canal. (See the anatomy of the ear in Yol. II.) The auditory nerve often receives some of the fibres of the portio intermedia, and its upper division is connected at the bottom of the internal auditory meatus with the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve. IX.—GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. The ninth or glosso-pharyngeal nerve (first trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) arises from the uppe^- part of the medulla oblongata, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, by five or six filaments arranged in a vertical line commencing immediately below the facial and auditory nerves. From its origin, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is directed outwards inCRANIAL NERVES. 576 front of the flocculus to the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, through which it passes in company with the pneumo-gastric and spinal accessory nerves, but in a separate tube of dura mater. In the foramen, where it is placed external to and somewhat in front of the other nerves, it is lodged in a groove, occasionally a canal, in the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and it presents, successively, two ganglionic enlargements :—the jugular ganglion and the petrous ganglion. After leaving the skull, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve appears between the internal carotid artery and the jugular vein, and is directed down- wards over the carotid artery and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the hinder border of the stylo-pharyngeus ; then curving gradually forwards, it crosses over the outer surface of the latter muscle, and passes beneath the hyo-glossus to end in branches for the hinder part of the tongue (fig. 329, 10). Fig. 327.—Diagrammatic sketch FROM BEHIND OF THE ROOTS OF THE NINTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH NERVES, WITH THEIR GANGLIA AND communications (from Bendz). A, part of tire cerebellum above the fourth ventricle ; B, medulla oblon- gata; 0, spinal cord; 1, glosso-pharyn- geal nerve; 2, pneumo-gastric; 3, 3, 3, spinal accessory ; 4, jugular ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 5, petrous ganglion ; 6, tympanic branch ; 7, ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric; S, auricular branch; 9, gang- lion of the trunk of the pneumo- gastric ; 10, branch from the upper ganglion to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 11, inner por- tion of the spinal accessory; 12, outer portion; 13, pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric ; 14, 14, superior laryngeal branch ; 15, twigs con- nected with the sympathetic; 16, in- ternal part of the spinal accessory prolonged with the pneumo-gastric. The jugular ganglion is situated at the upper part of the osseous groove in which the nerve lies during its passage through the jugular foramen. It is from half a line to a line in length, and it includes only the lower filaments of the nerve, the upper ones forming a separate fasciculus which passes over the ganglion, and joins the trunk of the nerve below it. This ganglion is not always to be distinguished, and it is regarded by Henle and others as resulting, when present, from the more or less complete separation of a part of the petrous ganglion. The petrous ganglion is contained in a small depression at the lower end of the groove in the petrous part of the temporal bone, and measures from two to three lines in length. From it arise the small branches by which the glosso-pharyngeal is connected with other nerves at the base of the skull; these are the tympanic nerve, and the branches of communication with the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic. Branches.—A. Connecting branches and tympanic branch. Fig. 327.Fig. 32S. GLOSSO-PHAEYNGEAL A’EIiVE. 577 THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE, The glosso-pharyngeal nerve One filament unites the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve with the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; _ a second passes to the auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric; and a third, which however is not constant, joins the ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric nerve. Fig. 328.—The tympanic branch op and its connections (from Brescliet). A, squamous part of the left tem- poral bone : B, petrous part; C, in- ferior maxillary nerve ; D, internal carotid artery ; a, tensor tympani muscle; 1, sympathetic plexus ; 2, otic ganglion ; 3, glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 4, tympanic nerve; 5, 5, twigs joining the sympathetic ; 6, twig to fenestra rotunda; 7, twig to fenestra ovalis ; 8, junction with the facial nerve ; 9. small super- ficial petrosal nerve ; 10, twig from the otic ganglion to the tensor tym- pani muscle ; 11, facial nerve ; 12, chorda tympani; 13, petrous gang- lion of the glosso-pharyngeal; 14, small deep petrosal nerve. is also joined below the petrous ganglion, in many cases, by a communicating branch from the facial nerve (p. 573). The tympanic branch (nerve oi Jacobson) ascends from the petrous ganglion through a small canal, the orifice of which is seen on the ridge of bone between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. Having gained the inner wall of the tympanum, the nerve runs upwards and forwards in a groove on the surface of the promontory, and, after giving (or receiving) several branches, leaves the cavity at its upper and fore part, where it becomes the small superficial petrosal nerve. The latter traverses a small canal, which crosses beneath the upper end of the canal of the tensor tympani muscle, and emerges on the upper surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, immediately external to the hiatus Fallopii. Then inclining downwards, the nerve passes from the skull through the fissure between the petrous and the great wing of the sphenoid, or occasionally through a small aperture in the latter bone, and terminates in the otic ganglion. As it lies in its canal, the small superficial petrosal nerve is joined by a filament of communication from the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve, or from the large superficial petrosal nerve close to that ganglion. The branches of the tympanic nerve are partly distributed to the mucous lining of the middle ear, and partly form communications with other nerves, giving rise to what is called the tympanic plexus. Of the former set, the principal branches are, one directed forwards to the Eustachian tube, and two backwards to the neighbourhood of the fenestra rotunda and fenestra ovalis, and to the mastoid cells. The communicating branches are, in addition to the small superficial petrosal VOL. i. p p578 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve with its filament of union with the facial, one or two twigs which pass downwards and forwards through the anterior wall of the tympanum to the carotid canal and join the sympathetic on the carotid artery, and the small deep petrosal nerve (Arnold) which runs forwards in a minute canal in the substance of the processus cochleariformis and enters the foramen lacerum, where it joins the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, sometimes also the large superficial petrosal nerve. B. Branches distributed in the neck. Pharyngeal branches.—The largest of these (carotid branch, pharyngeal division of the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve—Henle) descends along the internal carotid artery and unites with the pharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the pharyngeal plexus (p. 582); this branch is sometimes divided into two or even three parts. One or two smaller twigs pass inwards through the superior constrictor muscle, and supply the mucous membrane of the upper part of the pharynx. A muscular branch is furnished to the stylo-pharyngeus, and sends also filaments through the muscle to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. Tonsillitic branches. — Slender filaments pass from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, as it approaches the base of the tongue, to the tonsil, over which they form a sort of plexus (circulus tonsillaris), to the soft palate, and to the pillars of the fauces. Lingual branches.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides as it passes beneath the hyo-glossus muscle into two parts. One turns to the upper surface of the tongue and subdivides into many branches, which supply the circumvallate papillae and the mucous membrane over the posterior third of the organ, the hindmost filaments reaching the anterior surface of the epiglottis. The other is smaller, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the side of the tongue, extending to about the middle of its length, where it forms a communication with the lingual nerve. Variety.—In one case a branch, from the glosso-pharyngeal supplied the mylo- hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric, the normal mylo-hyoid nerve being wanting (Guy’s Hosp. Reports, vol. xiv., p. 436). Summary.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve distributes branches to the mucous membrane of the tongue, pharynx and middle ear, as well as to one muscle—the stylo-pharyngeus. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., the inferior maxillary division of the fifth (through the otic ganglion), the facial, the pneumo-gastric (its trunk and branches), and the sympathetic. X.—PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The tenth or pneumo-gastric nerve (nervus vagus, par vagum, second trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) is much larger than the glosso- pharyngeal, and has the longest course of all the cranial nerves, extending through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It arises from the medulla oblongata immediately in front of the restiform body, by twelve or fifteen filaments beginning close below, and continuing the line of, the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. These form at first a flat band, which is directed outwards below the flocculus to the middle compartment of the jugular foramen. Here thePNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 579 pneumo-gastric nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater and arachnoid as the spinal accessory nerve, and its filaments unite in a small ganglionic enlargement which is known as the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. After its passage through the foramen, it is joined by the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve, and a second ganglion is formed upon it, the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve. Several com- munications are at the same time established with surrounding nerves. The upper ganglion or ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve (jugular ganglion), situated in the jugular foramen, is of a greyish colour, nearly spherical, and about two lines in diameter. It has fila- ments connecting it with other nerves, viz., with the facial, the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, the spinal accessory, and the sym- pathetic. The lower ganglion or ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo- gastric nerve (cervical ganglion, plexus ganglioformis), is placed below the base of the skull, about half an inch beyond the upper ganglion. It is of a flattened cylindrical form and reddish colour, and measures about nine lines in length and two in breadth. The accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve runs over the surface of the ganglion, and is in great measure continued directly into the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus ; some of the accessory fibres, however, become incorporated with the main trunk, and enter the inferior laryngeal and cardiac branches. The lower ganglion communicates with the hypoglossal, the spinal, and the sympathetic nerves. The pneumo-gastric nerve descends in the neck between, and con- cealed by, the internal jugular vein and the internal carotid artery, and afterwards similarly between the vein and the common carotid artery, being enclosed along with them in the sheath of the vessels. In their passage into and through the thorax, the nerves are disposed differently on the right and left sides. On the right side the nerve crosses over the first part of the right sub- clavian artery at the root of the neck, and its recurrent laryngeal branch turns backwards and upwards round that vessel. The nerve then enters the thorax behind the right innominate vein, and descends on the side of the trachea to the back of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in the posterior pulmonary plexus. It emerges from this plexus in the form of two cords, which are directed to the oesophagus, and by their union and subdivision on it form, with similar branches of the left side, the oesophageal plexus. Near the lower part of the thorax, the branches of the nerve, which have thus interchanged fibres with the nerve of the left side, are gathered again into a single trunk, which, descending through the diaphragm along the back of the oesophagus, is spread out on the posterior surface of the stomach. On the left side the pneumo-gastric nerve, entering the thorax between the left carotid and subclavian arteries and behind the left innominate vein, lies farther forwards than the right nerve, and crosses over the arch of the aorta, while its recurrent laryngeal branch turns up behind the arch. It then passes behind the root of the left lung, forming, like its fellow, a posterior pulmonary plexus, whence it descends along the oesophagus, and takes part in the formation of the oesophageal plexus. Interiorly, it forms a single trunk in front of the oesophagus, and is spread out on the anterior surface of the stomach. r p 2CKANIAL NERVES. 580 There are various circumstances in the distribution of the pneumo-gastric nerves which at first sight appear anomalous, but which are explained by re- ference to the process of development. The recurrent direction of the inferior Fig. 329. Pig. 329.—The distribution and connections of the pneumo-gastric nerve on the left side in the neck and upper part of the thorax (from Sappey, after HirscMeld and Leveilld). ^ 1, pneumo-gastric nerve ; 2, ganglion of its trunk ; 3, accessory part of the spinal acces- sory ; 4, union of the pneumo-gastiic with the hypoglossal; 5, pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric ; 6, superior laryngeal nerve ; 7. external laryngeal ; 8, communication of the external laryngeal nerve with the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic ; 9, inferior or recurrent laryngeal; 10, s^ierior, and 11, inferior cervical cardiac branches ; 12, 13, posterior pulmonary plexus ; 14, lingual branch of the inferior maxillary nerve ; 15, distal part of the hypoglossal nerve ; 16, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 17, spinal accessory nerve, uniting by its inner branch with the pneumo-gastric, and by its outer, passing into the sterno-mastoid muscle ; 18, second cervical nerve ; 19, third ; 20, fourth ; 21, origin of the phrenic nerve ; 22, 23, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves, forming with the first dorsal the brachial plexus ; 24, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 25, middle cervical ganglion ; 26, inferior cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal ganglion ; 27, 2S, 29, 30, second, third, fourth, and fifth dorsal ganglia.581 PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. laryngeal branches in all probability arises from the extreme shortness or rather absence of the neck in the embryo at first, and from the branchial arterial arches having originally occupied a position at a higher level than the parts in which those branches are ultimately distributed, and having dragged them down as it were in the descent of the heart from the neck to the thorax. The recurrent direction may therefore be accepted as evidence of the development of those nerves before the occurrence of that descent. The passage of one recurrent laryngeal nerve round the subclavian artery, and of the other round the aorta, arises from the originally symmetrical disposition in which the innominate and subclavian arteries on the right side, and the arch of the aorta on the left, are derived from corresponding arches. The supply of the back of the stomach by the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and of the front by the left nerve, is connected with the originally symmetrical condition of the alimentary canal, and the turning over of the stomach on its right side in its subsequent growth. Branches.—Some of the branches of the pneumo-gastric serve to connect this with other nerves, but the larger number are distributed to various parts of the circulatory, respiratory and digestive systems. The Fig. 330.—Diagram op the roots AND ANASTOMOSING BRANCHES OF THE PNEUMO-GASTRIC AND NEIGH- BOURING nerves (from Sappcy, after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). 1, facial nerve ; 2, glosso-pharyn- geal with the petrous ganglion ; 2', connection of the digastric branch of the facial nerve with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve; 3, pneumo- gastric, with its two ganglia ; 4, spinal accessory; 5, hypoglossal ; 6, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 7, 7, loop of union between the first two cervical nerves ; 7, carotid branch of the sympathetic; 9, nerve of Jacobson (tympanic), given off from the petrous ganglion; 10, its filaments to the sympathetic ; 11, twig to the Eustachian tube; 12, twig to the fenestra ovalis; 13, twig to the fenestra rotunda ; 14, small superficial petrosal nerve ; 15, large superficial petrosal nerve; 16, otic ganglion; 17, auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric; 18, connection of the spinal accessory with the pneumo-gastric; 19, union of the hypoglossal with the first cervical nerve; 20, union between the sterno-mastoid branch of the spinal accessory and that of the second cervical nerve; 21, pharyn- geal plexus; 22, superior laryngeal nerve ; 23, external laryngeal; 24, middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Fig. 330. special connecting branches arise from the two ganglia of the nerve. The branches of distribution arise from the nerve in the several stages of its course as follows :—In the jugular foramen, a small branch is given to the dura mater, and another to the ear ; in the neck, branches areCRANIAL NERVES. 582 furnished successively to the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart ; in the thorax, additional branches are supplied to the heart, as well as offsets to the lungs and oesophagus ; and in the abdomen, its terminal branches are distributed to the stomach, liver, and other organs. A. Branches of communication. The upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric nerve receives a twig from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; one or two filaments pass between it and the spinal accessory nerve ; and there is sometimes a filament connecting it with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. The lower ganglion of the pneumo-gastric forms connections with the hypoglossal nerve, with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop between the first two cervical nerves. B. Branches of distribution . The recurrent or meningeal branch arises from the upper ganglion of the pneumo-gastric, and passes backwards through the jugular foramen to be distributed to the dura mater in the posterior fossa of the base of the skull. The auricular branch (nerve of Arnold) is given off from the ganglion of the root, and, after receiving a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, runs backwards along the outer boundary of the jugular foramen to an opening near the root of the styloid process. It then traverses the substance of the temporal bone, crosses the aqueduct of Fallopius on its inner side about two lines from the lower end, forming here a communication with the facial nerve, and finally emerges between the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, where it divides into two parts, the one of which joins the posterior auricular nerve, while the other is distributed to the skin of the back of the pinna, and the lower and back part of the auditory canal. Varieties.—In rare instances, absence of the auricular branch has been observed, or of the communication with the facial nerve. The auricular branch occasionally passes entirely into the facial trunk, and in that case its fibres are probably conveyed to the external ear through the posterior auricular nerve. The pharyngeal branch, often represented by two or even more off- sets, and composed mainly of fibres prolonged from the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve, leaves the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus. It courses inwards over the internal carotid artery, and divides into branches which, conjointly with those derived from the glosso-pharyngeal and the sympathetic, form the jjharyngeal plexus. This plexus often contains one or more small ganglia, and from it filaments pass to the muscles and mucous membrane of the larynx. One slender branch (Ungual branch of the vagus—Luschka) descends from the pharyngeal plexus, receiving its fibres from the pharyngeal branches of both the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves, and joins the hypoglossal nerve as that turns round the occipital artery. Superior laryngeal nerve.—This branch springs from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus, and inclines forwards on the inner side of the internal carotid artery towards the larynx. It is joined by fine filaments from the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic and from the pharyngeal plexus, and speedily divides into two branches which are distinguished as external and internal laryngeal. The external laryngeal branch, the smaller of the two, runs downwardsPNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. oS3 and forwards beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone to the crico-thyroid muscle in which it ends. It receives a filament from the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and it gives off twigs to the inferior constrictor muscle of the pharynx, as well as generally a cardiac branch which joins the superior cardiac branch of the sympathetic. Offsets of the external laryngeal nerve have been described by different anato- mists as passing to the pharyngeal plexus, to the thyroid body, to the sterno- hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and thyro-hyoid muscles, and to the mucous membrane of the true vocal cord. The internal laryngeal branch is continued to the interval between the hyoid bone and the thyroid cartilage, where it perforates the thyro- hyoid membrane with the laryngeal branch of the superior thyroid artery, and breaks up into numerous diverging branches which supply the mucous membrane of the greater part of the larynx. Some of these ascend in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold to the base of the tongue and the epiglottis ; while others pass downwards to the false vocal cord, and also to the part of the pharyngeal mucous membrane covering the back of the larynx. One long branch descends beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and joins at the lower part of’the larynx a similar offset ascending from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior laryngeal nerve.—The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve of the right side arises at the root of the neck, and turns backwards below the subclavian artery ; the nerve of the left side arises in the upper part of the thorax, and is reflected round the transverse part of the arch of the aorta immediately beyond the attachment of the ligament of the ductus arteriosus. Each nerve ascends in the neck, passing behind the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and lying in the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, where it enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor muscle. Under cover of the ala of the thyroid cartilage, the nerve divides into branches which supply all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, with the exception of the crico-thyroid. It likewise gives a few offsets to the mucous membrane below the rima glottidis, and a connecting filament which joins the long branch of the upper laryngeal nerve beneath the hinder part of the thyroid cartilage. The recurrent nerve also furnishes branches to the cardiac plexus, and twigs of communication with the inferior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic, as it turns round the large artery; tracheal and oesophageal branches as it ascends in the neck; and lastly, offsets to the inferior con-' strictor of the pharynx as it passes beneath that muscle. Cardiac branches.—Branches to the heart are given off by the pneumo-gastric nerve both in the neck and in the thorax. The cervical cardiac branches arise at both the upper and the lower part of the neck. The upper branches, one or two, are small, and join the cardiac nerves of the sympathetic. The loicer, a single branch, arises as the pneumo-gastric nerve is about to enter the chest. On the right side this branch lies by the side of the innominate artery, and joins one of the cardiac nerves destined for the deep cardiac plexus ; it gives some filaments to the coats of the aorta. The branch of the left side crosses the arch of the aorta, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. The thoracic cardiac branches of the right side leave the trunk of thePNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. 585 Fig. 331.—View op the distribution and connections op the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves on the right side (after Hirsekfeld and Leveille). % a, lachrymal gland ; b, sublingual gland ; c, submaxillary gland and facial artery ; cl, thyroid body; e, trachea, below which is the right bronchus cut across ; /, oesophagus ; g, stomach, divided near the pylorus ; i, transverse colon ; r, the diaphragm. A, heart ; B, aortic arch, drawn forwards to show the cardiac plexus ; C, innominate artery ; D, subclavian artery ; E, inferior thyroid artery ; F, a divided part of the external carotid artery, upon which runs a nervous plexus ; G, internal carotid emerging from its canal superiorly ; H, descending thoracic aorta'; K, intercostal vein ; L, pul- monary artery ; M, superior vena cava ; O, intercostal artery. 1, ciliary nerves ; 2, branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle ; 3, 3, 3, the three divisions of the fifth nerve ; 4, ophthalmic ganglion ; 5, spheno-palatine ; 6, otic ; 7, submaxillary ; 8, sublingual ; 9, sixth nerve ; 10, facial in its canal, uniting with the spheno-palatine and otic ganglia; 11, glosso-pharyngeal ; 12, right pneumo- gastric ; 13, left pneumo-gastric spreading on the anterior surface of the stomach ; 14, spinal accessory ; 15, hypoglossal; 16, 16, nerves of the cervical plexus ; 17, middle nerve of the brachial plexus; 18, intercostal nerves; 19, lumbar nerve; 21, superior cervical ganglion con- nected with 22, the tympanic nerve ; 23, large superficial petrosal nerve ; 24, cavernous plexus ; 25, sympathetic root of the ophthalmic ganglion ; 26, filament to the pituitary body ; 27, union of the synrpathetic with the upper cervical nerves ; 28, pneumo-gastric nerve ; 29, superior laryngeal nerve ; 30, pharyngeal plexus ; 31, cord of the sympathetic nerve ; 32, superior cardiac nerve ; 33, middle cervical ganglion ; 34, twig connecting the ganglion with, 35, the recurrent; 36, middle cardiac nerve ; 37, cord of the sym- pathetic ; 38, inferior cervical ganglion ; 39, the line from this number crosses the nerves, proceeding from the brachial plexus ; 40, sympathetic twigs surrounding the axillary artery ; 41, branch of union with the first intercostal nerve ; the line from the letter c, pointing to the trachea, crosses the superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves ; 42, cardiac plexus ; 43, 44, right and left coronary plexuses; 45, 46, thoracic portion of the sympathetic cord ; 47, great splanchnic nerve ; 48, semilunar ganglion ; 49, lesser splanchnic ; 50, solar plexus ; 51, union -with the pneumo-gastric nerve ; 52, diaphragm- atic plexus ; 53, coronary plexus ; 54, hepatic ; 55, splenic ; 66, superior mesenteric ; 57, renal plexus ; 58, first lumbar sympathetic ganglion. pneumo-gastric as this nerve lies by the side of the trachea, and some are also derived from the first part of the recurrent branch ; they pass inwards on the air-tube, and end in the deep cardiac plexus. The cor- responding branches of the left side usually come entirely from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Pulmonary branches.—Two sets of pulmonary branches are dis- tributed from the pneumo-gastric nerve to the lung; and they reach the root of the lung, one on its fore part, the other on its posterior as- pect. The anterior pulmonary nerves, two or three in number, are of small size. They join with filaments of the sympathetic ramifying on the pulmonary artery, and with these nerves constitute the anterior pulmonary plexus. Behind the root of the lung the pneumo-gastric nerve becomes flattened, and gives several branches of much larger size than the anterior branches, which, with filaments derived from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, form the posterior pulmonary plexus. Offsets from this plexus extend along the ramifications of the air-tube through the substance of the lung. The anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses of the two sides com- municate with one another in an open network across the front and back respectively of the lower end of the trachea, and through these networks fibres are conveyed from each pneumo-gastric nerve into both lungs. (Esophageal branches.—The oesophagus within the thorax receives branches from the pneumo-gastric nerves, both above and below the pulmonary branches. The lower branches are the larger, and are de- rived from the cesopharjeal plexus, formed by connecting cords between586 CRANIAL NERVES. the nerves of the right ancl left sides, while they lie in contact with the oesophagus. Gastric branches.—The branches distributed to the stomach (gastric nerves) are the terminal branches of both pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerve of the left side, on arriving in front of the oesophagus, opposite the cardiac orifice of the stomach, divides into many branches : the largest of these extend over the fore part of the stomach ; others lie along its small curvature, and unite with branches of the right nerve and the sympathetic ; and some filaments are continued between the layers of the small omentum to the hepatic plexus. The right pneumo- gastric nerve descends on the back of the gullet to the stomach, and dis- tributes branches to the posterior surface of the organ : a large portion of this nerve passes to the coeliac, splenic and left renal plexuses of the sympathetic. Summary.—The pneumo-gastric nerves supply branches directly to the upper part of the alimentary canal, viz., the pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach with the liver and spleen ; and to the respiratory passages, namely, the larynx, trachea, and its divisions in the lungs. They also furnish small offsets to the dura mater and external ear. These nerves give branches likewise to the heart and great vessels by means of their communications with the cardiac plexus, and to the remaining abdominal viscera through their connection with the solar plexus. Each pneumo- gastric nerve is connected with the following cranial nerves—the spinal accessory, glosso-pharyngeal, facial, and hypoglossal; also with some spinal nerves ; and with the sympathetic in the neck, thorax and abdomen. XI.—SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE. The eleventh or spinal accessory nerve (spinal nerve accessory to the vagus, third trunk of the eighth pair of Willis) consists of two parts, the one of which (accessory) joins the trunk of the pneumo-gastric, while the other (spinal) is distributed to the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. It arises by a series of filaments from the side of the medulla oblongata below the pneumo-gastric nerve, and from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low down as the sixth or seventh cervical nerve. The filaments arising from the medulla oblongata form the small accessory portion of the nerve. The lowest spinal filaments are attached to the middle of the lateral column ; the highest ones arise close to the posterior nerve-roots, with the upper one or two of which they are frequently connected. The accessory portion is directed outwards with the pneumo-gastric nerve : the spinal part ascends between the ligamentum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the cervical nerves, passes into the skull through the foramen magnum, and immediately bends outwards to enter the middle compartment of the jugular foramen, where the nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater as the vagus. In the foramen, the two parts of the nerve interchange fibres, and they are sometimes intimately united so as to form a single trunk for a short distance. The accessory part is also connected by one or two filaments with the ganglion of the root of the pneumo-gastric. Below the skull, the internal, accessory or vagal portion passes over the surface of the lower ganglion of the vagus, and sends its fibres into theHYPOGLOSSAL NEE YE. 587 pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches, and into the trunk of that nerve below the ganglion in the manner already described. The external or spinal portion (fig. 332, 5), after issuing from the jugular foramen, is directed backwards across the front of the internal jugular vein, and perforates the sterno-mastoid muscle, supplying this with branches, and joining amongst the fleshy fibres with the nerve furnished to the muscle from the cervical plexus. Descending in the next place obliquely across the posterior triangular space of the neck behind the sterno-mastoid, the nerve passes beneath the trapezius muscle. Here it forms a kind of plexus with branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and distributes filaments to the trapezius, which extend nearly to the lower border of the muscle. Varieties.—The external portion of the spinal accessory nerve frequently crosses behind the internal jugular vein. It is also found sometimes passing beneath the sterno-mastoid without piercing the muscle. In one instance this nerve has been seen terminating in the sterno-mastoid muscle, the trapezius being supplied entirely by the third and fourth cervical nerves (Cumow). XII.—HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. The. hypoglossal or twelfth cranial nerve (ninth pair of Willis) arises from the medulla oblongata by a series of from ten to fifteen fine roots which emerge along the groove separating the pyramid from the olivary body. The filaments are directed outwards above (or behind) the vertebral artery, and are usually collected into two bundles which perforate the dura mater separately opposite the anterior condylar foramen, and are united into a single trunk as they pass through that opening. As it leaves the anterior condylar foramen the nerve is very deeply placed on the inner side of the deep cervical vessels and the pneumo- gastric nerve. Winding round the lower ganglion of the last, to which it is closely bound by connective tissue, the hypoglossal nerve descends, inclining at the same time gradually forwards between the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, to the lower border of the digastric muscle. At this level it curves forwards round the commencement of the occipital artery, the sterno-mastoid branch of which turns down- wards over the nerve, and is thence directed forwards above the hyoid bone to the under part of the tongue. In the latter part of its course, it passes beneath the tendon of the digastric, the lower end of the stylo-hyoid and the mylo-hyoid muscles ; it crosses the external carotid and the lingual arteries ; and it rests upon the hyo-glossus muscle, being accompanied by the ranine vein of the tongue. At the anterior border of the hyo-glossus it is connected with the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, and then penetrates the fibres of the genio-glossus muscle, dividing into branches which are distributed to the muscular substance of the tongue. Branches.—While passing through the anterior condylar foramen, the hypoglossal nerve gives off one or two minute twigs which ramify in the dura mater around the foramen magnum, and in the diploe of the occipital bone (Luschka). The branches arising from the nerve in the neck are partly filaments of communication with other nerves, but mainly offsets of distribution to muscles connected with the hyoid bone and larynx, and to the muscles of the tongue.583 CRANIAL NERVES. A. Branches of communication. Close below the skull the hypoglossal nerve is united by a considerable twig with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, by one or more filaments with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves, and with the ganglion of the trunk of the vagus by fibres which pass between the two nerves where they are in close connection with one another. As the nerve turns round the occipital artery, it is joined by the small lingual branch of the vagus (p. 582), and in the submaxillary region, it is connected with the lingual branch of the fifth nerve by one or two slender loops over the fore part of the hyo-glossus muscle. Fig. 332. Fig. 332.—View of the distribution of the spinal accessory and hypoglossal nerves (from Sappey, after Hirsclrfeld and Leveilld). J 1, lingual nerve ; 2, pneumo-gastric nerve ; 3, superior laryngeal (represented too large) ; 4, external laryngeal branch ; 5, spinal accessory ; 6, second cervical; 7, third ; 8, fourth ; 9, origin of the phrenic nerve ; 10, nerve to the subclavius muscle ; 11, anterior thoracic nerves ; 12, hypoglossal nerve ; 13, its descending branch ; 14, communi- cating branch from the cervical nerves; 15, 16, 18, 19. descending branches from the plexiform union of these nerves to the sterno-byoid, sterno-thyroid and omohyoid muscles ; 17, branch from the descendens noni to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle ; 20, branch from the hypoglossal nerve to the thyro-hyoid muscle ; 21, communicating twigs from the hypoglossal to the lingual nerve ; 22, terminal branches of the hypoglossal nerve.589 HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE. B. Branches of distribution. The descending branch (r. descendens noni) leaves the trunk of the hypoglossal nerve as it crosses over the occipital artery, or a little higher up. It passes downwards on the surface of the common carotid artery, inclining gradually from the outer to the inner side, and being placed generally within, but sometimes on the front of, the carotid sheath. After having given off a branch to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, it joins about the middle of the neck in a loop with one or two branches from the second and third cervical nerves (r. communicantes noni), giving rise to what is termed the ansa hijpoglossi. The concavity of the loop is turned upwards, and the connection between the nerves is frequently effected by two or more interlacing filaments which form a small plexus. From this interlacement of the nerves, offsets are con- tinued backwards to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and down- wards to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. Occasionally a filament is continued to the thorax, where it joins the cardiac and phrenic nerves. Muscular branches.—The branch to the thyro-hyoid muscle is a separate twig arising from the hypoglossal trunk as it approaches the hyoid bone. As it lies beneath the mylo-hyoid, the nerve gives offsets to the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus and genio-hyoid muscles, and the terminal branches, penetrating the genio-glossus, supply that muscle and the intrinsic muscles of the tongue. Varieties.—In one instance, recorded by Riidinger, the hypoglossal nerve was found taking its superficial origin from the posterior surface of the medulla oblongata. The vertebral artery is not unfrequently found passing forwards between, very rarely above, the roots of the nerve. The right and left nerves are occasionally united by a cross branch or loop in the substance of the genio-hyoid, or between that and the genio-glossus muscle. In rare cases, the twelfth nerve gives filaments to the mylo-hyoid muscle (Krause). The descending branch sometimes appears to be derived either altogether from the pneumo-gastric or from both the pneumo-gastric and hypoglossal nerves, but it can generally be shown by dissection that these varieties of origin are only apparent, resulting from the temporary adhesion of the filaments of this branch to those of the pneumo-gastric. It is probable, moreover, that the descendens noni has little if any real origin from the hypoglossal nerve, being formed (according to Luschka, E. Bischoff, Holl and others) of fibres derived from the upper cervical nerves, temporarily associated -with the hypoglossal. It is also stated by IIoll that the thyro-hyoid and genio-hyoid branches are similarly composed of fibres proceeding from the spinal nerves (Zeitsch. f. Anat., 1876). In many animals the twelfth nerve possesses a posterior root furnished with a ganglion, like a spinal nerve. Summary.—The hypoglossal nerve supplies, either alone or in union with branches of the spinal nerves, all the muscles connected with the hyoid bone, including those of the tongue, but with the exception of the digastric, stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also supplies the sterno-thyroid muscle. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., pneumo-gastric, lingual, three upper cervical nerves, and the sympathetic.SPIXAL XERVES. 590 Fig. 333.—Diagrammatic outline of the roots AND FIRST PART OF THE SPINAL NERVES, TO- GETHER WITH THE SYMPATHETIC TRUNK OF ONE SIDE. (A. T.) £ The view is taken from before. In the upper part of the figure the pons Yarolii and medulla oblongata are represented, and from V to IX, the roots of the several cranial nerves from the trifacial to the hypoglossal are indicated. On. the left side C 1, is placed opposite the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve ; and the numbers 2, to 8,followingbelowindicatethecorresponding cer- vical nerves; Br, indicates the brachial plexus ; D 1, is placed opposite the intercostal part of the fiist dorsal nerve, and the numbers 2, to 12, fol- lowing mark the corresponding dorsal nerves; L 1, the first lumbar nerve, and the numbers 2, to 5, following the remaining lumbar nerves ; Cr, the anterior crural, and o, the obturator nerve ; S 1, the first sacral, and the following numbers 2, to 5, the remaining sacral nerves; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; Sc, great sciatic nerve ; x x , the filum terminate of the cord. On the right side of the figure the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerve, viz., a, the superior cervical ganglion communi- cating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below into the great sympathetic cord ; b, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglion the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; l, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; s s, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. SPINAL NERVES. The spinal nerves are characterised by their origin from the spinal cord, and their direct transmission outwards from the spinal canal in the intervals between the vertebrae. There are, in all, thirty-one pairs of these nerves, and, according to the region in which they issue from the spinal canal, they are named cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. By universal usage each pair of nerves in the dorsal, lumbar and sacral regions is named in correspondence with the vertebra below which it emerges. Of the eight pairs of nerves between the cranium and the first dorsal nerve, the uppermost is placed above the atlas, and the second and following nerves below the seven cer- vical vertebrae in succession. These591 ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. I eight pairs are usually reckoned as eight cervical nerves, but tire first is also distinguished by the name of suboccipital nerve. ' The nerves of the thirty-first pair emerge from the lower end of the sacral canal, pass below the first vertebra of the coccyx, and are named coccygeal. I Varieties.—The spinal nerves necessarily vary in number with any deviation from the usual number of the segments of the vertebral column. Sometimes an additional coccygeal nerve exists. Among seven cases which were examined with great care by Schlemm (“ Observat. Neurologic®,” Berolini, 1834) two coc- cygeal nerves were found on each side in one instance, and on one side in another case. THE ROOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. Each spinal nerve springs from the spinal cord by two roots which approach one another as they quit the spinal canal, and join in the corresponding intervertebral foramen into a single cord ; and each cord so formed separates immediately into two divisions, one of which is des- tined for parts in front of the spine, the other for parts behind it. General arrangement.—The posterior roots of the nerves are dis- tinguished from the anterior roots by their greater size, as well as by the greater thickness of the fasciculi of which they are composed. Each spinal nerve is furnished with a ganglion situated on the posterior root, but the first cervical or suboccipital nerve is in some cases without one. The size of the ganglion is in proportion to that of the nerve on which it is formed. The ganglia are in general placed in the intervertebral foramina. In A, the anterior sur- face of the specimen is shown, the anterior nerve- root of the right side being divided ; in B, a view of the right side is given ; in C, the upper surface is shown ; in D, the nerve-roots and gan- glion are shown from below : 1, anterior median fissure ; 2, posterior me- dian fissure ; 3, place of origin of the anterior nerve-roots; 4, postero- lateral groove, into which the fasciculi of the poste- rior root are seen to sink ; 5, anterior roots passing over the ganglion ; 5', in A, the anterior root divided ; 6, posterior root, the fibres of which enter 6', the ganglion ; 7, the anterior, and 7', the posterior primary division of the nerve, each of which is seen in A and D to be derived in part from the anterior and in part from the posterior root. Fig. 334. — Different VIEWS OF A PORTION OF THE SPINAL CORD FROM THE CERVICAL REGION WITH THE ROOTS OF THE nerves. Slightly en- larged. (A. T.) Fig. 334.SPINAL NERVES. 592 immediately beyond the points at which the roots perforate the dura mater lining the spinal canal. The first and second cervical nerves, how- ever, which leave the spinal canal over the laminae of the vertebrae, have their ganglia opposite those parts. The ganglia of the sacral nerves are contained in the spinal canal, that of the last nerve being occasionally at some distance from the point at which the nerve issues. The gan- glion of the coccygeal nerve is placed within the canal in the sac of dura mater, and at a variable distance from the origin of the nerve. The fibres of the posterior root of the nerve are collected into two bundles as they approach the ganglion, and the inner extremity of the oval-shaped ganglion is usually bilobate, the lobes corresponding to the two bundles of fibres. The anterior roots of the spinal nerves are smaller than the posterior, and are devoid of ganglia. Their fibres are also collected into two bundles near the intervertebral ganglion. Size.—The roots of the upper cervical nerves are smaller than those of the lower nerves, the first being much the smallest. The posterior roots of these nerves, with the exception of the first in which the an- terior root is larger than the posterior, exceed the anterior in size more than in the other spinal nerves, and they are likewise composed of fasciculi which are considerably larger than those of anterior roots. The roots of the dorsal nerves, exception being made of the first, which resembles the lowest cervical nerves and is associated with them in a part of its distribution, are of small size, and vary but slightly, or not at all, from the second to the last. The fasciculi of both roots are thinly strewed over the spinal cord, and are slender, those of the posterior exceeding in thickness those of the anterior root in only a small degree. The roots of the lower lumbar, and of the upper sacral nerves, are the largest of all the spinal nerves ; those of the lowest sacral and of the coccygeal nerve are, on the other hand, the smallest. All these nerves are crowded together upon the lower end of the cord. Of these nerves the anterior roots are the smaller, but the disproportion between the anterior and posterior roots is not so great as in the cervical nerves. Length.—The place at which the roots of the upper cervical nerves are connected with the spinal cord being nearly opposite the foramina by which they respectively leave the canal, these roots are comparatively short. But the distance between the two points referred to is gradually augmented from nerve to nerve downwards, so that the place of origin of the lower cervical nerves is the depth of at least one veretebra, and that of the lower dorsal nerves about the depth of two vertebra, above the foramina by which they respectively emerge from the canal. More- over, as the spinal cord extends no farther than the first lumbar verte- bra, the length of the roots of the lumbar, sacral and coccygeal nerves increases rapidly from nerve to nerve, and in each case may be estimated by the distance of the foramen of exit from the extremity of the cord. Owing to their length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the aggregation of the roots of the nerves last referred to has been named the cauda equina. The direction the roots take within the canal requires brief notice. The first cervical nerve is directed horizontally outwards. The roots ©f the lower cervical and dorsal nerves at first descend over the spinal cord, held in contact with it by the arachnoid, till they arrive oppositePOSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. 593 the several intervertebral foramina, where they are directed horizontally outwards. The nerves of the cauda equina run in the direction of the spinal canal. Division of the nerves.—The two roots of each of the spinal nerves unite immediately beyond the ganglion, and the trunk thus formed separates, as already mentioned, into two divisions, an anterior and a posterior, which are called primary branches or divisions, and each of which contains fibres proceeding from both the anterior and posterior roots. POSTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OP THE SPINAL NERVES. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves are, with few exceptions, smaller than those given to the fore part of the body. Springing from the trunk which results from the union of the roots of the nerve in the intervertebral foramen, or frequently by separate fasciculi from the two roots, each turns backwards at once, and soon divides into two parts, distinguished as external and internal, distributed to the muscles and the integument behind the spine. The first cervical, the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal are the only nerves the posterior divisions of which do not separate into external and internal branches. SunocciPiTATi nerve.—The posterior division of the suboccipital nerve, slightly larger than the anterior, emerges over the arch of the atlas, between this and the vertebral artery, and enters the space bounded by the larger rectus and the two oblique muscles, where it divides into branches for the surrounding muscles. (a) One branch descends to the inferior oblique, and gives a filament, through or oyer the fibres of that muscle, to join the second cervical nerve. (b) Another ascends over the rectus posticus major muscle, supplying it and the smaller rectus. (c) A third enters the superior oblique muscle. (cl) A fourth sinks into the complexus, where that muscle covers the nerve and its branches. Variety.—A cutaneous branch is occasionally given to the back of the head ; it accompanies the occipital artery, and is connected beneath the integument with the great and small occipital nerves. Cervical nerves {excepting the suboccipital). — The external branches give only muscular offsets, and are distributed to the splenius and the slender muscles prolonged to the neck from the erector spinse, viz., the cervicalis ascendens, and the transversalis colli with the trachelo-mastoid. That of the second nerve is the largest of the series of external branches of the cervical nerves, and is often united to the corresponding branch of the third. - The internal branches, larger than the external, are differently disposed at the upper and the lower parts of the neck. That of the second cervical nerve is named, from its size and destination, the great occipital, and requires separate notice. The rest are directed inwards to the spinous processes of the vertebra?. Those derived from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass over the semispinalis and beneath the complexus, VOL. I. Q QSPINAL NERVES. 594 Fig. 335.—Superficial and deep distribution of the posterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves (after Hirschfeld and Leveille). f On the left side the cutaneous branches are represented as lying upon the superficial muscles ; on the right side, these muscles having been removed, the splenius and com-595 POSTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. plexus have been divided in the neck, and the erector spin® separated and partially removed in the back, so as to expose the deep portions of the nerves. a, a, small occipital nerve from the cervical plexus ; 1, muscular branches of the first cervical nerve and union by a loop -with the second ; 2, placed on the rectus capitis posticus major, marks the great occipital nerve passing round the inferior oblique muscle and piercing the complexus ; the external branch is seen to the outside ; 2', cranial dis- tribution of the great occipital; 3, external branch of the posterior primary division of the third nerve ; 3', its internal branch, or third occipital nerve ; 4', 5', 6', 7', 8', internal branches of the several corresponding nerves on the left side ; the external branches of these nerves proceeding to muscles are displayed on the right side ; d 1 to d 6, and thence to d 12, external muscular branches of the posterior primary divisions of the twelve dorsal nerves on the right side ; d 1', to d 6', the internal cutaneous branches of the six upper ■dorsal nerves on the left side ; d 7' to d 12', cutaneous branches of the six lower dorsal nerves from the external branches ; l, l, external branches of the posterior primary branches of several lumbar nerves on the right side piercing the muscles, the lower descending over the gluteal region ; l', l', the same more superficially on the left side ; s, s, on the right side, the issue and union by loops of the posterior primary divisions of four sacral nerves •, s', s', some of these distributed to the skin on the left side. giving offsets to those muscles and to the multifidus, and, having reached the spines of the vertebral, turn transversely outwards and are distributed iu the integument over the trapezius muscle. From the cutaneous branch of the third nerve a branch passes upwards to the integument on the lower part of the occiput, lying at the inner side of the great occipital nerve, and this is sometimes called the third occipital nerve. Between the inner branches of the first three cervical nerves, beneath the complexus, there are frequently communicating fasciculi; this communication has been designated by Cruveilhier the posterior cervical plexus. The internal branches from the lowest three cervical nerves are placed beneath the scmispinalis muscle, and end in the muscular structure, without furnishing (except occasionally the sixth) any offset to the skin. These three nerves are the smallest of the series. The great occipital nerve is directed upwards across the inferior oblique muscle, and is transmitted to the surface through the complexus and trapezius muscles, giving twigs to the complexus. Ascending with the occipital artery, it divides into branches which radiate over the back of the head, the most external communicating with the small occipital nerve. Dorsal nerves.—The external brandies increase in size from above downwards. They are directed through or beneath the longis- simus dorsi to the space between that muscle and the ilio-costalis or accessorius, and supply the several divisions of the erector spinas. The lower five or six nerves give cutaneous twigs, which are transmitted to the integument in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal branches of the upper six or seven dorsal nerves appear in the interval between the multifidus spinas and the semispinalis muscle; they supply the transverso-spinales muscles, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes of the vertebras. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve, and sometimes others, extend outwards over the scapula. The internal branches of the lower dorsal nerves are placed between the multifidus spinas and longissimus dorsi, and end in the multifidus without giving branches to the integument. Where cutaneous nerves are supplied by the internal branches, there are Q q 2SPINAL NERVES. 596 generally none from the external branches of the same nerves, and vice versa. Lumbar nerves.—The external brandies enter the erector spinae7 and give filaments to the intertransverse muscles. From the upper three, cutaneous nerves are supplied ; and from the last, a fasciculus descends to the corresponding branch of the first sacral nerve. The cutaneous nerves given from the external branches of the first three lumbar nerves pierce the fleshy part of the ilio-costalis and the aponeu- rosis of the latissimus dorsi: they cross the iliac crest near the edge of the erector spinae, and terminate in the integument of the gluteal region. One or more of the filaments may be traced as far as the great tro- chanter of the femur. The internal branches wind backwards in grooves close to the articular processes of the vertebrae, and sink into the multifidus spinae muscle. Sacral nerves.—The posterior divisions of these nerves, except the last, issue from the sacrum through its posterior foramina. The first three are covered at their exit from the bone by the multifidus spinas muscle, and bifurcate like the posterior trunks of the other spinal nerves ; but the remaining two, which continue below that muscle, have a peculiar arrangement, and require separate examination. The internal branches of the first three sacral nerves are small, and are lost in the multifidus spinae muscle. The external branches of the same nerves are united with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, so as to form a series of anastomotic loops on the upper part of the sacrum. From these, branches are then directed outwards to the cutaneous or posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where, covered by the glutens maximus muscle, they form a second series of loops, and end as cutaneous nerves. The latter pierce the great gluteus muscle in the direction of a line from the posterior superior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. They are commonly two in number—one is near the lower part of the sacrum, the other by the side of the coccyx. All are directed outwards over the great gluteal muscle. In six dissections by Ellis this arrangement was found to be the most frequent. The variations to which it is liable are these :—the first nerve may not take part in the formation of the second series of loops, and the fourth may be associated with them. The posterior divisions of the last two sacral nerves are smaller than those above them, and are not divided into external and internal branches. They are connected with each other by a loop on the back of the sacrum, and the lowest is joined in a similar manner with the coccygeal nerve ; one or two filaments from these sacral nerves are distributed in the neighbourhood of the coccyx. Coccygeal nerve.—The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve is very small, and separates from the anterior primary portion of the nerve in the sacral canal. It is joined by a communicating filament from the last sacral nerve, and ends in the integument over the posterior surface of the coccyx.597 ANTERIOR DIVISIONS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. ANTERIOR PRIMARY DIVISIONS OP THE SPINAL NERVES. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves arc distributed to the parts of the body situated in front of the vertebral column, including the limbs. They are, for the most part, considerably larger than the posterior divisions. The anterior division of each spinal nerve is connected by one or two slender filaments Avith the sympathetic. Those of the cervical, lumbar, and sacral nerves form plexuses of various forms ; but those of the dorsal nei'A'es remain for the most part separate from one another. CERVICAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the four upper cciTical nerves form the cervical plexus. They appear at the side of the neck betAAreen the scalenus medius and rectus anticus major muscles. They are each united by a communicating filament to the first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, or to the cord connecting that ganglion with the second. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, larger than those of the upper four, appear between the anterior and middle scaleni muscles, and, together with the larger part of the first dorsal, go to form the brachial plexus. They are each connected by a filament with one of the two loAver cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, and Avith the plexus on the vertebral artery. The anterior dmsions of the first and second nerves require a notice separately from the description of the nerves of the cervical plexus. SUBOCCIPITAL NERVE. The anterior primary division of the first nerve runs forwards in a groove on the outer side of the upper articular process of the atlas, and bends downwards in front of the transverse process of that vertebra to join the second nerve. In this course forwards it lies beneath the vertebral artery, and on the inner side of the rectus lateralis muscle, to which it gives a branch. As it crosses the inner side of the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, the nerve is joined by a filament from the sympathetic on the vertebral artery ; and from the loop which it makes in front of the transverse process, branches are supplied to the tAvo anterior recti muscles. Short filaments connect this part of the nerve with the pneumo-gastric, the hypoglossal, and the sympathetic nen'es. Valentin notices filaments distributed to the articulation of the occipital bone •with the atlas, and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone. SECOND CERVICAL NERAIE. The anterior division of the second cervical nerve, beginning between the arches of the first tAvo vertebrae, is directed forwards betAveen their transverse processes, being placed outside the vertebral artery, and beneath the posterior intertransverse and other muscles fixed to those processes. In front of the intertransverse muscles, the nerve divides into an ascending part, which joins the first cervical nerve, and a descending part to the third.SPINAL NERVES. 593 CERVICAL PLEXUS. The cervical plexus is formed by the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves, and distributes branches to some of the muscles of the neck, and to a portion of the integument of the head, neck, and chest. It is placed opposite the first four vertebrae, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and rests against the middle scalenus muscle and the levator anguli scapulae. The disposition of the nerves in the plexus is easily recognised. Each nerve, except the first, divides into an ascending and a descending part; and these are united in communicating loops with the contiguous nerves. From the union of the second and third nerves, superficial branches are supplied to the head and neck ; and from the The nerves are separated from the spinal cord at their origin and are supposed to be viewed from before : Cl, the first cervical or sub- occipital nerve, and the lioinan numbers in succes- sion from II, to VIII, the cor- responding cervical nerves ; 1)1, the first, and II, and 111, the second and third dorsal nerves ; the origin of the posterior primary branch is shown in all the nerves ; of these p 2, indicates the great occipital from the second, and jo 3, the smallest occipital nerve from the third. Cervical plexus : 1, anterior primary branch of the first cervical nerve and loop of union with the second nerve ; 2, small occipital nerve ; 3, great auricular nerve; 3', superficial cervical nerve ; 3 n, communicating' branches to the descendens. noni from the second and. third ; 3 s, communicating to the spinal accessory from the third and fourth nerves; 4, supraclavicular nerves ; the loops or arches of com- munication between the four upper cervical nerves, and between the fourth and fifth, are shown; 4', phrenic nerve. Brachial plexus: V', to VIII', and D\ the five roots of the brachial plexus ; 5, the rhomboid nerve ; 5', suprascapular; 5", posterior thoracic ; 6, nerve to the subclavius muscle ; 7, 7, inner and outer anterior thoracic nerves ; 8, 8', 8'', sub- scapular nerves. In the larger nerves proceeding to the shoulder and arm from the plexus, those of the anterior divisions are represented of a lighter shade, those belong- ing to the posterior division darker ; ec, external cutaneous or musculo-cutaneous ; in, median ; u, ulnar ; ic, internal cutaneous ; w, nerve of Wrisberg; r, musculo-spiral ; c, circumflex ; i,i, intercostal nerves ; i', lateral branch of the same ; ih, intercosto-humeral nerve. Fig. 336. Fig. 336.— Diagrammatic OUTLIXE OF THE CERVICAL AND BRACHIAL PLEXUSES. (A. T.) ICERVICAL PLEXUS. 599 junction of the third with the fourth, arise some of the cutaneous nerves of the shoulder and chest. Muscular and communicating branches spring from the same nerves. The branches of the plexus may be separated into two sets—a superficial and deep ; the superficial consisting of those which perforate the cervical fascia and supply the integument ; the deep comprising branches which are distributed for the most part to the muscles. The superficial nerves may be subdivided into ascending and descending; the deep nerves into an internal and an external series. SUPEBI'ICIAL ASCENDING BRANCHES. Superficial cervical nerve.—This nerve takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves, turns forwards over the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle, and, after perforating the cervical fascia, divides beneath the platysma myoides into two branches, which are distributed to the anterior part of the neck. (a) The tipper branch is the larger, and gives an ascending twig which accompanies the external jugular vein, and communicates freely with the facial nerve (cervico-facial division) ; it is then transmitted through the platysma to the surface, and ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the front of the neck, filaments reaching as high as the lower maxilla. (b) The lower branch, sometimes represented by two or three smaller offsets, likewise pierces the platysma, and is distributed below the pre- ceding, its filaments extending in front as low as the sternum. Variety.—The superficial cervical nerve may arise from the plexus in the form of two or more distinct branches. Thus Valentin describes three superficial cervical nerves, which he names superior, middle, and inferior. Great auricular nerve.—Arising from the second and third cervical nerves, this branch winds round the hinder border of the sterno-mastoid, and is directed obliquely upwards between the platysma myoides muscle and the deep fascia of the neck towards the lobule of the ear. A little below the latter the nerve g;ives a few small offsets to the face, and then ends in auricular and mastoid branches. (a) The auricular branches are directed to the back of the auricle, on which they ramify, and arc connected with twigs derived from the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve. One offset reaches the outer surface of the ear by a fissure between the antihelix and the concha. A few filaments are supplied likewise to the outer part of the lobule. (b) The mastoid branch ramifies in the integument over the mastoid process, and communicates with the posterior auricular and small occipital nerves. (c) The facial branches are distributed to the integument of the face over the parotid gland. Some slender filaments penetrate into the sub- stance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. Small occipital nerve.—The small occipital nerve varies in size, and is sometimes double. It springs from the second and third (sometimes only the second) cervical nerves, and is directed almost vertically to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Havingcoo SPINAL NERVES. perforated the deep fascia near the cranium, the small occipital nerve ascends to the scalp between the ear and the great occipital nerve, and ends in cutaneous filaments which extend upwards to somewhat above the level of the ear. It communicates with branches from the great occipital, great auricular and posterior auricular nerves, and it supplies an auricular branch which is distributed to the upper part of the ear on its inner aspect. Varieties.—The small occipital nerve is sometimes directed backwards across the posterior triangle of the neck, and perforates the trapezius muscle close to its upper border, before ascending to the head. The auricular branch may be derived from the great occipital nerve when the small occipital is of less size than usual. SUPERFICIAL DESCENDING BRANCHES. Supraclavicular nerves.—The descending scries of the superficial nerves are thus named. They arise together from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and descend in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius muscles. As they approach the clavicle, they are three or more in number, and are recognized as internal, middle, and external. («) The internal branch (suprasternal), which is much smaller than the rest, ramifies over and below the inner third of the clavicle, and terminates near the sternum. (b) The middle branch (supraclavicular), generally divided into two or three parts, and crossing the clavicle in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, distributes some twigs over the fore part of the deltoid, and others over the pectoral muscle as low as the fourth rib. The latter join the small anterior cutaneous branches of some of the upper intercostal nerves. (c) The external or posterior branch (supra-acromial) is directed outwards across the clavicular attachment of the trapezius muscle, and ramifies over the acromion and in the integument of the outer and back part of the shoulder. Variety.—One of the middle branches of the supraclavicular nerves occa- sionally perforates the clavicle on its way downwards. DEEP BRANCHES : INTERNAL SERIES. Connecting branches.—The cervical plexus is connected near the base of the skull with the pneumo-gastric, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves, by means of filaments intervening between those nerves and the loop formed by the first two cervical nerves in front of the atlas (p. 597). Muscular branches.—Branches to the prcvertebral muscles proceed from the cervical nerves close to the vertebrae, including the loop between the first two of these nerves. Two branches to the ansa hypoglossi (rami communicantes noni), one from the second, the other from the third cervical nerve, descend over or under the internal jugular vein, to form a loop of communication with the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve, and aid in the supply of the infrahyoid muscles (p. 589). Phrenic nerve.—The diaphragmatic or phrenic nerve passes down through the lower part of the neck and the thorax to its destination.CERVICAL PLEXUS. 601 It arises mainly from the fourth cervical nerve, but it also receives, in the majority of instances, an additional root from either the third or the fifth nerve. While descending- in the neck, the nerve inclines Fig. 337. Fig. 337.—The superficial branches of the cervical plexus (from Sappcy after Hirschfeld and Leveille). i 1, superficial cervical nerve ; 2, its inferior branch ; 3, its superior branch ; 4, its union with the facial; 5, great auricular nerve ; 6, one of its facial branches ; 7, its branch to the lobule ; 8, twig which pierces the auricle to pass to its outer surface ; 9, branch to the deep surface of the pinna ; 10, its union with the posterior auricular of the facial nerve ; 11, small occipital nerve ; 12, its branch which unites with the great occi- pital nerve ; 13, a mastoid branch or second small occipital ; 14, twigs from this to the back of the neck ; 15, inner, 16, 17, middle, 18, outer branches of the supraclavicular nerves ; 19, branch of the cervical nerves passing into the trapezius muscle ; 20, spinal accessory distributed to the same and receiving a uniting branch from the cervical nerves ; 21, branch to the levator scapulae ; 22, trunk of the facial nerve; 23, its pos- terior auricular branch passing into the occipital and posterior and superior auricular muscles ; 24, its inframaxillary branch ; 25, great occipital nerve.SPIRAL NEEVES. 6C2 inwards over the anterior scalenus muscle ; and near the chest it is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, sometimes also by another filament given off by the branch proceeding from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves to the subclavius muscle. As it enters the thorax each phrenic nerve is placed between the sub- clavian artery and vein, and crosses over the internal mammary artery near its root. It then takes a nearly straight direction, in front of the root of the lung on each side, and along the side of the pericardium— between this and the mediastinal part of the pleura. Near the dia- phragm it divides into branches, which separately penetrate the fibres of that muscle, and then diverging from each other, are distributed on the under surface. The rigid, nerve is placed more deeply than the left, and is at first directed along the outer side of the right innominate vein and the descending vena cava. The nerve of the left side is a little longer than that of the right, in consequence of the oblique position of the pericardium round which it winds, and also because the diaphragm is lower on this than on the opposite side. This nerve crosses in front of the left vagus and the arch of the aorta before reaching the pericardium. Besides the terminal branches supplied to the diaphragm, each phrenic nerve gives filaments to the pleura and pericardium, aud receives some- times an offset from the union of the descending branch of the hypo- glossal with the cervical nerves. Luschka describes twigs from the lower part of the nerve to the peritoneum, and on the right side to the inferior cava and the right auricle of the heart. One or two filaments of the nerve of the right side join in a small ganglion with branches to the diaphragm which are derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic ; and from the ganglion twigs are given to the suprarenal capsule, the hepatic plexus, and the lower vena cava. On the left side there is a junction between the phrenic and the sym- pathetic nerves near the oesophageal and aortic openings in the diaphragm, but without the appearance of a ganglion. DEEP BRANCHES : EXTERNAL SERIES. Muscular branches.—The sterno-masteid receives a branch from the second cervical nerve. Two branches proceed from the third and fourth nerves to the levator anguli scapulae ; and from the same nerves, as they leave the spinal canal, branches are given to the middle scalenus muscle. Farther, the trapezius receives one or more considerable branches which arise from the third and fourth cervical trunks in common with the supraclavicular nerves. Connection with the spinal accessory nerve.—In the substance of the sterno-mastoid muscle, this nerve is connected with the branch of the cervical plexus furnished to that muscle. It is also connected with the branches distributed to the trapezius—the union between the nerves being beneath the muscle, and having the appearance of a plexus ; and with another branch of the cervical plexus in the interval between the two muscles. Summary of the cervical plexus.—From the cervical plexus cutaneous nerves are distributed to the side of the head, to part of the ear and face, to the anterior half or more of the neck, and to the upperBRACHIAL PLEXUS. 603 part of the trunk. The muscles supplied with nerves from the plexus are the sterno-mastoid, the trapezius, and the infra-hyoid muscles in part; the anterior and lateral recti capitis, the levator auguli scapulae, the scalenus medius, and the diaphragm. By means of its branches the plexus communicates with the pneumo-gastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal, and sympathetic nerves. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. This large plexus, from which the nerves of the upper limb are supplied, is formed by the union of the anterior trunks of the four lower cervical and the greater part of the first dorsal nerves ; aud it also receives in many cases a fasciculus from the lowest of the nerves (fourth), which go to form the cervical plexus. The plexus extends from the lower part of the neck to the axillary space, and terminates opposite the coracoid process of the scapula in large nerves for the supply of the limb. The manner in which the nerves are disposed in the plexus is liable to some variation, but the following may be regarded as the arrange- ment most frequently met with. The fifth and sixth cervical join together at the outer border of the scalenus medius to form an upper I trunk ; similarly the eighth cervical and first dorsal unite together between the scaleni muscles to form a lower trunk; while the seventh cervical remains single, forming a middle trunk. Soon after passing the outer border of the scaleni muscles, each primary trunk divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branches of the upper and middle trunks unite together to form what is called the tipper or outer cord of the plexus ; the anterior f branch of the lower trunk forms by itself the lotrer or inner cord of the plexus, and the posterior branches of all three trunks unite together to form the middle or posterior cord. The cords thus formed lie at first in a single bundle on the outer side of the first part of the axillary vessels, but lower down they are placed, one on the outer side of the axillary artery, one on the inner side, and one behind that vessel in its second part, whence they are continued into the principal nerves for the arm. Varieties.—Deviations from the arrangement above described, depending upon alterations in the level at which the several portions of the plexus separate and unite, are often met with. The seventh cervical nerve is sometimes divided into three branches, one passing to each of the three cords of the plexus. Cases are recorded in which the plexus consisted of only two cords, the larger one repre- senting either the inner and outer, or the posterior and inner cords of the normal arrangement. (See Kaufmann, " Die Variet. d. Plex. brach.,” Giessen, 1SG4 ; Turner, Nat. Hist. Rev., 1864, and Journ. Anat., 1872). An additional root from j the second dorsal nerve is of very frequent occurrence (p. 619). The fifth cervical nerve is not unfrequently, the sixth more rarely, directed outwards through the fibres of the scalenus anticus ; the fifth nerve may even pass altogether in front of that muscle. Branches.—The branches proceeding from the plexus are numerous and may be conveniently divided into two classes— viz., those that arise above the clavicle, and those that take origin below the bone. BRANCHES ABOVE THE CLAVICLE. Above the clavicle there arise from the trunks of the brachial plexus the posterior thoracic and suprascapular nerves, a nerve for the rhorn- IC04 SPINAL NEE YES. boicl muscles, another for the suhclavius, branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles, and sometimes a branch to join the phrenic nerve. Small muscular brandies.—The branches for the scaleni and longus colli muscles spring in an irregular manner from the lower cervical nerves close to their place of emergence from the intervertebral foramina. Fig. 333. Fig. 338.—Deep dissection op the axilla, showing the brachial plexus and neighbouring nerves (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). £ The clavicle has been sawn through near its sternal end, and is turned aside with the muscles attached to it ; the suhclavius and the greater and lesser pectoral muscles have been removed from the front of the axilla : I, ansa hvpoglossi; 2, pneumo-gastric; 3, phrenic, passing down to the inner side of the scalenus anticus muscle ; 4, anterior primary division of the fifth cervical nerve ; 5, 6, 7, the same of the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves ; 8, the same of the first dorsal nerve ; 9, 9, nerve to the suhclavius muscle, communicating with the phrenic nerve ; 10, posterior thoracic nerve distributed to the serratus magnus ; 11, external anterior thoracic nerve, passing into the great pectoral muscle ; 13, internal anterior thoracic, distributed to the lesser pectoral ; 14, twig of com- munication between these two nerves; 12, suprascapular nerve, passing through the suprascapular notch ; 15, upper subscapular nerve ; 16, lower subscapular nerve ; 17, long subscapular nerve ; 18, 21, small internal cutaneous nerve ; 19, union of this with the second and third intercostal nerves ; 20, lateral branch of the second intercostal; 22, internal cutaneous nerve ; 23, ulnar nerve to the inside of the axillary artery, passing behind the vein, and having, in this case, a root from the outer cord of the plexus ; 24, median nerve immediately below the place where its two roots embrace the artery, which is divided above this place ; 25, musculo-cutaneous nerve, passing into the coraco-brachialis muscle ; 26, musculo-spiral nerve, passing behind the divided axillary artery.605 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The branch for the rhomboid muscles arises from the fifth nerve, and is directed backwards to the base of the scapula through the fibres of the middle scalenus, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae to the deep sur- face of the rhomboid muscles, in which it terminates. It gives one or two branches to the levator scapulae, and sometimes a twig to the highest digitation of the serratus posticus superior (Rielander). The nerve of the subelavius muscle, of small size, arises from the front of the cord which results from the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is directed over the third part of the subclavian artery to the deep surface of the subelavius muscle. This small nerve is frequently connected with the phrenic nerve in the neck, or in the chest, by means of a slender filament. Branch to join the phrenic nerve.—This small and short branch is, when present, an offset from the fifth cervical nerve ; it joins the phrenic nerve on the anterior scalenus muscle. Fig. 339. —• Distribution of THE SUPRASCAPULAR AND CIRCUMFLEX NERVES (from Hirschfekl and Leveille). A a, scalenus medius and posti- cus muscles ; b, levator anguli scapulae ; c, acromion ; d, del- toid muscle, of which the back part has been removed; c, rhomboid muscles; f, teres major ; y, latissimus dorsi; 1, the brachial plexus, seen from behind ; 1', nerve to the rhom- boid muscles ; 2, placed on the clavicle, the suprascapular nerve; 3, its branches to the supraspina- tus muscle ; 4," branch to the infraspinatus ; 5, the circum- flex nerve, passing out of the quadrangular interval; 6, its branch to the teres minor mus- cle ; 7, branches to the deltoid ; 8, cutaneous branch. Posterior thoracic nerve.—The posterior thoracic nerve (nerve of the serratus magnus) is generally formed in the substance of the middle scalenus muscle by two roots, one from the fifth and another from the sixth nerve, and reaches the surface of the scalenus lower than the nerve of the rhomboid muscles, with which it is often connected. It descends behind the brachial plexus on the outer surface of the serratus magnus, nearly to the lower border of that muscle, supplying it with numerous branches. Suprascapular nerve.—The suprascapular nerve arises from the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth nerves, and passes outwards and backwards beneath the trapezius to the upper border of the scapula, where it enters the supraspinous fossa through the suprascapular notch, below the ligament of the same name. In the supraspinous fossa, the nerve supplies branches to the supraspinatus muscle, and a slender articular filament to the shoulder-joint ; and it then descends through the great scapular notch to the lower fossa, where it ends in the infra- spinatus muscle, furnishing sometimes a second twig to the articulation of the shoulder. Fig. 339.COG NEE YES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. Varieties.—The communicating- branch to the phrenic nerve has been seen to pass down into the thorax over the subclavian artery, and even over the vein, before joining- with the trunk. A second filament to the phrenic, from the sixth nerve, is rarely met with. The posterior thoracic nerve often gets an additional root from the seventh cervical, and Lucas has recorded three instances in which it received a fourth branch or root from the eighth cervical nerve : its highest root from the fifth cervical nerve is frequently united at its origin with the nerve to the rhomboids. The suprascapular nerve is sometimes derived entirely from the fifth cervical nerve. BRANCHES BELOW THE CLAYICLE. The several nerves now to be described are derived from the three great cords of the plexus in the following order. From the upper or outer cord,—the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous, and the outer head of the median. From the lower or inner cord,—the inner of the two anterior thoracic, the nerve of Wrisberg or small internal cutaneous, the internal cutaneous, the ulnar, and the inner head of the median. From the posterior cord,—the subscapular nerves, the circumflex, and the musculo-spiral. If the fasciculi of which the principal nerves are composed be followed through the plexus, they may be traced to those of the spinal nerves which in the subjoined table are named along with each trunk. The higher numbers refer to the cervical nerves, the unit to the dorsal nerve :— Subscapular from . . 1 Circumflex . . . > 5.G.7.8. Musculo-spiral. . . ) External cutaneous . . 5.G.7. Median .... 5.6.7.8.1. Ulnar .... Internal cutaneous Small internal cutaneous • ( outer 5.6.7. Anterior thoracic 8.1. or 7.8.1. Hi. \ inner 8.1. Anterior thoracic nerves.—The anterior thoracic nerves, two in number, supply the pectoral muscles. The external, or more superficial branch, arising from the outer cord, crosses inwards over the axillary artery, and, after giving off a branch to join the inner nerve, terminates in the great pectoral muscle. The internal, or deeper branch, springing from the inner cord, comes forwards between the axillary artery and vein, and is joined by the com- municating branch from the external nerve, with which it forms a plexi- ■ form loop embracing the axillary artery. From this loop offsets proceed to both the small and large pectoral muscles. Oubscapular nerves.—The subscapular nerves are usually three in number and supply the muscles forming the posterior wall of the axilla. The upper nerve, the smallest of the three, penetrates the upper part of the subscapularis muscle. This branch is sometimes double. The middle or long subscapular nerve is the largest of the three, and descends in company with the subscapular artery to enter the deep sur- face of the latissimus dorsi muscle. The lower subscapular nerve gives a branch to the subscapularis at its axillary border, and ends in the teres major muscle. Varieties.-—The branches to the lower part of the subscapularis and the teres major muscles are sometimes independent offsets of the brachial plexus. The nerve to the teres major is occasionally given off by the commencement of the cir- cumflex nerve.607 CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. Circumflex nerve.—The circumflex nerve, one of the terminal branches of the posterior cord of the plexus, is placed at first behind the axillary artery, resting- on the subsoapularis muscle. At the lower border of the latter it turns backwards with the posterior circumflex artery, and appears at the back of the shoulder in the quadrilateral space between the two teres muscles, external to the long head of the triceps, where it divides into branches, which are distributed to the deltoid and teres minor muscles, the integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder- joint. Fig. 340.—Distribution of the posterior cutaneous nerves of the shoulder and arm (after Ilirschfeld and Leveille). § 1, supra-acromial branches of the cervical plexus descend- ing on the deltoid muscle ; 2, ascending and 2', descending cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve ; 3, inferior external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 4, posterior cutaneous branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve to the forearm ; 5, internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral ; 6, intercosto-humeral nerve ; 7, nerve of Wrisberg; 8, 9, posterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve. (a) The upper branch winds round the surgical neck of the humerus, extending nearly as far as the anterior border of the deltoid muscle, to which it is distributed. One or two cutaneous filaments, penetrating, between the muscular fibres, are bent downwards and supply the integument over the lower part of the muscle. (b) The lower branch supplies offsets to the back part of the deltoid, and furnishes the nerve to the teres minor, which is remarkable in pre- senting a gangliform enlargement. It then turns round the posterior border of the deltoid below the middle, and ramifies in the integu- ment, over the lower two-thirds of that muscle, and over the adjacent part of the triceps muscle. (c) An articular filament for the shoulder- joint arises near the commencement of the nerve, and enters the capsular ligament below- the subscapular muscle. Internal cutaneous nerve.—At its origin from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, this nerve is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery. It becomes cutaneous about the middle of the arm, and, after perforating the fascia, or, in some cases, before doing so, is divided into two parts ; one destined for the anterior, the other for the posterior surface of the forearm. (a) The anterior branch crosses at the bend of the elbow behind (less frequently over) the median-basilic vein, and distributes filaments in front of the forearm, as far as the wrist; one of these is, in some instances, joined with a cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. (b) The posterior branch inclines obliquely downwards at the inner side of the basilic vein, and winding to the back of the limb, over the608 NEE YES OF THE LTPEB LIMB. prominence of the internal condyle of the humerus, extends to the lower part of the forearm. Above the elbow this branch is connected with the smaller internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and afterwards Fig. 341. Fig. 342. Fig. 341.—Anterior cutaneous nerves op the shoulder and arm (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Lcveille). 1, 1, supraclavicular nerves from the cervical plexus ; 2, 2, 2, cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve ; 3, 4, upper branches of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 5, upper external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral ; 6, internal cutaneous nerve piercing the deep fascia ; 7, posterior branch ; 8, communicating twig with one of the anterior branches ; 9, 10, anterior branches of this nerve, some turning round the median-basilic and ulnar veins ; 11, inusculo-cutaneous nerve descending over the median-cephalic vein; 12, lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Fig. 342.—Anterior cutaneous nerves op the forearm and hand (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveilld). t 9, 10, 13, distribution of the anterior branches of the internal cutaneous nerve; 14, union of one of these with a twig of the ulnar nerve ; 12, lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 11, 15, distribution of the external cutaneous nerve ; 16, union of one of its branches with 17, the radial nerve ; 18, palmar cutaneous branch of the median nerve; 19, 20, internal and external digital branches to the thumb from the median nerve ; 21, external digital to the index finger ; 22, 23, digital branches to the index, middle and ring fingers; 24, 25, digital branches from the ulnar nerve to the ring and little fingers.609 MUSCULO-CUTANEOTTS NERVE. communicates with the anterior portion of the internal cutaneous, and, according to Swan, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. (r) One or more branches to the integument of the arm pierce the fascia near the axilla, and reach to the elbow, or nearly so, distributing filaments outwards over the biceps muscle. These branches are often connected with the intercosto-hiuneral nerve. Small internal cutaneous nerve.—The small internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, destined for the supply of the integument of the lower half of the upper arm on the inner and posterior aspect, commonly arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus in union with the large internal cutaneous nerve. In the axilla it lies close to the axillary vein, but it soon appears on the inner side of that vessel, and communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve. It then descends along the inner side of the brachial vessels to about the middle of the arm, where it pierces the fascia, and its filaments are thence continued to the interval between the internal condyle of the humerus and the olecranon. Connection with the intercosto-humeral nerve.— This connection presents much variety in different cases :—in some, there are two or more intercommunications, forming' a kind of plexus on the posterior boundary of the axillary space ; in others, the intercosto-humeral nerve is of larger size than usual, and takes the place of the n erve of Wrisberg, only receiving in the axilla a small filament from the brachial plexus, and this small communicating filament represents in such cases the nerve of Wrisberg. Musculo-cutaneous nerve.—The musculo - cutaneous or external cutaneous nerve is deeply placed between the muscles as far as the elbow, and below that point is immediately under the integument. Arising from the brachial plexus opposite the small pectoral muscle, it perforates the coraco-brachialis, and, passing obliquely across the arm between the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles, reaches the outer side of the biceps a little above the elbow. Here it perforates the fascia, and, passing behind the median-cephalic vein, divides into two branches which supply the integument on the outer side of the forearm, one on the anterior, the other on the posterior aspect. A. Branches in the arm. («) A slender branch to the humerus is given off by the musculo- cutaneous nerve near its origin, and descends along the brachial artery, to which it supplies filaments, to enter the bone with the medullary branch of that vessel. (b) The nerve to the coraco-brachialis arises from the musculo-cutaneous trunk before it enters the muscle. (c) Branches to the biceps and brachialis anticus are given off while the nerve is between those muscles. From the nerve to the brachialis anticus a filament descends to the elbow-joint (Rudinger). B. Branches in the forearm. (a) The anterior branch descends near the radial border of the forearm. It is placed in front of the radial artery near the wrist, and distributes its terminal offsets over the ball of the thumb. One or two filaments pierce the fascia and accompany the artery to the back part of the carpus. This part of the nerve is connected above the wrist with a branch of the radial nerve. (b) The 'posterior branch is directed outwards to the back of the vol. i. r. RNERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. CIO forearm, and ramifies in the integument of the lower half, extending as far as the wrist. It communicates with a branch of the radial nerve, and with the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. Varieties.—In some cases the musculo-cutaneous nerve does not perforate the coraco-brachialis muscle. It is frequently found to communicate by a cross branch with, or to be an offset of, the median nerve ; and in the latter case, the coraco-brachialis muscle receives a separate branch from the outer cord of the brachial plexus ; such an arrangement may be explained thus,—that the main part of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, instead of piercing the coraco-brachialis muscle, remains adherent to the outer root and trunk of the median. Summary. — The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco- brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus muscles, the integument on the outer side of the forearm, the humerus, and the elbow-joint. Com- munications are established between it and the radial and the external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral. Ulnar nerve.—The ulnar nerve, the largest branch of the inner cord of the brachial plexus, descends on the inner side of the main artery of the limb as far as the middle of the arm, and thence along the back of the internal intermuscular septum with the inferior profunda artery, to the interval between the olecranon and the inner condyle of the humerus. In the arm it is covered only by the fascia, and it may be felt through the integument a little above the elbow. It next passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle, under cover of which it is continued with a straight course as far as the wrist. The nerve meets the ulnar vessels somewhat above the middle of the forearm, and from this point it remains in contact with them on their inner side. Above the wrist it gives off a large dorsal branch to the hand, and the trunk then runs over the front of the annular ligament, being placed be- tween the ulnar artery and the pisiform bone, to terminate as it enters the palm by dividing into superficial and deep parts. The ulnar nerve usually gives off no branches in the upper arm. A. Branches in the forearm. (a) Articular filaments are given to the elbow-joint as the nerve passes behind it. (b) Muscular branches arise from the nerve near the elbow, and pass to the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum muscles. (c) Cutaneous branches.—These two small nerves arise about the middle of the forearm by a common trunk. One pierces the fascia, and turning downwards, joins a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. This branch is often absent. The second, a palmar branch, lies on the ulnar artery, which it accompanies to the hand. This little nerve gives filaments around the vessel, and ramifies in the integument of the hand, joining in some cases with other cutaneous offsets of the ulnar or median nerve. (d) Dorsal branch to the hand.—This large offset, leaving the trunk of the ulnar nerve two or three inches above the wrist, winds backwards beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris and divides into branches ; one of these ramifies on the inner side of the little finger, another divides to supply the contiguous sides of that finger and the ring finger, while a third joins on the back of the metacarpus with the branch of the radial nerve which supplies the contiguous sides of the ring and middle fingers. The several611 ULNAR NERVE. Fig. 343. Fig. 344. Fig. 343. — Deep view op the anterior nerves op the shoulder and arm (from Sappej-, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). 4 1, musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 2, its twig to the eoraco-bracliialis muscle ; 3, its branch to the biceps ; 4, its branch to the brachialis anticus : 5, twig of union with the median nerve (a variety) ; 6, continuation of the nerve in its cutaneous distribution ; 7, museulo- spiral nerve in the interval between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus muscles ; 8, inferior external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral; 9, the large and small internal cutaneous nerves divided ; 10, anterior branch of the internal cutaneous ; 11, median, nerve ; to the inner side of this the ulnar nerve is crossed by the line from 11. Fig. 344.—Deep view op the anterior nerves op the forearji and hand (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). {- 12, median nerve ; 13, its branch to the pronator teres; 14, branch to the superficial flexor muscles, which have been removed ; 15, branch to the flexor profundus digitorum; 16, branch to the flexor longus pollicis ; 17, anterior interosseous nerve ; 18, palmar cutaneous branch cut short ; 19, branch to the short muscles of the thumb ; 20, 21, digital brandies to the thumb ; 22, 23, 24, third, fourth and fifth digital branches ; 25, branch given by the ulnar nerve to the flexor carpi ulnaris ; 26, branch to the flexor profundus digitorum ; 27, cutaneous twig ; 28, dorsal branch of the ulnar ; 29, superficial palmar portion ; 30, 31, digital branches to the ring and little fingers ; 32, deep palmar branch ; 33, its branch to the short muscles of the little finger ; 34, 35, 36, twigs given by the deep branch of the ulnar to the third and fourth lumbrieales, all the interosseous muscles, and the adductor with the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. R it 2G12 NERVES OF TIIE UPPER LIMB. posterior digital nerves now described are united with twigs directed backwards from the anterior digital nerves of the same fingers. B. Branches in the'palm. (a) The superficial part of the ulnar nerve supplies a twig to the palmaris brevis muscle and some filaments to the integument, and divides into two digital branches. One of these passes to the ulnar side of the little finger; the other is connected in the palm of the hand with a digital branch of the median nerve, and at the cleft between the little and ring fingers, divides into the collateral nerves for these fingers. The terminal disposition of the digital branches on the fingers is the same as that of the median nerve, to be presently described. (l) The deep part turns backwards with the deep branch of the ulnar artery between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti muscles, and follows the course of the deep palmar arch across the hand. It supplies the short muscles of the little finger as it passes between them ; as it lies over the metacarpal bones, it distributes branches to the interosseous muscles and the inner two lumbricales ; and at the outer side of the palm it terminates in offsets to the adductor pollicis, inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the abductor indicis muscles. Kudinger describes filaments ascending to the wrist, and others descending to the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Varieties.—The ulnar nerve sometimes gets an additional root from the seventh cervical nerve, or from the outer cord of the brachial plexus. When the occasional epitrochleo-anconeus muscle (p. 211) is present, it receives a branch from the ulnar nerve in the upper arm (Henle). From the same part of the nerve also small branches have been found entering the inner head of the triceps. In four instances, Gruber has seen the nerve descending in front of the inner condyle instead of behind. Zuckerkandl records cases in which the ulnar nerve slipped forwards over the internal condyle when the elbow was bent (Wiener Jahrbucher, 1880). A communicating branch from the median to the ulnar nerve in the forearm is of frequent occurrence. The ulnar nerve has also been seen furnishing one or two branches to the flexor sublimis digitorum (Turner, G. D. T.). Summary.—The ulnar nerve gives cutaneous filaments to the lower part of the forearm (to a small extent), and to the hand on its palmar and dorsal aspects. It supplies the following muscles, viz., the ulnar flexor of the carpus, the deep flexor of the fingers (its inner half), the short muscles of the little finger with the palmaris brevis, the inter- osseous muscles of the hand, the inner two lumbricales, the adductor pollicis and the inner half of the flexor brevis pollicis. Lastly, it con- tributes to the nervous supply of the joints of the elbow, wrist and hand. Median nerve.—The median nerve arises by two roots or heads, one from the outer, the other from the inner cord of the brachial plexus. Commencing by the union of these roots in front or on the outer side of the axillary artery, the nerve descends in contact with the brachial artery, gradually passing inwards over it, and near the elbow is at the inner side of the vessel. Crossing the bend of the arm, it passes beneath the pronator radii teres, separated by the deep slip of that muscle from the ulnar artery, and continues straight down the front of the forearm, between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum muscles. Arrived near the wrist it lies beneath the fascia, between the tendons of the flexor sublimis and that of the flexor carpi radialis. It then enters613 MEDIAN NERVE. the palm behind the annular ligament, and rests on the flexor tendons. Somewhat enlarged, and of a slightly reddish colour, it here separates into two parts of nearly equal size. One of these (the external) supplies some of the short muscles of the thumb, and gives digital branches to the thmnb and the index finger ; the second portion supplies the middle finger, and in part the index and ring fingers. The median nerve usually gives no branch in the upper arm. A. —Branches in the forearm. {a) Articular branches.—These are one or two filaments to the front of the elbow-joint (Riidinger). (b) Muscular branches arise either together or separately in the neigh- bourhood of the elbow and pass to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus and flexor sublimis digitorum. A second branch to the flexor sublimis is usually given off by the trunk at a lower level in the forearm. (c) Anterior interosseous nerve.—This is the longest branch of the median nerve, and it supplies the deeper muscles of the front of the forearm. Leaving the main trunk a little below the elbow, it runs downwards with the artery of the same name on the interosseous mem- brane to the deep surface of the pronator quadratus muscle, in which it ends. It distributes branches to the flexor longus pollicis and the outer half of the flexor profundus digitorum between which it lies ; other fila- ments are supplied to the interosseous membrane and the bones of the forearm (Rauber, “ Ueber die Nhrven der Knockenhaut,” &c., Miinchen, 18G8) ; and from its lower end a twig is continued to the front of the wrist- joint. (d) The palmar cutaneous branch arises a ifriable distance above the wrist, and pierces the fascia of the forearm close to the annular ligament, to terminate in the integument of the palm, where it communicates with the palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve. Some filaments are distributed over the ball of the thumb, and form communications with twigs of the radial or external cutaneous nerve. B. Branches in the hand. Fig. 345.—Distribution os' the digital nerves (from Hirsclifeld and Leveille). h 1, palmar collateral nerve ; 2, its final palmar distribution ; 3, its dorsal or ungual distribution, and between these numbers the network of terminal filaments ; 4, dorsal collateral nerve ; 5, uniting twigs pass- ing between the dorsal and palmar digital nerves. (a) Branch to muscles of the thumb.—This short nerve subdivides into branches for the abductor, the opponens, and the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis muscles. (b) Digital nerves.—These are five in number, and belong to the thumb, and the fingers as far as the outer side of the ring-finger. As they approach the clefts between the fingers, they are close to the integument in the intervals between the longitudinal divisions of the palmar fascia. The first and second nerves lie along the sides of the thumb ; and the former (the outer one) is connected with the radial nerve over the border of the thumb. The third, destined for the radial side of the index finger, gives a branch to the first or most external lumbricalis muscle. Fig. 345.NERVES OF TIIE UPPER LIME. C14 The fourth supplies the second lumbricalis, and divides into collateral branches for the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers. The fifth, the most internal of the digital nerves, is connected by a cross branch with the ulnar nerve, and divides to supply the adjacent sides of the ring and middle fingers. Each digital nerve divides at the end of the finger into two branches, one of which supplies the ball on the fore part of the finger, while the other ramifies in the pulp beneath the nail. Branches pass from each nerve forwards and backwards to the integument of the finger; those passing backwards join the dorsal collateral nerve, and supply mainly the integument over the second and third phalanges. Varieties.-—One or both heads of the median may be double, and the outer head may pass behind, instead of in front of, the axillary artery. The whole nerve is sometimes found passing- behind the brachial artery (p. -ill). Gruber and Walsh have recorded cases in which the nerve entered the forearm over the pronator teres muscle. The median nerve is often connected in the arm with the musculo-cutaneous (p. G10), in the forearm with the ulnar nerve (p. G12). Summary.—The median nerve gives cutaneous branches to the palm, and to three and a half fingers. It supplies the pronator muscles, the flexors of the carpus and the long flexors of the fingers (except the ulnar flexor of the carpus, and part of the deep flexor of the fingers), likewise the outer set of the short muscles of the thumb, and two lumbricales. A great similarity will be observed in the distribution of the median and ulnar nerves. Neither gives any offset in the arm. Together they supply all the muscles of the front of the forearm and in the hand, and together they supply the skin of the palmar surface of the hand, and impart tactile sensibility to all the fingers. Musculo-spiral nerve.—The muscnlo-spiral nerve, the largest offset from the brachial plexus, occupies chiefly the back part of the limb, and supplies nerves to the extensor muscles, as well as to the skin. Arising behind the axillary vessels from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, of which it is the principal continuation and the only branch prolonged into the arm, it soon turns backwards into the musculo-spiral groove, and, accompanied by the superior profunda artery, proceeds along that groove, between the humerus and the triceps muscle, to the outer side of the limb. It then pierces the external intermuscular septum, and descends in the interval between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus muscles to the level of the outer condyle of the humerus, where it ends by dividing into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. Of these, the radial is altogether a cutaneous nerve, while the posterior interosseous is the muscular nerve of the back of the forearm. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve may be classified according as they arise on the inner side of the humerus, behind that bone, or on the outer side. A. Internal branches. (a) Muscular branches for the inner and long heads of the triceps. That for the inner head gives two or three filaments to the upper part of the muscle, and then descends by the ulnar nerve, to which it is often closely adherent for a part of its course, and enters the lower short fibres of the head. This long filament is named by Krause the ulnar collateral branch. (b) The internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, commonly united in origin with the preceding, winds backwards beneath615 MUSCULO-SPIEAL NERVE. the intercosto-humeral nerve, and extends, supplying filaments to the skin, nearly as far as the olecranon. This nerve is accompanied by a small cutaneous artery. B. Posterior branches. These consist of a fasciculus of muscular branches which supply the outer and inner heads of the triceps muscle and the anconeus. The branch of the anconeus is slender, and remarkable for its length; it descends in the substance of the triceps to reach its destination. C. External branches. (a) Muscular branches to the supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior (the extensor carpi radialis brevior usually receiving its nerve from the posterior interosseous), and frequently a small twig to the outer part of the brachialis anticus. Fig. 346.—Dorsal cutaneous nerves of THE HAND. ^ The distribution delineated in this figure is not the most common, there being a larger branch of the ulnar nerve than usual : 1, the radial nerve descending be- side the radial vein ; 2 and 3, dorsal branches to the two sides of the thumb ; 4, branch to the radial side of the fore- finger ; 5, branch to the forefinger and middle finger, communicating with oue from the ulnar nerve ; 6, dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 7, communicating twig ; 8, digital branch to the middle and ring fingers ; 9, branch to the ring and little fingers ; 10, branch to the inner side of the hand and little finger. (b) The external cutaneous branches, two in number, arise where the nerve pierces the external intermuscular septum. The upper branch, the smaller of the two, is directed downwards to the fore part of the elbow, along the cephalic vein, and distributes filaments to the lower half of the upper arm on its outer and anterior aspect. The lower branch extends as far as the wrist, distributing offsets to the lower half of the arm, and to the forearm, on their posterior aspect, and is connected near the wrist with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve. Radial nerve.—The radial nerve, continuing straight down from the musculo-spiral, is concealed by the long supinator muscle, and lies a little to the outer side of the radial artery. This position beneath the supinator is retained to about three inches from the lower end of the radius, where the nerve turns backwards beneath the tendon of the muscle, and becomes subcutaneous. It then divides into two branches, which ramify in the integument on the dorsal aspect of the thumb and the next two fingers in the following manner.NERVES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 616 (a) The external branch passes to the radial side of the thumb, and is joined by an offset of the external cutaneous nerve. It distributes fila- ments over the ball of the thumb. (b) The internal portion communicates with a branch of the external cutaneous nerve on the back of the forearm, and divides into three digital branches ; om divides to supply the ulnar side of the thumb, and the radial side of the index finger, the second similarly supplies the adjacent sides of the index and middle fingers, while the third joins with an offset from the dorsal branch of the ulnar, and along with it forms a nerve for the supply of the contiguous sides of the middle and ring F;g. 347. Fig. 347.—View of the radial side of the forearm, SHOWING THE FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF THE MUSC1JLO- srniAL nerve (after Hirschield and Leveille). 5- Tlie supinator longus and the radial extensors have been divided, and their upper parts removed ; the extensor communis digitorum is pulled backwards, and the supi- nator brevis has been partially dissected to show the posterior interosseous nerve passing through it. 1, on the tendon of the biceps muscle, the musculo- cutaneous nerve; 1', near the wrist, the lower part of this nerve and its plexus of union with the radial nerve ; 2, trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve emerging from be- tween the brachialis anticus, on which the number is placed, and the supinator longus muscles ; 2', its muscular twigs to the long supinator and long radial extensor ; 2", the posterior interosseous nerve passing through the sub- stance of the supinator brevis ; 3, placed upon the cut lower portion of the supinator longus, and lower down, the radial nerve ; 4, the external digital nerve of the thumb ; 5, digital nerve of the forefinger and thumb ; 6, the same of the fore and middle fingers ; 7, twig of union with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 8, placed upon the common extensor of the fingers, the muscular branches of the posterior interosseous nerve to the long extensor muscles ; 9, upon the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, the branches to the short extensor muscles. fingers. These branches communicate on the sides of the fingers with the palmar digital nerves, ana their fibres do not extend beyond the base of the second phalanges, except in the case of the branches to the thumb, which supply the whole of the dorsal surface of that digit. Sometimes the interspace between the middle and ring fingers is entirely supplied by the radial, and at other times entirely by the ulnar nerve. Posterior interosseous nerve.—This nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the musculo-spiral, winds to the back of the forearm through the fibres of the supinator brevis muscle, and is prolonged between the deep and superficial layers of the extensor muscles to somewhat below the middle of the forearm, where it sinks beneath the extensor of the second phalanx of the thumb, and reaches the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane. Much diminished in size by the separation of numerous branches forDORSAL NERVES. 617 the muscles, the nerve lies at the back of the wrist beneath the tendons of the extensor indicis and the common extensor of the fingers, and forms here a small gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are given to the adjoining ligaments and articulations. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches.—Before the nerve passes to the back of the forearm it gives offsets to the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the supinator brevis muscles. After perforating the supinator brevis, it supplies branches to the extensor communis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, the three extensors of the thumb, and the extensor indicis. (b) Articular branches.—From the terminal enlargement of the nerve fine twigs proceed to the articulations of the wrist, and, according to Biidinger and Rauber, other filaments descend on the back of the hand to the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations. Varieties.—The dorsal branch of the radial nerve sometimes supplies the whole of the back of the hand and fingers. In two cases, recorded by Turner and Schwalbe, the posterior interosseous nerve passed down to supply the adja- cent sides of the index and middle fingers. Summary.—The musculo-spiral nerve distributes its branches to the extensor muscles of the elbow-joint and sometimes sends a filament to the brachialis anticus, which, however, receives its principal supply from another source. Before separating into its two large divisions, the nerve gives branches to two muscles of the forearm, viz., 'the long supinator, and the long radial extensor of the carpus. The posterior interosseous division distributes nerves to the remaining muscles on the outer and back part of the forearm, except the anconeus (previously supplied), viz., to the short supinator and the extensors. Cutaneous nerves are distributed, from the trunk of the nerve and its radial division, to the upper arm, to the forearm, and to the hand—on the posterior and outer aspect of each. DORSAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the twelve dorsal nerves are distributed almost entirely to the walls of the thorax and abdomen. The exceptions are the first, the greater part of which joins the brachial plexus, and the second and twelfth, which send cutaneous offsets to the arm and hip respectively. Close to the intervertebral foramina, these nerves are connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by very short com- municating branches ; they are then directed transversely outwards to their destination without forming any plexus, and in this respect they differ from the anterior primary divisions of the other spinal nerves. The smaller part of the first, and the trunks of the succeeding ten nerves pass forwards in the intercostal spaces, and are thence termed intercostal nerves. Of these, the upper six are confined to the parietes of the thorax, while the lower five are continued anteriorly from the intercostal spaces into the wall of the abdomen. The twelfth nerve is placed below the hist rib, and is therefore contained altogether in the abdominal wall. FIRST DORSAL NERVE. The anterior division of the first dorsal nerve divides into two parts, the larger of which ascends over the neck of the first rib to enter into the brachial plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve is continued asDORSAL NERVES. 618 Fig. 348. Fig. 348.—View of the anterior divisions of the dorsad and some op the other spinal nerves prom before (from Hirschfeld and Leveille). | Tlie pectoralis major and minor muscles have been removed ; on the right side the rectus abdominis and internal oblique muscles are shown, on the left side the anterior part of the rectus is cut away, and the transversalis is exposed. 1, median and other nerves of the brachial plexus ; 2, nerve of Wrisberg ; 3, intercosto-INTERCOSTAL NERVES. 619 humeral ; 4, intercostal nerves continued forwards to 4', their anterior cutaneous twigs ; 5, lateral cutaneous branches of these nerves ; 6, lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve ; 7, iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 8, hypogastric branch of the same ; 9, Rio-inguinal; 10, middle cutaneous of the thigh. the first intercostal, a small branch which courses along the first intercostal space, in the manner of the other intercostal nerves, but has usually no lateral cutaneous branch, ancl may also want the anterior cutaneous. Variety. —The first dorsal nerve frequently receives a connecting twig which passes upwards in front of the neck of the second rib from the second nerve. This branch was found by Cunningham in twenty-seven out of thirty-seven dis- sections ; it was of variable size, hut generally very small, and it sometimes joined only one, in other cases both, of the divisions of the first nerve (Journ. Anat., xi., 539). UPPER OR PECTORAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. In their course to the fore part of the chest, these nerves accompany the intercostal blood-vessels. After a short space they pass between the internal and external intercostal muscles, supplying them with twigs, as well as the levatores costarum and serratus posticus superior, and, about midway between the vertebrae and the sternum, they give off the lateral cutaneous branches. The nerves, greatly diminished, are now continued forwards amid the fibres of the internal intercostal muscles as far as the costal cartilages, where they come into contact with the pleura. In approaching the sternum, they cross the internal mammary artery and the fibres of the triangularis sterni muscle to which they give filaments. Finally, these nerves pierce the internal intercostal muscle and the greater pectoral, and end in the integument of the breast, receiving the name of the anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax. At the side of the chest some of the twigs occasionally cross the inner surface of the ribs, passing from one intercostal space to join the nerve in the interval next below. The lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax pierce the external intercostal and serratus magnus muscles, in a line a little behind the pectoral border of the axilla. The first intercostal usually gives no lateral branch or only a slender twig to the axilla, but when that of the second nerve is unusually small, it may be supplemented by that of the first. The branch from the second intercostal is named intercosto-humeral, and requires separate description. Each of the remaining lateral cuta- neous nerves divides into two branches, which reach the integument at a short distance from each other, and are named anterior and posterior. The anterior branches are continued forwards over the border of the great pectoral muscle. Several reach the mammary gland and the nipple ; and from the lower nerves twigs are supplied to the digitations of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The posterior branches turn backwards to the integument over the scapula and the latissimus efersi muscle. The branch from the third nerve ramifies in the axilla, and a few filaments reach the arm. The intercosto-humeral nerve, the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve, corresponds with the posterior of the two divisions of the succeeding lateral cutaneous branches, the anterior being commonly wanting. It crosses the axillary space to reach the arm, and is connected in the axilla with an offset of the nerve of Wris- berg (p. 609). Penetrating the fascia, it becomes subcutaneous, andDORSAL NERVES. S20 ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the arm, on the inner and posterior aspect; a few filaments reach the integument over the •scapula. The branches of this nerve cross over the internal cutaneous offset of the musculo-spiral, and a communication is established between the two nerves. The size of the intercosto-humeral nerve, and the extent of its distribution, are in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves of the upper arm, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the thorax, which are the terminal twigs of the intercostal nerves, are reflected outwards in the integument over the great pectoral muscle. The branch from the second nerve is connected with the supraclavicular and the lateral cutaneous nerves ; those from the third and fourth nerves are distributed over the mammary gland. LOWER OR ABDOMINAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. The lower intercostal nerves are continued from the anterior ends of the intercostal spaces, between the internal oblique and the transversalis muscles of the abdomen, to the outer edge of the rectus. Perforating the sheath, they enter the substance of that muscle, and afterwards terminate in small cutaneous branches (anterior cutaneous). They supply branches to the intercostal muscles, to the serratus posticus inferior, and to the abdominal muscles with which they are in contact. Filaments are also described as passing from these nerves to the costal liart of the diaphragm (Luschka). The lateral cutaneous nerves of the abdomen pass to the integu- ment through the external intercostal and external oblique muscles, in a line with the corresponding nerves on the thorax, and divide in the same manner into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches are the larger, and are directed inwards in the superficial fascia, with small cutaneous arteries, nearly to the edge of the rectus muscle. The posterior branches bend backwards over the latissimus dorsi. The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are uncertain in number and position. There are generally two or three twigs from each nerve, and some of them perforate the rectus near its outer border, but the greater number issue near the linea alba. LAST DORSAL NERVE. The anterior primary division of the last dorsal nerve is directed out- wards in company with the abdominal branch of the first lumbar artery along the lower border of the twelfth rib. It passes beneath the external arched ligament of the diaphragm, across the front of the quadratus lumborum, and at the outer border of the latter muscle it perforates the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis to follow a course similar to that of the lower intercostal nerves in the abdominal wall. It is con- nected near its origin with the first lumbar nerve by means of a small -cord which descends on or in the substance of the quadratus lumborum muscle. Its branches are the same as those of the lower intercostal nerves, and it sometimes communicates in the abdominal wall with the ilio-hypogastric nerve. Its anterior cutaneous twigs are distributed below a point midway between the umbilicus and the pubis.621 LUMBAR NERVES. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve, passing- through both oblique muscles, is directed downwards over the iliac crest to the integument covering the fore part of the gluteal region, some filaments reaching as far as the great trochanter of the femur. LUMBAR NERVES. The anterior divisions of the lumbar nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth ; and all, except the fifth, which passes down to join the sacral nerves, are connected together in loops, so as to form the lumbar plexus. On leaving the intervertebral foramina, the nerves are connected by filaments with the cord of the sympathetic, these filaments being longer than those connected with other spinal nerves, in consequence of the position of the lumbar sympathetic ganglia on the fore part of the bodies of the vertebrae. In the same situation small twigs are furnished to the psoas and quadratus lumborum muscles. LUMBAR PLEXUS. The lumbar plexus is formed by the communications between the anterior primary divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves. It is placed in the substance of the psoas muscle, in front of the transverse processes of the corresponding vertebra?. Above, the plexus is narrow, and is usually connected with the last dorsal nerve by a small offset from that nerve, named dorsi-lumbar ; below, it is wider, and is joined to the sacral plexus by means of a branch passing from the fourth lumbar nerve to the fifth. The arrangement of the plexus may be thus stated. The first nerve gives off the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and sends down- wards a communicating branch to the second nerve. The second furnishes-the greater part of the genito-crural and external cutaneous nerves, and gives a connecting branch to the third, from which some of the fibres of the anterior crural and obturator nerves are derived. From the third nerve two branches proceed; one of these, the larger, forms part of the anterior crural nerve ; the other, a part of the obturator nerve. The fourth nerve gives three branches, two of which serve to complete the obturator and anterior crural nerves, while the third ■ is a connecting branch to the fifth nerve, and enters into the formation of the sacral plexus. The branches of the lumbar plexus form two sets, which are dis- tributed, one to the lower part of the wall of the abdomen, the other to the fore part and inner side of the lower limb. In the former set are the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and part of the genito- crural ; and to the latter belong the remaining part of the genito-crural nerve, the external cutaneous, the obturator, and the anterior crural nerves. Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves.—These nerves are the upper two branches from the lumbar plexus ; they are both derived from the first lumbar nerve, and have a nearly similar distribution. They become subcutaneous by passing between and through the broad muscles of the abdomen, and end in the integument of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labium pudendi in the female, as well as in the integument of the gluteal region. The extent of distribution of the one is inversely proportional to that of the other.LUMBAR NERVES. 622 Fig. 349. Fig. 349.—Diagrammatic out- line OP THE LUMBAR AND SACRAL PLEXUSES WITH THE PRINCIPAL NERVES ARISING FROM THEM. (A. T.) A DXII, the divided roots nf the last dorsal nerve ; LI, to V, the roots of the five lumbar nerves ; the loops uniting the anterior primary divisions of these nerves together, and the first with the twelfth dorsal, are shown ; SI, to V, and Cl, the sacral and coccygeal nerves ; p, placed on some of the nerves marks the posterior primary divisions cut short; p, p', the plexus formed by the union of the posterior branches of the third, fourth, and fifth sacral and the coccj-geal nerves ; d, anterior division of the last dorsal nerve, from which d' the lateral cutaneous branch arises ; I, ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 1', ilio-inguinal ; 2, genito-crural ; 2', external cutaneous of the thigh ; ps, branches to the psoas muscle ; cr, anterior crural nerve; il, branches to the iliacus ; ob, obturator nerve ; ob', accessory obturator; IV', V', loop from the fourth and fifth lumbar, forming the lumbo- sacral cord ; 3, superior gluteal nerve ; sc, great sciatic nerve, continued from the sacral plexus ; 4, small sciatic nerve, rising from the plexus poste- riorly ; 4', inferior gluteal nerve ; 5, inferior pudendal ; 5', poste- rior cutaneous of the thigh and leg ; 6, 6, branch to the obtu- rator internus and gemellus su- perior ; 6', 6', branch to the gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris and hip-joint; 7, twigs to the pyriformis ; 8, pudic nerve ; 9, visceral branches ; 9', twig to the levator ani ; 10, perforating cutaneous nerve ; II, coccygeal branches. The ilio-hypogastric nerve, emerging from the upper part of the psoas muscle at the outer border, runs obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and there perforating the transverse muscle of the abdomen, gets between that muscle and the internal oblique, and divides into an iliac and a hypogastric branch. (a) The iliac branch pierces the attachment of both oblique muscles immediately above the iliac crest, and is lost in the integument over the gluteal muscles, behind the distribution of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve.623 GEXITO-CEURAL XERYE. (l) The hypogastric or abdominal branch passes on between the trans- versalis and internal oblique muscles, to both of which it supplies twigs, and is connected with the ilio-inguinal nerve near the iliac crest. It then perforates the internal oblique muscle, and, piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique a little above the external abdominal ring, is distributed to the skin of the abdomen above the pubis. The iliac branch of this nerve varies in size inversely with the lateral cutaneous branch of the twelfth dorsal, and it is sometimes altogether wanting. The hypogastric branch is not unfrequ.en.tly joined with the last dorsal nerve between the muscles, near the crest of the ilium. The ilio-inguinal nerve, smaller than the preceding, supplies the integument of the groin. Descending obliquely outwards over the quadratics lumborum, it crosses the fibres of the iliacus muscle, being placed lower down than the ilio-hypogastric : it then perforates the transverse muscle farther forwards than the ilio-hypogastric, and com- municates with that nerve between the abdominal muscles. Then piercing the internal oblique muscle, it descends in the inguinal canal, and emerging at the external abdominal ring, is distributed to the skin of the inner part of the groin, as well as to that upon the scrotum and penis in the male, or the labium pudendi in the female, communicating with the inferior pudendal nerve. In its progress this nerve furnishes branches to the internal oblique, transversalis, and pyramidalis (Ellis) muscles. Varieties.—The ilio-inguinal nerve occasionally arises from the loop connect- ing the first and second lumbar nerves. It is sometimes small, and ends near the iliac crest by joining the ilio-hypogastric nerve : in which case the latter gives off an inguinal branch having a similar course and distribution to the ilio-inguinal nerve, the place of which it supplies. Genito-crural nerve.—The genito-crural nerve belongs partly to the external genital organs and partly to the thigh. It is derived chiefly from the second lumbar nerve, but receives also a few fibres from the connecting cord between that and the first nerve. The nerve descends obliquely through the psoas muscle, and afterwards on the anterior sur- face of the muscle, towards Poupart’s ligament, dividing at a variable height into an internal or genital, and an external or crural branch. It often bifurcates close to its origin from the plexus, in which case its two branches perforate the psoas muscle in different places. (a) The genital branch (external spermatic, Schmidt) lies upon or near the external [iliac artery, and sends a filament along that vessel; then perforating the transversalis fascia (or passing through the deep abdominal ring) it traverses the inguinal canal with the spermatic cord, and is lost upon the cremaster muscle. In the female it accompanies the round ligament of the uterus. (b) The crural branch (lumbo-inguinal nerve, Schmidt) descends upon the psoas muscle beneath Poupart’s ligament into the thigh. Immediately below that ligament, and at the outer side of the femoral artery, it pierces the fascia lata, and supplies the skin on the upper part of the thigh, communicating with the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. While it is passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, some filaments are prolonged from this nerve on the femoral artery.LUMBAR NERVES. 624 Varieties.-—The genital branch is sometimes larger than usual, and replaces in part or completely the terminal ramifications of the ilio-inguinal nerve. The crural branch may be small or absent, the deficiency being supplied by the ex- ternal or middle cutaneous nerves of the thigh. External cutaneous nerve.—This nerve, arising from the loop formed between the second and third lumbar nerves, emerges from the outer border of the psoas muscle, and crosses the iliacus below the ilio- inguinal nerve, where it is placed beneath the iliac fascia. It passes Fig. 350. Fig. 350. —View from before of the anterior branches of the lumbar and sacral nerves with the plexuses (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). \ 1, lumbar part of the sympathetic cord ; 2, 2', anterior primary division of the twelfth dorsal nerve; 3, first lumbar; 4, 4', ilio-hypogastric branch of this nerve; 5, 5', ilio- inguinal branch ; 6, second lumbar nerve ; 7, T, genito-crural nerve rising from the first and second lumbar ; 8, 8', external cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 9, third lumbar nerve ; 10, fourth ; 11, fifth ; 12, lumbo-sacral cord ; 13, iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric ; 14, its abdominal branch ; 15, ilio-inguinal nerve ; 16, external cutaneous nerve of the right side passing out of the pelvis under Poupart’s ligament ; 17, 17, 17, cutaneous ramifica- tions of this nerve ; 17', the same nerve exposed on the left side ; 18, 18', genital branch of the genito-crural ; 19, 19, its crural branch on the right side ; 19', the same on the left side exposed as it descends in front of the femoral artery ; 20, 20', anterior crural nerve ; 21, 21', obturator nerve ; 22, left sacral plexus ; 23, aortic plexus of the sympa- thetic, connected with the other preaortic plexuses and the lumbar ganglia.OBTURATOR NERVE. G25 under Poupart’s ligament, and enters the thigh immediately below the anterior superior iliac spine, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch distributed to the integument of the outer side of the hip and thigh (fig. 352, 1). (a) The posterior branch perforates the fascia lata and subdivides into two or three others, which turn backwards and supply the skin upon the outer surface of the limb, from the upper border of the hip-bone nearly to the middle of the thigh. The highest among them are crossed by the cutaneous branches from the last dorsal nerve. (5) The anterior brand/, the continuation of the nerve, is at first con- tained in a canal formed in the substance of the fascia lata ; but, about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, it enters the subcutaneous fatty tissue, and is distributed along the outer part of the front of the thigh, ending near the knee. The principal offsets spring from its outer side. In some cases, this branch reaches quite down to the knee, and takes part there in the formation of the patellar plexus. Obturator nerve.—The obturator nerve is distributed mainly to the adductor muscles of the thigh, and to the hip and knee-joints. It arises from the lumbar plexus generally by three roots, proceeding from the second, third and fourth lumbar nerves, but the highest of these is not unfrequently wanting. Having emerged from the inner border of the psoas muscle, opposite to the brim of the pelvis, it runs along the side of the pelvic cavity, above the obturator vessels, as far as • the opening in the upper part of the thyroid foramen, through which it escapes from the pelvis into the thigh. In the foramen, it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch, which are separated from one another by some fibres of the obturator externus, and lower down by the short adductor muscle. A. The anterior or superficial portion communicates with the accessory obturator nerve, when that is present, and descends over the upper border of the obturator externus and in front of the adductor brevis, but behind the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. It gives branches as follows («) An articular branch to the hip-joint arises in the thyroid foramen. (b) Muscular branches are given to the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, generally also to the adductor brevis, and occasionally to the pectineus. (c) The terminal twig turns outwards upon the femoral artery, and surrounds that vessel with small filaments. (d) An offset at the lower border of the adductor longus communicates beneath the sartorius with the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve, forming a sort of plexus. B. The posterior or cleep part of the obturator nerve, having perforated the upper fibres of the obturator externus muscle, crosses behind the short adductor to the fore part of the adductor magnus, where it divides into several branches, all of which enter those muscles, excepting one which is prolonged downwards to the knee-joint. (a) The muscular branches supply the external obturator and the great adductor muscle, with the short adductor also when this muscle receives no branch from the anterior division of the nerve. (5) The articular branch for the knee rests at first on the adductor magnus, but perforates the lower fibres of that muscle, and thus reaches VOL. i. s s626 LUMBAR PLEXUS. the upper part of the popliteal space. Supported by the popliteal artery, and sending filaments around that vessel, the nerve then descends to the back of the knee-joint, and enters the articulation through the posterior ligament. (Thomson, “ London Med. and Surg. Journal,” Xo. xcv.) Varieties.— Occasional cutaneous nerve.—la Some instances the communicat- ing branch described above is larger than usual, and descends along the posterior border of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates the fascia, communicates with the internal saphenous nerve, and extends down the inner side of the limb, supplying the skin as low as the middle of the leg. hlg. 351. Fig. 351. TlIF. LUMBAR PLEXUS FROM BEFORE, WITH THE DISTRIBUTION OF some of its nerves (slightly altered from Schmidt). J «, last rib; b, quadratus lumborum limscle ; c, oblique and transverse muscles, cut near the crest of the ilium and turned down ; cl, pubis ; e, ad- ductor brevis muscle ; f, peetincus divided and turned outwards ; g, ad- ductor longus; 1, ilio-hypogastricnerve; 2, ilio-inguinal ; 3, external cutaneous ; 4, anterior crural ; 5, accessory obtu- rator ; 6, obturator, united with the ac- cessory by a loop round the pubis ; 7, genito-crural in two branches cut short near their origin ; 8, 8, lumbar portion of the gangliated sympathetic cord. When this cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve is present, the internal cutaneous branch of the interior crural nerve is small, the size of the two nerves bearing an inverse proportion to each other. Accessory obturator nerve.-—The accessory’- obturator nerve, a small and inconstant nerve, arising from the obturator nerve near its upper end, or separately from the same nerves of the plexus, descends along the inner border of the psoas muscle, over the pubic bone, and, passing behind the pectineus muscle, ends by dividing into several branches. Of these, one joins the superficial part of the obturator nerve : another penetrates the pectineus on its under surface ; while a third enters the hip-joint with the articular artery. The accessory nerve is sometimes very small, and ends in filaments which per- forate the capsule of the hip-joint. Summary.—The obturator nerve and accessory obturator give branches to the hip and knee-joints, also to the adductor muscles of the thigh, with the obturator externus, and in some cases, to the pectineus. Occasionally a cutaneous branch descends to the inner side of the thigh, and to the inner and upper part of the leg.C27 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. Anterior crural nerve.—This nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and is derived principally from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, but in part also from the second. Emerging from the outer border of the psoas muscle, near its lower part, it descends into the thigh in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and, therefore, to the outer side of the femoral blood-vessels. Below Poupart’s ligament, the nerve becomes flattened out and divides into two parts, one of which is mainly cutaneous, while the other is distributed for the most part to muscles. A. Branches in the trunk—The branches given from the anterior crural nerve within the abdomen are few and of small size. (a) The iliacus receives three or four small branches, which are directed outwards from the nerve to the fore part of the muscle. (6) The nerve of the femoral artery is a small branch which divides into numerous filaments upon the upper part of that vessel. It some- times arises lower down than usual, in the thigh. It may, on the other hand, be found to take origin above the ordinary position from the third lumbar nerve. Beck and Kauber describe a filament passing from this nerve, in company with the medullary artery, to the femur. B. Terminal branches.—From the principal or terminal divisions of the nerve the remaining branches take their rise as follows. From the superficial or anterior division cutaneous branches are given to the fore part of the thigh, and to the inner side of the leg ; they are the middle and internal cutaneous nerves. Two muscles, the sartorius and the pectineus, receive their nerves from this group. From the deep or posterior division branches proceed, to supply the extensor muscle of the knee, and also one cutaneous nerve, the internal saphenous. («) Middle cutaneous nerve.—The middle cutaneous nerve either pierces the fascia lata in two parts about four inches below Poupart’s ligament, or as one trunk which soon divides into two branches. These branches descend on the fore part of the thigh to the front and inner side of the patella. After or before the nerve has become subcutaneous, it communicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and also with the internal cutaneous. This nerve, or the outermost of its branches, frequently pierces the upper part of the sartorius muscle. (b) Interned cutaneous nerve.—The internal cutaneous nerve gives branches to the skin on the inner side of the thigh, and the upper part of the leg ; but the extent to which it reaches varies with the presence or absence of the “ occasional cutaneous” branch of the obturator nerve. Lying beneath the fascia lata, this nerve descends obliquely over the upper part of the femoral artery. It divides either in front of that vessel, or at the inner side, into two branches (one anterior, the other posterior), which pierce the fascia separately. Before dividing, this nerve gives off two or three cutaneous twigs, which accompany the upper part of the long saphenous vein. The highest of these perforates the fascia near the saphenous opening, and reaches down to the middle of the thigh. The others appear beneath the skin lower down by the side of the vein ; one, larger than the rest, passes through the fascia about the middle of the thigh, and extends to the knee. In some instances, these small branches spring directly from the anterior crural nerve, and they often communicate with each other. s s 2LUMBAR PLEXUS. 628 The anterior branch, descending in a straight line to the knee, per- forates the fascia lata in the lower part of the thigh ; it afterwards runs down near the intermuscular septum, giving oft' filaments on each side to the skin, and is finally directed over the patella to the outer side of the knee. It communicates above the joint with a branch of the long saphenous nerve ; and sometimes it takes the place of the branch usually given by the latter to the integument over the patella. Fig. 352.—Cutaneous Verves op the anterior AND INNER PART OP THE THIGH (from SappeV, after Hirschfeld and Leveille). 1, external cutaneous nerve; 2, 3, middle cuta- neous, the outer one passing through the sartorius muscle ; 4, filament to the sartorius; 5, internal cutaneous nerve ; 6, its anterior division ; 7, one of its upper branches; 8, a cutaneous twig from the nerve to the pectineus ; 9, patellar branch of the internal saphenous nerve ; 10, continuation of the saphenous down the leg. The posterior or inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, descending along the posterior border of the sartorius muscle, perforates the fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and communicates by a small branch with the internal saphenous nerve, which here descends in front of it. It gives some cutaneous fila- ments to the lower part of the thigh on the inner side, and is distributed to the skin upon the inner side of the leg. While beneath the fascia, this branch of the in- ternal cutaneous nerve joins in an inter- lacement with offsets of the obturator nerve below the middle of the thigh ; and below the knee it communicates again with branches of the saphenous nerve. (c) The branch to the wmtineiis crosses inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enters the muscle on its anterior aspect: this branch is occasionally double. (cl) The sartorius muscle receives two or three twigs which arise in common with the middle cutaneous nerve, and enter the upper part of the muscle. (e) The branch to the rectus femoris enters the posterior surface of its muscle : from this nerve, and from some of the other muscular branches, twigs are sent, in company with a branch of the external circumflex artery (p. 470) to the hip-joint. (f) The nerve to the vastus externus, of considerable size, descends with a large branch of the external circumflex artery along the anterior border of the muscle, and sometimes sends a filament to the knee- joint. (cj) Two or three branches penetrate the crureus muscle on its anteriorANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 629 surface, and from the most internal of these a filament can be traced, under cover of the anterior border of the vastus interims muscle, to the suberureus and the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. (h) The nerve of the vastus interims runs downwards with the internal saphenous nerve beneath the aponeurosis covering the femoral vessels, giving several branches to the upper part of its muscle ; it enters the latter about the middle of the thigh, and from its lower end a consider- able twig is continued to the knee-joint, in company with the deep branch of the anastomotic artery. Fig. 353. Fig. 353.—Deep nerves op the anterior and inner part of the thigh (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld ancl Leveille). | 1, anterior crural nerve ; 2, branches to the iliacus muscle ; 3, branch to the lower part of the psoas ; 4, internal and middle cutaneous nerves, divided to show the deeper branches ; 5, 6, nerves to the pectiueus ; 7, cutaneous filament from the last; 8, inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve : 9, branch to the rectus ; 10, branch to the vastus externus ; 11, branch to the vastus in- terims; 12,internal saphenous nerve; 13, its patellar branch ; 14, its continuation down the 'leg ; 15, obturator nerve ; 16, branch to the adductor longus; 17, branch to the adductor brevis ; IS, branch to the gracilis; from this a filament is prolonged downwards, to unite with the plexus formed by the union of branches from the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves ; 19, deep branch of the obturator nerve to the adductor magnus ; 20, lumbo-sacral cord; 21, its union with the first sacral nerve ; 22, 22, lumbar and sacral parts of tlie sympathetic nerve ; 23, external cutaneous nerve. (i) Internal saphenous nerve.—The in- ternal or long saphenous is the largest of the branches of the anterior crural nerve. It is deeply placed as far as the knee, but is subcutaneous in the rest of its extent, In the thigh, it accompanies the femoral vessels, lying at first to their outer side, but lower down gradually crossing over the artery, and passing beneath the same aponeurosis. When the vessels pass through the opening in the adductor magnus muscle into the popliteal space, the saphenous nerve separates from them, and is continued beneath the sartorius muscle to the inner side of the knee ; here, having first given off, as it lies near the inner condyle of the femur, a branch which is distributed over the front of the patella, it becomes subcutaneous by piercing the fascia at the lower border of the sartorius. The nerve then accompanies the saphenous vein along the inner side of the leg, and, passing in front of the inner ankle, terminates on the inner side of the metatarsal region of the foot. In the leg it is connected with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve.633 SACEAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The distribution of its brandies is as follows:— A communicating branch is given off about the middle of the thigh to join in the interlacement formed beneath the sartorius by this nerve and branches of the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. The patellar branch perforates the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata,, and spreads out over the front of the knee, where it forms, by uniting- with branches of the internal and middle (sometimes also the external) cutaneous nerves, a plexus named the patellar plexus. Numerous branches are given off from the nerve to the skin of the leg, and the larger of these turn forwards over the anterior border of the tibia. Its terminal offsets on the inner side of the foot communicate with branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Varieties.—The two branches of the middle, or of the internal, cutaneous nerve frequently arise independently from the anterior crural. The middle cutaneous- nerve sometimes leaves the trunk of the anterior crural at a higher level than usual, within the abdomen. The posterior branch of the internal cutaneous is sometimes very small or absent, its place being supplied by the obturator or the internal saphenous nerve. The anterior crural occasionally gives off the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh. The internal saphenous nerve has been seen ending at the knee, its place in the leg being taken by a branch of the internal popliteal nerve (G. H. Meyer). Summary.—The anterior crural nerve is distributed to the skin upon the fore part and inner side of the thigh, commencing below the termina- tion of the ilio-inguinal and genito-crural nerves. It furnishes also a cutaneous nerve to the inner side of the leg and foot. All the muscles on the front of the thigh receive their nerves from the anterior crural, and the iliacus and pectineus are also supplied by this nerve. Lastly, branches are given from the anterior crural nerve to the femoral artery, and to the hip and knee-joints. FIFTH LUMBAR NERVE. The anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, having received a fasciculus from the nerve next above it, descends to join the first sacral nerve, and forms part of the sacral plexus. The trunk resulting from the union of the fifth with a part of the fourth nerve is named the lumbosacral cord, and gives origin to the greater part of the superior gluteal nerve. SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES. The anterior divisions of the first four sacral nerves emerge from the spinal canal by the anterior sacral foramina, and the fifth passes out between the sacrum and coccyx. The first two sacral nerves are large, and of nearly equal size ; the others diminish rapidly, and the fifth is exceedingly slender. Like the anterior divisions of the other spinal nerves, those of the sacral nerves communicate with the sympathetic : the communicating cords are very short, as the sympathetic ganglia are close to the inner margin of the foramina of the sacrum. The first three nerves and part of the fourth contribute to form the sacral plexus. The fifth has no share in the plexus,—it ends on the back of the coccyx. As the description of the fourth and fifth sacral nerves and of the coccygeal will occupy only a short space, these three631 SACRAL PLEXUS. nerves may be noticed first, before the other nerves and the numerous branches to which they give rise are described. FOURTH SACRAL NERVE. Only one part of the anterior division of this nerve joins the sacral plexus ; the remainder, which is more than half the nerve, supplies branches to the viscera and muscles of the pelvis, and sends downwards a connecting filament to the fifth nerve. (a) The visceral branches of the fourth sacral nerve are directed for- wards to the lower part of the bladder, and communicate freely with branches from the sympathetic nerve. Offsets are distributed to the neighbouring viscera, according to the sex. They will be described with the pelvic portion of the sympathetic nerve. These branches are usually associated with others proceeding from the third sacral nerve, and they are sometimes derived entirely from the latter nerve. Occasionally one or two filaments are added from the second sacral nerve. (Z>) Of the muscular branches, one supplies the levator cmi, piercing that muscle on its pelvic surface ; another enters the coccygeus ; while a third (/minorrhoiclal or perineal branch) ends in the external sphincter muscle of the anus. The last branch, after passing either through the coccygeus, or between it and the levator ani, reaches the perineum, and gives filaments also to the integument between the anus and the coccyx. FIFTH SACRAL NERVE. The anterior branch of this, the lowest sacral nerve, comes forwards through the coccygeus muscle opposite the junction of the sacrum with the first coccygeal vertebra ; it then descends upon the coccygeus nearly to the tip of the coccyx, where it turns backwards through the fibres of that muscle, and ends in the integument upon the posterior and lateral aspect of the bone. As soon as this nerve appears in front of the coccygeus muscle (in the pelvis) it is joined by the descending filament from the fourth nerve, and lower down by the small anterior division of the coccygeal nerve. It supplies filaments to the coccygeus muscle. THE COCCYGEAL NERVE. The anterior branch of the coccygeal, or, as it is sometimes named, the sixth sacral nerve, is a very small filament. It escapes from the spinal canal by the terminal opening, pierces the sacro-sciatic ligaments and the coccygeus muscle, and, being joined upon the side of the coccyx with the fifth sacral nerve, partakes in the distribution of that nerve. The connection between the fourth and fifth sacral, and the coccygeal nerves is sometimes described as the coccygeal plexus. THE SACRAL PLEXUS. The lumbo-sacral cord (resulting as before described from the junction of the fifth and part of the fourth lumbar nerves), the anterior divisions of the first three sacral nerves, and part of the fourth unite to form this plexus. Its construction is simpler than that of the spinal nerve- plexuses already described, as the several nerves unite without much interlacement into an upper large, and a lower small, cord or band. The upper band is formed by the union of the lumbo-sacral cord with theSACRAL NERVES. 632 first and second, and tlie greater part of the third, sacral nerves, and is continued into the great sciatic nerve : the lower band, which has a more plexiform arrangement, results from the junction of the smaller Fig. 354. Fig. 354. ■— Diagrammatic OUTLINE OF THIS LUMBAR. AND SACRAL l’LEXUSES WITH THE PRINCIPAL NERVES ARISING FROM THEM. (A.T.) The references to the nerves of the lumbar plexus will be found at p. 6'2'2. IV, V', loop from the anterior primary branches of the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, forming the lumbo-sacral cord ; 3, supe- rior gluteal nerve; sc, great sciatic nerve, continued from the sacral plexus ; 4, small sciatic nerve, rising from the plexus posteriorly; 4', inferior gluteal nerve ; 5, inferior pu- dendal ; 5', posterior cutaneous of the thigh and leg ; 6, 6, branch to the obturator inter- ims and gemellus superior ; 6', 6', branch to the gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and liip-joint; 7, twigs to the pyriformis; 8, pudic nerve; 9, visceral branches ; 9', twig to the levator ani ; 10, perforating cutaneous nerve; 11, coccygeal branches. part of the third sacral nerve with the portion of the fourth nerve be- longing to the plexus, and is prolonged into the pudic nerve. The lower band is, however, in some cases joined also by a fasciculus from the second sacral nerve. To the place of union the nerves proceed in different directions, that of the upper ones being obliquely downwards, while that of the lower is nearly horizontal; and, as a consequence of this difference, they diminish in length from the first to the last. The sacral plexus rests on the anterior surface of the pyriformis muscle, opposite the side of the sacrum, and escaping through the great sacro- sciatic foramen, ends at the lower border of the pyriformis in the great sciatic and pudic nerves.SACRAL PLEXUS. 633 Branches.—In addition to the terminal offsets, viz., the great sciatic and pudic nerves, the sacral plexus gives origin to a number of collateral branches of smaller size. These are the superior gluteal, inferior gluteal, small sciatic, and perforating cutaneous nerves, and branches to the pvriformis, obturator interims, gemelli, and quadratus femoris muscles. collateral branches. Small muscular branches.—The pijriformis muscle is supplied by one or more twigs from the upper sacral nerves before they enter the plexus. The nerve of the obturator internus muscle arises from the front of the upper part of the plexus, and appears at the lower border of the pyri- formis to the inner side of the great sciatic nerve. It then turns over the ischial spine of the hip-bone with the pudic vessels, and is directed forwards through the small sacro-sciatic foramen to reach the inner sur- face of the obturator muscle. This nerve furnishes a small offset to the superior gemellus muscle. The nerve of the quadratus femoris muscle also springs from the front of the plexus, near the foregoing. Concealed at first by the great sciatic nerve, it passes beneath, the gemelli and the tendon of the a, great trochanter ; b, tensor vaginae femoris muscle ; c, tendon of the ob- turator internus muscle; cl, upper part of the vastus externus ; c, coccyx; /, gracilis muscle ; between f and cl, the adductor magnus, semitendinosus, and biceps muscles; 1, 1, upper branch of the superior gluteal nerve; 1', 1', inferior branch of the same nerve ; 1", branch of the nerve to the tensor vaginae femoris ; 2, 2, sacral plexus and great sciatic nerve ; 2', muscular twig from the plexus to the pvriformis ; 2". branch to the gemellus superior and obturator internus ; 3, small sciatic nerve ; 3', 3', placed on the upper and lower parts of the divided gluteus maximus, the branches of the inferior gluteal nerve ; 3", the cutaneous branches of the small sciatic nerve winding round the lower border of the gluteus maximus ; 4, the continuation of the small sciatic nerve as posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 4', inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic ; 5, placed on the lower part of the sacral plexus, points to the origin of the pudic nerve ; 6, its perineal division with its muscular branches ; 6', anterior or internal superficial perineal branch ; 6posterior or external superficial perineal ; + +, distribution of these nerves and the inferior pudendal on the scrotum ; 7, dorsal nerve of the penis. Fig. 355.—Branches op the sacral PLEXUS IN THE BUTTOCK (after Hirschfehl and Leveille). 4 Fig. 355. obturator internus—between those muscles and the capsule of the hip- joint,—and reaches the deep (anterior) surface of the quadratus. It gives off a branch to the inferior gemellus muscle, and another to the back part of the hip-joint. A second filament frequently passes directly from the sacral plexus to the articulation.SACEAL PLEXUS. 634 Fig. 356.—Posterior cutaneous nerves of tiie hip and thigh (after Hirschfeld and Leveilld). | a, gluteus maximus muscle, partially uncovered by the removal of a part of the fascia lata, and divided at its inferior part to show the small sciatic nerve ; b, b, fascia lata; c, d, part of the semitendinosus, biceps, and semimembranosus muscles exposed by the removal of the fascia ; c, gastrocnemius ; /, coccyx ; g, internal saphenous vein ; 1, iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; 2, lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve; 3, 3, posterior twigs of the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh ; 4, small sciatic nerve; 4', 4", its gluteal cutaneous branches ; 5, continuation of the small sciatic ; 5', 5', its inner and outer femoral cutaneous branches spreading on the fascia of the thigh ; 6, 6, its terminal branches descending on the calf of the leg ; 7, internal and external popliteal nerves, separating in the popliteal space; 8, posterior divisions of the lower sacral and coccygeal nerves ; 9, inferior pudendal nerve. Fig. 357.—Deep posterior nerves of thh hip and thigh (after Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ a, gluteus medius muscle ; b, gluteus maximus ; c, pyriformis ; </, placed on the great trochanter, points to the tendon of the obturator internus ; e, upper part of the femoral head of the biceps ; /, semitendinosus ; (j, semimembranosus ; h, gastrocnemius ; i, popliteal artery ; 1, placed on the gluteus minimus muscle, points 'to the superior gluteal nerve ; 2, 2, 2, ramifications of the inferior gluteal nerve ; 3, placed on the great sacro-sciatic ligament, points to the pudic nerve ; 3', its farther course ; 4, inferior pudendal; 5, placed on the upper divided part of the semitendinosus and biceps, pointsGLUTEAL NERVES. 635 to the divided small sciatic or posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh; 6. great sciatic nerve; 6', 6', some of its muscular branches to the hamstrings ; 7, internal popliteal nerve-; 7', its muscular or sural branches ; 8, external popliteal nerve ; 8', its external cutaneous branch ; 9, communicating tibial ; 9', communicating peroneal branch to the external saphenous nerve. Superior gluteal nerve.—The superior gluteal nerve arises from the lumbosacral cord and the first sacral nerve. It leaves the pelvis with the gluteal vessels through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, and immediately divides into two branches, which run forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, supplying those muscles and the tensor vaginae femoris. {a) The upper branch is the smaller and more superficial; it sends its offsets solely to the gluteus medius. (b) The tower branch crosses the middle of the gluteus minimus muscle with the lower branch of the gluteal artery ; it sends branches to both the gluteus medius and minimus, and generally perforates the fore part of the latter muscle to reach the deep surface of the tensor vaginae femoris, in which it ends. Variety.—The superior gluteal nerve sometimes sends a branch to the pyriformis muscle. Inferior gluteal nerve.—The inferior gluteal nerve arises from the back of the plexus, being formed of fibres which are derived from the lumbo-sacral cord, the first and second sacral nerves. ' It usually sends a branch downwards to join the commencement of the small sciatic nerve, and sometimes the two nerves are more closely connected at their origins. The inferior gluteal nerve turns backwards at the lower border ■of the pyriformis muscle, and immediately divides into a number of branches which, diverging upwards and downwards, enter the deep surface of the gluteus maximus muscle about midway between its origin and insertion. Small sciatic nerve-—The small sciatic nerve (nervus iscliiadicus minor, posterior cutaneous nerve of the thigh) is entirely a sensory nerve, supplying the integument of the lower part of the buttock, the back of the thigh, and the upper part of the back of the leg ; it also furnishes one branch to the perineum—the inferior pudendal nerve. The nerve takes its origin usually by two roots from the back of the second and third sacral nerves, and receives also a descending branch from the inferior gluteal nerve. Emerging below the pyriformis. muscle, it descends beneath the gluteus maximus muscle, resting on the great sciatic nerve, and then along the back of the thigh under cover of the fascia lata to a little beyond the knee. Here it becomes sub- cutaneous, and its terminal ramifications are distributed to the skin of the calf, one branch accompanying the short saphenous vein and forming a communication with the external saphenous nerve. Branches.—(a) The glureal cutaneous branches are two or three in number, and bend upwards over the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle, to be distributed to the skin of the lower and outer part of the gluteal region. (5) The inferior pudendal nerve turns inwards below the ischial tuberosity, giving offsets (sometimes separate branches of the nerve) to the skin of the upper and inner part of the thigh, and is continued for- wards to the outer part of the scrotum (or external labium pudendi).SACRAL PLEXUS. €36 where its terminal filaments are distributed, after forming communica- tions with the external superficial perineal nerve. (c) The femoral cutaneous branches are numerous, and arise from both sides of the nerve while it lies beneath the fascia : they supply the skin of the back of the thigh, the larger number passing to the inner side. The perforating cutaneous nerve (fig. 354, 10 ; fig. 350, 10) is a slender branch which arises from the fourth sacral nerve, and passes backwards through the great sacro-sciatic ligament ; it then turns up- wards round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and is distributed to the skin over the inner and lower part of that muscle.* TERMINAL BRANCHES. Pudic nerve.—The pudic nerve is a short plexiform trunk, which is derived from the lowest part of the sacral plexus, and distributes nerves to the perineum and external organs of generation. It arises from the third and fourth, sometimes also the second, sacral nerves, passes out of the pelvis between the pyriformis and coccygeus muscles, and then turns forwards over the ischial spine, being placed here on the inner side of the pudic vessels, to the small sacro-sciatic foramen. Having thus arrived at the hinder part of the ischio-rectal fossa, the trunk ends by dividing into the following three branches, viz., the inferior hamror- rhoidal nerve, the perineal nerve, and the dorsal nerve of the penis, or clitoris, according to the sex. («) The inferior hemorrhoidal nerve is sometimes derived separately from the sacral plexus ; it inclines inwards towards the anus and divides into numerous branches which supply the skill of the hinder part of the perineal space and the external sphincter muscle. The most anterior branches form communications with the inferior pudendal and superficial perineal nerves. (h) The perineal nerve is the largest of the three divisions of the pudic nerve. It runs forwards along the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa, being contained in a special sheath of the obturator fascia below the pudic vessels, and breaks up into superficial and deep branches. The superficial perineal nerves are two in number, external and internal. The external or posterior, which is the first to leave the perineal trunk, runs forwards along the outer side of the perineal space to the scrotum, and sometimes gives a branch to the adjacent part of the thigh. The internal or anterior branch is larger, and runs forwards nearer the middle line, dividing into long slender offsets which are distributed to the integu- ment of the scrotum. The two branches communicate freely together, and the external generally receives the connecting filaments from the inferior pudendal and inferior haemorrhoidal nerves. The superficial perineal and inferior pudendal nerves are sometimes named from their distribution long scrotal nerves. In the female, both the superficial perineal branches terminate in the external labium pudendi. The deep branches generally arise by a single trunk, and are distributed mainly to the muscles of the perineum. They supply the fore part of the * This nerve has been particularly described by Vcigt and Schwalbe. According to the latter author it is a branch of the pudic nerve, but I have generally found it arising in the manner stated in the text. (Gr.D.T.)PUDIC NERVE. C37 external sphincter and levator ani muscles, the transversus perinei, ischio- cavernosus and bulbo-cavernosus. One branch passes inwards through the Fig. 358.—Right side up the Fig. 358. INTERIOR OF THE MALE PELVIS, WITH THE PRINCIPAL NERVES displayed (after Hirschfeld and Leveille). t The left wall has been removed as far as the sacrum behind and the symphysis pubis in front; the viscera and the lower part of the right levator ani have been re- moved ; a, lower end of the aorta ; «', placed on the fifth lumbar ver- tebra, between the two common iliac arteries, of which the left is cut short ; b, right external iliac vessels ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, the divided pyriformis mnscle, close to the left auricular surface of the, sacrum ; e, bulb of the urethra covered by the bulbo- cavernosus muscle; the mem- branous part of the urethra cut short is seen passing into it ; 1, on the crest of the ilium, the external cutaneous nerve of the thigh pass- ing over the iliacus muscle ; 2, on the psoas muscle, the genito-crural nerve; 3, obturator nerve; 4, 4, on the lumbo-sacral cords ; that of the right side points to the gluteal artery cut short ; 4b superior gluteal nerve ; 5, on the right sacral plexus, points by four lines to the anterior divisions of the four upper sacral nerves, which, with the lumbo-sacral cord, form the plexus ; 5', placed on the fifth piece of the sacrum, points to the fifth sacral nerve ; 5", visceral branches from the third and fourth sacral nerves ; 6, placed on the lower part of the coccyx, below the coccygeal nerves ; 7, the nerve of the levator ani muscle : 8, inferior liannorrhoidal nerve ; 9, nerve of the obturator internus ; 10, pudic nerve ; 10', muscular branches of the perineal nerve ; 10", superficial perineal nerves, and on the scrotum the distribution of these nerves and the inferior pudendal nerve ; 11, right dorsal nerve of the penis ; 11', the nerve on the left crus penis which is cut short ; 12, small sciatic nerve ; 12', its inferior pudendal branch ; 13, on the transverse process of the fifth lum- bar vertebra, the lowest lumbar sympathetic ganglion ; 14, on the first piece of the sacrum, the upper sacral sympathetic ganglia ; between 14 and 6, are seen the remaining ganglia and sympathetic nervous cords, as well as their union with the sacral and coc- cygeal nerves, and at 6, the lowest ganglion or ganglion impar. bulbo-cavernosus muscle, and divides into slender filaments which pene- trate the corpus spongiosum and reach the mucous membrane of the urethra. (c) The dorsal nerve of the penis is the deepest branch of the pudic nerve, and accompanies the pudic artery in its course through the deep perineal fascia (pp. 335 and 457), and between the layers of the suspensory ligament to the dorsum of the penis, along which it passes as far as the glaus, where it divides into filaments for the supply of that part. While passing through the deep perineal fascia, it gives fine twigs for the supply of the constrictor urethrae muscle ; and on the dorsum of the penis, it is joined by branches of the sympathetic system, and sends outwards numerous offsets to the integument on the upper surface and sides of that organ. Some filaments also penetrate the corpus cavernosum.NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 633 Iii tlic female tlie dorsal nerve of the clitoris is much smaller than the corresponding branch in the male ; it is similarly distributed. Fig. 359. Fig. 359.—Dissection of the perineum of the male to show the distribution of the pudic and other nerves (after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). £ On the right side a part of the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-seiatic liga- ment have been removed : 1, great sciatic nerve of the right side ; 2, 2', on the right side, inferior gluteal nerve ; 2", on the left side, gluteal cutaneous branches of the small -sciatic; 3, small sciatic nerve in the thigh; 4, 4, inferior pudendal nerve; 4', network of this and the superficial perineal nerves on the scrotum ; 5, right pudic nerve; 6, superior branch or dorsal nerve to the penis ; 7, external superficial perineal branch ; 7', internal superficial perineal branch; 8, deep or musculo-bulbal branches; 9, inferior hiemorrhoidal nerve; 10, perforating cutaneous nerve. Summary.—The pudic nerve supplies the skin and muscles of the perineum, the penis, and part of the scrotum in the male : and the clitoris, labia, and other corresponding parts in the female. It com- municates with the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve. Great sciatic nerve.—The great sciatic nerve (nervus ischiadicus major), the largest nerve in the body, supplies the muscles at the back of the thigh, and by the branches continued from it gives nerves to all the muscles below the knee and to the greater part of the integument of the leg and foot. The several joints of the lower limb receive filaments from it and its branches. This large nerve is the continuation of the main part of the sacral plexus. It extends from the lower border of the pyriformis muscle to somewhat below the middle of the thigh, where it separates into two large divisions, named the infernal and external popliteal nerves. At first it lies in the hollow between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity, covered by the gluteus maximus and resting on the gemelli, obturator interims, and quadratus femoris muscles, in company with the small sciatic nerve and the sciatic artery, and receiving from that artery a branch which runsINTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. C39 for some distance in its substance. Lower down it rests on the adductor magnus, and is covered behind by the long head of the biceps muscle. Branches.—In its course downwards, the great sciatic nerve supplies offsets to the hamstring muscles, viz., the semitendinosus, two heads of the biceps, and semimembranosus. A branch is likewise given to the inner part of the adductor magnus. Varieties.—Tlie bifurcation of the sciatic nerve may take place at any point intermediate between the sacral plexus and the lower part of the thigh ; and, occasionally, it is found to occur even within the pelvis, a portion of the pyriformis muscle being interposed between the two great divisions of the Pig. 360.— Posterior cutaneous nerves op the leg Fig. 360. (from Sappey, after Hirschfekl and Levcillc). 1, internal popliteal nerve ; 2, branch to the inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle ; 3, 4, branches to the outer head and plantaris ; 5, tibial communicating nerve ; 6, external popliteal nerve ; 7, cutaneous branch ; 8, peroneal communicating branch, descending to unite ■with that from the internal popliteal in 9, the external saphenous nerve ; 10, calcaneal branch from this nerve ; 11, calcaneal and plantar cutaneous branches from the posterior tibial nerve; 12, internal saphenous nerve ; 13, posterior branches of this nerve. Internal popliteal nerve.—The internal popliteal, the larger of the two divisions of the great sciatic nerve, following the same direction as the parent trunk, continues along the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, beyond which point the continuation of the trunk receives the name of posterior tibial. The internal popliteal nerve lies at first at a considerable distance from the popliteal artery, at the outer side and nearer to the surface; but, from the knee-joint downwards, the nerve, continuing a straight course, is close behind the artery, and then crosses it rather to the inner side. Branches.—The internal popliteal nerve supplies branches to the knee-joint and to the muscles of the calf of the leg, and also part of a cutaneous branch, the external or short saphenous nerve. («.) The articular branches are given off from the upper part of the popliteal trunk, and are generally three in number ; two of them accompany the upper and lower arti- cular arteries of the inner side of the knee-joint, the third follows the middle or azygos artery. These nerves pierce the ligamentous tissue of the joint. The upper one is often wanting. (}>) The muscular branches arise from the nerve while it is contained in the popliteal space. They include two nerves to the gastrocnemius— one to each head of the muscle ; a small nerve to the plantaris, derived.NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. CIO either from the branch to the outer head of the gastrocnemius, or directly from the main trunk ; a considerable branch to the soleus, which enters the muscle on its posterior aspect, close to the upper border ; and a nerve to the popliteus. The last branch arises somewhat lower down, and is moi’e deeply placed, than the others ; it descends on the outer side of the popliteal vessels, and, after having given off one filament to the tibia and another to the interosseous membrane, turns beneath the lower border of the muscle, which it penetrates on the deep or anterior surface. (c) The cutaneous branch.—External or short saphenous nerve.—The cutaneous branch of the internal popliteal nerve (tibial communicatinrj nerve) descends along the leg, in the furrow between the heads of the- gastrocnemius muscle, to about midway between the knee and the foot. Here it perforates the fascia, and a little lower down is usually joined by a branch from the external popliteal nerve (peroneal communicating). After receiving this communicating branch, the external saphenous nerve descends beneath the integument near the outer side of the tendo Achillis in company with the short saphenous vein, and turns forwards beneath the external malleolus to end in the skin on the outer side of the foot and little toe. On the dorsum of the foot this nerve communi- cates with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Varieties.—In many cases, the external saphenous nerve supplies the outer- side of the fourth toe, as well as the little toe. The union between the tibial communicating nerve and the branch of the external pojiliteal nerve occurs in some cases higher than usual, occasionally even at or close to the popliteal space. It sometimes happens that the communication between the nerves is altogether- wanting ; in which case the cutaneous nerve to the foot is generally continued, from the branch of the internal popliteal nerve. Posterior tibial nerve.—The internal popliteal nerve receives the- name of posterior tibial at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle. It passes down the leg with the posterior tibial artery, lying for a short distance on the inner side of the vessel and afterwards on the outer- side, the artery inclining inwards from its origin while the nerve takes a straighter course. In the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, it divides into the two plantar nerves (internal and external). The posterior tibial nerve, like the accompanying vessels, is covered at first by the muscles of the calf of the leg, afterwards only by the integu- ment and fascia, and it rests upon the deep-seated muscles. Branches.—The deep muscles on the back of the leg, the integument of the sole of the foot, and the ankle-joint receive branches from the posterior tibial nerve in its course along the leg. («) The muscular branches emanate from the upper part of the nerve, either separately or by a common trunk ; one is distributed to each of the deep muscles, viz., the tibialis posticus, the flexor longns digitorum, and the flexor longns hallucis ; and a second nerve is furnished to the- soleus, piercing the deep surface of the muscle. The branch which sup- plies the flexor of the great toe runs along the peroneal artery before entering the muscle, and gives off a twig to the fibula. (b) A cciIcaneo-plantar cutaneous branch is furnished from the posterior tibial nerve in the lower part of the leg ; it perforates the internal annular ligament, and ramifies in the integument at the inner side of the hinder part of the sole, and over the heel. (<") One or two articular filaments pass from the posterior tibialVOL. i. T 1- PLANTAR NERVES. C41 nerve close above its division to the inner side of the ankle-joint (Riidinger). Internal plantar nerve.—The internal plantar, the larger of the two nerves to the sole of the foot into which the posterior tibial divides, accompanies the internal or smaller plantar artery, and supplies nerves to both sides of the inner three toes, and to one side of the fourth. From the point at which it separates from the posterior tibial nerve, it is directed forwards under cover of the first part of the abductor of the great toe ; then passing between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, it gives otf the internal collateral branch for the great toe, and divides opposite the middle of the foot into three digital branches. The outermost of these branches communicates with the external plantar nerve. The distribution of this nerve in the foot closely resembles that of the median nerve in the hand. Branches. — («) Muscular branches are supplied to the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum. (b) Small y?lantar cutaneous branches perforate the plantar fascia to ramify in the integument of the sole of the foot. (c) The digital branches are named numerically from within outwards : the outer three pass from under cover of the plantar fascia near the clefts between the toes. The first or innermost branch continues single, but the other three bifurcate to supply the adjacent sides of two toes. They are distributed as follows :— The first digital branch is destined for the inner side of the great toe : it becomes subcutaneous farther back than the others, and sends off a branch to the flexor brevis hallucis muscle. The second branch, having reached the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, furnishes a small twig to the first lumbricalis muscle, and bifurcates behind the cleft between the great toe and the second to supply their contiguous sides. The third digital branch, corresponding with the second interosseous space, gives a slender filament to the second lumbricalis muscle, and divides in a manner similar to that of the second branch into two offsets for the sides of the second and third toes. The fourth digital branch, distributed to the adjacent sides of the third and fourth toes, receives a communicating branch from the external plantar nerve. Along the sides of the toes, cutaneous and articular filaments are given from these digital nerves ; and, opposite the ungual phalanx, each sends a dorsal branch to the pulp beneath the nail, and then runs on to the ball of the toe, where it is distributed like the nerves of the fingers. External plantar nerve.—The external plantar nerve completes the supply of digital nerves to the toes, furnishing branches to the little toe and half the fourth ; it also gives a deep branch of con- siderable size, which is distributed to several of the short muscles in the sole of the foot. There is thus a great resemblance between the distribution of this nerve in the foot and that of the ulnar nerve in the hand. The external plantar nerve runs obliquely forwards towards the outer side of the foot, along with the external plantar artery, between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius, as far as the interval between the former muscle and the abductor of the little toe. Here it642 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. divides into a superficial and a deep branch, having previously furnished offsets to the flexor accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti. (a) The superficial portion separates into two digital branches, which have the same general arrangement as the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve. The outermost of these is undivided, and runs along the Fig. 361.—Superficial and deep distribution of the plantar nerves (after Hirschfeld and Le- veills, slightly modified). (A. T.) J The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor hallucis and abductor minimi digiti, a part of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the lumbricales muscles, have been removed so as to bring into view the transversus and interosseous muscles in the middle of the foot. a, upon the posterior extremity of the flexor brevis digitorum, near which, descending over the heel, are seen ramifications of the calcaneal branch of the posterior tibial nerve ; b, abductor hallucis ; c, tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, divided close to the place where it is joined by the flexor accessorius ; d, abductor minimi digiti ; e, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis between the two portions of the flexor brevis hallucis ; 1, internal plantar nerve giving twigs to the abductor hallucis, and 1', a branch to the flexor brevis digitorum, cut short ; 2, inner branch of the internal plantar nerve, giving branches to the flexor brevis hallucis, and forming 2', the internal collateral nerve of the great toe ; 3, continuation of the internal plantar nerve, dividing into three branches, which form, 3', 3', 3', the plantar digital nerves of the first and second, second and third, and third and fourth toes ; 4, external plantar nerve ; 4', its branch to the abductor minimi digiti ; 5, twig of union between the plantar nerves ; 6, superficial branch of the ex- ternal plantar nerve, dividing into 6', 6', the collateral digital nerves of the fourth and fifth toes and the external nerve of the fifth ; 7, deep branch of the external plantar nerve. outer side of the little toe : it is smaller than the other, and pierces the plantar fascia farther back. The short flexor muscle of the little toe, and sometimes one or both of the interosseous muscles of the fourth space, receive branches from this nerve. The larger digital branch communicates with an offset from the internal plantar nerve, and bifurcates near the cleft between the fourth and fifth toes to supply one side of each. (■b) The deep or muscular part of the external plantar nerve dips into the sole of the foot with the external plantar artery, under cover of the tendons of the flexor muscles and the accessorius, and terminates in numerous branches for the following muscles:—all the interosseous (dorsal and plantar) except occasionally one or both of those in the fourth space, the two outer lumbricales, the adductor hallucis and the trans- versus pedis. Summary of the internal popliteal nerve.—This nerve sup- plies all the muscles of the back of the leg and sole of the foot, and the integument of the plantar aspect of the toes, the sole of the foot, and in part that of the lower half of the back of the leg. External popliteal or peroneal nerve.—This nerve descends Fig. 361.EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. 643 obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, lying close to the biceps muscle. Continuing downwards over the outer part of the gas- trocnemius muscle (between it and the biceps) and below the head of the fibula, the nerve turns round that bone, passing between it and the peroneus longus muscle, and then divides into the anterior tibial and the musculo-cutaneous nerves. Branches.—Some articular and cutaneous branches are derived from the external popliteal nerve before its final division. (a) The articular branches are conducted to the outer side of the cap- sular ligament of the knee-joint by the upper and lower articular arteries of that side. They sometimes arise together, and the upper one occasionally springs from the great sciatic nerve before the bifurcation. From the place of division of the external popliteal nerve, a branch called the recurrent articular nerv Fig. 362.—Cutaneous nerves of the OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG AND FOOT (from Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leyeille). J 1, external popliteal nerve; 2, its cutaneous branch ; 3, peroneal communi- cating branch which unites with 4, the tibial communicating, in 5, the external ■saphenous nerve ; 6, calcaneal branch of the external saphenous; .7, external dorsal digital brancli to the fifth toe ; 8, dorsal digital branch of the fourth and fifth toes ; 9, 9, musculo-cutaneous nerve; 10, 10, its two divisions: 11, union with the external saphenous ; 12, communication between its outer and inner branches ; 13, anterior tibial nerve, shown by the removal of a part of the muscles; 14, its inner terminal branch, emerging in the space between the first and second toes, where it gives the collateral dorsal digital branches to their adjacent sides; 15, recurrent ar- ticular nerve. with the anterior tibial recur- rent artery; its fibres terminate mainly in that muscle, but one or two filaments may reach the fore part of the knee-joint. (b) The cutaneous branches, generally two in number, supply the skin on the back part and outer side of the leg. The iieroneal or fibular commu- nicating branch, which usually joins the short saphenous nerve below the middle of the back of the leg, is the largest of these nerves. In some instances, it continues as filaments reach down to the heel or ascends through the tibialis anticus Fig. 362. a separate branch, and its cutaneous on to the outer side of the foot. T T 2G44 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Another cutaneous branch, often arising in conjunction with the foregoing, extends along the outer side of the leg to the middle or lower part, sending offsets both backwards and forwards. Musculo - cutaneous nerve.—The musculo-cutaneous nerve de- scends between the peronei muscles and the long extensor of the toes, and reaches the surface by perforating the fascia in the lower part of the leg on the anterior aspect. It then divides into two branches, distinguished as external and internal, which proceed to the toes. The two branches sometimes perforate the fascia at different spots. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches are given to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis. (b) Cutaneous branches given off near the primary division are distributed to the lower part of the leg. (c) The internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, passing- forwards along the dorsum of the foot, furnishes one branch to the inner- side of the great toe, and another to the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. It also gives offsets which extend over the inner ankle and side of the foot. This nerve communicates with the long saphenous nerve on the inner side of the foot, and with the anterior tibial nerve between the first and second toes. (d) The external branch, smaller than the internal, descends over the foot towards the fourth toe, which, together with the continguous borders of the third and fifth toes, it supplies with branches. Cutaneous nerves, derived from this branch, spi-ead over the outer ankle and the outer side of the foot, where they are connected with the short saphenous nerve. The dorsal digital nerves are continued on to the last phalanges of the toes. The number of toes supplied by each of the two divisions of the musculo-cutaneous nerve is liable to vary; together, these nerves commonly supply all the toes on the dorsal aspect, excepting the outer side of the little toe, which receives a branch from the short saphenous nerve, and the adjacent sides of the great toe and the second toe, to which the anterior tibial nerve is distributed : with this latter branch, however, it generally communicates. Anterior tibial nerve.—The anterior tibial nerve, commenc- ing between the fibula and the peroneus longus, inclines obliquely beneath the long extensor of the toes to the fore part of the inter- osseous membrane, and there comes into contact with the anterior tibial vessels ; with these vessels it descends to the front of the ankle- joint, where it divides into an external and an internal branch. The nerve reaches the anterior tibial artery about the junction of the upper with the second fourth of the leg, and is thence placed in front of the vessels as far as the ankle, at which spot it is usually on their outer side. Branches.—(a) Muscular branches.—In its course along the leg, the anterior tibial nerve gives offsets to the adjacent muscles, namely, the tibialis anticus, the extensor longus digitorum, the extensor proprius hallucis, and the peroneus tertius. (b) An articular filament for the ankle-joint arises from the lower part of the nerve. (c) The external branch of the anterior tibial nerve turns outwards over the tarsus beneath the short extensor of the toes ; and, havingANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. G45 "become enlarged (like the posterior interosseous nerve on the wrist) breaks up into branches which supply the short extensor muscle, and the articulations of the foot. (<7) The internal branch, continuing onwards in the direction of the anterior tibial nerve, accompanies the dorsal artery of the foot to the first interosseous space, and ends in two branches, which supply the integu- Fig. 363.—Distribution' of the branches of the EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE ON THE FRONT OF THE leg and dorsum of the foot (after Hirschfeld ancl LeveilR). £ The upper part of the penmens longus muscle has Been removed, the tibialis anticus, the long extensor of the great toe and the peroneus longus are drawn apart in the leg by hooks marked a, b, and c, and the tendons of the extensor muscles have been removed on the dor- sum of the foot : 1, external popliteal or peroneal nerve, winding round the outer part of the fibula; 1', its re- current articular branches exposed by the dissection of the upper part of the tibialis anticus muscle ; 2, 2, musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 2', 2', twigs to the long and short; peroneal muscles ; 3, 3) internal branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 4, 4', 4', its external branch ; 5, external saphenous nerve, uniting at two places with the outer branch of the musculo-cutaneous ; 5', its branch to the outer side of the fifth toe ; 6, placed on the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, marks the anterior tibial nerve passing beneath the muscle ; <5, placed farther down on the tendon of the tibialis anticus, points to the nerve as it lies in front of the anterior tibial artery ; 6', 6', its muscular branches in the leg ; 6", on the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, points to the anterior tibial nerve after it has passed into the foot behind that tendon; 7, its inner branch, uniting with a twig of the musculo-cutaneous, and giving the dorsal digital nerves to the adjacent sides of the first and second toes ; 8, distribution of its outer branch to the extensor brevis digitorum and tarsal articulations. menfc on the neighbouring sides of the great toe and the second toe on their dorsal aspect. It communicates with the internal division of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. From the internal branch one, and from the external two or three, slender interosseous branches are sent forwards over the inter- Fig. 363. metatarsal spaces to the metatarso-phalangeal articulations. The second and sometimes the first of these nerves give twigs to the dorsal inter- osseous muscles upou which they lie. (Eudinger; Cunningham, Journ. Anat., xiii., 31)8.) Summary of the external popliteal nerve.—This nerve sup- plies, besides articular branches to the knee, ankle, and foot, the peronei muscles and the extensor muscles of the foot, also the integument of the front of the leg and dorsum of the foot. It gives the peroneal commu- nicating branch to the short saphenous nerve, and communicates with, the long saphenous nerve.CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 616 SYNOPSIS OP THE CUTANEOUS DISTRIBUTION OP THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. 1. In the head.—The face and head in front of the ear are supplied with sensory nerves from the fifth cranial nerve. The ophthalmic division supplies branches to the forehead, upper eyelid, and clorsum of the nose. The superior maxillary division supplies the cheek, side of the nose, upper lip, lower eyelid, and the region behind the eye, over the temporal fascia. The inferior maxillary division supplies the chin and lower lip, the pinna of the ear on its outer side, and the integument in front of the ear and upwards on the side of the head. The head behind the car is mainly supplied by the great occipital branch of the posterior division of the second spinal nerve, but above the occipital protuberance there is also distributed the branch from the posterior division of the third spinal nerve ; and in front of the area of the great occipital nerve is a space supplied by anterior divisions of spinal nerves, viz., the back of the pinna of the ear, together with the integument behind, and that in front over the parotid gland, which are supplied by the great auricular nerve ; while between the area of this nerve and the great occipital the small occipital nerve intervenes. The auricular branch of the pneumo-gastric nerve also is distributed on the back of the car. 2. In the trunk.—The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves supply an area extending on the back from the vertex of the skull to the buttock. This area is narrow in the neck ; it is expanded in the dorsal region, extending over the back of the scapula; and on the buttock the dis- tribution of the lumbar nerves reaches to the great trochanter. The area supplied by the cervical plexus, besides extending upwards, as already mentioned, on the lateral part of the skull, stretches over the front and sides of the neck, and the upper part of the shoulder and breast. The area of the anterior divisions of the dorsal and first lumbar nerves meets superiorly with that of the cervical plexus, and posteriorly with that of the posterior divisions of the dorsal and lumbar nerves. It passes down over the haunch and along by the outer part of Poupart’s ligament, and includes part of the scrotum and a small portion of the integument of the thigh internal to the saphenous opening. The perineum and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve ; the scrotum by branches of the pudic, inferior pudendal, and ilio-inguinal nerves. 3. In the upper limb.—-The shoulder, supplied superiorly by the cervical plexus, receives its cutaneous nerves interiorly, as far as the insertion of the deltoid, from the circumflex nerve. The arm internally is supplied by the intercosto-humcral nerve and the nerve of Wrisberg. The inner and anterior part is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve ; and the posterior and outer parts by the internal and external branches of the musculo-spiral nerve. The forearm, anteriorly and on the outer side, is supplied by the external cutaneous ; on its outer and posterior aspect, superiorly by the lower external cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, and interiorly by the radial branch of the same nerve. On the inner side, both in front and behind, is the internal cutaneous nerve, and interiorly are branches of the ulnar. On the bach of the hand are the radial and ulnar nerves, the radialCUTANEOUS AND MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION. 017 supplying about three lingers and a half or less, and the ulnar one and a half or more. On the front of the hand, the median nerve supplies three fingers and a half, and the ulnar one and a half. In the palm is a branch of the median, and also a branch of the ulnar, given off above the wrist. On the ball of the thumb are branches of the musculo-cutaneous, median, and radial nerves. 4. In the lower limb.—The buttoch is supplied from above by the cutaneous branches of the posterior divisions of the lumbar nerves, with the ilio-hypogastric and lateral branch of the last dorsal nerves ; internally by the posterior di visions of the sacral nerves ; externally by the posterior branch of the external cutaneous nerve proceeding from tiic front; and interiorly by the perforating cutaneous nerve and branches of the small sciatic nerve proceeding from below. The thigh is supplied externally by the external. cutaneous nerve from the lumbar plexus ; posteriorly, and in the upper half of its inner aspect, by the small sciatic ; anteriorly, and in the lower half of the inner aspect, by the middle and internal cutaneous of the anterior crural, the latter being frequently assisted by the obturator nerve. The leg is supplied posteriorly by the small sciatic and short saphenous nerves ; internally by the long saphenous and branches of the internal cutaneous of the thigh (or obturator); and outside and in front by cuta- neous branches of the external popliteal nerve and by its musculo-cuta- neous branch. On the dorsum of the foot are the branches of the musculo-cutaneous, supplying all the toes with the exception of the adjacent sides of the first and second, which are supplied by the anterior tibial, and the outer side of the little toe, which, with the outer margin of the foot, is supplied by the short saphenous nerve. The long saphenous is the cutaneous nerve of the inner side of the foot. The sole of the foot is supplied by the plantar nerves. The internal plantar nerve gives branches to three toes and a half; the external to the remaining one toe and a half. SYNOPSIS OF THE MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION OF THE CEREBRO- SPINAL NERVES. 1. To muscles of the head and fore part of the neck.—The muscles of the orbit are mostly supplied by the third cranial nerve—the superior division of that nerve being distributed to the levator palpebrte and the superior rectus muscles ; and the inferior division to the inferior and internal recti and the inferior oblique. The superior oblique muscle is supplied by the fourth nerve, the external rectus by the sixth ; while the tensor tarsi has no special nerve apart from those of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum, which are derived from the facial. The superficial muscles of the face and scalp, which are associated in their action as a group of muscles of expression, together with the buccinator muscle, are supplied by the seventh cranial nerve; the retrahens auriculam and occipitalis muscles being supplied by its posterior auricular branch. The deep muscles of the face employed in mastication, viz., the temporal, masseter, and two pterygoid muscles, are supplied by the inferior max- illary division of the fifth cranial nerve.CEKEBRO-SPINAL NERVES. G48 Muscles above the hyoid bone.—The mylo-hyoid muscle and anterior belly of the digastric are supplied by a special branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth cranial nerve ; the posterior belly of the digastric muscle and the stylo-hyoid are supplied by branches of the facial. The genio-hyoid and the muscles of the tongue receive their nervous supply from the hypoglossal nerve. The muscles ascending to the hyoid bone and larynx, viz., the sterno- hyoid, omo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid, are supplied from the descending branch of the hypoglossal nerve and its loop with the cervical plexus, while the thyro-hyoid muscle receives a separate twig from the twelfth nerve. The larynx, pharynx, and soft palate.—The crico-thyroid muscle is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the pneumo-gastrie nerve, and the other intrinsic muscles of the larynx by the recurrent laryngeal. The muscles of the pharynx are supplied principally by the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastrie ; the stylo-pharyngeus, however, is sup- plied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Of the muscles of the soft palate unconnected with the tongue or pharynx, the tensor palati receives its nerve from the otic ganglion (which also supplies the tensor tympani) ; the levator palati gets a twig from the posterior palatine branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion (Meckel), and is therefore innervated by the facial, while the azygos uvulae is probably supplied from the same source. 2. To muscles belonging exclusively to the trunk, and muscles ascending to the skull.—All those muscles of the bade, which act upon the spine and head, viz., the splenius, complexus, erector spinas, and the muscles more deeply placed, receive their supply from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves. The sterno-mastoid is supplied by the spinal accessory nerve and a twig of the cervical plexus coming from the second cervical nerve. The rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by twigs from the upper cervical nerves ; the lonyus colli and scaleni muscles by twigs from nearly all the cervical nerves. The muscles of the chest-wall, viz., the intercostals, subcostals, levatores costarum, serrati postici, and triangularis sterni, are supplied by the intercostal nerves. The obliqui, trcinsversalis, and rectus of the abdomen are supplied by the lower intercostal nerves ; and the oblique and transverse muscles also get branches from the ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric nerves. The cremaster muscle is supplied by the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. The quadratics lumborum (like the psoas) receives small branches from the lumbar nerves before they form the plexus. The diaphragm receives the phrenic nerves from the fourth and fifth cervical nerves, branches from the lower intercostal nerves (Luschka), and likewise sympathetic filaments from the plexuses round the phrenic arteries. The muscles of the urethra and penis are supplied by the pudic nerve , the levator and sphincter ani by the pudic and the fourth sacral nerves ; and the coccygeus muscle by the fourth and fifth sacral nerves. 3. To muscles attaching the upper limb to the trunk.—The trapezius and the cleido-mastoid receive the distribution of the spinal accessory nerve, and, in union with it, filaments from the cervical plexus. The latissimus clorsi receives the long subscapular nerve.MUSCULAR DISTRIBUTION. 049 The rhomboidci are supplied by a special branch from the anterior division of the fifth cervical nerve. The levator anguli scapula is supplied by branches from the anterior divisions of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and partly also by the branch to the rhomboid muscles. The serratus magnus has a special nerve, the posterior thoracic, derived from the fifth and sixth, sometimes also the seventh, cervical nerves. The subclavius receives a special branch from the place of union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. The pectorales are supplied by the anterior thoracic branches of the brachial plexus, the larger muscle receiving filaments from both these nerves, and the smaller from the inner only. 4. To muscles of the upper limb.-—Muscles of the shoulder.—The supraspinatus and infraspinatus are supplied by the suprascapular nerve ; the subscapularis by the upper and lower subscapular nerves ; the teres major by the lower subscapular ; and the deltoid and teres minor by the circumflex nerve. Posterior muscles of the arm and forearm.— The triceps, anconeus supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior are supplied by direct branches of the musculo-spiral nerve ; while the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the other extensor muscles in the forearm re- ceive their branches from the posterior interosseous' division of that nerve. Anterior muscles of the arm and forearm.—The coraco-brachialis, biceps, and brachialis anticus are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve; the brachialis anticus likewise frequently receives a twig from the musculo-spiral nerve. The muscles of the front of the forearm are supplied by the median nerve, with the exception of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum, which are supplied by the ulnar nerve. Muscles of the hand.—The abductor and opponens pollicis, the outer half of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the two outer lumbricales muscles, are supplied by the median nerve : all the other muscles receive their nerves from the ulnar. 5. To muscles of the lower limb.—-Posterior muscles of the hip and thigh.—The gluteus maximus is supplied by the inferior gluteal nerve ; the gluteus medius and minimus, together with the tensor vaginae femoris, by the superior gluteal nerve. The pyriformis, gemelli, obtu- rator interims, and quadratus femoris receive special branches from the sacral plexus. The hamstring muscles are supplied by branches from the great sciatic nerve. Anterior and internal muscles of the thigh.—The psoas muscle is sup- plied by separate twigs from the lumbar nerves. The iliacus, quadriceps extensor femoris, sartorius and pectineus are supplied by the anterior crural nerve. The adductor muscles and the obturator externus are sup- plied by the obturator nerve, but the adductor magnus likewise receives a branch from the great sciatic. Anterior muscles of the leg and foot.—The muscles in front of the leg, together with the extensor brevis digitorum, are supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Thzperoneus longus and brevis are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve.SYMPATHETIC XERYES. 650 Posterior muscles of the teg.— The gastrocnemius, plantaris, soleus, and popliteus are supplied by branches from the internal popliteal nerve ; the long deep muscles, viz., the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, and tibialis posticus, derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. Plantar muscles.—The flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis, and the inner two lumbricales, are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; all the others, including the flexor accessorius and inter- osseous muscles, are supplied by the external plantar nerve. SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The nerves of the sympathetic system are distributed in general to all the internal viscera, and to the coats of the blood-vessels. Some organs, however, receive nerves also from the cerebro-spinal system, as the lungs, the heart, and the upper and lower parts of the alimentary canal ; and it is probable that those viscera which are not supplied directly in this way receive fibres derived originally from cerebro-spinal nerves through their sympathetic plexuses. This division of the nervous system consists of a somewhat complicated collection of ganglia, cords and plexuses, the parts of which may, for con- venience, be classified in two groups, viz., the principal gangliated cords, and the great prevertebral plexuses with the nerves proceeding from them. The ganglia of union with cranial nerves, viz., the ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, otic and submaxillary ganglia, which are sometimes regarded as constituting a third division of the sympathetic system, have already been described in connection with the fifth nerve. The great gangliated cords are two in number, and each consists of a series of ganglia united by short intervening cords, sometimes double. These gangliated cords are placed symmetrically, partly in front, and partly on the side, of the vertebral column, extending from the base of the skull to the coccyx. Superiorly they are connected with plexuses which enter the cranial cavity, while interiorly they converge on the sacrum, and terminate in a loop on the coccyx. The several oortions of the cords are distinguished as cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral, and in each of these parts the ganglia are equal in number, or nearly so, to the vertebrae against which they lie, except in the neck, where there are only three. Connection of the gangliated cords with the cerebro-spinal system.—The ganglia are severally connected with the anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves in their neighbourhood by means of short filaments ; each connecting filament consisting of a white and a grey portion, the former of which may be considered as proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. At its upper end the gangliated cord communicates likewise with certain cranial nerves. The main cords intervening between the ganglia, like the smaller filaments connecting the ganglia with the spinal nerves, are composed of a grey and a white part, the white being continuous with the fibres of the spinal nerves prolonged to the ganglia. Erom the connecting- branches with the spinal nerves minute filaments (nervi sinu-vertebrales—Luschka) are given off, which pass inwards through the inter- vertebral foramina, where they are joined each by a filament from the trunk of the corresponding spinal n rve, and arc finally distributed to the dura mater and the651 CERVICAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. Fig. 364.—Diagrammatic outline op the sym- pathetic COP.I) op one side in connection with THE SPINAL NERVES. Tlie full description of this figure will be found at p. 590. On the right side the following letters indicate parts of the sympathetic nerves, viz.—a, superior cervical ganglion, communicating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below into the great sympathetic cord ; 6, middle cervical ganglion ; e, d, lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal : d', eleventh dorsal ganglion; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglia the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; l, lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; ss, upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union witli the spinal nerves are shown. veins of the spinal canal, and to the bodies of the vertebral (Luschka, “ Die Nerven d. menschl. Wirbelkanales,” Tubingen, 1850; Riidinger,“ Ueb. d.Verbreitung d. Sympathicus i. d. aninralen Rohre Miinchen, 1803). The great prevertebral plexuses comprise three large aggregations of nerves, or nerves and ganglia, situated in front of the spine, and occupying respectively the thorax, the abdomen, and the pelvis. They are single and median, and arc named respectively the cardiac, the solar, and the hypogastric plexus. These plexuses receive branches from the cerebro-spinal nerves, as well as from both the gangliated cords above noticed, and they constitute centres from which the viscera are supplied with nerves. CERVICAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the neck, each gangliated cord is deeply placed behind the sheath of the great cervical blood-vessels, and in con- tact with the muscles which immediately cover the fore part of the vertebral column. It comprises three ganglia, the first of which is placed near the base of the skull, the second in the lower part of the neck, and the third immediately above the neck of the first rib. UPPER CERVICAL GANGLION. This is the largest ganglion of the great sympathetic cord. It is continued652 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. superiorly into an ascending branch, and tapers below into the con- necting cord, so as to present usually a fusiform shape ; but there is considerable variety in this respect in different cases, the ganglion being occasionally broader than usual, and sometimes constricted at intervals. It has the reddish-grey colour characteristic of the ganglia of the sympathetic system. It is placed on the rectus anticus major muscle, opposite the second and third cervical vertebrae, and behind the internal carotid artery. Connection with spinal nerves.—At its outer side, the superior cervical ganglion is connected with the first four spinal nerves, by means of slender cords, which have the structure pointed out in the general description as being common to the series. The circumstance of this ganglion being connected with so many as four spinal nerves, together with its occasionally constricted appearance, is favourable to the view that it may be regarded as consisting of several ganglia which have coalesced. Connection with cranial nerves.—Small twigs connect the ganglion or its cranial cord with the lower ganglion of the pneumo-gastric, and with the twelfth cranial nerve, near the base of the skull; and another branch, which is directed upwards from the ganglion, divides at the base of the skull into two filaments, one of which ends in the petrous ganglion of the glossopharyngeal nerve ; while the other, entering the jugular foramen, joins the ganglion of the root of the pneumo- gastric. Besides the branches connecting it with cranial and spinal nerves, the first cervical ganglion gives off also the ascending branch, pharyngeal branches, the upper cardiac nerve, and branches to blood-vessels. Fig. 3C5. Fig. 365.—Connections of the sympathetic nerve through its carotid branch WITn SOME OF THE CRANIAL NERVES. The full description of this figure will be found at p. 561. The following numbers refer to sympathetic nerves and their connections : 6, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 9, large deep petrosal nerve ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganglion ; 12, its prolongation in the carotid branch ; 15, tympanic nerve ; 16, twig uniting it to the sympathetic.CAROTID AND CAVERNOUS PLEXUSES. 653 1. Ascending branch and cranial plexuses.—The ascending or carotid branch of the first cervical ganglion is soft in texture and of a reddish tint, seeming to be in some degree a prolongation of the ganglion itself. In its course to the skull, it is concealed by the internal carotid artery, with which it enters the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and it is then divided into two parts, which are placed one on the outer, the other on the inner side of the vessel. The external division distributes filaments to the internal carotid artery, receives one or two twigs from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (p. 578), and, after communicating by means of other filaments with the internal division of the cord, forms the carotid plexus. The internal division, rather the smaller of the two, supplies filaments to the carotid artery, and goes to form the cavernous plexus. The terminal parts of these divisions of the cranial cord are prolonged on the trunk of the internal carotid, and extend to the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries, around which they form secondary plexuses, those on the cerebral arteries ascending to the pia mater. One minute plexus enters the eye-ball with the central artery of the retina. It was stated by Ribes (Mem. de la Societe Med. d'Emulation, tom. viii., p. fiOO) that the cranial prolongations of the sympathetic nerves of the two sides coalesce with one another on the anterior communicating artery,—a small ganglion or a plexus being formed at the point of junction ; but this connection, has not been satisfactorily made out by other observers. Carotid plexus.—The carotid plexus, situated on the outer side of the internal carotid artery at its second bend (reckoning from below), or between the second and third bends, joins the fifth and sixth cranial nerves, and gives many filaments to the vessel on which it lies. Branches.—(r/) The connection with the sixth nerve is established by means of one or two filaments of considerable size, which are supplied to* that nerve where it lies by the side of the internal carotid artery. (h) The filaments connected with the Gasserian ganglion of the fifth nerve proceed generally from the carotid plexus, but sometimes from the cavernous. (c) The large deep petrosal nerve passes forwards from the outer side of the artery to the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal, where it joins the large superficial petrosal from the facial to form the Vidian nerve, which is continued to the spheno-palatine ganglion (p. 5G3). id) The small deep petrosal nerve passes from the carotid plexus backwards to the tympanic plexus (p. 578), and probably conveys sympathetic fibres to the latter. Cavernous plexus.—The cavernous plexus, named from its position in the sinus of the same name, is placed below and rather to the inner side of the highest turn of the internal carotid artery. Besides giving branches on the artery, it communicates with the third, the fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth cranial nerves. Branches.—(a) The filament which joins the third nerve comes into connection with it close to the point of division of that nerve. (h) The branch to the fourth nerve, which may be derived from either the cavernous or the carotid plexus, joins the nerve where it lies in the wall of the cavernous sinus.054 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. (e) The filaments connected with the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth nerve are supplied to its inner surface. (d) The sympathetic root of the ophthalmic ganglion passes from the cavernous plexus into the orbit, either separately, or in connection with the nasal nerve, or, according to Reichart, with the third nerve (p. 559b (e) Minute filaments are furnished to the pituitary body. 2. Pharyngeal nerves and plexus—These nerves arise from the fore part of the ganglion, and are directed obliquely inwards to the side of the pharynx. Opposite the middle constrictor muscle they unite with branches of the pneumo-gastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves ; and by their union with these nerves the pharyngeal plexus is formed. Branches emanating from the plexus are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. One or two filaments pass from these branches to the superior and external laryngeal nerves. 3. Upper cardiac nerve.—Each of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic furnishes a cardiac branch, the three being named respec- tively the upper, middle, and lower cardiac nerves. These branches are continued singly, or in connection, to the large prevertebral centre (cardiac plexus) of the thorax. Their size varies considerably, and where one branch is smaller than common, another will be found to be increased in size, as if to compensate for the defect. There are some differences in the disposition of the nerves of the right and left sides. The upper or superficial cardiac nerve of the rigid side proceeds from two or more branches of the ganglion, with, in some instances, an offset from the cord connecting the first two ganglia. In its course down the neck the nerve lies behind the carotid sheath, in contact with the longus colli muscle ; and it is placed in front of the lower thyroid artery and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Entering the thorax, it passes in some cases before, in others behind the subclavian artery, and is directed along the innominate artery to the back part of the arch of the aorta, where it ends in the deep cardiac plexus, a few small filaments con- tinuing also to the front of the great vessel. Some branches accompany the inferior thyroid artery to be distributed to the thyroid body. In its course downwards this cardiac nerve is repeatedly connected with other branches of the sympathetic, and with the pneumo-gastric nerve. Thus, about the middle of the neck it is joined by some filaments from the external laryngeal nerve ; and, rather lower down, by one or two filaments from the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve (upper cervical cardiac branches) : lastly, on entering the chest, it joins with the recur- rent laryngeal. Variety.—Instead of passing to the thorax in the manner described, the superior cardiac nerve may join the cardiac branch furnished from one of the other cervical ganglia. Scarpa describes this as the common disposition of the nerve; but Cruveilhier (“ Anat. Descript.,” t. iii., 707) states that he has not in any case found the cardiac nerves to correspond exactly with the figures of the “ Tabuke Neurologic®.” The upper cardiac nerve of the left side has, while in the neck, the same course and connections as that of the right side. Within the chest it follows the left carotid artery to the arch of the aorta, and usually crosses over that vessel to enter the superficial cardiac plexus. In someBRANCHES OF UPPER CERVICAL GANGLION. 655 cases, however, this nerve ends, either wholly or in part, in the deep cardiac plexus, and it then descends behind the arch of the aorta. 4. Branches to blood-vessels.—The nerves which ramify on the arteries (nervi molles) spring from the front of the ganglion, and twine round the trunk of the external carotid artery. They arc also prolonged on the branches of the artery, and form slender plexuses upon them. From the plexus on the facial artery is derived the filament which forms the sympathetic root of the submaxillary ganglion ; and from that on Fig. 366. Fig. 366.—Connections of the cervical and upper dorsal sympathetic ganglia AND NERVES ON THE LEFT SIDE. The full description of this figure will be found at p. 580. The following numbers refer to the sympathetic ganglia and nerves, and those immediately connected with them : 5, pharyngeal plexus ; 12, 13, posterior pulmonary plexus ; and to the reader’s left, above the pulmonary artery, the superficial cardiac plexus ; 21, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; 25, middle cervical ganglion ; 26, conjoined inferior cervical and first dorsal ganglia ; 27, 28, 29, 30, second, third, fourth, and fifth dorsal ganglia.6.') 6 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the middle meningeal artery, twigs are described as extending to the otic ganglion, as well as to the geniculate ganglion of the facial nerve (external superficial petrosal nerve, p. 572). One filament descends from these nerves to the carotid gland. Microscopic ganglia are frequently met with in the vascular plexuses, and several larger ones, of more constant occurrence, have been described. The most important of these is the temporal ganglion, of about a line in length, situated on the external carotid artery at the place of origin of the posterior auricular branch ; it is said to receive a filament from the stylo-hyoid branch of the facial nerve. MIDDLE CERVICAL GANGLION. The middle ganglion (thyroid ganglion), much the smallest of the cervical ganglia, is placed on or near the inferior thyroid artery, opposite the sixth cervical vertebra. It is usually connected with the fifth and sixth spinal nerves, but in a somewhat variable manner. It gives off* thyroid branches and the middle cardiac nerve. Thyroid branches.—From the inner side of the ganglion some twigs proceed along the inferior thyroid artery to the thyroid body, where they join the recurrent laryngeal and the external laryngeal nerves. While on the artery, these branches communicate with the upper cardiac nerve. The middle cardiac nerve (deep or great cardiac nerve) of the right side is prolonged to the chest either in front of or behind the subclavian artery. In the chest it lies on the trachea, where it is joined by filaments of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and it ends in the right side of the deep cardiac plexus. While in the neck, this nerve communicates with the upper cardiac nerve and the recurrent branch of the pneumo-gastric. On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. Variety.—The middle cervical ganglion is sometimes absent, and in that case the middle cardiac nerve is given off by the interganglionic cord. LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION. The lower or third cervical ganglion is irregular in shape, usually somewhat flattened and round, or semilunar, and is frequently united to- the first thoracic ganglion. Placed in a hollow between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it is concealed by the vertebral artery. It is connected by short communi- cating cords with the lowest two cervical nerves. Its branches are the lower cardiac nerve, and offsets to blood-vessels. The lower cardiac nerve, issuing from the third cervical ganglion or from the first thoracic, inclines inwards on the right side, behind the subclavian artery, and terminates in the cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. It communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves behind the subclavian artery. On the left side, the lower cardiac often becomes blended with the middle cardiac nerve, and the cord resulting from their union terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. Brandies to blood vessels.—From the lowest cervical and first dorsal ganglia slender branches ascend along the vertebral artery in its canal, forming a plexus round the vessel by their intercommunications.657 THORACIC PART OF THE GAXGLIATED CORD. and supplying it with offsets. This plexus is connected with the cervical spinal nerves as they cross the vertebral artery, and its ultimate ramifi- cations are continued on the intracranial branches of the vertebral and basilar arteries. One or two branches pass from the middle cervical ganglion to the lower cervical or first dorsal ganglion in front of the subclavian artery, forming loops round the vessel (ansae Yieussenii), and supplying it with small offsets. THORACIC PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the thorax, the gangliated cord is placed at the side of the spinal column, along a line passing over the heads of the ribs. It is covered by the pleura, and crosses the intercostal blood-vessels. Opposite the head of each rib the cord usually presents a ganglion, so that there are commonly twelve of these ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, the number varies slightly. The first ganglion when distinct is larger than the rest, and is of an elongated form ; but it is often blended with the lower cervical ganglion. The rest are small, generally oval, but very various in form. Connection with spinal nerves.—The branches of connection be- tween the dorsal nerves and the ganglia of the sympathetic are usually two in number for each ganglion ; one of these generally resembling the spinal nerve in structure, the other more similar to the sympathetic nerve. BRANCHES OF THE GANGLIA. The branches furnished by the first five or six ganglia are small, and are distributed in a great measure to the thoracic aorta, the vertebrae, and ligaments. Several of these branches enter the posterior pulmonary plexus (p. 585); The branches furnished by the lower six or seven ganglia unite into three cords on each side, which pass down to join plexuses in the abdomen, and are distinguished as the great, the small, and the smallest splanchnic nerves. Great splanchnic nerve.—This nerve is formed by the union of small cords (roots) given off by the thoracic ganglia from the fifth or sixth to the ninth or tenth inclusive. By careful examination of speci- mens after immersion in acetic or diluted nitric acid, small filaments may be traced from the splanchnic roots upwards as far as the third ganglion, or even as far as the first (Beck, Phil. Trans., 1840). Gradually augmented by the successive addition of the several roots* the cord descends obliquely inwards over the bodies of the dorsal vertebrae ; and, after perforating the crus of the diaphragm, terminates in the semilunar ganglion, frequently sending some filaments to the renal plexus and the suprarenal body. The splanchnic nerve is remarkable from its white colour and firmness, which are owing to the preponderance of spinal nerve-fibres in its composition. "Varieties.—In the chest the great splanchnic nerve is not unfreqiiently divided into parts, and forms a plexus with the small splanchnic nerve. Occasionally also a small ganglion (splanchnic ganglion) is formed on it over the last dorsal vertebra, or the last but one ; and when it presents a ploxiform VOL. i. u uSYMPATHETIC HE EYES. 658SPLANCHNIC NERVES. 659 Fig. 3G7.—Diagrammatic view of the sympathetic cord of the right side, showing ITS CONNECTIONS WITH THE PRINCIPAL CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES AND THE MAIN PIIEAORTIC PLEXUSES. $■ Cerebrospinal Nerves.—VI, a portion of the sixth cranial nerve as it passes through the cavernous sinus, receiving two twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic nerve ; 0, ophthalmic ganglion, connected by a twig with the cavernous plexus; M, connection of the spheno-palatine ganglion by the large deep petrosal nerve with the carotid plexus ; C, cervical plexus ; Br, brachial plexus ; D 6, sixth dorsal nerve ; D 12, twelfth ; L 8, third lumbar nerve ; S 1, first sacral nerve ; S 3, third ; S 5, fifth ; Cr, anterior crural nerve ; Cr', great sciatic ; pn, pneumo-gastric nerve in the lower part of the neck ; r, re- current nerve, winding round the subclavian artery. Sympathetic Cord.—c, superior cervical gaDglion ; c', middle ; c", inferior ; from each of these ganglia cardiac nerves (all deep on this side) are seen descending to the cardiac plexus; d 1, placed immediately below the first dorsal sympathetic ganglion; cZ 6, is opposite the sixth ; l 1, first lumbar ganglion ; c g, the terminal or coccygeal ganglion. Preaortic and Visceral Plexuses. —pp, pharyngeal plexus ; pi, posterior pulmonary plexus, spreading from the pneumo-gastric on the back of the right bronchus ; ca, on the aorta, the cardiac plexus, towards which, in addition to the cardiac nerves from the three cervical sympathetic ganglia, other branches are seen descending from the pneumo-gastric and recurrent nerves ; co, right or posterior, and co’, left or anterior coronary plexus ; o, oesophageal plexus in long meshes on the gullet; sp, great splanchnic nerve; +, small splanchnic ; + +, smallest splanchnic ; the first and second of these are shown joining so, the' solar plexus ; the third descending to re, the renal plexus; connecting branches between the solar plexus and the pneumo-gastric nerves are also represented ; pn', above the place where the right pneumo-gastric passes to the posterior surfa.ee of the stomach ; pn", the left, distributed on the anterior surface of the cardiac portion of the organ ; from the solar plexus large branches are seen surrounding the arteries of the cteliac axis, and descending to ms, the superior mesenteric plexus ; opposite to this is an indication of the suprarenal plexus ; below re (the renal plexus), the spermatic plexus is also indicated ; ao, on the front of the aorta, marks the aortic plexus, formed by nerves descending from the solar and superior mesenteric plexuses and from the lumbar ganglia; mi, the inferior mesenteric plexus, surrounding the corresponding artery ; hy, hypogastric plexus, placed between the common iliac arteries, connected above with the aortic plexus, receiving nerves from the lower lumbar ganglia, and dividing below into the right and left pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses ; pi, right pelvic plexus ; from this the nerves descending are joined by those from the plexus on the superior lnemorrhoidal vessels mi', by sympathetic nerves from the sacral ganglia, and by numerous visceral nerves from the third and fourth sacral spinal nerves, and there are thus formed the rectal, vesical, and other plexuses, which ramify upon the viscera from behind forwards, and from below upwards, as towards ir, and v, the rectum and bladder. arrangement, several small ganglia have been observed on its divisions. Accord- ing to Cunningham, the splanchnic ganglion is always present on the right side (Journ. Anat., ix., 303). In eight instances out of a large number of bodies, Wrisberg observed a fourth splanchnic nerve (nervus splanchnicus supremus). It is described as formed by offsets from the cardiac nerves, and from the lower cervical as well as some of the upper thoracic ganglia. (“ Observ. Anatom, de Nerv. Visceram particula prima, ” p. 25, sect. 3.) Small splanclmic nerve.—The small or second splanchnic nerve springs from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, or from the neighbouring part of the cord. It passes along with the preceding nerve, or separately, through the diaphragm, and ends in the coeliac plexus. In the chest, this nerve often communicates with the large splanchnic nerve ; and in some instances it furnishes filaments to the renal plexus, especially if the lowest splanchnic nerve is very small or wanting. Smallest splanclmic nerve.—This nerve (nerv. renalis posterior— "Walter) arises from the twelfth thoracic ganglion, and communicates sometimes with the nerve last described. After piercing the diaphragm, it ends in the renal plexus, and in the inferior part of the coeliac plexus. u u 2SYMPATHETIC NERVES. CGO LUMBAR PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the lumbar region, the two gangliated cords approach one another more nearly than in the thorax. They are placed before the bodies ol the vertebrae, each lying along the inner margin of the psoas muscle ; and that of the right side is partly covered by the vena cava, that of the left by the aorta. The ganglia are small, and of an oval shape. They are commonly four in number, but occasionally their number is diminished, and they are then of larger size. Connection with spinal nerves.—In consequence of the greater dis- tance at which the lumbar ganglia are placed from the intervertebral fora- mina-, the branches of connection with the spinal nerves are longer than in other parts of the gangliated cord. There are generally two connecting branches for each ganglion, but the number is not so uniform as it is in the chest; nor are those belonging to any one ganglion connected always with the same spinal nerve. The connecting branches accompany the lumbar arteries, and, as they cross the bodies of the vertebrae, are covered by the fibrous bands which give origin to the psoas muscle. Branches.—The branches of these ganglia are uncertain in their number. Some join the plexus on the aorta ; others descending go to form the hypogastric plexus. Several filaments are distributed to the vertebrae and the ligaments connecting them. SACRAL PART OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. Over the sacrum, the gangliated cord of the sympathetic nerve is much diminished in size, and gives but few branches to the viscera. Its position on the front of the sacrum is along the inner side of the anterior sacral foramina ; and like the two series of those foramina, the right and left cords approach one another in their progress downwards. The upper end of each is united to the last lumbar ganglion by a single or a double interganglionic cord ; and at the lower end they are connected by means of a loop, in which a single median ganglion, ganglion impar or coccygeal ganglion, placed on the fore part of the coccyx, is often found. The sacral ganglia are usually four in number ; but the variation both in size and number is more marked in these than in the thoracic or lumbar ganglia. Connection with spinal nerves.—From the proximity of the sacral ganglia to the spinal nerves at their emergence from the foramina, the communicating branches are very short : tliere are usually two for each ganglion, and these are in some cases connected with different sacral nerves. The coccygeal nerve communicates with the last sacral, or the coccygeal ganglion. Branches.—The branches proceeding from the sacral ganglia are much smaller than those from other ganglia of the cord. They are for the most part expended on the front of the sacrum, and join the corresponding branches from the opposite side. Some filaments from one or two of the upper ganglia enter the pelvic plexus, while others go to form a plexus on the middle sacral artery. From the loop con- necting the two cords, filaments are given to the coccyx and to the liga- jnents about it, and to the coccygeal gland.661 CARDIAC TLEXUS. THE GREAT PLEXUSES OF THE SYMPATHETIC. Under this head may be included certain large plexuses of nerves placed farther forwards in the visceral cavity than the gangliated cords, and furnishing branches to the viscera. The principal of these plexuses are the cardiac, the solar, and the hypogastric with the pelvic plexuses prolonged from it. They are composed of assemblages of nerves, or of nerves and ganglia, and from them smaller plexuses are derived. CARDIAC PLEXUS. This plexus receives the cardiac branches of the cervical ganglia and those of the pneumo-gastric nerves, and from it proceed the nerves which supply the heart, besides some offsets which contribute to the nervous supply of the lungs. It lies against the aorta and pulmonary artery, where these vessels are in contact, and in its network are distin- guished two parts, the superficial and the deep cardiac plexuses, the deep plexus being seen behind the vessels, and the superficial more in front, but both being closely connected. The branches pass from these plexuses chiefly forwards in two bundles, accompanying the coronary arteries. Superficial cardiac plexus.—The superficial cardiac plexus lies in the concavity of the arch of the aorta, between the ligament of the ductus arteriosus and the right branch of the pulmonary artery. In it the superficial or first cardiac nerve of the sympathetic of the left side terminates, either wholly or in part, together with the lower cervical cardiac branch of the left pneumo-gastric nerve. In the superficial plexus a small ganglion, the ganglion of Wrisberg, is frequently found at the point of union of the nerves. Besides ending in the right coronary plexus, the superficial cardiac plexus furnishes laterally filaments along the pulmonary artery to the anterior pulmonary plexus of the left side. Deep cardiac plexus.—The deep cardiac plexus, much larger than the superficial one, is placed behind the arch of the aorta, between it and the end of the trachea, and above the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery. This plexus receives all the cardiac branches of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, except the first or superficial cardiac nerve of the left side. It likewise receives the cardiac nerves furnished by the vagus and by the recurrent laryngeal branch of that nerve, with the exception of the left cervical cardiac nerves. Of the branches from the right side of the plexus, the greater number descend in front of the right pulmonary artery, and join branches from the superficial part in the formation of the right coronary plexus; others, passing behind the right pulmonary artery, are distributed to the right auricle of the heart, and a few filaments are continued into the left coronary plexus. On the left side, a few branches pass forwards by the side of the ductus arteriosus to join the superficial cardiac plexus ; but the great majority end in the left coronary plexus. The deep cardiac plexus sends filaments to the anterior pulmonary plexus on each side. Coronary plexuses.—The right coronary plexus is derived from both the superficial and deep cardiac plexuses, the filaments by which it arises662 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. embracing the root of the aorta. It accompanies the right coronary artery on the heart, sending its branches upwards and downwards to the airricle and ventricle. The left coronary plexus is larger than the right, and is derived mainly from the left half of the deep cardiac plexus. Being directed forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left auricular appendage, it reaches the left coronary artery, and subdivides into two principal portions which accompany the primary divisions of that vessel. Nervous filaments ramify in great number under the pericardium, especially on the ventricular portion of the heart. They are not so easily distinguished in man as in some animals. In the heart of the calf or the lamb they are distinctly seen without dissection, running in lines which cross obliquely the muscular fibres. Remak was the first to observe that these branches are furnished with small ganglia, both on the surface and in the muscular substance (Muller’s •‘Archiv,” 1841). For a description of the Ganglia and Nerves of the Heart from original observations, see I. Bell Pettigrew, “ Physiol, of the Circulation, ” &c., 1874, p. 293. SOLAR OR EPIGASTRIC PLEXUS. The solar or epigastric plexus, the largest of the prevertebral centres, is placed at the upper part of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and in front of the aorta and the pillars of the diaphragm. Surrounding the origin of the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery, it occu- pies the interval between the suprarenal bodies, and extends downwards as far as the pancreas. The plexus consists of nervous cords, with several ganglia of various sizes connected with them. The large splanchnic nerve on both sides, and some branches of the pneurno- gastric, terminate in it. The branches given off from it are very numerous, and accompany the arteries to the principal viscera of the abdomen, constituting so many secondary plexuses on the vessels. Thus, diaphragmatic, coeliac, mesenteric, and other plexuses are recog- nised, which follow the corresponding arteries. Semilunar ganglia.—The solar plexus contains, as already men- tioned, several ganglia ; and by the size of these bodies it is distinguished from the other prevertebral plexuses. The two principal ganglionic masses, named semilunar, though they have often little of the form the name implies, occupy the upper and outer part of the plexus, one on each side, and are placed close to the suprarenal bodies by the side of the cceliac and the superior mesenteric arteries. At the upper end, which is expanded, each ganglion receives the great splanchnic nerve. Diaphragmatic or phrenic plexus.—The nerves composing this plexus are derived from the upper part of the semilunar ganglion, and are larger on the right than on the left side. Accompanying the arteries along the lower surface of the diaphragm, the nerves sink into the sub- stance of the muscle. They furnish some filaments to the suprarenal body, and join with the spinal phrenic nerves. At the right side, on the under surface of the diaphragm, and near the suprarenal body, there is a small ganglion, (diaphragmatic or phrenic, ganglion,) which marks the junction between the phrenic nerves of the spinal and sympathetic systems. From this small ganglion filaments are distributed to the vena cava, the suprarenal body, and the hepatic plexus. On the left side the ganglion is wanting. Suprarenal plexus.—The suprarenal nerves issue from the solarOFFSETS OF THE SOLAR PLEXUS. 6G3 plexus and the outer part of the semilunar ganglion, a few filaments being added from the diaphragmatic plexus. They are short, but numerous in comparison with the size of the body which they supply : they enter the upper and inner parts of the suprarenal capsule. These nerves are continuous below with the renal plexus. The plexus is joined by branches from one of the splanchnic nerves, and presents a ganglion (gcingl. splanchnico-svprarenale), where it is connected with those branches. The plexus and ganglion are smaller on the left than on the right side. Renal plexus.—The nerves forming the renal plexus, fifteen or twenty in number, emanate for the most part from the outer side of the semilunar ganglion; but some are added from the solar and aortic plexuses. Moreover, filaments from the smallest splanchnic nerve, and occasionally from the other splanchnic nerves, terminate in the renal plexus. In their course along the renal artery, ganglia of different sizes {renal ganglia) are formed on these nerves. Lastly, dividing with the branching of the vessel, the nerves follow the renal arteries into the sub- stance of the kidney. On the right side some filaments are furnished to the vena cava, behind which the plexus passes with the renal artery ; and on both sides offsets pass to the spermatic plexus. Spermatic plexus.—This small plexus commences in the renal, but receives in its course along the spermatic artery an accession from the aortic plexus. Continuing downwards to the testis, the spermatic nerves are connected with others which accompany the vas deferens and its artery from the pelvis. In the female, the plexus, like the artery, is distributed to the ovary and the uterus. Cceliac plexus.—This plexus is of large size, and is derived from the fore part of the great epigastric plexus. It surrounds the cceliac axis in a kind of membranous sheath, and subdivides, with the artery, into coronary, hepatic, and splenic plexuses, the branches of which form communications corresponding with the arches of the arterial anasto- mosis. The plexus receives offsets from one or more of the splanchnic nerves, and on the left side a considerable branch from the right pneumo-gastric nerve is continued into it. The coronary plexus is placed with its artery along the small curvature of the stomach, and unites with the nerves which accompany the pyloric artery, as well as with branches of the pneumo-gastric nerves. The nerves of this plexus enter the coats of the stomach, after running a short distance beneath the peritoneum. The hepatic plexus, the largest of the three divisions of the cceliac plexus, ascends with the hepatic vessels and the bile-duct, and, entering the substance of the liver, ramifies on the branches of the portal vein and the hepatic artery. Offsets from the left pneumo-gastric nerve join the hepatic plexus at the left side of the vessels. From this plexus fila- ments are furnished to the right suprarenal plexus, as well as other secondary plexuses which follow the branches of the hepatic artery. Thus there is a cystic plexus to the gall-bladder ; and there are pyloric, gastro-epiploic, and pancreatico-duodenal p>lcxuses, which unite with coronary, splenic, and mesenteric nerves. The splenic plexus, continued on the splenic artery and its branches into the substance of the spleen, is reinforced at its beginning by branches from the left semilunar ganglion, and by filaments from theCGI SYMPATHETIC NERVES. right vagus nerve. It furnishes the left (/astro-epiploic and pancreatic plexuses, which course along the corresponding branches of the splenic artery, and, like the vessels, are distributed to the stomach and pancreas. Superior mesenteric plexus.—The plexus accompanying the superior mesenteric artery, whiter in colour and firmer than any of the preceding offsets of the solar plexus, envelopes the artery in a mem- braniform sheath, and receives a prolongation from the junction of the right pneumo-gastric nerve with the cceliac plexus. Near the root of the artery, ganglionic masses (gangl. mcseraica) occur in connection with the nerves of this plexus. The offsets of the plexus are in name and distribution the same as the vessels. In their progress to the intestine some of the nerves quit the arteries which first supported them, and are directed forwards in the intervals between the A7essels. As they proceed they divide, and unite with lateral branches, like the arteries, but without the same regularity : they finally pass upon the intestine along the line of attachment of the mesentery. Aortic plexus.—The aortic or intermesenteric plexus, placed along the abdominal aorta, and occupying the interval between the origins of the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries, consists, for the most part, of two lateral cords, connected with the semilunar ganglia and renal plexuses, which are extended on the sides of the aorta, and which meet in several communicating branches over the front of that vessel. It is joined by branches from some of the lumbar ganglia, and presents not unfrequently one or more distinct ganglionic enlargements towards its centre. The aortic plexus furnishes the inferior mesenteric plexus and part of the spermatic, gives some filaments to the lower vena cava, and ends below in the hypogastric plexus. Inferior mesenteric plexus.—This plexus is derived principally from the left lateral part of the aortic plexus, and closely surrounds with a network the inferior mesenteric artery. It distributes nerves to the left or descending part and the sigmoid flexure of the colon, and assists in supplying the rectum. The nerves of this plexus, like those of the superior mesenteric plexus, are firm in texture and of a whitish colour. The highest branches (those on the left colic artery) are connected with the last branches (middle colic) of the superior mesenteric plexus, while others in the pelvis unite with offsets derived from the pelvic plexus. HYPOGASTRIC PLEXUS. The hypogastric plexus, the assemblage of nerves destined for the supply of the viscera of the pelvis, lies, invested in a sheath of dense connective tissue, in the interval between the two common iliac arteries. It is formed by the prolongations of the aortic plexus on each side, which receive considerable branches from the lumbar ganglia, and, after crossing the common iliac artery, interlace in the form of a flat plexiform. mass placed in front of the lowest lumbar vertebra. The plexus contains no distinct ganglia. At the lower end it divides into two parts, which are directed forwards, one to each side of the pelvic viscera, and form the pelvic plexuses.PELVIC PLEXUS. 665 PELVIC PLEXUS. The pelvic or inferior hypogastric plexuses, one on each side, are placed in the lower part of the pelvic cavity by the side of the rectum, and of the vagina in the female. The nerves, continued from the hypo- gastric plexus, enter into repeated communications as they descend, and form at the points of connection small knots, which contain a little ganglionic matter. After descending some way, they become united with branches of the spinal nerves, as well as with a few offsets of the sacral ganglia, and the union of all constitutes the pelvic plexus. The spinal branches which enter into the plexus are furnished from the third and fourth sacral nerves, occasionally also the second. Small ganglia are formed at the places of union of the spinal nerves, as well as else- where in the plexus (plexus gangliosus—Tiedemann). From the plexus so constituted, numerous nerves are distributed to the pelvic viscera. They correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery, and vary with the sex ; thus, besides htemorrhoidal and vesical nerves, which are common to both sexes, there are nerves special to each :—namely, in the male for the prostate, vesicula seminalis, and vas deferens ; in the female, for the vagina, uterus, ovary, and Fallopian tube. The nerves distributed to the urinary bladder and the vagina contain a larger proportion of spinal nerves than those furnished to the other pelvic viscera. Hsemorrhoidal plexus.—These slender nerves proceed from the back part of the pelvic plexus. They join with the nerves (superior hfemor- rhoidal) which descend with the inferior mesenteric artery, and penetrate the coats of the rectum. Vesical plexus.—The nerves of the urinary bladder are very nu- merous. They are directed from the anterior part of the pelvic plexus to the side and lower part of the bladder. At first these nerves accompany the vesical blood-vessels, but afterwards they leave the vessels, and subdivide into minute branches before perforating the muscular coat of the organ. Secondary plexuses are given in the male to the vas deferens and the vesicula seminalis. The nerves of the vas deferens ramify round that tube, and communi- cate in the spermatic cord with the nerves of the spermatic plexus. Those furnished to the vesicula seminalis form an interlacement on the vesicula, and some branches penetrate its substance. Other filaments from the prostatic nerves reach the same structure. Prostatic plexus.-—The nerves of this plexus are of considerable size, and pass onwards between the prostate gland and the levator ani. Some are furnished to the prostate and to the vesicula seminalis ; and the plexus is then continued forwards to supply the erectile substance of the penis, where its nerves are named cavernous. Cavernous nerves of the penis.—These are very slender, and difficult to dissect. Continuing from the prostatic plexus, they pass onwards beneath the arch of the pubis, and through the muscular structure connected with the membranous part of the urethra, to the dorsum of the penis. At the root of the latter, the cavernous nerves are joined by some short filaments from the pudic nerve. Having distributed twigs to the fore part of the prostate and the membranous part of the urethra, these nerves divide into branches for the erectile substance of the penis, as follows : —SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 663 The small cavernous nerves (Mtiller) perforate the fibrous covering of the corpus cavernosum near the root of the penis, and end in the erectile substance. The large cavernous nerve, which extends forwards on the dorsum of the penis, and dividing, gives filaments that penetrate the corpus cavernosum, and pass with or near the cavernous artery. As it con- tinues onwards, this nerve joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve about the middle of the penis, and is distributed to the corpus cavernosum. Branches from the foregoing nerves reach the corpus spongiosum urethrae. (Muller, “ Ueber die organischen Nerven der erectilen mannlichen Geschlechtsorgane, ” &c. Berlin, 183G.) Vaginal plexus.—The nerves furnished to the vagina leave the lower part of the pelvic plexns—that part with which the spinal nerves are more particularly combined. They are distributed to the vagina without previously entering into a plexiform arrangement; and they end in the erectile tissue on the lower and anterior part, and in the mucous membrane. Nerves of the uterus.—These nerves are derived mainly from the lateral fasciculus prolonged to the pelvic plexus from the hypo- gastric plexus, but some filaments are also added from the third and fourth sacral nerves. They are directed upwards with the blood-vessels, between the layers of the broad ligament, along the side of the organ, and some slender filaments accompany the branches of the uterine artery, but the larger number of the nerves sink directly into the substance of the uterus, penetrating for the most part its neck and the lower portion of its body. They form connections in the broad ligament with the ovarian nerves, and the fundus of the uterus also receives an offset from that plexus. Numerous ganglia are contained in the plexus by the side of the cervical portion of the uterus, but they have not been found in its muscular substance. One branch, continued directly from the common hypogastric plexus, reaches the hinder surface of the body of the uterus above the rest ; and a nerve from the same source ascends to the Fallo- pian tube. (Fr. Tiedemann, “Tab. Nerv. Uteri,” Heidelberg, 1823 ; Robert Lee, in Phil. Trans. 1841, 1842, 184G, and 1849 ; Snow Beck, in Phil. Trans., 1846, part ii.; and F. Frankenhauser, “ Die Nerven der Gebarmutter,” 18G7.) The nerves of the gravid uterus have been frequently investigated, with a view to discover if they become enlarged along with the increase in size of the organ. It is ascertained that the increase which takes place is confined, for the most part to the thickening of the fibrous envelopes of the nerves ; but it appears also, from the researches of Kilian, that fibres furnished with a medullary sheath, which in the un- impregnated state of the uterus lose that sheath as they proceed to their distribution, in the impregnated condition of the uterus continue to be surrounded with it as they run between the muscular fibres. (Farre, in Supplement of Cyclopcedia of Anat. and Phys., “Uterus and Ap- pendages.”)SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. * In this section will be comprised, 1, a brief account of the external conformation of the body, including the relation of its anatomical con- stituents to its surface forms, and the mode of determining the position of deep seated organs, such as the viscera, large vessels, and other im- portant parts ; and 2, the topographical and surgical anatomy of the inguinal and perineal regions. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK. THE HEAD AND FACE. The upper part of the cranium is but thinly covered by the scalp, and the form of the head is almost exactly that of the skull. The bones can be readily examined by passing the hand over the head, and the following parts are thus to be distinguished :—In the middle line behind is the external occipital protuberance, from which the superior curved line proceeds outwards on each side towards the mastoid process ; below this line the bone is obscured by the overlying muscles. Above the occipital protuberance, the lambdoid suture is often to be followed as a slight depression on the surface. At the fore part of the lateral region of the head the temporal crest of the frontal bone becomes prominent, and leads down to the external angular process, the junction of which with the malar bone is marked by a distinct depression. Below this the outline of the malar bone can be followed, and from the hinder part of the latter the finger passes along the zygoma to its base in front of the ear. Higher up on the side of the head the temporal line on the parietal bone is frequently to be recognised, indicating the extent upwards of the temporal muscle. The margin of the orbit can be felt in its whole extent, and is found to be interrupted above, about the junction of the inner and middle thirds, by the supraorbital notch, unless this be con- verted into a foramen, when it is scarcely perceptible. Above the orbit is the superciliary ridge, small in the female and absent in the child, and often rendered more prominent by a largely developed frontal sinus ; above this on the forehead is the frontal eminence, which is, on the other hand, most marked during childhood. In the infant, the anterior fontanelle is felt as a lozenge-shaped depression, leading forwards to the interval between the two frontal, and backwards to that between the two parietal bones; the latter interval conducts to the triradiate posterior fontanelle, the lateral limbs of which are continued downwards along the upper margins of the occipital bone.G6S SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. The supraorbital nerve and artery pass almost vertically upwards from the supraorbital notch, and more internally the frontal artery and supra- trochlear nerve ascend over the margin of the orbit, while the large frontal vein descends in a similar position to the root of the nose. Posteriorly, the occipital vessels and great occipital nerve run upwards to the vertex, entering the scalp somewhat internal to a point midway between the external occipital protuberance and the mastoid process. The super- ficial temporal artery crosses the base of the zygoma immediately in fron t of the ear, and its anterior branch can frequently be seen, especially in old persons, running upwards and forwards with a tortuous course over the fore part of the temporal muscle towards the forehead. In contact with the inner surface of the cranial wall, the superior longitudinal sinus is directed backwards along the middle line, extending from the lower part of the forehead to the external occipital protuber- ance ; from the latter point the lateral sinus runs horizontally outwards and forwards to a spot about an inch behind the external auditory meatus, where it turns downwards towards the mastoid process. The anterior and larger branch of the middle meningeal artery runs upwards and backwards within the skull in the fore part of the temporal region ; a point two inches above the zygoma and two inches behind the level of the external angular process marks the spot where the vessel is leaving the deep groove or canal which it occupies on the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The extent downwards of the cerebrum is indicated by a line drawn in the direction of the eyebrow about one-sixth of an inch above the upper margin of the orbit, and then carried backwards and downwards on the side of the head over the posterior root of the zygoma to the external occipital protuberance. The bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius corre- sponds to a point one inch and a quarter behind, and a quarter of an inch above the level of, the external angular process ; from this point the anterior limb of the fissure ascends almost vertically for nearly an inch, while the posterior limb runs backwards and a little upwards for a distance of about tln-ee inches, and terminates beneath the parietal eminence. The upper end of the furrow of Rolando is placed about half an inch behind a point midway between the root of the nose and the external occipital protuberance ; its lower end is close to the posterior limb, and about an inch behind the bifurcation, of the fissure of Sylvius. The external parieto-occipital fissure is directed transversely outwards, for somewhat less than an inch, from the apex of the lambdoid suture, the latter spot being situated between two and three inches above the external occipital protuberance. In the face proper, the nasal bones and the margin of the anterior nasal aperture are readily traced, and at the lower part of the latter, in the root of the columna nasi, the anterior nasal spine is felt. In front of this opening the form of the upper and lower lateral cartilages can be distinguished, and the inner portion of the latter is more clearly made out by passing the finger into the nostril, by 'which means part of the cartilage of the septum, the lower margin of the upper lateral cartilage, and sometimes the tip of the inferior turbinate bone can also be felt. Below the base of the zygoma, the temporo-maxillary articulation is quite superficial behind the upper part of the masseter, and from the condyle the posterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw can be fol- lowed to the angle. The lower margin of the jaw can also be feltSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TIIE HEAD. 609 throughout, find ascending from its central point the anterior edge of the masseter. Immediately in front of the latter, the facial artery crosses the base of the jaw, and is readily found by its pulsation : the course of the vessel is roughly marked by a line passing upwards a little outside the corner of the mouth and continued by the side of the nose to the inner canthus of the eye. The coronary branch of the artery may be felt pulsating beneath the mucous membrane in each lip very near its free border. Stenson’s duct runs generally in the direction of a line drawn from the lower margin of the concha of the ear to a point midway between the ala of the nose and the free margin of the lip, but it varies somewhat in position in different subjects ; accompanying the duct are the transverse facial vessels and the infraorbital branches of the facial nerve. The interval between the ramus of the jaw and the mastoid process is occupied by the parotid gland, a part of which extends forwards over the masseter muscle, and the trunk of the facial nerve is deeply placed beneath the gland ; the position of the nerve may be indi- cated” by a line running downwards and forwards from the anterior border of the mastoid process at the point where it meets the ear. A line carried downwards over the face, crossing the supraorbital notch and the interval between the two bicuspid teeth of the lower jaw, will be found to be nearly vertical and to pass over the infraorbital and mental fora- mina, thus forming a guide to the spots at which the largest cutaneous branches of the three trunks of the fifth nerve come to the surface. About the anterior half of the eyeball can be felt in the aperture of the orbit ; it gives a tense elastic sensation to the fingers. At the upper and inner angle of the orbital opening the pulley of the superior oblique muscle may also be felt. The skin of the eyelid is very soft and thin ; at the free margin of each lid it passes into the conjunctiva along the line of the eyelashes, and within this a sharp edge is formed, especially in the case of the lower lid, which is closely applied to the surface of the eyeball. The palpebral fissure is somewhat oval, or widely fusiform, in shape, but the margin of the upper lid is more arched than that of the lower. The fissure is also generally a, little inclined from vbthout inwards and downwards. The whole length of the palpebral fissure is about an inch and a quarter ; its breadth is scarcely sufficient, unless when the eyes are unusually widely opened, to expose the whole of the cornea ; but these dimensions, especially the latter, vary considerably in different persons, thus causing the eye to appear larger or smaller, although the size of the globe itself is relatively very constant. At the outer canthus, the lids meet in an acute angle ; at the inner, the fissure is prolonged downwards and inwards for about a quarter of an inch between portions of the lid- margins, which are straight and rounded. The junction of the curved and straight portions of the margin is marked by a slight elevation, the papilla lachrymalis, which is much better developed in the lower lid than the upper, and on drawing the lid forwards a minute opening, the pundum lachrymale, is seen on the summit of the papilla, leading into the canaliculus by which the tears are conveyed into the lachrymal sac. In the neighbourhood of the inner canthus the lids are separated from the eyeball by the caruncula lachrymalis, a red fleshy-looking portion of skin, which supports a few fine hairs, and by the fold of mucous mem- brane known as the plica semilunaris. The lids can be readily everted, the lower one by simply pulling it070 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. downwards, the upper one by turning it over a probe, and the ocular and palpebral conjunctiva can thus be completely examined ; the former is transparent and smooth, presenting only a few minute vessels in the healthy state ; the latter is more or less red and velvetty in appearance. The Meibomian glands are seen at the same time, appearing through the conjunctiva as lines of yellowish granules arranged perpendicularly to the edges of the lids, and along the latter the openings of their ducts are visible in the form of minute spots within the line of the eyelashes. If the eyelids are drawn forcibly outwards, the internal tarsal ligament, or tendo oculi, is made to project between the inner canthus and the margin of the orbit, and this band can also be felt as it is tightened during the act of winking. Behind the tarsal ligament, and reaching to a somewhat higher level, is the lachrymal sac, and into the latter the canaliculi open, taking a course from the puncta. lachrymalia, at first vertically, and then nearly horizontally, the one above and the other below the ligament. A knife entered immediately below the internal tarsal ligament will open the lower part of the lachrymal sac, and a probe may then be passed through the incision, in a direction downwards and slightly backwards and outwards, along the nasal duct into the nose. On looking into the mouth, the teeth are seen, and by everting the lips, the outer surface of the gums may be inspected, and the alveolar processes can be examined with the finger. The smooth mucous mem- brane lining the lips is thus exposed, and in the middle line, passing from each lip to the jaw, is a thin fold termed the frgenum ; of these the upper one is the larger. On pulling the angle of the mouth out- wards, the lining membrane of the inside of the cheek can be examined, and the papilla on which the duct of Stenson opens may be seen and felt opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; with some difficulty a fine probe may be made to enter the aperture. A little farther back, if the mouth be alternately opened and shut, it is easy to distinguish the anterior border of the masseter and temporal muscles, as well as the edge and inner surface of the ramus of the jaw. By raising the tongue, the inner aspect of the gums and the floor of the mouth are brought into view. The under surface of the tongue is smooth, and is connected in the middle line with the floor of the mouth by the fraenum linguae, a fold of mucous membrane similar to, but much larger than, the fraena of the lips ; from this a fine line is continued for- wards to the tip of the tongue. Somewhat less than half an inch external to the fraenum, on each side, the ranine vein is clearly seen through the delicate mucous membrane ; the corresponding artery is more deeply placed and does not come into view ; an elevated and fringed line of the mucous membrane lies superficially to these vessels, and may be followed, converging towards its fellow, almost as far as the tip of the tongue. Between the alveolar border and the tongue, on each side, is a well marked ridge of the mucous membrane, directed obliquely forwards and inwards, over the sublingual salivary gland. Each ridge ends close to the middle line in a small papilla, and on this is seen, in the form of a minute spot, the opening of Wharton’s duct, into which a fine probe may be easily passed. On putting back the head, the mucous membrane covering the hard palate, and the soft palate come into view, as well as the uvula, the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces, and the tonsils. The hamular process is plainly felt a little behind and internal to the last671 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TILE HEAD AND NECK. molar tooth, and just in front of this is situated the opening of the posterior palatine canal, through which the largest vessels and nerves of the palate issue. The pterygo-maxillary ligament is to he felt descending from the hamular process to the inferior maxilla, being contained in a more or less .prominent fold of the mucous membrane, which passes between the jaws behind the extremities of the dental arches. Just in front of this, and immediately internal to the last molar tooth, the lingual branch of the fifth nerve runs inwards beneath the mucous membrane to the side of the tongue. Between the posterior pillars of the fauces, a portion of the mucous lining of the hinder wall of the pharynx is seen ; and if the finger be passed behind the tongue, there is no difficulty in feeling the remainder of the back of the pharynx and the epiglottis. By hooking the finger up behind the soft palate, the basilar process of the occipital bone is reached, and the posterior nares and adjacent parts may be explored. In this way also the bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae may be ex- amined, the anterior arch of the atlas being opposite the lower margin of the posterior nares, and the axis corresponding to the soft palate. THE NECK. The front of the neck is divided into an upper, suprahyoid, sul- maxillary, or lujo-mmtal region, and a lower, infrahyoid or hyo-sternal region. The hyoid bone, which forms the boundary line between the two divisions, can be felt in the receding angle below the chin, and it may be examined by fixing the two great cornua between the fingers. The anterior bellies of the digastric muscles form the convex surface in the middle of the suprahyoid region, and outside this on each side the submaxillary gland is both to be felt and seen. The median prominence (pomum Addmi) in the upper part of the infrahyoid region is due to the thy- roid cartilage, and is strongly marked in men, especially those with deep voices, small or indistinct in women and children. Above the thyroid cartilage the finger sinks into the depression (thyro-hyoid space) between that and the hyoid bone ; below the thyroid, the crico-thyroid space and the cricoid cartilage are recognised; and from the latter the finger passes on to the trachea. The rings of the trachea are, however, scarcely to be distinguished, being obscured above by the isthmus of the thyroid body, and below by the muscles and the increasing quantity of fat as the airtube recedes from the surface, the depth of the front of the trachea at the upper border of the sternum amounting to nearly an inch and a half. The lower part of the epiglottis is placed behind the thyro-hyoid space, and still farther back is the upper aperture of the larynx. The rima glottidis is at a lower level, being opposite the middle of the short anterior margin of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage indicates also the termination of the pharynx and the commencement of the oesophagus. Along the side of the neck, the sterno-mastoid muscle runs obliquely from the mastoid part of the temporal bone to the sternum and clavicle; its anterior border, forming the hinder boundary of the anterior triangle of the neck, is thick and prominent, and leads down to the strongly marked sternal head, which passes to the front of the manubrium and gives rise, Avitli its fellow of the opposite side, to the deep suprasternal notch. The posterior border of the muscle is thin, and in its upper part does not sIioav on the surface ; interiorly it becomes evident and is con-072 SUPERFICIAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. tinned into the clavicular head, which is, however, broader and less salient than the sternal origin. A slight depression usually corresponds to an interval between the two heads, and the lower boundary of the depression is formed by the somewhat prominent inner extremity of the clavicle. A needle thrust backwards in this depression and in contact with the end of the clavicle would reach, on the right side, the bifurca- tion of the innominate artery, on the left, the common carotid artery as it passes into the neck. The carotid arteries are situated just beneath the border of the sterno- mastoid muscle, their position being indicated more exactly by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process. The common carotid artery reaches upwards as far as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; above this level, the external and internal carotids are placed side by side, the external being the more anterior, until they pass beneath the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, the position of which may be indicated by a line drawn from the mastoid process to the fore part of the hyoid bone. If deep pressure be made in the situation of the great vessels opposite the cricoid cartilage, the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra (carotid tubercle) can be felt, and the common carotid artery may be compressed against it. This is a little below the spot at which the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the carotid artery, and indicates also the place where the inferior thyroid artery turns inwards, and the vertebral artery usually enters upon its course through the foramina in the transverse processes. The lingual artery runs forwards from the external carotid along the upper margin of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and the hypoglossal nerve takes a similar course close above the artery. At a slightly higher level, the occipital and facial arteries leave the external carotid, the former passing up to the transverse process of the atlas, which may be felt just below and a little in front of the tip of the mastoid process, the latter taking a winding course above the submaxillary gland to the anterior border of the masseter muscle. The superior thyroid artery, arising below the lingual, runs downwards and inwards near the back of the thyroid cartilage, and sends its crico-thyroid branch across the crico- thyroid space. The line of the internal jugular vein is just external to that of the carotid arteries ; the facial vein, more superficial than the artery, courses from the anterior border of the masseter downwards and backwards, to join the main trunk about opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; the middle thyroid vein crosses the common carotid artery near the level of the cricoid cartilage, and the large inferior thyroid veins are situated deeply on the front of the trachea. More superficially placed, and often showing through the skin, are the anterior jugular vein near the middle line, and a communicating branch, frequently of large size, between the facial and anterior jugular veins, lying along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The right and left anterior jugular veins arc generally connected by a cross branch of con- siderable size at the bottom of the suprasternal notch, close to the upper border of the manubrium, and the lower part of each vein is then directed outwards behind the origin of the sterno-mastoid, so that great care must, be exercised, in order not to wound the vessel, in dividing this muscle for the cure of wry-neck.SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE NECK. 673 The position of the tonsil corresponds externally to the angle of the jaw. Behind the sterno-mastoid muscle, between it and the trapezius, is the intermuscular space known as the posterior triangle of the neck ; interiorly, this gives rise to a broad depression, the supraclavicular fossa, in which the omo-hyoid muscle and the brachial plexus may be felt, and in thin persons seen. In the angle between the sterno-mastoid and the clavicle, the third part of the subclavian artery can be felt pulsating, and the circulation in the vessel may be arrested here by pressure directed downwards and backwards against the first rib. The subcla- vian artery, as it crosses the root of the neck, describes a curve with the convexity upwards, having its inner end behind the sterno-clavicular articulation, its outer end beneath the centre of the clavicle, and its mid-point from half an inch ^to an inch above that bone. The left artery is more deeply placed at first than the right, and does not usually rise so high in the neck. The subclavian vein is placed at a lower level, and is, as a rule, entirely under cover of the clavicle. The pleura and lung ascend above the clavicle into the arch formed by the subclavian artery'. The pulsation of the transverse cervical artery may frequently he distinguished a short distance above the clavicle. The external jugular vein runs over the surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the jaw to the centre of the clavicle, and is covered only by the integument and the platysma, the fibres of the latter being nearly parallel to the course of the vein. Near the clavicle, the vein becomes considerably enlarged, being joined, by some branches from the shoulder (transverse cervical and suprascapular), which, with the lower part of the trunk, generally form a more or less dense plexus over the third part of the subclavian artery. About an inch below the tip of the mastoid process, the spinal accessory nervelpasses beneath the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; emerging at, or slightly above, the middle of the posterior border of this muscle, it then continues its oblique course across the posterior triangular space, and sinks beneath the upper border of the trapezius on a level with the sixth or seventh cervical spine ; under the latter muscle, the nerve runs downwards immediately internal to the vertebral border of the scapula. The great auricular and superficial cervical nerves also come out at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid about the middle of its length, and are thence directed, the great auricular upwards to the ear, and the superficial cervical forwards to the front of the neck. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. THE CHEST. On the front of the chest, the greater part of the thoracic wall is concealed on each side by the pectoralis major, the uppermost portion of the muscle extending over the inner half of the clavicle from which it arises, while interiorly, it forms a prominent curved margin, which follows the direction of the fifth costal cartilage. Externally, the upper and lower borders of the muscle converge as it narrows to its insertion ; the former is at first separated from the adjacent anterior margin of the deltoid by the infraclavicular fossa, but lower down the two muscles become closely united ; the lower margin of the pectoralis major leaves VOL. I. xxSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. 674 the chest opposite the fifth rib (at which spot the lowest slip of the pectoralis minor often appears on the surface) and forms, as it passes upwards and outwards to the arm, the rounded anterior axillary fold. The nipple is placed over the outer and lower part of the pectoral muscle, generally between the fourth and fifth ribs, about three-quarters of an inch external to the junction of the bone and cartilage, and rather more than four inches from the middle line ; but its position varies con- siderably in different individuals, and it is not unfrequently, especially in fat persons and in females, at a much lower level. Along the middle line, the sternum is subcutaneous at the bottom of the sternal groove or f urrow between the great pectoral muscles. The furrow is interrupted towards the upper part by a slight, but distinct, transverse ridge, due to the manner in which the manubrium and body of the sternum are united together, and on each side of this the second costal cartilage, which projects forwards more than the others, continues the prominence outwards. Interiorly, the sternal furrow opens out, as the pectoral muscles diverge from one another, exposing the lower end of the body of the sternum, a spot which is always to be readily felt, and usually distinctly seen, owing to the formation of the infrasternal depression immediately below it. The infrasternal depression, (pit of the stomach, scrobiculus cordis) is a generally well marked, although variable, hollow between the seventh costal cartilages and the upper ends of the recti muscles, and is placed over the ensiform process, which is itself seldom visible on the surface. To the outer side of the pectoralis major, the ribs are covered by the serratus magnus. Of the digitations of this muscle, the first to appear, at the lower margin of the pectoralis major, is the one attached to the fifth rib; the following one, the sixth, is the largest and most prominent, and they become less marked below this. Below the pectoral muscle, the wall of the thorax is covered by the rectus abdominis internally, and the external oblique laterally, the pointed slips of the latter muscle being received between the digitations of the serratus magnus. More posteriorly, the latissimus dorsi ascends over the hinder part of the serratus, and, winding round the teres major muscle, forms the thick posterior fold of the axilla. The ribs may generally be followed without difficulty over the front and sides of the chest ; but only a very small portion of the first can be distinguished, as it is almost completely covered by the clavicle and scapula. The width of the intercostal spaces, and the form of the subcostal angle vary greatly in accordance with the shape of the chest. Thus, in a long narrow chest the lower ribs slope very much downwards and are near to one another, the subcostal angle is narrow, and the lateral margin of the thorax reaches nearly to the iliac crest. It will be remembered that the upper margin of the sternum is on a level (during expiration) with the disc between the second and third dorsal vertebrae ; the junction of the manubrium and body is opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra ; and the xiphi-sternal articulation generally corresponds to the lower part of the ninth dorsal vertebra. The apex of the lung rises above the upper limit of the thorax into the neck, where it is placed behind the interval between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The height to which it extends above the clavicle ranges in ordinary circumstances from half an inch to an inch, but sometimes it is as much as an inch and three-quarters, whileSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. 675 in other cases the lung docs not project at all above the bone. A resonant percussion-note may, however, be obtained in the living sub- ject as far as three-quarters of an inch above the level of the apex, owing to the obliquity of the surface of the neck. The distance of the apex from the clavicle is actually diminished during inspiration, since that bone is then moved upwards with the anterior end of the first rib. There does not appear to be any constant difference in the extent upwards of the lung on the two sides (Pansch). From the apex, the anterior border of each lung inclines inwards behind the sterno-clavicular articulation and the manubrium, to the junction of the latter with the body of the sternum, where the two almost meet in the middle line ; they then descend together, the right sometimes projecting a little to the left of the mid-line, as far as the fourth costal cartilage ; from this point the margin of the right lung continues a nearly straight course to the level of the sixth chondro-sternal articulation (sometimes even to the lower end of the body of the sternum), while that of the left slopes out- wards behind the fifth costal cartilage, in a direction which may be indicated with sufficient accuracy by a line drawn from the fourth chondro-sternal articulation of the left side to the spot on the chest-wall corresponding to the apex of the heart (see below). The lower limit of the lung may be marked by a line; slightly convex downwards, carried round the side of the chest from the sixth chondro- sternal articulation to the tenth dorsal spine. In the mammary line, the lung extends downwards to the sixth rib; opposite the posterior fold cf the axilla, to the eighth rib ; and in the scapular line (carried ver- tically downwards from the lower angle of the scapula, while the arms are against the sides), to the tenth rib. This margin of the lung descends considerably in inspiration, and rises in expiration. The position of the great fissure in each lung may be ascertained approxi- mately by drawing a line from the second dorsal spine to the sixth rib in the nipple-line; and the smaller fissure of the right lung extends from the middle of the foregoing to the junction of the fourth costal •cartilage with the sternum. The pleura reaches considerably farther downwards than the lung. Posteriorly, its lower margin corresponds most frequently to the head of the twelfth rib, or the eleventh dorsal spine ; it is seldom higher than this, but often lower, in many cases extending as much as an inch beyond the spot mentioned. Being directed at first horizontally outwards, its line then ascends gradually over the side of the chest, and passes behind the seventh costal cartilage to the sternum, on the left side extending •considerably farther over the pericardium than the corresponding lung. At the side of the chest, the line of reflection of the pleura is generally from two to three inches above the lower margin of the thorax : towards the front, it is usually a little lower on the left side than the right. The upper limit of the heart is represented by a horizontal line at the level of the second costal cartilages ; the lower limit by a line drawn somewhat obliquely, and with a slight downward convexity, from the junction of the seventh costal cartilage of the right side with the sternum to the apex, the latter point being in the fifth intercostal space, about three and a half inches to the left of the middle line, and generally about an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch to the sternal side of, the nipple. The right border of the heart is indicated by a line carried from the second to the seventh chondro-sternal articulation, and arching out- x x 2SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. 670 wards to a distance of one inch and a half from the middle line ; the left border, by an oblique line, convex upwards, extending from the second left costal cartilage to the apex. The area thus marked out corresponds Fig. 308. Fig. 368.—Front view of the trunk, showing the relative positions of the principal thoracic and abdominal viscera, &c. (from a drawing by R. J. Grodlee). (0. D. T.) i The outlines of the lungs and their large fissures are indicated hy thin lines ; the posi- tion of the heart and great vessels (superior vena cava, arch of aorta and pulmonary artery), as well as below the abdominal aorta and the common and external iliac arteries, by thick lines; the liver is represented by a broken line; the stomach and transverse colon by thick dotted lines ; and the kidneys by thin dotted lines.SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE CHEST. G7? to what is known as the deep cardiac did mss, although the latter can hardly be traced above the third costal cartilages ; the superficial cardiac dulness corresponds to that part of the heart which is uncovered by lung, and thus begins at the inner end of the fourth left cartilage, extends to the left almost to the apex, to the right as far as the middle line, and below merges into the dulness which answers to the liver. The pulmonary orifice is placed opposite the upper margin of the third left costal cartilage, close to the sternum, whence the artery proceeds up- wards to its bifurcation behind the second costal cartilage of the same side, which is therefore termed the -pulmonary cartiku/e. The orifice of the aorta is below and a little internal to the pulmonary orifice, being behind the sternum, close to the lower border of the third left cartilage ; from this spot the ascending part of the arch passes across to the right edge of the sternum opposite the second (aortic) cartilage, and the transverse part then returns to the left side, crossing the middle line about an inch from the suprasternal depression. Opposite the middle point of the manubrium, the innominate and left common carotid arteries are arising close together from the upper border of the arch of the aorta, and they pass symmetrically upwards, the innominate to the back of the right, and the carotid to the back of the left steruo-clavicular articulation. The superior vena cava lies to the right of the arch, behind the inner ends of the first and second intercostal spaces ; and the left innominate vein, resting on the upper border of the arch, is just below the upper margin of the sternum. It sometimes happens, however, especially in children, that the arch of the aorta is placed at a higher level than usual, and then the left innominate vein projects upwards into the neck. In other cases the innominate artery is longer than usual, and may be felt pulsating in the suprasternal fossa. The auriculo-ventricular openings of the heart are lower down than the arterial orifices, being behind the sternum, the left opposite the fourth costal cartilage, the right opposite the fourth interspace. The internal mammary artery descends behind the costal cartilages, and across the inner ends of the upper six intercostal spaces, about half an inch from the margin of the sternum ; and there is occasionally another considerable artery running downwards on the inner surface of the ribs along the side of the thorax (p. 401). The intercostal vessels are lodged for the greater part of their extent in the grooves beneath the lower edges of the ribs, by which they are thus protected. THE ABDOMEN. The superficial limits of the abdomen are formed above by the lower margin of the thorax, and below by Poupart’s ligament and the iliac crest on each side, the former corresponding to the curved inguinal furrow. The abdominal cavity, however, extends considerably beyond these limits, both upwards into the vault of the diaphragm, under cover of the lower ribs and their cartilages, and downwards into the hollow of the pelvis. The abdomen is arbitrarily divided into nine regions by two horizontal and as many vertical lines. The horizontal lines are drawn, one at the level of the lowest part of the wall of the thorax on each side, and the other between the highest points of the iliac crests : the vertical lines pass upwards on each side from the middle of Poupart’s ligament. Of the spaces bounded by these lines, the three central ones are called678 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. respectively, from above downwards, epigastric, umbilical, and hypo- gastric, and the lateral ones, right and left hypochondriac, lumbar, Fig. 369. Fig. 369.—Outline of the front of THE ABDOMEN, SHOWING THE DIVISION INTO REGIONS. 1, epigastric region ; 2, umbilical; 3, hypogastric ; 4, 4, right and left hypo- chondriac ; 5, 5, right and left lumbar ; 6, 6, right and left iliac. and iliac. The lowest portion of the hypogastric region, being- covered with hair, is also referred to as the pubes or pubic region ; and the adjacent parts of the iliac and hypogastric regions together constitute what is known as the inguinal region or the groin. The viscera which are contained in the several regions are shown in the following table :— Epigastric region Hypochondriac, right... Hypochondriac, left ... Umbilical Lumbar, right Lumbar, left Hypogastric Iliac, right Iliac, left ' The greater part or the whole of the left lobe, and part of the right lobe of the liver, with the gall- bladder, part of the stomach including both orifices, the first and second parts of the duodenum, the pan- creas, upper or inner end of the spleen, parts of the kidneys, and the suprarenal capsules. The greater part of the right lobe of the liver, the ( hepatic flexure of the colon, and part of the right ‘| kidney. 'r Part of the stomach, with the greater portion of I the spleen and the tail of the pancreas, the splenic - flexure of the colon, part of the left kidney, and ( sometimes a part of the left lobe of the liver. / The greater part of the transverse colon, the third ' part of the duodenum, some convolutions of the jeju- num and ileum, with portions of the mesentery and I great omentum, and part of both kidneys. ( The ascending colon, part of the right kidney, and | part of the ileum. C The descending colon, part of the left kidney, and 'I part of the jejunum. I The convolutions of the ileum, the bladder in ' children, and if distended in adults also, the uterus when in the gravid state, and behind, the sigmoid ( flexure and upper part of the rectum. ( The cecum with the vermiform appendage, and the ( termination of the ileum. j The sigmoid flexure of the colon, convolutions of l the jejunum and ileum. The Avail of the abdomen is formed at the front and sides mainly by muscles, and the forms to be recognised on the surface are for the most part to be referred to these. Anteriorly, the rectus muscle extends on679 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ABDOMEN. each side of the middle line from the pelvis to the thorax, its tendinous inscriptions producing transverse furrows, of which two arc commonly to be recognised, one opposite, or just below, the tip of the ensiform process, and the other about midway between this and the umbilicus. Between the two recti is a median groove (abdominal furrow) continued downwards from the infrasternal fossa, along the surface of the linea alba, as far as, or a little beyond, the umbilicus, where it gradually dis- appears owing to the approximation and eventual union of the muscles of the two sides. The lower ends of the recti are concealed by a small accumulation of fat. The position of the umbilicus is subject to considerable variation, but it is always below the centre of the distance between the xiphi-sternal articulation and the symphysis pubis. It is generally a little (half an inch to an inch) above the highest point of the iliac crest, and about opposite the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae. The convex surface of the side of the abdomen is formed by the fleshy part of the external oblique muscle, and between this and the outer edge of the rectus there is a shallow depression over the upper portion of the linea semilunaris : this depression terminates above, at the margin of the thorax, in a somewhat triangular fossa, the upper boundary of which is formed by the rounded ninth costal cartilage. In the inguinal region, the external abdominal ring is placed imme- diately above and external to the spine of the pubis, which can always be readily felt, as well as the common attachment of the outer pillar of the ring and Poupart’s ligament. By invaginating the scrotum at some distance from the aperture, the finger may be passed through the ring into the lower part of the inguinal canal. The internal or deep abdomi- nal ring is situated about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament, opposite a spot midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis pubis ; and the deep epigastric artery runs upwards close to the inner side of this opening, in the direction of a line inclining inwards towards the umbilicus. If the inguinal canal has been enlarged by the presence of an old hernia, the rings are almost opposite to one another, and the finger may be passed through them and can explore the sur- rounding parts in the interior of the abdomen. The superficial epigastric vein is often seen through the skin, and it may frequently be observed to communicate with another vein that passes up into the armpit to join the axillary vein, especially if there be any obstruction to the return of the blood through the inferior vena cava. The liver, which occupies the whole of the arch of the diaphragm on the right, as well as a small part on the left side, is placed for the most part under cover of the ribs. In the right hypochondriac region, its lower margin just corresponds to the lower border of the thorax, but in the epigastric region, a part of both right and left lobes comes into contact with the abdominal wall ; the margin of this part runs obliquely across the subcostal angle from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage, and crosses the middle line about a hand’s breadth below the xiphi-sternal articulation. The gall-bladder projects beyond this margin opposite the ninth costal cartilage, and close to the outer edge of the rectus muscle. The extent of the liver upwards, if traced on the surface of the body, is indicated by a line crossing the mesosternum close to its lower end, and rising on the right side to the level of the fifth chondro-SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. 680 sternal articulation, on the left to that of the sixth ; it does not usually reach more than an inch and a half or two inches beyond the left margin of the sternum. It must be borne in mind, however, that the liver is subject to great variations, not only in size, but also in position, both tem- porarily and permanently. Thus, it sinks with inspiration, and rises in expiration ; it descends slightly on assuming the upright position ; and it is frequently moved downwards by alterations in the shape of the chest. It is relatively very large in the infant and child, and extends across far into the left hypochondriac region. In adults, the margin of the liver is seldom to be felt below the ribs on the right side during health, unless the abdominal wall be unusually thin. The stomach lies in the left hypochondriac and the epigastric regions, in the latter being partly covered by the liver and partly in contact with the abdominal wall. Its cardiac orifice is situated behind the seventh costal cartilage of the left side, about an inch from the sternum : the pylorus is from two to three inches below the xiphi-sternal articulation, and, when the stomach is contracted, immediately to the right of the mesial plane ; but when the stomach is distended, the pylorus moves considerably to the right. The fundus of the stomach is directed upwards into the left portion of the vault of the diaphragm, and reaches under ordinary circumstances to the level of, or somewhat higher than, the sixth chondro-sternal articulation, being a little above (and behind) the apex of the heart. The great curvature of the stomach is directed at first to the left, and afterwards downwards, the latter part reaching, with a moderate degree of distension of the organ, about as far as the line separating the epigastric from the umbilical regions. The transverse colon passes across in the upper part of the umbilical region, following closely the great curvature of the stomach. The cfecum is comparatively superficial in the right iliac region ; the ascending colon and the hepatic flexure are deeply placed in the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions. The splenic flexure reaches a much higher level than the hepatic, and is situated behind the stomach in the left hypochondriac region, while the descending colon occupies the hinder part of the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions. Deep pressure on the left side detects the sigmoid flexure as it passes over the brim of the pelvis, in thin persons even when comparatively empty ; if distended with fasces, it forms a distinct tumour in this situation. The intestines below the stomach are all covered more or less com- pletely by the great omentum. The coils of the small intestine occupy the anterior part of the belly below the transverse colon, those of the jejunum being principally found above, those of the ileum below. In children under ordinary circumstances, and in adults when it is distended, the bladder rises out of the pelvis into the hypogastric region, being closely applied to the anterior abdominal wall without the inter- vention of peritoneum for some distance above the pubis ; if the distension be excessive, the bladder may reach as far as the umbilicus. The kidneys, being situated at the back of the abdominal cavity, are not to be felt under normal conditions, or at most the right is at times to be detected. They occupy on each side a part of the lumbar, hypo- chondriac, epigastric, and umbilical regions. The inferior extremity of the right kidney (which, it will be remembered, is the lower of the two) scarcely reaches to the level of the umbilicus. The pancreas crosses the spine about three inches above the umbilicus;G8L SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE BACK. and the third part of the duodenum is placed at a lower level, reaching to within about an inch of the umbilicus. The abdominal aorta passes downwards usually a little to the left of the mid-line of the body, although its lower end often occupies a mesial position, or may even extend over slightly to the right. The bifurcation occurs on the average about three-quarters of an inch below the um- bilicus, and the direction of the common and external iliac arteries is indicated by drawing a line from this point to another midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The inferior vena cava lies just to the right of the aorta. The coeliac axis arises opposite the lower part of the last dorsal vertebra, i.e., between four and five inches above the umbilicus ; the superior mesenteric artery a very little lower ; the two renal arteries about three and a half inches, and the inferior mesenteric about one inch above the umbilicus. THE BACK. At the back of the neck, a slight mesial depression, commencing immediately below the external occipital protuberance, descends over the ligamentum undue, between the prominences formed by the complexus and trapezius muscles of the two sides. By pressing deeply in this furrow, the spine of the axis is readily felt, and generally also the spines of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae less distinctly. The furrow disappears gradually towards the root of the neck, where the spines of the seventh cervical and upper one or two dorsal vertebras become visible. The first spine to appear is usually that of the seventh cervical vertebra, but sometimes the sixth is long and comes to the surface : the most prominent is the first dorsal. They necessarily project more plainly when the neck is inclined forwards. Below these, the long spinal farrow descends in the middle line between the elevations formed by the erector spinas muscles covered above by the trapezius and below by the latissimus dorsi. The furrow is deepest in the lower dorsal and upper lumbar regions, where the muscles are thickest and most fleshy ; in the lower lumbar region and over the upper part of the sacrum, the erector muscles are tendinous, and give rise to a somewhat lozenge- shaped flattened area through which the groove is continued, becoming gradually shallower, to terminate at the spine of the third piece of the sacrum (last sacral spine) in the angle formed by the meeting of the right and left gluteus maximus muscles. A little above and external to the latter point, a slight depression indicates the position of the posterior superior iliac spine. At the bottom of the spinal furrow, the spines may be felt and counted, the middle dorsal ones generally with considerable difficulty in the erect position, but most of them are rendered very evident by bending the column forwards. The fourth lumbar spine is on a level with the highest part of the crest of the ilium. The spine of the scapula is easily felt beneath the skin, and may be traced outwards (very little upwards when the arm is hanging) to the acromion, which is represented on the surface by a depression in a muscular subject, or when the arm is raised. The lower border of the spine and the outer border of the acromion meet in a prominent angle, which is always to be distinctly recognised on the surface ; from this point measurements of the length of the arm are most conveniently taken. The vertebral border and the inferior angle of the scapula are682 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE TRUNK. seen, although covered for the most part by muscles, the former by the trapezius, the latter by the latissimus dorsi. The superior border cannot usually be distinguished, but the axillary border can be felt more or less distinctly through its thick muscular covering. With the arms hanging by the side, the upper angle of the scapula corresponds to the upper border of the second rib, or the interval between the first and second dorsal spines ; the lower angle to the seventh intercostal space (some- times the eighth rib) or the interval between the seventh and eighth dorsal spines ; and the root of the spine of the scapula to the interval between the third and fourth dorsal spines. The vertebral border of the bone is at the same time nearly but not quite perpendicular, its lower end being inclined a little outwards. At the inner end of the spine of the scapula, a slight depression in- dicates the triangular tendon in which the lower fibres of the trapezius end ; and a slight groove, which is seen at times passing upwards and outwards over the surface of the eminence formed by the erector spin*, in the direction of a line from one of the lowest dorsal spines to the triangular tendon, marks the lower edge of the muscle. Immediately above the spine of the scapula is a convex surface formed by the thickest part of the trapezius covering the supraspinatus muscle ; and above this, the sloping surface leading down from the neck to the shoulder is formed by the upper part of the trapezius, supported by the levator anguli scapulae and by fat. The lower ribs are to be felt through the latissimus dorsi, outside the edge of the erector spin* ; but it must be borne in mind that the twelfth rib is often very short and does not project beyond the margin of the erector muscle, so that the lowest rib that can then be felt is the eleventh. The ribs should, therefore, always be counted from above downwards, and not from below upwards. The lower end of the larynx and pharynx, and the commencement ot the trachea and oesophagus are about on a level with the interval between the sixth and seventh cervical spines. From this spot the trachea descends in the middle line, and divides opposite the fourth dorsal spine into the two bronchi, which are thence directed outwards and downwards, the right more transversely than the left. The apex of the lung, corresponding to the neck of the first rib, extends up to the level of the seventh cervical spine. Mesially, the lungs touch the sides of the bodies of the vertebra ; and interiorly, they reach down to the tenth dorsal spine, the pleura to the eleventh or even lower, as has already been described (p. 075). The oesophagus, from its commencement, inclines at first somewhat to the left, but regains the middle line about the fifth dorsal vertebra ; in its lower part it is deflected more considerably to the left, and it termi- nates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach on a level with (or a little above) the ninth dorsal spine. The pyloric orifice of the stomach is to the right of the twelfth dorsal spine. The arch of the aorta reaches the left side of the vertebral column just above the fourth dorsal spine, and the descending aorta passes downwards, gradually inclining to the front of the column, to bifurcate at a spot in, or close to, the middle line, on a level with the fourth lumbar spine. The cccliac axis arises opposite the twelfth dorsal, the renal arteries opposite the first lumbar spine. The convex surface of the spleen looks backwards and somewhat out-SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE BACK. 6S3 Fig. 370. Fig. 370.—Posterior view of the trunk, showing the relative positions of the principal thoracic and abdominal yiscera, &c. (from a drawing by R. J. Godlee). (Or. D. T.) i The several objects are indicated in the same manner as in fig. 368, the trachea and lungs by thin lines, the aorta by thick lines, the liver, pancreas and spleen by broken lines, the oesophagus, stomach, ascending and descending colon by thick dotted lines, and the kidneys by thin dotted lines ; x , x , seventh cervical and first lumbar spines.684 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF TIIE UPPER LIME. wards. It is placed beneath the ninth, tenth and eleventh ribs of the left side, being separated from them by the diaphragm, and at its upper part also by the lung. It lies very obliquely, its long axis coinciding almost exactly with the line of the tenth rib. Its highest and lowest points are on a level respectively with the ninth dorsal and first lumbar spines; its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer end about reaches the mid- axillary line. The upper end of the left kidney reaches to the level of the eleventh dorsal spine ; the lower end is nearly two inches from the iliac crest, and a little below the level of the second lumbar spine ; the hilus is about two inches from the middle line, and opposite the first lumbar spine. The right kidney is generally from half to three-quarters of an inch lower than the left. The ascending and descending portions of the colon pass vertically along the outermost part of the right and left kidneys respectively ; the part of the intestine which is in contact with the abdominal wall is placed immediately behind a line carried vertically upwards from the central point of the iliac crest. The pancreas crosses the spinal column opposite the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar spines, and the third part of the duodenum immediately below the latter. The relation of the origins of the spinal nerves to the spinous processes of the vertebrae may be summed up as follows.—The eight cervical nerves occupy the part of the spinal cord from its commence- ment to the level of the sixth cervical spine ; the upper six dorsal nerves, from the seventh cervical to the fourth dorsal spine ; the lower six dorsal nerves, from the fifth to the tenth dorsal spine ; the five lumbar nerves arise opposite the eleventh and twelfth dorsal spines ; and the five sacral nerves correspond to the first lumbar spine. (See, for farther details, W. R. Gowers, “ The Diagnosis of Diseases of the Spinal Cord,” London, 1880, p. G.) SUPERFICIAL ANATOHY OF THE UPPER LIMB. THE SHOULDER. In the region of the shoulder, the outer part of the clavicle and the acromion process of the scapula can be distinctly felt beneath the skin, and the extremity of the former bone usually gives rise to a marked elevation at its junction with the acromion. The rounded prominence of the shoulder is formed immediately by the thick deltoid muscle, but it is also due in great measure to the large upper extremity of the humerus, which can be felt moving under the muscle as the arm is rotated. Close to the inner side of the shoulder-joint, and just below the clavicle, the coracoid process is to be recognised ; and by pressing deeply in the axilla when the arm is abducted, the lower margin of the glenoid cavity and the head of the humerus are also to be felt. The adjacent margins of the deltoid and pectoralis major are closely united together at their lower parts, so that the division between the two muscles is not indicated on the surface ; but superiorly, they are separated by a triangular interval of variable breadth, which gives rise to the well marked wfraclavicalar fossa. By pressing deeply in this fossa, the axillary artery may be compressed against the second rib. TheSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE SHOULDER AND ARM. 685 back of the shoulder is flattened, and sloped from within outwards and a little forwards, owing to the oblique position of the scapula; and the hinder portion of the deltoid, which is thinner than the anterior, is tendinous at its origin, and adheres closely to the subjacent infraspinatus muscle, so that the upper part of its margin is not indicated upon the surface. The infraspinatus is continued into the teres minor, and below the latter muscle is the thick teres major, with the latissimus dorsi winding round it, forming the posterior fold of the axilla. When the arm is abducted, the middle portion of the deltoid, being brought into action, is seen to present an irregular surface, the prominences corre- sponding to the separate fleshy portions of the muscle, and the depressions to the tendinous septa extending downwards from the acromion. The course of the axillary artery is marked upon the surface by a line drawn from the mid-point of the clavicle to the inner border of the elevation formed by the coraco-brachialis muscle (see below). If the limb be raised from the side, the third part of the artery may be felt pulsating beneath the integument and fascia (the vein intervening) as it passes into the arm, being placed at the junction of the anterior and middle thirds of the space between the axillary folds. The artery may be readily compressed here against the humerus. The posterior circum- flex vessels and the circumflex nerve are winding round the back of the humerus under cover of the deltoid, at the junction of the upper and the middle thirds of the muscle. THE ARM. The shaft of the humerus is for the most part thickly covered by the muscles of the arm, and can only be felt with difficulty ; but just below the insertion of the deltoid the bone comes nearer to the surface, and from this spot the outer border, or the external supracondylar ridge, can be followed down to the outer condyle, along the bottom of a furrow over the external intermuscular septum, between the supinator longus and triceps muscles. The internal supracondylar ridge is less prominent, and not so readily felt. Along the fore and inner part of the arm (when hanging naturally by the side) is the eminence formed by the biceps muscle, extending, with a slight inclination outwards below, from the anterior margin of the axilla to the elbow. Superiorly, this is continued into a narrow eleva- tion produced by the coraco-brachialis muscle, which issues from between the anterior and posterior axillary folds. Two depressions, the inner and outer bicipital furrows, are found on the inner and outer side respectively of the prominence of the biceps ; along the outer of these the cephalic vein may generally be seen ascending beneath the skin ; in the inner, which is better marked, are placed the basilic vein (in its lower half or less superficial to the fascia), the brachial vessels and the median nerve. The brachial artery is usually overlapped to a greater or less extent by the margin of the biceps, but it can be felt pulsating throughout. Pressure should be applied to the vessel from within outwards in the upper half of the arm, from before backwards in the lower. On the outer side of the biceps, a portion of the brachialis anticus comes to the surface, and beyond that the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior form a prominence which descends to the forearm in front of the external condyle ; the supinator muscle shows verySUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER LIMB. 686 plainly if the elbow be forcibly flexed with the band in a state of semi- pronation. On the inner side of the biceps, in the lower part of the arm, a smaller portion of the brachialis anticus is superficial, and between this and the triceps, the internal intermuscular septum can be felt, with the ulnar nerve close behind it, descending to the internal condyle. The form of the back of the arm is determined by the triceps muscle, the three heads of which, together with the large tendon of insertion, are to be recognized when the muscle is called into play. The inner head is the least distinct; the outer head forms a large prominence immedi- ately below the hinder border of the deltoid ; the long head can be seen issuing from between the teres major and minor muscles, and descending along the middle of the back of the arm ; while the tendon is represented by a depressed area, leading down to the olecranon process of the ulna. The musculo-spiral nerve begins to incline backwards immediately below the posterior fold of the axilla, and crosses the back of the humerus obliquely from within outwards in its middle third, being covered by the triceps muscle, and accompanied by the superior profunda vessels. At, or a little above, the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the arm, the nerve perforates the external intermuscular septum, and it then descends in front of the outer supracondylar ridge to the level of the external condyle, where it divides into the radial and posterior interosseous nerves. The former takes a straight course downwards to join the artery of the same name below the elbow ; but the posterior interosseous is directed backwards across the outer side of the radius in its upper fourth, to gain the back of the forearm. THE ELBOW. At the elbow, the internal and external condyles come to the surface, and also the olecranon process of the ulna. The internal condyle, which, it wi 1 be remembered, is directed more backwards than inwards, is very pro- minent, and forms one of the most important bony landmarks of the limb. The external condyle, together with the common tendon of the extensor muscles of the forearm, gives rise, when the joint is extended, to a well- marked depression at the outer and back part of the elbow, between the supinator longus and extensor carpi radialis longior muscles externally, and the anconeus internally. If the elbow be semi-flexed, the condyle is slightly prominent ; and in extreme flexion, the outer part of the triceps muscle is stretched over the capitellum of the humerus, which forms a rounded eminence to the outer side of the point of the elbow (olecranon), while the condyle itself is no longer visible. The olecranon is subcutaneous at its posterior surface, its upper end being entirely covered by the insertion of the triceps ; its appearance necessarily varies with the position of the joint, as does also the distance between the process and the shoulder. A bursa is interposed between the bone and the skin. At the bend of the elbow, the subcutaneous veins are more or less dis- tinctly visible, according to the quantity of subcutaneous fat ;—the median vein bifurcating into the median-basilic and median-cephalic, which join respectively the ulnar and radial veins to form the basilic and cephalic (p. 510). The median-basilic and median-cephalic A'eins, diverging from each other, pass upwards on either side of the biceps tendon, which is seen, when the elbow is bent, descending from the lower end of the muscular belly into the interval between the two massesSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ELBOW AND FOREARM. 687 of forearm muscles. The sharp upper edge of the bicipital fascia may also be felt, aud, when the muscle is forcibly contracted, seen, as it passes downwards and inwards between the median-basilic vein and the lower part of the brachial artery. THE FOREARM. From the olecranon, the sinuous posterior border of the ulna is to be followed down the forearm, corresponding to a superficial furrow between the ulnar flexor and extensor muscles of the wrist; the border becomes rounded off in the lower third, but a narrow strip of the bone is still sub- cutaneous, leading down to the styloid process. When the hand is supinated, the styloid process of the ulna is exposed at the inner and posterior part of the wrist ; but if the hand he pronated, then the skin is stretched over the opposite (outer) part of the head of the fixed ulna, which projects between the extensor carpi ulnaris and extensor minimi digit! muscles. Close below the outer condyle of the humerus, the head of the radius may be felt moving beneath the muscles as the forearm is alternately pronated and supinated. The upper half of the shaft of the radius is too thickly covered by muscles to be distinctly made out ; the lower half is nearer to the surface, and can be readily examined between and through the surrounding muscles and tendons ; at the lower end, the styloid process is superficial in front and behind, being covered ex- ternally by the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and primi internodii pollicis muscles ; and the prominent outer edge of the groove for the extensor secundi internodii pollicis is also to be distinguished. Along the inner and fore part of the forearm, is the prominence formed by the pronato-flexor muscles, the great mass covering the ulna inter- nally being formed by the flexor profundus digitorum beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris. A short distance below the internal condyle, a slight groove runs obliquely downwards and inwards across the muscles, caused by the prolongation of the fibres of the bicipital fascia. Near the wrist, the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris can be felt, passing down to the pisiform bone, and immediately external to the tendon the beating of the ulnar artery is perceptible. About the centre of the front of the wrist, the tendon of the palmaris longus descends, being the most prominent of all the tendons here, and a little external to this, the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis is also visible. Outside the latter is a hollow in which the radial vessels are placed, and where the pulse is commonly felt: immediately internal to the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, lies the median nerve. Along the outer border of the forearm, the long supinator and radial extensor muscles of the wrist descend, becoming tendinous and smaller below the middle ; and in the lower third of the forearm a smaller pro- minence, directed obliquely downwards, outwards and forwards, results from the presence of the extensor muscles of the thumb crossing over the long tendons. On the back of the forearm are the extensors of the fingers, the extensor carpi ulnaris, and the anconeus, all of which may be individually distinguished in thin persons. Numerous cutaneous veins are seen on the forearm, arising principally from the network on the dorsum of the hand, and forming two main trunks, the posterior ulnar and the radial, which ascend respectively along the inner and outer borders of the limb, and incline forwards to their termination in front of the elbow ; although in many cases another large vein is present (assisting or even replacing the radial vein), whichSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE UPPER LIMB. 688 turns round the outer border of the forearm below the middle to join the median vein. The subcutaneous veins of the lower part of the front of the forearm (also those of the palm) are small, and terminate in the median and anterior ulnar veins. It occasionally happens that the ulnar artery, having been derived from the brachial at a higher level than usual, descends over the pronato-flexor muscles to the wrist, and in that case it would he felt pulsating beneath the skin in the neighbourhood of the anterior ulnar vein (p. 420). The bifurcation of the brachial artery takes place opposite a spot a finger’s breadth below the centre of the bend of the elbow. From this point, the radial artery runs downwards with a straight course to the fore part of the styloid process of the radius, being covered by the supinator longus as far as the centre of the forearm, and superficial beyond this spot. The ulnar artery inclines, Avith a slightly curved course, inwards to the middle of a line drawn from the internal condyle of the humerus to the outer side of the pisiform bone : this line indi- cates in its Avhole extent the direction of the ulnar nerve in the forearm, in its lower half that of the ulnar artery also. The latter is deeply placed beneath the muscles arising from the internal condyle till within an inch of the AATist. THE WRIST AND HAND. At the front of the Avrist, on the inner side, the pisiform bone can be grasped between the fingers, and moved slightly from side to side ; beloAV this the hook of the unciform bone can be felt Avith difficulty. On the outer side, a projection is felt just below and internal to the styloid process of the radius, formed by the tubercle of the scaphoid bone, and close beloiv this, the ridge of the trapezium is also to be dis- tinguished. At the back of the Avrist, on the inner side, the pyramidal bone can be felt, and slightly external to the middle line of the hand is a prominence, sometimes indistinct, but often very Avell marked, formed by the base of the third metacarpal bone. The sesamoid bones of the thumb can be felt, and the metacarpal bones and phalanges can be distinctly followed on the dorsal aspect. At the outer side of the Avrist, when the thumb is extended, there is a deep hulloAv bounded by the prominent tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodi i pollicis anteriorly and the ex- tensor secundi internodii pollicis posteriorly ; the latter tendon may be folloAved doAvn over the metacarpal bone of the thumb almost to its in- sertion. Beneath these tendons, and across the intervening holloAV, the radial artery runs in its course from the front to the back of the wrist ; its direction may be marked by a line drawn from the fore part of the styloid process of the radius to the upper end of the first interosseous space ; and a considerable vein, ascending from the outer part of the hand, is usually to be seen through the skin over the position of the artery. On the back of the hand, the tendons of the extensor communis digi- torum and extensor minimi digiti may all be recognized, together with the connecting band between the innermost slip of the common extensor and the outer portion of the little finger tendon. Between the first and second metacarpal bones is the abductor indicis muscle, Avhich forms a Avell marked prominence Avhen the thumb is brought to the side of the index finger, and below this is the adductor pollicis muscle contained inSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE WRIST AND HAND. 689 the fold of skin passing across between the thumb and the outer margin of the palm. The palm of the hand is concave in the centre, where the skin is tightly adherent to the palmar fascia, and raised on each side. The outer elevation (thenar) is formed by the short muscles of the thumb ; the inner (hypothenar) by the short muscles of the little huger. From the central hollow of the palm a slight groove is continued downwards to each of the fingers, corresponding to the prolongations of the palmar fascia. The palm is traversed generally by four more or less regular lines, representing the folds or “ flexures ” produced in the skin by the movements of the principal joints of the hand. Two of these lines are directed nearly transversely, the others longitudinally. Of the transverse lines, one commences about the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lower fourth of the inner border of the palm, and runs outwards and then downwards to the cleft between the index and middle lingers ; this is caused by bending the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations of the inner three fingers; the second starts nearly opposite the foregoing, at the outer border of the hand, and is directed inwards and somewhat upwards across the middle of the palm; this results mainly from the flexion of the first joint of the index finger. The metacarpo-phalangeal articula- tions are placed about midway between these lines and the web of the fingers. Of the longitudinal lines, one, beginning near the centre of the wrist, curves outwards to join the upper transverse line, and is produced by the opposition of the thumb ; the other runs downwards from the wrist through the centre of the palm to meet the lower transverse line opposite the middle finger, and is caused by the opposition of the fifth metacarpal bone. The four lines give rise to a figure resembling the letter M. At the wrist, two or three lines, directed rather obliquely, outwards and a little downwards, indicate the position of the principal folds formed during flexion of the joint; the radio-carpal articulation is placed about three-quarters of an inch above the lowest of these lines. There are three well-marked transverse grooves on each finger ; the lower and middle ones are nearly opposite the two interphalangeal joints; the upper one, which is produced, as well as the transverse lines of the palm, by bending the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, is placed nearly three-quarters of an inch below the joint, and on a level with the web of the fingers. On the thumb, there are only two grooves, and the proximal, which is less distinct than the other, continues upwards the line of the radial border of the index linger, thus crossing obliquely the ■corresponding articulation. The web of the fingers, containing the superficial transverse ligament, limits the interdigital clefts on the palmar side; on the dorsum of the hand they are continued upwards almost to the metacarpo-phalangeal joints. The superficial palmar arch is placed beneath the palmar fascia, a little above the centre of the palm ; its position may be indicated by a line carried from the outer side of the pisiform bone downwards, and then curving outwards across the middle third of the palm on a level with the upper end of the cleft between the thumb and index huger. From the convex side of the arch digital branches proceed, one to the ulnar margin of the little finger, and three which descend opposite the intervals between the fingers and bifurcate about half an inch above the ■clefts. The deep palmar arch rests against the metacarpal bones about a quarter of an inch nearer the wrist than the superficial arch, and the vol. r. y YSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 690 digital branches given off by the radial artery to the thumb and index linger are deeply placed in the palm, the collateral arteries of the thumb becoming superficial at the base of the first phalanx, that of the index finger issuing from behind the adductor pollicis. The latter branch is not unfrequently derived from the radial artery at the back of the wrist, and may then be felt pulsating as it descends on the posterior surface of the abductor indicis muscle to its destination. The superficial volar artery is occasionally visible as it descends over the upper part of the thenar to the palm. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. THE HIP. The region of the hip, gluteal region or buttock, extends from the subcutaneous iliac crest and the origin of the gluteus maximus muscle above to the fold of the nates, produced by the thick lower margin of the gluteus maximus, below. The surface is formed posteriorly by the gluteus maximus, which is generally covered by a considerable quantity of fat, and laterally by the gluteus medius, together with, at the fore- most part, the tensor vaginae femoris. The latter muscle may be recognized forming a distinct prominence below the anterior part of the iliac crest, especially if the thigh be abducted or rotated inwards. The iliac crest is represented on the surface, in muscular subjects, by a groove (iliac furrow), in consequence of the projection of the external oblique muscle above, and, to a less extent, of the gluteus medius below. Traced forwards, this furrow terminates at the anterior superior iliac spine, which is always easily recognized ; posteriorly, the furrow becomes less marked as the crest passes below the tendinous portion of the erector spinse, but a slight depression always indicates the position of the posterior superior spine. The latter point is on a level with the spinous process of the second sacral vertebra, and immediately behind the centre of the sacro-iliac articulation. From three to four inches below the iliac crest, and somewhat in front of its central point, the great trochanter is to be felt, and in thin persons seen. The trochanter projects outwards farther than the iliac crest, but it does not usually appear as a prominence on the surface owing to the great thickness of the gluteus medius and minimus muscles, which occupy the hollow between it and the ilium. It is entirely covered by the aponeurotic insertion of the upper part of the gluteus maximus, and its upper border, which is generally on a level with the centre of the hip-joint, is obscured by the tendon of the gluteus medius descending to its insertion on the outer side of the process. Immediately behind the great trochanter is a well-marked depression, where the lower portion of the gluteus maximus, after passing over the ischial tuberosity, becomes tendinous and sinks in to be inserted into the shaft of the femur. Beneath the lower border of the gluteus maximus, the tuberosity of the ischium is to be felt, and when the hip is flexed this process is to a great extent uncovered by the muscle. A line drawn over the outer surface of the hip from the anterior superior iliac spine to the most prominent part of the ischial tuberosity is known as Nelaton’s line, and will be found to pass over the top of the great trochanter and cross the centre of the acetabulum. It thus forms a guide to the natural position of the upper end of the femur, and is consequently of service in detecting- dislocations of the hip.691 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HIP AND THIGH. If a line be drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the outer part of the ischial tuberosity, it will cross the posterior inferior spine and the ischial spine : the posterior inferior spine is nearly two inches, and the ischial spine about four inches, below the posterior superior spine : the sciatic artery appears in the buttock at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of this line. The gluteal artery leaves the great sacro- sciatic foramen beneath a spot corresponding to the junction of the inner and middle thirds of a line drawn from the posterior superior iliac spine to the great trochanter, when the thigh is rotated inwards. Between the gluteal and sciatic arteries, the great sciatic nerve leaves the pelvis, and it thence pursues a slightly curved course to a point midway between the great trochanter and the ischial tuberosity. THE THIGH. The thigh is separated from the abdomen in. front by the curved inguinal furrow, at the bottom of which Poupart’s ligament may be felt, more plainly in its inner than in its outer half, as it passes from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the pubic spine: the band is relaxed, and becomes less distinct, on flexing and adducting, or rotating in, the thigh. From the pubic spine, the finger passes along the pubic crest to the front of the symphysis, and thence backwards along the inner margin of the united pubic and ischial rami to the tuberosity of the ischium, thus tracing the boundary line between the thigh and the perineum. Externally, the thigh is not definitely marked off from the region of the hip. Immediately below Poupart’s ligament, a slight hollow is generally seen, corresponding to Scarpa’s triangular space (pp. 242 and 4G7), in which, just internal to the centre, the femoral artery may be felt pulsating. Close below the innermost part of Poupart’s ligament is situated the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, its central point being about an inch and a half below and external to the spine of the pubis. Through the lower part of this aperture the internal saphenous vein passes to join the femoral trunk, and above the vein is the spot where a femoral hernia first makes its appearance on the surface of the thigh. Over and below the opening, the femoral or lower inguinal glands may usually be felt through the skin, surrounding the upper end of the internal saphenous vein. From the apex of Scarpa’s triangle a depression is continued down- Avards along the inner part of the thigh, between the masses formed by the quadriceps extensor muscle in front, and the adductor muscles on the inner side. The sartorius muscle lies along this depression, and may be distinctly seen Avhen it is brought into action by raising the leg across the opposite knee. The form of the rectus muscle may be distinguished along the front of the anterior mass, and to its inner side, in about the lower half of the thigh, the vastus internus gives rise to a large prominence, increasing in size toAvards the knee, Avhile on the outer side of the rectus, the vastus externus forms a broad convex surface, extending from the great trochanter above almost to the knee-joint below, and being con- tinued backwards to the posterior aspect of the limb. The surface formed by the A'astus externus is often seen to be traversed by a longi- tudinal groove, due to the pressure exerted by the strong ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata as it descends from the insertions of the gluteus maximus and tensor vaginae femoris muscles to the outer tuberosity of Y Y 2SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 602 the tibia. Of the adductor muscles, the only parts that are to be separately recognised are the strong tendon of origin of the adductor longus below the pubic crest, and the lower tendon of the adductor magnus which is felt distinctly, when the knee is bent, in the interval between the sartorius and vastus interims muscles, extending down to the adductor tubercle on the internal condyle of the femur. The adductors are not marked off on the surface from the hamstring group on the back of the thigh, nor are the latter muscles to be individually distinguished from one another until they become tendinous near the knee. Along the outer and posterior part of the thigh, however, the hamstring muscles are separated from the vastus externus by a well marked groove, corresponding to the position of the external intermus- cular septum. The whole of the shaft of the femur is deeply placed, and in fairly muscular subjects is not to be detected through its fleshy covering. The head of the bone is situated close below Poupart’s ligament, immediately external to its mid-point, and is occasionally, in thin subjects, to be felt in this position through the overlying muscles. The subcutaneous veins of the thigh all join one trunk, the internal saphenous, which ascends from the hinder part of the inner side of the knee, with a gradual inclination forwards, to the saphenous opening. The extent to which this vein and its branches are to be perceived varies greatly with the amount of subcutaneous fat. The position of the femoral artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis to the prominent tuberosity on the inner condyle of the femur, the hip having been first slightly flexed and the thigh everted. At the junction of the upper three-fourths with the lower fourth of this line, the artery passes backwards through the opening in the adductor magnus muscle. Pressure is most conveniently applied to the vessel as it enters the thigh below Poupart’s ligament, and it should be directed backwards so as to compress the artery against the pubis and the adjacent part of the hip-joint. Lower down, the pressure must be made in a direction backwards and outwards, as the artery lies considerably to the inner side of the shaft of the femur. At Poupart’s ligament, the femoral vein is close to the inner side of the artery, and tbe anterior crural nerve is a little distance (a quarter to half an inch) from its outer side. The profunda, arising from the main trunk usually between one and two inches below Poupart’s ligament, follows a line almost identical with that of the femoral artery. The small sciatic (posterior cutaneous) nerve lies immediately beneath the fascia along the middle line of the back of the thigh ; and in the same line, but under cover of the hamstring muscles, is the great sciatic nerve. THE KNEE. On the inner side of the knee, the internal condyle of the femur and the corresponding tuberosity of the tibia produce a rounded surface, the most prominent point of which is formed by the tuberosity on the internal condyle. The interval between the two bones opposite the knee- joint is seldom to be seen, but is always easily felt. On the upper part of the inner condyle, the sharp adductor tubercle and the insertion of the adductor magnus tendon are also to be recognized. The external condyle, although not prominent, is subcutaneous and readily felt; itsSUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE KNEE. 693 tuberosity is comparatively little developed. The outer tuberosity of the tibia, on the other hand, forms a marked prominence at the outer and fore part of the knee, about an inch below the joint ; and behind this, at a slightly lower level, the head of the fibula is distinctly felt at the outer and back part of the limb, where it generally corresponds to a depression, when the joint is extended, between the tendon of the biceps above and the peroneus longus muscle below. Anteriorly, the patella is subcutaneous, and its lateral margins are distinctly seen. When the extensor muscles are relaxed, the patella can be easily moved from side to side ; but if these muscles are contracted, the patella is drawn up- wards and pressed firmly against the end of the femur, and the ligamen- tum patellae can then be followed down to the tubercle of the tibia : on each side of the ligament is a soft eminence produced by the infrapatellar mass of fat. When the knee is bent, the patella sinks into the hollow between the tibia and the femur, and the articular surface of the latter bone is in great part exposed ; the trochlear surface can then be distinctly traced, although covered by the tendon of the extensor muscle. There are generally two bursas, a superficial one and a deep one, over the patella, and there is frequently another over the tubercle of the tibia (p. 231). At the back of the knee is the ham, which is marked by a deep hollow when the joint is flexed, but by a slight elevation when it is extended. On each side are the tendinous hamstrings ; internally the slender semi- teudinosus and the stronger semimembranosus are to be recognized, as well as the gracilis a little farther forwards; externally is the thick tendon of the biceps leading down to the head of the fibula. Imme- diately in front of the biceps tendon, when the joint is a little bent, the upper part of the external lateral ligament is to be detected ; and be- tween this and the outer margin of the patella, the lower end of the ilio-tibial band appears as a strong cord beneath the skin, running down on the outer side of the knee to tbe prominent external tuberosity of the tibia ; while on the inner side, the sartorius tendon, with the subjacent ones of the gracilis and semitendinosus, forms a slight elevation as it curves forwards below the inner tuberosity, to be inserted close to the tubercle of the tibia. The external saphenous vein enters the lower part of the ham in the middle line of the limb, and perforates the fascia to join the popliteal vein ; but it is not usually visible on the surface. The internal saphenous vein is generally seen on the inner side of the knee, and the nerve of the same name meets it behind the internal tuberosity. The popliteal vessels enter the ham somewhat internal to the middle line above, and are then continued downwards over the centre of the back of the knee ; the vein is more superficial than the artery, but both are very deeply placed. The upper articular vessels run transversely in- wards and outwards immediately above the condyles of the femur ; and the lower articular vessels are respectively just below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and above the head of the fibula. The deep part of the anastomotic artery descends to the knee along the front of the adductor magnus tendon. The internal popliteal nerve, continuing the direction of the great sciatic, and descending in the median line, is superficial to the vessels. The external popliteal nerve is at first under cover of the fleshy belly of the biceps, and then lies on the outer side of the ham, close behind the ten-SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 694 don of that muscle ; it may be felt rolling beneath the finger as it crosses the outer side of the neck of the fibula, before entering the peroneus longus muscle. The glands in the popliteal space are not to be felt unless they are enlarged. THE LEG. Along the fore part of the leg, the anterior border of the tibia is to be followed downwards from the tubercle, constituting what is known as the shin. This border is sharp in the upper two-thirds of the leg, and de- scribes a slight curve with the concavity outwards ; in the lower third the border disappears, and the bone is concealed by the tendons of the anterior muscles. On the inner side of the shin, the broad internal surface of the tibia is subcutaneous below the sartorius, and leads down- wards to the prominent internal malleolus. At the back of the latter process a sharp edge is felt, which is formed by the inner margin of the groove for the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; the tendon itself covers the posterior surface of the malleolus. The head of the fibula is sub- cutaneous, as has been before mentioned ; the shaft is surrounded by muscles, but it can be felt through them in the lower half at least of the leg, and it will be remembered that it is placed considerably farther back in the leg than the shaft of the tibia ; near the ankle, a triangular portion of the bone comes to the surface, and is continued down to the external malleolus. Along the concavity of the anterior edge of the tibia, the prominence formed by the fleshy belly of the tibialis anticus is seen, and external to this is the much less distinct and narrower extensor longus digitorum. The tendons of the muscles appear in the lower third of the leg, and be- tween them also that of the extensor proprius hallucis ; they are brought into view most distinctly by flexing the ankle and extending the toes. From the head of the fibula downwards, the peroneus longus and brevis muscles form an elongated swelling, from which the tendons can be traced descending behind the external malleolus. Posteriorly, the elevation of the calf is formed by the gastrocnemius muscle, which terminates about the middle of the leg in the tendo Achillis ; the inner head of the gastro- cnemius is the larger, and descends lower than the outer. On each side of the gastrocnemius and tendo Achillis, a portion of the soleus comes to the surface ; and the characteristic form of the gastrocnemius, depending upon the peculiar structure of the muscle (p. 253), as well as the extent and shape of the projecting portions of the soleus, are brought into view by raising the body on the toes. The tendo Achillis gradually becomes narrower as it approaches the heel, but it widens again a little as it passes over the tuberosity of the os calcis to its insertion. Between it and the malleolus, on each side, is a well marked hollow, that on the outer side being the deeper ; in the inner of these, the tendons of the tibialis posti- cus and flexor longus digitorum, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve are superficial. Both the external and internal saphenous veins are visible beneath the skin of the leg, together with numerous tributaries and communicating branches. The internal is the larger, and, after crossing in front of the internal malleolus, runs upwards just behind the inner border of the tibia ; the external passes behind the outer malleolus and then ascends over the middle of the calf to the ham. Each vein is accompanied by the nerve of the same name.695 SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE ANKLE AND FOOT. The bifurcation of the popliteal artery takes place about two inches below the knee-joint, and on a level with the lower'part of the tubercle of the tibia. The course of the anterior tibial artery is marked on the front of the leg by a line drawn from a point midway between the head of the fibula and the prominence of the outer tuberosity of the tibia to the centre of the ankle-joint. The intermuscular space in which the artery lies is also indicated by a depression which is seen at the outer border of the tibialis anticus when the muscle is called into action. The posterior tibial artery runs in the direction of a line drawn from the centre of the ham to a spot midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the centre of the convexity of the heel; beneath this spot, the vessel divides into the internal and external plantar arteries. The posterior tibial artery is covered by the gastrocnemius and solcus for about two thirds of its length, but in the lower third it is superficial and may be felt pulsating in the interval between the teudo Achillis and the tibia. About three inches below the knee, it gives off the large peroneal branch, which follows the direction of the fibula, and terminates behind the external malleolus. THE ANKLE AND FOOT. Of the two malleoli, the internal is usually the more prominent, but the external descends lower and also projects farther back, having its point, as a rule, about three-quarters of an inch nearer to the heel than that of the internal malleolus. On the dorsum of the foot, the tarsal bones are not usually to be distinguished individually, but the head of the astragalus not unfrequently forms a considerable projection when the ankle-joint is extended. Along the inner side of the foot, the tuberosity of the os calcis is first felt, and then, about an inch below the internal malleolus, the sustentaculum tali of the same bone ; in front of the latter, and about an inch and a half from the malleolus, the tubercle of the navicular bone is prominent, and to it the tendon of the tibialis posticus may be followed from the back of the internal malleolus ; the finger next passes over the internal cuneiform bone, and recognizes the base of the first metatarsal bone as a slightly prominent ridge ; from this, the shaft of the bone may be traced forwards beneath the skin to its expanded head, below which the sesamoid bones may be felt on the plantar aspect of the metatarso-phalangeai articulation. On the outer side of the foot, nearly the whole of the external surface of the os calcis is subcutaneous, and the peroneal spine of the bone may often be felt a little below and in front of the external malleolus. The anterior extremity of the os calcis may be distinguished when the foot is inverted, forming a marked prominence above the level of the cuboid bone, and in front of this, distant about two and a half inches from the external malleolus, the projecting tuberosity at the base of the fifth metatarsal bone is easily felt. Over the front of the ankle, the tendons of the anterior muscles of the leg are bound down by the anterior annular ligament; they can he readily distinguished when the joint is flexed, spreading over the dorsum of the foot, and disposed in the following order :—the most internal and the largest is the tibialis anticus; next comes the extensor proprius hallucis, and then the extensor longus digitorum, dividing into its four slips for the smaller toes ; lastly, proceeding from the outer side of the long extensor to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone is the peroneus tertins; the last-named is, however, not unfrequently wanting. The anterior tibial vessels and nerve are placed, opposite the ankle-joint.SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE LOWER LIMB. 696 between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum. Beneath the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum, on the dorsum of the foot, is placed the extensor brevis digitorum, the fleshy belly of which produces a distinct swelling over the tarsal region. The fleshy mass on the inner margin of the foot is formed by the abductor and flexor brevis hallucis muscles ; and that on the outer border by the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti. In the sole, the thickness of the integument, and the manner in which the parts are bound together by the strong plantar fascia, render it impossible to distinguish the individual muscles. On the back of the foot, the arch or plexus of veins shows plainly through the skin, and its extremities may be followed into the internal and external saphenous veins respectively. The dorsal artery of the foot extends from the centre of the ankle- joint to the back of the first intermetatarsal space, and it may be felt pulsating midway between the tendons of the extensor proprius hallucis and extensor longus digitorum. Just before its ending, it is crossed by the innermost slip of the extensor brevis digitorum. The external plantar artery runs from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial (p. (595) obliquely across the sole to within an inch of the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone, aud then is directed more transversely inwards to the back of the first interosseous space, where it meets the termination of the dorsal artery. The internal plantar artery is much smaller than the external; its position may be indicated by a line drawn from the place of bifurcation of the posterior tibial to the under part of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation of the great toe. The metatarso-phalangeal articulations are situated about an inch behind the web of the toes. ANATOMY OF THE GROIN: HERNIA. Abdominal hernias are chiefly of three kinds, 'inguinal, femoral, and ■umbilical. The last-named, however, which occurs at the umbilicus, need not^be more than mentioned in an anatomical work, inasmuch as it presents relations by no means intricate. An inguinal hernia, following the course of the spermatic cord from the cavity of the abdomen, and a femoral hernia, coming through the crural canal at the inner side of the femoral vessels, have important anatomical relations which must be studied with the greatest attention. INGUINAL HERNIA. The inguinal canal, through which the spermatic cord passes from the cavity of the abdomen to the testis, and through which an inguinal hernia also passes, begins at the internal abdominal ring, and ends at the external one. It is oblique in its direction, being nearly parallel with and immediately above the inner half of Poupart’s ligament; and it measures about an inch and a half in length. The external ring is immediately above and external to the pubic spine ; the internal is midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. In front the canal is hounded by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in its whole length, and at the outer end by the fleshy part of the internal oblique also; behind it, is the fascia transversalis, together with, towards697 ANATOMY OF THE GEOIN : HERNIA. the inner end, the conjoined tendon of the two deeper abdominal Fig. 371.—The aponeurosis of the EXTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE AND THE FASCIA LATA. (It. Quain.) i 1, internal pillar of the superficial ring; 2, external pillar of the same (Poupart’s ligament); 3, inter- columnar fibres of the aponeurosis ; 4, pubic part of the fascia lata ; 5, spermatic cord; 6, long saphenous vein ; 7, iliac part of the fascia lata. muscles. Above, the canal is limited by the arched lower borders of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, while below, it is bounded by the broad surface of Poupart’s ligament, which separates it from the sheath of the large blood-vessels descending to the thigh, and from the femoral canal at the inner side of those vessels. The deep epigastric artery is close to the inner b Fig. 371. r of the internal ring, and the ex- Fig. 372.—Deeper dis- Fig. 372. SECTION OF THE ABDO- MINAL WALL IN THE groin. (E. Quain.) ± The aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle having been divided and turned down, the internal oblique is brought into view with the spermatic cord escaping beneath its lower edge: 1, aponeuro- sis of the external oblique : 1', lower part of the same turned down ; 2, internal oblique muscle ; 3, sper- matic cord ; 4, saphenous vein. ternal iliac artery is below it. The spermatic cord, which occupies the inguinal canal, is composed of the arte- ries, veins, lympha- tics, nerves, and ex- cretory duct of the testis (vas deferens), together with a quantity of loose areolar tissue mixed up with those parts.698 ANATOMY OF THE GROIN. The coverings given from the constituent parts of the abdominal wall to the spermatic cord, besides the integuments, are, from the external ring, a prolongation of the intercolumnar or spermatic fascia ; the cremasteric muscle and fascia from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, and a thin, funnel-shaped prolongation of the transver- salis fascia from the edge of the inner ring (infundibuliform fascia). Beneath the last, the areolar tissue uniting together the constituents of the cord is continuous with the subperitoneal areolar layer. Varieties of inguinal hernia.—Two principal forms of inguinal hernia are described, which are distinguished according to the part of the Fig. 373.—The inguinal canal and femoral sheath fully exposed. (R. Quain.) § The lower part of the external oblique has been removed (with the exception of Poupart’s ligament), a portion of the internal oblique raised, and the transversalis muscle and fascia brought into view. The femoral artery and vein are seen to a small extent, the fascia lata having been turned aside and the sheath of blood-vessels laid open. 1, external oblique muscle; 2, internal oblique ; 2', part of same turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle ; upon the last-named muscle is seen a branch of the circumflex iliac artery, with its companion veins ; 4, transversalis fascia ; 5, spermatic cord covered by the in- fundibuliform fascia ; 6, upper angle of the iliac part of the fascia lata ; 7, femoral sheath; 8, femoral artery ; 9, femoral vein ; 10, saphenous vein ; 11, a vein joining it. canal which they first enter, as well as by the position which they bear with respect to the epigastric artery. Thus, when the hernia takes the course of the inguinal canal from its commencement, it is named oblique, because of the direction of the canal, or external, from the position which its neck bears with respect to the epigastric artery. On the other hand, when the protruded part, without following the length of the canal, passes at once through its posterior wall at a point opposite the699 INGUINAL HEKNIA. external abdominal ring, tlie hernia is named, from its course, direct, or from its relation to the epigastric artery, internal. Oblique inguinal hernia.—In the common form of this hernia the protruded viscus carries before it a covering of peritoneum (the sac of the hernia), derived from the outer fossa of that serous membrane (p. 701) ; and, in passing along the inguinal canal to the scrotum, it is successively invested by the coverings given to the spermatic cord from the abdominal parietes. The hernia and its sac lie directly in front of the vessels of the spermatic cord, and do not extend below the testis, even when the tumour is of large size. When the hernia does not extend beyond the inguinal canal, it is distinguished by the name bubonocele: and when it reaches the scrotum, it is commonly named from that circumstance scrotal hernia. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia, in which the peculi- arity depends on the condition of the process of peritoneum that accompanies the testis when this organ descends from the abdomen. In ordinary circum- stances the part of the peritoneum connected immediately with the testis becomes separated after birth from the general cavity of that serous membrane by the obliteration of the intervening canal; and the .hernial protrusion occurring after such obliteration has been completed, carries with it a distinct serous investment—the sac. But if this process of obliteration should not take place, and if a hernia should be formed, the protruded part is then received into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, which serves in the place of its sac. In this case the hernia is named congenital (hernia tunic* vaginalis,—Cooper). It is thus designated, because the condition necessary for its formation only exists Fig. 374.—Diagram of a part of the A Fig. 374. B PERITONEUM AND THE TUNICA VAGINA- LIS testis (after a sketch by Charles Bell). In a, the serous investment of the testis is seen to be continuous with the peritoneum ; in b, the two membranes are shown distinct from each other. 1, the peritoneal cavity ; 2, the testis. normally about the time of birth; but the same kind of hernia is occa- sionally found to be first formed in the adult, obviously in consequence of the tunica vaginalis remaining unclosed, and still continuous with the peri- toneum. The congitenal hernia, should it reach the scrotum, passes below the testis ; and, this organ being embedded in the protruded viscus, a careful exami- nation is necessary in order to detect its position. This peculiarity serves to distinguish the congenital from the ordinary form of the disease. To the second variety of inguinal hernia, in which the distinguishing character depends on the state of the tunica vaginalis testis, the name infantile has been applied (Hey). The hernia in this case is covered with a distinct sac, which is again invested by the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. The relative position of the two serous membranes (the hernial sac and the tunica vaginalis) may be accounted for by supposing the hernia to descend when the process of the perito- neum, which accompanies the testis from the abdomen, has been merely closed at the upper end, but not obliterated for any length. Hence during an opera- tion in such a case, the hernial sac is met with only after another serous bag (the tunica vaginalis testis) has been divided. The peculiarity here described has been repeatedly found present in the recently formed hernias of grown persons. The term infantile, therefore, like congenital, has reference to the condition of certain parts, rather than to the period of life at which the disease is first formed.700 ANATOMY OF THE GEOIN. In the female, oblique inguinal hernia follows the course of the round ligament of the uterus along the inguinal canal, in the same manner as in the male it follows the spermatic cord. After escaping from the external abdominal ring, the hernia lodges in the labium pudendi. The coverings are the same as those in the male body, with the exception of the cremaster, which does not exist in the female : but it occasionally happens that some fibres of the internal oblique muscle are drawn down over this hernia in loops, so as to have the appearance of a cremaster (Cloquet). A strictly congenital inguinal hernia may occur in the female, the protruded parts being received into the little diverticulum of the peritoneum (canal of Nuck), which sometimes extends into the inguinal canal with the round ligament. But as this process of the peritoneum, in such circumstances, would probably not differ in any respect from the ordinary sac. there are no means of distinguishing a congenital hernia in the female body. Direct inguinal hernia (internal: ventro-inguinal). — Instead of following the whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the viscus in this case is protruded from the abdomen to the groin directly through the lower end of the canal, at the external abdominal ring. At the part of the abdominal wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds its way, there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular interval, the sides of which are formed by the epigastric artery, and the margin of the rectus muscle, and the base by Poupart’s ligament. It is commonly named the triangle of Hessel- hach. Through this space the hernia is protruded, carrying before it a sac from the fossa of the peritoneum internal to the obliterated hypo- gastric artery ; and it is in general forced onwards directly into the external abdominal ring. Fig. 375.—Internal view of tile VESSELS IN THE NEIGH HOl'RHOOlt of the groin (R. Quain). A portion of the wall of the abdo- men and pelvis of the left side, seen from behind. 1, symphysis pubis; 2, irregular surface of the hip-bone separated from the sacrum ; 3, ischial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity; 5, obturator internus ; 8, rectus, covered with a prolongation from 7, transver- salis fascia ; 8, iliac fascia covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut; 10, external iliac artery; 11, its vein; 12, epigastric vessels; 13, spermatic vessels entering the abdo- minal wall at the internal ring, the vas deferens joiningthem from below; 14, two pubic veins; 15, obliterated hypogastric artery.701 INGUINAL HERNIA. The coverings of a direct hernia, taking them in the order in which they are successively applied to the protruded viscus, are the following :— Fig. 376.—A DIRECT INGUINAL HER- NIA ON THE LEFT SIDE, COVERED BY THE CONJOINED TENDON OP THE INTERNAL OBLIQUE AND TRANSVER- salis muscles (R. Quain). 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis muscle; 4, trans- versalis fascia ; 5, spermatic cord ; 6, the hernia. A small part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an opening made in the transversalis fascia. The peritoneal sac and the subperitoneal tissue which adheres to it, the transversalis fascia, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, and the spermatic fascia derived from the margin of the external abdominal ring, together with the super- ficial fascia and skin. With regard to the conjoined tendon this hernia may be covered by it, or may pass through an opening in its fibres. The spermatic cord is commonly placed behind the outer part of the Fig. 377. Fig. 377.—A SMALL OBLIQUE AND A DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA, ON THE RIGHT SIDE (R. Quain). 1, tendon of the external oblique turned down ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversalis ; 4, on its tendon above a part of the epigastric artery, which has been ex- posed by dividing the transversalis fascia ; 5, the spermatic eord (its vessels separated) ; 6, a bubonocele ; 7, direct hernia, protruded at the conjoined tendon of the two deeper muscles, and covered by a prolongation of the transversalis fascia. hernia. The hernial sac is not, how- ever, in contact with the vessels of the cord, the investments given from the transversalis fascia to those vessels and to the hernia respectively being interposed. But the spot at which an internal inguinal hernia passes through the triangle of Hesselbach is subject to some variation, and there is a second form of internal hernia which differs somewhat in its course and connec- tions from the foregoing. When the anterior abdominal wall is viewed from within (fig. 375), the obliterated hypogastric artery is seen running upwards to the umbilicus, and raising the peritoneum in a well-marked fold which separates two hollows known as the external and internal702 ANATOMY OF THE GROIN. inguinal fossa;. A little external to the obliterated hypogastric artery, the epigastric artery gives rise to another less prominent elevation of the peritoneum, and an external hernia descends, as already explained, on the outer side of this artery, and therefore at the outer part of the external fossa. The more usual form of internal hernia, that which has been described above, descends in the internal fossa, between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the rectus muscle ; while the less frequent form stretches the peritoneum of the inner part of the external fossa (some- times described separately as the middle inguinal fossa) and emerges between the hypogastric and epigastric arteries. Such a protrusion passes through a considerable portion of the inguinal canal to reach the external ring, and has therefore a certain degree of obliquity, whence this variety is frequently termed internal oblique inguinal hernia. It is also known as superior internal hernia, the direct form being called in- ferior internal. An internal oblique hernia passes outside the conjoined tendon, and so has no covering derived from that structure, but it receives one from the cremaster in the same way as an external hernia. Direct inguinal hernia is very rarely met with in the female. In the single case observed by Richard Quain as well as in the few cases found recorded in books, the hernia though not inconsiderable in size was still covered by the tendon of the external oblique muscle. FEMORAL HERNIA. A femoral hernia leaves the abdomen at the groin, passing beneath Poupart’s ligament, and over the anterior border of the hip-bone imme- diately at the inner side of the femoral vessels. It takes a downward course through the innermost compartment of the femoral sheath till it Fig. 378.—The groin of the right SIDE DISSECTED SO AS TO DISPLAY THE DEEP FEMORAL ARCH (R. Quain). I 1, outer part of tlie femoral arch; 1', part of the tendon of the external oblique muscle, with external inguinal ring, projecting through which is seen a portion of the spermatic cord, cut; 2, femoral arch at its insertion into the spine of the pubis, and to the outer side the fibres of Gimbernat’s ligament; 3, outer part of the femoral sheath ; 4, spermatic cord; 5, deep femoral arch—its inner end, where it is fixed to the pubis; 6, internal oblique muscle; 7, transversalis; below this the transversalis fascia continued into the femoral sheath under the deep femoral arch ; 8, con- joined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; 9, tri- angular fascia. reaches the saphenous opening, when it turns forwards through the opening towards the front of the thigh, and is then bent upwards in the groin. The femoral or crural sheath is a somewhat funnel-shaped structure surrounding the upper parts of the femoral artery and vein. It is wide Fig. 378.i OD FEMORAL HERNIA. superiorly, but embraces the vessels closely below. It is continuous above with the lining fasciae of the abdomen, namely, with the transversalis fascia in front, and the iliac fascia behind. On removing its anterior wall, the sheath is found to be divided into three compartments, by fibrous septa ; the outer compartment containing the femoral artery, the middle, the femoral vein, and the inner being occupied merely by lymphatic vessels, a gland, and some fat. This inner compartment is about half an inch long, and from its being the passage through which the hernia descends, has been called the femoral or crural canal. The upper extremity of the canal presents a rounded aperture towards the cavity of the abdomen, usually of sufficient size to admit the point of the forefinger ; its size, however, varies in different persons, and it is larger in the female than in the male. This aperture is called the crural or femoral ring, and is covered when viewed from the inside by peritoneum, and beneath that by the subperitoneal connective tissue, which here forms the crural septum (Cloquet). On the outer side lies the external iliac vein covered by its sheath, but on the other three sides the ring is bounded by very unyielding structures. In front are the femoral or crural arches, the superficial being formed by Poupart’s ligament, and the deep by a strong bundle of fibres, which, springing from the under surface of Poupart’s ligament outside the femoral vessels, extends across the fore part of the femoral sheath and, widening at its inner end, is fixed to the ilio-pectineal line behind Gimbemat’s ligament. Behind the ring is the hip-bone covered by the pectineus muscle and the pubic layer of the fascia lata; and on the inner side are several layers of fibrous struc- ture connected with the ilio-pectineal line—namely, Gimbernat’s ligament, the conjoined tendon of the two deeper abdominal muscles, and the trans- versalis fascia, with the deep femoral arch. The last-mentioned structures —those bounding the ring at the inner side—present more or less sharp margins towards the opening. Relations to blood-vessels.—Besides the femoral vein, the posi- tion of which has been already stated, the epigastric artery is closely connected with the ring, lying above its outer side. It not unfrequently happens that an aberrant obturator artery descends into the pelvis at the outer side of the ring, or immediately behind it; and in rarer cases this vessel passes over the ring to its inner side (p. 455). A pubic vein, also, has occasionally the same course ; and the small pubic branch of the epigastric artery will be generally found ramifying on the superior aspect of Gimbemat’s ligament. In the male, the spermatic vessels are separated from the canal only by the femoral arches. Descent of the hernia.—When a femoral hernia is being formed, the protruded part is at first vertical in its course ; but at the lower end of the canal it bends forwards through the saphenous opening, and, as it increases in size, ascends over the iliac part of the fascia lata and the femoral arch. Within the canal the hernia is very small, being con- stricted by the unyielding structures which form that passage ; but when it has passed beyond the saphenous opening, it enlarges in the loose fatty layers of the groin ; and, as the tumour increases, it extends outwards in the groin towards the anterior superior iliac spine. Coverings of the hernia.—The coverings of a femoral hernia in order from within outwards are, the peritoneum (which forms the sac) ; the septum crurale and the sheath of the femoral vessels. These two structures combined constitute a single very thin covering, known as704 THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. the fascia propria of the hernia (Cooper), ft sometimes happens that the hernia is protruded through an openiug in the sheath, which there- fore in that event does not contribute to form the fascia propria. Lastly, the hernia is covered by the cribriform fascia stretching across the saphenous opening, the superficial fascia and the skin. Fig. 379. r Fig. 379.—View op tiie relations op THE VESSELS OP THE GROIN TO A FEMORAL HERNIA (R. Qliain). \ In the upper part of the figure a portion of the flat muscles of the abdo- men has been removed, displaying in part the transversalis fascia and perito- neal lining of the abdomen; in the lower, the fascia lata of the thigh is in part removed and the sheath of the femoral vessels opened : the sac of the hernial tumour has also been opened. a, anterior superior spinous process of the ilium ; b, aponeurosis of the ex- ternal oblique muscle above the exter- nal inguinal aperture ; c, the abdomi- nal peritoneum and fascia transver- salis ; </, iliac portion of the fascia lata, near the saphenous opening; e, sac of the femoral hernia ; 1, femoral artery ; 2, femoral vein at the place where it is joined by the saphenous vein ; 3, epigas- i trie artery and vein ; x , placed upon the upper part of the femoral vein, close below the common trunk of the epigastric and an aberrant obturator artery ; the latter artery is seen in I this case to pass close to the vein and between it and the neck of the hernial tumour. THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. The perineum is the region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and which is traversed by the lower end of the rectum and by the urethra. It extends, therefore, from the apex of the subpubic arch in front to the tip of the coccyx behind, and from the ischial tuberosity of one side to that of the other. It is bounded on each side, at the fore part, by the conjoined rami of the pubis and ischium, and at the back part, by the great sacro-sciatic ligament together with a portion of the lower border of the gluteus maximus muscle. Its form is rather heart- shaped in consequence of the projection of the coccyx posteriorly ; it measures about three and a half inches from side to side, and about four inches over the curved surface (three and a quarter inches in a straight line) from before back in the middle line. The perineal space is sepa- rated from the pelvic cavity above by the recto-vesical fascia and the levatores ani muscles; its depth is considerable (from two to three inches) at the posterior and outer part, much less (not exceeding an inch) at the fore part. The perineal space is conveniently divided into two parts by a line drawn across from one ischial tuberosity to the other, and passing imme- diately in front of the anus. The anterior division is termed theTHE PERINEUM OF TIIE MALE. 705 urethral part, and is often referred to as the true perineum ; the posterior division is called the anal part or the false perineum. The several muscles and fascite, vessels and nerves, which enter into the formation of the perineum have been fully described in the earlier chapters of this volume, and it now only remains to give a short sketch of its superficial and topographical anatomy, with which may he in- cluded also the relations of the adjoining parts of the pelvic viscera. Superficial anatomy.—The osseous portions of the boundaries of the perineum can be felt more or less distinctly through the skin, but the anterior portion of the subpubic- arch is obscured by the presence of the penis, and the ischial tuberosities are at some distance from the sur- face, being covered by a thick layer of fat and, in the erect position, also- by the great gluteal muscles. The saero-sciatic ligament is scarcely to be distinguished beneath the gluteus maximus, except in very thin subjects. The lower part of the coccyx is very plainly felt. The anus is placed directly between the ischial tuberosities, its centre being about one inch and a half from the extremity of the coccyx. The skin of the perineum is thin and provided with more or less abun- dant hairs ; it is gathered into puckered folds round the anus, to which a farther irregularity is often given by swollen haemorrhoidal veins. In front of the anus is a median ridge, the raphe, which runs forwards and is continued on to the scrotum and penis. Beneath this, the bulb of the urethra forms a slight median elevation, more perceptible in emaciated subjects. In such subjects again, the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa does- not reach the level of the ischial tuberosities so as to form a rounded surface sinking in towards the anus, as is the case in those who are well nourished. A line white line round the anus indicates the point of junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and corresponds precisely to the division between the external and internal sphincters (Hilton). One inch in front of the anus is situated the central point of the perineum, which corresponds to the centre of the free border of the triangular ligament. Immediately in front of this, the bulb of the urethra commences, but the membranous part perforates the triangular ligament about half an inch farther forwards, and therefore one inch and a half in front of the anus. Topographical anatomy.—The superficial fascia of the perineum consists of two layers, the more superficial of which is the ordinary subcutaneous fascia and contains fat, especially in the posterior portion of the space, where it is very abundant and fills the ischio-rectal fossa. The deeper layer or fascia of Colies, is membranous, and is confined to the anterior part of the space ; it is attached on each side to the rami of the ischium and pubis, and posteriorly to the base of the triangular liga- ment ; it thus forms a somewhat triangular pouch in the fore part of the perineum, which may modify the course of an extravasation of urine or a collection of pus in this situation. The pouch is, moi’eover, subdivided posteriorly by a median septum which extends from the back of the perineum to the scrotum. The hinder part of the perineum is occupied in the centre by the lower end of the rectum, and between this and the ischial tuberosity on each side is a considerable hollow known as the ischio-rectal fossa. The ischio-rectal fossa is a hollow of an irregularly pyramidal shape. Its base is turned downwards, and measures about two inches from before back, and one inch from side to side. Its outer wall is perpendicular,. VOL. I. Z ZTHE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. 706 find is formed by the obturator interims muscle covered by its fascia below the level at which the recto-vesical fascia is attached to it. The inner wall is oblique in direction and convex towards the fossa; it is formed by the levator ani muscle, covered by the thin anal fascia, and at the lower part by the external sphincter. Anteriorly, the fossa is limited by the base of the triangular ligament, and posteriorly, by the gluteus maximus muscle and the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Its depth is about two inches (above the margin of the tuberosity) at the hinder part, where it extends upwards to the ischial spine, the small sacro-sciatic ligament and the coccygeus muscle. The pudic vessels and the dorsal and perineal divisions of the pndic nerve run forwards along the outer wall of the fossa, being embedded in the obturator fascia about an inch and a half above the lower margin of the ischial tuberosity ; the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of these trunks run obliquely inwards and forwards from the hinder part of the fossa towards the anus ; and anteriorly, the superficial perineal vessels and the perineal nerve leave the shelter of the hip-bone and also enter the fat of the fossa. The ischio-rectal fossa is often the seat of abscesses which burrow freely in the loose fat of the part, and frequently result in the formation of a fistula in ano, involving a communication with the bowel, some- times above, but more frequently below, the external sphincter. The lower dilated part of the rectum, which occupies the space between the two ischio-rectal fossae, is supported by the levatores ani and the external sphincter muscles, as well as by the recto-vesical fascia. Its lateral wall is exposed for a distance of about three inches, its posterior wall for little more than an inch. On removing the fasciae of the fore part of the perineum the bulbo- cavernosus muscle is exposed covering the corpus spongiosum, the ischio-cavernosus covering the crus penis, and the transversus perinei directed inwards over the base of the triangular ligament to meet the first-named muscle, as well as the external sphincter and its fellow of the opposite side, in the central point of the perineum. Between the bulbo- eavernosus, ischio-cavernosus, and transversus muscles is a small tri- angular space, in which a portion of the triangular ligament is exposed, and over the surface of the muscles (sometimes in part beneath or through the transversus) the superficial perineal vessels and nerves run forwards to the scrotum, while the small transverse perineal artery is directed inwards close to the transverse muscle towards the central point of the perineum. The triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia, which occupies the subpubic arch, has a depth of an inch and a half in the middle line, but extends somewhat farther backwards on each side, at its attachment to the ischial ramus. It consists of two layers, the upper of which is con- tinuous with the recto-vesical fascia. The membranous part of the urethra descends, first through the superior, and then through the inferior layer, about an inch from the symphysis pubis, and it is sur- rounded by the fibres of the constrictor urethrae muscle, which occupies the greater part of the space between the two layers. Near the urethra, also embedded in the muscular fibres, is Cowper’s gland. The pudic vessels and the dorsal nerve of the penis enter the base of the triangular ligament and run forwards close to the bone, in small canals formed in the origin of the constrictor muscle, and the artery gives off here its con-707 THE PERINEUM OF THE MALE. siderable branch to the bulb, which is directed inwards about half an inch from the base of the triangular ligament, and an inch and a half in front of the anus. Resting on the upper surface of the triangular ligament is the apex of the prostate, and this body is surrounded by its sheath, which is con- tinuous on each side with the upper layer of the ligament; beneath the sheath is the large prostatic plexus of veins, derived mainly from the breaking up of the dorsal vein of the penis which passes into the pelvis between the symphysis pubis and the triangular ligament. In the recess between the lateral part of the upper surface of the triangular ligament and the sheath of the prostate, the anterior part of the levator ani muscle is lodged. Above the prostate, and at a depth generally of from two and a half to three inches from the surface, is the bladder, the base of which projects backwards into the concavity formed by the rectum and overlaps the second part of the bowel to a variable extent according to the degree of distension of the bladder. Between the bladder and rectum are tbe vesiculm seminales and the terminal portions of the vasa deferentia. When the bladder is full, the recto-vesical pouch of the peritoneum does not usually reach below a line an inch and a half from the base of the prostate. In contact with the upper surface of the levator ani is the recto-vesical fascia, forming the deep boundary of the perineal space. It extends from the side wall of the pelvis downwards and inwards to the side of the rectum, to the bladder and prostate. Its line of attachment to the bladder on each side runs upwards and backwards immediately above the prostate, and external to the position of the vesicuke seminales ; and it is essential, in the operation of lithotomy, that the bladder be opened -entirely below this level. If the incision be carried through the fascia beyond this line, then the pelvic cavity will be opened, and extravasation of urine into the loose areolar tissue will probably follow. z v. 2INDEX TO VOLUME I. Abdomen (abdo, I hide), fascia of, lining, 333 superficial, 322 lymphatics of, 531 muscles of, 323 nerves of, 648 superficial anatomy of, 677 Abdominal aorta, 433 artery (internal mammary), 400 (lumbar), 445 furrow, 679 nerve (hypogastric), 623 ring, external or superficial, 325, 679, 696 internal or deep, 333, 679, 696 Abducent (ab, from; duco, 1 lead), nerve, 570 Abduction, 139 Abductor. Sec Muscles. Aberrant arteries, 414, 427 Absorbent vessels, 527 Accessorius ad ilio-costalem, 309 Accessory artery, pudic, 459 nerve, obturator, 626 spinal, 586 process of lumbar vertebrae, 15, 24 Acetabulum (a vessel for holding vine- gar), 104, 107 Aeromio-clavicular articulation, 152 Acromion (bupov, a summit ; uyos, top of the shoulder), 87, 100, 681, 684 Acromio-thoracic artery, 406 vein, 512 Adduction (ad, to ; duco, I lead), 139 Adductor. Sec Muscles. Adductor tubercle, 114 Air-sinuses in bones of head, 67 Ahe of sacrum, 17 of vomer, 52 Alar ligaments of knee, 175 odontoid. 144 thoracic artery, 406 vein, 512 Alisphenoid, 71, 75 Alveolar arteiy, 380 index, 83 nerves, 560 point, 80 vein, 497 Alveoli (alveolus, a small hollow vessel), of lower jaw, 56 upper jaw, 49 Amphiarthrosis (dn<pl, on both sides, intermediate ; itpdpov, a joint), 138 Amygdalo-glossus (amygdala, tonsil) muscle, 300 Anal fascia, 336 muscles, 339, 343 Analogy of organs, 5 Auapophysis (avd, upon ; apophysis), 15, 24 Anastomotic arteries. See Artery. vein of Trolard, 501 Anatomy (avd, apart; rdpua, I cut), 1 embryological, 2 general and descriptive, 1 morphological and physiological, 2 object of, 1 systematic and topographical, 2 superficial and topographical, 667 Anconeus (dyudv, the elbow), 211, 687 Angeiology (0776101', a vessel; Xoyos, dis- course), 347 Angle, facial, 83 of lower jaw, 56 of pubis, 106 subcostal, 30, 674 Angular artery, 372 movement, 139 processes of frontal bone, 36, 667 vein, 494 Ankle-joint, ligaments of, 177 movements of, 178 nerves of, 640, 644 Annular (annulus, a ring) ligaments. See Ligament. Ansa (a loop) hypoglossi, 589 Ansce Yheussenii, 657 Antibrachium (atm, opposite ; brachium), 84 Antrum (a cavern), 8 of Highmore, 47, 50, 68, 73 Aorta (perhaps from aei'pco, I take up or carry), 351 abdominal, 433, 68r, 682 branches of, parietal, 445 visceral, 435710 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Aorta—continued. abdominal, anastomoses of visceral and parietal branches of, 447 varieties of, 435 arch of, 352, 677, 682 branches of, 355, 358 varieties of, 355 foramen in diaphragm for, 319 thoracic, descending, 430 Aortic cartilage, 677 plexus, 664 Aperture, anterior nasal, 59, 668 Aponeurosis {curd, from ; vtvpov, a string, a tendon), 189. See also Fascia. of diaphragm, 319 epicranial, 270 of external oblique muscle, 323 internal oblique muscle, 327 lumbar, 190, 307, 330, 334 occipito-frontal, 270 of transversalis muscle, 329 vertebral, 306 Apophysis (airi, from ; <pvw, I grow), 8 Appendicular portions of body, 3, 128 Aqueduct of cochlea, 41 of Fallopius, 41 of vestibule, 41 Arch, alveolar, 62 of aorta, 352. See Aorta. carpal, anterior, 424 posterior, 419 crural or femoral, deep, 333, 703 superficial, 703 orbital, 36 palmar, superficial, 421, 689 deep, 427, 689 plantar, 481 subpubic, 10S of a vertebra, 9 zygomatic, 61 Arches, axillary, 193 inferior, of skull, 77 superior, of skull, 77 of vertebra;, 9, 23 Arm, aponeurosis of, 207 arteries of, 404 bones of, 84 fasciie of, 207 lymphatics of, 537 muscle of, 207 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 685 veins of, 510, 511 Arnold, ganglion of, 568 nerve of, 582 Auteui A comes nervi ischiadici, 460 comes nervi phrenici, 400 pancreatica magna, 439 princeps pollicis, 426 profunda femoris, 470 profunda penis, 458 radialis indicis, 426 tliyroidea ima, 360 ARTERIES (aprripla, from aprqp, that by which anything is suspended ; ori- ginally applied to the windpipe, by which the lungs might be said to be suspended, TpaxUci apr-ripia, artcria aspera, afterwards to the arteries, at one time supposed, like the windpipe, to contain air. Another less probable derivation is from a-fip, air ; Trjpe'w, 1 keep). Descriptive Anatomy of, 347 size and classification of, 349 Arteries, or Artery, abdominal, of in- ternal mammary, 400 of lumbar arteries, 445 aberrant, in arm, 408, 414, 427 accessory pudic, 459 acromial, 406 acromio-thoracic, 406 alar-thoracic, 406 alveolar, 380 anastomotic, of arm, 412, 415 of sciatic, 460 of thigh, 472, 693 angular, of face, 372 articular, of knee, 475, 693 auditory, 395 auricular, anterior, 377 deep, 378 posterior, 373 axillary, 404, 685 surgical anatomy of, 40S varieties of, 408 azygos articular, 476 basilar, 394 brachial, 409, 685 surgical anatomy of, 415 varieties of, 412 brachio-ceplialic, 360 varieties of, 358, 360 bronchial, 431 buccal, 380 of bulb, 457 calcaneal, external, 480 internal, 4S0, 482 capsular, 443, 445 carotid, common, 360, 672 surgical anatomy of, 365 varieties of, 364 external, 366, 672 varieties of, 366 internal, 381, 672 carpal, anterior, radial, 424 ulnar, 419 posterior, radial, 425 ulnar, 419 central, of retina, 383 cerebellar, anterior, 395 inferior, 394 superior, 395 cerebral, anterior, 385, 387 middle, 386, 387 posterior, 387, 395 cervical, ascending, 396 deep, 401IXDEX TO Artery—coal in lied. cervical, of occipital, 373 superficial, 398 transverse, 39S choroid, anterior, 386 posterior, 38 7, 395 ciliary, 383 circumflex, of arm, anterior, 407 posterior, 407, 685 iliac, deep, 464 superficial, 469 of thigh, external, 470, 473 internal, 470, 473 clavicular, 406 coccygeal, 460 cadiac, 435, 681, 6S2 colic, left, 441 middle, 441 right, 441 communicating, of brain, anterior, 386 posterior, 3S2, 395 coronary of heart, 358 of lips, 372, 669 of stomach, 435 of corpus cavernosum, 45S cremasteric, 464 crico-thvroid, 368, 672 cystic, 436 dental, anterior, 3S0 inferior, 379 posterior, 380 digital, of foot, 482, 486 of hand, 421, 426, 427, 689, 690 dorsal, of clitoris, 459 of foot, 485, 696 surgical anatomy of, 4S7 of fore linger, 426 of intercostal, 432 of lumbar, 447 of penis, 458 scapular, 406 of thumb, 426 of tongue, 36S emulgent, 443 epigastric, deep or inferior, 464, 679 relation to femoral hernia, 703 to inguinal hernia, 698 superficial, 469 superior, 400 ethmoidal, 383 facial, 369, 669, 672 femoral, 465, 692 common, 467, 473 deep, 470, 473 superficial, 467, 474 surgical anatomy of, 473 varieties of, 473 fibular, superior, 485 frontal, 385, 668 gastric, short, 439 gastro-duodenal, 436 gastro-epiploic, left, 439 right, 436 gluteal, 461, 691 VOLUME I. 7Id Artery—continued. luemorrhoidal. inferior or external, 457, 706 middle, 453 superior, 441 of hand, varieties of, 429 hepatic., 436 humeral, 409 of acromio-thoraeic, 406' transverse, 396 hyoid (lingual), 368 (thyroid), 367 hypogastric, 451, 701 ileo-colic, 439 iliac, common, 448, 681 surgical anatomy of,. 450 varieties of, 450 external, 462, 681 surgical anatomy of, 465, varieties of, 465 of ilio-lumbar, 461 internal, 450 in feetus, 451 of obturator, 454 ilio-lumbar, 461 of index finger, dorsal, 426, 427 radial, 426 infraorbital, 380 innominate, 360, 672, 677 varieties of, 358, 360 intercostal, aortic, 431, 677 anterior of internal mammary, 400 superior, 401 interosseous, of forearm, 408, 413,. 418, 421 anterior, 418 posterior, 419 of foot, 4S6 of hand, dorsal, 419, 425,. 42.7 palmar, 428 intestinal, 439 labial, inferior, 371 lachrymal, 383 laryngeal, of inferior thyroid, 396* of superior thyroid, 36S lingual, 368, 672 lumbar, 445 lowest lumbar, 448 of ilio-lumbar, 461 malar, 383 malleolar, of anterior tibial, 485' of posterior tibial, 479 mammary, external, 406, 408- internal, 399, 677 masseteric, 380 mastoid, of occipital, 373 maxillary, external, 369 internal, 378 median, 419 varieties of, 414, 421 mediastinal, 400 posterior, 431 medullary, of femur, 472 fibula, 480INDEX TO VOLUME I. 712 Artery—continued. medullary, of humerus, 412 radius, 419 tibia, 478 ulna, 419 meningeal, anterior, 383 of ascending pharyngeal, 377 middle or great, 378, 668 of occipital, 373 posterior, 394 small, 379 mesenteric, inferior, 441, 681 middle, 443 superior, 439, 681 metacarpal, 419 metatarsal, 486 musculo-plirenic, 400 mylo-hyoid, 379 anterior, 383 nasal, of internal maxillary, 381 lateral, 372 of ophthalmic, 385 maso-palatine, 381 ■obturator, 454 relation to femoral hernia, 435 ■occipital, 372, 672 oesophageal, of aorta, 431 of coronary artery, 436 of inferior thyroid, 396 ■ophthalmic, 382 •orbital, of temporal, 377 ovarian, 444. palatine, inferior or ascending, 371 superior or descending, 380 of pharyngeal, 376 palmar, superficial, 421, 689 deep, 427, 6S9 palpebral, 383 pancreatic, 438 pancreatieo-duodenal, inferior, 439 superior, 436 parietal, of occipital, 373 perforating, of foot, 482, 483, 4S6 of hand, 426, 428 of thigh, 471 of thorax, 400 pericardial, 400, 431 perineal, superficial, 457 in female, 459 transverse, 457 peroneal, 479, 695 anterior, 480 surgical anatomy of, 4S7 pharyngeal, ascending, 375 phrenic, inferior, 445 superior, 400 plantar, internal, 481, 695, 696 external, 481, 695, 696 popliteal, 474, 693, 695 profunda, of arm, inferior. 412,415 superior, 411, 415 of clitoris, 459 of penis, 458 of thigh, 470, 473 pterygoid, 380 Artery—continued. pterygo-palatine, 381 pubic, of epigastric, 464 of obturator, 454 pudic accessory, 459 external, 468 internal, 456 in female, 459 pulmonary, 350, 677 varieties of, 355, 357 pyloric, 436 radial, 423, 688 surgical anatomy of, 430 varieties of, 426 of index-finger, 426 ranine, 369, 670 recurrent, of deep palmar arch, 427 interosseous, posterior, 419, 427 radial, 423, 427 tibial, 484, 485 ulnar, 417, 420, 421 renal, 443, 681, 682 sacral, middle, 448 saphenous, great, 473 small, 477 scapular, dorsal, 406 posterior, 398 sciatic, 459, 691 sigmoid, 441 spermatic, 444 spheno-palatine, 381 spinal, anterior, 393 of ascending cervical, 396 of intercostals, 433 of lumbar, 447 posterior, 393 of vertebral, 393 splenic, 438 sternal, 400 sterno-mastoid (occipital), 373 (superior thyroid), 367 stylo-mastoid, 375 subclavian, 387, 673 surgical anatomy of, 402 varieties of, 357, 391 sublingual, 369 submental, 371 subscapular, 406 of suprascapular, 396 supraaeromial, 39S supraorbital, 3S3, 668 suprarenal, 443, 445 suprascapular, 396 supraspinous, 398 suprasternal, 398 sural, 475 tarsal, 485 temporal, superficial, 377, 66S anterior, 377 deep, 380 middle, 377 posterior, 378 thoracic, acromial, 406 alar, 406 long, 406713 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Artery—continued. thoracic, short or superior, 406 of thumb, dorsal, 426 large, 426 thyroid, inferior, 396, 672 superior, 367, 672 tibial, anterior, 483, 695 surgical anatomy of, 4S7 posterior, 478, 695 surgical anatomy of, 487 tonsillar, 371 tracheal, 396 transverse, of basilar, 395 cervical, 398, 673 facial, 377, 669 humeral or scapular, 396 perineal, 457 tympanic, 378 ulnar, 416, 688 surgical anatomy of, 429 varieties of, 419 umbilical, 451 uterine, 454 vaginal, 453 of vas deferens, 452 vertebral, 392, 672 varieties of, 394 vesical, inferior, 452 middle, 452 superior, 451 vesico-prostatic, 452 vesico-vaginal, 453 Vidian, 381 volar, superficial, 424, 690 Arthrodia (ixpQpov, a joint), 138 Arthrology (apSpov, a joint; A6yos), 137 Articular (articulus, diminutive of artus, a joint) nerve. See Nerves. artery of hip, 454, 470 _ of knee, 475, 693 eminence of temporal bone, 39, 71 processes of vertebrae, 1 o homology of, 23 Articulations {articulus, a joint), 137 acromio-elavicular, 152 of ankle, 177 of astragalus, 179 of atlas and axis, 143 calcaueo-cuboid, 180 ofcalcaneum, 178 carpal, 160 carpo-metacarpal, 161 classification of, 137 of coccyx, 165 of costal cartilages, 29 costo-central, 146 costo-sternal, 147 costo-transverse, 146 cubo-cuneiform, 182 of elbow, 157 foot, 178 forearm, 155 hand, 158 hip, 168 interchondral, 29, 148 Articulations—continued. intermetacarpal, 161 intermetatarsal, 183 interphalangeal of hand, 161 of foot, 184 of knee, 166 of lower limb, 16S m etacarpo-phalangeal, 162 metatarso-phalangeal, 184 modes of, 137 movements of, 138 of navicular bone, 178, 1S1 navieulo-cuboid, 181 naviculo-cuneiform, 181 of pelvis, 164 pubic, 167 radio-carpal, 15S radio-ulnar, superior, 145 inferior, 155 of ribs, 146 sacro-coecygeal, 165 sacro-iliac, 166 sacro-vertebra], 164 scapulo-clavicular, 152 of shoulder, 153 sterno-clavicular, 151 tarsal, 178 tarso-metatarsal, 182 temporo-maxillary, 149, 668 tibio-fibular, 177 of trunk and head, 139 of upper limb, 151 of vertebral column, 139 of wrist, 158 Asterion (a<7T?;c, star), 81 Asternal (a, neg. ; crrepvov, the breast) ribs, 27 Astragalo-calcaneal ligaments, 179 Astragnlo-navicular ligament, 180 Astragalus (aorpayaAos, the ankle-bone, or a die, the astragali of the sheep* having been used as dice by the ancients), 120 articulations of, 178 homology of, 1 33, 134 ossification of, 125 Atlanto-axial ligaments, 145 Atlas, 11 ligaments of, 143 ossification of, 21 Attollens (attollo, I raise up) auriculam muscle, 271 Attrahens (cul, to ; traho, 1 draw) auri- culam muscle, 271 Auditory artery, 395 meatus, external, 40, 61, 71 internal, 41, 66 nerve, 575 pirocess, 40 Auricular arteries, 373, 377, 378 muscles, 271 nerves. Sec Nerves. point, 81 surface of ilium, 105, 166 surface of sacrum, 16, 166INDEX TO VOLUME I. 714 Auricular—continued. veins, anterior, 496 posterior, 498 Auriculo-temporal nerve, 566 Axial portion of body, 2 skeleton, relation of limbs to, 12S Axillary arches, 193 artery, 404, 685 fascia, 196 lymphatic glands, 537 sheath, 289 vein, 511 Axis (vertebra), 12 ossification of, 21 ligaments of, 143 ceeliae, 435, 681, 682 of pelvis, 109 thoracic, 408 thyroid, 395 Azygos (&£vyos, single) artery, 476 veins, 512. See also Museums. Back, fascia; and muscles of, 305 lymphatics of, 539 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 648 Ball and socket joint, 138 Basilar (basis, a base) artery, 394 groove, 34 plexus, 505 process of occipital bone, 32, 34 sinus, 505 vein, 502 Basilic vein (/3a<nAi;co's, royal ; this vein having been supposed by the old physicians to be connected with the liver and spleen, which they termed basilic viscera), 510, 685 Basihyal, 57, 76 Basioccipital, 34, 69, 75 Basion (/3c£crts, base), 81 Basisphenoid, 71, 75 Basitemporal, 71 Bertin, bones of, 43 Biceps (bis, twice ; caput, a head). See Muscles. Bicipital furrows, 685 groove of humerus, 89 tuberosity of radius, 93 Biventer (bis, twice ; venter, a belly), cervieis muscle, 311 Bladder, urinary, ligaments of, true, 337 lymphatics of, 531 nerves of, 665 situation of, 680, 707 Blood-Vessels, description of, 347 See Arteries and Veins, also under the several organs for blood- vessels belonging to them. Bones, Descriptive Anatomy of, 7 astragalus, 120, 123, 133 atlas, 11, 21, 23 axis, 12, 21, 23 Bones—continued. of Bertin, 43 calcaneum, or os ealcis, 119, 125, 134 carpal, 94, 102 clavicle, 84, 99 coccyx, 9, 17, 22 cuboid, 121, 125, 133 cuneiform, of carpus, 95 tarsus, 121, 125 epiptcric, 58, 81 ethmoid, 45, 72 femur, ill, 124 fibula, 117, 125 frontal, 36, 69 of head, 32 homologies of, 75 ossification of, 68 hip, 104, 123, 129 humerus, 88, 100, 685 hyoid, 57, 74, 76, 671 ilium, 105, 123 innominate, 104, 123 interparietal, 69, 75, 81 ischium, 106, 123 lachrymal, 54, 73, 76 of limbs, homological comparison of, 131 morphology of, 128 of lower limb, 104 ossification of, 123 magnum, 96, 102 malar, 53, 73, 76, 667 maxillary, inferior, 55, 73, 76 superior, 47, 72, 76 metacarpal, 97, 102 metatarsal, 122, 125 nasal, 54, 73, 76 navicular of tarsus, 121, 125, 134,695 number of, 9 occipital, 32, 69 palate, 50, 73, 76 parietal, 34, 69 patella, 115, 124 phalangeal, of hand, 98, 102 foot, 123, 125 pisiform, 96, 102, 133, 688 pubic, 106, 123 pyramidal, 95, 102, 133, 688 radius, 93, 101, 687 ribs, 27, 30, 674, 682 sacrum, 9, 15, 21 scaphoid, of carpus, 95, 102, 688 tarsus, 121, 125 scapula, 86, 99, 681 semilunar, 95, 102, 133 sesamoid, in hand, 99 in foot, 123 sphenoid, 42, 71 spongy. See turbinate, sternum, 26, 31 suprasternal, 27 tarsal, 119, 125, 134 temporal, 38, 70. 75, 76 tibia, 115, 125, 694INDEX TO VOLUME I. 715 Bones—continued. trapezium, 96, 102, 133, 688 trapezoid, 96, 102, 133 triquetral, 58 turbinate, inferior, 54, 73, 668 middle, 47, 67 superior, 47, 67 sphenoidal, 43, 72 ulna, 91, 102, 687 of upper limb, S4 ossification of, 99 unciform, 97, 102, 668 vertebra. See VERTEBE2E. vomer, 52, 73, 75 Wormian, 58, 70 Brachial artery, 409. See Artery. muscles, 207 plexus, 603, 673 veins, 511, 512 Bracliialis anticus muscle, 210, 6S5 Brachio-ceplialic (brachium, the arm ; Ke<pa\-q, the head) artery, 360 vein, 490 Brachio-radialis muscle, 218 Brachium (arm), 84 Braehyceplialic (Ppaxbs, short ; K«pa\-ti, the head) skulls, 82 Branchial arches, 76, 78 Breast-bone, 26 Bregma (jSpi-ypa, upper part of head), 80 Bronchi (/3poyxos, the windpipe), situa- tion of, 682 Bronchial arteries, 401, 431 lymphatic glands, 536 veins, 514 Bubonocele (/3ov&uv, the groin ; k^Atj, a tumour), 699 Buccal (bucca, the mouth) artery, 380 nerves, 566, 573 veins. 494 Buccinator (buccina, a trumpet) muscle, 278 Bucco-pharyngeal fascia, 299 Bulb, of jugular vein, 499 of urethra, artery of, 457 Bulbo-cavernosus muscle, 341 Bursae, synovial, or burs® mucosae, 189 Buttock, nerves of, 647 Cjecum, position of, 680 C'alcaneo-cuboid articulation, 180 Caleaneo-navicular ligaments, 179 Calcaneo-plantar nerve, 640 Calcaneal arteries, 480, 482 Calcaneum (belonging to the heel, from calx, the heel). See Os Caleis. Canal, of bone, 8 carotid, 43, 63 crural or femoral, 232, 703 dental, anterior, 49 inferior, 56 posterior, 48, 62 Eustachian, 41 Canal—continued. Hunter’s, 467 infraorbital, 49, 60, 73 inguinal, 696 malar, 53, 59 neural, 10 orbital, internal, 37, 47, 60, 66 palatine, anterior, 49, 62 posterior, 48, 51, 62, 671 palato-maxillary, 48 pterygoid, 45 pterygo-palatine, 45, 52, 62 sacral, 17 spinal, 10 temporal, of malar bone, 53, 60 Vidian, 45, 62 Canaliculi, of eyelids, 670 Canine fossa, 48, 59 Caninus muscle, 278 Canthus, of eyelids, 669 Capitellum (dim. of caput, a head), 8 of humerus, 90, 686 Capitulum (dim. of caput, a head), S of rib, 27 Capsular arteries, 443, 445 ligament of liip, 16S of knee, 171 of shoulder, 153 vein, 518 Capsule of Tenon, 2S4 Caput (a head) of bone, 8 Cardiac (uapSia, the heart) dulness. See Dulness. ganglia, 662 lymphatic glands, 536 nerves. See Nerves. orifice of stomach, position, 680, 682 plexus, 661 veins, 488 Carotid (icapumSej apT-ppiai, from Kapow, I cause sleep : also said to be from Kapa, the head; obs, the car) artery, common, 360, 672 external, 366, 672 internal, 381, 672 canal, 40, 63 foramen, 40, 63 nerves, 578, 653 plexus, 653 sheath, 289 tubercle, 672 Carpal (uapiros, the wrist) arteries, 419, 421, 424, 425 articulations, 160 Carpo-metacarpal articulations, 161 Carpus (Kapmis, the wrist), bones of, 94 homologies of, 132 ossification of, 102 compared with tarsus, 132 ligaments of, 160 Cartilage, aortic, 677 cricoid, 671 pulmonary, 677 of ribs, 29INDEX TO VOLUME I. 71G Cartilage—continued. of ribs, connections of, 147 thyroid, 671 Sec Fibro-cartiiage. Cauda equina (horse’s tail), 592 Cavernous nerves of penis, 665 plexus, 653 sinus, 503 position of nerves in, 552 Cavity, cotyloid, 8, 107 cranial, 65 glenoid, 8, 87 sigmoid of radius, 93 of ulna, 91 Cells, ethmoidal, 46, 68 Central artery of retina, 383 tendon of diaphragm, 319 vein of retina, 506 Centrum of vertebrae, 2, 9, 23 Cephalic (napaX-h, the head) vein, so called from having been supposed by the old physicians to be con- nected with the head, 510, 685 Ceratohyals (/ce'pas, a horn ; hyoid), 57, 76 Cerebellum, arteries of, 394, 395 veins of, 502 Cerebral arteries, 385, 386, 395 veins, 500 Cerebro-spinal nerves, 543 Cerebrum, position and extent, 668 Cervical (cervix, a neck) arteries. See Artery. fascia, 288 ganglia, 651, 656 lymphatic glands, 541 nerves, 593, 597. Sec Nerves. plexus, 598 vertebra;, 10 Cerviealis ascendens muscle, 309 Cervico-faeial division of facial nerve, 573 Cervix (neck) of bone, 8 Chest. See Thorax. superficial anatomy of, 673 C'hiasma (xia£o>, I mark with the letter X ; crossing or decussation) of optic tracts, 550 Child, characters of skeleton in, 135 Chondro-glossus muscle, 296 Chorda tympani, 567, 572 Chordae Willisii, 502 Choroid arteries, 386, 395 vein, 501 Ciliary (cilium, an eyelash) arteries, 383 ganglion, 558 nerves, 557, 558 veins, 507 Circle of Willis, 386 Circular sinus, 504 Circulus tonsillaris, 578 Circumduction, 139 Circumflex arteries. See Artery. nerve, 607, 685 veins. See Vein. Circumflexus palati muscle, 301 Clavicle (clavicula, dim. of clavis, a key), 84, 672, 684 homology of, 129 ligaments of, 151 ossification of, 99 Clavicular artery, 406 Cleido-hyoid muscle, 290 Cleido-mastoid (/cAei's, a key, or the cla- vicle ; mastoid) muscle, 290 Cleido-occipitalis muscle, 290 Clinoid (kAiVtj, a bed ; eTSor, shape) pro- cesses, 43, 45 Clitoris (perhaps from KXelca, I enclose), arteries of, 459 Coaptation (con, together; opto, I fit), 139 Coccygeal artery, 460 ganglion, 660 nerve, 596, 631 plexus, 631 Coccygeus muscle, 341 Coccyx (k6kkv£, a cuckoo), 9, 17 articulations of, 165 ossification of, 22 Coclileariform (cochleare, a spoon; forma, shape) process, 41 Coeliac (icoiXla, the abdomen) artery or axis, 435 lymphatic glands, 534 plexus, 668 Colic (kuXov, the colon or large intestine) arteries, 439, 440 Collar-bone, 84 Collateral circulation. Sec Surgical Anatomy. Colles, fascia of, 334 Colon, ascending, position of, 680, 684 descending, 680, 684 sigmoid flexure, 680 transverse, 680 Conies nervi ischiadici, 460 nervi phrenici, 400 Commissure, optic, 550 Communicating arteries of brain, 386, 395 Complexus muscle, 310 Compressor. See Muscles. Condylar emissary vein, 508 foramen, anterior, 34, 64, 66 posterior, 34 surfaces of tibia, 115 Condyle (/cdrSvAos, a knuckle), 8 Condyles of femur, 114, 692 of humerus, 90, 686 of lower jaw, 56 of occipital bone, 32, 34, 64 Condyloid joint, 138 Confluence of sinuses, 502, 503 Congenital hernia, 699, 700 Conoid (kuvos, a cone ; elSos, shape) tu- bercle, 85 ligament, 152 Constrictor. Sec Muscles. Coraco-acromial ligament, 153 Coraco-brachialis muscle, 208, 685INDEX TO VOLUME I. 717 Coraco-clavicular ligament, 152 Coraeo-liumeral ligament, 154 Coracoid (ko/to|, a raven ; CSos, shape) ligament, 153 process of scapula, 88, ioo, 129,684 Cord, lumbo-sacral, 630 spermatic, 697 Conliform (cor, tlie heart ; forma, shape) tendon of diaphragm, 319 Cornicula (cornicidum, dim. of iKrnu, a horn) of hyoid bone, 57 Cornua of coccyx, 17 of hyoid bone, 57, 74, 76 sacral, 15 of saphenous opening, 231 sphenoidalia, 43 Coronal suture, 57 Coronary arteries of heart, 35S lips, 372, 669 stomach, 435 plexus of heart, 661 of stomach, 663 sinus, 489 veins of heart, 48S of stomach, 526 Coronoid fossa of humerus, 90 process of lower jaw, 56, 61 of ulna, 91 Corpus striatum, vein of, 501 Corpus cavernosum, artery of, 458, 459 Corrugator supereilii muscle, 275 Costa; or ribs, 27 Costal cartilages, 29 Costo-central articulation, 146 Costo-clavicular ligament, 152 Costo-coracoid membrane and ligament, 196 muscle, 267 Costo-fascialis muscle, 291 Costo-sternal articulations, 147 Costo-transverse articulation, 146 Costo-xiphoid ligament, 147 Cotunnius, nerve of, 563 Cotyloid (kotwAtj, a cup ; elSos, shape) cavity, 8 of hip-bone, 107 ligament, 168 notch, 107 Cranial Nerves. See Nerves, Cra- nial. Cranial capacity, 80 cavity, 64 sinuses, 502 Cranio-facial axis, bones forming, 77 Craniometry, 80 Cranium (xpaviov, the skull), 32. See Skull. lymphatics of, 541 venous circulation in, 500 Cremaster (Kpepdoo, I suspend), 327 Cremasteric artery, 464 fascia, 328 Crest of bone, 8 ethmoidal, 51 Crest—couMnued. external and internal occipital, 33, 34 frontal, 37 incisor, 49 infratemporal, 44 lachrymal, 54 nasal, 49, 51 of ilium, 105, 690 of os pubis, 106, 691 of tibia, 116 sphenoidal, 43 temporal, 36, 667 turbinate, inferior, 48, 51 superior, 51 Cribriform (cribrmn, a sieve; forma, shape) fascia, 231 plate of ethmoid bone, 47, 66 of temporal bone, 41 Cricoid cartilage, 671 Crico-thyroid artery, 368, 672 space, 671 vein, 500 Crista galli (cock’s comb), 46, 66 Crucial (crux, a cross) ligaments, 173 Cruciform ligament, 144 Crura of diaphragm, 317 Crural (eras, a leg) arch, deep, 333, 703 superficial, 703 canal, 232, 703 nerve. See Nerves. ring. 333. 7°3 septum, 703 sheath, 232, 333, 702 Crureus muscle, 244. Cubo-cuneiform articulation, 182 Cuboid (icv0os, a cube ; dSos, shape) bone, 121 homology, 133, 134 ligaments of, 1S0, 181 ossification of, 125 Cucullaris (cucullus, a hood) muscle, 190 Cuneiform (euncus, a wedge ; forma,, shape) bones of foot, 121 homology of, 133 ligaments of, 181, 182 ossification of, 125 of hand, 95 Cur valor coccygis muscle, 341 Cutaneous ligaments of phalanges, 225 Cutaneous nerve. See Nerves. Cylindrical bones, 8 Cystic (kwtls, a bladder) artery, 436 plexus, 663 vein, 526 Dartos (Sapriis, the skin of scrotum ; Se'pu,, I flay), 323 Deltoid (AeAra, the letter A, or delta ; dSos, shape) impression, 90 ligament, 177 muscle, 202, 684INDEX TO VOLUME I. i 18 Ear, muscles of, 271 of tongue, 295 Dental arteries. See Artery. canal, anterior, 49 inferior, 56 posterior, 48, 62 foramen, 56 groove, 73, 74 nerves. Sec Nerves. veins, 497, 498 Dentated suture, 137 Depression, infrasterna], 271, 674 Depressor. See Muscles. Dermal (Sipya, skin) skeleton, 7 Descendens noni nerve, 589 Diaphragm (81a, between; tpp&acru, I fence), 317 action of, 321 pelvic, 341 Diaphragma oris. 293 Diaphragmatic ganglion, 602, 662 nerve, 600 plexus, 662 veins, 518 Diaphysis (Sid, between ; <pvo>, I grow), 8 Diapophysis (Sid, apart ; apophysis), 23 Diarthrosis (Sid. between ; apttpov, a joint), 138 Digastric (Si's, twice; yatrrpp, a belly) fossa, 40, 64 muscle, 292, 671, 672 nerve, 573 Digital arteries of foot, 482, 486 of hand, 421, 426 fossa of femur, 112 nerves in foot, 641, 642, 644, 645 in hand, 610, 612, 613, 616, 647 phalanges, 9S Dilatator naris, 276 Diploe (Snr\6os, double), 64 veins of, 507 Disc, interpubic, 167 intervertebral, 139 Dolichocephalic (SoAixds, long ; KtcpaX-p, the head) skulls, 82 Dorsal artery. Sec Artery. ligaments. See Ligament. muscles. See Muscles. nerves. See Nerves. veins. See Veins. vertebrae, 12 Dorsi-lumbar nerve, 621 Dorso-lateral muscle, 188, 345 Dorsum sella; (back of the saddle), 43 Douglas, semilunar fold of, 327 Duct, nasal, 48, 54, 60, 670 right lymphatic, 529 Stenson’s, 669, 670 thoracic, 527 Wharton’s, 670 Dulness, cardiac, deep, 677 superficial, 677 Duret’s researches on the arteries of the brain, 386 Ejaculator mime muscle, 341 Elbow, superficial anatomy of, 686 veins at bend of, 510, 686 Elbow-joint, 157 nerves of, 609, 610, 613 Eminences of bones, 8 Eminence, articular, of temporal bone, 39, 7i frontal, 36, 667 ilio-pectinoal, 106 parietal, 34 Emissary veins, 508 Emulgent (enmlgeo, I milk or drain out), arteries, 443 veins, 518 Enarthrosis (iv, in ; dpQpov, a joint), 138 Endoskeleton (ZvSov, within ; skeleton), 7 Ensiform (ensis, a sword ; forma, shape), process of sternum, 26, 27 Epaxial (iirt, on; axis) muscles, 188, 344 Epicondyle (iirl, on; condyle), 90 Epicranial (eV/, on ; npavlov, the skull) muscles, 270 Epigastric (iirl, on ; 7a.crrr)p, the stomach) artery. Sec Artery. plexus, 662 region, 678 veins, 520, 522, 678 Epiglottis, 671 Epihyal (ini, on ; hyoid bone) bones, 76, 151 Epiotic (iirl, on ; ovs, gen. unis, the ear) centre, 71 Epiphysis (ini, on ; <pvu, I grow), 8 Epipteric hone, 58, 81 Episkeletal (ini, on ; skeleton) muscles, 188 Epitrochlea (iirl, on ; trochlea), 90 Erect attitude, adaptation of skeleton to, 135 maintenance of, 170, 176 Erector. See Muscles. Ethmoid (yOyos, a sieve ; e(5or, shape) bone, 45 ossification of, 72 Ethmoidal arteries, 383 cells or sinuses, 46, 68, 72 crest, 51 notch, 36 process, of inferior turbinate bone, 55 spine, 42 veins, 506 Ethmoturbinals, 46, 76 Eustachian canal, 41 tube, groove for, 44, 63 valve, 517 Exoecipitals, 34, 69, 75 Exoskelton (!'£&>, without; skeleton), ^ Expiration, mechanism of, 322 Extension, 139 Extensor. See Muscles. Extrinsic muscles of limbs, 189713 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Eyeball, movements of, 283 Eyelids and eyebrows, muscles of, 273 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 647 Face, lymphatics of, 541 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 647 Facial angle, S3 artery, 369, 669, 672 nerves. See Neuves. veins. Sec Veins. Falciform {falx, a sickle or scythe ; forma, shape) border of saphen- ous opening, 231 process, 166 Fallopius, aqueduct of, 41 hiatus of, 41, 66 Fasc-ia (a band), 1S9 abdominal, 322, 333 anal, 336 of arm, 207 axillary, 196 bucco-pharyngeal, 299 cervical, deep, 288 of Colies, 334 cremasteric, 328 cribriform, 231 deep, 189 dorsal, of foot, 260 of forearm, 211 hand, 211, 224 head and neck, 270 hip and thigh, 230 iliac, 333 _ infundibuliform, 333, 698 intercolumnar, 325, 69S lata (broad fascia), 231 of leg, 248 lumbar, 190, 307, 330, 433 masseteric, 285 of neck, 288 obturator, 336 of orbit, 284 of palm, 225, 689 parotid, 285, 289 of pectoral region, 196 pelvic, 336 perineal, 334 plantar, 260 prevcrtebral, 289 propria, femoral, 342 of pyriformis, 336 recto-vesical, 336, 707 of Scarpa, 322 semilunar, 208, 687 of shoulder, 202 spermatic, 325, 698 subpubic, 335 superficial or subcutaneous, 1S9 temporal, 285 of Tenon, 284 of thigh, 230 Fascia—continued. transversalis, 333 triangular, 325 of trunk, anterior, 196 posterior, 190 morphology of, 344 of upper limb, 190 Fauces (the throat), isthmus of, 300 pillars of, 300 Femoral {femur, the thigh) artery, 465- Sec Artery. canal, 230, 703 glands, 530, 691 hernia. See Hernia. ligament, 232 muscles, anterior, 240 internal, 246 posterior, 238 ring, 703 sheath, 232, 702 vein, 521 Femur, 111 artery of, 472 - compared with humerus, 132, 134 ossification of, 124 nerve of, 629 Fibro-cartilage, interarticular, of knee, 173 of lower jaw, 150 radio-ulnar, 156 scapulo-clavicular, 152 sterno-clavicular, 151 Fibula (a brace, a clasp), 117 artery of, 480 ossification of, 125 nerve of, 640 Fibular artery, superior, 484 Fingers, bones of, 98, 102 movements of, 163 transverse ligament of, 225 Fissure of bone, 9 of Glaser, 39, 40, 41 incisor, 72 palpebral, 669 parietal-occipital, position, 668 pterygo-maxillary, 62 sphenoidal, 45, 59, 66 position of nerves in, 552 spheno-maxillary, 60, 62 of Sylvius, position, 668 Flat bones, 8 Flexion, 139 Flexor. See Muscles. Floating ribs, 27 Floccular fossa, 71 Flower, craniometry, 80 homologous parts of scapula and ilium, 129, 135 ossification of temporal bone, 71 Foetal development, 2 Fontanelles {foils, a fountain), 70, 667 Foot, arteries of, dorsal, 485 plantar, 480 articulations of, 178720 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Foot—con tinned. bones of, 104, 119 compared with hand, 132 ossification of, 123 fascia of, 260 muscles of, 261 nerves of, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 649, 630 superficial anatomy of, 695 Foramen (foro, I pierce) of bone, 8 caecum of frontal bone, 38, 68 carotid, 40, 63 dental, inferior, 56 incisor, 49 infraorbital, 48, 59, 669 jugular, 64, 66 jugularc spur hem, 505 lacerum medium, 63, 66 orbital e, 59 posterius, 66 magnum, 32, 64, 66, S2, 135 mastoid, 40 mental, 56, 59, 669 obturator, 104, 107 occipital, 32, 64, 66 optic, 45, 60, 66 ovale of hip-bone, 107 ovale of sphenoid, 45, 62, 66 parietal, 34 quadratum, 319 rotundum, 45, 62, 66 sacro-sciatic, great and small, 167 spheno-palatine, 52, 62 spinal, 10, 11, 13, 14 spinosum, 45, 62, 66 sternalc, 27, 31 stylo-mastoid, 40, 64 supraorbital, 36, 59, 60, 667 supratrochlear, 91 thyroid, 107 of a vertebra, 10 vertebrartorial, it, 23 Foramina, condylar, anterior, 34, 64, 66 posterior, 34 of diaphragm, 319 of ethmoid bone, 47, 66 intervertebral, 10 sacral, anterior, 15 posterior, 16 of Scarpa, 49 of Stenson, 49 Forearm, aponeurosis of, 212 arteries of, 416 bones of, 91 compared with leg, 132 ossification of, 101 muscles and fasciae of, 211 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 687 veins of, 508 Form, symmetry of, 5 Fossa of bone, 8 canine, 48, 59 coronoid, 90 F ossa—continued. digastric, 40, 64 digital, 112 glenoid of temporal bone, 39, 61, 71 guttural, 62 iliac, 105 incisor of lower jaw, 56 of upper jaw, 48, 59 infraclavicular, 85, 673, 684 infraspinous, 87 intercondylar, 114 ischio-rectal, 705 jugular, 40 lachrymal, 37, 60 myrtiform, 48 navicular, 45 olecranon, 90 pituitary, 42 pterygoid, 45, 63 .spheno-maxillary, 62 subscapular, 86 supraclavicular, 85, 673 supraspinous, 87 temporal, 61 trochanteric, 112 trochlear, 37 zygomatic, 61, 62 Fossai, inguinal, 702 nasal, 67 occipital, superior and inferior, 33 Pacchionian, 35, 65 of skull, internal, 66 Frcenum, of lips, 670 of tongue, 670 Frontal (from, the forehead) arterv, 385, 668 bone, 36, 75 ossification of, 69 crest, 37 eminence, 36, 667 nerve, 556 notch, 556 sinus, 37, 68, 70, 667 sulcus, 37 suture, 18, 58, 70 vein, 494, 668 of diploe, 507 Frontalis muscle, 270 Fronto-parietal suture, 57 Fronto-temporal suture, 81 Furrow of bone, 8 of Kolando, position, 668 superficial abdominal, 679 bicipital, 685 iliac, 690 inguinal, 677, 691 sternal, 674 spinal, 20, 681 Galen, veins of, 501 Gall-bladder, position of, 679 Ganglia of cardiac nerves, 662 cervical, 651 of glosso-pliaryngeal nerve, 576721 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Ganglia—continued. lumbar, 660 meseraica, 664 of pneumo-gastrie nerve, 579 renal, 663 sacral, 660 semilunar, 662 of spinal nerves, 591 thoracic, 657 Gaugliated cord, sympathetic, 650 cervical part, 651 connections with cerebro-spinal sys- tem, 650 lumbar part, 660 sacral part, 660 thoracic part, 657 Ganglion, Arnold’s, 568 cervical, lower, 656 middle, 656 upper, 651 ciliary, 558 coccygeal, 660 diaphragmatic, 602, 662 on facial nerve, 571 of fifth pair, or Gasserian, 534 geniculate, 571 impar, 660 jugular of glosso-pharyngeal, 576 of vagus, 579 lenticular, 55S lingual, 568 Meckel’s, 562 nasal, 562 ophthalmic, 558 otic, 568 petrous, 576 phrenic, 602, 662 semilunar (of abdomen), 662 semilunare (Gasserian), 554 spheno-palatine, 562 splanchnic, 657 splanchnico-suprarenalc, 663 sublingual, 568 submaxillary, 568 temporal, 656 thyroid, 656 of Wrisberg, 661 Gasserian ganglion, 554 Gastric (7aarrjp, the stomach) arteries, 435. 436, 439 lymphatic glands, 534 nerves, 586 Gastrocnemius (yam-bp, the belly ; KV-g/tri, the leg) muscle, 253 Gastro-duodenal (yam-op, the stomach; duodenum) artery, 436 Gastro-epiploic (yam-op ; i-ir'nr\oov, the omentum) arteries, 436, 439 plexuses, 663, 664 veins, 526 Gegenbaur, homologies of carpus and tarsus, 133 Gemelli (twin) muscles, 236 Geniculate ganglion, 571 Genio-glossus, or Genio-hyo-glossus (yiveiov, the chin ; voeiSbs, hyoid bone ; y\uuaa, the tongue) muscle, 295 Genio-hyoid muscle, 294 Genital nerve, 623 Genito-crural nerve, 623 Genito-urinary muscles, 341 Gimbernat’s ligament, 325, 703 Ginglymus (yiyy\ufios, a hinge), 138 Girdles, shoulder and pelvic, comparison of, 129 Glabella (dim. of glabra, fem. of glabcr, smooth), 36 Glands, Lymphatic. See Lymphatic Glands. Meibomian, 670 parotid, 669 sublingual, 670 submaxillary, 671 Glaser, fissure of, 39, 40, 41 Glenoid (7\-bv-o, a shallow pit of a bone ; e?5os, shape), cavity, 8 of scapula, 87 fossa of temporal bone, 39, 61, 71 ligament, 155 Gliding, 139 Gliding joint, 138 Glosso-pharyngeal (y\S>aaa, the tongue ; ipdpvy£, the pharynx) nerve, 575 Gluteal artery, 461, 691 nerves, 635 region. See Hip. ridge, ir4 veins, 522 Glutei (y\ovTos, buttock) muscles. See Muscles. Gnathic (yrados, jaw) index, 83 Gracilis (slender) muscle, 246 Groin, anatomy of, 696 Groove, bicipital, 89 of bone, 8 dental, 73, 74 for Eustachian tube, 44, 63 infraorbital, 49 lachrymal, 48, 54, 60 mylo-hyoid, 56 occipital, 40, 64 olfactory, 47, 66 spiral, 90 sternal, 27, 674 subcostal, 28 vertebral, 19 Gustatory (gusto, I taste) nerve, 567 Guttural (guttur, the throat) fossa, 62 Haimal (aT/ua, blood) septum, 344 Hcemorrhoidal (aT/u.a, blood ; ptu, I flow) arteries. See Artery. nerves. See NebVes. plexus of veins, 524 of nerves, 665 Hamstring muscles, 238 3 A VOL. I.722 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Hamular (Hamulus, dim. of hamus, a hook) process, of sphenoid bone, 45, 670 of lachrymal bone, 54 Hand, arteries of, 421 varieties of, 428 articulations of, 158 bones of, 84, 94 ossification of, 102 compared with foot, 132 muscles and fascia.1 of, 224 action and varieties of, 225, 229 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 688 Harinonia (appAfa, I fit together), 137 Haunch, 104 Head, bones of, 32 homologies of, 75 bones of, morphology of, 74 ossification of, 68 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 647 typical component parts of, 75 Head of a bone, 8 Head and neclc, fascia; and muscles of, 270 lymphatics of, 539 veins of, 493 Heart, arteries of, 358 lymphatics of, 537 nerves of, 583, 654, 656, 661 position of, 675 veins of, 488 Hepatic (^irap, the liver) artery, 436 flexure of colon, 680 lymphatic glands, 535 plexus, 668 veins, 518 Hernia (epvos, a branch), congenital, 699 femoral, 702 infantile, 699 inguinal, 696 direct or internal, 700 in female, 702 oblique or external, 699 in female, 700 varieties of, 698 lumbar, 325 scrotal, 699 tunicas vaginalis, 699 umbilical, 696 ventro-inguinal, 700 Hesselbach, triangle of, 701 Hiatus (an opening, from Mo, v. n., I open) aorticus, 319 Fallopii, 41, 66 interosseus, 156 Highmore, antrum of, 47, 50, 68, 73 Hinge-joint, 138 Hip-bone, 104, 123, 129 Hip-joint, 168 ligaments of, 168 movements of, 170 nerves of, 625, 626, 628, 633 Hip, muscles of, 232 nerves of, 647, 649 superficial anatomy of, 690 Hip and thigh, fascia of, 230 Histology7 (laris, a web; AAyos, dis- course), I Homologies of bones of head, 75 carpus and tarsus, 133, 134 hand and foot, 132 muscles of limbs, 268 scapula and ilium, 129, 135 shoulder and pelvic gir- dles, 129 upper and lower limbs, 128 vertebrae, 22 Homodynamy (ApAs, the same ; Simpis, power), 5 Homogeny (6pis, the same ; yeveens, origin), 5 Homology (6/xAs, the suite ; \Ayos, pro- portion), 5 Humeral artery, 409 of acromio-thoracic, 406 transverse, 396 Humerus (the shoulder), 88, 685 artery of, 412 compared with femur, 132, 134 nerve of, 609 ossification of, 100 Hunter’s canal, 467 Huxley, on ossification of temporal bone, *70 Hyo-glossus (voeiSps, hyoid bone; yXucraa, tongue) muscle, 296 Hyoid arteries, 367, 368 Hyoid (v, the letter upsilon; elSos, shape) bone, 57, 76, 671 ossification of, 74 Hyo-mental region, 671 Hyo-sternal region, 671 Hypapophysis (vnA, under; apophysis), 23, 24 Hypaxial (vwA, under; axis) muscles, 188, 344 Hypochondriac region, 678 Hypogastric (for A, under; yaarfip, the stomach), artery, 451, 701 nerve, 623 region, 678 plexus, 664 Hypoglossal (tinA, under ; y\S>aaa, the tongue) nerve, 587, 672 Hvposkeletal (viri, under ; skeleton) mus- cles, 188 Hypothenar (virA, under; 6ivap, the palm), eminence, 225, 689 Ileo-ooi.ic artery7, 439 Iliac arteries. See Artery. fascia, 333 fossa, 105INDEX TO VOLUME I. 723 Iliac—continued. furrow, 690 lymphatic glands, 531 nerve, 622 portion of fascia lata, 232 region, 678 veins. Sec Veins. Iliacus. See Ml'scles. Uio-aponeurotic muscle, 235 Ilio-cwpsularis muscle, 241 Ilio-costalis muscle, 309 Uio-femoral ligament, 170 Uio-hypogastric nerve, 622 Uio-inguinal nerve, 622 llio-lumbar artery, 461 ligament, 164 vein, 519 Ilio-pectineal eminence, ro6 line, 105, 106 Ilio-psoas muscle, 240 Ilio-tibial band, 231, 691, 693 Tlio-trocliantcric ligament, 170 Ilium (ilia, the Hanks), 105 homology of, 129, 135 ossification of, 123 Incisor crest, 49 foramen, or canal, 49 fissure, 72 fossa, lower jaw, 56 upper jaw, 48, 59 nerve, 567 process, of upper jaw, 73 Incisura (notch), 9 semilunaris, of sternum, 26 Incus (an anvil), 76 Index, alveolar, S3 cephalic, 82 gnathic, 83 nasal, 83 of breath, 82 of height, 82 orbital, 83 pelvic, hi Indicator muscle, 224 Infantile hernia, 699 Infraclavicular fossa, 85, 673, 684 lymphatic glands, 537 Infrahyoid muscles, 290 region, 671 Inframaxillary nerve, 575 Infraorbital artery, 380 canal, 49, 60, 73 foramen, 48, 59, 669 groove, 49 nerve, 559, 573, 669 plexus, 561 vein, 498 Infraspinous fossa, 87 Infraspinatus muscle, 204 Infrasternal depression or fossa, 27. 674 Infratemporal crest, 44 Infratrochlear nerve, 557 Iufundibuliform fascia, 333, 698 Infundibulum (funnel) of ethmoid bone, 47, 67 Inguinal (inguen, the groin), aperture,, external, 325 internal, 333 canal, 696 fossa;, 702 furrow, 677, 691 hernia. See Hernia, lymphatic glands, 529, 691 region, 678 Inion (iviov, the nape of the neck), Si Innominate artery, 360, 672, 677 hone, 104, 123 veins, 490, 677 Inscriptiones tendineae, 330, 679 Insertion of muscles, 187 Inspiration, mechanism of, 325 Interaccessorii muscles, 313 Interarticular fibro-cartilages and liga- ments. See the various joints. Interclavicular notch, 26 ligament, 151 Intercolumnar fascia and fibres, 325, 698’ Intercondylar fossa, 114 Intercostal arteries, 400, 401, 431, 677 lymphatics, 53.5, 537 muscles, 314 actions of, 321 nerves, 619 spaces, 30, 674 veins, 493 Intercosto-humeral nerve, 619 Intermaxillary bone, 76 Intermesenteric plexus, 664 Intermetacarpal articulations, 161 Intermetatarsal articulations, 183 Intermuscular septa. See Septa. Internodia (inter, between ; nodus-,. knot), 98 Interosseous arteries. See Artery.. muscles, of hand, 227 of foot, 265 nerves, 613, 616, 645, 686 Interparietal bone, 69, 75, 81 suture, 57 Interphalangeal articulations, hand, 163 toes, 184 Interpubic disc, 167 Interspinales muscles, 312 Interspiuous ligaments, 142 Intertransversales muscles, 312 Intertransverse ligaments, 142 Intertrochanteric lines, 112, 113 Intervertebral discs, 139, 164, 165 foramina, 10 Intestinal arteries, 439 Intrinsic muscles of limbs, 189, 267 Intumescentia ganglioformis, 571 Irregular or mixed bones, 8 Ischio-capsular ligament, 170 Ischio-cavernosus muscle, 341, 343 Ischio-rectal fossa, 705 Ischium (iVxW, the hip), 106 homology of, 129, 134 ossification of, 123 Isthmus of the fauces, 300INDEX TO VOLUME I. 724 Jacobson’s nerve, 579 foramen for, 41 Jaw, lower, 55, 76 articulation of, 149 muscles of, 285 ossification of, 73 upper, 47, 76 ossification of, 72 Joint. See Articulation. Joints, motions of bones in, 138 various forms of, 137 Jugal (jugum, a yoke) bones, 76 Jugular facet of temporal bone, 40 foramen, 64, 66 fossa, 40 ganglion, 576 notch, 34 process, 34 veins. See Vein. Jugulo-ccphalic vein, 510 Kidney, lymphatics of, 532 situation of, 680, 684 Knee, superficial anatomy of, 692 Knee-joint, 171 movements of, 175 nerves of, 625, 628, 629, 639 Knee-pan, 115 Labial artery, inferior, 371 nerve of inferior dental, 567 infraorbital, 561 veins, 494 Lachrymal artery, 383 bone, 54, 76 ossification of, 73 crest, 54 fossa, 37, 60 groove, 48, 54, 60 nerve, 555 notch, 49 process of inferior turbinate bone, 55 sac, 670 vein, 506 (Lacteals (lac, milk), 534 Lambda (the letter A), 80 Lamlxloid suture, 57, 667 Lamina of a vertebra, 9 cribrosa of temporal bone, 41 Lamin?e, or plates of vertebrae, 9, 10, 13, 14. IS Laryngeal arteries, 368, 396 nerves, 582 veins, 492, 500 Lateral mass of atlas, 11 of ethmoid, 45, 46, 72, 76 of sacrum, 16 sinus, 503, 505, 668 Latissimus dorsi muscle, 191, 674 Leg, aponeurosis of, 248 bones of, 115, 117 muscles of, anterior, 250 external, 252 posterior, 253 nerves of, cutaneous 647 Leg—continued. nerves of, muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 694 Lenticular (dim. from lens) ganglion, 55S Leptorhine (Kcitris, narrow; pis, f>tv6s, the nose) skulls, 83 Levator. See Muscles. Ligamenta arcuata, 318 subflava, 141 Ligaments (ligo, I bind), acromio-clavi- cular, 152 alar, 175 alar odontoid, 144 of ankle, 177 annular, of ankle, anterior, 249 external, 250 internal, 249 of radius, 155 of wrist, anterior, 161, 212 posterior, 161,212 arched, of diaphragm, 318 astragalo-calcaneal, 179 astragalo-navicular, 180 atlanto-axial, 145 of atlas, transverse, 143 of bladder, true, 337 calcaneo-cuboid, 180 calcaneo-navicular, 179 carpal, 160 carpo-metacarpal, 161 check, 144 of coccyx, 165 conoid, 152 coraco-acromial, 153 coraco-clavicular, 152 coraco-humeral, 154 coracoid, 153 costo-central, 146 costo-clavieular, 152 costo-cora.coid, 196 costo-sternal, 147 eosto-transverse, 147 costo-xiphoid, 147 cotyloid, 168 crucial, 173 cruciform, 144 cubo-cuneiform, 182 of cuboid bone, 180, 181, 182 of cuneiform bones, 182 deltoid, 177 of elbow, 157 femoral 232 of foot, 178 of forearm, 155 Gimbernat’s, 325, 703 glenoid, 155 of hand, 160 of liip-joint, 168 ilio-femoral, 169 ilio-lumbar, 164 ilio-troclianteric, 170 interarticular, of hip, 16S interelavicular, 151 interspinous, 142 intertransverse, 142INDEX TO VOLUME I. 72i» Ligaments—continued. ischio-capsular, 170 of knee-joint, 171 metacarpal, 161 of thumb, 162 metacarpo-phalangeal, 162 metatarsal, 183 transverse, 184 metatarso-phalangeal, 1S4 mucous, 175 naviculo-cuboid, 181 naviculo-cuneiform, 1S1 obturator, 167 occipito-atlantal, 144 occipito-axial, 144 odontoid, alar, 144 middle, 144 orbicular, 155 palmar, 160, 162 of patella, 173 lateral, 174 of pelvis, 164 of phalanges, fingers, 163 cutaneous, 225 toes, 185 I’oupart’s, 324, 691 ptervgo-maxillary, 280, 671 ptcrygo-spinous, 287 pubic, 167 pubo-femoral, 170 pubo-prostatic, 337 radio-carpal, 159 radio-ulnar, 155 of rectum, 338 rhomboid, 152 of ribs, 146 round, radio-ulnar, 156 of hip, 168 sacro-coecygeal, 165 sacro-iliac, 166 sacro-sciatic, 166 sacro-vertebral, 164 of scapula, 153 scapulo-clavicular, 152 of shoulder-joint, 153 stellate, 146 of sternum, 148 sterno-elavieular, 151 stylo-hyoid, 57, 74, 76, 150 stylo-maxillary, 150, 285, 2S9 subpubic, 167 suprascapular, 153 supraspinous, 142 suspensory of axis, 144 of penis, 322 tarsal, 178 of eyelids, 273, 670 tarso-metatarsal, 182 temporo-maxillary, 149 tibio-fibular, 177 transverse of atlas, 143 of acetabulum, 168 of fingers, 225 metacarpal, 161 metatarsal, 184 L1 gam ents—con t in ucd. transverse of pelvis, 335 of toes, 261 trapezoid, 153 triangular, of urethra, 335 of upper limb, 151 vaginal, 217 vertebral, 139 of wrist, 159 Ligamentum arcuatum externum, 318 areuatum internum, 318 breve (of fingers), 217 longum (of fingers), 217 nuehffi, 142, 681 patellae, 173, 693 teres of hip-joint, 168 Limb, lower, articulations of, 16S bones of, 104 ossification of, 123 fasciae of, 230 lymphatics of, 529 muscles of, 230, 268 nerves of, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 690 veins of, 519 upper, articulations of, 151 bones of, 84 ossification of, 99 fasciae of, 190 lymphatics of, 537 muscles of, 190, 26S nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 684 veins of, 508 Limbs,distinctive characters of, in man, 136- homological comparison of, 128 homologous bones, tables of, 134 homology of muscles of, 268 morphology of bones of, 128 of muscles, 266 relation to axial skeleton, 12S Line, curved, of ilium, 105 occipital, 33 ilio-pectineal, 105, 106 intertrochanteric, 112, 113 Nelaton’s, 690 external oblique of lower jaw, 56 popliteal, 116 supracondylar, of femur, 114 temporal, 34, 62, 667 trapezoid, 85 Linea alba, 332, 679 aspera, 113 Linea1 semilunares, 332, 679 transversa, 332 Lingual artery, 368, 672 lymphatic glands, 341 nerve, of fifth, 567, 671 of glosso-pharyngeal, 578 of vagus, 582 veins, 500 Lingula sphenoidal is, 43, 66, 71 Lips, muscles of, 277726 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Liver, lymphatics of, 534 position and extent of, 679 Long or cylindrical hones, 8 Longissimus dorsi muscle, 309 Longns colli muscle, 304 Longitudinal sinuses, superior and in- ferior, 502, 503, 503, 668 Lumbar aponeurosis or fascia, 190, 307, 333. 334 arteries, 445 ganglia, 660 lymphatic glands, 532 nerves, anterior divisions of, 621 posterior, 596 fifth, 630 plexus, 621 region, 678 veins, 517 vertebra;, 14 Lumbo-inguinal nerve, 626 Lumbo-sacral cord or nerve, 630 Lumbricales (lumbricus, an earthworm). See Muscles. Lungs, lymphatics of, 537 position and extent, 674, 682 Lymphatic duct, right, 527, 529 glands, 527 axillary, 537 bronchial, 536 cardiac, 536 cervical, 540, 541 cceliac, 534 femoral, 530, 691 gastric, 534 hepatic, 535 iliac, 531 inguinal, 529, 691 intercostal, 535 infraclavicular, 537 internal maxillary, 539 lumbar, 532 mastoid, 539 mediastinal, anterior, 535 posterior, 536 superior, 536 mesenteric, 532 parotid, 539 pectoral,' 537 popliteal, 529, 694 sacral, 531 sternal, 535 submaxillary, 540 suboccipital, 539 subscapular, 537 suprahyoid, 540 of thorax, 535 trunk, axillary, 538 intestinal, 534 jugular, 541 lumbai-, 532 Lymphatics, DescriptiveAnatomyof, 527 of abdominal wall, 532 hack, 539 bladder, 531 cranial cavity, 541 Lymphatics—continued. of face, 541 head and neck, 539 heart, 537 intercostal, 537 of kidney, 532 limb, lower, 529 upper, 537 liver, 534 lungs, 537 oesophagus, 537 pancreas, 534 penis, 531 pia mater, 541 rectum, 532 scrotum, 531 spleen, 534 stomach, 534 suprarenal capsules, 532 testicle, 532 thorax, 535 thymus gland, 537 trunk, lower half, 531 ureter, 532 uterus, 532 Malar (mala, the cheek) arteries, 383 bone, 53, 76, 667 ossification of, 73 canal, 53, 59 nerve, of facial, 573 of orbital, 560 process, 47, 49 Malleolar ('malleolus, the ankle) arteries, 479. 485 Malleolus (dim. of malleus, a hammer : the ankle), external, 117, 694, 695 internal, 116, 694, 695 Malleus (a hammer), 76 Mammary (mamma, the breast) artery, external, 406, 408 internal, 399, 677 vein, internal, 493 Mammillary (mammilla, a nipple) pro- cesses of vertebra*, 15, 24 Mandible, 55, 76 Manubrium (a handle) of sternum, 26 Marrow of bone, 7 Martins on homologies of limbs, 132 Masseter (/naaadofxcu, I chew) muscle, 285, 669 Masseteric (masseter) artery, 3S0 fascia, 285 nerve, 565 veins, 494 Mastication, muscles of, 2S5 Mastoid (guards, a nipple ; elSos, form) arteries, 373, 375 cells, 71 emissary vein, 491, 508 foramen, 40 lymphatic glands, 539 portion of temporal bone, 38, 39, 70 process, 39, 61, 64, 71, 667INDEX TO VOLUME I. 727 Maxillary (maxilla, a jaw) artery, external, 369 internal, 378 bone. See Jaw. lymphatic glands, internal, 539 nerve, inferior, 564 superior, 559 sinus, 47, 50, 67, 68, 73 vein, internal, 496 Maxilloturbinal bone, 54, 76 Meatus (mco, I pass), 8 external auditory, 40, 6r, 71 internal auditory, 41, 66 of nose, 47, 67 Meckel’s cartilage, 73 ganglion, 562 Median artery, 414, 419, 421 basilic (B<x<tiAik6s, royal) vein, 510, 686 cephalic (icetpaAr), the head) vein, 510, 686 line, 5 nerve, 613, 685, 687 veins, superficial and deep, 509, 688 Mediastinal arteries, 400, 431 lymphatic glands, 535, 536 venous plexus, 574 Medulla (marrow) of bones, 7 Medullary arteries. See Artery. Megacephalic (piyo.s, great; icccpaAri, head) skulls, 80 Megaseme (peyas, great ; ay pa, index) index, 83 Meibomian glands, 670 Membrana sacciformis, 156 Membrane, bones, of head, 75 costo-coracoid, 196 interosseous, of forearm, 75 of leg, 177 'obturator, 167 Meningeal arteries. See Artery. grooves, 35, 38, 65 veins, middle, 498 Mental (mentuvi, the chin) foramen, 56, 59. 669 nerve, 567 prominence, 56 spines, 56 Mcnto-hyoid muscle, 293 Mesaticephalic (piaos, middle ; ice<pa\y, head) skulls, 82 Mesenteric (peaos, middle ; Zvrepov, intes- tine) arteries. See Artery. glands, 532 plexus, inferior, 664 superior, 664 veins, 526 Mesethmoid, 46, 75 Mesial (peaos, middle) plane, 5 Mesoeephalic (pea-os, middle ; icspa\y, head) skulls, 80 Mesognathous (piaos, middle ; yvddos, jaw) skulls, 83 Mesorhine {yea-os, middle ; pis, piv&s, nose) skulls, 83 Mesoseme (piaos, middle ; aypa, index) orbital index, S3 Mesosternum, (peaos, middle; aripvov, the chest), 26, 27 Metacarpal arteries, 419 Metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, 162 Metacarpus (perd, beyond ; KapirtSs, the wrist), 97 articulations of, 161 ossification of, 102 Metapophysis (peril, beyond ; apophysis), 15. 24 Metasternum (peril, beyond; aripvov, the chest), 26, 27 Metatarsal artery, 486 Metatarso-phalangeal articulations, 184 Metatarsus (pera, beyond ; raperds, the instep), 122 ossification of, 125 Metopic (perwirov, forehead) suture, 38 Mierocepbalic (pixpos, small ; Ke<pa\y, head) skulls, 80 Microseme (piKpds, small ; KepaX-ij, head) orbital index, S3 Midriff (Sax. midd, middle ; hrif, the belly), 317 Morphology (poppy, form; xdyos, dis- course), 2 of bones of head, 74 of limbs, 128 of fascire of trunk and head, 344 of muscles of limbs, 266 of trunk and head, 344 Motor oculi nerve, 550 Mouth, muscles of, 277 Movement, various kinds of, 138 Movements of ankle-joint, 178 clavicle, 153 elbow, 158 foot and toes, 185 hip, 170 knee, 175 lower jaw, 151 occipito-vertebral, 145 of patella on femur, 176 pelvis, 167 radius on ulna, 156 respiration, 320 ribs, 148 scapular, 153 shoulder, 155 vertebral column, 143 wrist and fingers, 163 Multifidus (multus, many; Jindo, I cleave) spin® muscle, 311 Muscles, Descriptive Anatomy of, 186 abductor hallucis, 262 indicis, 227, 688 abductor longus pollicis, 222 abductor minimi digiti (hand) 227 minimi digiti (foot), 263 ossis metatarsi quinti, 263 pollicis, 225 pollicis pedis', 262 accessorius ad ilio-costalem, 309728 IXDEX TO VOLUME I. Muscles—continued accessorius tricipilis, 213 abductor brevis, 246 gracilis, 246 hallueis, 264 longus, 246 magnus, 247 minimus, 248 pollicis, 227, 68S pollicis pedis, 264 amygdalo-glossus, 301 anconeus, 211, 687 anomalus, 277 attollens aurieulam, 271 attrahens aurieulam, 271 auricularis, superior, anterior, et posterior, 271 azygos pharyngis, 299 uvulae, 301 biceps flexor cruris, 238 flexor cubiti, 685 biventer cervicis, 311 bracliialis anticus, 210, 685 bracbio-radialis, 218 buccinator, 278 bulbo-cavernosus, 341, 343 caninus, 278 cervicalis ascendens, 309 chondro-epitrochlcaris, 197 chondro-glossus, 296 circuniflexus palati, 301 clcido-kyoid, 290 clcido-mastoid, 290 cleido-occipitalis, 290 coccygeus, 341 eomplexus, 310 compressor hemisphccriiLni bulbi, 342 compressor naris, 276 urethrae, 342, 344 comprcssorcs voice dorsalis penis, 341 constrictor of pharynx, inferior, 297 middle, 298 superior, 299 isthmi faucium, 300 urethrae, 342, 344 coraco-bracliialis, 208, 68$ corrugator supercilii, 275 costo-fascialis, 291 cremaster, 327 crureus, 244 cueuUaris (like a hood), 190 curvator coccygis, 341 deltoid, 202, 684 depressor alee nasi, 276 anguli oris, 280 labii inferioris, 280 diapln-agm, 317. See Diaphragm. diaphragma oris, 293 digastric, 292, 671, 672 dilatator naris anterior, 276 naris posterior, 276 dorso-epitrochlcaris, 193, 211 ejaculator urinae, 343 Muscles—continued. epitrochlco-anconeus, 2II erector clitoridis, 343 penis, 341, 343 erector spinai, 307 extensor brevis digitorum pedis, 261 brevis hallueis, 262 carpi radialis accessorius, 220 carpi radialis brevior, 219 carpi radialis longior, 219, 685 carpi ulnaris, 221, 687 coccygis, 310 communis digitorum, 220, 688 indicis, 224 longus digitorum pedis, 251 minimi digiti, 221, 688 ossis metacarpi pollicis, 222, 688 ossis metatarsi hallueis, 251 prvm/i intemodii hallueis, 251 primi internodii pollicis, 222, 688 proprius hallueis, 250, 695 secundi internodii pollicis, 223, 688 flexor accessorius, 258 accessorius longus, 258 brevis digitorum pedis, 262 brevis hallueis, 263 brevis minimi digiti (hand), 227 brevis minimi digiti (foot), 264 brevis pollicis, 226 brevis pollicis pedis, 263 carpi radialis, 213, 687 carpi radialis brevis, 218 carpi ulnaris, 214, 687 digiti secundi {foot), 258 longus digitorum pedis, 257 longus hallueis, 259 longus pollicis,, 217 longus pollicis pedis, 259 perforans digitorum manus, 215 perforans digitorum pedis, 257 perforatus digitorum manus, 215 perforatus digitorum pedis, 262 profundus digitorum, 215, 687 sublimis digitorum, 215 frontalis, 270 gastrocnemius, 253 gemelli, 236 genio-glossus, 295 genio-liyo-glossus, 291; genio-liyoid, 294 gluteus maximus, 232, 681, 690 medius, 234, 690 minimus, 234 gracilis, 246 liyo-glossus, 296 iliacus, 240 iliacus minor, 241 ilio-aponeurotic, 235 ilio-capsularis, 241 ilio-costalis, 309 ilio-psoas, 240 indicator, 224 infraspinatus, 204INDEX TO VOLUME I. 720 sci-.ES—continued. intcrcostals, 314 action ot, 321 interosseous, of hand, 227 of foot, 265 interspinales, 312 intertransversales, 312 ischio-cavernosus, 341, 343 latissimus dorsi, 191, 674 levator anguli oris, 278 anguli scapula;, 195 uni, 340 claviculce, 196 coccygis, 341 labii inferioris, 280 labii superioris proprius, 277 labii superioris absque nasi, 276 nienti, 280 palati, 301 palpebrae superioris, 275, 281 proprius ala; nasi anterior, 276 posterior, 276 levatores costarum, 315 longiores costaruin, 315 longissimus dorsi, 309 longus colli, 304 lumbricales of hand, 216 of foot, 238 malaris, 273 masseter, 285, 669 meiito-Jnjoid, 293 multifidus spinse, 311 mylo-glossus, 296 mylo-hyofd, 293 oblique, of eye, inferior. 282 superior, 282 obliquus externus abdominis, 323, 674, 679, 690 interims, 326 capitis inferior, 313 superior, 313 obturator externus, 237 internus, 235 occipitalis, 270 occipitalis minor, 288 occipito-frontalis, 270 occipito-pharyngcus, 299 oino-hyoid, 292, 672, 673 opponens hallucis, 264 minimi digiti (foot), 265 opponens minimi digiti (hand), 227 pollicis, 226 orbicularis oris, 277 palpebrarum, 273 palato-glossus, 300 palato-pharyngeus, 301 palmaris brevis, 225 longus, 214 pectineus, 246 pectoralis major, 196, 673 minor, 197, 674 pcroneo-calcaneus interims, 259 pcronco-tibialis, 256 M USCLES—coni inurd. peroneus brevis, 253 peroneus longus, 252 tertius, 252 peroneus accessorius, 253 quartos, 253 quinti digiti, 253 petro-pharyngcus, 299 pharyngo-mastoidcus, 299 plantaris, 256 platysma myoides, 278, 288 popliteus, 256 poplitvus minor, 256 pronator radii quadratics, 218 radii teres, 213 psoas magnus, 240 •parvus, 242 pterj’goid external, 286 internal, 286 plcrygoidcies proprius, 287 pterygo-pharyngeus externus, 299 ptcrygo-spinosus, 287 pyramidalis abdominis, 331 pyramidalis nasi, 276 pyriformis, 235 quadratus l'emoris, 236 lumborum, 332 nienti, 280 quadriceps extensor cruris, 242 radio-carpus, 218 recti of eye, 281 rectus abdominis, 330, 674, 679 capitis anticus major, 303 capitis anticus minor, 304 capitis lateralis, 304 capitis posticus major, 313 capitis posticus minor, 313 femoris, 242 rectus lateralis, 346 retrahens auriculam, 271 rhombo-atloideus, 307 rhomboideus major, 193 minor, 193 rhomboideus occipitalis, 194 risorius, 278 rota tores dorsi, 311 sacci lachrymalis, 273 sacro-coccygeus anticus, 341 posticus, 310 sacro-lumbalis, 309 salpingo-pharyngeus, 301 sartorius, 242, 691, 693 scalenus anticus, 302 medius, 302 posticus, 303 semimembranosus, 238 semispinalis capitis, 310 semispinalis colli, 311 dorsi, 312 semitendinosus, 238 serratus magnus, 260, 674 posticus inferior, 305 posticus superior, 305 soleus, 254 spheno-pharyngcus, 299INDEX TO VOLUME I. 730 Muscles—continual. sphincter ani, external or superficial, 339 internal or circular, 339 oris, 277 vagina*, 343 spinalis ccrvicis, 310 spinalis ilorsi, 310 splenitis capitis, 307 colli, 307 sternalis, 197 sterno-eleido-mastoid, 2S9, 671 sterno-hyoid, 290 sterno-mastoid, 290 stemo-scapular, 200 sterno-thyroid, 291 stylo-glossus, 296 * stylo-hyoid, 293 stylo-hyoidcus alter, 293 stylo-pliaryngeus, 299 ■subanconcus, 211 subclavius, 198 subcostal, 315 suberureus, 245 subscapularis, 205 subscapido-capsularis, 207 spinator radii brevis, 221 longus, 218, 685 supraclavicularis, 290 supracostalis, 315 supraspinatus, 204 ■syndcsmo-pharyngcus, 299 temporal, 285 tensor palati, 301 tarsi, 273 vaginas femoris, 235, 690 tensor of capsule of ankle, 260 plicae alaris, 204 trochlccc, 283 teres major, 204, 674, 685 minor, 204, 685 tliyro-hyoid, 291 tibialis anticus, 250 posticus, 259 sccundus, 260 tibio-fascialis anticus, 250 traclielo-mastoid, 310 tran.sversalis abdominis, 32S cervicis, 310 transverso-spinales, 310 transversus pedis, 264 perinei, 341, 343 transversus menti, 280 nuchce, 290 orbitce, 283 perinei profundus, 342, 344 trapezius, 190, 682 triangularis menti, 2S0 sterni, 315 triceps extensor cubiti, 216, 686 triticco-glossus, 296 trochlearis, 282 vdnaris quinti, 221 vastus externus, 243 Muscles—continued. vastus interims, 244 Wilson's, 342 zygomaticus major, 278 minor, 278 Muscles of abdomen, 323 action of, 332 anal, 339 of arm, upper, 207 action of, 211 auricular, 271 of back, 305 action of, 313 cranio-vertebral, short posterior, 31 dorso-lateral (morpliol.), 188, 345 epicranial, 270 action of, 271 of eyelids and eyebrows, 273 action of, 275 femoral, anterior, 240 action of, 245 internal, 246 action of, 248 posterior, 238 action of, 240 of foot, 261 action of, 266 of forearm, 213 action of, 229 genito-urinary, 341, 343 hamstring, 238 of hand, 225, 269 action of, 230 varieties of, 228 of head and neck, 270 of hip, 232 action of, 237 of hyoid bone, 290 action of, 294 hypaxial (morpliol.), iSS, 344 infrahyoid, 290 lateral (morpliol.), 345 of leg, anterior, 250 external, 252 posterior, 253 action of, 266 of limb, lower, 230, 268 upper, 190, 268 of limbs, morphology of, 266 table of homologies of, 268 of little finger, 227 of lips and mouth, 277 action of, 280 of mastication, 285 action of, 287 of neck, anterior, 288 action of, 294 lateral and pervertebral, 302 action of, 304 of nose, 275 action of, 277 of orbit, 281 action of, 301 of palate, 300 action of, 301731 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Muscles—continued. of perineum, 339 action of, 343 of pharynx, 297 action of, 301 prevertebral, 303 pronators and flexors, 213, 687 action of, 229 of shoulder, 202 action of, 207 supinators and extensors, 218 action of, 229 suprahyoid, 292 of thigh, 238 of thorax, 314 action of, 320 of thumb, 225 action of, 230 of tongue, 294 action of, 296 of trunk and upper limb, anterior, 196 posterior, 190 action of, 201 subvertebral (morphol.), 344 ventro-lateral (morphol.), 18S, 266, 345 Muscnlo-cutaneous nerve of arm, 609 of leg, 644 Musculo-phrenic artery, 400 Musculo-spiral nerve, 614, 686 Mylo-glossus a mill, the jaw ; y\Hacra, the tongue) muscle, 296 Mylo-hyoid artery, 379 groove, 56 muscle, 293 nerve, 567 ridge, 56 Myoides. Sec Platysma. Myology (/n~s, a muscle ; Aoyoy, dis- course), 186 Myotome (ju.Cs, a muscle; re/xvai, I di- vide), 188 Myrtiform (jxvprov, a myrtle-berry ; for- ma, shape) fossa, 48 Nares (nostrils), posterior, 62, 671 Nasal (nasws, the nose) aperture, anterior, 59, 668 arteries, 372, 381, 3S3, 385 bone, 54, 76 ossification of, 73 crest, 49, 61 duct, 48, 54, 60, 670 fossae, or cavities, 67 ganglion, 562 index, 83 nerves. See Nerves. notch, of frontal bone, 37 of upper jaw, 48 point, 80 process, 47, 49 spine of frontal bone, 37 Nasal—continued. spine of palate bone, 51 of upper jaw, 48, 59, 668 veins, 494 Nasion, 80 Naso-palatine nerve, 563 Navicular (navicula, a small ship or boat) bone of foot, 121 articulations of, 17S, 181 homology of, 134 ossification of, 125 fossa, 45 Neck, of a bone, 8 Neck, fascia; of, 288 muscles, anterior, 289 lateral and prevertebral, 302 superficial anatomy of, 671 veins of, 493 Nelaton’s line, 690 Nerves, Descriptive Anatomy of, 542 abdominal, of ilio-hypogastric, 623 abducent, 570 accessory, spinal, 586 obturator, 626 alveolar, 560 • Arnold’s, 582 articular of ankle-joint, 640, 644 of elbow-joint, 609, 610, 613 hip-joint, 625, 628, 633 knee, 625, 628, 629, 639, 643 shoulder-joint, 605, 607 temporo-maxillary joint, 566 wrist, 612, 613, 617 auditory, 575 auricular, anterior, 566 great, 599, 673 posterior, 572 of pneumo-gastric, 582 of small occipital, 600 auriculo-temporal, 566 buccal of facial, 573 of inferior maxillary, 566 cardiac, lower, 656 middle, 656 of pneumo-gastric, 5S3 upper, 654 carotid of glosso-pharyngeal, 57S sympathetic, 653 cavernous of penis, 665 cerebro-spinal, 542 cervical, divisions of, anterior, 597 posterior, 593 second, 597 superficial, 599, 673 cervico-facial, 573 chorda tympani, 567, 572 ciliary, long, 557 short, 558 circumflex, 607, 685 coccygeal, divisions of, anterior, 631 posterior, 596 communicantes noni, 589, 600 of Cotunnius, 563 crural, anterior, 626 of genito-crural, 623INDEX TO VOLUME I. 732 Nek vi;s—con t in ncd. cutaneous, of abdomen, 620 calcaneo-plantar, 640 external, of arm, 609 of lumbar plexus, 624 museulo-spiral, 615 gluteal, 635 internal, of arm, 607 small, 609 museulo-spiral, 614 of thigh, 627 lateral, 619, 620, 621 middle, of thigh, 627 of obturator, 626 palmar, of median, 613 of ulnar, 610 perforating, 636 posterior, of thigh, 635 of small sciatic, 635, 636 of thorax, anterior, 620 lateral, 619 dental, superior, 560 inferior, 567 lesser inferior, 567 descendens noni, 589 diaphragmatic, 600, 662 digastric, 573 digital, in hand, of median, 613 of radial, 616 of ulnar, 612 in foot, external plantar, 642 internal plantar, 641 musculo-cutaneous, 644 dorsal, divisions of, anterior, 617 posterior, 59 S first, 617 of clitoris, 63S of hand, 610 last, 620 of penis, 637 dorsi-lumbar, 621 ethmoidal, posterior, SS7 facial, 570, 669 of infraorbital, 561 of-great auricular, 599 of femoral artery, 627 of femur, 627 of fibula, 640 fibular communicating, 643 frontal, 556 gastric, 586 genital, 623 genito-crural, 623 glosso-pliaryngeal, 575 gluteal, inferior, 635 superior, 635 gustatory, 567 hasmorrhoidal, inferior, 636 superior, 665 of fourth sacral, 631 of humerus, 609 hypogastric, 623 hypoglossal, 587, 672 iliac, 622 ilio-hypogastric, 622 Nerves—continued. ilio-inguinal, 623 incisor, 567 inframaxillary, 573 infraorbital, 559, 669 of facial, 573, 669 infratrochlear, 557 intercostal, first, 619 lower or abdominal, 620 upper or pectoral, 619 intercosto-humeral, 619 interosseous, of arm, anterior, 613 posterior, 616, 686 of foot, 645 Jacobson’s, 577 labial, of inferior dental, 567 of infraorbital, 561 lachrymal, 555 laryngeal, external, 582 inferior, 583 internal, 583 recurrent, 583 superior, 582 lingual, of fifth, 567, 671 glosso-pharyngeal, 578 vagus, 582 lumbar, divisions of, posterior, 596 anterior, 621 fifth, 630 lumbo-inguinal, 623 lumbo-sacral, 630 malar, of facial, 573 of orbital, 560 masseteric, 565 mastoid, 599 maxillary, inferior, 564 superior, 559 median, 612, 685, 687 meningeal, of vagus, 582 mental, 567 musculo-cutaneous of arm, 609 leg, 644 museulo-spiral, 614, 686 mylo-hyoid, 567 nasal, 556 anterior or superficial, 557 of infraorbital, 561 inferior, 562 of superior dental, 561 upper, 562 of Vidian, 563 naso-palatine, 563 obturator, 625 accessory, 626 occipital, of facial, 572 great, 595, 668 small, S99 third, 595 oculomotor, 550 external, 570 oeulo-nasal, 556 cesophageal, 585 olfactory, 549 ophthalmic, 555 optic, 549733 INDEX TO VOLUME I. N erves—continued. orbital, 560 palatine, 562 palmar, of median, 613 of ulnar, 610 palpebral, 561 parotid, 566 pars intermedia, 570 patellar, of int. saphenous, 631 pathetic, 552 perineal, 636 of fourth sacral, 631 peroneal, 642 communicating, 643 petrosal, deep, large, 564, 653 small, 578, 653 superficial, external, 572, 656 large, 564, 572 small, 569, 577 pharyngeal of pneumo-gastric, 5S2 of glosso-pharyngeal, 578 of spheno-palatineganglion, 564 of sympathetic, 654 phrenic, 600, 605, 606 plantar, 641 pneumo-gastric, 578 popliteal, external, 642, 693 internal, 639, 693 portio dura, 570 intermedia, 570 mollis, 575 pterygoid, external, 566 internal, 566 pudendal, inferior, 635 pudic, 636 pulmonary, of pneumo-gastric, radial, 615, 686 of radius, 613 recurrent, of inferior maxillary, 565 of ophthalmic, 555 of superior maxillary, 559 of vagus, 582, 583 renal, 668 sacral, divisions of, anterior, 630 posterior, <tg6 fifth, 631 sacral, fourth, 631 saphenous, internal, or long, 629 external, or short, 640 sciatic, great, 638, 691, 692 small, 635, 692 scrotal, long, 636 spermatic, external, 623 sphcno-ctlimoidal, 557 spinal. Sec Nerves, SriXAL. accessory, 586, 673 splanchnic, great, 657 small, 659 smallest, 659 stylo-hyoid, 573 suboccipital, 593, 597 subscapular, 606 supraacromial, 600 supraclavicular, 600 supramaxillary, 573 Nerves—coni inued. supraorbital, 556, 66S suprascapular, 605, 606 suprasternal, 600 supratrochlear 556, 668 temporal, deep, 565 of facial, 573 of orbital, 560 superficial, 567 temporo-facial, 573 malar, 560 thoracic, anterior, 606 posterior, 605, 606 thyroid, 656 of tibia, 640 tibial, anterior, 644 communicating, 640 posterior, 640 tonsillitic, 578 trifacial or trigeminal, 553 trochlear, 552 tympanic, 577 of ulna, 613 ulnar, 610, 686 collateral,- 614 vagus, 578 Vidian, 563 of Wrisberg, 609 Nerves, Cranial, classification of, 542 connection with encephalon, 542 general distribution of, 548 first pair, or olfactory, 549 second pair, or optic, 550 third pair, 550 fourth pair, 552 fifth pair, 553 ophthalmic, 555 superior maxillary, 559 inferior maxillary, 564 sixth pair, 570 seventh pair, 570 eighth pair, 575 ninth pair, 575 tenth pair, 578 eleventh pair, 586 twelfth pair, 587 Nerves, Spinal, 590 divisions of, anterior, 597 posterior, 593 origins of, 591, 684 roots of, 591 Nerves, Sympathetic, Descriptive Anatomy of, 650 ganglia of. See Ganglion. gangliated cords of, 650 cervical part, 651 lumbar part, 660 sacral part, 660 thoracic part, 657 plexuses of. See Plexuses. Nerves of abdomen, muscular, 648 of arm, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 211, 649 of back, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 648731 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Nerves—contin ued. of bladder, 665 of buttock, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 649 of eyelids and eyebrows, cutaneous, 646 of face, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 280, 647 of foot, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 265, 649, 650 of forearm, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 218, 224 of band, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 229, 649 of bead, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 647 of lieart, 583, 654, 656, 661 of hip, muscular, 237, 649 of larynx, 582, 648 of leg, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 252, 253, 260, 649, 650 of limb, lower, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 649 upper, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 649 of lips, cutaneous, 646 of lungs, 585 of muscles of mastication, 287, 647 of muscles between trunk and upper limb, 196, 200, 64S of neck, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 288, 290, 292, 294, 648 of nose, cutaneous, 648 of oesophagus, 585 of orbit, muscular, 283, 647 of palate, muscular, 301, 64S of penis, 646, 665 of perineum, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 342, 648 of pharynx, 299, 648 of scrotum, 646 of shoulder, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 207, 649 of thigh, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 240, 245, 24S, 649 of thorax, muscular, 320, 648 of tongue, 296, 648 of trunk, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 648 of uterus, 666 of vagina, 666 of vas deferens, 665 of vesicula seminal is, 665 Nervi molles, 655 sinu-vertebrales, 653 Ncrvus ischiadicus major, 638 ischiadicus minor, 635 renalis posterior, 659 splanchnicus supremus, 659 vagus (wandering nerve), 578 Neural (vtvpov, a nerve), arches of ver- tebra, 24 N eural—con tinu ed. canal, 10 ca vity, of body, 3 septum, 344 spines of vertebra?, 10 Neuro-central suture, 20 Neurology (vevpoi/, a nerve ; A6yos, discourse), 542 Nipple, position of, 674 Nose, arteries of, 372, 381, 383 cavities or fossa? of, 67 meatus of, 47, 67 muscles of, 275 septum of, 67 veins of, 494, 498 Notch of bone, 9 clavicular, 26 cotyloid, 107 ethmoidal, 36 interclavicular, 26 intercondylar, 114 jugular, 34 lachrymal, 49 nasal, of frontal bone, 37 of upper jaw, 48 scapular, 87 sciatic, 105, 107 sigmoid, 56 spheno-palatine, 52 supraorbital, 36, 59, 60, 667 suprascapular, 88 suprasternal, 27, 671 Notches of vertebra;, 10 Nuclei of cranial nerves, 544 OBELIOX (ofieAaia frcufdi, the sagittal suture), 80 Oblique inguinal hernia, 699 Obliquus. Sec Muscles. Obturator (obturo, I stop up) artery, 454 relation to hernia, 455 fascia, 336 foramen, 104, 107 membrane or ligament, 167 muscles, 235, 237 nerve, 625 accessory, 626 vein, 522 Occipital (occiput, the back of the head), artery, 372, 668, 672 bone, 32 articulations of, 32, 143 ossification of, 69 crest, external and internal, 33, 34 emissary vein, 508 foramen, 32, 66 fossa;, 33 groove, 40, 64 lymphatics, 541 nerve. Sec Nerves. point, 81 protuberances, 33, 667 sinus, 503, 505 veins, 498 of diploe, 507735 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Occipitalis. Sec Muscles. Occipito-atlantal ligaments, 144 Occipito-axial ligaments, 144 Occipito-frontal aponeurosis, 270 Occipito-frontalis muscle, 270 Occipito-inastoid suture, 57 Occipito-parietal suture, 57 Occipito-pharyngcus muscle, 299 Oculo-motor nerve, 550 external, 570 Oculo-nasal nerve, 556 Odontoid (oSdes, gen. 686vtos, a tooth; e?5os, shape) ligaments, 144 process of the axis, 12, 21, 23 (Esophagus, 671, 682 (Esophageal arteries, 396, 431, 436 nerves and plexus, 585 (Esophagus, foramen for, in diaphragm, 319 lymphatics of, 537 Olecranon (uAevij, the elbow ; icpdi/os, a helmet), 91, 686 fossa of, 90 groove, 47, 66 Olfactory nerves, 549 Olivary eminence, 42, 66 Omo-hyoid (vjuos, the shoulder; hyoicl bone) muscle, 292, 672, 673 Ophryon (otppvs, eyebrow), 80 Ophthalmic (otpdaA/xot, an eye) artery, 382 ganglion, 557 nerve, 555 veins, 506 Opisthion (dwlcrdios, hinder), 81 Opisthotic {omcjBcv, behind ; o3r, gen. inis, the ear) portion of temporal bone, 71 Opponens. Sec Muscles. Optic foramen, 45, 60, 66 nerve or tract, 550 Obicular ligament, 155 Obicularis. Sec Muscles. Orbital arch, 36 artery, 377 canals, internal, 37, 47, 60, 66 index, 83 nerve, 560 plate of ethmoid bone, 46 frontal bone, 36, 54, 66 process of palate bone, 50, 51 vein, 496 Orbitosphenoid, 71, 75 Orbits (orhita., a circle), 59 fascia? of, 284 muscles of, 281 nerves passing into, 552 Organs and textures, 1 Origin of muscles, 187 of cranial nerves, 544 Orthognatlious (opdos, upright: yvaSos, a jaw) skulls, 83 Os calcis, 119 articulations of, 178 homology of, 134 Os calcis—continued. ossilication of, 135 eentrale, 133 coxre (the bone of the hip), 104 innominatum, 104 lingua?, 57 magnum, 86, 134 ossification of, 102 planum, 56 pubis, 106 homology of, 129, 134 ossification of, 123 unguis, 54 Ossa suprasternalia (bones above the sternum), 27 Ossa suturarum, 58 Ossa triquetra (triangular bones), 5S Ossification, 7 of bones of head, 68 of pelvis, and lower limb, 123 of upper limb, 99 of ribs and sternum, 30 of vertebra*, 20 Osteology (ha-riov, a bone ; A070O, 7 Otic (ois. wt6s, .the ear) ganglion, 568 Ovarian artery, 444 plexus, 517 veins, 517 Pacchionian fosste, 35, 65 Palate bone, 50, 76 ossification of, 73 hard, 49, 50, 62 muscles of soft, 300 plate of palate bone, 50, 67 superior maxilla, 49 soft, 300 Palatine arteries, 371, 376, 380 canal, anterior, 49, 62 posterior, 48, 51, 62, 67e nerves, 562 spine, 51 veins, 496, 498 Palato-glossus muscle, 300 Palato-phaiyngeus muscle, 3or Palm, lines of, 689 Palmar arches, 421, 427, 689 fascia, 225, 689 ligaments, carpal, 160 carpo-metacarpal, 162 metacarpal, 161 nerves, of median, 613 of ulna, 610, 612 Palmaris. See Muscles. Palpebral arteries, 383 fissure, 669 nerves, 556, 561 vein, 494, 496 Pampiniform (pampinus, a tendril; forma, shape), plexus, 517 Pancreas, lymphatics of, 534 situation of, 680, 68473G INDEX TO VOLUME I. Pancreatic arteries, 438 plexus, 664 veins, 526 Pancreaticoduodenal arteries, 436, 439 plexus, 663 Panniculus adiposus, 1S9 carnosus, 189, 288 Papilla laclirymalis, 669 Par vagum, 578 Parapophysis (a-apd, beside; apophysis), 23 Parietal artery, 373 bone, 34, 75 ossification of, 69 eminence, 34,69 emissary vein, 50S fossa, 35 foramen, 34 lymphatic glands, 539 Parieto-mastoid suture, 58 Parieto-occipital fissure, position, 668 Parotid fascia, 285, 289 gland, 669 nerves, 566 veins, 494, 496 Tars intermedia, 570 Par umbilical vein, 526 Patella (a dish or plate), 115, 693 ligament of, 173 lateral, 174 movement of, on femur, 176 ossification of, 124 Patellar plexus, 630 Pathetic nerve, 552 Pectineus muscle, 246 Pectoral region, fascia of, 196 lymphatic glands, 537 ridge, 90 Pectoralis major muscle, 196, 673 minor, 197, 674 Pedicles of vertebrae, 9 Pelvic fascia, 336 girdle, 129 index, in plexus, 665 Pelvic and thoracic limbs, homologous bones in, 134 Pelvis (a basin), 104, 108 articulations of, 164 axis of, 109 brim or inlet, of, 108 compared with shoulder, 129 differences in the sexes, 110 dimensions of, ill distinctive characters of, in man, in. 135 fascia; of, 336 in child, 124 lower or true, 108 lymphatics of, 531 outlet of, 108 position of, 109 upper or false, 108 veins of, 522 Penis, dorsal artery of, 458 nerve of, 637 vein of, 522 lymphatics of, 531 nerves of, 646, 648, 665 suspensory ligament of, 322 Perforans muscle of fingers, 215 of toes, 257 Perforating arteries. See Akteuy. cutaneous nerve, 636 Perforates muscle of fingers, 215 of toes, 262 Pericardial arteries, 400, 431 Perimysium (irept, around ; pus, a muscle), 186 Perineum (irepl, about; ralw, 1 am situated), fascia of, 334 muscles of, 339 in female, 343 nerves of, cutaneous. 646 muscular, 64S superficial and topographical ana- tomy of, 704 Perineal artery, superficial, 457, 459 transverse, 457 fascia, 334 nerve, 636 of fourth sacral, 631 Periotic (nepl, about; 08s, cords, the ear) portion of temporal bone, 70, 75 Periosteum (irepi about; oariov, a bone), 7 Peroneal (irepdioj, the pin of a buckle, the fibula) arteries, 479, 480 bone, 117 nerve, 642 veins, 521 Peroneus. See Muscles. Pes anserinus, 571 Petro-mastoid portion of temporal bone, 70, 75 Petro-pharyngeus muscle, 299 Petrosquamo us sin us, 505 Petrosal nerves. See. NeuVes. sinuses, 505 Petrous (irerpa, a rock) ganglion, 576 portionofthetemporalbone, 38,40, 70 Phalanges (<pdAay£, a rank of soldiers) of fingers, 98 articulations of, 163 cutaneous ligament of, 225 ossification of, 102 of toes, 123 articulation of, 184 ossification of, 125 Pharyngeal artery, 375 nerves. See N euves. plexus, 578, 582 veins, 499 Pharyngo-mastoideus muscle, 299 Pharynx (<papuyl), 671, muscles of, 297 nerves of, 648 Phrenic (<ppV, the diaphragm) artery, inferior, 445 superior, 400 ganglion, 602, 662INDEX TO VOLUME I. 737 Phrenic—continued. nerve, 600 plexus, 662 veins, 518 Pia mater, lymphatics of, 541 Pillars of abdominal ring, 325 fauces, 300 Pisiform (visum, a pea ; forma, shape) hone, 96, 133, 681 articulation of, 160 ossification of, 102 Pituitary (pituita, phlegm or mucus) fossa, 42 Pivot-joint, 138 Plagiocephaly (irAdyws, oblique ; KetpaA-fi, head), 84 Plane, mesial, 5 Plantar (planta, the sole of the foot) ar- teries. See Artery. fascia, 260 muscles, 262 nerves, 641 Plantaris muscle, 256 Plate, cribriform, 46, 47 orbital of frontal bone, 36, 64 of ethmoid, 46 palate, of palate bone, 50, 67 of superior maxilla, 49 pterygoid, internal and external, 45, 7i tympanic, 40, 71 vertical of ethmoid, 45, 46, 72, 75 of palate bone, 50 Platyrhine (irAarus, broad; pis, pivos, nose) skulls, 83 Platysma myoides (wAdnnrpa, a plate, from irAaTvvw, I extend ; pvs, a muscle ; e78or, shape), 278, 288 Pleura, extent of, 675, 682 Plexus, subperitoneal arterial, 44S subpleural mediastinal, 400 Plexuses of nerves, aortic, 664 brachial, 603, 672 cardiac, 661 carotid, 653 cavernous, 653 cervical, 598 posterior, 595 coccygeal, 631 cceliac, 663 coronary, of heart, 661 of stomach, 663 cystic, 663 dental inferior, 567 superior, 561 diaphragmatic, 662 epigastric, 662 ganglioformis, 579 gangliosus, 665 gastro-epiploic, 663, 664 liaemorrhoidal, 665 hepatic, 663 hypogastric, 664 inferior, 665 infraorbital, 561 VOL. 1. Plexuses—continued. intermesenteric, 664 lumbar, 621 mesenteric, inferior, 664 superior, 664 cesophageal, 585 pancreatic, 664 pancrcatico-duodenal, 663 patellar, 630 pelvic, 665 pharyngeal, 578, 582 phrenic, 662 prevertebral, 651 prostatic, 665 pulmonary, 585 pyloric, 663 renal, 663 sacral, 631 solar, 662 spermatic, 663 splenic, 663 suprarenal, 662 tympanic. 577 vaginal, 666 vesical, 665 Plexuses of veins, basilar, 505 choroid, 501 luemorrhoidal, 524 ovarian, 517 pampiniform, 517 prostatic, 524 ' pterygoid, 496 spermatic, 517 uterine, 524 vaginal, 524 vesical, 524 Plica semilunaris, 669 Pneumo-gastric (nvevpcov, the lung yaa-riip, the stomach) nerve, 578 Point, alveolar, 80 auricular, 81 nasal, 80 occipital, 81 spinal, or subnasal, So supraorbital, 80 Pomum Adami, 671 Popliteal artery, 474, 693, 695 line, 116 lymphatic glands, 529, 694 nerves. Sec Nerves. space, 240 surface, of femur, 114 vein, 521 Poplitous. See Muscles. Portal vein, 524 Portio dura, 570 mollis, 575 Postaxial (post, behind ; axis) bofdefs of limbs, 131 Postglenoid process, 39 Postsphenoid, 71 Poupart’s ligament, 324, 691 l’reaortic plexus, Preaxial (pree, before ; axis) borders of limbs, 131 S 11738 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Premaxillary bone, 72, 76 Presphenoid, 71, 75 Presternum (pro;, before ; sternum), 26 Prevcrtebral fascia, 289 muscles of neck, 303 plexuses, 651, 661 Process of bone, 8 acromion, 87 alveolar, of superior maxilla, 47, 49 angular, of frontal bone, 36 auditory, external, 40 basilar, 32, 34 elinoid, anterior, 43 middle, 45 posterior, 43 coracoid, 88, 100, 684 coronoid of lower jaw, 56, 61 of ulna, 91 ensiform, 27 ethmoidal, of inferior turbinate bone, 55 falciform, 166 hamular, of lachrymal bone, 54 of sphenoid bone, 45, 670 jugular, of occipital bone, 34 lachrymal, of inferior turbinate bone, 55' malar, of upper jaw, 47, 49 mastoid, 39, 61, 64, 71, 666 maxillary, of inferior turbinate bone, 55 of palate bone, 51 nasal, of upper jaw, 47, 49 odontoid, 12, 21, 23 orbital, of palate bone, 50, 51 palate, of upper jaw, 47, 49 postglenoid, 39 pterygoid, 42, 44 pyramidal, 50, 51 sphenoidal, 50, 52 spinous, of sphenoid bone, 44 of fibula, 117 of radius, 94, 687 styloid, of temporal bone, 40,63,71,76 of ulna, 92, 687 supracondylar, 91, 412, 414 turbinate, superior and inferior, 47 uncinate, of ethmoid bone, 46 vaginal, of sphenoid, 45 of temporal bone, 40, 63 zygomatic, 39 Processes, accessory, of lumbar verte- bra?, 14, 24 capitular, of dorsal vertebra, 23 mammillary, of lumbar vertebra, 15. 24 tubercular, of dorsal vertebrae, 23 of vertebra, articular, 10, n, 12, 13, 15 spinous, 10, 11,12,13,14,15,681 transverse, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 serial relations of, 23 Processus cochleariformis (spoon-shaped process), 41 Profunda arteries. See Artery. Prognathous (7rpS, forward ; yvdBos, a jaw) skulls, 83 Promontory of sacrum, 15 Pronation (promts, having the face down- ward), 156, 279 Pronator and flexor muscles, 213, 687 Pronator. Sec Muscles. Prootic (irfnf, before ; oHs, gen. wroT, the ear) centre, 71 Prostate, situation of, 707 Prostatic plexus (nerves), 665 (veins), 524 Protuberance, occipital, external, 33, 667 internal, 33 Psoas (1poa, the loin) muscles, 240, 242 Pterion (irrepov a wing), 81 Pterygoid (irrepv^, a wing ; €?5os shape) arteries, 380 bones, 71, 76 canal, 45 fossa, 45, 63 muscles, 286 nerves, 556 notch, 45 plates, 45, 71 plexus, 496 process, 42, 44 Pierygoideas proprius muscle, 287 Pterygo-maxillary fissure, 62 ligament, 280, 671 Ptcrygo-palatine artery, 381 canal, 45, 52, 62 Ptcrygo-pliaryngcus cxtcrnus, 299 Ptcrygo-sinnosus muscle, 287 Ptcrygo-spinous ligament, 287 Pubes, 678 Pubic arteries, 454, 464 articulation, 167 bone. See Os Pubis, portion of fascia lata, 232 region, 678 vein, 522 Pubo-femoral ligament, 170 Pudendal nerve, inferior, 635 Pudic arteries. See Artery. nerve, 636 veins, 520, 522 Pulmonary artery, 350, 677 cartilage, 677 nerves and plexuses, 585 veins, 350 Punctum lachrymale, 669 Pyloric artery, 436 plexus, 663 vein, 526 Pylorus, situation of, 680, 682 Pyramidal bone, 95, 688 homology of, 133, 134 ossification of, 102 process of palate bone, 51 Pyramidalis. See Muscles. Pyriformis muscle, 235 Quadrates. Sec Muscles. Quadriceps extensor muscle, 242739 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Radial artery, 423, 688 varieties of, 426 nerve, 615, 686 vein, 508, 510 Radio-carpal articulation, 158 Radio-carpus muscle, 218 Radio-ulnar articulations, 155 Radius (a ray, or the spoke of a wheel), 93, 687 homology of, 131, 134 movement of on ulna, 156 nerve of, 613 ossification of, 101 Ramus (a branch ; pi. rami) of ischium, 106 of lower jaw, 56 of pubic bone, 106 eervicalis princeps (art.), 373 descendens noni (nerve), 589 Rami communicantes noni (nerve), 600 Ranine (rana, a frog, also a swelling under the tongue) artery, 369, 670 vein, 500, 670 Receptaculum oliyli, 527 Recto-vesical fascia, 336, 707 Rectum, ligament of, 338 ■ lymphatics of, 532 Rectus. See Muscles. Recurrent arteries. See Artery. nerves. Sea Nerves. Region, epigastric, 678 gluteal, 690 hyo-mental, 671 hyo-sternal, 671 hypochondriac, 678 hypogastric, 67S iliac, 678 infrahyoid, 671 inguinal, 678 lumbar, 678 pubic, 678 submaxillary, 671 suprahyoid, 671 umbilical, 678 Renal (ren, the kidney) artery, 443 ganglia, 663 plexus, 663 vein, 518 Respiration, movements of, 320 Retinacula (restraining bands) of tendons, 1S9 Retrahens aurieulam muscle, 271 Rhomboid (po/x^os, a rhomb ; fiSos, shape) ligament, 152 Rhomboideus. See Muscles. Ribs, 27, 674, 682 articulations of, 146 cartilages of, 29 ossification of, 30 movements of, 148 Ridge of bone, 8 gluteal, 114 mylo-hyoid, 56 pectoral, 89 Ridge—continued. superciliary, 36, 667 Ridges, supracondylar, 90, 685 Rinra glottidis, 671 Ring, abdominal, external or superficial, 325, 679, 696 internal or deep, 333, 679, 696 crural or femoral, 333, 603 Risorius (video, I laugh) muscle, 278 Rolando, furrow of, position, 668 Rostrum (a beak) of sphenoid bone, 43 Rotation, 139 Rotatores dorsi, 311 Rotula (dim. of rota, a wheel), 115 Sac, lachrymal, 670 Sacral arteries, middle, 448 lateral, 461 canal, 17 cornua, 15 foramina, 15, 16 lymphatic glands, 531 nerves, divisions of, anterior, 630 posterior, 596 fourth and fifth, 631 plexus, 631 veins, lateral, 522 middle, 19 Sacro-coccygeal articulation, 165 Sacro-coccygcus posticus muscle, 310 Sacro-iliac articulation, 166 Sacro-lumbalis muscle, 309 Sacro-sciatic foramina, 167 ligaments, 166 Sacro-vertebral angle, 18 articulation, 164 Sacrum (os sacrum), 9, 15 articulations of, 164 osssification of, 21 varieties of, 17 Sagittal (saejitta, an arrow) suture, 57 Salpingo-pharyngeus(o-a\7ri7|, a trumpet <pdpuy{, the pharynx) muscle, 301 Saphenous (aa<pr\vi]s, manifest) nerves. See Nerves. opening, 231, 691 veins. S'ceVEiKs. Sartorius (sartor, a tailor) muscle, 242, 691, 693 Scalene tubercle, 29 Scalenus (oKa\r\v6s, with unequal sides) muscles, 302 Scalp, lymphatics of, 541 Scaphocephaly (o-/cd<)>7), a boat ; KeipaX-q, head), 84 Scaphoid (cr/cdcpr), a skiff or boat; ei5oj, shape) bone of foot, 121 bone of hand, 95, 688 homology of, 133, 134 Scapula, 86, 681 compared with ilium, 129, 135INDEX TO VOLUME I. 740 Scapula—continued. ligaments of, 153 ossification of, 97 Scapular artery, dorsal, 406 posterior, 398 notch, 87 Scapulo-clavicular articulation, 152 Scarpa’s foramina, 49 triangle, 242, 467, 691 Schindylesis (crxirSuAcw, I split), 138 Sciatic (Icrxloi', the hip) artery, 459, 691 nerve, great, 638, 691, 692 small, 635, 692 notches, 105, 107 veins, 522 Sclerotome (mcA-ripis, hard ; te/xvu, I cut), 188 Scrotal hernia, 699 nerves, long, 636 Scrotum (a hide), lymphatics of, 531 nerves of, 646 Segmentation of muscles, 188 Segmented character of body, 3 Segments, vertebral, 5 Sella Turcica (Turkish saddle), 42, 66 Semilunar bone, 95 homology of, 133, 134 bone, ossification of, 102 fascia, 208, 687 fibro-eartilagos of knee, 173 ganglia of sympathetic, 662 Semimembranosus muscle, 238 Semispinalis muscle, 313 Semitendinosus muscle, 238 Sense capsules or cavities, 78 Septa, neural, haemal, and lateral, 344 intermuscular, of arm, 207, 685, 686 foot, 261 forearm, 212 leg, 249 thigh, 232 Septum (a partition, from scpio, I hedge in), crural, 703 nasi, 67 Serial homolog)’, 5 Serrated (serra, a saw) suture, 137 Serratus. Sec Muscles. Sesamoid (a-naafiov, a kind of small grain; dSos, shape) bones, 9, 187 of hand, 99, 163 radial, 134 of foot, 123, 184 ulnar, 133 Sexual differences in skull, 79 in femur, 114 in pelvis, 110 in sacrum, 17 Sheath, axillary, 289 carotid, 289 crural, or femoral, 232, 702 of rectus muscle, 327 Shin-bone, 115 Shoulder, articulation of, 153 compared with pelvis, 129 Shoulder—continued. fascia of, 202 ligaments of, 153 muscles of, 202 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 207, 649 superficial anatomy of, 684 Sigmoid (C, a form of the letter aiy/xa, sigmci; eiSos, shape) artery, 441 cavity, of radius, 93 cavities of ulna, 90 notch, lower jaw, 56 Sinus (a hollow) of aorta, 353 basilar, 505 of bone, 8 cavernous, 503 nerves in, 552 circular, 504 coronary, of heart, 489 frontal, 37, 67, 68, 70 interoavernous, 505 of jugular vein, 499 lateral, 503, 505, 668 longitudinal, inferior, 505 longitudinal, superior, 505, 668 maxillary, 50, 67, 68 occipital, 503, 505 pedis, 179 petrosal, inferior, 499, 505 superior, 505 ipetro-squavious, 505 of portal vein, 525 straight, 503 tentorii, 503 transverse, 505 Sinuses, air, in bones of head, 67 ethmoidal, 46, 68 frontal, 37, 67, 68, 70 sphenoidal, 42, 68 of Valsalva, 353 venous, of cranium, 502 Skeleton {aidAAa>, I dry), 2, 7 adapted to erect attitude, 135 Skull, anterior region of, 58 as a whole, 5 7 base of, external, 62 internal, 66 difference from animals, 74, 135 differences in from age, 79 race, 80 sex, 79 external surface, 58 forms of, 79 irregular, 84 fossae of, 66 grooves for blood-vessels in, 66 homologies of, 75 interior of, 64 lateral region of, 61 measurement of, 80 morphology of, 74 ossification of bones of, 68 superior region of, 58 sutures of, 57 vertebrate theory of, 78741 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Scemmerring’s classification of cranial nerves, 542 Solar (sol, the sun) plexus, 662 Soleus (solca, a sandal, or sole of a slioe, also a sole fisli) muscle, 254 Somatome (awya, a body; Tejuvai, I cut), 5 Spermatic artery, 444 cord, 697 fascia, 325, 69S nerve, external, 623 plexus (nerves), 663 (veins), 517 veins, 517 Sphenoid (<T<p-qv, a wedge ; elSos, shape) bone, 42, 75 ossification of, 71 Sphenoidal crest, 43 fissure, 45, 59, 66 position of nerves in, 552 process of palate bone, 50, 52 septum, 42 sinus, 68, 72 spongy bones, 43, 72 Splieno-inaxillary fissure, 60, 62 fossa, 62 Splieno-palatine artery, 381 foramen, 52, 62 ganglion, 562 notch, 52 Spheno-parietal sinus, 504 suture, 58 vein, 498 Sphcno-pharyngeus muscle, 299 Sphincter (atpiyyu, I bind. S'cc Mus- C£E,S‘ small hpina bifida, 22 Spinal accessory nerve, 586, 673 arteries. See Artkiues. furrow, 20, 681 nerves. Sec Nerves. point, 80 veins, 515. See Veins. Spinalis. Sec Muscles. Spine. Sec Vertebral Column. Spine of bone, 8. ethmoidal, 43 of ilium, anterior anu posterior, 105, 690 ischium, 105, 691 nasal, of frontal bone, 37 of palate bone, 51 of upper jaw, 48, 59, 66S neural, 10 palatine, 51 peroneal, 120 of os pubis, 106, 679, 691 scapula, 87, 681 tibia, 115 Spines, mental, 56 Spinous processes of vertebrae. Sec Processes. of sphenoid bone, 44 Splanchnic nerves. Sec Nerves. ganglion, 657 Spleen, lymphatics of, 534 situation of, 682 Splenic artery, 438 flexure of colon, 680 plexus, 663 1 vein, 526 Splenius muscle, 307 Spongy bones, ethmoidal, 47, 67 inferior, 54, 67, 73, 76, 668 sphenoidal, 43, 72 Squamosals, 75 Squamous (squama, a scale) portion of temporal bone, 38, 70, 76 suture, 58, 136 Squamo-zygomatic, 38, 70, 75 Stapes (a stirrup), 76 Stellate ligament, 146 Stenson, duct of, 669, 670 foramina of, 49 Stephanion (areepavos, a crown), 81 Sternal arteries, 400 furrow or groove, 27, 674 lymphatic glands, 535 ribs, 27 Siernalis muscle, 197 Sterno-clavicular articulation, 151 Sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle, 290, 671 Sterno-liyoid muscle, 291 Sterno-mastoid arteries, 367, 373 Sterno-thyroid muscle, 291 Sternum (<nipvov, 'the breast or chest), 26 cleft, 27 ligaments of, 148 ossification of, 31 Stomach, position and extent of, 680 lymphatics of, 534 Straight sinus, 503 Stylo-glossus muscle, 296 Stylo-hyal. 71, 76 Stylo-hyoid ligament, 57, 74, jG muscle, 293 nerve, 573 Stylo-hyoideus alter muscle, 293 Styloid (arv\os, a style or pen ; eioor, shape) process of fibula, 117 of radius, 94, 687 of temporal bone, 40, 63, 71, 76 of ulna, 92, 687 Stylo-mastoid artery, 375 foramen, 40, 64 Stylo-maxillary ligament, 150, 285, 289 Stylo-pharyngeus muscle, 299 Subacromial bursa, 155 Subanconeus muscle, 211 Subclavian artery, 387, 673 branches of, 392 surgical anatomy of, 402 varieties of, 357, 391 vein, 512, 673 Subclavius muscle, 199 Subcostal angle, 30, 674 groove, 28 muscles, 315 Subcrureus muscle, 245INDEX TO VOLUME I. 742 Subcutaneous fasciae, 189 Sublingual artery, 369 gland, 670 Submaxillary ganglion, 568 lymphatic glands, 540 region, 671 salivary gland, 671 veins, 496 Submental artery, 371 vein, 495 Subnasal point, 80 Suboccipital lymphatic glands, 539 nerve, 593, 597 Subperitoneal arterial plexus, 447 Subpubic arch, 105 fascia, 335 ligament, 167 Subscapular arteries, 39S, 406 lymphatic glands, 537 nerves, 606 vein, 512 Subscapular fossa, 86 muscle, 205 Subscapulo-capsularis muscle, 207 Sulcus of bone, 8 frontal, 37 Superciliary ridge, 36, 667 Superficial anatomy, 667 of the abdomen, 677 of the back, 681 of the chest, 673 of the head and neck, 667 of the lower limb, 690 of the perineum, 705 of the trunk, 673 of the upper limb, 684 Superficial fascia, 189 Supination (supinus, lying on the back), 156, 229 Supinator and extensor muscles, 21S Supinator. Sec Muscles. Supraacromial artery, 398 nerve, 600 Supraclavicular fossa, 85, 673 nerves, 600 Supraclavicular is muscle, 290 Supracondylar linos of femur, 114 process, 91, 412, 414 ridge of humerus, 90, 685 Suprahyoid muscles, 292 region, 671 Supramaxillary nerve, 575 Supraoccipital bone, 33, 69, 75 Supraorbital artery, 383, 668 foramen, 36, 59, 60, 667 nerve, 556, 668 notch. See Foramen, point, So vein, 494 Suprarenal capsules, lymphatics of, 532 arteries, 443, 445 plexus, 662 vein, 518 Suprascapular artery, 396 cartilage or bone, 100 Suprascapular—continued. ligament, 153 nerve, 605 notch, 88 vein, 498, 512, 672 Supraspinatus muscle, 204 Supraspinous artery, 398 fossa, S7 ligament, 142 Suprasternal artery, 39S nerve, 600 notch. 27, 671 Supratrochlear foramen, 91 nerve, 556, 668 Sural (sura, the calf) arteries, 475 Surgical anatomy of arteries, axillary, 408 brachial, 415 carotid, common, 365 dorsal of loot, 487 femoral, 473 iliac, common, 450 external, 465 lingual, 369 peroneal, 487 popliteal, 477 radial, 430 subclavian, 402 tibial, 4S7 ulnar, 429 of hernia, femoral, 702 inguinal, 696 Suspensory ligament of penis, 322 Sustentaculum tali (the support of the astragalus), 119 Sutures (sutura, a seam), 57, 137 closure of, 58 coronal, 57 forms of, 137 frontal, 38, 58, 70 fronto-parietal, 57 fronto-temporal, 81 interparietal, 57 lambdoid, 57, 667 metopic, 38 neuro-central, 20 occipito-mastoid, 57 oceipito-parietal, 57 parietal-mastoid, 58 sagittal, 57 spheno-parietal, 58 squamous, 58 temporo-parietal, 58 Sylvius, fissure of, position, 668 Symmetry of form, 5 Sympathetic nerves, 650. See Nerve, SYMPATHETIC. Symphysis (avv, with, together ; .<pvco, I grow), 138 of lower jaw, 56 pubis, 106, 167 Synarthrosis (avv, with, together; apQpov, a joint), 137 Synchondrosis (avv, with, together ; X<>v5pos, cartilage), 138INDEX TO VOLUME I. Synrlesmo-pharyncjaus {abi'Ses-fj.os, a liga- ment) muscle, 299 Synostosis (ow, with, together ; bartov, a hone), 84 Synovial bursae, or sheaths, 189 membranes and cavities, 138 of ankle, 178 of atlas, 143, 144 of axis, 143, 144 carpal, 160 costo-central, 146 costo-sternal, 147 costo-transverse, 17 6 of elbow-joint, 158 of flexors of fingers, 217 of hip, 170 of knee-j oint, 174 metacarpal, 161 metatarsal, 183 radio-carpal, 160 radio-ulnar, 155, 156 of shoulder-joint, 155 sterno-clavicular, 151 tarsal, 180, 181, 182 tarso-metatarsal, 183 of temporo-maxillary articulation, 150 tibio-fibular, 177 ' of vertebra, articulating, 141 Systemic arteries, 351 veins, 488 Tables of skull, 64 Tabular bones, 8 portion of occipital bone, 33 Talus (a die), 120. See Astragalus. Tarsal (tarsus) artery, 4S5 articulations, 178 ligaments-of eyelids, 273, 670 Tarso-metatarsal articulations, 182 Tarsus (japerbs, the upper surface of the foot), 119 homologies of, 133 ligaments of, 178 movements of, 185 ossification of, 125 Temporal (tempora, the temples) arteries. See Artery. bone, 38, 75. ossification of, 70 canal, of malar bones, 53, 60 crest, 36, 667 fascia, 285 fossa, 61 line, 34, 62, 667 lymphatics, 539 muscle, 285 nerves. Sec Nerves. veins. See Veins. Temporo-facial nerve, 573 Temporo-malar nerve, 560 Temporo-maxillary articulation, 149, 668 vein, 496, 499 Temporo-parietal suture, 58 Tendo Achillis, 256 oculi or palpebrarum, 273, 670 Tendon, central or cordifonn, of dia- phragm, 319 conjoined, of abdominal muscle, 327 Tenon, capsule or fascia of, 284 Tensor. See Muscles. Teres. See Muscles. Terms, descriptive, 5 Testis, lymphatics of, 532 Thenar (Otvap, the palm of the hand) prominence, 225, 689 Thigh, bone of, 111 fasciae of, 231 muscles of, anterior, 240 internal, 246 posterior, 238 nerves of, cutaneous, 647 muscular, 649 superficial anatomy of, 699 Thoracic (thorax) aorta, 430 arteries, 406 axis, 40S duct, 527 ganglia, 657 nerves. Nee Nerves. veins, 512 Thorax (6wpa£, a breast-plate), 26 as a whole, 29 lymphatics of, 535 muscles of, 314 Thumb, arteries of, 426 muscles of, 225 Thymus gland, lymphatics of, 517 Thyrohyals, 57, 76 Thyro-hyoid muscle, 291 space, 671 Thyroid artery, inferior, 396, 672 superior, 367, 672 axis, 395 body, 671 cartilage, 671 foramen, 107 ganglion, 656 nerves, 656 veins, 492, 500 Tibia (a pipe or flute, from its supposed resemblance), 115,694 artery of, 478 homology of, 132, 134 nerve of, 640 ossification of, 125 Tibial arteries. Sec Artery. nerves. See Nerves. veins, 521. Tibialis. Sen Muscles. Tibio-fascialis anticus muscle, 250 Tibio-fibular articulations, 177 Toes, bones of, 123, 125 movements of, 185 transverse ligament of, 261 Tongue, arteries of, 368 lymphatics of, 541 muscles of, 295'44 INDEX TO VOLUME 1. Tongue—continued. nerves of, veins of, 500 Tonsil, 673 Tonsillar artery, 371 Tonsillitic nerve, 578 Torcular (a wine or oil-press) Hcrophili, 34, 502, 505 Trachea, 671, 682 Tracheal arteries, 396 Trachelo-mastoid (Tpdx?]Aor, the neck, mastoid) muscle, 310 Tract, optic, 550 Transversalis fascia, 333 muscle. See Muscles. Transverse arteries. See Auteky. ligament. See Ligament. processes of vertebra, 10, 23 sinus, 505 Transverso-spinales, 31 o Transversus. See Muscles. Trapezium (Tpaireftov, a geometrical figure, dim. of rpane^a, a table or board), 96, 134, 688 ossification of, 102 Trapezius muscle, 190, 682 Trapezoid bone, 96, 133, 134 ossification of, 102 ligament, 153 line, 85 Triangle of Hesselbach, 700 Scarpa’s, 242, 467, 691 Triangular fascia, 325 ligament of urethra, 335 Triangularis. Sec Muscles. Triceps (three-lieaded) muscle, 210, 686 Trifacial or trigeminal nerve, 552 Triticco-glossus muscle, 296 Trochanter (rpoxa-vT-op, rpoxalra, words implying turning), great, 112, 690 j small, 113 Trochanteric fossa, 112 Trochlea (rpox‘A(a, a pulley) of humerus, 9° of orbit, 282, 669 Trochlear fossa, 37 nerve, 552 surface, of femur, 114 Trochlearis muscle, 282 Trunk, articulations of, 139 fasciae of, anterior, 196 posterior, 190 morphology of, 344 lymphatics of, 531 muscles of, abdominal, 322 dorsal, 305 perineal, 334 thoracic, 314 morphology of, 344 nerves of, cutaneous, 646 muscular, 648 superficial anatomy of, 673 Tubercle of bone, 8 adductor. 114 carotid, 672 Tubercle—continued. conoid, of clavicle, 85 of femur, 112 navicular bone, I2t os calcis, 119 quadratus, 112 ribs, 28 scaphoid bone, 95 tibia, 115 zygoma, 39 Tuberosity of bone, 8 of humerus, 89 bicipital, 93 of femur, 114 ischium, 106, 690 os calcis, 119 palate bone, 51 superior maxillary bone, 48 tibia, 115 Tunica abdominalis, 323 vaginalis, hernia in, 699 Turbinate (coiled, from turbo, a whirl) bones. Sec Spongy bones, crest, 48, 51 Tympanic {tympanum, the drum of the ear) arteries, 375, 378 bone, 70, 76 nerve and plexus, 577 plate, 40, 71, 76 ring, 70 Tympanohyal, 71, 76 Tympanum, 40 Ulna (iiXiv-r), the elbow), 91, 687 compared with bones of leg, 132 nerve of, 613 ossification of, 102 Ulnar artery, 416, 688 varieties of 419 nerve, 610, 686, 688 collateral, 614 veins, 509, 510 Umbilical artery, 451 hernia, 696 region, 678 Umbilicus, 332, 679 Unciform {uncus, a hook; forma, shape) bone, 97, 102 Uncinate (uncus, a hook) process of ethmoid bone, 46 Ungual (unguis, a nail) phalanges, 98, 104 Ureter (oyp«o, 1 pass urine), lymphatics of, 532 Uterine artery, 454 plexus of veins, 524 Uterus (womb), lymphatics of, 532 nerves of, 666 Uvula (dim. of uva), 300 muscle of, 301 Vaginal artery, 453 plexus (nerves), 666 (veins), 524745 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Vaginal—continued. process of sphenoid bone, 45 of temporal bone, 40, 63 Vagus nerve, 574 Valsalva, sinuses of, 353 Vas deferens, artery of, 452 nerves of, 665 Vasa aberrantia, brachial, 408, 414, 427 brevia of the stomach, arteries, 439 veins, 526 Vastus muscle, externus, 243 interims, 244 Veins, pulmonary, 350 Veins, Systemic, Descriptive Anatomy of, 488 acromio-thoracic, 512 alveolar, 497 anastomotic, of Trolard, 501 angular, 494 ascending lumbar, 512 auricular anterior, 496 posterior, 49S axillary, 511 azygos, 512 left or small, <; 13 _ right, 512 basilar, 502 basilic, 510, 685 brachial, 511 brachio-cephalic, 490 bronchial, 514 buccal, 494 capsular, 518 cardiac, 488 central of retina, 506 cephalic, 510, 685 of cerebellum, 502 of cerebrum, 500 cervical, deep, 492 transverse, 498 choroid, 501 ciliary, 507 circumflex iliac, deep, 522 superficial, 520 of shoulder, 512 condylar emissary, 508 of corpus cavernosum, 522 of corpus striatum, 501 coronary, of heart, 488, 489 of stomach, 526 of cranium, 500. Sec Sinuses, crico-thyroid, 500 cystic, 526 dental, inferior, 498 posterior, 497 deep cervical, 492 of diploe, 507 dorsal, spinal, 515 of penis, 522 of tongue, 500 emissary, 508 emulgent, 518 epigastric, 522 superficial, 520, 678 ethmoidal, 506 VOL. 1. Veins—continued. facial, anterior, 493, 499 deej), 494 posterior, 496 common, 494, 672 transverse, 496 femoral, 521 frontal, 494, 668 of diploe, 507 of Galen, 501 gastric, 526 gastro-epiploic, 526 gluteal, 522 hfemorrhoidal, 524 of head and neck, 493 heart, 488 hepatic, 518 iliac, external, 522 internal, 522 common, 519 ilio-lumbar, 519 infraorbital, 498 innominate, 490, 677 intercostal, 498, 499 superior, 493, 513 jugular, anterior, 498, 499, 672 external, 498, 499, 673 internal, 499, 672 posterior external, 498 jugulo-ccphalic, 510 labial, 494 lachrymal, 506 laryngeal, 492, 500 lingual, 500 of lower limb (and pelvis), 519 deep, 521 superficial, 519 lumbar, 517 ascending, 512, 517 mammary, internal, 493 masseteric, 494 mastoid emissary, 508 maxillary, internal (posterior), 496 anterior, 494 median-basilic, 510, 686 cephalic, 510, 686 median, 509, 688 dee]), 509 mediastinal, 491 meningeal, middle, 498 mesenteric, inferior, 526 superior, 526 nasal, 494 obturator, 522 occipital, 498 oesophageal, 513 of diploe, 507 emissary, 508 ophthalmic, 506 orbital, 496 ovarian, 517 palatine, 496, 498 palpebral, external, 496 inferior, 494 superior, 494 3 c74G INDEX TO VOLUME I. Veins—continued. pancreatic, 526 parietal, emissary, 508 parotid, 494, 496 par umbilical, 526 pericardial, 513 peroneal, 521 pharyngeal, 499 phrenic, 518 popliteal, 521 portal, 524 accessory, 526 profunda, 521 pubic, 522 pudic, external, 520 internal, 522 pyloric, 526 radial, 508, 6S7 ranine, 500, 670 renal, 518 sacral, lateral, 522 middle, 519 saphenous, long, or internal, 519, 691, 692, 693, 694, 696 short, or external, 520, 693, 694, 696 sciatic, 522 spermatic, 517 spheno-palatine, 498 spinal, 515 anterior longitudinal, 515 posterior longitudinal, 516 of spinal cord, 516 splenic, 526 subclavian, 512, 673 submaxillary, 496 submental, 494 subscapular, 512 supraorbital, 494 suprarenal, 51S suprascapular, 498, 499, 512, 673 temporal, common, 496 deep, 496 middle, 496 superficial, 496 of diploe, 507 temporo-maxillaiy, 496, 499 thoracic, alar, 512 long 512 superior, 512 thymic, 491 thyroid, superior, 500 middle, 500, 672 inferior, 492, 672 tibial, 521 transverse, cervical, 49S, 499, 512, 673 tympanic, 496 ulnar, 509, 687 of upper limb, 50S deep, 511 superficial, 508 of vertebra; (bodies), 515 vertebral, 492 Vein s—cont inucd. vertebral, anterior, 492 posterior, 492 Veins, plexuses of. See, Plexuses. Velum pendulum palati, 300 Vena azygos major, 512 cava inferior, 517, 681 opening in diaphragm for, 319 varieties of, 518 superior, 490, 677 varieties of, 493 hemiazygos, 513 accessoria, 514 magna Galeni, 502 porta;, 524 Vena; comites, 511, 521 cordis minim®, 490 Venesection, caution regarding, 416 Venter (belly) of scapula, 86 Ventro-lateral muscle, 188, 266, 345 Ventro-inguinal (renter, the belly, in- guen, the groin) hernia, 700 Vertebra dentata, 12 prominens, 12 Vertebra (verto, I turn), 9 cervical, 10 first, 11 second, 12 seventh, 12 coccygeal, 17 dorsal, 12 fixed or united, 9 general characters of, 9 groups of, 10 homology of, 22 lumbar, 14 moveable, 9 number of, 9 ossification of, 20 sacral, 15 thoracic, 12 veins of bodies of, 515 Vertebral aponeurosis, 306 artery, 392, 672 column, 9 as a whole, 18 articulations of, 139 in child and in adult, 135 curves of, 18 movements of, 143 ossification of, 20 grooves, 19 segments, 5 veins, 492 Vertebrate homology, 5 theory of skull, 75 type of organization, 2 Vesical arteries. See Artery. ligaments, 337 plexus, nerves, 665 veins, 524 Vesico-prostatic artery, 452 Vesicula seminalis, nerves of, 665 Vessels. See Arteries, Veins, and Lymphatics.747 INDEX TO VOLUME I. Vidian artery, 381 canal, 45, 62 nerve, 563 Vincula accessoria tendinum, 217 Vinculum subflavum, 217 Visceral cavity of body, 3 Vitreous (vitrum, glass) table of skull, 64 Volar (cola, the palm of the hand) artery, superficial, 424, 690 Vomer (a ploughshare), 52, 75 ossification of, 73 Vrolik, on ossification of temporal bone, 71 Web of fingers, 689 of toes, 696 Wharton’s duct, 670 Willis, classification of cranial nerves, 542 circle of, 386 Wilson's muscle, 342 1 Wings of sphenoid bone, 43, 44, 75 Wormian bones, 58, 70 Wrisberg, ganglion of, 661 nerve of, 609 Wrist, articulation of, 158 movements of, 163 nerves of, 612, 613, 617 XlPHISTEKNUM (|i<pos, a SWOl'd ; (TTtpvov, the breast), 27 Zygapophyses (Cu7j root of (evywpi, I yoke, or join together ; apophysis), 10, 23 Zygoma (a cross-bar or bolt, from root. above given), 39, 667 Zygomatic arch, 61 fossa, 61, 62 Zygomatici muscles, 278 END OF VOLUME I. BRADBURY, ACXEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRJARSSeptember, 1882. Works on MEDICINE, SURGERY, AND GENERAL SCIENCE, PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS AND CO., PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON. Ilttafomtr, Swrgtrg mitr ^fpjsiolcrgir. T™ SCIENCE AND ART OF SURGERY; Being a Treatise on Surgical Injuries, Diseases, and Operations. By John Eric Erichsen, F. R.C.S., Surgeon-Extraordinary to H.M. Queen Victoria ; Member of Council and of the Court of Examiners of the Royal College of Surgeons; Emeritus Professor of Surgery and of Clinical Surgery in University College ; Consulting-Surgeon to University College Hospital, and to various Medical Charities. The Seventh Edition, enlarged and care- fully revised ; pp. 2,072, illustrated by 862 Engravings on Wood. 2 vols. 8vo, price 36A A SYSTEM OF SURGERY, Theoretical and Practical, in Treatises by various Authors. Edited by Timothy Holmes, M.A., Surgeon and Lecturer on Surgery, St. George’s Hospital. Second Edition, thoroughly revised, with numerous Woodcuts, Lithographs, and Chromolithographs ; in all 472 Illustrations. In Five Volumes, 8vo, price One Guinea each. %* Each Volume may be had separately, as follows :— Vol. I., price 21 s., comprises all the articles on General Pathology contained in the First Volume of the previous Edition down to the end of “ Collapse,” with the addition of Mr. Croft’s essay on Hectic and Traumatic Fever and the After-Treatment of Operations, which formed part of the Appendix to the previous Edition. Vol. II., price 21 s., comprises all the Treatises in the previous Edition relating to General and Special Injuries. Vol. III., price 21 s.—Diseases of the Eye and Ear, of the Organs of Circulation, Muscles, and Bones. Vol. IV., price 21 s.—Diseases of the Organs of Locomotion, of Inner- vation, of Digestion, of Respiration, and of the Urinary Organs. Vol. V., price 21 s.—Diseases of the Genital Organs, of the Breast, Thyroid Gland, and Skin; Operative Surgery; Appendix of Miscellaneous Subjects ; with a General Alphabetical Index to the whole Work, and a List of the Authors.WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &>c. 2 OUAIN’S ELEMENTS OF ANATOMY. The Eighth Edition. Re-edited by William Sharpey, M.D., LL.D., F. R. S., L. & E. Emeritus Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in University .College, London; Allen Thomson, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., L. & E., Professor of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow ; and Edward Albert Schafer, Assistant Professor of Physiology in University College, London. With 1,000 Woodcut Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo, price 321-. ANATOMY, DESCRIPTIVE AND SURGICAL. ^ By Henry Gray, F.R. S., late Lecturer on Anatomy at St. George’s Hospital. With 438 large Woodcut Illustrations; those in the First Edition after Original Drawings by Dr. Carter, from Dissections made by the Author and Dr. Carter ; the additional Drawings in the Second and subsequent Editions by Dr. Westmacott. Ninth Edition, by T. Holmes, M. A., Surgeon to St. George’s Hospital; with an Introduction on General Anatomy and Development by the Editor. Royal 8vo, 30L A MANUAL OF OPERATIVE SURGERY ON ^ THE DEAD BODY. By Thomas Smith, Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Anatomy at, St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital. A New Edition, re-edited by W. J. Walsham, Demonstrator of Anatomy and Operative Surgery to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Medical School. With 46 Illustrations. 8vo, price 12s. ANATOMICAL OUTLINES FOR THE USE ^ OF STUDENTS IN THE DISSECTING ROOM. By Arthur Hensman, Senior Demonstrator of Anatomy at the Middle- sex Hospital. Comprising 117 Plates from original Drawings by Arthur E. Fisher, with Explanatory Tables by Mr. Hensman. Complete in super-royal 8vo, in Four Parts, each to be had separately. Part I. The Upper Limb, 3«r. 6d. ; Part II. The Leaver Limb, 3^. 6d.; Part III. The Thorax and Abdomen, 3s. 6d. ; Part IV. The Plead and Neck, 3s. 6d. 1 A student who “gets up” his knowledge by reading learns to his cost that it is know- ledge of a kind which vanishes in a few short weeks ; on the other hand, if he has but a mental picture of the part about which he would know, his memory will carry his facts with scarcely an effort. If he be a careful dissector, the best pictures are those he makes with his scalpel—his actual dissections .... His dissections, however, vary from day to day, and he cannot always have these by him for reference. The present outlines have been designed to enable him to chronicle the most important facts by a method which appeals to the memory through the eye.’—Preface. l '-PABLETS OF ANATOMY AND PHYSIO- 1 LOGY. By Thomas Cooke, F. R.C. S., Senior Assistant-Surgeon to the West- minster Hospital, and Lecturer at the School of Anatomy, Physiology and Operative Surgery. Being a Synopsis of Demonstrations given in the Westminster Hospital Medical School, a.d. 1871-1875. With an Ap- pendix containing most of the New Discoveries of Importance. Anatomy, complete, Second Edition. 4to, price 15.?. Physiology, complete, Second Edition. 4to, price ior. *** These Tablets may still he had in separate Fasciculi as originally published.3 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. (COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND PHYSIO- ^ LOGY OF THE VERTEBRATE ANIMALS. By Richard Owen, F.R.S., Superintendent of the Nat. Hist. Depart- ments, British Museum. 3 vols. 8vo, with 1,472 Woodcuts, 7$s. 6d. Vol. I. Fishes and Reptiles, with 452 Woodcuts, 21 s. Vol. II. Warm-blooded Vertebrates, with 406 Woodcuts, 2IJ. Vol. III. Mammalia, including Man, with 614 Woodcuts, 3IJ. 6d. EXPERIMENTAL PHYSIOLOGY, ITS BENE- ^ FITS TO MANKIND ; With an Address on Unveiling the Statue of William Harvey at Folke- stone, August, 1881. By Richard Owen, F.R.S., &c. Crown 8vo, 5.1. OUTLINES OF PHYSIOLOGY, HUMAN AND COMPARATIVE. By John Marshall, F.R.S., Professor of Surgery in University College, London; Surgeon to the University College Hospital. With 122 Woodcut Illustrations. 2 vols. crown 8vo, 321-. 1SJOTES ON PHYSIOLOGY FOR THE USE OF STUDENTS PREPARING FOR EXAMINATION. By Henry Ashby, M.D. Lond., Physician to the General Hospital for Sick Children, Manchester ; formerly Demonstrator of Physiology, Liverpool School of Medicine. Third Edition, thoroughly revised, with new matter added in several of the Sections. 181110, price 5j. j-JEALTH IN THE HOUSE. Twenty-five Lectures on Elementary Physiology in its application to the Daily wants of Man and Animals. By Mrs. C. M. Buckton, Member ! of the Leeds School Board. The Latest Edition, thoroughly revised ; with 41 Woodcuts and Diagrams, Small Svo, price 2s. f$tebical aiEr j^sadjological ^iterate*. [ ECTURES ON THE PRINCIPLES AND ^ PRACTICE OF PHYSIC, Delivered at King’s College, London, by Sir Thomas Watson, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., Hon. LL.B. Cantab., Hon. D.C.L. Oxon., &c., Physician- in-Ordinary to the Queen. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged, with two Plates. 2 vols. 8vo, price 36A QLINICAL LECTURES AND ESSAYS, By Sir James Paget, Bart., F.R.S., D.C.L. Oxon., LL.D. Cantab., &c., Serjeant-Surgeon to the Queen, Surgeon to the Prince of Wales, Consulting-Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Edited by F. Howard Marsh, Assistant-Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Second Edi- tion, revised. 8vo, 15J.4 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGED Y &c. EXAMINATION QUESTIONS IN ANATOMY, PHYSIOLOGY, BOTANY, MATERIA MEDICA, SURGERY, MEDICINE, MIDWIFERY, AND STATE-MEDICINE. Arranged by H. A. Husband, M.B., M.C., M.R.C.S., L.S.A., &c. Third Edition, revised and augmented. 32mo, price 4L 6d. A DICTIONARY OF MEDICINE. Edited by Richard Quain, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, Consulting Physician to the Hospital for Consump- tion, Brompton ; assisted by numerous Eminent Writers. In One Volume, 8vo, 3IJ. 6d. [In October. ^HE SENSES AND THE INTELLECT. By Alexander Bain, LL.D., Professor of Logic in the University of Aberdeen. Third Edition, with numerous Emendations, and a Review of Darwin on Expression as a Postscript. 8vo, 15J. ! THE EMOTIONS AND THE WILL. By the same Author. Third Edition, thoroughly revised, and in great part re-written. 8vo, price 15.L i iwrENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE: •I*-*- A Compendium of Psychology and Ethics. By the same Author. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo, ior. 61. T OGIC, DEDUCTIVE AND INDUCTIVE. By the same Author. In Two Parts, crown 8vo, price ior. 6d. Each Tart may be had separately :— PART I., Deduction, price 4s. ; Part II., Induction, price 6s. 6d. npHE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY FROM 1 THALES TO COMTE. By George Henry Lewes. Fourth Edition, re-written and greatly enlarged. 2 vols. 8vo, price 32s. A SYSTEM OF LOGIC, RATIOCINATIVE ^ AND INDUCTIVE; Being a Connected View of the Principles of Evidence and the Methods of Scientific Investigation. By John Stuart Mill. The Tenth Edition. 2 vols. 8vo, price 25s. ANALYSIS OF J. S. MILL’S SYSTEM OF LOGIC. By W. Stebbing, M.A. Latest Revised Edition. i2mo, 3*. 6d. HANDBOOK OF J. S. MILL’S SYSTEM OF LOGIC. By the Rev. A. H. Killick, M.A. Third Edition [1877], revised. Crown 8vo, 3l 6d.5 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. llatjmkrcfij anfr % feafntent of gtseas*. A TEXT-BOOK OF PATHOLOGY, Including General Pathology and Pathological Anatomy. By Joseph Coats, M.D., &c. ; Pathologist and Lecturer on Pathology in the Western Infirmary, Examiner in Pathology in the University of Glasgow, lately President of the Pathological and Clinical Society of Glasgow. [In preparation. T ECTURES ON SURGICAL PATHOLOGY, Delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons of England. By Sir James Paget, Bart., F.R.S., D.C.L. Oxon., LL.D. Cantab., &c., Serjeant- Surgeon to the Queen, Surgeon to the Prince of Wales, Consulting- Surgeon to St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Third Edition, re-edited by the Author and W. Turner, M.B. 8vo, with 131 Woodcuts, 21 s. oN IN-KNEE DISTORTION (Genu Valgum): Its Varieties and Treatment with and without Surgical Operation. By W. J. Little, M.D., F.R.C.P.; Author of “The Deformities of the Human Frame,” &c. Assisted by Muirhead Little, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. With 40 Woodcut Illustrations. 8vo, price 7r. 6d CONCUSSION OF THE SPINE, NERVOUS W SHOCKS, And other Obscure Injuries of the Nervous System in their Clinical and Medico-Legal Aspects. By John Eric Erichsen, F.R.S., &c.; Surgeon Extraordinary to the Queen. New and Revised Edition. Crown Svo, price 10s. 6d. A TREATISE ON MEDICAL ELECTRICITY, ^ THEORETICAL AND PRACTICAL; And its Use in the Treatment of Paralysis, Neuralgia, and other Diseases. By Julius Althaus, M.D., &c., Senior Physician to the Infirmary for Epilepsy and Paralysis. Third Edition, enlarged and revised; with 147 Illustrations engraved on Wood. 8vo, price i8l A HANDBOOK ON DISEASES OF THE ** SKIN, With especial reference to Diagnosis and Treatment. By Robert Liveing, M.A. & M.D. Cantab., F.R.C.P. Lond., &c., Physician to the Depart- ment for Diseases of the Skin at the Middlesex Hospital. Second Edition, enlarged, with a New Chapter on Therapeutics. Fcap. 8vo, price 5r. NOTES on the TREATMENT OF SKIN DISEASES. By the same Author. Fifth Edition. i8mo, price 31. ELEPHANTIASIS GRHiCORUM, or TRUE LEPROSY; Being the Goulstonian Lectures for 1873. By the same Author. Cr.Svo^r. 6d.6 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &c. ON BRONCHITIS, And the Morbid Conditions connected with it. Being Clinical Lectures delivered at the Middlesex Hospital. By E. Headlam Greenhow, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, and Physician to the Middlesex Hospital. Second Edition, revised and greatly enlarged. 8vo, price 10s. 6d. On ADDISON’S DISEASE, Being the Croonian Lectures for 1875, delivered before the Royal College of Physicians, revised and illustrated by Reports of Cases. By the same Author. With 5 Plates of Figures (3 coloured). Svo, price 12s. 6d. Clinical lectures on diseases of the LIVER, JAUNDICE AND ABDOMINAL DROPSY; Including the Croonian Lectures on Functional Derangements of the Liver delivered at the Royal College of Physicians in 1874. By Charles Murchison, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., &c.; Physician and Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, St. Thomas’s Hospital. Second Edition, thoroughly revised and enlarged ; with 37 Illustrations engraved on Wood. 8vo, price 2is. A TREATISE ON THE CONTINUED FEVERS ^ OF GREAT BRITAIN. By Charles Murchison, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., &c., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians ; Physician and Lecturer on the Principles and Practice of Medicine, St. Thomas’s Hospital. Second Edition, thoroughly revised and enlarged ; with 5 Chromolithographs, 19 Diagrams in Lithography, and 22 Illustrations engraved on Wood. Svo, price 24A A TREATISE ON GOUT AND RHEUMATIC ^ GOUT (RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS). By Alfred Baring Garrod, M.D., F.R.S., &c.; Consulting Physician to King’s College Hospital. Third Edition, thoroughly revised and en- larged ; with 6 Plates, comprising 21 Figures (14 Coloured), and 27 Illus- trations engraved on Wood. 8vo, price 21 s. HIMALAYAN AND SUB-HIMALAYAN DIS- TRICTS OF BRITISH INDIA, Their Climate, Medical Topography, and Disease Distribution : with reasons for assigning a Malarious Origin to Goitre, and some other Diseases. By ! F. N. Macnamara, M.D., F.R.G.S., Surgeon-Major (retired) Indian j Medical Service. With Map and Fever Chart. 8vo, price 21s. Diseases of the kidney and urinary DERANGEMENTS. By W. Howship Dickinson, M.D. Cantab., F.R.C.P., &c., Physician to, j and Lecturer on Medicine at, St. George’s Hospital. In Three Parts. Part I.—Diabetes, with 3 Plates of Figures and 17 Woodcuts. 8vo, price 1 or. 6d. Part II.—Albuminuria, with 11 Plates and 31 Woodcuts, price 20r. *** The Two Parts may be had separately, each an independent work : Part I.—Diabetes, price I2r. cloth. Part II.—Being the Second Edition Revised of Dr. Dickinson’s “ Pathology and Treatment of Albuminuria,” price 21 r. cloth. Part III., completing the work, is in the Press.PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. 7 pLINICAL RESEARCHES ON DISEASE IN ^ INDIA. By Charles Morehead, M.D., Surgeon to the Jamsetjee Jeejeebhoy Hospital. Second Edition, thoroughly revised. 8vo, 21 s. QN THE USE OF THE LARYNGOSCOPE IN W DISEASES OF THE THROAT; With an Appendix on Rhinoscopy. By Morell Mackenzie, M.D. Lond., Senior Physician to the Hospital for Diseases of the Throat and Chest, and Lecturer on Diseases of the Throat at the London Hospital. Third Edition, revised and enlarged; with 47 Woodcut Illustrations. 8vo, price 6s. ...... aXa. RENTAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. By S. James. A. Salter, M.B., F.R.S., Examiner in Dental Surgery at the College; Dental Surgeon to Guy’s Hospital. With 133 Illustrations. 8 vo, price i8r. QUNSHOT INJURIES. Their History, Characteristic Features, Complications, and General Treat- ment ; with Statistics concerning them as they are met with in Warfare. By Surgeon-General T. Longmore, C.B., F.R.C.S., Honorary Surgeon to H.M. Queen Victoria ; Professor of Military Surgery in the Army Medical School. With 58 Illustrations. 8vo, price 31s. 6d. PULMONARY CONSUMPTION ; Its Nature, Varieties, and Treatment ; with an Analysis of One Thousand Cases to exemplify its Duration. By C. J. B. Williams, M.D., F.R.S., and T. Williams, M.A., M.D. Oxon. Post 8vo, icv. 6d. §AN REMO AND THE WESTERN RIVIERA; Comprising Bordighera, Mentone, Monaco, Eze, Beaulieu, Villefranche, Nice, Caraba^el, Cimiez, Cannes, Porto Maurizio, Diano Marina, Alassio, Verezzi, Finalmarina, Noli, Monte Grosso, Arenzano, Pegli, Cornigliano, Genoa, and other towns—climatically and medically considered. By Arthur Hill Hassall, M.D. Map and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, ior. 6d. WINTERING IN THE RIVIERA; With Notes of Travel in Italy and France, and Practical Hints to Travel- lers. By William Miller, S. S.C. Edinburgh. Second and Cheaper Edition, with 12 Lithographic Illustrations. Post Svo, Js. 6d. 1 giscases of Momeii ani> Clpl&rw, aitir poplar lltebical Morlis. XHE DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT OF A DISEASES OF WOMEN, INCLUDING THE DIAGNOSIS OF PREGNANCY. By Graily Hewitt, M.D., Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of Women, University College, and Obstetric Physician to the Hospital ; Examiner in Obstetric Medicine to the University of London. New Edition, being tire Fourth, the greater part re-written and much enlarged, with numerous additional Illustrations. \/n October.8 WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &*c. THE MECHANICAL SYSTEM OF UTERINE A PATHOLOGY. Being the Harveian Lectures delivered before the Harveian Society of London, December, 1877. By Graily Hewitt, M.D., Professor of Midwifery and Diseases of Women, University College, and Obstetric Physician to the Plospital ; Examiner in Obstetric Medicine to the Uni- versity of London. With 31 Life-size Illustrations prepared expressly for this Work. Crown 4to, 7s. 61. T ECTURES ON THE DISEASES OF INFANCY ^ AND CHILDHOOD. By Charles West, M.D., &c., Physician to the Hospital for Sick Children. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. 8vo, i8j. fJINTS TO MOTHERS FOR THE MANAGE- 11 MENT OF THEIR HEALTH DURING THE PERIOD OF PREGNANCY AND IN THE LYING-IN ROOM : With an Exposure of Popular Errors in connection with those subjects, and Hints on Nursing. By Thomas Bull, M. D. New and Cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised and improved. Fcap. 8vo, price ir. 6d. 'THE MATERNAL MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN 1 IN HEALTH AND DISEASE. By the same Author. New and cheaper Edition, thoroughly revised and improved. Fcap. 8vo, price ir. 6d. '“P'HE HANDBOOK FOR MIDWIVES. By Henry Fly Smith, M.B. Oxon., M.R.C.S., late Assistant-Surgeon at the Hospital for Sick Women, Soho Square. With 41 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, price 5.1. Jitateria gtcbixa anb Cjjtrapeulics. '’THOMSON’S CONSPECTUS ADAPTED TO A THE BRITISH PHARMACOPCEIA. By Edmund Lloyd Birkett, M.D., &c., Physician to the City of London Hospital for Diseases of the Chest. Latest Edition, with Supple- ment containing Notices of the Medicines and Preparations added in 1874 to the British Pharmacopoeia. i8mo, 6s. 'THE ESSENTIALS OF MATERIA MEDICA A AND THERAPEUTICS. By Alfred Baring Garrod, M.D., F.R. S., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians; Consulting Physician to King’s College Hospital ; late Pro- fessor of Therapeutics at King’s College, London. The Ninth Edition, revised and edited, under the supervision of the Author, by E. B. Baxter, M.D., F.R.C.P., Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics in King’s College, London ; Senior Physician to the Evelina Hospital for Sick Children ; Assistant-Physician to King’s College Hospital. Crown 8vo, price 12s. 6d.9 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. TYR. PEREIRA’S MATERIA MEDICA AND THERAPEUTICS, Abridged, and adapted for the use of Medical and Pharmaceutical Prac- titioners and Students. Edited by Professor R. Bentley, M.R.C.S., F.L.S., and by Professor T. Redwood, Ph.D., F.C.S. With an Ap- pendix containing the New Medicines included in 1874 by the Medical Council in the British Pharmacopoeia, and Commentaries thereon by the Editors. 8vo, with 126 Woodcuts, price 25r. CJjcntisirg. F)ICTIONARY OF CHEMISTRY AND THE ^ ALLIED BRANCHES OF OTHER SCIENCES. By Henry Watts, F.R.S., F.C.S., Editor of the Journal of the Chemical Society, assisted by eminent Scientific and Practical Chemists. With a Third Supplement, completing the Record of Chemical Discovery to the end of the year 1878, including the more Important Discoveries made in 1879 and 1880. 9 vols. 8vo, price £15 2s. 6d. ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, Theoretical and Practical. By William Allen Miller, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., late Professor of Chemistry in King’s College, London. Part I.— CHEMICAL PHYSICS. Sixth Edition, revised by Herbert McLeod, F.C.S. With 274 Woodcuts. 8vo, price i6r. TY/T ILLER’S ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, Part II. iVJ- INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. Sixth Edition, revised throughout, with Additions by C. E. Groves, Fellow of the Chemical Societies of London, Paris, and Berlin. With 376 Woodcuts. 8vo, price 24^. A/TILLER’S ELEMENTS OF CHEMISTRY, Part III. ORGANIC CHEMISTRY, or the Chemistry of Carbon Compounds. Hydrocarbons, Alcohols, Ethers, Aldehydes and Paraffinoid Acids. Fifth Edition, revised and in great part re-written, by H. E. Armstrong, F.R.S., and C. E. Groves, F.C.S. 8vo, price 3U. 6d. INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF In- organic CHEMISTRY. By William Allen Miller, M.D., D.C.L., LL.D., late Professor of Chemistry in King’s College, London. With 71 Figures on Wood. Small 8vo, price 3.s'. 6d. Quantitative chemical analysis. By T. E. Thorpe, Ph.D., F.R.S.E., Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian University, Glasgow. With S8 Woodcuts. Small 8vo, 4r. 6d. Qualitative chemical analysis and LABORATORY PRACTICE. By T. F.. Thorpe, Ph.D., F. R. S.E., Professor of Chemistry in the Ander- sonian University, Glasgow; and M. M. Pattison Muir. With Plate and 57 Woodcuts. Small 8vo, price 3J. 6d.IO WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &*c. j\ COURSE OF PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY, Arranged for the use of Medical Students, with express reference to the Three Months’Summer Practice. By William Odling, M.A., F.R.S. Fifth Edition, with 71 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, price 6s. PRACTICAL INORGANIC CHEMISTRY. An Elementary Text-Book of Theoretical and Practical Inorganic Che- mistry, designed chiefly for the use of Students of Science Classes connected with the Science and Art Department of the Committee of Council on Education. By William Jago, F.C. S., &c. , Science Master at Brighton College. With 37 Woodcuts. Fcap. 8vo, 2s. INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF OR- A GANIC CHEMISTRY; The Chemistry of Carbon and its Compounds. By H. E. Armstrong, F.R.S., Sec. Chem. Soc. 2nd Edition, with 8 Woodcuts. Small 8vo, 3.?. 6d. CHEMICAL NOTES FOR THE LECTURE ROOM—ON HEAT, LAWS OF CPIEMICAL COMBINATION, AND CHEMISTRY OF THE NON-METALLIC ELEMENTS. By Thomas Wood, Ph.D., F.C.S. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5-r. NOTES ON THE METALS, by the same Author, Second Edition, price 5s. PRACTICAL CHEMISTRY; The Principles of Qualitative Analysis. By William A. Tilden, D. Sc. Lond. F.C.S. Fcp. 8vo, price is. 6d. INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF CHEMI- A CAL PHILOSOPHY; The Principles of Theoretical and Systematic Chemistry. By the same Author. With 5 Woodcuts. Small 8vo, 3J. 6d. ^NNALS OF CHEMICAL MEDICINE; Including the Application of Chemistry to Physiology, Pathology, Thera- peutics, Pharmacy, Toxicology, and Hygiene. Edited by J. L. W. Thudi- ciium, M.D. Vols. I. and 11., price 141. each. THE ART OF ELECTRO-METALLURGY, Including all known Processes of Electro-Deposition. By G. Gore, LL.D., F.R.S. With Woodcuts and Diagrams. Small Svo, 6.r. ! EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY ^ For Junior Students. By J. Emerson Reynolds, M.D.,F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, Univ. of Dublin. Fcp. Svo, with numerous Woodcuts. Part L— Introductory, price is. 6d. Part II -Non-Metals, with an Appendix on Systematic Testing for Acids, price 2S. 6d.11 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS 6- CO. oN, ARTIFICIAL MANURES, Their Chemical Selection and Scientific Applications to Agriculture ; a series of Lectures given at the Experimental Farm, Vincennes, in 1867 and 1874-75. By Georges Ville. Translated and edited by W. Crookes, F.R.S., V.P.C.S. Second Edition, with 31 Illustrations. 8vo, price 21s. INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY; A Manual for use in Technical Colleges or Schools, also for Manufacturers and others, based on a Translation of Stohmann and Engler’s German Edition of Payen’s Precis de Chimie Industrielle. Edited and supple- mented with Chapters on the Chemistry of the Metals, &c., by B. Id. Paul, Ph.D. With 698 Woodcuts. Medium 8vo, 42s. piESSE’S ART OF PERFUMERY, And Methods of obtaining the Odours of Plants ; the Growth and General Flower Farm System of raising Fragrant Herbs ; with Instructions for the Manufacture of Perfumes for the Handkerchief, Scented Powders, Odorous Vinegars and Salts, Snuff, Dentifrices, Cosmetics, Perfumed Soap, &c. To which is added an Appendix on Preparing Artificial Fruit Essences, &c. Fourth Edition, with 100 Woodcuts. Square crown 8vo, 2Ij. Snwte aitir JUfural Mtsfom. i RRANDE’S DICTIONARY OF SCIENCE, LITE- , RATURE, AND ART; Comprising the Definitions and Derivations of the Scientific Terms in general use, together with the History and Descriptions of the Scientific Principles of nearly every branch of Human Knowledge. Re-edited by the Rev. Sir G. W. Cox, Bart., M. A. 3 vols. medium 8vo, 63s. IJRE’S DICTIONARY OF ARTS, MANUFAC- TURES, AND MINES; Containing a clear Exposition of their Principles and Practice. The Seventh Edition, completely revised and greatly enlarged by Robert Hunt, F. R.S., Keeper of Mining Records, assisted by F. W. Rudi.er, F. G.S. and by numerous Contributors. With 2,604 Woodcuts. 4 vols. medium Svo, price 7/. 7s. JTLEMENTARY TREATISE ON PHYSICS; Experimental and Applied, for the use of Colleges and Schools. Trans- lated and edited from Ganot’s El&ments de Physique (with the Author’s sanction) by E. Atkinson, Ph.D., F.C.S., Professor of Experimental Science, Staff College, Sandhurst. Tenth Edition, revised and enlarged, with 4 Coloured Plates and 844 Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, price 15J.WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY &c. 12 NATURAL PHILOSOPHY FOR GENERAL ^ READERS AND YOUNG PERSONS; Being a Course of Physics divested of Mathematical Formulae, and ex- pressed in the language of daily life. Translated from Ganot’s Cours de Physique (with the Author’s sanction) by E. Atkinson, Ph.D., F.C.S. Fourth Edition, carefully revised ; with 25 pages of New Matter, 2 Coloured Tlates, and 471 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, price Js. 61i. ARNOTT’S ELEMENTS OF PHYSICS OR ^ NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. Seventh Edition, edited by A. Bain, LL.D., and A. S. Taylor, M.D., F.R.S. Crown 8vo, Woodcuts, 12s. 6d. j HEAT A MODE OF MOTION. By John Tyndall, LL.D., D.C.L., F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution of Great Britain. Sixth Edition (Thirteenth Thousand), thoroughly revised and enlarged ; with Frontispiece and 123 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 12s. gOUND. By the same Author. A New Edition, being the Fourth, thoroughly revised, and including Recent Researches. Crown 8vo, with Woodcuts. \_In the Press. J ECTURES ON LIGHT delivered in America in 1872 and 1873. By the same Author. Second Edition, with Portrait engraved on Steel, 1 Lithographic Plate, and 59 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, price 7-c. 6d. T ESSONS IN ELECTRICITY AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION OF GREAT BRITAIN, 1875-76. By the same Author. With 58 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. 1SJ OTES OF A COURSE OF SEVEN LECTURES i>l ON ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA AND THEORIES. By the same Author. Crown 8vo, price u. sewed, or l.r. 6d. cloth. NT OTES OF A COURSE OF NINE LECTURES ON I "*■ ' LIGHT. By the same Author. Crown 8vo, is. sewed, or u. 6d. cloth. pRAGMENTS OF SCIENCE; ■*" A Series of Detached Essays, Addresses, and Reviews. By the same Author. Sixth Edition, revised and augmented. 2 vols, post 8vo, 16s. •RESEARCHES ON THE FLOATING MATTER 1V OF THE AIR IN RELATION TO PUTREFACTION AND IN- FECTION. With 24 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, Js. 6d. 'TEXT-BOOK OF PHYSICAL OPTICS. By R. T. Glazebrook, M.A., Fellow and Lecturer of Trinity College, Cambridge. Fcp. 8vo, Woodcuts. [/« the press. \ VIBRATORY motion and sound. By J. D. Everett, M.A., D. C.L., F.R.S., F.R.S.E. ; Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Queen’s College, Belfast. With 48 Woodcuts and 4 Lithographic Plates of Diagrams. 8vo, price 7s. 6d.13 PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. AND RAIN; The Beginnings of a Chemical Climatology. By Robert Angus Smith, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. (General) Inspector of Alkali Works for the Govern- ment. With 8 Illustrations. 8vo, price 24s. 'J'HE CORRELATION OF PHYSICAL FORCES. Sixth Edition, with other contributions to Science. By the Hon. Sir W. R. Grove, M.A., F.R.S., one of the Judges of the Court of Common Pleas. 8vo, price 15J. A SHORT MANUAL ON HEAT FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS AND SCIENCE CLASSES. By the Rev. A. Irving, B. A. and B.Sc., Second Master of the High School, Nottingham. With 33 Diagrams. Small 8vo, price is. 6d. theory OF HEAT- | ■*" By J. Clerk Maxwell, M.A., LL.D. Edin., F. R.SS. L. & E., Professor of Experimental Physics in the University of Cambridge. With 41 Wood- cuts and Diagrams. Small 8vo, price 3L 6d. '"THERMODYNAMICS. By Richard Wormei.l, D.Sc., M.A., Head-Master of the Middle-Class Corporation School, London. Edited by Professor G. C. Foster, F.R.S., and P. Magnus, B.Sc., B.A. With 41 Diagrams. Fcp. 8vo, price 1 a 6d. ELEMENTS OF ASTRONOMY. By Robert S. Ball, LL.D., F.R.S., Professor of Astronomy in the University of Dublin, and Royal Astronomer of Ireland. With 136 Figures and Diagrams. Small 8vo, price 6s. OUTLINES OF ASTRONOMY. By Sir John F. W. Herschel, Bart., K.H., &c., Member of the Insti- tute of France. Twelfth Edition, with 9 Plates, and numerous Diagrams. Square crown 8vo, price 12s. (CELESTIAL OBJECTS FOR COMMON TELE. SCOPES. By the Rev. T. W. Webb, M.A. Fourth Edition, adapted to the Present State of Sidereal Science ; Map, Plate, Woodcuts. Crown Svo, price 9s. A NEW STAR ATLAS, ^ For the Library, the School, and the Observatory, in Twelve Circular Maps (with Two Index Plates). Intended as a Companion to ‘ Webb’s Celestial Objects for Common Telescopes.’ With a Letterpress Introduction on the Study of the Stars, illustrated by 9 Diagrams. By Richard A. Proctor, B.A., Hon. Sec. R. A. S. Crown 8vo, price 5-r. 'THE SUN: RULER, LIGHT, FIRE, AND 1 LIFE OF THE PLANETARY SYSTEM, By Richard A. Proctor, B.A. Third Edition, revised; with 9 Plates (7 coloured) and 110 Figures engraved on Wood. Crown 8vo, price 14LH WORKS ON MEDICINE, SURGERY Grc. ^HE MOON; Her Motions, Aspects, Scenery, and Physical Condition. By Richard A. Proctor, B.A. With Plates, Charts, Woodcuts, and Lunar Photo- graphs. Crown 8vo, icv. 6d. QTHER WORLDS THAN OURS; The Plurality of Worlds Studied under the Light of Recent Scientific Researches. By the same Author. Fourth Edition, revised and enlarged ; with 14 Illustrations (6 coloured). Crown 8vo, price lor. 6d. 'J'HE ORBS AROUND US; A Series of Familiar Essays on the Moon and Planets, Meteors and Comets, the Sun and Coloured Pairs of Suns. By the same Author. Second Edition, with Chart and 4 Diagrams. Crown 8vo, price Js. 61. TRANSITS OF VENUS. A Popular Account of Past and Coming Transits from the First Observed by Horrocks, A.D. 1639, to the Transit of A.D. 2012. By the same Author. Fourth Edition, with 20 Plates (12 Coloured) and 38 Woodcuts. 8vo, price 8r. 6d. CTUDIES OF VENUS-TRANSITS. An Investigation of the Circumstances of the Transits of Venus in 1874 and 1882. By the same Author. With 7 Diagrams and 10 Plates of Figures. Svo, $s. JVSSAYS ON ASTRONOMY; A Series of Papers on Planets and Meteors, the Sun and Sun-surrounding Space, Stars, and Star Cloudlets ; and a Dissertation on the approaching Transit of Venus. By the same Author. With 10 Plates and 24 Wood- cuts. Svo, price 12s. A TREATISE ON THE CYCLOID, And on all forms of Cycloidal Curves, and on the use of Cycloidal Curves in dealing with the Motions of Planets, Comets, &c., and of Matter pro- jected from the Sun. By the same Author. Crown 8vo, ior. 6d. LIGHT SCIENCE FOR LEISURE HOURS; A Series of Familiar Essays on Scientific Subjects, Natural Phenomena, &c. By the same Author. First and Second Series. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. each. VVVWVVWVVVAA^AAAAAVWWV A HANDBOOK OF PRACTICAL TELE- ** GRAPHY. By R. S. Culley, Member Inst. C.E., Engineer-in-chief of Telegraphs to the Post Office. The Seventh Edition, revised and enlarged ; with 132 Woodcuts and 18 Lithographic Plates of Apparatus. 8vo, price i6j. '"TEXT-BOOK OF TELEGRAPHY. By W. H. Preece, C.E., Divisional Engineer, P.O. Telegraphs; and J. SlVEWRIGHT, M.A., Superintendent (Engineering Department) P.O. Telegraphs. With 160 Figures and Diagrams engraved on wood. Small 8vo, 3-r. 6d. A TREATISE ON PHOTOGRAPHY. By W. De Wiveleslie Abney, F.R.S., Captain in the Corps of Royal Engineers, late Instructor in Chemistry and I holography, School of Mili- tary Engineering, Chatham. With 105 Diagrams. Small 8vo, 3s. 6d.PUBLISHED BY MESSRS. LONGMANS & CO. 15 '"pEXT-BOOK of SYSTEMATIC MINERALOGY. By Hilary Bauerman, F.G.S., Associate of the Royal School of Mines. With 372 Woodcuts. Small 8vo, 6s. ^METALS, THEIR PROPERTIES and TREAT- MENT. By Charles Loudon Bloxam, Professor of Chemistry in King’s College, London. With 105 Figures on Wood. Small 8vo, price 3s. 6d. ManUAL of practical assaying. By John Mitchell, F.C.S. Fifth Edition, in which are incorporated all the recent valuable improvements in Assaying; including Volumetric and Colorimetric Assays, and the Blowpipe Assays. Edited and re-written by W. Crookes, F.R.S., with 188 Woodcuts. 8vo, 3U. 6d. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON METALLURGY, Adapted from the last German Edition of Professor Kerl’s Metallurgy, by William Crookes, F.R.S., and Ernst Rohrig, Ph.D. 3 vols. 8vo, price 41. 19s. 'T'HE TREASURTOF BOTANY, OR POPULAR i A DICTIONARY OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM; With which is incorporated a Glossary of Botanical Terms. Edited by J. Lindley, M.D., F.R.S., and T. Moore, F.L.S., assisted by numerous Contributors. With 20 Steel Plates, and numerous Woodcuts from Original Designs by W. H. Fitch. 2 Parts, fcap. 8vo, 12s. LOUDON’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PLANTS: Comprising the Specific Character, Description, Culture, History, Applica- tion in the Arts, and every other desirable particular respecting all the plants indigenous to, cultivated in, or introduced into, Britain. Corrected by Mrs. Loudon. 8vo, with above 12,000 Woodcuts, price 42s. 1AECAISNE & LE MAOUT’S GENERAL SYS- ^ tem of descriptive and analytical botany. Translated from the French by Mrs. Hooker. The Orders arranged after the Method followed in the Universities and Schools of Great Britain, its Colonies, America, and India, with Additions, an Appendix on the Natural Method, and a Synopsis of the Orders, by J. D. Hooker, C.B., F.R.S. With 5,500 Woodcuts. Imperial 8vo, 3IJ. 6d. TEXT-BOOK of STRUCTURAL AND PHY- 1 SIOLOGICAL botany. By Professor Otto W. Thom£. Translated and edited by A. W. Ben- nett, M.A., B. Sc., F.L.S., Lecturer on Botany at St. Thomas’s Hospital. With Map and 600 Woodcuts. Small Svo, 6s. ELEMENTARY BOTANY', THEORETICAL ^ AND PRACTICAL. A Text-Book designed primarily for Students of Science Classes connected with the Science and Art Department of the Committee of Council on Education. By H. Edmonds, B.Sc., Lond., &c. With 312 Woodcuts. Fcp. 8vo, price 2s.Jfnir Abney’s Photography . . . 14 Althaus’s Medical Electricity . . 5 Armstrong’s Organic Chemistry . 10 Arnott’s Elements of Physics . . 12 Ashby’s Notes on Physiology . . 3 Bain on the Emotions and Will . 4 on Mental and Moral Science 4 on the Senses and Intellect . 4 Bain’s Logic ..... 4 Ball’s Text-book of Astronomy . . 13 Bauerman’s Mineralogy. . .15 Bloxam on Metals . . . . 15 Brande’s Dictionary of Science, Literature, and Art. . .11 Buckton’s Physiological Lectures . . 3 Bull’s Hints to Mothers . . . 8 Management of Children . 8 Coats’s Text-Book of Pathology . 5 Cooke’s Tablets of Anat. and Phys. 2 Culley’s Handbook of Telegraphy . 14 Decaisne and Le Maout’s Botany . 15 Dickinson on Diseases of the Kidney 6 Edmonds’s Elementary Botany . 15 Erichsen on Concussion of the Spine 5 ■ ’s Surgery . . . . 1 Everett’s Vibratory Motion and Sound . . . . .12 Ganot’s Natural Philosophy . .12 — Physics . . . .11 Garrod on Gout . . . . 6 Garrod’s Materia Medica . . 8 Glazebrook’s Optics . . . 12 Gore’s Electro-Metallurgy . . 10 Gray’s Anatomy . . . . 2 Greenhow on Addison’s Disease . 6 Bronchitis . . 6 Grove’s Correlation of Physical Forces . . . . .13 Hassall’s San Remo and the Western Riviera . . . . . 7 Hensman’s Anatomical Outlines . 2 Herschel’s Outlines of Astronomy . 13 Hewitt on the Diseases of Women . 7 on Uterine Pathology . 8 Holmes’s Surgery . . . . x Husband’s Examination Questions . 4 Irving’s Manual of Heat . . . 13 Tago’s Inorganic Chemistry . . 10 Kerl’s Metallurgy . • . . 15 Lewes’s IPistory of Philosophy . 4 Lindley’s Treasury of Botany . .15 Little on Genu Valgum . . 5 Liveing Diseases of the Skin . . 5 Treatment of ditto . 5 Leprosy . . . . 5 Longmore on Gunshot Injuries . 7 Loudon’s Encyclopaedia of Plants . 15 Mackenzie on Laryngoscope . . 7 Macnamara’s Ind. Med. Geography 6 Marshall’s Outlines of Physiology . 3 Maxwell’s Theory of Heat . .13 Mill’s System of Logic . . .4 Miller’s Elements of Chemistry . 9 Inorganic Chemistry . . 9 Wintering in the Riviera . 7 Mitchell’s Assaying . . .15 Morehead on Disease in India . . 7 Murchison on Continued Fevers . 6 — on Diseases of the Liver 6 - Odling’s Practical Chemistry . 10 Owen’s Experimental Physiology . 3 Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of Vertebrata . 3 Paget’s Clinical Lectures and Essays 3 — Surgical Pathology . . 5 Payen’s Industrial Chemistry . .11 Pereira’s Elements of Materia Medica 9 Piesse’s Art of Perfumery . . . 11 Preece and Sivewright’s Telegraphy 14 Proctor’s Astronomical Essays . 14 New Star Atlas . . . 13 Orbs Around us . .14 —— Plurality of Worlds . .14 Scientific Essays . .14 the Moon . . . 14 the Sun . . .13 Transits of Venus . .14 Transit Studies . .14 Treatise on the Cycloid . 14 Quain’s Anatomy .... 2 Medical Dictionary . . 4 Reynolds’s Experimental Chemistry 10 Salter’s Dental Pathology and Surgery 7 Smith’s Air and Rain . . .13 Handbook for Midwives . 8 ■ Operative Surgery on the Dead Body .... 2 Thome’s Structural and Phys. Botany 15 Thomson’s Conspectus, by Birkett . 8 Thorpe’s Quantitative Analysis . . 9 Thorpe& Muir’s Qualitative Analysis 9 Thudichum’s Annals of Chemical Medicine . . . . . 10 Tilden’s Chemical Philosophy . 10 Practical Chemistry . . 10 Tyndall’s Fragments of Science . 12 Floating Matter of the Air 12 —— Lectures on Heat . .12 Light . .12 Sound . .12 Lessons in Electricity . 12 Notes on Electricity . .12 Notes on Light . .12 Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufac- tures, and Mines . . . 11 Ville on Artificial Manures . .11 Watson’s Principles and Practice of Physic ..... 3 Watts’s Dictionary of Chemistry . 9 Webb’s Celestial Objects . . 13 West on the Diseases of Children . 8 Williams on Consumption . . 7 Wood’s Chemical Notes . . 10 Notes on the Metals . .10 Wormell’s Thermodynamics . .13 BRADBURY, AGNEW, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.. ' \ -