827 Phthisis Pulmonalis.* ** Case 1. A middle-aged man, who was a proficient in music, and who three years before had a cough, * Amongst the numerous and excellent works which have been written on pulmonary phthisis, perhaps I am warranted in saying that the most luminous exposition of this malady has been derived from the pen of Dr. Bayle; and I shall avail myself of his, as well as of M. Portal’s investigations, for a preliminary note to Mor- gagni’s cases. Dr. Bayle maintains, in the first place, that “ every injury of the lungs, which, left to itself produces a pro- “ gressive disorganization of them, and in the end ulceration ** and death, ought to be called pulmonary phthisis.” In the second place he shows that the diseases most frequently con- founded with phthisis are principally catarrh, peripneumony, and pleurisy, when they follow a chronic course; and that pulmonary chronic catarrh only affects the mucous membrane and not the parenchyma like phthisis. He also shows that effusions of puru- lent or puriform matter, in one or both sides of the chest, are often mistaken for phthisis. In the third place he distinguishes the fol- lowing species of pulmonary phthisis, but admits that many of them are sometimes united in the same person. 1, Tubercular phthisis; 2, granular phthisis; 3, phthisis with melanosis; 4, phthisis from ulceration; 5, phthisis from calculi; 6, phthisis from cancer. When exposing the nature of his first species he observes that the tubercles may be encysted or not encysted; that they vary in size; and are found in different states; namely, firm—soft in the centre—transformed into clotted purulent matter—and ultimately destroyed by suppuration. These ulcers are almost always covered by a distinct membrane, which secretes the pus. When this membrane is not found, there is always an albuminous mem- braniform bed which supplies its place, except where a suppu- ration has occurred in that part of the tissue of the lungs which became inflamed at the time that the softening of the tubercular unencysted degeneracy took place. In this case the inflamed substance and the tubercle are destroyed together, and the tubercular is united to the ulcerated phthisis. The membrane