381 and of this circumstance the following case affords an example. It was communicated to me by that distinguished man Santorini. The patient was a female, fifty-three years of age. Her lower limbs were cedematous, and her pulse about eighty. But the most remarkable phenomenon was a pulsation or undulation in the external jugular veins, not corresponding, however, with the pulsations in the temporal or radical arteries. In a recumbent position the pulse of the jugulars was a hundred and twenty or thirty, and at the wrist about sixty. Doctor P. observes that with the exception of a somewhat similar case under the care of Dr. Young, he could not find that such an occurrence had been observed in St. George’s hospital for thirty years; and infers from its rarity that no common obstruction can occasion this repulsion of venous blood. In this instance, indeed, as there was a similar morbid state of both sides of the heart, there was a double regurgitation of blood, namely into the pulmonary veins, and into the vense cavae manifested by the pulsation in the jugulars.—Ed. Med, and Surg. Journal, April 1816. Dr. Carbutt has related the case of a woman forty-two years of age, who complained of pain and uneasiness about the heart; numbness in the left arm and hand; and the pain and uneasiness were increased by walking up hill or against the wind. The heart beat through an extended surface; the pulse was rapid, weak, irregular, and scarcely perceptible at the wrist; an undulating pulsation was observed in the course of the right internal jugular vein ; and the right external jugular was distended. The respi- rations were thirty in a minute, laborious and performed by the ribs. There was slight heinoptoe—the countenance was puft'y and pale—the lips blue. As the disease advanced the right arm became benumbed like the left. Dissection. The heart was twice its usual size, the inferior cava was greatly enlarged, and the superior less so. One of the tricusped valves was remarkably tied down, so as to perform its office very imperfectly. The pulmonary veins were much dis- tended. The right auricle was enlarged, but the left was natural. The aortic valves were inadequate to close the artery, in conse- quence of one being nearly obliterated.—Ed.