505 Some cases of asphyxia are accompanied with great diminution of strength and vital power, and “ most singular characters which the pulse offers in some “ diseases of the heart is, its difference in the two arms, or its “ being perceptible in one and not in the other. ** I know,” says he, “ that it may sometimes arise from an “ obliteration or ossification of an artery, of which I have given “ an instance; but it will generally be found to depend upon an “ organic lesion of the heart or great vessels, as the following “ observations prove. " 1.—An aneurismal tumour of the heart or large vessels, may ** be so situated as to press upon one of the subclavian arteries, “ and prevent the usual quantity of blood from flowing into it, “ or almost totally to obliterate its area. “ 2.—I have seen in more than one aneurism of the aorta, the “ mouth of these arteries contracted by the swelling of the 4t internal surface of the coats of that vessel and of the circum- “ ference of the arterial orifice, which may itself, perhaps, be in “ a state of ossification. The arteries which originate from the “ arch of the aorta very rarely participate in the disposition to “ be dilated when this spot is the seat of an aneurismal tumour; “ but they are often so much compressed by it as to weaken and “ even destroy the pulse in one arm, and that generally the left. “ 3.—I have seen a person affected with aneurism of the aorta, “ in whom the want of pulse in the right arm was owing to a “ kind of hard and cartilaginous valvular spur, situated forwards “ in the aorta, and which, by its direction, turned the whole of “ the column of blood into the carotid, and prevented its entrance ** into the subclavian artery of that side.” Corvisart on the Hearty transl. by Dr. Hebb, p. 336. To these causes might be added obstruction of the subclavian artery by coagulable lymph, and by adhesive inflammation. Spasmodic affections, too, I believe, may effect this contrariety in the pulsations of opposite arteries. The following I consider an instance of diversity of pulsation, from nervous irritability, derived from gastric disorder. Early in the morning of the twenty-fourth of last October I was requested to see a gentleman, about fifty years of age, who