370 deviate from its natural action. At the expiration of some time the difficulty of respiration daily and he feels as if hot vapours were mounting from the chest to the head; and is gloomy, impatient and irascible. Palpitations, more or less frequent, are found to occur. There is considerable irregularity and variableness in the pulse, though much less than in the other stages of the disease. The respiration is high, short, and difficult; the least exertion causes an oppressive breathlessness; and the patient is liable to symptomatic catarrhal complaints. The digestive faculties appear to have an unnatural degree of activity; and the bowels are usually constipated. The secretions are not much disturbed, but the urine deposites a red and bricky kind of sediment. Second stage. The face is bloated, the cheeks and lips are of a deep red, approaching to violet; the general bulk of the patient is somewhat reduced, and the feet and legs during the day become oedematous. The region of the heart does not give a clear sound on percussion. The numbness more frequently recurs, and is sometimes followed by fainting. There is a sense of violent con- striction about the throat, and the moment the patient endeavours to sleep he becomes faint. He is often awaked also by frightful dreams. The palpitations are now stronger and more frequent; and are sometimes felt to a considerable extent; and this cir- cumstance occasions many to suppose that the pulsations are in the coeliac artery, which can only be felt on extraordinary occasions. The pulse in active aneurism is hard, vibrating, frequent, and sometimes contracted. In passive aneurism, on the contrary, it is soft, tolerably frequent, feeble, and easily suppressed. In both cases it is sometimes irregular, but this usually arises from co-existent lesions. The respiration is ex- tremely difficult. The patient makes long inspirations, which he is obliged incessantly to repeat, because the gorged and com- pressed lungs can admit but little air. He cannot breathe in the horizontal position, but is obliged to sit up bending his body forwards, and supporting, as it were, his chest upon his knees. He cannot ascend three or four steps in close succession, without being obliged suddenly to stop in consequence of an extreme shortness of breath. He has a troublesome cough, and often, bloody expectorations. The digestive powers are impaired and