417 Rupture of the heart. The first case of rupture of the heart, as far as I have been able to ascertain, is given by Harvey, in After the habitual excitation which results from the abuse of vinous or spirituous liquors, no organ so frequently exhibits marks of disorganization as the liver; and when it becomes dis- eased, it is familiarly known to exert a morbid action, or areaction> on the general system, or on some individual function. The following is a remarkable case of enlargement of the heart, in complication with that of the liver, from the abuse of ardent spirits. It is related by Dr. Gairdner. A man thirty-two years of age had been healthy till three years before his death, but xvas addicted to ardent spirits. The symp- toms of disease were, great pain and oppression, with fulness in the two hypochondria and in the epigastric region; and he was most easy in the horizontal position. An unusual pujsation could be perceived in the left hypoehondrium, corresponding with that at the wrists, which was a hundred and twenty, full and strong, but regular. Respiration was hurried and oppressed; his coun- tenance was rather livid and anxious; his tongue white, and the bowels torpid. His feet ultimately became cedematous, and his pulse irregular. Previous to his last illness he had been very much subject to incubus. Dissection. The abdomen contained a serous fluid \ the liver was enlarged and hard, and lymph was concreted on its surface; the gall-bladder also was full of bile. The liver weighed 5|lb. dutch. The spleen was also enlarged and hard, weighing l|lb. There was slight elfusion of serum into the thorax. The heart in size resembled that of the ox, and w as equal in all its proportions. It weighed 2'jib. The sinus valsalvae of the pulmonary artery was ossified. The uterus has been adverted to as an occasional source of deranged action in the heart. I recently attended a case of abortion in which the action of that organ was rendered extremely slow, irregular, and intermittent. It only beat two and forty in the minute, but the pulse wras moderately full. After every two or three pulsations, in which, indeed, there wras no regularity, there e e