329 excretion of thick and offensive matter. He could lie on either side, and had no pain in the thorax. lymphatic glands in the lungs. In an essay on the pulmonary glands. Portal, however, attempts to prove the distinction between the lymphatic glands of the lungs and the bronchial glands, and as the subject is one of lively interest I shall give an abstract of that article. Naturally, he says, the lymphatic glands are very different in their structure and situation from the bronchial: they are much smaller, and also rounder and harder to the touch, and resemble the other lymphatic glands. But the distinction between them, in the morbid state, he found more remarkable than in the natural; having frequently observed most of the bronchial glands altered in lungs, whilst the lymphatic glands were perfectly healthy; and vice versa. In reference to Morgagni and others who entertained the opinion that there are no lymphatic glands in these viscera. Portal observes, “ Les medecins praficiens ne distinguent jamais “ les alterations de ccs glandes, soit qu’ ils par lent des tubercules “ formes dans les poumons des asthmatiques, soit qu’ ils traitent de la phthisic de la naissance, ou d’autres especes de suppu- u rations dupoumon; c’est presque toujours d'une manure vague “ et en confondant celles qui affectent ces deux especes de glandes, “ quoiqu' elles different entre elles aussi essentiellement que les «parties dans lesquelles elles out leur siege ” He considers it indispensable, however, to make a distinction, before a correct idea can be formed relative to phthisis, and consequently before any truly efficient remedies can be employed. Like the other lymphatic glands, he found those of the lungs presented consi- derable diversity of morbid appearances, and particularizes obstruction, inflammation, and suppuration. In five persons who died of phthisis, but who had not expectorated pus till a short time before death, the lymphatic glands were affected in different ways. Some were enlarged and filled with a chalky substance —such as is often found in glands of this nature; in others, the substance had softened and become puriform; others were in a state of suppuration, and the adjacent substance had ulcerated. He explains the varieties in the degree and seat of pain, by referring to the adhesions which take place between the lungs and pleura, the diaphragm or other parts: and the aphonia or