130 months afterwards she not only had irregular accessions of fever, but the maniacal symptoms acquired a more furious character. Her strength gradually decreased, and she died. Dissection. The cerebrum was humid, and a small quantity of serum occupied the lateral occasional increase in the degree of contraction of the muscles of the limbs, and it was evident that without a speedy rescue she must die. I opened a vein, expecting almost instant death; and the blood flowed impetuously—but the pulsation of the artery was not developed, and she did not at the time experience relief from the abstraction of about twelve ounces. I then administered a dram of laudanum, twelve grains of scammony and the same quantity of calomel, washed down with a table spoonful of brandy. In half an hour the pain subsided, breathing became a little more free, the body was covered with a most profuse perspiration, the pulse gradually unfolded and became more and more regular, and at ten o’clock I left her in a moderate tranquil state. The blood was buff and cupped. The bowels were not opened till the following morning. In the progress of recovery she had two or three slight attacks of similar affection which were removed by sixty drops of laudanum, with the scammony and calomel. As Morgagni did not bestow the same attention on the patho- logy of the spine, as on that of the head, I shall just advert to the division of its diseases adopted by Dr. Abercrombie, though it does not exclusively relate to the subject of this section. I. In- flammation and suppuration. 2. Serous effusion. 3. Gelatinous effusion. 4. Induration of the chord. 5. Thickening of its membranes. 6. Destruction of portions of the spinal chord. 7. Extravasated blood. 8. Hydatids and tumours. 9. Ossifi- cation of its membranes. 10. Fungous excrescences. 11. Com- pression from diminution of the spinal canal. 12. Increased vascularity and turgidity of the vessels of the spinal chord and its membranes. Its injuries are derived, 1. From concussion. 2. From diseases of the vertebrae. 3. From affections of the processus dentatus. Ed. Med. J. Jan. 1818.- Ed.