152 continued at the time the letter containing this case was written.*—Morgagni, li. 14. * Since the time of Morgagni the bodies of numerous hydro- phobic persons have undergone minute investigation; but unhap- pily the result has not yet been such as to afford any greater confidence of mitigating the heart-rending symptoms which dis- tinguish this disease, or such as to excite any expectation of averting its speedily fatal termination. This, perhaps, is the most justly dreaded of any malady to which the human body is exposed; and no practitioner merits the satisfaction of a peaceful mind, after the unsuccessful discharge of his professional duty, if he voluntarily resort to temporizing and useless expedients when he might extirpate the bitten part. It will not be compatible w ith my present undertaking to extend my remarks further than pointing out the general features of the cases alluded to; and in doing this I shall pass over the symp- toms. Unfortunately they have been so often and so touchingly delineated, that to recapitulate them would be a work of supere- rogation. The time at which the symptoms of canine madness occur is extremely uncertain. There are insulated but strongly charac- terized instances in which their onset was observed within four- teen days of the bite, but those who have most frequently witnessed the disease, place their occurrence at a more distant period. The disease appears seldom to arise earlier than three weeks, and in most cases the intervening time exceeds this period, and extends to an indefinite term of weeks, months, or years. It will, however, be found to have transpired most frequently before tw^o or three months have elapsed; but as far as w'e can rely on phenomena which pass under observation, and which associate the hydrophobic symptoms w'ith a previous and suspicious bite, some years have glided away between the insertion of the poison, and the consequent disease. Morgagni alludes to the term of twenty and even forty years, but these statements must be received with great distrust. Occasionally this affection discovers itself before irritation completely ceases in the injured part, when as a precursor of the secondary disease the morbid action increases, and is