333 Case 3. A young woman twenty-four years of age, was annoyed with a troublesome cough, after haemop- tysis. At first she expectorated mucus, but at length the sputum presented a puriform appear- ance. She had a degree of fever, and complained of a pain in the thorax, especially on the left side, on which she was unable to lie down. The body wasted, the feet were somewhat cedematous, and principle. I found her under decided hectic fever; and the progress of pulmonary disease had been so exceedingly insidious, that her mother denied the existence of any material degree of cough or dyspnoea. The most distressing circumstance of which the girl now complained, was excessive diarrhoea. After a few days attendance, and directing particular attention to the state of respiration, it was observed that she breathed with difficulty, coughed frequently, and expectorated pus. I discouraged all expectation of recovery. She died October 4th. Dissection. The pleurae were universally and firmly coherent; indeed the union was so firm that on attempting to disconnect them, either the pleura pulmonalis was torn from the lungs, or the pleura costalis from the ribs. The lungs were occupied by tubercles and vomicae; but in some of the lobes there was an irregularly circumscribed, though not encysted consolidation, which exceeded the size of a large walnut, and was converted into a whitish substance. In the centre of most of these structures, there was a very slight fissure in which suppuration appeared to be commencing; but on comparing them with the tubercles in other parts of these organs, I was led to consider them of the nature of medullary sarcoma, or the tubera diffusa : and I suspect the large body described by Valsalva was of a similar character. Some parts of the mucous coat of the intestine were thickened and ulcerated, as is generally found when diarrhoea comes on in an advanced state of consumption; but though the lesion is more particularly manifested upon the mucous surface, it probably originates in the glandular tissue.—Ed.