162 met with the optic nerve of a blind eye more slender than the opposite and also discoloured, from the orbit quite to its origin; and these appear- ances continued on the same side. Other authors have described similar morbid occurrences.* ** Morgagni, xiii. 5—7. * The brief sketch of amaurosis at the head of this section embraces only a reference to some of the structural and functional causes of this imperfection of vision ; and we might add that it is often a sympathetic affection. Mr. Travers in his excellent Synopsis of the Diseases of the Eye, enumerates three species of causes which produce organic amaurosis. “ 1. Lesion, extra- “ vasation of blood, inflammatory deposition upon either of its “ surfaces, and loss of transparency of the retina. 2. Morbid ** growths within the eyeball, dropsy, atrophy, and all such dis- “ organizations as directly oppress or derange the texture of the V retina. 3. The state of apoplexy* hydrocephalus, tumors or " abscesses in the brain, in or upon the optic nerve or its sheath, ** and thickening, extenuation, absorption, or ossification of the “ latter.” He adduces two species of causes which produce functional amaurosis. “ 1. Temporary determination, vascular “ congestion or vacuity, as from visceral or cerebral irritation; “ suppressed or deranged or excessive secretions, as of the liver, “ kidneys, uterus, mammae and testes; various forms of injury “ and disease and sudden translations of remote morbid actions. “ 2. Paralysis idiopathica, suspension or exhaustion of sen- “ sorial power from various constitutional and local causes ; from “ undue excitement or exertion of the visual faculty ; and from “ the deleterious action of poisons on the nervous system, as “ lead, mercury, &c.” p. 140. It is rather a curious circumstance that the optic nerve has been rendered completely insensible for some days, under the continued use of squills, and also of digitalis, conducted by gradual increase to rather a full dose. Amaurotic affections have also arisen subsequent to the venereal disease; and they have been brought on by partial exposure to cold, as for instance by looking out at a window. Amaurosis has likewise occurred as a congenital family imperfection. — Ed.