140 frequently combined with hydrophobia; and Mead and others have reported instances which partook Those lesions of the brain from which an imbecile or a perverted condition of the mental faculties results, is often derived from sympathy, with derangement in the abdominal or thoracic viscera. Dr. Burrows, (an able and interesting writer on this subject,) and other authors, have pointed out this relationship in cases of mania, melancholia, hypochondriasis, and all the other species of the disease. In cases of defect, hebetude, or obliteration of all the faculties of the understanding, various deficiencies of organic structure have been observed. In the bodies of nine idiotic persons, Dr. Cayre found the cerebral and spinal nerves yellow, thin, and wasted; and the great sympathetic, especially its ganglion, was greatly developed. It was, at least, a remarkable coincidence, that in two cases of idiocy examined by Dr. Hastings, the posterior cornua of the lateral ventricles were deficient, so that there was no trace of hippocampus minor. The brain was mor- bidly vascular; the tunica arachnoides was thickened and opaque, and a serous fluid was effused between that membrane and the pia mater and into the ventricles. A man sixty years of age was the subject of one of these dissections : for some months he had griping and slimy stools, and during the last year diarrhoea and tenesmus. Lymph adhered to the surface of the heart, the pleura was highly vascular, and water existed in the thorax and pericardium. A considerable portion of the coats of the stomach was thickened, with central ulceration. That form of derangement which arises after parturition, con- stituting puerperal mania, I believe is always accompanied with a plethoric or inflamed state of the membranes or substance of the brain; and this sometimes exists to the highest degree, occasioning effusion of serum and of coagulable lymph. It is often connected with something wrong in the uterus, but may occur without apparent uterine irritation. Few cases have fallen under my own notice; in two, however, the state of the uterus was unnatural. In one of them this viscus had not contracted so much as might have been expected, and the intestines were inflamed ; in the other, which was the last I examined, the uterus was fully