355 Abscess and tumours in the pericardium. Numerous small abscesses occasionally form in the pericardium as a sequel of inflammation. of the ribs. 1 found that it proceeded from the substance of the lungs in consequence of the pleura pulmonalis having been scratched with the instrument. The lungs were so turgid with fluid, as to protrude from the chest when the sternum was reflected, and before I could proceed to examine the thorax it was necessary to puncture the lungs in several places, and sponge away the fluid. The heart was considerably enlarged, and the pericardium adhered to it almost universally, by means of a thick layer of coagulable lymph. Where they had been a little disunited, the surface of the heart had a granulated appearance. Dr. Prost has given an instance of this adhesion. The pul- sations of the heart were irregular and diffused ; but there was no swelling of the extremities. Dissection. There was some effusion into the head; the sub- stance of the brain was soft and watery; the pericardium was completely adherent to the heart, and identified wdth it At the lower part there existed an osseous lamina about two inches in diameter. The heart was considerably enlarged; and the liver and spleen exceeded their ordinary bulk.—-Med. Chir. J. Mar. 1818. In a case of carditis recorded by Dr. Duncan, jun. the peri- cardium adhered firmly to the heart. It was greatly thickened, and consisted of three laminae—the middle, white and opaque— the outer, unequal in thickness—the inner, vascular, red, and pulpy. The heart was greatly enlarged, and covered with coagulable lymph. With other affections, this attack had been preceded by rheumatism.—Ed. Med. J. Jan. 1816. Corvisart states, from the concurrence of a great number of facts, that the adhesion may take place in three ways. First, from the interposition of lymphatic exudation. Secondly, where the adhesion is intimate and immediate, complete or partial, without a uniting medium. Thirdly, by numerous cellular fila- ments. In the last, and sometimes in the second, the patient is placed in a state of supportable inconvenience; but he conceives that death must inevitably ensue, sooner or later, when the adhesion is complete.—Ed. A a 2