181 parts as liable to injury in many different ways. He therefore adds, “ surditas morbus unus sit, et millecuplus.*— 15. * Morgagni’s observations on perforation of the membrana tympani remind us that this subject was brought under popular notice some years ago by Sir Astley Cooper, with the hope of remedying one of the most frequent and hopeless forms of organic surditas; namely, that arising from defect or obstruction in the Eustachian trumpet. It is, however, to be lamented that the ex- pectations excited by the auspicious nature of the earlier results of this operation, have been disappointed. The numerous experi- ments then made confirm the opinion that the membrane when punctured, and sometimes even when extensively lacerated, is ca- pable of reparation; and indeed the difficulty of circumventing the tendency to closure was one of the greatest which surgeons had to encounter. These experiments also corroborated the opinion that the ossicula may be removed, provided the membrane of the fenestra ovalis remains entire, without the faculty of hearing being permanently and wholly lost. In some cases the benefit obtained by this operation appeared to have been permanent; but this cannot be said of the majority. If, however, the mem- brane of the fenestra is destroyed, not only will the delicate parts be exposed to impressions they are ill adapted to sustain, but by the escape of the fluid of the labyrinth, the auditory nerve will probably lose its perceptive power. The principal causes of obstruction in the Eustachian tube are—the protracted effects of cold—cicatrices from ulcers in scarlet fever, the venereal disease, &c.—extravasation of blood- stricture—and nasal polypi or other tumours pressing on the extremity of the canal. It is not possible here to enumerate all the causes by which the sense of hearing may be vitiated or lost. It is well known that organic impediments to the auditory functions may exist in the external meatus, the tympanum, the labyrinth, and the head; and the functional derangements of the ear are not less various than those which pervert the actions of the eye, and they are generally derived from the same sources. Hearing may be confused by heightened as well as diminished sensibility in the organ. Instances have occurred in which the two ears did not