182 SECTION XIV. Diseases of the Nose. On one occasion I observed that portion of the ethmoid bone called the crista galli so obliquely situated, and so constructed, that it rendered the orifices of the cribriform lamella narrower oil one harmonize. Sauvages relates that a musician whilst blowing his flute heard two distinct sounds at every note. This affection resulted from catarrh and ceased on its termination. At another time he was consulted by a person who, when spoken to, heard two distinct voices, one an octave higher than the other, and not in unison with it. The same author too, describes a curious state of torpitude of the auditory faculty, (which fortunately is not very common,) in which it seems requisite for the ear to be excited by a continued noise before the speech of another person can be distinguished. He reports that a woman whose ears were in this condition, kept a drum in the house, which was constantly beaten whilst she was engaged in conversation. He also mentions the circumstance of a bell-ringer who could only distinguish speech when the bells were ringing; and a third person only during the rattling of wheels. The causes of congenital deafness are various and uncertain. When a preternatural membrane is stretched across the meatus, it will render the individual deaf till it is divided. Sometimes it has been extended over the external orifice so as to occasion the appearance of a deficiency of this tube. Confusion has been observed in the arrangement of the ossicula. Solid matter resembling cheese, was, on one occasion, found by Mr. Cline to occupy the labyrinth, in which consequently no undulation could be produced. It is a circumstance worthy of observation that the predominant affections at the Asylum for Deaf and Dumb in the Kent Road, indicate the prevalence of a strumous diathesis. Whilst the ear is an organ of wonderful complexity, nothing can be more admirable than its mechanism. It would, indeed, be an insult to the Deity to conceive that it is redundantly com- plex, or that its efficiency and adaptation are at all compromised by the perfectly beautiful arrangement of its structures.—Ed.