427 Palpitation of the heart. That inordinate action of the heart which con- stitutes palpitation, may arise from disease in the had evidently this sovereign in view when he glanced at the death of “ a most powerful monarch,” xxvii. 10. but he has erroneously reported it to have been an oblong fissure in the left ventricle. A case has been related by Dr. Fischer, in which it was believed, that, without any pre-existing disease, the left ventricle was ruptured by the concurrent influence of cold, vomiting, spasm, fatigue, and singing, with a mental affection. The patient was an elderly gentleman; and on the 16th of October he was seized with a paroxysm of pain, which he supposed to be cramp in the stomach. The paroxysms recurred till the 20th, when he died. Two or three pounds of blood were found in the pericardium, and a rupture was discovered in the aortic ventricle. Med. Repos. May, 1819. Several cases of ruptured heart have been published by Portal and other anatomists. They concur to show that it most fre- quently happens to the left ventricle, and, generally, in conse- quence of disease in or about the mouth of the aorta. Many of these cases prove that the laceration in the heart wras not preceded by any obvious change in the muscular structure. In five instances published by Dr. Rostal, (four of which, if not all, occurred to women upwards of seventy) the rupture was in the left ventricle. In three of them the ventriculo-aortic orifice w as ossified; in the fourth the aorta itself had undergone this change, but in none of these had there existed any previous change of structure in the heart. The fifth case confirms what lias been already stated by Morgagni, that these injuries do not necessarily prove fatal immediately, even when the heart is completely perforated; and indeed it is sometimes susceptible of cure. The following are the particulars of this case. A woman seventy-one years of age, had experienced severe pain in the left thoracic region, and in the epigastrum, for fifteen years. Reclination induced a sense of suffocation; she had fre^ quent syncope, violent palpitation, startings when asleep, inor- dinate appetite, and extreme sensibility. Dissection. The pericardium adhered to the heart by means