321 as less was transmitted through the lower in con- sequence of its being obstructed by inflammation. Some of the more minute vessels had ruptured into the air-cells, and imparted the rosy hue to the expectorated matter.*—Morgagni, xx. 18. It cannot be doubted that whatever compresses the cells of the lungs, or renders them unyielding, must be injurious to respiration. Now these cells are too much compressed whenever blood distends the vessels distributed around them, and this effect may be produced by its superabundance, as hap- pens to plethoric persons, in whom dyspnoea is particularly observable when they walk faster than their usual pace, and thus accelerate the circulation. The blood may produce this effect, also, from its being rarified, as in ardent fevers ; or the same con- sequence may arise from any cause of obstruction * Though it is stated that inflammation occupied one portion of the left lung, I suspect that the inference was drawn merely from vascular plenitude. Whether this was really the case or not cannot be determined; but I believe that congestion often exists without being attended by inflammatory action. Probably they were cases of this nature to which Orfila alluded when he said that there were cases of chronic and even of acute pneumonia, without either cough, or expectoration, or fever, when the patients do not even complain of breathing with any great degree of difficulty. The diagnosis in such cases, he says, “ can only be established with certainty by the concurrence of the two following signs: first, the impossibility of making deep inspira- tions ; and secondly, the pain of the breast.” Singly he conceives these signs will be of no avail. The cases which have fallen under my notice have been indicated by a sense of oppression at the chest, by cough, and by mucous and bloody expectoration, and a turgid but rather full pulse, without fever. They were protracted in duration, but ultimately removed, and perfect health was regained.—Ed. Y