20 sometimes enlarged in the transverse, rather than in the longitudinal direction ; a preparation of this kind of hydrocephalic monstrosity was in Mor- gagni’s possession. * In a foetus which Morgagni dissected at Forli, there was no trace of cerebrum, cerebellum, or medulla oblongata; and merely a thin and mem- braneous rudiment of the spinal marrow, t Instances are not wanting in which the fluid was deposited between the dura mater and cranium; between the membranes; and beneath the pia * The extent to which the brain may become extenuated in this form of hydrocephalus, and yet the intellectual faculties be retained, has often excited astonishment. The head has been found to contain twenty-four pints of fluid; and life has been protracted many years. A case is recorded by Michaelis in which it continued for twenty-nine years, with natural pupil, good appetite, and sound memory. An extraordinary instance has recently been afforded in a child from Hanover, jet: eleven years and six months, who is carried about in a box for public exhi- bition. The head gradually enlarged from the age of eight months; the circumference above the ears is thirty-five inches; over the vertex and under the chin, thirty-nine inches; the bones of the lower and upper extremities are twisted from rachitis. Vision and hearing are perfect; the teeth have disappeared; the functions are natural, and the appetite voracious; it understands perfectly what is said, but has never been able to articulate. It has scarcely ever slept. Upon feeling the head, it was evident that the fluid was immediately beneath the integuments. The frontal and occipital bones were united by a bony ridge. The progress of ossification in these heads is sometimes very curious from the numerous bony patches distributed upon the extended membrane.—Ed. t Morgagni seems to have entertained the idea that these acephalous foetuses had previously been hydrocephalic, an opinion for w hich there does not appear adequate authority.—Ed.