304 respiration, in consequence of exposure to cold during the menstrual period. The pain was fixed organic mischief. He had hitherto subsisted on the most innu- tritions fluids, and still only partook of liquid aliment. In the middle of the day the evacuations were rather bloody, and exhaled a cadaverous odour. Though he was evidently in an almost hopeless state, his mind, naturally energetic, was buoyed up from an impression that he had experienced essential benefit since the intestinal evacuations. On the fourth day after the relapse, (March 13), he reported himself conscious of increased weakness, but he had less pain, and could make a deep inspiration, and fully expand the chest without the least impediment. All the uneasiness experienced in this effort arose from some tenderness of the abdomen. He believed himself to be perfectly relieved from the thoracic affec- tion,—and anticipated early restoration to health. At this time I felt persuaded that so much organic lesion had taken place that his recovery was utterly impossible; and as he was at the head of a large and interesting family, and was con- nected with an extensive and precarious mercantile concern, it was deemed expedient to acquaint him with the circumstances in which he really stood; and I only advert to this topic inasmuch as it elucidates the state of his bodily feelings. He was a man who had lived in habitual thoughtfulness of death and preparation for a future world; consequently though surprised when I candidly informed him of the importance of arranging his affairs, on account of his perilous situation, he was not alarmed, but received the communication with grateful fortitude, and immediately pre- pared to make the necessary adjustment. Although the inter- view with his parents, his wife, his children, and domestics, had been of the most affectionate character, I found his mind perfectly tranquil in the evening. The evacuations from the bowels were of a better colour, and still frequent. He felt so comparatively well, however, as almost to question the truth of the prognostic as to the fatal issue; nevertheless whilst we were assiduously employing every means which offered the least prospect of benefit, he waited the result with tranquillity. On the 14th of March it was evident that the period of