290 rough and unequal. The circumjacent fleshy sub- stance was in a natural state. The left auricle was considerably elongated, and numerous bony laminae were discovered within the coats of the aorta. *—Morgagni, xxi. 4. The dilatation of the vessels, and perhaps also the cohesion of the pleurae, may be ascribed to the peripneumony. For in consequence of the pulmo- nary circulation being impeded by repeated attacks of inflammation, the blood-vessels would be ex- ceedingly liable to distension, t * The tubercle on the heart seems to have been the remains of an hydatid similar to those with which Morgagni compared it. A case of hydatid in the substance of the heart by Mr. Price, is published in Vol. XI. of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. The subject was a boy ten years old, who was vivacious and playful, and had never complained of langour or of any difficulty of respiration; but he died suddenly. A portion of the pericar- dium adhered to the heart, and this membraneous bag contained about two ounces of a dark-coloured fluid. In the muscular substance of the heart a large hydatid existed.—Ed. f Membraniform concretions, or false membranes as they have been termed, have been frequently mentioned in the preceding cases as a result of inflammation, and the consequences of this deposition are often highly momentous; indeed the preservation of an important organ will frequently depend upon the possibility of counteracting this process. Portal has shown that they have riot only been found in persons who died of inflammation, more or less acute, in cases of the exanthemata, and in numerous other diseases, but that they have been often seen where there had been no sensible disease. He describes them as composed of pellicles of different thicknesses, applied against one another, and separable, with more or less facility, by the scalpel or by maceration. They vary in density and smoothness; admit of different degrees of extension; exhibit no trace of vascularity; and have been found of a white, grey, or brown colour. They form upon serous membranes; as the arachnoid, the pia mater, the internal surface of the pericardium.