303 menstruated less freely tlian usual, was attacked with a piercing pain in the thorax, and difficulty of day febrile symptoms recurred, accompanied with some wander- ing pains : he passed a distressing night, and early the following morning my attendance was requested. He complained of almost intolerable pain in the loins, extending thence to the thorax, and especially through the region of the diaphragm, but rather on the right side. His respiration appeared to be carried on without the action of this septum. He had not evacuated the bowels for twenty-four hours; consequently there was some abdominal intumescence, but no tenderness. He experienced a sense of violent constriction at the chest; the pulse was a hundred and twenty; and the tongue yellowish. I took from him twenty ounces of blood, and instituted, both in relation to diet and medicine, a strictly antiphlogistic plan. In the evening Dr. Uwins was associated with me in attendance, and he most strenuously exerted both his skill and kindness to avert the catastrophe which awaited the patient. We had the satisfaction to find the violence of the symptoms a little abated: the celerity of the pulse had diminished, and the acuteness of pain was blunted, but there had been no alvine excretion. We agreed to repeat the bleeding, and to persevere with purgations, aided by enemata. The ensuing morning we were informed that the pain continued to abate, but the tongue was flocculent and very dark coloured: the abdomen was tumid, and communicated to the patient the sensation of extreme fulness. He could scarcely respire; his countenance was deeply distressed; the angles of the mouth were depressed; and the pulse was a hundred and twenty. None of the means resorted to having proved effectual to open the bowels, we agreed to administer elaterium. He took, in divided doses, three quarters of a grain of Dr. Clutterbuck’s preparation of that medicine. A few hours subsequent to taking the first dose, some extremely dark and offensive stools were voided; and between this time and our visit the following day, the bowels had been evacuated copiously: the evacuations were dark and bilious, the tongue was brown, the pulse was very small and weak, the eyes were sunk, and the countenance evinced that peculiar expression of deep solicitude so characteristic of serious