advice Ramazzini sought by letter from the commencement of the disease.* * Aneurisms have been divided by systematic writers into three species; namely, true, spurious, and mixed. By the first appel- lation is understood a dilatation of all the coats of an artery ; by the second those cases are referred to, in which one of the coats are ruptured, while the other coats, or only the cellular one, have undergone dilatation; the term mixed is applied to that variety in which the coats of the vessel are dilated to a certain extent, and, subsequently, by their destruction, the true aneurism was converted into the spurious. Corvisart entertained the opinion that the greater number of aneurisms of the aorta appertain to the first species, though some are nearly allied to the false aneurisms. Scarpa, however, appears to have held the opinion, that aneurism is always produced by a destruction of the coats of the artery; and Mr. Hodgson, who, having rendered himself familiar with the labours of his predecessors in this important track of pathological inquiry, greatly added to that knowledge by examining a multitude of preparations of this disease ; and he acknowledges that a great proportion were formed in the manner described by Scarpa, namely, by a destruction of the internal and middle coats of the artery, in consequence of their rupture, and the expansion of the external or cellular coat into a sac. The destruction of these coats by ulceration is a less frequent cause of aneurism. “ When the internal coat,” says Mr. Hodgson, “ has undergone the steatomatous and cartilaginous thickenings, “ or when calcareous matter is deposited in its substance, it “ frequently cracks and hangs in scales into the cavity of the “ vessel. The disease is sometimes so extensive, that the middle “ coat becomes involved in it; the fissure extends throughout ** its substance* and the fibres are readily extended by the “ impulse of the circulation. The blood thus comes in contact “ with the external coat which is dilated into a sac, in the same “ manner as when the internal and middle coats are destroyed by f< ulceration.” It is a curious fact, that the sudden laceration of the internal and middle coats of a healthy artery, or the forcible peeling off of the external coat, so far from being followed by aneurism, G g 2