302 Case 8. Thickening of the pleura. A servant maid nineteen years of age, of a plethoric habit, and who for three months had lymph which had been effused, and the manner in which it was combined with the serous fluid. In the night of March 7th, 1820, I was called a few miles into the country to see Mr. Bates, a gentleman about 36 years of age, whom I found exceedingly ill, and was informed that on entering the coach to return home from London the preceding day, he was seized with rigors, on which intense heat supervened. His pulse was extremely rapid and firm, and his mind had been a little confused; but he was perfectly rational when I saw him. He complained of violent pain at the chest, and aching of his limbs : his countenance and general appearance bespoke a most formi- dable attack of disease. I bled him copiously, administered a free dose of hydrargyri submurias, and prescribed a periodical dose of a saline purgative. On the following morning I found his situation greatly ameli- orated, but his pulse was rather quick; and he had some erratic pains in the limbs and joints. He had no rigors, and the bowels had been plentifully opened. The general directions were to live abstemiously, and to keep the bowels in gentle action by the aperient medicine. On the third day from the attack he felt nearly well. I found him down stairs; he had been walking out a little, and informed me that he purposed to be in town for an hour on the morrow. Though I could not but be highly gratified with my friend’s rapid and decisive amendment, yet the severity of the onset, and the commotion through the whole system which immediately resulted, left upon me a deep impression that though the storm was hushed, the subject assailed was still in jeopardy. Many cautions were given, but as he thought his recovery complete, and as urgent business demanded his presence, I agreed to wait his arrival in town for our next interview. Perfect, however, as was this intermission, it proved to be only the prelude to a more painful and ultimately fatal attack. On the evening of the same