127 turgescence even pervaded the lining membrane of the ventricles, and the medullary substance itself. When the commencement of the spinal marrow was lightly compressed, blood oozed from it, a circumstance which is rarely seen. Both the lateral ventricles abounded with a limpid fluid, and the choroid plexuses were florid. The fornix and the crura of the medulla oblongata were of a soft texture. The lungs appeared as if they were rather swollen; the heart did not contain any blood ; but this circumstance might have happened in consequence of its having flowed through the vessels divided below the diaphragm, especially as the blood was fluid.*—Morgagni, lxii. 5. * In reference to traumatic trismus, Larry in his Memoirs of Military Surgery says “ on opening the bodies of such as died “ of trismus, I found the pharynx and oesophagus considerably “ constricted; their internal membrane red, inflamed, and covered “ with a viscous humour of a reddish colour.” The translator of Larry’s work subjoins a note in which he describes some extraordinary appearances in the bodies of persons who died of tetanus in the Island of Barbadoes, under his own observation* “ The stomach and whole extent of the alimentary canal down to “ the rectum contained an abundance of a viscid, tenacious, “ yellow matter, resembling liquid gamboge, which, on being “ exposed to the air, immediately effervesced, and continued to li foam for the space of a minute. This matter, very different “ from any secretion or excretion of the human body, was found “ more or less in all subjects who died of tetanus.” Numerous and interesting facts have lately been brought for- ward which tend to show that disease in the medulla spinalis, or its membranes, is a very frequent cause of tetanus and other spasmodic diseases, and the most prevailing departures from the natural state are inflammation, increased plethora of vessels, and serous deposition. The membranes of this medullary chord have been occupied by white laminae in tetanic cases, but