139 variety in the appearances discovered on dissec- tion. Maniacal or melancholic symptoms are the cases were unusually developed in size and number. In reference to the vascular system of the encephalon the almost uniform character was that of turgescence, and dilatation of vessels was not a rare occurrence; but in one individual the en- cephalon was nearly destitute of blood. The state of the abdo- minal viscera is only mentioned in two cases, when it was natural. Intellectual derangement has been known to arise from spiculae of bone in the membranes of the brain. There has also been a gradual abolition of the mental faculties from tumours pressing upon this organ. An extraordinary instance of this from fungus haematodes developed in the substance of the brain and adhering to the internal surface of the dura mater is related in the Med. Ch. J. for Oct. 1816. In a man, fifty years of age, who first became the subject of mental derangement and then of hemiplegia. Dr. Duncan, jun. has related that the whole of the right hemisphere of the brain was softer than the left, but the anterior and middle lobes were in a morbid and pulpy state. The surface of the right thalamus nervi optici was covered by a soft pulpy mass, which was easily removable. The left ventricle contained some fluid ; the choroid plexus was distended; and some vessels ramifying upon the parietes of the ventricle were very much injected with blood. Ed. Med. J. No. 68. M. Rostal has devoted some attention to a state of the brain which perhaps corresponded with that described by Dr. Duncan, and has published eight cases under the title “ Recherches sur une Maladie encore peu connue qui a re^ue le nom de Ramollisse- ment du cerveau.” The symptoms were fixed pain in the head, vertigo, dulness of intellect, treacherousness of memory, and confusion of ideas. The patient becomes morose, peevish, and indifferent to external objects. He has a tendency to sleep, creeping sensations, numbness, often dimness of sight, some- times delirium, mental alienation, febrile symptoms with extreme agitation, and senile demency. The functions of other organs presented no constancy of symptoms. Nouveau Journ. de Med. Sept. 1820.