153 SECTION XL Aphonia and Paraphonia. A loss of voice or a depraved state of that faculty, often arises from disease in the larynx, the propagated in the course of circulation. I may elucidate this by referring to a case related by Mr. Webster. A man was bit in the hand July 21st. He never entirely lost the sensation of pain in the part. On the 16th of August the pain became more severe, gradually extended up the arm to the shoulder and breast, and on the 19th the arm was immoveable. He was first visited by Mr. W. on the following day. The pain was excruciating, small cicatrices of a red colour were observable on the hand; and the man was unquestionably labouring under hydrophobia. Though comparatively of rare occurrence, there have been instances in which after complete cicatrization, and the entire cessation of excitement, the scars have again become inflamed, and the in- flammation has been accompanied with itching and pricking sensations. In the generality of cases the wound has completely healed, and has ceased to awaken the least attention; and though sometimes a degree of redness comes on, in most cases there is no such premonitory token, or it is so slight as to elude obser- vation. To this point, however, great attention ought still to be directed, for were it possible to determine only the frequent occurrence of this intimation, some hope may be entertained, that by timely interposition the horrible distress, and the melan- choly catastrophe which otherwise await the unfortunate indi- vidual may after all be averted. On examination after death, no uniformity has been observed in the morbid appearances. In most cases there are striking marks of cerebral congestion; the vessels are loaded—indeed sometimes gorged with blood. The tunica arachnoides has oc- casionally been inflamed and thickened, and a redundance of serum has been found pervading the surface of the brain and distending the ventricles; and bubbles of air have been found blended with it. The structure of the brain is often exceedingly firm. The mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea and bronchia.