367 happened but seldom in the trunk of the aorta, in consequence of the thickness of its parietes. From the year 1670 they ceased to be considered as rare occurrences; and we have now acquired such familiarity with the disease, from the consideration of its causes and symptoms, that we believe it may be distinguished even when very small, and entirely concealed within the thorax. Malpighi, with whom I was partly contemporary, was warranted in accounting the knowledge of dilatation of the aorta amongst the improvements of his age.* Morgagni, xvii. 1,4. * An improved state of pathological discrimination has led morbid anatomists to distinguish the dilatations of the heart into active and passive. Some of Morgagni’s cases possess charac- teristic marks of one or the other of these conditions, but in reference to the greater part of them I thought it best to leave this point undetermined. Indeed it will not only be found that some obscurity hangs over cases written antecedent to the nicer discriminations of advancing science, but instances still arise, in which neither the symptoms, nor the appearances after death, so precisely define the quality of the dilatation, that no hesitation shall be felt in deciding to which species they appertain. In the active dilatation Corvisart observes, that the heart is dilated, its parietes are thickened, and the force of its action is increased ; and in the passive form there is evident dilatation, but with diminished thickness of the parietes, and a diminution in the force of action of the organ. The former of these species of aneurismal dilatation he believes may be occasioned by a disproportionate narrowness of the caliber of the vessels, so that the muscular fibres of the heart will be required to drive forwards too great a column of blood through the narrow channels. The vessels being inadequate to admit this quantity, cannot, at first, sufficiently dilate them- selves. They will therefore oppose the progression of the fluid, which will necessarily react upon the agent which impels it.