51 between the lobes of the cerebrum and into the ventricles. The vessels within the cranium sometimes be- come greatly dilated. In a man who died from a fall, the right vertebral artery, within the cranium, was four times as wide as the left—the vessels of the dura mater in general were turgid with blood. * * It has of late been suggested that a more immediate relation- ship than had generally been supposed exists between apoplexy and active dilatation of the left ventricle of the heart; my own experience, however, has not corroborated this opinion. In com- mon with others I have found the heart enlarged; and whenever it acts with impetuosity, as is not unfrequently the case under these circumstances, it cannot be questioned that the hazard of an apoplectic attack will be proportionately increased. Dr. Cheyne, in the Dublin Hospital Reports, has related a case of apoplexy in which the fleshy part of the heart was converted into fat. Whatever tends to excite unnatural impetus of circulation; or to occasion undue determination of blood to the head, as appears to happen from protracted mental exercises, and from other affections of the nervous system, will have a tendency to induce a state of cerebral turgescence. Although not an advocate of the exclusive agency of the digestive organs in the production of disease, I believe that derangement in their functions will often occasion the state of the nervous system here alluded to. At first perhaps the affection of the head is scarcely perceptible—the mind is dejected—the temper irascible—the head at length begins to ache, and the arteries to throb—an unexpected though slight concussion of the body seems to shake and distress the encepha- lon—there is frequent vertigo—and unless the disease be counter- acted, apoplexy will not be an improbable consequence. I have known several cases of this nature, which bleeding, though tem- porarily mitigating the disorder, and removing from time to time the imminently threatening symptoms, did not cure, or even permanently relieve. Occasional blood-letting will perhaps be necessary, but it must be combined with assiduous attention to E 2 *