194 Case 2. The cranium denuded, and the membranes thickened and purulent. A man nearly sixty years of age received a blow with a stick on the upper part of the left temple. head and the vessels are so injured that circulation cannot be carried on, the pericranium has a tendency to separate from the external surface of the bones, and the dura mater from the inner, and the latter of these membranes soon becomes inflamed, and probably suppurates, ulcerates, or sloughs: and the ultimate consequence is a train of perilous symptoms, and frequently death itself. “ The effect of this kind of violence is frequently confined to “ the vessels connecting the dura mater with the cranium, in “ which case the matter is exterior to the membrane; but it “ sometimes happens that, by the force either of the stroke or “ of the concussion, the vessels which pass between and connect “ the two meninges are injured 'in the same manner; in which ** case the matter formed in consequence of such violence is “ found on the surface of the brain, or between the pia and “ dura mater as well as on the surface of the latter; or perhaps ** in all these situations at the same time." “ The symptoms “ attending an inflamed or sloughy state of the membranes in “ consequence of external violence are very different from “ those of extravasation of blood, or commotion in the me- “ dullary substance of the brain. They are all of the febrile “ kind, and never at first imply any unnatural pressure; such are “ pain in the head, restlessness, want of sleep, frequent and hard “ pulse, hot and dry skin, flushed countenance, inflamed eyes, “ nausea, vomiting, rigor; and towards the end, convulsion and “ delirium. And none of these appear at first, that is, immediately “ after the accident; seldom until some days are past.” Whilst these processes are going on in the membraneous tissues, the bone itself undergoes a visible alteration, and deviates widely from its natural colour. The preceding observations, quoted from Pott, apply to cases where there was not even an external wound; and when there had been a solution of continuity, in which suppu- ration and incarnation were advancing satisfactorily, he says.