SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 832 disease, as tbickening or adhesion, or of any traumatic origin, ns a blow or strain. They arise spontaneously, as it were, and, after a while, as capriciously cease; and are associated with other manifesta- tions of hysteric constitutional disease. Some such cases are graphic- ally told by Mr. Skey in his Lectures on this subject. The causes of these contractions, and resulting deformities, are either spasmodic or paralytic conditions; and as depending on some injury or disease affecting the nervous system peripherally or centrally. If an hysterical affection, the search for any locally causative condition will often be in vain. Its evil origin lies deeper, as a constitutional malady, the offspring perhaps of an hereditary predisposition, or of a vicious social education. The prominent elements of hysteria—general debility and muscular irritability—are, however, not unfrequently associated with some disordered function of the uterus, or of the digestive organs; in males especially, hysteria being manifested as a rare expression of the bilious or hypochondriacal temperament. • Treatvient must have reference, primarily, to removal of the cause of contraction or paralysis, if possible. Hysterical contractions— rarely admitting of any such radically curative treatment—may per- haps be overcome by remedial measures of a medicinal and hygienic character. A course of tonics and anti-spasmodics—iron and quinine, in their various preparations; the sulphate of copper or zinc; nitrate of silver; the preparations of valerian, assafoetida, or ether, sulphuric ether in particular—may prove effectual in different cases; but any s«ch treatment must be accompanied and reinforced by the judicious exercise of body and mind, aided by the salutary influence of pure air and sea-bathing, when the latter can be borne. The uterine and digestive functions must be regulated by appropriate treatment. Topical applications, of a sedative character, to allay pain and spasm, as by opiate ointment or the hypodermic injection of morphia, the ointments of belladonna or aconite, seldom afford more than temporary relief. The inhalation of chloroform has the same effect; but its relaxative influence is of value chiefly-in the examination of the part affected, to .determine the nature of the contraction. The state of contraction, as an effect, may be overcome mechanically; liy manipulations, or by division of the contracted muscle or muscles, or their tendons—the operation of tenotomy; followed, in either case, by the use of retentive appliances. The choice of these two procedures will be determined by the kind and degree of motion to be regained in the part, and by the practicability of aiding recovery by means of any apparatus. Thus, according to Dr. Little's experience, the biceps at the bend of the elbow, the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris close to the wrist, and the pronator radii teres at its muscular portion, have been severally divided in different cases ; but the result- ing benefit of these procedures has been proportionate to the after- manipulations, passive exercises, and painstaking education of the enfeebled non-conti-acted extensors. The fingers derive little benefit from any limited degree of the simple movements of flexion and ex- tension, nor can they be assisted by any known form of mechanism. Contraction of the Fingers, as depending on the palmar fascia, should be distinguished from contraction of nervo-niuscular origin. The pathological condition was discovered, on dissection, by Dupnytren and Goyrand.