FRACTURE OF THE SCAPULA. 625 attempting to raise the arm. Bony union is rare; sometimes even a false-joint forms. (A. Cooper.) (4.) The Coracoid Process is sometimes knocked off ; it will be drawn downwards by the biceps and coraco-brachialis muscles, and in- wards also by tbe pectoralis minor. (See Fig. 216.) The Signs are partly obscure ; no particular alteration in the shape of the shoulder, though the apex of the coracoid process can be felt lower than on the sound side; but mobility of the fragment, with pos- sibly crepitus, are very perceptible on fixing the scapula and moving the arm backwards and forwards. Fibrous union is not uncommon. Double fracture of the acromion and coracoid processes occurred in one remarkable case, with fracture also of the body of the scapula, passing through the spine and supra-spinous fossa, posteriorly. This extensive injury was produced by direct violence,—the wheel of a dust cart crushing the shoulder. (King's Coll. Mus., 1170-2.) See also "Path. Trans.," 1869, vol. xx., p. 270. (5.) The Neck of the scapula—beyond the root of the coracoid process—is occasionally broken off carrying with it the glenoid cavity (Fig. 215), and coracoid process, and, perhaps, the acromion, with the Fig. 216. Fig. 217. adjoining portion of the spine of the scapula (Fig. 217), which together fall downwards and inwards by the weight of the extremity. Fracture of the anatomical neck alone—exclusive of the coracoid process— perhaps never occurs ; not a single specimen of such fracture existing in the museums of the London Hospitals (South), nor in any of the American cabinets (Hamilton). The coraco-clavicular and coraco- acromial ligaments may be more or less ruptured, thus allowing of different degrees of displacement. The Siq ns are marked flattening and dropping of the shoulder, a depression under the acromion, and a tumour in the axilla; thus far simulating dislocation downwards into the axilla. But mobility, and crepitus of this apparent head of the humerus, can be readily discovered by placing the hand on the shoulder, with the forefinger resting on the coracoid process, and rotating the arm; the crepitus being transmitted through that process, which still remains uninjured in its connection with the glenoid cavity, and the process moving with the humerus, in- stead of remaining fixed on the scapula, supported by the other hand. Moreover, the deformity of the shoulder disappears, and returns, as the 2 s