GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 112 Farre—a lady was affected furiously, in a few hours, by two grains of calomel; prescribed as a purgative witb some cathartic extmct. She died at the end of two years, worn out, and having lost portions of the jaw by necrosis. Intense salivation is best relieved by the application of a few leeches to the swollen and painful glands. Smearing the gums with powdered tannin, will probably reduce their engorged con- dition, and give additional comfort. Gargling the mouth with weak brandy-and-water is another resource, not unfrequently successful in relieving the distress. Chlorate of potash, taken internally, is spoken of very favourably by Herpin, M. Ricord, M. A. Fournier, and Mr. Simon, as far as his trials of it have gone. The doses given were commonly ninety grains during the day ; and it is expressly stated, that, while the inflammation of the mouth was thus effectually cured, the therapeutical influence of the mercury was in no degree diminished. On the other hand, some persons are very difficult to salivate. Such cases are not uncommon, and unfortunately they seem most apt to occur when the controlling agency of mercury is most urgently required. In syphilitic cases of obstinate resistance to mercurialism, Mr. Simon finds that this insusceptibility often gives way, if tartarized antimony be administered in conjunction for a day or two ; a half-grain dose, and then a few quarter-grain doses at eight-hour intervals. Stimulants.—Wine, brandy, ammonia, or other stimulants, are necessary, whenever inflammatory fever has passed into a state of general depression and exhaustion, the natural sequence of nervous and vascular excitement. Requisite, therefore, as stimulants may be in proportion to the weakness manifested at even an early period, they are sure to become indispensable as the fever itself subsides. And on account of the local condition also, stimulants may be appro- priate. When, in the course of inflammation, productiveness pre- dominates, in the shape of effusion and suppuration, it will be necessary to support the circulation under the demand then made; and when destructiveness prevails, it will be even more imperative to sustain all the vital powers under the influence of poisonous matters absorbed in the course of suppuration, pyasmia, ulceration, or sloughing. The "genuine effects of stimulation"are thus generally emunerated by Dr. Anstie, who has made this the subject of elaborate inquiry; but who, it must he confessed, has arrived at conclusions opposed for the most part to those of previous authors, and which are open to further clinical investigation. The effects observed are eight in number: " relief of pain; removal of muscular spasm, tremor, or convulsion; reduction of undue frequency of the circulation; reduction of excessive secretion; removal of general debility, or of special fatigue of the muscles, brain, or digestive organs ; removal of delirium, or maniacal excitement, and production of healthy sleep ; support of the organism in the absence of ordinary food; local increase of nutrition where this is deficient." In regard to one of these effects, at least—"reduction of undue frequency of the circulation"—this view of the action of stimulants would be at variance with the known efficacy of administering them for the exhaustion consequent on inflammatory fever. The kind and quantity of stimulant or stimulants which should be