GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 104 notice, is that state of the vascular system which, often designated " vascular tension," is characterized by a hard pulse. Both these conditions—forcible action of the heart and vascular tension—are alike diminished by general bleeding; the pulse becoming weaker, slower, perhaps more regular, and softer. The propriety of having recourse to this reducing measure should therefore be determined and regulated by reference to the state of the general circulation, as indicated by the characters of the pulse in respect to its force and hardness. But the necessity for blood-letting is proportionate also to the physiological importance of the organ affected, which might otherwise be permanently damaged by the structural results of inflammation ; and the urgency on this ground will be indicated by the functional disturbance which the organ itself suffers, and induces by its functional relation to other organs. These conditions of organic significance are not accompanied with a corre- sponding tolerance of blood-letting. For example, they co-exist in pneumonia, especially double pneumonia; the lungs being highly important organs functionally, dyspnoea, and general functional dis- turbance thence arises. Yet in this disease the tolerance of blood- letting is thirty ounces, as shown by the table, or only double that of health, and less by twenty ounces than that of the highest range in the list. The effects of blood-letting are more than moruentary. This should always be remembered in considering the necessity for producing a powerful and persistent impression on the general circulation. Such impression can be made in either of two ways; the one or the other having a salutary tendency, according to the previous duration of the inflammation. Recent inflammation may be arrested by the loss of a moderate quantity of blood, suddenly—i.e., through a large orifice or from both arms at the same time, and the patient being placed in the sitting posture, so as to induce syncope. Inflammation of a few days' duration will be more surely brought to a termination by the loss of a larger quantity of blood, gradually; the bandage above the orifice in the vein being loosened, and the patient placed in the recumbent position to avert the tendency to syncope. Or venesection may be repeated from time to time, according to the symptoms; thereby renewing and further maintaining the impression originally made on the circulation. The advantage of gradual over sudden loss of blood, in inflammation of some duration, is evinced by the fact that, if the first impression be thus maintained, it is found unnecessary to repeat it. Local blood-letting, by means of leeches, or cupping, will prove sufficient subsequently, in most cases; and advantageously so, by directly affecting the inflamed part without powerfully and persistently influencing the system. And it should never be foi-gotten, that the permanency of systemic impression is directly proportionate to the quantity of blood lost. Nutrition is reduced throughout the body, and any process of reparation may fail. Probably the vital injury of excessive blood-letting or of such hcBmorrhage accidentally, is never quite recovered from. Venesection or Phlebotomy might be effected by opening any vem of sufficient size to admit of "a free flow of blood; but the vein usually