RHEUiMATISM AND GOUT. 248 in this hot lotion is wrapped round tlic inflamed ;joinl.s, and thoii encased with thin gufcta-peroha. Chronic rliorunatisni, attondod witli thickening and stiffness of the joints and faHcim, may bo Honiowhat ameliorated by warm baths, vaponr batlis, shampoo!tig, or rriciliioriH. The Turkish bath will thus prove bonoiiuial, provided there bo no heart affection of consequence. Gout. GrOUT is a blood-disease allied to rheumatism, but differing in its pathology and treatment. General Symptoms and Diagnosis.—This disease is manifoHiod l)y an inflammation affecting the joints, very commonly the first joint, or ball, of the great toe. Commencing, usually, when the individual about to suffer has retired to rest, and has enjoyed some hours perhaps of sloop, ho is awoke with fixed pain in one of his feet,—mostly, as 1. liavo snid, in the ball of tho (jreat toe, but sometimes affecting the heel, instep, or aiiklo. With this pain, cold shivering is generally experienced, succoedcd by heat, as the pain, boring, grinding, and wrenching, fastens more and yet more firmly on the spot of its election. "Place your joint in a vice," said a witty Frenchman, "and screw the instrument up until you can endure it no longer. That will represent rheumatism. 'I'lion give another twist, and you will somewhat realize gout." The skin over this part is acutely tender, red, tense, and shilling, encircled by some Oidoma, and by converging turgid veins. MucVi restlessness and excitement supervene. In vain the sufferer seeks to relieve himKolf of the weight of his bedclothes upon the part inflamed ; in vain he shifts his foot from place to place in search of a cool and easy position, 'i'he pain, T-emorKO- less, grapples yet more tightly. At length, in the course of twenty- four hours or so, it loosens its hold gradually, perhaps suddenly. 'J'he sleepless excitement also then subsides, and the victim enjoys some temporary repose. He wakes again to undergo punishment. The toe-screw is reapplied, it may be with a turn or two less; and day by day a slighter punishment is inflicted, until at lengtli the full penalty has been paid. The cuticle peels off the part affected, for gouty in- flammation ends by resolution; it never terminates by tho effusion of plastic lymph, suppuration, or gangrene. In these respects, this in- flammation and that of rheumatism are similar. Eventually, after frequent attacks of gouty inflammation, the cellular texture around the joint usually becomes pervaded with a deposit of urate of soda, forming concretions, at first pull^aiceous, then "chalk-stones," of perhaps considerable size. The nodular fingers and toes of chronic goat is a matter of common observation. The skin over these nodules being stretched, at length breaks, and the chalky concretions are laid bare. Urate of soda has been found infiltrsiting all the textures of one or several joints, in synovial membrane, cartilage, the heads of bone, and ligaments; and usurping their plai;e, the articulations are irreparably destroyed. Premonitory symptoms refer to the functions of the «tf;mar;h and kidneys, more especially. Dyf-pepsia, denoted by inappetency, <mjeta^ tions, heartburn, and acidity of the saliva; together with Hcanty urine, cl^r, high-coloured, and containing less than the average anionnt of uric acid or none at all; these symptoms portend a fit of the gout. An