677 OSTEITIS DEFOEMANS. " In its earlier periods, and sometimes tlirough all its course, the disease is attended with pains in the affected bones, pains widely- various in severity and variously described as rheu- matic, gouty, or neuralgic, not especially nocturnal or periodical. It is not attended with fever. No characteristic conditions of urine or f ^ces have been found in it. It is not associated with any consti- tutional disease, nnless it be cancer. "Thebones examined after death show the con- sequences of an inflammation afEecting, in the skull, the whole thickness, in the long bones chiefly the compact structure of their walls, and not only the walls of their shafts, but in a very characteristic manner those of their articular surfaces. " The changes of structure produ.ced in the earliest periods of the disease have not yet been observed ; but it may be believed that they are in- flammatory, for the softening is associated with enlargement, with excessive production of imper- fectly developed structures, and with increased blood-supply. "Whether inflammation, in any degree, continues to the last, or whether, after many years of progress, any reparative changes ensue, after the manner of a so-called consecutive hardening, is nncertain." Causes.—Inflammation of bone usually results from external violence or from exposure to cold or damp; but it arises under the influence of some predisposing constitutional condition of disease. These predisposing causes comprise secondary or constitutional syphi- lis, or the excessive influence of mercury—of rare occurrence now-a- days ; the scrofulous taint; rheumatism; fevers; and probably other conditions affecting nutrition. Either class of canses—the traumatic or the constitutional—may be alone sufficient to induce osseous in- flammation. The bones most liable to inflammation are, however, those most exposed to the action of external agents. Hence, the tibia, cranium, and especially the frontal bone, the clavicle, sternum, ribs, and bones of the foot and hand, are most commonly affected. Consequences.—The consequences of inflammation of bone have been incidentally noticed in describing its structural conditions, and. particularly in connection with scrofulous ostitis. They may now be more definitely stated as follow:—(1.) Absorption and rarefaction of the bone having taken place, the osseous texture may be found in this state, before the supervention of much deposit—representing the osteoporosis of Rokitansky, or a form of atropliy as affecting bone. (See Fig. 287.) (2.) Induration, or sclerosis, having taken place, an increasing deposition of plastic lymph and its ossification results in considerable thickening of the substance of the bone (see Pig. 288) and perhaps iiregular osseous deposit on its free surfaces. (Kg. 292.) Thus, a long bone becomes thickened in the diameter or substance of its shaft, and deposition proceeding within the medullary canal, its bore is narrowed; while periosteal deposit, and perhaps osseous out- * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 183. Sections of Tibia and Patella.