170 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ulcer; the latter, an ulcer, having no specific characters. Medullary cancer evinces less tendency in its substance to ulceration, and com- paratively little disposition to infiltration of the integument; but the tumour _ growing more rapidly than scirrhus, the skin, subject to the mechanical influence of mere bulk, yields partly by tension and attenu- ation, and partly by common inflammatory ulceration, or perhaps sloughing, the aperture thus formed having the characters of an ordinary ulcer indisposed to heal. The growth protrudes as a fungoid mass, which is liable to repeated attacks of inflammation, with suppu- ration, ulceration, or sloughing. Haemorrhage also occurs, from time to time, or interstitial extravasations of blood into the cancerous mass. Consequently, a protruded encephaloid cancer appears in the form of a softened and bleeding exuberant growth—fungus haematodes. Diminished in bulk occasionally by ulceration or sloughing, farther protrusion takes place, so as to overlay and become adherent to the margin of the ulcer, which then appears everted. Colloid cancer is indisposed to ulcerate, although freely infiltrating the surrounding textures. Epithelial cancer is very prone to ulceration, as will be described in connection with this species. The ulcer resulting from the process of infiltration, and destruction of textare, presents certain appearances which are most characteristic in the scirrhous ulcer. Of variable size and shape, the edges, at first perhaps thin, irregular, and level with the surrounding surface, or sunken, undermined, and inverted, become thickened, elevated, and everted—a condition commonly observed. The bordering skin acquii'es a bluish red, or brown tint; and the surface, excavated and irregular, presents large prominent granulations, or a base of slough and blood. A thin, greenish, foetid, and acrid discharge—ichor-—oozes from the ulcer. Other changes may occur which more or less obscure these appearances, but they are chiefly exceptional or accidental. Hemor- rhage, for example, may be profuse, and particularly from the ulcer of encephaloid cancer. The capillary vessels are the usual source of this hsemorrhage ; but it sometimes proceeds from erosion of the larger vessels, or from rupture of the varicose veins communicating with the ulcer. An admixture of melanotic matter may occur, as seen also in ulcer of encephaloid cancer. Then again, a cancerous ulcer is liable to those pathological processes which affect an ordinary ulcer ; as inflam- mation and phagedsena. A cancerous ulcer enlarges slowly or rapidly, both circumferentially and in depth, the whole area of the textures being infiltrated with cancer- elements. Consolidation increasing, the ulcer becomes firm and fixed, both in its margins and base; scirrhous ulcer especially acquires these characters, like this species of cancer in the course of its growth. Hardness and immobility, therefore, superadded to the appearances of margin and surface already described, render the cancerous ulcer more peculiar. Cicatrization and Cicatrix.-—Paradoxical as it would seem that any process of healing should take place in a cancerous ulcer—itself inherently destructive and texturally indisposed to heal—nevertheless, cicatrization supervenes occasionally. Unlike that of an ordinary ulcer, this cicatrization rises over the prominent granulations and dips into the hollows of the ulcer. In the majority of cases, the process and its result are only temporary; as when erysipelas sweeping over a