826 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. sense of painful weakness in that situation, and as if the body were falling asunder. When the pelvis is at rest, or fixed in the recumbent positioii by the hand of the Surgeon, for examination, the Up may be moved in any direction without pain. It acquires a gnawing or rheu- matic character as the disease advances. Sometimes the pain extends down the limb; or in that of the opposite side, as proceeding from the pressure of an intra-pelvic abscess lying on the sacral plexus. Inability to support the weight of the body occasions an insecure, tvriggling gait, from side to side. There may be the additional symp- toms of some difficulty in micturition and defecation. Swelling makes its appearance over the joint; it is pulpy and elastic, and of an elon- gated shape in the line of the articulation. The limb is ai^parently elongated, owing to a drooping of the pelvis on the diseased side, the limb being disused to support the trunk; and this side of the pelvis is tilted forwards. Consequently, the anterior superior spine of the ilium is both on a lower level and more prominent forwards, than on the sound side. Measurement, however, from that prominence to the inner malleolus shows that the limb is not elongated; that any apparent lengthening—say, balf an inch—is not due to any change in the three large joints, or in the bones of the limb; but that it must depend on some alteration ahove the anterior superior spine. Usually, the limb is straight, and becomes wasted as the disease pro- gresses. Abscess occurs at a late period. It forms over the diseased articu- lation, but spreads in various directions. The matter may point pos- teriorly near the articulation, passing upwards perhaps to tbe loin, upon and just above the crest of the ilium, there forming a fluctuating swelling of considerable size ; or extending outwards over the buttock, it reaches forwards nearly to the trochanter, as a great gluteal abscess. In both these situations, lumbar and gluteal, the abscess is extra-pelvic. Intra-pelvic abscess, the matter accumulating within the pelvis, may pass out of the sciatic notch, and thence under the gluteal muscles; or gravitate downwards into tbe ischio-rectal fossa, and present by the side of the rectum, or vagina ; or open into the rectum and discharge per anum. Shortening of the limb takes place, in consequence of, and proportionate to, the destruction of the sacro-iliac articulation. In one case, related by Sir B. Brodie, the ilium seemed displaced and drawn upwards, so as to shorten the affected limb by two inches. The diagnosis will have to be made between this disease, and that of the hip, disease of the pelvic bones, spinal disease, neuralgia of the hip, and sciatica. As compared with disease of the hip-joint, sacro-iliac disease differs more or less notably in nearly all the symptoms: the loose, wriggling gait, rather than dragging lameness of the limb; the early accession of pain, and its situation—in the sacro-iliac joint, with the absence of pain in the hip-joint and the sympathetic sensation on the inner side of the knee. The swelling which supervenes corresponds to the articulation which is affected. Observing these signs as relating to the seat of the disease, the Surgeon will not be misled by certain features of resemblance to disease of the hip-joint—in the apparent lengthening of the limb on the affected side, accompanied with down- ward obliquity of the pelvis on that side ; but it will be noticed that the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium is not only lower—it