291 ERYSIPELAS. reftr to cases of infectious erysipelas, recorded severally by Dickson,* Blackett,t and Stevenson.J Then Mr. Arnott § took up the inquiry. He collected what had been done by others, and added the results of his own observations. " In one family, the mother was first affected with inflammation of the j^haayns, terminating in mortification. On her death the husband was attacked with inflammation of the throat and erysipelas of the face. As he recovered, the daughter was similarly seized with inflammation of the pharynx and severe erysipelas." Five years prior to this paper, although published subsequently, a series of ob- servations yet mox*e convincing, if possible, were made Toy Dr. Gibson.|| For example, the infant son of a gentleman was seized with erysipelas on one foot. Afterwards, the mother became affected with erysipelas of the face and scalp. Then the nurse, who suckled the child, was attacked with symptoms of pneumonia. She was removed to her father's house, four miles off. He, who some days before her arri- val had received a wound of the scalp, was now seized with erysipelas of the face and scalp, and died. Soon afterwards, a sister, living in the same cottage, had fever with sore throat, from which she slowly recovered. Two children, in the same house, were cut off with what appeared to be croup. Taking a fair estimate of all these cases, it will be obvious that those are most decisive where the persons who became affected resided at some distance from the house in which erysipelas first manifested itself. Persons living together might possibly be subject to some endemic source of disease, as bad drainage, or insufficient ventilation. But if the fact of persons acquiring erysipelas, after associating with those who have this disease, is in favoiu? of its propagation by infection; so also, when the source of contamination is removed, the disease should cease to spread. Of this the following is an illustration:—The wards of the Dublin Fever and Dysentery Hospital were large and extremely well ventilated. " On paying my daily visit," writes Dr. Brereton,«[[ "I observed one of the patients, who had been admitted with fever some days previously, to be formidably attacked with erysipelas. On the following day I found the patient in the next bed seized with it. On the third day, two patiejits in the adjoining beds were similarly attacked. I then," continues Dr. Brereton, "became seriously of opinion that the disease was contagious, but resolved not to have those already affected removed until I had tried the result of another day. On the foUpwing morning, I found three more in like manner labouring under the disease; and what made it more remarkable, they were all simi- larly attacked in the head and face. I had them immediately put into another ward, where there were no patients ; they all recovered, and no more erysipelas afterwards appeared." In this series seven patients were attacked successively, but here the supposed cause being removed, its effect ceased. Respecting, then, the propagation of erysipelas by infection, we nave the clouUe test of causation fulfilled; the presence of erysipelas is * " Med.-Chir. Jour.," April, 1819, p. 615. t " Med. and Physical Jour.." April, 1826. I " Edin. Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. ii., 1826. § " London Med. and Physical Jour.," 1827, vol. vlii. II " Edin. Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. iii., 1829. •^r "Dub. Jour, of Medical Science," vol. vi. p. 176.