758 SPECIAL PATHOLOay AND SURGERY. backwards; as in a case which Maisonneuve verified by dissection. Pislocation of any of the carpal bones may occur, in connection with gunshot injury, or other occasions of extensive fracture of the neigh- bouring bones. The Signs will be—a bony projection at the back of the wrist, with some loss of power. The Cause is usually a fall on the back of the hand, which being thus forcibly doubled under itself, occasions one of the carpal bones to start backwards ; the os magnum, for example. The pisiform bone is said to have been detached by the action of the flexor carpi-ulnaris muscle, in cases seen by Fergusson and Erichsen. Treatment.—Pressure may easily replace the bone, but the applica- tion of a compress, and for some time, will be necessary, to guard against redislocation; the os magnum, in particular, having. a great tendency to slip out again. Dislocations of the Metacarpal Bones at thei/r Carpal Articulations. —Any such dislocation is rare, and usually limited to a single meta- carpal bone, hachwards. The thumb is most commonly dislocated, and either hachwards or forwards on the trapezium ; the former displace- ment occurring more frequently. Either may be partial or complete. The other metacarpal bones are very seldom dislocated, Malgaigne having collected only three instances, to which a few others have been added. All the metacarpal bones, except that of the thumb, had under- gone dislocation, in a probably unique case which Hamilton examined five years after the accident, by gunshot injury. The displacement backwards remained, but the motions of the fingers, except the fore and little fingers, were perfect. The Signs, in any case, are sufiiciently obvious : projection of the end, or hase, of the metacarpal bone, in the direction of displacement, and immobility. The direction of the thumb may be quite straight, or with flexion there is also some inclination of the metacarpal bone inwards towards the palm. Causes.—A fall on the thumb, bending it on itself, represents the ordinary mode of its dislocation. A blow upon the extremity and palmar aspect of the last phalanx may, however, cause dislocation ; the force then acting in the opposite direction, or from within outwards. Treatment.—Extension, with pressure on the end Fig. 367.* of the bone, will generally succeed in effecting re- duction. A splint should then be applied, and per- haps a compress to prevent any risk of redislocation. The bulky base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb sometimes obstinately resists reduction; in which case. Sir A. Cooper recommends that the dislocation should be left to acquire the compensatory motion of a new joint, rather than the Surgeon run any risk of injuring the nerves and blood-vessels, by dividing the muscles or ligaments. Dislocations of the First Phalangeal Bones— their Iletacarpo-Phalangeal Articulatmis.—These dis- locations, also, seldom happen; and usually the bone is driven hachvards, though sometimes forwards. (Fig. 367.) I have seen the phalangeal bones of the index and middle fingers partly driven * Guy's Hospital Mus., 1313.