493 ANEURISM OF CAROTID ARTERY. Fig. 130* Carotid Artery. Aneurism. — Syonptoms. — The usual symptoms of an aneurismal tumour are present, and well-marked, owing to tlie situation of carotid aneurism. (Pig. 130.) The pressure-effects are similar to those of carotid, subclavian, and innominate aneurisms, at the root of the neck, and those also of aneu- risms of the aortic arch; so far as their anatomical rela- tions are similar. Thus, the contiguity of the tumour to the trachea and oesophagus gives rise to increasing dysp- noea and dysphagia; com- pression of the recurrent laryngeal nerve occasions hoarseness or loss of voice; pressure on the cervical plexus is accompanied with some pain or loss of sensibility in the parts thence supplied; and there may be some giddiness or other cerebral disturbance, owing to interruption of the circulation through the aneurismal artery. Aneurism of the external carotid arises higher up in the neck, behind the angle of the jaw ; and as the sac enlarges, the pressure-effects of the tumour vary- ing according to its anatomical relations, the symptoms may be so far differential. (Pig. 131.) The diagnosis of carotid aneurism must have regard to the various kinds of pulsating tumour which are liable to occur in connection with the carotid artery. Enlarged lymphatic glands, and tumours, * Royal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1686. In the case here represented, the sac is of spheroidal shape, and has attained to a large size,—measuring between four and five inches in its chief diameter. The mouth of the sac, about one inch in diameter, oval, and smoothly bordered, is situated an inch below the bifurca- tion of the artery. All the adjacent parts are adherent to the sac, which com- pressed the larynx and trachea. But the sac is nearly filled with laminated coagulum, almost amounting to a natural cure. On the other hand, the carotid artery, both below and above the aneurism, is thickened and indurated, and the aorta also is the seat of degeneration. The other large arteries and the heart •were apparently healthy. t Roy. Coll. Surg., Mus., 1G90. In the rare specimen from which the figure is taken, an aneurism springs from the external carotid artery close by its origin. The tumour was well-defined. The sac communicates witli the vessel bv a small Fig. ISl.t