SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 360 of healing by primaiy adhesion, rmaecomjmmed by inflammation ; when the surfaces of the wound are in contact. ]3ut an incised wound may heal by other modes of reparation, under different circumstances. It will therefore be necessary to here describe all these modes of healing, which are four in number; although the latter two will be found to pertain more especially to Contused and Lacerated, or open. Wounds. Modes of Beparation.—Wounds may heal in one or other of four different ways, first clearly distinguished by Macartney; and subject to certain modifications, the distinctions he drew are still accurate. First. Immediate union, without any intervening substance, such as blood or lymph. (Union by the first intention, and through the mediuni of blood—Hunter.) Secondly. Union by the medium of coagulable lymph, or a clot of blood—mediate by lymph or blood. (Union by adhesion, or adhesive infl.ammation—Hunter. Union by first intention, as now commonly understood. Primary adhesion—Paget.) Thirdly. Reparation by suppurative granulations. Fourthly. Healing under a scab. (1.) Immediate Pinion is effected only under certain circumstances. Incised wounds may thus unite when the cut surfaces are immediately replaced in close contact, so that no substance of any kind intervenes. The blood itself is pressed out of the wound, the divided blood-vessels and nerves are brought into perfect contact, and reunion ensues by the opposed surfaces simply growing together. This process of repair is very speedy. It will take place in two or three days ; possibly in almost as few hours. No intermediate substance exists in a Avound thus healed ; consequently no cicatrix or mark remains. Nature under- takes and may accomplish the immediate union of any incised wound, irrespective of its extent, provided only the conditions mentioned arc fulfilled. Thus, divided nerves may reunite, as manifested by the recovery of sensation or other functions peculiar to them. But such restoration is, generally, very slowly effected. In a case under my care at the Hospital, the tongue was severed by an incised wound, extending nearly through the substance of that organ, which hung by a mere shred on the left side ; dividing the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves on both sides. The divided portion having been promptly replaced and secured, in even contact with the root, complete reunion took place; the tongue slowly recovering the power of motion and the sense of taste. (2.) Primary Adhesion.—A period of reparative inactivity, jaei-haps of short duration, succeeds the injury ; during which the divided tex- tures are indisposed to unite, although placed in apposition. But this condition of apparent inactivity may partly be due to interception of the process of reparation; either by the presence of some foreign body between the cut surfaces, or from continued hfemorrhage. The process begins whenever the textures are glazed over, thus sealing the blood- vessels. This appearance of the wound denotes either the previous exudation of reparative lymph, or the coagulation of a thin layer of blood, just sufficient for adhesion. Reparation then commences. Beparative Materials.—Goagidable lymph and, possibly, llood are the materials supplied ; and their reparative power is exhibited by the organization which takes place in either of them, spontaneously. John Hunter, so far as I know, first advocated the possibility of blood under-