Publicatiom by Bailliere, lindall, and Cox. 2 A Contribution to the Medical History of our West African Campaigns, by Surgeon-Major Albert A. Gore, M.D., sanitary officer on the Staff. loj. (>d. " Dr. Gore has given ns a most interesting record of a series of stirring events in which he took an active part, and of elaborate precautions for the maintenance of health."—Medical Press. Building of a Brain (by the Author of Sex in Education). 6s. " We are much pleased with this little work, which is carefully and ele- gantly written, and full of sound physiology."—Lancet. Essays on Conservative Medicine, and kindred topics. By Austin Flint, M.D., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Medicine, and of Clinical Medicine, in Bellevue Hospital Medical Col- lege, New York. ds. The Training of the Mind for the Study of Medicine : A Lecture delivered at St. George's Hospital. By Robert Brudenell Carter, F.R.C.S., Professor of Ophthalmic Surgery in the Hospital, i f. " A remarkable address."—The Lancet. "No one can read it withoutleanringand profitingmuch "—Stud, fovrnal Bules of Medical Etiquette, by a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians ; for vest pocket, is. cloth. Medical Men and Manners of the Nineteenth Centtiry. zs. By Ari6a,cSivtT0i. " His historical Introduction is interesting, and much of it is new, and of itself is worth perusal A brochure well known and widely read, the ^Tiore widely the better."—Medical Press. The Medical Student's Guide; on tlie best course to be pursued by those entering the Medical Profession. By W. Douglas Hemming, M.R.C.S. dd. Short Lectures on Sanitary Subjects. By Richard J. Halton, L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.P. Edin., L.R.C.S.I., &c., Medical Officer of Health to Kells. 5^. " A book well adapted to popular reading and replete with sound know- ledge promotive of good health and long life. "•—Sanitarian. On Vitiated Air. A Paper read before the Association of Medical Officers of Health. 6d. By C. Meymott Tidy, M.B., Lecturer on Chemistry and Professor of Medical Juris- prudence at the London Hospital.