711 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. crumble, loosen, and are washed out by a profuse foetid discbarge, exposing the dura mater continuous with the cavities of the ear. If the disease be not fatal, permanent deafness results. Treatment.—The local measures for the removal of carious or ne- crosed portions of bone by operative interference, and the constitutional treatment of Scrofula or Syphilis, are in no way peculiar to the Cranial Bones. Other Bones are less frequently liable to caries and necrosis: the sternum, ribs, scapula, and pelvic bones. 'The pathology and treatment, in such cases, present no essential peculiarities. Diseases of the Jaws will be considered, under this title, in con- nection with Diseases pertaining to the Head, Diseases of the Spine.—See Spine. JOINTS. CHAPTER XXXIV. injuries.—sprains.—WOUNDS.—DISLOCATIONS. Sprains or Strains of the Ligaments of Joints.—These lesions essen- tially resemble similar injury of Tendons (Ch. XXII.). The anhle or wrist- joint is most commonly affected. Severe pain, possibly inducing syn- cope, is soon followed by swelling around the joint; succeeded by stiff- ness, and continued inability to use the joint. A very severe sprain, or its repetition, may leave the joint in a state of permanent weakness, and liability to dislocation. Or disease of the joint may ensue, in persons predisposed by any constitutional condition, as a rheumatic or gouty diathesis. And it would seem that injury to a joint so alters its structural condition as possibly to induce disease under favourable circumstances; and perhaps after the lapse of a considerable period. Thus, Sir B. Brodie, shortly before his death, I believe, suffered from a malignant tumour of the shoulder, which was, apparently, referable to some textural disorganization consequent on dislocation of the joint some years previously. The cause of sprain is a violent and sudden twist or wrench of a joint, whereby the opposing ligaments are stretched or somewhat ruptured. Even the epiphyses of bone may thus be detached, in a young subject. The treatment consists in an easy position and rest; warm or cold applications, according to the inflammatory character of the swelling and the feelings of the patient; followed by stimulating embrocations, and the support of a bandage, strapping with broad strips of plaster, or a starched bandage. "Wounds of Joints.—A wound extending into a joint may, like other "Wounds, be incised, punctured, contused, or lacerated; and the joint, accordingly, is more or less opened, or extensively injured. But the