235 SCROFULA. Hygienic Conditions.—Whatever impairs the nutritive qualities of the blood and its circulation may produce scrofula; therefore, deficient or defective food, indoor life, insufficient ventilation, want of cleanliness and excretion, poor clothing, cold, damp, and even dark localities, with other circumstances of similar character, are the nurseries and nurses of this blood-disease. At the same time, individual predisposition, as usual, plays its part; for among a family of children iu precisely the same hygienic circumstances, one becomes scrofulous, while the rest escape. Treatment.—Preventive measures are far more efficacious than remedial treatment. They consist in the anticipation or timely removal of the predisposing hygienic conditions just adverted to; any inborn predisposition by temperament being beyond prevention. Due atten- tion to food is primarily important. In the absence of more precise knowledge respecting the blood-condition in scrofula, it is impossible to direct and regulate the diet chemically. Experience, however, suggests a light nutritive diet, and not to overload the stomach by a heavy meal. Stimulants may be necessary to assist digestion, but they should be indulged in sparingly. The pampered scrofulous child of affluent parents is as badly ofE as the ill-fed child of the poorest. The bowels, which are very apt to be costive, or at least irregular in their action, will require the assistance of gentle aperients, such as rhubarb or the confection of senna. Not less important is daily exercise in pure air, and ablution not only to cleanse the skin, but to invigorate the circulation and promote excretion. Hence, sea-bathing may prove very beneficial. Friction with the horse-hair gloves and belt, or a rough towel, and warm clothing, with flannel next the skin, are likewise salutary. But, a warm, dry, light locality for habitation, in a well- ventilated and well-drained dwelling, constitute the hygienic surround- ings which are most preventive of scrofula. The latter, especially, is a hard prescription for the poor to carry out. Among, however, the many blessings bestowed on them in this vast metropolis, by the imperishable philanthropy of Mr. George Peabody, a yearly decreasing predisposition to scrofula will perhaps be the greatest boon. Curative treatment implies the same continued attention to the removal of any causes provocative of this disease. The hygienic con- ditions of diet, exercise, air, ablution for cleanliness and invigoration, clothing, and climatic influence, are still of paramount importance. But certain medicinal agents, principally iron, iodide of potassium, bark, and cod-liver oil, have an acknowledged therapeutic value. Iron may be given in the form of vinum ferri, the ammonio-citrate, the citrate or the sulphate of iron ; the latter of which preparations I prefer, as it improves the blood more effectually. This is denoted by a notable arrest or diminution of any sci'ofulous deposit in the glands or other parts of the body. Iodide of potassium has a beneficial influence on scrofulous deposit, apparently by promoting its absorption; but I must confess that this mfluence seems to me overrated. Iodide of iron is unquestionably remedial, but this is probably due to the iron rather than the iodine. Perhaps, therefore, the therapeutic value of iodide of potassium in scrofula, may be attributed to the latter ingredient; an explanation in harmony with the generally accredited efficacy of other preparations of potash in this disease.