65 INFLAMMATION. each coHtraction of the heart, but is composed of three factors, the part played by each of these varying under different circumstances of disease. They do not depend, however, for their existence on any peculiar or complicated condition of the circulation in the human body, but merely on the ordinary laws of hydrodynamics, and are invariably produced when fluid is pumped, in an intermitting stream, forcibly and suddenly through an elastic tube. The development of each varies with conditions which can be experimentally ascertained and varied at will, so that a pulse of any character can be obtained by regulating the conditions accordingly. " The simplest pulsatile movement that can be conceived in an elastic tube is the mere passage of a wave of fluid through it, causing more Fig. 9.—Formation of Pulse Wave. (a.) Tidal wave b. (6.) Tidal wave b + percussion wave A. (c.) Tidal wave B+ percussion wave A + dicrotic wave c. or less sudden expansion, and a gradual collapse of the tube, as it passes through it; such a wave is the foundation of the pulse, and has been called the " Tidal " wave. (Fig. 9a.) If the impulse imparted to the fluid is more sudden, an element of percussion or shock will be intro- duced (Fig. 9b), giving an abrupt and vertical upstroke, from the jerking up of the lever by the sudden expansion of the artery. Owing to its acquired velocity, this movement of the lever is rather greater than the corresponding movement in the artei-ial wall which produced it, and on reaching its highest point, it falls suddenly by its own weight, till it is again caught and perhaps slightly raised by the tidal "wave A, which is now only reaching its maximum of distension. " The third element is that of elastic recoil, and is produced by the contraction of the elastic wall of the vessel or tube, which occurs imme- diately on the termination of contraction or systole; this is called the ' Dicrotic' wave. (Fig. 9c.) The elastic wall of the vessel is over- distended during systole, owing to the acquired velocity of the blood, which is considerable on account of its great inertia and the force of the ventricular contraction ; and immediately systole ends and the