6 Puhlications by Baillih-e, 2'indall, and Cox. The Text-Book of (113) Anatomical Plates, designed under the direction of Professor Masse, with Descriptive Text. By E. Bellamy, F.R.C.S., Professor of Anatomy, Science and Art Department, South Kensington, Surgeon to and Lecturer on Anatomy and Operative Surgery, Charing Cross Plospital. Second edition, plain, 2\s. ; coloured,'42^-. "With these plates the student will be able to read up his anatomy almost as readily as .with a recent dissection before him.'"—Student's Journal. The Vest-Pocket Gray, or Anatomist's Vade-Mecum. Com- piled specially for Students. By C. H. Leonard, M.D, 32mo., \s. " By dint of a small though clear type, and the exclusion of all unneces- sary words, a marvellous amount of information has been condensed into a remarkably small space."—Medical Press. The Students' Case Book: containing Practical Instruc- tions, and all the Necessary Information for Clinical Work and Systematic Case-taking, with a number of Ruled Sheets, for recording particulars of cases as seen. By George Brown, M.R.C.S., Late Demonstrator ot Anatomy, Westminster Hospital; Gold Medallist, Charing Cross Hospitl. 2nd edition, enlarged, \s. Elements of the General and Minute Anatomy of Man and the Mammalia. From Original Researches. By Professor Gerber, University of Bern, and Professor George Gulliver, F.R.S. vols, containing thirty-four plates. \^s. Nature and Treatment of Deformities of the HTiraaa Body. By Lambert H. Ormsby, M.B., University Dublin, Surgeon to the Meath Hospital and County Dublin Infir- mary. Crown 8vo., illustrated. Price 5X. Handbook of Post-Mortem Examinations, and of Morbid Anatomy. By Francis Delafield, M.D., Curator to Bellevue Hospital, New York. Price t5j-. ■Consumption, its True Nature and Successful Treatment, with Appendix of Cases. By Godwin Timms, M.D. Lond., M.R.C.P., Senior Physician to the North London Consumption Hospital, Consulting Physician to the Western City Dis- pensary, &c. 2nd edition, ioj. dd.