ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 209 goes are, according to my own observations, apparently as follows:— The particle remains stationary or dormant for a few days, possibly even for some weeks, before beginning to grow; it may perhaps die away and nearly disappear as a thin, bluish-white point; then, if examined with a magnifying glass, a network of vessels will be seen in, and as a zone around, any cutaneous centre about to grow. The particle assumes an opaque white appear- ance, and loses its vascularity; it enlarges with a thin, semi-trans- parent, fringed border, preceded by the vascular zone, and increases also in thickness, thus growing both circumferentially and in substance from below. These changes of character are more observ- able in the reproduced portion of skin, the original centre remaining thinner and more transparent. Any such islet does not extend indefinitely, probably not to a larger size than a fourpenny piece or a sixpence. The areas of cicatrix, thus formed, meet together, or extend into the margin of the ulcer, and at length the surface becomes covered and cicatrization is completed. Skin-grafting sometimes suc- ceeds or fails; and when practised in the sam6 individual, at the same time, and in the same manner, on the same ulcer, some engrafted centres prove reproductive, others die out. (2.) Inflamed Ulcer.—A departure from the healthy type of ulcer; the usual signs of inflammation are characteristic. An area of redness with some swelling around the ulcer are more or less con- spicuous appearances, while a burning heat and aching pain are experienced, particularly when the part is pendent, as the shin—a common situation for an inflamed ulcer. The granulations have a rose-red rather than a florid colour, or they may be absent and the surface of the ulcer overspread with a thin ash-grey slough; the suppuration is scanty, thin, and perhaps tinged with blood. As in- flammation subsides, the cuticle peels of£ or desquamates for some distance around the ulcer. This condition of sore accompanies inflammatory fever, an ulcer previously healthy then becoming inflamed; or it may be produced by external violence or consequent on local irritation. Treatment.—Any cause or causes in operation will, as usual, primarily direct the treatment, namely, their removal. Then, remedial measures are those appropriate for inflammation. A poultice, or a cold evaporating lotion, if more agreeable, and perhaps the local abstraction of blood by a few leeches applied in the neighbourhood of the ulcer; with rest and an elevated position of the part; and, finally, water-dressing as the sore assumes a healthy character and under- goes the process of healing. Bandaging the limb may, at this period, be useful to support the weakened vessels of the part; and thus prevent any liability to the continuance or recurrence of a low state of inflam- mation ; a very troublesome chronic condition, which is apt to follow an acutely inflamed ulcer. (3.) Irritable Ulcer.—This variety of ulcer is to be distinguished from an inflamed ulcer, with which it might be confounded. Painful to a degree, even of a neuralgic character, the other and more peculiar signs of inflammation, particularly circumferential redness and swell- ing, are wanting. The granulations are imperfect or absent, reddish here, tawny there ; but they are very painful and sensitive to the touch, and readily bleed on slight pressure or the application of a