718 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. will then effect coaptation. It is in retracing the course of displacement —the performance of reduction—no less than as regards the iivieliness of Surgical intervention, that the guidance of pathology is chiefly experienced in the treatment of Dislocation. To facilitate reduction, muscular resistance is eluded, partly by undertaking reduction as soon as possible after dislocation, when the muscles are as yet inoperative ; aud partly by placing the limb in a suitable position, as far as possible, to relax the antagonistic muscles. The semi-flexed position, as nearly as it can be attained, is the happy medium generally desirable for this purpose. In hip-joint dislocations, flexion of the knee relaxes the three ham-string muscles; while, for dislocations of the knee, the gas- trocnemius muscle also is thus relaxed. For shoulder-joint dislocations, flexion of the elbow relaxes the biceps muscle. And it should be re- membered that the flexor muscles are always stronger, and therefore more resisting, than the extensors. The resources for subduing muscular resistance will be noticed presently, in speaking of the act of reduction. JUxtension and counter-extension of the limb are necessary in all cases, and more especially for the reduction of ball-and-socket dislocations. The extending force may be either manual, as exerted by the Surgeon with an assistant or more ; or mechanically applied, by pulleys. Manual extension is less steady and less enduring; and as those who are so employed become fatigued, they relax their exertions, the muscles engaged in the dislocation regain their original supremacy and draw the bone back again to its former abnormal position, reproducing the displacement, and the work of extension has to be done all over again. Extension by means of pulleys is, however, apt to become too forcible, thereby endangering muscles, nerves, vessels, and even the bone itself ; but force applied by this means can be better directed than that of personal strength. In like manner, counter-extension may be main- tained either by an assistant or more; or by mechanical resistance, a cloth or strap being secured to some fixed point, as a staple firmly fixed in a wall. The relative merits of these two means of counter-extension also should be estimated by the respective characters of the forces, which are thus applied. As a general rule, pulleys are requii'ed only to reduce hip-joint dislocations, unless manipulation prove successful. When employed, precautions should be taken that the integuments of the part to which the force is applied are not injured. Extension may, therefore, be applied to the limb through a belt, padded with soft leather. If a strong woollen cloth be used Fig. 333. instead, the noose should be fixed around the limb by the clove-hitch tie, which retains its hold securely, without tightening. (Fig. 333.) Besides this provision against strangu- lation, a damp cloth, under the noose, wiU protect the skin from friction. To what 'part of the limb should extension be applied ? On this point, opinions are divided, as with regard to fracture. Some of the most eminent French Surgeons have recommended extension to be made indirectly, from the distal extremity of the limb—from the wrist, in shoulder-joint dislocation ; from the ankle, in that of the hip-joint. It is alleged that the advantage thereby gained is twofold.