ANEUEISM. 457 iliac, 5 ; brachio-cephalic, 4 ; brachial, cominon iliac, anterior tibial, of each, 3 ; gluteal, internal iliac, temporal, of each, 2; internal carotid, ulnar, peroneal, radial, palmar arch, of each, 1. The external causes of aneurism relate to injuries of various kinds affecting the arteries, as an external wound, a fracture or dislocation, opening an artery; or, a strain, blow, or bruise, inducing sloughing of the vessel. Hence the formation of traumcdic Aneurism; which is primarily diiiused, and secondarily only becomes circumscribed, in favourable cases. The relations of origin and structural condition, in respect to Aneurism, are clearly represented in the following Table :— Aneurism. Origin. j Idiopathic I Traumatic Circumscribed—primarily. Diffused—secondarily. Diffused—primarily. Circumscribed—secondarily. The mode of origin in no way afiects the signs and the diagnosis of Aneurism—there the structural conditions, circumscribed and diffused, are the grounds of distinction ; but the etiology of Aneurism affords the most significant indications as to treatment. This will appear presently. While, therefore, I recognize the perceptible distinctions, circumscribed and diffused Aneurism; I would supplement this diag- nosis, by associating therewith that condition of the artery, whether of disease or injury, which is suggested by the origin of the aneurism, as idiopathic or traumatic. Fig. 112. The effects and the course of Aneurism have both local and constitutional relations. Locally, circumscribed Aneurism produces pressure-effects. The sac of blood, fluid or semi- solid, pulsating and gradually enlarging, exerts a constant, ex- pansive, and increas- ing circumferential pressure; producing various functional dis- turbances and altera- tions of structure in surrounding parts, as exhibited by the pres- sure-effects of pop- liteal aneurism. (Fig. 112.) The current of blood, thi'ough the artery, being more and more obstructed, or altogether intercepted, the veins become turgid, and oedema super- venes. The nerves become flattened into ribands, occasioning intense pain, or eventually, partial paralysis; the muscles waste, and the * From Sir A. Cooper. t Aneurism of abdominal aorta, at bifurcation. Destruction of bodies of vcrtebrse, leaving inter-vertebral fibro-cartilaKes. Univ. Coll. Mus., 2741.