SPECIAL- PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 564 to. Meanwhile the valves become attenuated, and pulled asunder transversely, so as to be useless; in many instances they become partially or wholly obliterated, or are torn into shreds, or destroyed as far as their free border, which then runs across the diameter of the vessel like a filament or band, attached by the two extremities to the internal membrane. The veins now appear elongated, and their course very tortuous:' (Fig. 175.) The Mood, at first fluid, is liable to coagulation, occluding the channel of a varicose vein. A sensation of weight, fulness, and even pain, accompanies this double obstruction to the venous circulation—varicosity of, and coagulation within, the veins. But the symptoms referred to are not peculiar to this con- dition ; and they are increased by exercise and the erect posture. The veins most liable to become varicose are the subcutaneous and submucous. The internal saphena, and less so, the external saphena, are peculiarly liable; and form the varicose veins commonly seen. Less commonly affected are the veins of the arms, abdominal parietes, th.e chest, external jugular in the neck, and the superficial veins of the head. The lower hsemorrhoidal veins around the anus, and the lower portion of the rectal mucous membrane, are frequently varicose ; form- ing hEemorrhoids or piles, external or internal. The spermatic veins, around the cord in the scrotum, are not unfrequently affected, when the disease is named varicocele. Sometimes the veins connected witli the pudic vein, as in the scrotum, or the nymphee. Of deep-seated veins, those most liable to become varicose are the prostatic veins, the internal jugular, and the vena azygos. Causes.—Any occasion of pressure on a venous trunk, or any cardiac obstruction to the free return of venous blood, or want of pro- pulsive power of the heart, will induce varix. The veins of the lower extremities are so commonly the seat of this condition, owing to their distance from the heart, and the influence of gravitation. Habitually excessive walking exercise, or a standing occupation, operate in like manner. Wearing a tight garter below the knee, and the enlargement of the uterus during pregnancy, well illustrate the production of varicose veins by pressure on the saphena or iliac veins. Disease of the liver and rectal constipation have a similar relation to hfEmor- rhoids. Certain predisfosing causes may be noticed. The want of support by surrounding textures predisposes superficial veins to become varicose. It is said that some degenerative change in the coats of veins, as in the arteries, may also be a provocative condition. Age has certainly a notable influence; the disease being rare in early life and increasing as years advance. Sex seems to have some in- fluence ; for a varicose state of the veins is produced more frequently in women; probably, chiefly, in connection with the uterine conditions of pregnancy or the formation of a tumour. Disorders of menstruation have, apparently, some causative relation to venous varicosity in the lower limbs ; the saphena veins becoming distended and painful at each period, or the seat of vicai'ious hismorrhage. Of thirty-four cases of crural varicosity, taken in succession, Mr. Gay found the disease to be clearly associated with catamenial disorder in fourteen; and similar observations had been made by Frankenau and Briguet. Hereditary tendency appears to have a marked influence in some cases. Lastly, injuries, such as fractures, laceration, burns, are not unfre- quently followed by obstruction of the neighbouring venous trunks,