INTRA-CAPSULAB FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 647 the shaft of the bone, is drawn upwards and to the outer or posterior side of the head of the bone, and rotated so that the fractured end is directed forwards. The upper or articular fragment remains in position; the head of the bone being in the acetabulum, and connected Fig. 247.* Fig. 248. f by the round ligament. Displace- ment of the lower fragment will be more or less complete, according to the extent of rupture of the capsule and periosteum. Impacted fracture is not very uncommon, in my experience ; the end of the lower fragment being driven into the upper. Signs.—In intra-capsular frac- ture of the neck of the femur, the limb is shortened, and everted; with the knee slightly flexed, the toes pointing outwards, and the heel drawn up and resting on the inner side of the leg above the ankle. (Fig. 248.) The hip is somewhat flattened, the "prominence of the great trochanter being less marked, and drawn upwards to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. Thus far, the injury resembles dislocation forwards upon the pubes ; ex- cepting that the limb is then abducted, and the head of the bone can generally be felt in its new position. But, with fracture, on drawing the limb downwards to its proper length, and rotating inwards, crepitus and mobility of the lower fragment will be felt, when the hand is placed over the trochanter; and this prominence of bone moves in a less regular and smaller segment of a circle than on the opposite or sound side. Pain, severe on any attempt at motion, and total powerlessness of the limb, conclude the diagnosis. Shortening, in the first instance, varies from half an inch to an inch; but it increases, perhaps, to two inches or more, as the capsular ligament yields more completely, by contraction of the muscles or by bearing on the limb, or if the fragments impacted become dislodged. But shortening of the limb may be produced by slight flexion, as an effort of the patient * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum, C. 113. t lutra-capsular fracture of ucck of Femiu'. (Author.)