517 ANEURISM OF TIBIAL ARTEEIES. ham, became consolidated, but I learnt that subsequently this aneurism returned. Ligature of the artery has occasionally been practised with advan- tage on both sides; either simultaneously, or, with more safety, con- secutively. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Popliteal Artery.—Should either of these lesions occur, they would present nothing peculiar as to symptoms of treatment. Rupture of the artery, subcutaneously, has been met with. In one case, double ligature of the vessel was performed by Mr. Poland, with an unsuccessful result, gangrene having supervened on the third day, followed by amputation and death. But no difficulty was experienced in the operation. The only two other cases wherein double Hgature of the popliteal has been attempted, failed in the operation. Ligature of the femoral has been tried in two cases, both of which terminated fatally by gangrene. In one case, accompanied with rupture of the popliteal vein, which occurred in my own practice, gangrene ensued, for which amputation was performed above the knee, with, however, a fatal result (page 375). The following case is probably unique, but it will prepare the Surgeon for that which may happen again. (Fig. 143.) A popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, showing an arterio-venous aneurism, and in which the sac consists of an expansion of the nerve-fihres, some of them traversing the cavity of the sac, and the whole then reunite in the nerve. In its minute structure, the sac is composed of an external fibrous investment, continuous with the nerve-sheath or neurilemma, and of an internal delicate lining membrane. Two Fig- 143.* vessels open into the small vein and a small artery. The patient, a woman aged thirty-two, had received a blow in the left ham, from a rotating pump-handle. Four- teen days afterwards, a swelling formed the size of a nut, and in six months attained to its present size, that of a small orange. It did not pulsate, but was the seat of stabbing pain, which extended down to the sole of the foot. It was twice punctured, and gave vent to venous blood. Afterwards an incision was made, and the tumour was found to contain venous blood, and blood had ex- travasated into the surrounding cellular re- cesses of the knee. Amputation was then resorted to, and the patient recovered. (See also Med. Chir. Trans., vol. xlix.) (C. H. Moore.) Tibial Arteries—Anterior and Posterior. Aneurism.—Symptoons.—Very rarely, spontaneous aneurism occurs below the knee, in connection with either of the tibial arteries. A small aneurism of the posterior tibial is preserved as a preparation in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. The symptoms will probably be obscure, owing to the smaU size of any such aneurism, and its depth * Middlesex Hosp. Mus., S. v. 76.