GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKUV. 258 ence ; while, indeed, cicatrization is proceeding at the circumference, the pus is specific in the centre of the ulcer, and may propagate chancroid in a neighbouring part, or in another person. But different modes of therapeutic treatment will affect the duration of specificity, and must be taken into account. The mercurial and non-mercurial methods of treatment have a different influence on chancre, in this respect, and unfavourable to the former method, in its prolonging or not curtailing the period before healing,—that period being taken as the indication of continued specificity. Thus, to com- pare the large collections of cases by Sir James M'Grigor and Sir Will iam Franklin. In 194)0 chancres collated indiscriminately, and which healed without mercury, the average period was, without bubo, twenty-one days; with bubo, forty-five days ; whereas, in 2827 chancres, including a larger proportion of indurated sores treated with mercury, the average period prior to healing was, without bubo, thirty-three days; with bubo, fifty days,—a longer continuance of the specific nature under the influence of mercury. Syphilis—SEcnNDAET or Constitutional.—The blood having become infected with the syphilitic virus, after the appearance of chancre with induration, in the course of a month or six weeks, or a longer period, a constitutional disturbance—the syphilitic fever—ensues, in a degree more or less marked. According to the observations of Dr. Guntz, the period of its accession varies to within fifty and sixty-five days, in the natural course of the disease, unaffected by ti'eatment; but that no fever appears within or even beyond that period, when, from imme- diately after infection, the patient has been brought under the influence of mercury, used internally or externally. The symptoms of febrile disturbance are those of ordinary pyrexia; some acceleration of the pulse, a dry, hot skin, and furred tongue; succeeded by great debility, wandering pains, and gradual emaciation, with the wan sallowness of syphilitic cachexia. Occasionally, Guntz has known a violent rigor or shivering fit to precede the symptoms. The temperature always rises considerably, perhaps to 103|° F., in the first twenty-four hours; then, on the second day, it falls much lower, followed perhaps by evening exacerbations daily, for a long time.' With the accession of syphilitic fever, various inflammatory modi- fications of nutrition are developed, which have a tolerably regular order of sequence, in different parts of the body. As manifestations of the blood-disease in operation, they are "secondary" or even "tertiary" to the chancre and thence the bubo, which, proceeding from the original source of infection, constitute " primary " syphilis. The slow-healing power of the primary sore, and of an. open bubo, somewhat suggest the prevailing character of these secondary manifes- tations. From the first moment of the pus-forming pimple, the whole career of syphilis is one of didntcgraiion of the tissues, with an abortive effort of the reparative power by plastic lymph-forming induration. Disintegration by desquamative or otlier destructive eruptions of the skin ; disintegration, by corroding ulceration of the tonsils, tongue, lips, palate, and perhaps the nose; disintegration, by iritis, with molecular lymph ; disintegration, by irreparable destruction of the texture of the testis; disintegration, by caries and necrosis. Premature baldness, fretting ulceration around the roots of the finger and toe nails, and a wan cachectic pallor, bespeak the consummation of syphilitic decay.