102 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. employment of other means, less intense, but more extensively ap- plied ; whether, for instance, ten inches of poultice may not be equiva- lent to four inches of blister, or to one inch of issue. In respect to thoracic inflammation, for example, where blistering is employed as a matter of routine practice, the unsurpassed clinical authority of Professor Skoda pronounces such treatment to be always useless, sometimes hurtful. Astringents prove serviceable in a congestive, and often chronic state of inflammation; the capillary vessels being distended and obstructed. A solution of nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of zinc —five or ten grains to the ounce of distilled water—may then be used with great benefit, as in congestive conjunctivitis ; and the relief afforded by an alum gargle in relaxed sore-throat, is another illustration of astringent applications. Cold douches probably act in like manner, by constringing the weakened and overloaded vessels of a part affected with chronic inflammation ; as the joints, for example. Friction oifers another resource, in a similar state of inflammation ; the act of rubbing with the hand, or shampooing, not only tending to unload the vessels, but also operating as a stimulant, to promote the circulation in the part. Hence friction may be aided by the use of some stimulating liniment or embrocation, as of camphor and olive oil. Pressure has the beneficial effect of supporting the vessels when in a relaxed state; but this means may also be combined with a stimulant application. Thus, the support of a bandage, or of simple strapping with soap-plaster spread on leather, may be exchanged for the em- plastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro; and either mode of treatment is often very efiicacious in chronic inflammatory afiections of the joints, breast, or testicle. CoNSTiTDTiONAii REMEDIAL MEASURES.—Systemic Uood-letting, by venesection. This mode of depletion has fallen nearly into disuse, in the treatment of inflammation. The explanation of this change of practice on the part of the Profession generally, is referable to two entirely different views, each having its partisans. According to one school, so to speak, the human constitution has itself undergone a great change in the loss of vital power, whereby febrile symptoms have altered from an inflammatory to a typhoid character. The late Dr. Alison was the champion of this doctrine. • On the other hand, it is contended that the principle on which blood-letting had hitherto been practised is opposed to Patho- logy, and that our more advanced knowledge of this science has led to its abandonment. This explanation is offei'ed and ably advocated by Dr. J. H. Bennett. Assuredly the change of practice has taken place, and experience sanctions its propriety in most cases. As to its interpretation; probably in regard to this, as to many vexed questions, both parties are partly right, and partly wrong. But it is not only in the present as compared with former practice, in one period as compared with another, that differences of opinion have prevailed respecting the remedial value of general bleeding in inflammation; it is no less remarkable, as Mr. Simon observes, that contemporaries living under the same sky, and practising in the same