LIGATUEE OF THE POPLITEAL AETERY. 547 The lateral relations of the artery are the mnscles bounding the pop- liteal space. (See Fig. 166.) This space is formed by an interval between the attachments of the muscles, behind the knee, to the condyles of the femur. The popliteal space is lozenge-shaped when the muscular boundaries are allowed to fall aside, by removal of the ensheathing fascia lata. The flexor or hamstring muscles of the thigh diverge over the lower third of the back of the femur to their insertion ; namely, the biceps, externally to the head of the fibula; the semi-tendinosus and semi-' membranosus muscles, internally, to the tibia, the sartorius and gracilis muscles also intervening between them and the femur; below, the fleshy heads of the gastrocnemius converge from their origin above the outer and inner condyles of the femur, and unite just below the joint,—but above the lower border of the popliteus muscle. The plantaris muscle also, arising from the line above the outer condyle under cover of the gastrocnemius, forms an additional lateral boundary to the popliteal space, externally. The popliteal artery extends through the popliteal space, and a little way lower down than its inferior boundary—the united heads of the gastrocnemius, for the artery terminates at the lower border of the popliteus muscle. A small branch of the obturator nerve, from the plexus in the middle of the thigh, descends upon the femoral artery, and into the popliteal space, on the popliteal artery. The popliteal vein and internal popliteal nerve—one of the divisions of the great sciatic—accompany the artery through this space, and beyond it; having the same extent as that vessel, or to the lower border of the popliteus. The vein is superficial to, and in contact with, the artery. Above the joint, it lies somewhat to the outer side of the artery; over the joint, it overlays and conceals the artery between the heads of the gastrocnemius; and under that muscle, it inclines across the artery lying to its inner side at the lower border of popliteus. The nerve, superficial to the vein, has the same relations to it, and thence to the artery beneath the vein. Thus above, the nerve lies to the outer side of the vein; over the joint, on the vein between the heads of the gastrocnemius ; and under that muscle, it crosses the vein—and artery beneath—lying to its inner side at the lower border of the popliteus. The external popliteal nerve—the other division of the great sciatic—descends obliquely outwards along the outer side of the space close to the biceps muscle, to just below the head of the fibula; having, therefore, no relation to the artery. Overlapped above by the muscles, bounding the space, especially by the semi-membranosus, the popliteal artery is thus concealed, as well as partly by the vein and nerve, and also by a quantity of fat, in which are embedded a few small lymphatic glands around the artery; over the joint, the artery—with the vein and nerve—is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia lata; but below the joint, by the gastrocnemius also, beneath which the small fleshy belly of the plantaris muscle crosses inwards over the popliteal vessels and nerve. The fascia lata, ensheathing the limb, holds the muscles together, and con- ceals the popliteal space; the line of separation between the muscles bounding the space, being indicated only by a slis^ht vcrHcal depression on the fascia lata, in the middle line. The small sciatic nerve descend-