351 HYSTERIA. Hysteric jjaiii iu the left side, sometimes on the right side, is more often met with in pale, thin young women, who are subject to leucorrhcea. And it may be questionable whether the pain is not, at least in some cases, an affection sympathetic of vaginal or uterine inflammation. Tympanitic distension of the abdomen is one of the most common forms of local Hysteria. The accumulation of flatus in the intestines o-ives rise to a general distension, which might be mistaken for dropsy of the peritoneal cavity, or for ovarian dropsy. But the absence of fluctuation, and the tympanitic sound on percussion, will plainly declare that we are dealing with a collection of air, and not of water; while the general character of the distension differs also from the more one- sided form of an ovarian tumour. And—as Sir B. Brodie remarks— a patient, when thus blown-up with wind, may actually float in a bath, instead of sinking as usual. This state of abdominal distension is connected with habitual constipation; the colon especially being in a torpid state, and more or less loaded with hardened lumps of fsBces— scylalce—which reside for some time within the cells of that portion of intestine. There probably undergoing decomposition, and being a source of irritation, gas is generated; and if, by breaking wind, some of it escapes, a reaccumulation soon takes place. Under these cii'cum- stances, a partial collection of wind, and its subsidence, may form one of those " floating-tumours," the nature of which is sometimes so doubtful. Turning to the genito-urinary organs, we find them the busy scene of many hysteric affections. Retention of urine often occurs ; not from any structural obstruction to the free passage of urine through the urethra, but from some failure of the power to expel, or, at least, the disuse of voluntary power,—an illustration of hysterical jparalysis. This may almost defy detection. But the absence of any other cause of paralytic retention, and the association perhaps of other hysteric symptoms, will guide the Surgeon's judgment aright on the question of diagnosis. When the bladder has been constantly over-distended in this manner, then retention may ensue from an enlarged and actually atonic state of the organ. Incontinence of urine, or an apparently involuntary micturition, is another form of Hysteria as affecting the bladder; the urine being shot out, at intervals, in a jerking stream. Retention and incontinence of this kind are far more commonly met with among female patients. But, in. males, I have occasionally found stricture of the urethra of a spasmodic character, depending on Hysteria. Other symptoms have been present in such cases, and the passage of a bougie has provoked a distinct hysteric attack. These forms of the disease, whether vesical incontinence or urethral stricture, may be regarded as instances of hysterical spasmodic affections. Hysterical miiscular affections are often witnessed in the form of contractions, which may be associated with spasmodic movements of other muscles. And in persons predisposed, these functional derangements are often induced by very trivial causes ; some mental emotion, as fright, grief, or surprise, such as, however, would not have unnerved a person of less nervous susceptibility; or some slight injury, unimportant in itself. Thus, Sir B. Brodie relates the case of a young lady only twelve years old, whose forefinger of her left hand was pncked with the point of a pair of scissors. This little punctured