753 DISLOCATIONS OP THE ELBOW. modification of, or consecutive to, dislocation of that bone, forwards or backwards. Age would certainly seem to have some predisposing influence relative, at least, to dislocation of tlie radius and ulna backwards. In fifty-six cases under Hamilton's observation, tbe average age was about twenty years, and twenty-two of the wbole number occurred in children under the age of fourteen. Unreduced elbow-joint dislocations are probably no exception to the pathological law of Dislocations in general: that the bones gradually adapt themselves to the particular displacement, forming a new articu- lation ; with more or less recovery of the use of the limb. An un- reduced dislocation of both bones backwards, and of seven years' duration, is depicted in Liston's " Surgery." The movements of the hand were considerably regained. The structural conditions acquired in such cases, as shown by dissection, have been noticed in some of the cases I have figured from original specimens. Reduced dislocations of the elbow generally result in a complete recovery of the use of the joint, within a few weeks. But in one of several exceptional cases under Hamilton's observation, a dislocation of both bones backwards was easily and promptly reduced in a lad eight years old; yet, six months afterwards, the arm had become bent to a right angle, and quite stiff at the joint. Four years later, the stiffness still continued, with only slight improvement. Treatment.—Reduction of all the dislocations to which the elbow- joint is liable, can be effected by the same method—bending the elbow over the knee—but those of the I'adius are, perhaps, better accomjplished in J'ig- 361. another way. (1.) Bending the elbow over the Icnee was the method recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Fig. 361.) The patient being seated on a low chair or stool, the Surgeon, resting one foot on the seat, places his knee in the bend of the dis- located joint; grasping the forearm,' he presses the knee against the inner side of the forearm to unlock the ulna from behind the humerus, and drawing or bending the forearm round the knee, the bones readily come forward over the articular end of the humerus, into posi- tion. The action of the muscles will, in fact, effect reduction when the bones are dislodged. This result is announced by a sudden jerk of the bones slipping into place, with a restoration of the natural confirmation of the joint, which may, however, be less perceptible owing to the surrounding swelling ; but the im- mediate mobility of the joint, so that the forearm can be bent upon the arm, even to a right angle, without pain, will be a further guarantee of reduction. Another method, which seems to be a modification of the precudixjfr