741 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDEB-JOINT. a few hours after the accident, by the superyention of swelling, both from inflammatory effusion and extravasation of blood ; the nature of the injury becoming more perceptible as the swelling subsides. This condition might mislead the Surgeon more readily, when the dislocation was caused by direct violence, in so far resembling simply a contusion of the shoulder. The Diagnosis of shoulder-joint dislocation, as compared with frac- hires of the neck of the humerus, may be determined by the presence of the signs common to all these dislocations, and the absence of true crepitus. Atrophy of the deltoid muscle, resulting from contusion or other injury, simulates dislocation only by the flattening of the shoulder, and the overhanging acromion. Causes.—Direct violence, as a fall on the shoulder, in the direction opposite to the particular form of dislocation. Thus, a fall from a height on the top of the shoulder may occasion dislocation downwards; upon the back of the shoulder, it may cause dislocation forwards ; and a fall on the front of the shoulder has been known to produce dis- location backwards, or collision of the front of the shoulder against a tree, in the case of a person being thrown from a horse. Indirect violence applied to the arm, when itself in a position favourable to the particular form of dislocation. Thus, forcible abduction of the arm may occasion dislocation downwards; and I have known it pro- duced, as a recurring dislocation in an elderly gentleman, by merely resting the fingers on a chest of drawers, the arm being fully extended. Violent contraction of the deltoid, in lifting a heavy weight, has also tilted the head of the bone downwards, out of the glenoid cavity. A fall on the elbow, the arm being directed backwards, may occasion dislocation forwards; and dislocation backwards has been produced by pushing a person violently, with the arm elevated. Spasmodic contraction of the muscles during an epileptic fit, was the cause of the former dislocation, in a case which Hamilton met with, and of the latter dislocation, in a case examined after death by Mr. Key. The causative relation of shoulder-joint dislocations to each other is worthy of notice. Dislocation forwards—subclavicular—may result as the completion of a subcoracoid displacement, which is then re- garded as a partial dislocation forwards. Or, the subclavicular dis- location may, it is said, be consequent on dislocation downwards. Sir A. Cooper regarded the former as a primary dislocation; other eminent Surgeons—^for example, Desault, Petit, Dupuytren, Mr. Hey, and Pro- fessor Samuel Cooper—did not deny the possibility of its being primary; but they believed it to be very seldom so, and almost always secondary to dislocation downwards. Unreduced dislocation of the shoulder-joint is followed by the slow formation of a new articulation, and destruction of the glenoid cavity ; with proportionate recovery of the use of the arm. Thus, in an old dislocation downwards—described by Sir A. Cooper—the head of the bone had become flattened, and a new shallow cavity had formed for the reception of the head on the inferior costa of the scapula anteriorly, a complete capsular ligament also surrounding the head; while the glenoid cavity was entirely filled with ligamentous matter, in which were suspended small portions of bone, evidently of new formation, as no portion of the scapula or humerus was broken. Reduced dis- location is followed by good recovery of the use of the arm; some