624 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. to a line drawn from the stemo-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It seems to have an inclination backwards, superiorly owing to the projection forward of the larynx, in that situation. The artery with the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve are enclosed in a common membranous sheath, continuous with the deep cervical fascia. The vein, within this sheath, is situated along the outside of the artery, a thin cellular partition only intervenino-; the nerve lies behind and between the two vessels. Thus so far isolated, Fig. 151.» the artery is deeply placed at the lower part of the neck, and more superficial above. Below, the sheath is covered by the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and crossed by the omo- hyoid muscle obliquely upwards just below the cricoid cartilage. Superficial to these muscles is the skin and superficial fascia, and a small portion of the platysma myoides as it passes upwards from the clavicle to the lower jaw ; the deep cervical fascia ensheathing the muscles and passing down behind them, continuous with the sheath of the vessels, into the thorax. Crossing the sheath is the middle thyroid vein. Above the cricoid cartilage, the artery is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, platysma and deep fascia. Crossing the sheath here are the superior thyroid veins, which sometimes form a plexus in this situation. The descendens noni, a branch of the hypo- glossal nerve, lies on the sheath of the vessels from above downwards, inclining from the outer to the inner side. Occasionally, this nerve rans within the sheath, and between the artery and vein. Posteriorly,. the artery throughout its course is supported by the transverse pro- * Common Carotid Artery, and its Branches.—a, common carotid; h, internal ju^ilar vein; c, internal carotid ; d, external carotid; e, upper thyroid branch; /, lingual; g, facial; h, internal maxillary. (From Quain, "Anatomy of the Arteries," part view, reduced.)