728 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The ligaments perhaps become firmly adherent to the neck of the bone, thus further opposing its reduction, and if the rent be small through which the bone escaped, it may be tightly embraced. Tliis is more apt to occur in a capsular ligament. Other ligamentous con- ditions are peculiar. The orbicular ligament around the neck of the radius may have been carried away entirely by dislocation of this bone, and be firmly attached at both ends to the humerus. A specimen of thi.s kind is preserved in tlie Museum of St. George's Hospital. The muscles which act on the displaced bone become permanently shortened, ■while their lines of action get accommodated to the displacement, and help to retain the bone in its new position. Or if any tendons were partially or entirely torn across by the violence of dislocation, they may have acquired new attachments, and such as are mechanically un- adapted to the action of the muscles. A ruptured tendon sometimes forms a band of adhesion between the bones. In one instance, the tendon of the brachialis anticus muscle having been torn off the coro- noid process of the ulna, which was dislocated backwards into the olecranon fossa, this tendon became firmly united both to the trochlear surface of the humerus and to the ulna below its original attachment, forming a kind of soft anchylosis between them. A tendon having its attachment thus displaced, is unfavourable to the action of the muscle connected therewith, yet its new attachment may aid in rendering the dislocation irreducible. Bony nodules form, occasionally, in the ten- dons around the seat of dislocation. Lastly, in these general changes, should be noticed the important one of adhesion sometimes having taken place between a large artery and the capsule or periosteum of the displaced bone. All these structural alterations take place very slowly. The de- structive changes implying an irreparable sacrifice of the articular cavity, I^ature reluctantly obliterates it, and with it the opportunity for reduction, only when long disappointed by delay and weai-ied by the lapse of time. Even after a period of thirteen years, in dislocation of the hip-joint, the acetabulum may still retain its form and depth and cartilage; as shown by a specimen which Fournier has recorded. The reparative alterations—those pertaining to the formation of a new joint—are most complete in ball-and-socket dislocations, as the hip-joint; the compensatory substitute for any hinge joint is far less complete. In some such instances even, bony anchylosis is the result. The Diagnostic Signs of unreduced Dislocation, and of the con- struction of a new joint, are—the physical signs of dislocation, coupled with restoration, more or less entirely, of the functional use of the limb or part. The characteristic alterations in the form of the joint, length of the limb, and direction of its axis, still remain; while the power of using it is regained, and proportionately as the new articu- lation is perfectly finished off. Hence, this restoration of function is, at length, far more thoroughly established in unreduced Dislocation of a ball-and-socket joint, than in that of a hinge joint. Treatment.—The question of interference should be determined by the moUlitj of the new joint, (a) When freely movable, the natural articular cavity or surface is probably obliterated, the processes of construction and destruction having proceeded equally. Hence, the indication is, wA to interfere—to leave such an unred'nced dislocation