ANEURISM OP CAROTID ARTERY. 495 Treatment.—Digital compression has been tried in five cases, and with successful results. Thus, by M. Rouge, of Lausanne, in the case of a man, aged sixty-eight, compression was effected laterally, the thumb being placed against the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, with the next three fingers under the posterior edge, so as to seize and compress the artery between them. In this way, pressure on the pneumogastric, which occurs when the carotid is compressed from the front against the sixth vertebra, was avoided; that mode of compression, if continued, being attended with great pain, which has proved to be the main cause of failure. The digital compression, as described, was continued for seventeen days, with periods of intermis- sion, for an average of seven or eight hours each day, when a successful result was obtained. Ligature on the cardiac side of the artery. This operation has certain important consequences relating to the brain, the lungs, and the aneurism. In 149 cases—tabulated by Dr. Norris—54, or more than one-third, died. Of these, secondary haemorrhage was the cause of death in 15 cases; gangrenous softening of the brain, with various disturbances of the cerebral functions, in 12 cases. The latter consequences evidently depend on the seriously diminished supply of blood to the brain by ligature of the common carotid trunk, leaving only the vertebral artery to carry on the circulation in the same half of the brain. The free anastomosis of arteries at the base of the brain, constituting the circle of Willis, does not seem to sufficiently compensate for this deficiency. But the consequences will of course be doubly perilous, if both common carotids be ligatured. The symptoms of cerebral disturbance are giddi- ness, paralysis, blindness, deafness, and convulsive movements ; followed by stupor, coma, and death. Inflammatory symptoms sometimes follow the operation. Softening of the brain ensues from mal-nutrition depending on defective circulation. The frequency of cerebral symptoms is attested by the statistics of Ehrmann. Of 187 cases, in which one carotid was tied, 42 were followed by some kind of cerebral disturbance. In 213 cases—including ligature of both carotids, and • those of the innominate artery—cerebral symptoms ensued in 47, or i about 22 per cent. The following conclusions, according to Mr. Erichsen, seem to be t established:—(1.) Ligature of one carotid artery is followed by cerebral t disturbance in about one-fifth of the cases, more than one-half of which « are fatal. (2.) Ligature of both carotids simultaneously, has always ] proved fatal; as in the two cases in which Mott and Langenbeck 1 ligatured these vessels, an interval of only a few minutes elapsing \ between each operation. (3.) Ligature of both carotids, an interval of some days or weeks elapsing, is not more frequently followed by cerebral disturbance than when only one is tied. (4.) Obliteration of t the vessels taking place gradually and successively, the patient may live; although one carotid and one of the vertebrals have been occluded ^'y disease, and the other carotid ligatured, as in the case related by Hossi. (5.) Occlusion of both carotids and both vertebrals may yet allow life to continue for a considerable period, as in a case recorded Dr. Davy, the cerebral circulation being maintained through the mediam of the anastomoses of the intercostals and internal mammary arteries.