730 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. regaining their bulk and strengtli. Respecting the hip and shoulder joints ; Sir A. Cooper's large experience led him to select two months in the one case, and three months in the other, as the extreme periods at which reduction can be safely accomplished. But the impossibility cf determining the propriety of surgical interference by reference to the period of an unreduced dislocation must not be overlooked In Fouriiier's specimen of hip-joint dislocation, the acetabulum retained its original character as an articular cavity after thirteen yearg had elapsed. Any opposing tendons, ligaments, or adhesions suggest the pro- priety of a previous accessory operation; that of dividing them, sab- cutaneously. Simple as this may appear, it is not always practicable, with a fair degree of safety to the part, and even to the life of the patient. Yet there are successful results on record. Thus, in dis- location of the thumb backwards upon the metacarpal bone, reduction may be impossible, unless by subcutaneous division of the lateral ligaments. Sir Charles Bell first proposed the operation in this case, and it has since been successfully practised by Listen, Reinhardt, Gibson of Philadelphia, Parker of New York, and other Surgeons. Lizars and Syme advocate this practice in certain instances. Au un- reduced dislocation of the shoulder-joint, of two years' duration, was overcome by DiefEenbach, in like manner. In one instance also, an old dislocation of the elbow, which still resisted after division of the tendons and ligaments, was reduced by dividing the adhesions. M. Blumhardt made a longitudinal incision on either side of the joint, laid open the capsule, freely divided the adhesions, and replaced the bones. The limb is said to have recovered its natural mobility, and the patient resumed his occupation as a carpenter. In cases such as these, the periods after dislocation at wliich opera- tions have proved successful are comparatively unimportant; for the difiiculties of reduction being thus overcome, the operation itself is the only important consideration, i.e., as to its propriety and practicability. CoNQKNiTAL DISLOCATIONS.—The wholc pathology of " Dislocations existing at birth " requires further investigation, in respect to their structural conditions, causes, and vital history. Congenital Dislocations are, apparently, of three kinds: {a) Physio- logical dislocations; or those resulting from an original defect in the germ, or from an arrest of development. (If) Pathological dislocations ; or those resulting from some lesion of the nervous centres, from contraction or paralysis of the muscles, laxity of the ligaments, hydrarthrosis, or some other diseased condition of the articulation, (c) Mechanical dislocations; or those resulting from some peculiar position of the foetus in utero, violent contractions or constant pressure of the walls of the uterus, falls and blows upon the abdomen, aud unskilful manipulation of the child in delivery. These might be termed traumatic dislocations. Probably all the joints are liable to congenital Dislocation, in some form or forms; and with regard to most of the joints, this kind of lesion has already been established by dissection. Hamilton has collected many such instances; but it appears to occur most frequently in the hip and shoulder joints. The Treatment of Congenital Dislocation is generally impradicaUe. What to do may be obvious; the removal of any one, or more, of the known conditions which originally produced the dislocation; but how