444 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. BURSiE AND SHEATHS OF TENDONS. CHAPTER XXIII. INFLAMMATION.—GANGLION. BrRSiE Mucosae. Synovial Bues^.—The bursae are synovial sacs, re- sembling other synovial membranes, and diftering only in situation. They are interposed between the surfaces of parts which naturally move on each other. Thus, they are situated, normally, as subcu- taneous bursfB, in the cellular texture between the skin and some firm prominence—e.g., the bursa over the patella ; or deep-seated, between a muscle or its tendon and bone, or between two muscles or tendons, and not unfrequently communicating with a neighbouring joint. Subcutaneous bursse may be adventitious, resulting from enlargement of the areolaa in the cellular texture by continued friction ; as beneath corns, bunions, the prominent points of club-foot, and other exposed situations. Such bursas are, however, imperfect; spaces being thus formed in the cellular texture, rather than bounded by any true synovial membrane. Situations of Normal Bwrsce.—In the following situations, burs^ exist naturally, and are subject, therefore, to injury or disease:— behind the angle of the lower jaw, on the symphysis of the chin, on the angle of the thyroid cartilage, on the acromion, between the lower end of the scapula and the latissimus dorsi, under the deltoid, on the external and internal condyles of the humerus, the olecranon, the styloid processes of the radius and iilna, on the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, their dorsal and palmar surfaces, and on the dorsal aspect of the phalangeal articulations; on the anterior superior spine of the ilium, the great trochanter, the tuberosity of the ischium, and under the gluteus maximus, on the patella, on each condyle of the femur, the tuberosity of the tibia, in the ham, on the two malleoli of the tibia, the OS calcis, the dorsal surface of the toes, and the plantar aspect of the heads of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. (1.) Bursitis.^—Inflammation of a bursal sac may occur, with enlargement and distension of the sac with synovial secretion. Sup- puration soon follows, and the formation of abscess, which bursts externally or into the sui'rounding cellular membrane. This texture is also liable to become involved as the abscess progresses. The resulting ulcerations are singularly obstinate. (2.) Chronic enlargement of a bursa, from long-continued pressure and irritation rather than inflammation, is another condition of com- mon occurrence. The bursa becomes distended with contents of variable nature, partly fluid and solid; as an increased sero-synovial secretion of clear straw-coloured fluid, or a brownish fluid, thick and grumous, apparently due to altered blood, or adhesive and containing cholesterinc. Fibrinous matter is sometimes deposited on the interior