259 SECONDARY OR CONSTITUTIONAL SYPHILIS. During the course of secondary syphilitic manifestations, certain facts respecting the accession of rigors and rises of temperature merit attention. In the eruptive stage, the pyrexia is sometimes associated ■with repeated rigors, as noticed by Lancereaux; and they may assume an intermittent character—quotidian, tertian, or double tertian. But this intermittent type of febrile disturbance is met with generally in the later stages of syphilis, when deep cachexia has supervened. The temperature rises, perhaps, from time to time, coincident with the ex- tension of skin-eruptions. In the later stages, when syphilitic affec- tions of the bones and joints have ensued, the observations of a committee of inquiry on temperature * led to some notable results ; that in the febrile disturbance which usually accompanies, and is pro- portionate to the amount of joint or periosteal affections, nocturnal exacerbations occur, the temperature rising from one to four degrees, with an equal morning fall. The association of rheumatoid symptoms with an equal outbreak of macular or papular eruption is accompanied with fever, but not with the oscillation of temperature. Iodide of potassium affects the fever remedially, the temperature being reduced within three days after its administration in sufficient doses. la pysemia, the oscillations of temperature much resemble those noted in syphilitic rheumatoid affections. Comparing (Secondary) Syphilis in all its various forms, with similar diseases arising from other causes, their resemblance is often remarkable, and their appearances differ rather in degree than in kind. Probably, therefore, none of the manifestations of (constitutional) syphilis, as secondary symptoms, are singly characteristic ; but a con- currence of such symptoms—secondary or consecutively—may be diagnostic. The descriptions given in Mr. Lee's elaborate treatise, with regard to syphilitic eruptions, for the most part amply confirm this general proposition. (1.) Skin-diseases.—Similar eruptions—exanthematoiis or rashes, papular or pimples, tubercular, squamous or scaly, vesicular and pus- tular—arise alike, as manifestations of constitutional syphilis in the skin ; and also under other circumstances. Roseola or rose-rash.—The eruption which usually first succeeds the syphilitic fever, is of a rose-red colour, not raised above the surface of the skin, disappearing on pressure, and returning as soon as the pressure is removed. It arises in the form of more or less rounded patches, giving a mottled appearance to the skin; when examined closely, each patch is seen to be made up of a cluster of papillae, more injected than natural. This eruption sometimes vanishes within a few days. If it persists, the papillas forming each patch generally become visibly en- larged, and the colour of the eruption gradually changes to a copper hue. This colour is commonly present in all syphilitic eruptions which remain for any length of time without suppuration or ulceration ; but it is not peculiar to (secondary) syphilitic eruptions, it is not pathog- nomonic. It is, observes Erasmus Wilson, commonly met with in chronic eruptions of other kinds—for example, in acne; and non- syphilitic eruptions often possess more of the dull and muddy copper colour which is generally supposed to be characteristic of syphilis, * "Trans. Clin. Soc," 1870. Report by C. Bilumber, A. B. Duffin, Berkeley