GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 48 of most of its eruptions, however otherwise diversified their appear- ance may be—as rashes, scales, papules (pimples), vesicles, pustules; and most conspicuously is this the character of solid tubercular swell- ings, such as occur in secondary syphilis. The shape of inflammatory swelling is also a mixed result, principally due to the kind of structure into which effusion takes place ; partly, however, to the kind of matter effused. If thin serum, the swelling will be fluid, fluctuating, and diffused; if coagulable lymph be poured out, it will be more solid and circumscribed. I shall not attempt to describe the various degrees of density or consistence which inflam- matory swelling presents, as resulting from the combined influence of the kind of matter effused, and that of the receiving structure. These alterations may be of two kinds: softening, chiefly in connection with acute inflammation, and induration, chiefly in consequence of chronic inflammation. The diagnostic value of inflammatory swelling is not equal to that of redness. It is necessarily a later sign than redness, which always precedes effusion by an important and often appreciable period of time. Iritis is announced by injection of the ciliary arteries and a zone of redness around the iris, before the perilous effusion of lymph. Erysipelas spreads with a red blush before the disorganizing engorge- ment of the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Regarded as an exact sign, although some degree of swelling invariably follows inflammatory determination of blood, and although the nature of an obscure swelling is assured, if not by its physical properties, at least by puncture, and if necessary by further examination of the material of the swelling with the microscope; yet these guarantees of identity are the only unequivocal advantages of this sign. Unlike redness, it is no measure of the degree of inflammation. The most intense may produce a trivial swelling in an unyielding texture, and a trivial degree of inflammation will soon exhibit considerable swelling in a loose tissue. Subject to these disqualifications, swelling is the more valuable sign, practically speaking, of inflammation. It can be discovered when the redness cannot be seen. In all superficial textures and parts, swelling can be readily detected. The skin, cellular texture, muscles, periosteum, bone, blood-vessels, and lymphatics, and the component tissues of the joints, severally present each a characteristic swelling when inflamed. Certain internal organs are also open to examination, e.g. the pelvic viscera, excepting the bladder. Thus, inflammatory enlargement of the prostate, or the uterus, and thickening of the rectum, can be felt, and possibly seen. Certain other organs are, indeed, beyond the reach of vision and the direct application of the hand, yet the ear can then detect effusion and swelling by means of percussion, as of the liver, gastro-intestinal canal, and spleen; and this may be aided by ausculta- tion, as of the heart and lungs. (4.) Pain.—Observe the influence of swelling. No sooner has the first contribution toward swelling been made by persistent distension of the vessels of the inflamed part, than pain, or at least exalted sensibility—tenderness—is induced by the blood's influence on the nerves of that part. The degree of pain from this cause will be regulated by both the elements which determine the amount of hyperoemia—that is to say, will be proportionate to the determination of blood, and the number of vessels in the part; but the number of sensory nerves