SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 376 (1.) Astringents.—Oold may be applied in various ways; in tlie form of a stream of cold water, or by exposure to cool air, or by means of an ice-bag, or as ice-water. Cold applications arc most eligible for the arrest of general bleeding from a large surface, or in the event of per- sistent oozing hasmorrhage; and where the bleeding proceeds from an internal cavity, as the mouth, rectum, or vagina, when it may be ar- rested by the injection of ice-water. After a wound has been closed and dressed, the recurrence of ha3morrhage can often be stopped, either by a continued or a dropping stream of cold water by means of irrigation, or by the application of an ice-bag. Styptics are various astringent agents ; such as styptic colloid, tincture of the perchloride of iron, Ruspini's styptic, oil of turpentine, solution of alum, tincture or infusion of matico. These agents are used by means of a brush or a fold of lint soaked in the styptic, and applied to the bleeding surface. Other styptics may be ,admimstered internally; as gallic or tannic acids, lead, opium, or turpentine. All such agents are appropriate Tinder similar circumstances of haemorrhage to those for the employ- ment of cold. But external styptics are apt to induce a thin layer of slough, and thus prevent or intercept primary union. And internal styptics are hardly prompt enough in their action. Solid opium, given in a full dose, is accredited with the virtue of arresting any oozing of blood from a number of small vessels, after wound or operation. The hemorrhagic diathesis also may perhaps be controlled by. oil of tur- pentine. (2.) Cauterization may be effected by the actual cautery, or hot iron —the most ancient resource in surgical hemorrhage, or by theiwtential cautery, in the form of potassa fusa or nitrate of silver. The actual cautery usually consists of an iron rod, having a conical-shaped or button extremity, the other end being set in a wooden handle. The iron is heated in the fire to a black heat, rather than made red-hot, and the point is then applied, almost momentarily, to the bleeding vessel, which causes a hissing sound, and produces an eschar, or slough, of the burnt textures. Other forms of actual cautery are sometimes employed; a porcelain instrument heated by gas, or platinum heated by means of the galvanic battery, the galvanic cautery. Cauterization is most serviceable when the haemorrhage proceeds from one or more arterial points, and in an otherwise inaccessible situation. But on the detachment of the eschar, in about a week, bleeding is liable to return. (3.) Compression—mediate, as it is sometimes termed, when not directly applied to the bleeding vessel—may be effected either by the finger or a tourniquet, placed over the parent artery, at the most eligible spot betwixt the wound and the heart. Pressure thus applied is only a temporary resource. Immediate compression is effected by pressure directly applied over, or to, the bleeding vessels. Direct pressure may be made over the seat of the bleeding vessels by a pad of dry lint or other material, secured in position with sufficient firmness by a roller-bandage. A wound having been thoroughly cleansed and closed, haemorrhage can thus be arrested; and after amputation, the flaps of the stump can be compressed with a broad pad above and below, retained by the turns of a bandage. Cavities admit of being plugged with a pledget of lint or piece of sponge, saturated perhaps with some B typtic solution; as in bleeding from the nares, rectum, or vagina, or from