Ill INFLAMMATION. vation may prove salutary during an attack of common inflammation, and as surely injurious if tlie inflammation be scrofulous. "When we have to contend with acute inflammation, and desire to prevent or arrest the deposition of coagulable lymph, our object is, after such bleeding as may have been proper, to bring the system as speedily as possible under the influence of mercury. " We know that the whole system has been brought under the specific influence of mercury, as soon as its efilects become even slightly perceptible in the gums and breath of the patient; and in adults we cannot be sure of it before. These symptoms are enough; you need not in general look for any more decided affection of the mouth, such as ulceration of the gums, swelling of the glands beneath the jaw and the tongue, and a profuse flow of saliva All that is requisite is, that the gums should become distinctly tender, and that the mer- curial foetor should be unequivocally manifest, and that these symptoms should be kept up for a certain time. Now this is best effected, usually, by giving some form of mercury in equal and repeated doses by the mouth. For urgent cases, calomel is the best form in which it can be administered; two or three grains given every four or six hours, will generally sufiice to touch the gums in the course of thirty- six or forty-eight hours. If it act as a purgative, its specific effect upon the whole system will be postponed by that circumstance; and it then becomes expedient to combine it with just so much opium as will prevent it passing off by the bowels. A quarter of a grain of opium with two grains of calomel, or a third of a grain of opium with three or four grains of calomel, will generally be sufficient to restrain the purgative operation of the latter. When a speedier effect is desii-able we give larger doses; such as five or ten grains every three, or even every two hours ; or we combine mercurial inunction with the exhibition of calomel by the mouth. It is impossible to lay down any precise rule that will fit all cases. Blue pill, or else the hydrar- gyrum cum creta, may, in certain cases, be preferable to calomel; but they must be given in greater quantity. "Mercury is of great service in many cases of chronic inflammation; and I may repeat here the observation I formerly made when speaking of blood-letting—that the treatment must keep pace, as it were, with the disease. When textures have been slowly altered by a gradual deposition of coagulable lymph, we should gain little or nothing by suddenly or speedily salivating our patient. The lymph, if it can be dispersed at all, must be gradually taken up again: and mercury, given with the view of promoting its absorption, must be slowly and gradually introduced into the system, and its specific influence, when at length it is felt, must be sustained for a considerable length of time." Certain evil consequences are apt to follow the use of mercury. In fact, the symptoms of systemic infection by this mineral have a general resemblance to those of constitutional syphilis, or systemic infection by the syphilitic virus. But as, in most cases, the unfavour- able action of mercury is fairly attributable to its immoderate or pro- longed administration—an error of rare occurrence now-a-days—it is scarcely necessary to consider the treatment of mercurial poisoning. Profuse salivation is, however, an exception which merits attention. Some persons are very easily salivated. In one case—related by Dr.