SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEaERY. 744 extension, nnder the influence of chloroform; aided, perhaps, by pulleys for making extension, which should be slowly maintained. Dr. Jarvis's " adjuster " has proved effectual when other means have failed. Its principal advantage is that during extension, the limb can be moved about freely in all directions, without relaxing the extension. The periods after dislocation when reduction has been accomplished, vary as to their extreme duration; a month, in one of my own cases ; after twenty-five weeks, by Mr. Brodhurst; after seven months, and ten months and a half, by Mr. Smith, of the United States. Dieffenbach accomphshed the reduction of a dislocation forwards after two years' duration; but not until he had cut the tendons of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, teres major and minor, and had divided the ligaments surrounding the new joint. The extreme period for the safe reduction of dislocation is probably best determined by observing the movements afforded by the new joint; and which indicate also the probable utilitij, or otherwise, of reduction, although itself practicable. Accidents, of a most serious character, are liable to happen in the reduction of old standing dis- locations ; laceration of the muscles and tendons, rupture of the axillary vessels and nerves, or fracture of the neck of the humerus. Or inflam- mation may speedily ensue, with suppuration in and around the joint. These lesions, or consequences, sometimes occur apart from any inconsiderate application of extending force. Compound dislocation of the shoulder-joint is a rare form of injury. Erichsen mentions having seen two cases, and in two directions of dislocation : inwards—subcoracoid, and downwards—subglenoid ; to which may be added one more, into the axilla, as recorded by Hamilton among his own cases; and a compound dislocation of the shoulder by Sir A. Cooper. Treatment.—Reduction was effected in both Mr. Erichsen's cases, and they did well. The question of amputation must be determined by reference to the considerations which render the sacrifice of the limb inevitable in Compound Dislocation, generally; and principally, regarding the injury to the axillary vessels and nerves. Complicated Dislocations of the Shoulder-joint.—(1.) Displacement of fhelong head of the biceps muscle, and Supra-glenoid Dislocation.—In a few instances only, the long head of the biceps has been found displaced inwards from the bicipital groove, and the head of the humerus partially dislocated upwards above the glenoid cavity,—resting under the acro- mion or the coraco-acromion ligament. This anomalous form of double displacement was first verified by dissection in a case described by Mr. John Soden, jun., of Bath, and which is recorded in the " Royal Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1841. An injury to the right shoulder-joint was produced by a fall backwards, the whole weight of the body being received on the elbow. When the intense inflammatory swelling of the shoulder had subsided, the following symptoms were presented:—A globular swelling, as if the head of the humerus beneath the acromion process of the scapula, with slight flattening of the shoulder ; and some crepitation could be felt, when the shoulder was grasped above, and the arm was raised upwards and outwards,—this sensation arising from the attrition of the head of the bone beneath the acromion; but the movement of abduction was limited, and the power of such motion was nearly lost. Thus, the man could move his arm backwards and for-