368 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Professor Lister, who lias mainly originated antiseptic treatment, enlarges this aspect of the principle, thus:—"An antiseptic to exclude putrefaction, with a protective to exclude the antiseptic, will by their joint action keep the wound free from abnormal stimulus." This principle may he fulfilled as follows :— (1.) Exclusion of aii- from a wound may he effected by simple water-dressing, as already described; care being taken to apply the dressing so as to form a close covering, and which is enveloped in oiled silk. Or, the air may be Ts^ithdrawn by an exhausting receiver, as has been tried in France. (2.) Antiseptic dressings of various kinds have been employed; and as a process of treatment, comprising many details, apparently essential to its success as a specific method, this has been named by Professor Lister the "Antiseptic System of Treatment." (a.) The "protective" should possess several properties; it should be a material impervious to carbolic acid, and unstiniulating in its own substance; at the same time, it must be insoluble in discharges, and sufficiently supple to apply itself readily to the part. Various materials have been tried and discarded ; as a metallic plate, itself impervious, but when made of block tin, it was too rigid, and tin-foil soon wears into holes. Grutta-percha soon transmits carbolic acid. The "pro- tective " Lister now uses is oiled silk; prepared by having a thin coating, brushed over it, of a mixture consisting of one part of dextrine, two parts of powdered starch, and sixteen parts of cold watery solution of carbolic acid—1 to 20. (5.) Antiseptic " lac-plaster " is laid evenly over the protective and should extend freely beyond the wound; and over both, the part is enveloped with a cloth, to absorb any discharge Avhich may ooze from beneath the margin of the impermeable plaster, the cloth being secured in position by a roller-bandage. The plaster now used is incorporated with a soft cloth, instead of being spread upon starched calico. It is thus made more flexible and durable, but very thin; so that a double layer may be advisable, to double the store of acid in the application, when much discharge is anticipated, or when the dressing is not to be removed for some time. " The carbolic oil," and " carbolic paste or putty," formerly employed and advocated by Mr. Lister, he now seems to have almost abandoned. More recently, however, to complete the antiseptic appliances which may be requisite in the treatment of wounds, he has devised " antiseptic ligatures " of prepared catgut, for securing blood-vessels, and " antiseptic sutures," for retaining the lips and surfaces of a wound in contact. Previously to applying the solid antiseptic dressing, above described, the wound is well syringed out with "carbolic solution or lotion," as strong as it can be made ; one part of the crystals to twenty of water. The transient irritant property of this strong solution is said to be fai- less objectionable than the abiding influence of the more acrid products of putrefaction ; even although the solution be thrown into the interior of a large joint, as in the dressing of a compound dislocation of the ankle-joint. A weaker lotion, one to forty, will suffice, in dressing a recent, and surgical, wound. The shin around a wound is well washed with the lotion. Then, the protective, lac-plaster, outer cloth and bandage, are severally applied. ReaxJiMcation of the dressing may be required, or advisable, occa- sionally ; iu the intervals, the bandage and cloth may be daily mois-