GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 320 rabid until seventy days had elapsed; information the more valuable, since Mr. Cooper bimself watched the case from beginning to end. In Lord Fitzwilliam's pack the disease appeared at various intervals, from six weeks to six months. We may therefore conclude, that an animal bitten by another in a rabid state should be chained up for a longer period than the experience at Alfort would suggest as an adequate preventive_ in junction—imprisonment for six weeks. Preliminary to ^ this question is another—the commwiicability of hydrophobia or rabies among animals and man,—a consideration essen- tially relating both to its propagation and prevention. Many facts tend to show that the communicability of this disease depends on the inherent capability of the animal affected to engender it spontaneously; failing which, he may bite in vain. The dog can generate rabies, and therefore can communicate it to another animal, or to man, in the shape of hydrophobia. Sheep, horses—^the herbivora—and man cannot generate the disease, and therefore cannot communicate it. Thus, rabies in a flock of sheep, consequent on the bite of a rabid dog, is not communicated from one sheep to another, although the sound are often bitten by the diseased, and in parts stripped of wool (Dupuy). At the Alfort Veterinary School three sound sheep, two dogs, and a horse were inoculated with the saliva of a rabid horse; not one of them became affected. In keeping with this view, man cannot communicate hydrophobia. By the experiments of Vaughan and Babington, animals were inoculated with the saliva of hydrophobic patients, but without any effect. In an exceptional experiment by Magendie and Breschet, one dog of two thus inoculated became affected; but this animal might have been previously diseased, especially as rabies was rife at the time. Paroisse inoculated three dogs with the saliva of a man in hydrophobia; the animals were kept and watched for nearly four months afterwards, during all which time they remained quite unaf- fected. Similar experiments were conducted by Gauthier, Giraud, Girard, and Bezard, with the same negative results. Lastly, there is no instance of one human being acquiring hydrophobia from another labouring under this disease, although in many instances attendants have been bitten by such persons. In conclusion, the general inference to be drawn from these facts is this—that in estimating the danger to human life incurred by the liberty of rabid animals, those only which can generate rabies, e.c/., the dog, are dangerous; and the disease acquired by inoculation, from one animal to another, as by the bite of a dog to a cat, is transferred with its original intensity. The human species affected with hydro- phobia is harmless, should there be any tendency to bite. Such considerations, coupled with a due knowledge of the duration of latency in different animals, particularly the dog, suggest adequate precautionary restraint; while, in the event of hydrophobic virus having been communicated to man through the bite of a rabid animal, the prevention of the disease then impending is fulfilled by free excision of the part bitten, as soon as possible, aided, if necessary, by cupping. Curative treatment will be utterly useless, although it may be possible to palliate symptoms and prolong life. This may perhaps be effected by the plan of treatment recommended by Marshall Hall and Todd. It consists in removing all causes of irritation, bodily and mental, as by placing the patient in a darkened room, cxcludiug any