121 INFLAMMATION. Ulceration—as depending on inflammation—may be arrested by counteracting any of the constituent elements of inflammation, which, are still in operation. Local antiphlogistic treatment, including rest and an elevated position of the part, is indicated. During reparation, the process of suppurative granulation needs little or no assistance. Warmth and moisture, by means of a light poultice or spongio-piline epithem, may be continued while the chasm is filling up; rest and position being still observed. S aperfluous organizable material—pus— is discharged; and when the granulations have grown to the level of the skin, and are no longer suppurative, the aid of a poultice may be discontinued. Water-dressing, simply to exclude the irritating action of the air, is then alone necessary. This application should be ex- changed for some slightly stimulating wash, if the pale and flabby state of the granulations suggests the propriety of so doing. A weak solution of sulphate of zinc answers very well. The pressure of a bandage will aid its eifect, and repress any exuberant growth. Sloughing and gangrene are, in like manner, amenable to local anti- phlogistic treatment, with the view of arresting the process of de- struction. Effusion—always an essential constituent of inflammation—is here the element, in particular, to be counteracted or its effect overcome. The relief of tension is imperative. Hence, incisions as free as may be necessary, are the primary indication of treatment. Its efficacy is witnessed in phlegmonous erysipelas and carbuncle. The process of separation of the living from the dead textures, must be encouraged. Warmth and moisture, by a poultice or spongio-piline epithem, or the more stimulating action of a yeast poultice, will be highly serviceable, both in limiting the sloughing and inducing the detachment of slough. The latter kind of poultice has the advantage of destroying the foetor of decomposing textures. Charcoal in powder, chlorides of lime or zinc, and carbolic acid, are also valuable antiseptic applications. It should, however, be remembered that any stimulant application may overact, and by hurrying on the inflammation beyond that requisite for the ulcerative severation of textures, would cause the gangrene to spread. The line of separation having formed, the detachment of slough has yet to take place. During this period, its extraction prematurely would be attended with hcemorrhage, perhaps considerable. Nature may be aided gently, from time to time, by slight manipulative interference, here and there. Finally, the removal of slough is an obvious indication which can hardly be overlooked. Dead soft textures are easily withdrawn by the finger or forceps; a sequestrum will require to be extracted from the encompassing sheath of new bone. The healing of soft textures, subsequently, is by granulation; and the treatment that for a simple healing ulcer. Thus ends the local treatment of inflammation, in its consequences, productively and destructively. The treatment of the concomitant constitutional disorders—hectic fever, arising from suppuration, and the typhoid fever arising from gangrene—is represented by those constitutional remedial measures which come into use as the inflammatory fever, declining, is suc- ceeded by general weakness and excitement. Stimulants and tonics on the one hand, with opium, and a nutritious diet, constitute the resources referred to.