SPECIAL PATnOLOQY AND SURGERY. 414 but it may happen during a period from that time up to the twentieth or thirtieth day, when any ligatures separate, and commonly about the fourteenth day. At those times, therefore, the application of a tourniquet around the limb, in readiness to be tightened at a moment's notice, will always be a judicious precaution, but only as a temporary measure to arrest the htemorrhage. Ligature of the bleeding vessel or vessels is imperative, and without delay. This should be done in situ, if possible ; or when impracticable, then by ligaturing the main trunk; or that failing to command the haemorrhage, amputation is the only resource. A general oozing of blood, or " parenchymatous hemorrhage," maybe subdued by dilute solutions of perchloride or per- sulphate of iron, or other astringents. Any loose fragment or speculum of dead bone, as an accidental cause, should be removed; although, sometimes, not without the danger of provoking erysipelas. The probability of gangrene supervening, and thence the propriety of amputation, and the question whether it should be primary or secondary, are subject to the same or analogous considerations as with regard to contused and lacerated wound, and to compound fracture or dislocation. (7.) Amputation.—When a limb is the seat of gunshot injury, requii'ing amputation, the evil consequences of delay are vividly portrayed by Sir Charles Bell, in the following course of such cases: ■—" In twelve hours, the inflammation, pain, and tension of the whole limb, the inflamed countenance, the brilliant eyes, the sleepless and restless condition, declare the impression the injury is making on the limb and on the constitutional powers. In six days, the limb, from the groin to the toe, or from the shoulder to the finger, is swollen to half the size of the body; a violent phlegmonous inflammation, with serous effusion, has taken place in the whole limb, and abscesses are forming in the great beds of cellular texture throughout the whole extent of the extremity. In three months, if the patient have laboured through the agony, the bones are carious, the abscesses are inter- minable sinuses, the limb is undermined and everywhere unsound, and the constitutional strength ebbs to the lowest degree." Keeping in view a clinical history such as this. Surgeons are now generally agreed on the great advantage of primary, instead of secondary, amputation, in gunshot injury, an advantage which is fully borne out by statistical results; but the only question has been the kind or class of cases requiring amputation. The following conditions of gunshot injury may be enumerated, as those which justify amputation, according to the " Report of the United States Commission," 1864. (Hammond's MUitary Essays.) (1.) Cases where a limb is nearly or completely carried away, leaving a ragged stump, with laceration of the soft parts, and projection of the bone. (2.) Cases in which the soft parts of a limb are extensively lacerated or contused, the principal arterial and nervous trunks destroyed, and the bone denuded or fractured, (3.) Cases in which a similar condition exists, without either fracture or denudation of the bone. (4.) Cases of compound and comminuted fracture, particularly those involving joints. . . (5.) Cases in which the ball does not actually penetmte the joint,