COMPOUND DISLOCATION. 725 the interosseous membrane. All the flexor muscles, superficial and deep, were torn across, partially or entirely, sparing their tendinous and aponeurotic portions, wbich appeared deep in the wound as so many shreddy strings from which the muscular substance had been raked off. All the vessels and nerves, however, excepting, of coarse, their muscular branches, had escaped rupture; the ulnar nerve, the inferior profunda artery accompanying it above the joint, and the ulnar artery in the forearm, the median nerve with its interosseous branch and the corresponding branch of artery, and lastly, the radial artery and nerve. But the skin was almost completely detached from the sheath of the muscles on the front and back of the forearm, and some way above the joint. The large tract of subcutaneous cellular texture thus dis- organized was infiltrated with blood, not discernible through the skin, which appeared unbruised. A small contused aperture just above and behind the inner condyle communicated directly with the joint, con- stituting a compound dislocation. This extensive injury was caused by severe contusion and a lacerating wrench between the buffers of two railway carriages. (2.) Secondary amputation, when the extent of damage done by the injury being itself partial, the supervention of gan- grene or of profuse suppuration is only proportionately probable, and the limb, therefore, not inevitably lost, nor the life perilled. Such post- ponement of aftiputation is justifiable to give the limb its chance of preservation by delay ; while the preservation of life is provided for by timely amputation, when the adverse circumstances, alluded to, actually supervene. The rules laid down in surgical works, with reference to the extent of injury, are not the expressions of a sufficiently accumulated pathological experience, in different doubtful cases ; and they over- look the necessarily unknown capabilities of reparation in different individuals. Cases occurring, from time to time, which have proved exceptional to any such rules, suggest the all-important consideration,— in how many more cases might limbs be saved which are thus sacrificed surgically ? No extent of injury, as to the vessels, nerves, muscles, and integu- ments—short of the whole substance of a limb being involved—in ■ connection with compound dislocation, can be said to absolutely pro- hibit the attempt to preserve the limb, in the first instance. Thus, compound dislocation of the knee-joint was pronounced by Sir A. Cooper to be a condition of disorganization which imperatively ■ demanded primary amputation. Exceptions, occasionally, have since I disproved that dictum, in this form of injury. In the case of a boy, nine years of age, at the Westminster Hospital, Mr. White succeeded in saving the limb, by sawing off the condyles of the femur and reducing the bone. In the ankle-joint, the end of the tibia may be removed and reduction accomplished ; a proceeding which I remember Mr. Listen : advocated more than thirty years ago. A person jumps out of a I carriage behind, while the horse is running away, and alighting on 1 his feet, the tibia of either leg may be driven through the integuments, i and perhaps come in contact with the earth. Eemoval of the bruised 1 portion of bone will facilitate the reduction, and has proved successful I in preserving the limb. Dislocation of the astragalus, in like manner, may be similarly treated. In two cases of compound dislocation of 1 the foot inwards, one of which was complicated with compound fracture