274 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. jected to the same treatment, would thus expose the surface, after separation of the eschar, to re-inoculation, as in the case of chancroid upon the margin of the prepuce, with phimosis concealing a chancroid within. Excision is rarely so successful as cauterization. Even when per- formed freely enough to insure extirpation, and with the precaution of removing any contagious matter, the wound is liable to become re- moculated, forming a larger contagious sore than the original one. Hence, removal with the scissors or knife is eligible only in certain parts; as in the case of chancroids fretting the margin of the prepuce or the border of the labiae of the vulva, where the instrament can be carried sufficiently wide of the uloers. The fresh surface should then be touched with caustic, to form a protective eschar. Phimosis, complicating sub-preputial chancre or chancroid, may be a congenital malformation, or acquired by induration or inflammatory engorgement. Destructive cauterization can be df no use, when chancre, thus enclosed, has become indurated, systemic infection having already taken place ; and with chancroid, the phimosis being of an inflamma- tory character, any such treatment might induce gangrene. But the part should be regularly cleansed, by syringing the prepuce with tepid water, or with a weak astringent solution, as the nitrate of silver, five or ten grains to the ounce. The operation for phimosis—that of slitting up the prepuce—in order to make any direct application to the chancroid, would be an improper procedure, from the liability of thus converting the wound into a larger chancroid ulcer, cases of which have happened. It will be observed that the abortive treatment of chancroid, chancre not being thus controllable, has regard not only to the in- dividual affected; it is also the surest preventive measure, socially considered, by extinguishing the source of contagion. As a public preventive measure against the propagation of primary syphilitic infection, the " Contagious Diseases Act" for the periodic inspection of different classes of the community, was recently insti- tuted ;—a similar legislative enactment to that which is in operation in France. As might be anticipated with reference to a procedure of such nature, its expediency has been strenuously advocated from a sanitary point of view, and an extension of the Act urged, by numerous scientific supporters; and it has been equally denounced, on moral and social grounds, by irreconcilable opponents. The Government has wisely declared its intention of abiding the result of the most complete inquiry. The curative local treatment of chancre, as a specific sore, is best accomplished by mercury. It may be applied in the form of mercurial ointment, spread on lint, and laid on the sore ; or as a lotion—the lotio nigra, consisting of calomel and hme water, in the proportions of ^i. to 3vi.; or, by calomel fumigation, locally applied, as suggested by Mr. Lee. Five or ten grains of calomel may be volatilized over an ordinary fumigating lamp, and the ulcerated part should then be held directly over the vapour, until the white powder is fully deposited on the sore, where it must be allowed to remain. Cha.ncroid having been destroyed by free cauterization, it becomes a simple healing ulcer, which needs only the protection of water- dressing. Various lotions, of a stimulant or astringent character,