SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. 801 still further diminishes the cavity. Anchylosis of the osseous surfaces completes this process of recovery, but leaving the limb much wasted, the muscles having undergone fatty degeneration, so that the joint appears conspicuously enlarged. Rarely, the synovial membrane itself is restored to a healthy state; ahsorption taking place, and the articu- lation remaining structurally sound. Two or three years may have been spent in any such course of natural cure. Treatment.—Remedial measures must have regard to the consti- tutional condition, and hence the treatment of Scrofula is here appropriate. Local treatment consists in absolute rest of the joint, and the observance of a suitable position in the event of anchylosis. Hence, the use of a properly adapted splint may be, or become, necessary. Counter-irritation should be applied cautiously, by means of iodine paint, or occasional blistering. The actual cautery is, how- ever, strongly urged by Mr. Barwell, when enlargement of the joint is proceeding without any notable inflammation. The iron should be white hot, and applied in lines, about an eighth of an inch broad and three inches long, parallel to the axis of the limb. Four such lines are recommended for the knee, two on each side of the patella, at least an inch apart; dry lint being then applied. This proceeding re- sembles the " firing " of a joint, as practised in veterinary surgery. The advantage of counter-irritation, by means of the actual cautery and as thus applied, is said to be not only its derivative effect, but the pressure which ensues from the contracting cicatrices. "When the swelling is reduced to a passive state, Scott's dressing may bo used as a means of counter-irritation, and the plaster affords more support. Friction and gradtial motion will then finish off the disease, and restore the use of the joint. Ulceration of the articular cartilages, with abscess and destruction- of the joint, may be followed by anchylosis, and a useful limb, under continued treatment by rest and position; but the destructive result of scrofulous synovitis will more probably necessitate the removal of the diseased part, either by excision or amputation. The latter operation may be sometimes imperative, owing to the constitutional exhaustion rather than the extent of the disease. Loss of limb will then be alter- native to the loss of life; the patient, otherwise, inevitably sinking under prolonged hectic. ScEOFULOus Disease of the Joints, or scrofulous inflammation and caries of the cancellated structure of the articular ends of Bone.— A disease of chronic character.—Structural Condition.—The alterations of the cancellous structure in this state of disease are fully described in Diseases of Bone. The changes alluded to may be summed up as inflammation and consequent caries; differing only from ordinary in- flammation of bone in the nature of the products associated with the disintegrative transformation. At first, the cancellous structure is simply more vascular than natural, then it becomes softened and porous ; while the cancelli are filled with a reddish gelatinous fluid, and ultimately an opaque, friable, tuberculous matter. (Fig. 413.) Caries appears frequently in separate points of the cancellous tissue, which, gradually extending, coalesce. At variance with this received view respecting the pathology of scrofulous caries affecting the articular ends of bone, Dr. Sayre, of New York, refers this disease to an extrava- sation of blood in the cancellous tissue immediately beneath the arti- 8 F