LIGATURE OF THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ABTERY. 651 extensor brevis digitorum, externally, or wliicli may pass over it to tbe great toe Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artbrt.—Surgical Anatomy.— Continuing the popliteal artery from its bifurcation at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, the posterior tibial thence extends to the lower border of the internal annular ligament; there terminating in two plantar arteries for the sole of the foot. Its direction, at first, is vertical midway between the tibia and fibula, but inclining inwards it descends over the lower end of the tibia, posteriorly, and then in the middle of Very deeply placed 170* /a B the hollow between the inner ankle and heel, above, under the muscles of the calf, it becomes more superficial, behind the tibia and inner malleolus. The posterior tibial artery lies at first on the tibialis posticus muscle, but passing inwards, on the flexor longus digitorum and lower end of the tibia and ankle-joint. In the upper half of its course, the artery lies hetiueen the tibialis posticus and the fleshy bellies of the gastroc- nemius and soleus muscles, which conceal it; in the lower half, it lies between the tendo Achillis and inner margin of the tibia. (Fig. 170.) Behind the inner malleolus, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is external, and the tendons of the tibialis and flexor longus digi- torum are between the artery and the malleolus. Two vencB comites surround the artery with cross communicating branches. The posterior tibial nerve (Fig. ] 71), a continuation of the internal popliteal at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, lies internal to the artery for about one inch and a half; but crossing to its outer side, it continues to have that relative position down the leg to the interval between the malleolus and heel, there lying immediately to the outer side of the vessel, between it and the tendon of the flexor pollicis. Covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles, as far as the middle of the leg (Fig, 170), the artery below is covered only by the skin, superficial and aponeurotic fascia. The annular ligament—a thickened band of the aponeurosis—stretches across between the inner malleolus and os calcis. It sends inwards three sheaths for the tendons of the flexor muscles; an inner one for the tibialis posticus, behind which is another for the flexor longus, and ex- ternally, near the os calcis, is a third for the flexor pollicis. * Muscles of the calf of the Leg; Vessels and Nerves.—A, gastrocnemius, cut; B, soleus; o, plantaris ; d, somi-membranosus ; ic, somi-tendinosus ; f, tendo Achillis; a, popliteal artery; h and e, articular branches; d, internal saphenous vein; c, external saphenous. 1. External popliteal nerve. 2. Internal popliteal. 3. Short saphenous, out. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections.")