DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 751 Signs.—Certain characters are common to all dislocations of the elbow, a resemblance which renders it convenient to take these in- juries consecutively, in regard to their signs, as showing more clearly their diagnosis. Dislocation of the radius and ulna laolaoards presents a projection of the elbow posteriorhj—corresponding to the extremities of both bones, and of the olecranon in particular; with another projection, the end of the humerus in front of the elbow. (Fig. 359.) There is also some shortening of the forearm, with semi-flexion at an obtuse angle, or approaching to a right angle occasionally, and semi-prona- tion; with loss of the motions of flexion and extension, pronation and supination, but an unnatural lateral motion can generally be produced. Fig. 359.» Dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards is characterized by an unnatural projection externally—the head of the radius, with a pro- minent projection internally,—the inner condyle ; while dislocation of the radius and ulna inwards is distinguished by the opposite characters —a projection internally of the olecranon, and prominence externally of the outer condyle. The forearm is shortened laterally—on its inner aspect, by inclination to that side, in outward dislocation; and on its outer aspect, by in- clination to that side, in inward dislocation—or the whole forearm is shortened longitudinally, in either of these dislocations upwards. In both, there is also semi-flexion, and semi-pronation. The speedy supervention of swelling, in these and other dislocations of the elbow- joint, will often render the nature of the injury more or less obscure. Dislocation of the radius and ulna forwards would seem to be characterized by disappearance of the olecranon posteriorly, and the detection of this process and the head of the radius in front of the elbow; with shortening of the forearm upon the arm, semi-flexion to a right angle, and marked supination. If accompanied with fracture of the olecranon, there will be some mobility and crepitus. - Dislocation of the ulna alone, backwards, would probably be re- cognized by projection of the olecranon, the head of the radius being felt to rotate in its place; by the inclination of the forearm to the ulnar side, with partial flexion, and complete pronation. If accompanied •with fracture of the coronoid process, there will be considerable mobility, the dislocation readily disappearing and recurring, with crepitus. ♦ Koyal Free Hospital. (Author.)