TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 175 less exhaustion, and the less liability to erysipelas or pyemia; the dis- advantage is, the pain, severe and persistent. Various caustics have been employed; the concentrated mineral acids, sulphuric or nitric, or the solid caustic alkalies,—potash or lime, and various chlorides, that of zinc especially. Of all these, the glacial sulphuric acid mixed with powdered saffron, forming a black paste, is preferred by Velpeau, particularly in fungoid and bleeding cancers. The caustic alkalies combined, form the well-known Vienna paste. The chloride of zinc mixed with flour readily forms a paste by deliquescence. If a liquid caustic be used, the surrounding skin should be protected by a barrier of gutta-percha or other similar material attached to the skin. If chloride of zinc be used, the skin, which resists this agent, must previously be destroyed by sulphuric or nitric acid. The depth to which the action of any such agent extends and the destruction of the tissues accordingly, will depend on the strength and quantity of the caustic employed. But the result can only be roughly estimated. The slough produced varies in appearance witb the kind of caustic employed ; a dry, hard, contracted blackish eschar, resulting from the application of a strong mineral acid; a wet, pulpy slough, from chloride of zinc. It separates after a time, a few days to a month, disclosing a healtby granulating surface, but perchance, of prodigious depth and extent. Other modes of applying caustics have, therefore, been devised. The repeated introduction of chloride of zino through incisions daily made deeper and deeper, affords a precaution for limiting the slough to the depth and extent of the cancer. This plan of treatment was first practised in this country by Dr. Fell, of the United States; a report on which was drawn up by the Medical Staff of the Middlesex Hospital, in 1857. Another mode is to under- mine a cancer with caustic, introduced through narrow passages pierced with a seton needle. Of all these caustics, my own experience inclines to the chloride of zinc, which I first saw used by Mr. Listen, many years ago, and the efficacy of which has since been attested by its results in some cases. In the ulcerated stage of cancer, disinfectants become requisite, for the double purpose of cleansing the sore, and of counteracting the effects of that peculiar fcetor which would otherwise encompass the patient in a self-created poisonous atmosphere. Charcoal or yeast poultices, and lotions of chloride of lime or carbolic acid, are thus beneficial. I can speak favourably of the latter poultice and lotion. They were remarkably efficacious in the case of a large cancer spring- ing from the arm and involving the shoulder. Ulceration having commenced in front of the axilla and subsequently in other parts of the tumour, the odour would have been intolerable to the patient but for these appliances. (6.) Gongelation.—The continued application of intense cold, is another means of destroying a cancer. Used in conjunction with caustic, congelation mitigates the pain, without diminishing the cauterization. Freezing is, alone, far less effectual. When most successfully practised, its destructive action extends not deeper than an inch; the only advantage then being the freedom from pain during and even after this process. As a method of treatment for cancer, it was introduced by Dr. James Arnott. Pounded ice may prove sufficient; but a mixture of ice, salt, nitrate of potash, and hydro-