FRACTURE OP THE SACRUM. 646 pelvis and thigli, to fix the joint. Angular extension is recommended by Dr. Bigelow, who then applies an angular splint, with the limb suspended vertically; or, he observes, if in any manoeuvre reduction is effected, the limb should be retained, if possible, in the attitude which completed the manoeuvre. (2.) Feacture of the Sacrum.—Exceedingly rare, fracture of the sacrum may, however, occur in conjunction with that of the innominate bones. The fi'acture then takes place at any part of the sacrum, and in any direction ; but it may Fig. 245. happen independently, and then generally below the sacro-iliac articulation, and transversely across the bone. In this condition, displacement is almost always the same ; the coccygeal extremity being driven forwards, without probably interfering with the rectum or anus. A slight lateral devia- tion is sometimes produced. Far more rarely, the fracture is vertical, or conjoined vnth a trans- verse fracture, of which I have found only one instance. (Fig. 245.) One line of fracture passes transversely across the junction of the first and second sacral vertebras, and communicates with other fractures which detached the upper angles of the first. Another line of fracture passes downwards from the first sacral foramen, on the left side, through the whole length of the body of the sacrum, and the first portion of the coccyx. No union has taken place. The patient, a lad aged eighteen, fell from the top of Holyrood Palace, a height of 76 feet; and in addition to the above injury, there was a compound dislocation of the ankle, with fracture of the astragalus, a dislocation of the humerus, and concussion of the brain. The only sign of the fracture of the sacrum was severe pain in the loins and back. Abscess formed over the sacrum, and communicated with a large intra-pelvic abscess.—Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 981; also the "London Medical Grazette," vol. v. p. 508. (R. Liston.) The Signs kre an angular projection backwards at the line of frac- ture, and corresponding to the displacement forwards, mobility and some crepitus; with pain, greatly aggravated in any attempt to bend or elevate the body, and especially acute in any efforts at defsecation. Causes.—Fracture of the Sacrum arises from the same causes as that of the innominate bones; and from blows or falls on the sacrum itself, in fracture transversely below the sacro-iliac articulation. Course and Termmation.—If fracture of the sacrum occur in con- junction with fracture of the innominate bones, the accompanying lesions of the pelvic viscera generally prove fatal. Fracture of the sacrum alone is usually followed by a speedy recovery, although the inward displacement cannofc often be completely overcome. Treatment.—The displacement may be corrected by passing a finger into the rectum and pressing back the coccygeal portion of the sacrum; but great difficulty will often be experienced in retaining it there. Various contrivances have been resorted to for this purpose, such as the introduction of a wooden cylinder, or other form of compress, within the bowel. Any such body must be removed every two or three