SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. vol. i. C3G Fracture of the tip of the process would not be attended with dis- placement. Mobility of the process, and crepitation, in the bend of the elbow, will confirm the diagnosis. Causes.—External violence is probably the only caase of this frac- ture. Direct violence, as crushing injuries of the elbow, will, of course, break the coronoid process, or any other part of the elbow- joint exposed to such force ; but indirect force, as a fall on the palm of the hand, may possibly fracture the process in conjunction with dislocation backwards. Muscular action—that of the brachialis anticus —is commonly regarded as being sometimes the occasion of fracture: but the accuracy of this received opinion is doubtful; Hamilton even alleging that there is no evidence of the coronoid process having ever been broken by muscular action. Ligamentous union seems to be the mode of reparation; and in the case dissected by Sir A. Cooper, the band was so long and flexible as io allow the fragment to move upwards and downwards in the motions of flexion and extension. Bony union may occur; but, perhaps, only in fracture at the base of the process, and if, fortunately, it be unaccom- panied with much displacement. Treatment.—Flexure of the forearm to a right-angle is the most favourable position for union. This position may be retained by means of an angular splint, and the forearm carried in a sling, for about ten days ; care being taken to prevent anchylosis by timely removal of the splint, and use of the sling alone for two or three weeks more. It has been recommended to continue the splint for a longer Fig. 233.* period ; Sir A. Cooper keeping the limb immovable for three weeks, and Velpeau extending this period to four weeks. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Elbow- joint.—The bones which enter into the formation of this joint are liable to fracture, severally, or in conjunction. The olecranon—exposed to external violence—is more often broken, and perhaps also the coronoid process, with the adjoining portion of the shafts of the ulna (Fig. 233); or perhaps the articular end, or the epiphysis of the humerus ; or one or both condyles. (See Figs. 226, 227.) The bones are comminuted, often extensively, and with contusion rather than laceration of the integuments. The injured joint feels like a bag of bones, crepitating under manipulation, or movements of the joint, which is singularly loose and movable. One or two trifling wounds, at the back of the elbow, or near the condyles, communicate with this disorganized state of the joint; which results from direct violence. More extensive laceration of the soft parts accompanies the fracture, when occasioned by gunshot wound. * St. George's Hospital Mus., iii. 13. Fracture of the olecranon, transversely, and of the adjoining portion of the shaft of the ulna, by comminution, detaching the coronoid process through the sigmoid cavity of the bono. These injuries were caused by direct violence—a blow from a falling beam. Amputation in the arm was followed by recovery. On examining the joint, the articular cartilages and synovial membrane were found to be diseased; the latter in the form of tufty pendulous growths, and a loose cartilage drojtpcd out, produced apparently by growth f)!" one of the tufts connected with the synovial membrane. Sec also Lancet, 1850,