SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 842 tendons of jiU tlie contracted muscles; both the tibial tendons, and the tcndo-Achillis. This procedure may be accomplished in one operation. But, in extreme cases, the compound deformity must be overcome by a double operation; first, section of the tibial tendons, and of any promi- nent band of plantar fascia, thus to rectify inversion, coupled with the application of mechanical eversion; then, secondly, after the lapse of a month in the case of infants, or from two to four months for adults, the tendo-Achillis is divided. The advantage gained by this two-fold procedure—first recommended by Dr. Little—is that, in the interval of the two tenotomies, the calcaneum affords a resting-point, fixed by the Achilles tendon, from which to stretch out and unfold the contracted and involuted sole of the foot. Otherwise, incomplete recovery often results; in fact, a secondary talipes calcaneus may be produced, which deformity it will be difiicult or perhaps impossible to overcome. The operation—according to Dr. Little's precise directions—^is thus performed; taking the tendons conveniently in order, as posterior tibial, anterior tibial, tendo-AchiUis. The child being laid upon its back, with the limb rotated well outwards, an assistant holds the knee securely, and the Surgeon, seating himself in front, takes the heel of the foot in his left hand, and abducting the foot with his right hand, puts the posterior tibial tendon on the stretch, and with sufficient prominence to feel it under the left thumb; or failing in this way to find the tendon, in a fat subject, the guide will be from the inner margin of the tibia, a line drawn exactly midway between the anterior and posterior borders of the leg, on its inner aspect. Then, entering a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife about a finger's breadth above the lower end of the inner malleo- lus, and close to the margin of the tibia, it is passed perpendicularly to a depth of a quarter to half an inch, and an opening made in the fascia; a probe-pointed tenotome is then introduced between the tibia and the tendon, and this is divided by a slight lever-like cutting motion with the knife, while the assistant firmly abducts and depresses the inner border of the foot. A sudden jerk more or less plainly announces the division of the tendon. The puncture is closed with a dossil of lint. This operation may be completed with one knife instead of two; but in fat children it will be safer to substitute the blunt-pointed knife in dividing the tendon, lest the posterior tibial artery be wounded, as in talipes varus the tendon lies unusually close to the vessel. This accident, however, has happened in the most experienced hands. The arterial hfemorrhage can be readily arrested by a compress and bandage, which should be continued for three weeks, before beginning extension. Velpeau divided the tendon at its insertion into the scaphoid bone, observing to insert the knife to meet the tendon about an inch below and in front of the inner malleolus, on the adult foot. In infants or children, this method would be impracticable. Next in order, the anterior tibial tendon is divided, the assistant abducting the foot, while a sharp-pointed tenotomy knife is entered flatwise, near the outer edge of the prominent tendon, opposite the inner malleolus ; passing the blade beneath the tendon, the edge is turned forward and elevated, as the skin is guarded by feeling with the finger of the left hand, until the tendon yields with a snap. A dossil of lint is placed over this puncture also. Lastly, the tendo-Achillis is divided in the manner already described. But here again the posterior tibial artery is in danger; the tendon, in some cases, being drawn inwards by the adducted state of the foot.