MODERN SURaERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. chance of any relief by one organ compensating for the functional deficiency of the other, as in the case, sometimes, of the lungs. The state of the skin must also be taken into consideration before undertaking any operation. A cool, moist, soft, perspiring skin is no less conducive to success, than a free secretion of healthy urine. Chronic diseases of the skin, such as lepra or psoriasis, involving a larse extent of the cutaneous surface, had better be treated before proceeding to any surgical operation which can be postponed. Pregnancy does not prohibit any surgical operation, excepting in so far as this state may thereby be itself affected. In the case of a lady advanced in pregnancy, I have removed a large slough from the abdo- minal wall by incision, without disturbing the course of pregancy ; but, on another occasion, in the same person, the removal of necrosed bone from the scapula, under the influence of chloroform, was followed by a miscarriage the next day. Idiosyncrasy, or some unknown constitutional condition peculiar to the individual, may prove singularly prejudicial to the success of even a trifling operation. Thus, in one case, after removing a small fatty tumour from the abdominal wall, on the following day the adjoining integument presented a sphacelated black patch, with an abundant, thin suppurative discharge from between the lips of the incision. Local conditions unfavourable for operation relate to any diseased state of the part itself, which will tend to produce an unsuccessful result. Thus, acute inflammation of a joint, for example, would be adverse to excision; and a sloughing condition of the parts involved in the flaps of an amputation, would defeat the purpose of this operation. Cancer, or disease of a malignant nature, should never be removed, unless the whole disease can be freely extirpated. Any portion beyond the reach of operation will necessarily cause a return of the disease, in situ; an important consideration, in addition to the question of proba- bility as to the development of cancer in some distant part. Hygienic Conditions.—Besides the state of health, constitutional and local, by which a patient may be in an unfavourable condition for opera- tion ; the hygienic circumstances in which he is placed, both before and afterwards, will much affect the probability of success. Adverse hygienic conditions comprise chiefly: Defective Diet, in quality, quantity, or in both respects ; Overcrowding of the sick and wounded, especially those having open and suppurating wounds, or Deficient Ventilation, associated with which is the Exclusion of Sunlight; Defective Drainage; Exposure to Contagious or Infectious matter, by dressings or inhalation, as in the propagation of Hospital gangrene and erysipelas. Some of these adverse circumstances, relative to operation, require further consideration, beyond what ordinary ex- perience would suggest. Deficient Ventilation.—The minimvm space allotted to patients in the Surgical Wards of an Hospital should be 1600 cubic feet of air to each person. And this quantity must be accompanied with change of air also, by proper ventilation. In different Hospitals, the number of cubic feet of air per bed varies considerably. Civil Hospitals range the highest; in England, the wards of Hospitals with relation to the number of beds, are calculated to allow an amount of space varying from 600 to 2000 cubic feet per bed, and in London the allotment is increased even to 2600 cubic feet; in the Hospitals of Paris it is less—