DEGENERATIONS. 197 the textures, is obviously not pigmentary degeneration. Sucli is tte black matter found in the lungs and bronchial glands of colliers and others who habitually inhale smoke. The colour of this matter is not discharged by hydrochloric acid or by chlorine ; a point of distinction between it and the pigment of morbid origin, which disappears under the influence of these chemical agents. Pigmentary degeneration occurs frequently in the mucous mem- brane of the stomach and intestines of old persons, and is recognized by slate-coloured discoloration of this texture. So also in cases of dysentery. Of new tissues, intestinal cicatrices not unfrequently present the same appearance. Deposits of ttibercle eventually become surrounded with black pigment-matter. New growths may be infil- trated with this matter, as commonly occurs in encephaloid cancer; or pigment may be deposited by itself, and accumulate in the form of a distinct tumour, as melanosis. (3.) Fibrous degeneration would appear to be an evolution of one structural constituent of the transformed texture—the fibrous element —at the expense of another constituent, which itself has undergone degeneration and disappeared; leaving its surviving companion more conspicuous, and the representative of the originally compound texture transformed as if entirely by degeneration. Muscles are the chief seat of this fibrous transformation, and especially the voluntary muscular texture. In the course of that general and natural wasting of the body which denotes old age, the voluntary muscles especially become paler and more fibrous, as seen after death; though softer, because less contractile, during life. This senile atrophy is characterized by wasting of the muscular fibres, while the interstitial fibro-cellular tissue thus becomes more apparent, forming a condensed sinewy texture, instead of muscle. As felt during life, the tendons seem to have encroached upon and substi- tuted the muscles. By this shrinking, and by that consequent on the disappearance of subcutaneous fat, the rounded outline of youth is lost in the shrunk shanks of the lean and slippered pantaloon. Apart from this textural transformation incident to age, it is ques- tionable whether fibrous degeneration occurs otherwise than by the deposit of interstitial exudation-matter. The muscular texture is still a chosen seat. Of voluntary muscles, those of the limbs may acquire a fibrous condition, as the result of chronic fascial rheumatism; the intercostal muscles and diaphragm also, in chronic pleurisy ; while fibrous degeneration of organic muscular texture is exemplified by that of the heart after endocarditis or pericarditis. Membranous textures likewise are peculiarly liable to this change, apparently by interstitial deposit. Hence, probably, the opaque white thickenings of serous membranes which are seen as patches in the cardiac reflexion of the pericardium, in the valves of the heart, in the pleura, in the peritoneum, especially over the liver, and in the arachnoid. Other accredited examples of fibrous degeneration are certain indurations produced by interstitial fibrinous effusions, as in the interstitial cel- lular tissue of parenchymatous organs—the liver, kidneys, spleen, or lungs—constituting cirrhosis ; or in the submucous or subcutaneous cellular texture; the latter, so-called degeneration, being that in- duration of this tissue which is occasionally witnessed in a newly-born infant.