477 ANEURISM. Treatment of Traumatic Aneurism.—The requisite operative pro- cedures here also are governed by the pathology of this lesion. In the first instance, traumatic aneurism is always a diffused and more or less pulsating collection of blood, communicating with an artery; this escape of blood having taken place, by a puncture or laceration, more or less complete, of the vessel; and with, or without, an external wound of the integuments. Such being the essential con- dition of traumatic aneurism, if the tumour be also enlarging, if it be diffused and diffusing, the immediate and total arrest of the heemor- rhage is necessary. For this purpose, no partial arrest of the current through the wounded artery, no mere retardation of the passage of blood, will suffice, as for idiopathic aneurism, in its early or circum- scribed state. The whole force of the circulation through the artery must be taken off, ere the haemorrhage will cease, and the diffused aneurismal tumour cease to spread. Ligature, therefore, of the artery above and helow its wounded point is the treatment indicated. This, however, is easier said than done, in most cases. A free incision into the tumour will expose the half- coagulated blood and commingled textures, when the mass can be readily tui'ned out; the recurrence of hsemori-hage during this pro- cedure being guarded against, by an assistant compressing the artery on its cardiac side, and as near the tumour as is practicable. Having sponged the bottom of the cavity thns made, the bleeding orifice may be seen at once, or it will be discovered by a spirt of blood, when com- pression on the artery above is slightly, and momentarily, relaxed. This is the point for which the Surgeon seeks. The vessel must then be secured, by tying it on either side of the aperture ; or if divided, by tying both ends. Here especially, difficulty is encountered; owing perhaps to the locality of the artery, and also to its disorganized, although not degenerate state, as in idiopathic aneurism. Tailing to effectually control the haemorrhage, plugging of the cavity, from the bleeding aperture outwards, will be necessary to completely arrest it. And this additional safeguard is unobjectionable, as the wound can only heal, for the most part, by granulating from the bottom. If a traumatic aneurism has become cirmmscrihed, thereby evincing a decided tendency to natural cure, then indeed the lesion so far resembling an idiopathic aneurism, it may be treated accord- ingly, by merely retarding the force of the circulation through the aneurismal artery. Compression, therefore, of the artery above the aneurism, or perhaps direct compression ; and ligature on the cardiac side only, and at some distance from the tumour—i.e., the Hunterian operation—are both eligible resources. If the circumscribed aneurism be of small size, compression alone may prove sufficient to retard the passage of blood; or that failing, the Hunterian operation will probably be an effectual check. This operation is often far more conveniently performed than any application of a ligature near the tumour. Thus, in the palm of the hand, where it would be difficult and hazardous to apply a ligature on either side of an aneurismal tumour, the brachial artery has been ligatured for a small circumscribed traumatic aneurism over the ball of the thumb, and cure was accomplished. The application of a ligature, still on the cardiac side alone, but near the aneurism, is not forbidden by any structural condition of the artery. This jjroccdure—Anel's operation—is appropriate, provided