GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 208 ulcer, the epidermis is thickened, and perhaps indurated, forming a somewhat raised border, shelving down to the thin bluish-looking line of circumferential new cuticle. (Fig. 75.) The surface having reached the level of the skin, by granulation, and the formation of pus—superfluous organizable material—having ceased; cicatrization proceeds inwards by the continued formation of Fig. 75.* marginal skin, preceded by cuticle, and thus, at length, exhibits the characters of healthy cicatrix, in the recent state. (See also Reparation by Grranulation.) Treatment.—Little or no positive treatment is requisite, a healthy ulcer healing spontaneously, provided any circumstances adverse to the process of reparation be excluded. Rest, position, to prevent tension and any undue determination of blood, and protection of the surface by water-dressing, are sufficient. Shin-Grafting may be here noticed; a principle of treatment due to M. Reverdin, whereby the cicatrication of a granulating surface may be completed, and in a much shorter period than from the cir- cumference alone; as when the ulcer is of large size, or indolent; or in order to prevent contraction of the cicatrix, as after bums, which would result in deformity and functional inutility of the part. The procedure of skin-grafting is as follows :—A very small portion or particle of healthy skin is excised from some part of the body, as the thigh, and transplanted by laying it on the surface of a granu- lating ulcer, as on the leg; the particle of skin being there retained with a fine strip of adhesive plaster, or perhaps better, simply by overlaying it with a small piece of wet lint. The excision is easily accomplished by raising the bit of skin up with fine forceps, and paring it off with a scalpel, or snipping it off with sharp scissors; or an instrument, combining forceps and scissors, has been devised for this purpose. In removing the particle of skin, its depth should not extend into the subcutaneous fat, or produce hardly an appear- ance of blood from the spot. The surface of the granulations may be freshened with the point of the knife, and so as to imbed or graft the transplanted portion ; but it is better merely to lay the particle of skin down, there retaining it in easy contact with a layer of lint. Several bits of skin may be thus grafted, according to the size of the ulcer. The changes which any such reproductive centre under- * Cutaneous ulcer of the leg. Section magnified 100 diam. (After Forster.) —a, the cutis; h, the surface of the ulcer; c, the thickened and raised border of epidermis.