270 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. but to their concurrence. In like manner, other circum.stances may tend to corroborate our diagnosis. The fact of primary syphilis, present or antecedent, has its weight—the weight of an additional probal)ility, concurring. We look for the remains of a presumed chancre or chancres, and probably, also, the vestiges of a bubo or buboes. The diagnosis of constitutional syphilis—thus clearly illustrating the diagnostic value of concurrent symptoms—is the species of evi- dence on which rests the diagnosis of most other blood-diseases ; and, indeed, of diseases generally, the evidence of which is symptomatic. Blood-pathology of Syphilis.—Syphilis, secondary or constitutional, so-called, is essentially a blood-disease ; the evidence being, partly, the " number of textures " affected with some form of mal-nutrition—as of the skin, mucous membrane, iris, periosteum, bone and testicle; partly, the "migratory" character of these local affections—from skin to mucous membrane, to the iris, thence to the testicle, or to periosteum and bone; and partly, the "symmetrical" character of some sucli local affections; occasionally, also, their "serpiginous," or creeping nature, as phagedaanic ulcerations of syphilitic origin. But the last two characters would seem to indicate some determining power in the textures, respecting the particular locality and form in which a par- ticular blood-disease shall manifest itself. Lastly, syphilis is capable of being propagated by "inoculation," thereby inti'oducing the materies morhi into the blood. The blood-pathology of syphilis shares the obscurity of other blood- diseases with few exceptions. The microscope exhibits nothing re- markable ; chemical analysis, at present, brings nothing to light. The potent virus works unseen, being known only by the commotion it occasions. As when a diver has disappeared beneath the surface, we watch the troubled waters, without seeing his operations in the deep; so likewise the syphilitic virus having dived into the blood, we know nothing of its doings there, only that it throws up some eruption on the skin or mucous membrane. Moreover, as the debris and bubbles thrown up by a diver cannot be distinguished from the commotion pro- duced by some monster sporting in the deep; so also the scales and pustules of syphilis are subsequent and equivocal signs of the kind of poison at work. But the virus has not hitherto been detected in the blood; nor does inoculation with syphilitic blood manifest any charac- tei'istic results. Ricord failed to discover inoculable pus in the blood, even in veins nearest the chancre. MM. Ricord and Grassi first noticed " a decrease of the globular element in the blood of persons affected with syphilis arising from the simple or non-infecting chancre ;" and indurated chancre also is apparently followed by a diminished proportion of globules, while the albumen increases. Gausatiue relation of Local to Constitutional Syphilis; and the Unity or Duality of the Syphilitic Virus.—Of the two forms of Local Syphilis vifhich have been designated Chancres, opinions differ respecting their causative relation to Constitutional Sypliilis. It would be impossible within the limits of this part of the work, to discuss the evidence and arguments pertaining to this vexed question. Ricord and his school maintain that only one form of local syphilis —the indurated chancre—is the source of systemic infection, that it is tlie infecting sore, and that it invariably produces constitutional syphilis ; but that the non-indurated or soft chancre is always a