714 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. difference being due to the particular shape of the articular surfaces. The primary displacement is made more complete, especially in orbi- cular-joint dislocations, by tonic contraction of the muscles subsequently. Signs.—Dislocation is attended with a corresponding defacement or deformity of the outline of the joint; as represented by dislocation of the shoulder-joint, downwards into the axilla. The natural prominences of bone near the articulation either disappear, or are less conspicuous, as the great trochanter at the hip-joint; or they may be more promi- nent, as the acromion, in dislocations of the shoulder. The length of the limb is altered, and especially if the dislocation be complete. Elongation, or shortening, is produced; according as the head of the displacement bone happens to be lodged below, or above, the level of the articular surface on which it naturally moves. The possibility of either, or of only the latter, alteration of length taking place is deter- mined by the form of the articulation. An orbicular joint allows of dislocation in any direction from its circumference; upwards, down- wards, forwards, backwards. Hinge joints cannot allow of displace- ment in more than three directions ; backwards, forwards, and laterally, to the right or left. The direction of the dislocated bone, and thence of the limb below, is characteristic. Certain muscles being thrown out of action, by displacement of the portion of bone to which they are attached; others, thus acquiring a mechanical advantage, preponderate. The natural balance of opposing muscles, as flexors and extensors, is lost, and the limb acquires that particular attitude to which the pre- dominant muscles direct it. To these positive signs may be added two negative ones : immobility of the limb, which gradually supervenes, in proportion to the tonic contraction of the muscles; and also the absence of crepitation. A false crepitation can sometimes be felt, owing to friction of the articular head of the bone on the torn ligaments and tendons ; unlike the rough attrition of the bone-ends in fracture. The extravasation of blood gives rise to the appearance of ecchymosis or bruise, as the blood becomes subcutaneous; but this may not take place for some days after the dislocation. Bruising will, of course, be more immediate and conspicuous where dislocation is produced by direct violence to the part, as by a fall on the shoulder. In examining a dis- location, the limb should be compared with its fellow; at least, in any doubtful case. Pain and inability to use the limb are functional sym- toms of Dislocation, but of equivocal value in aid of determining the nature of the injury. Diagnosis.—The pain may be insignificant at first, before swelling supervenes ; and in oft-recurring dislocation, where the ligaments and muscles are weakened, especially in an old feeble subject. The power of motion may be retained under similar circumstances, for the tonic contraction of the muscles is insufficient to fix the limb. But if both pain and powerlessness are present, they may each rise from other causes than dislocation ; from fracture, sprain, a bruise, or rheumatism. The physical signs of Dislocation are each, in various degrees, in- variably present, and are almost exclusively connected with Dislocation. It is only as compared with Frac-ture in the neighbourhood of a joint that Dislocation can be confounded. But, firstly, the outline of the joint is different, otherwise than in exceptional cases. Thus, dis- locations of the hip-joint may be distinguished from fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, by this sign; so also, dislocations of the