ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 201 EETEOGRESSION OF THE STRUCTUEAL ELEMENTS OF TEXTURES. (1.) Bj the deposition of new matter— a. Directly substituting the original structural elements, which have themselves disappeared. Fatty and Pigmentary degenerations, respectively. h. Interstitially deposited, and accompanied with the absorp- tion and disappearance of these elements. Fibrous, including amyloid or waxy degeneration. Granular degeneration. Calcareous degeneration. (2.) By chemical transformation— a. Of the original structural elements. Fatty degeneration of muscle. (Dr. R. Quain.) 1. Of interstitial exudation-matter. Fatty degeneration, in many cases. (Dr. J. H. Bennett.) (3.) By atrophy of one structural constituent of a compound texture, and the evolution thiereby of another constituent. (The author.) Fibrous degeneration of muscle. (The author.) (4) By disintegration— (The author.) a. Of the original structural elements. Granular degeneration, so named, of fibrous textures. h. Of interstitial exudation-matter. Granular degeneration, so named, of fibrous new for- mations. By chemical precipitation, analogue of disintegration. Calcareous degeneration, so named. (Rokitansky.) Retrogression of textural structure, by Degeneration—morbid, only when it occurs prematurely—represents, as I have said, the relapse or falling back from a higher condition, to a lower or more elementary grade of textural structure ; and which substitutes the proper con- stituents of the original texture. This relapse and substitution are the essential characteristics of Degeneration. CHAPTER IV. ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. Death of any part of the body, as contrasted with its nntx"ition, is ( essentially a disintegration of the constituent elements of structure and 1 resolution into molecular matter; the destruction of the organization ' which resulted from development; the falling to pieces of that which t the formative power had constructed. Disintegration, like Degenera- t tion, therefore denotes both a process and its result in the destruction I of structure.