214 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. "monstrous size," and constitutes what has been named by sailors " bullock's liver." ^ Treatment.—B,Qgardmg a scorbutic ulcer as but a manifestation of the blood-disease—scurvy, the appropriate treatment is that which pertains to this disease; and having regard to its apparent dietetic cause, namely, the deprivation of fresh vegetables, remedial measures will consist, chiefly, in their restoration. Hence the well-known efficacy, preventive and curative, of potatoes and of lemon or lime juice. This dietetic treatment may be aided, medicinally, by the mineral acids and bark ; and, as a topical application, a lotion of dilute nitro-muriatic acid has an astringent and cleansing effect on the ulcer. (9.) Scrofulous or Strumous Ulcers.—Consequent on the ulcera- tion of a scrofulous tubercular swelling, or the opening of a scrofulous abscess, the ulcer is remarkably indolent, yet its characters are unlike those of the ordinary indolent ulcer. Large, pale, flabby granulations, sometimes exuberant, form the surface of the sore, with a thin puriform discharge; the margin is thin, livid, and undermined, sometimes pre- tending to heal by incrustation of the discharge. The characters and tendency are those of an ordinary cedematous ulcer; but a scrofulous ulcer is even less disposed to heal soundly. A scrofulous cicatrix appears drawn, puckered, and incomplete. Small bridges form across the xdcer, underneath which a probe can be passed readily, in and out, here and there. Nature does but "skin and film the ulcerous spot." The co-existence of indolent glandular swellings and abscess, in other parts, will complete the diagnosis. Scrofulous ulcers are most frequent in the neck, groins, cheeks, scalp; and about the knee, ankle, wrist, and elbow. They are often numerous and clustered. The immediate cause in operation would appear to be a blood- disease, the nature of which however is unknown. But whatever impairs the nutritive qualities of the blood and its circulation, pre- disposes to scrofula. Hence deficient or defective food, insufficient ventilation, want of cleanliness and excretion, poor clothing, cold, damp, and even dark localities, with other hygienic conditions of similar import, are the nurseries and nurses of this blood-disease. Individual predisposition, as usual, plays its part; for among a family of children in precisely the same hygienic circumstances, one becomes scrofulous, while the rest remain free. Treatment.—In addition to the removal of any adverse hygienic condition, iron, bark, and cod-liver oil are calculated to strengthen the circulation and improve nutrition. The digestive organs will also require watchful attention. A stimulating plan of treatment with moderate pressure on the ulcer is appropriate, as for an cedematous ulcer. Thus, niti-ate of silver or sulphate of copper, and bandaging, are beneficial as topical appliances; but the more important part of the treatment is constitutional. The scar of a strumous ulcer is unsightly, and may occasion defor- mity, either by contraction, or, more commonly, by over-growth, and the formation of bars raised in radiating lines, or networks, or tongues of skin. In such cases, observes Sir James Paget, excision of the scar may be necessary; but in many instances a great portion of the excess of scar can be removed by repeated slight blistering, and with time nearly the whole will level down.