757 DISLOCATIONS OF THE CARPAL BONES. namely, backwards in tlie flexed position of backward dislocation, forwards in the more extended position of forward dislocation, and m either case aiding this leverage by pressing the carpus from behind, so as to bring it into place. Position should then be maintained by antero- posterior splints securing the hand, but allowing for the supervention of swelling. Injuries of tb Wrist allied to Dislocation.—(1.) Dislocation with fracture of the lower end of the radius, happens far more com- monly than dislocation alone. The diagnosis will turn on the presence of crepitus and mobility of the lower fragment, as determined by moving the hand, at the same time feeling whether the styloid pro- cesses of the radius and ulna move with it. Dislocation with fracture of the posterior margia of the articulating surface of the radius, is known as "Barton's fracture." Some diiEculty may be experienced in keeping the bones in place. (2.) Fracture of the lower end of the radius may be mistaken for dislocation of the wrist; but it can be distinguished in like manner. The comparative frequency of the Fig. 366.* former injury and rarity of the latter led Dupuytren to almost deny the possibility of radio-carpal dislocation; though the occurrence of this dislocation is now established beyond a doubt. (3.) Fracture with impaction of the fragments (Fig. 366) is unattended with the usual fracture signs, mobility and crepitus ; but it may be distinguished from dislocation, chiefly, by the resistance oliered to reduction. (4.) Sprain, also, simulates dislocation : here, how- ever, the swelling is single, and not well defined, Hke the bony projections of dislocation; it does not appear immediately, and gradually increases. Gompound Dislocation of the "Wrist.—This accident is of rare occur- rence. One case only has been seen by Hamilton, and one recorded by Sir. A. Cooper. As associated with fracture, the injury may happen more frequently. Always a serious injury, compound dislocation is even more so in consideration of the violence which causes it. Treatment.—The amount of damage done to the soft textures and to the bones will guide the Surgeon respecting the probability of preserving the hand, or the necessity for excision or amputation. Congenital dislocations of the wrist are described by Gruerin as possibly occurring in three forms : forwards, backwards and upwards, backwards and outwards. These dislocations are connected with, and dependent on, imperfect conditions of the radio-carpal articulation, or incomplete paralysis of the muscles of the forearm and hand. Dislocations of the Carpal Bones, among themselves.—Simple dislocations, or rather subluxations, of the carpal bones take place occasionally; but, perhaps, only in one direction—backwards. The bones thns liable to dislocation are the semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform bones of the first row, and the os magnum of the second row, which is most frequently displaced, while, according to South, the unciform bone is also liable to displacement. All the bones of one row may be dislocated, the second row overlapping the first row, * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 94.