426 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. are serious objections to any such application. Cotton wadding wrapped around the part forms a good protective covering, and aids in restoring the temperature of the part, a consideration of im- portance in proportion to the extent of surface involved; but this appliance alone is objectionable for the same reason as the flour- dressing. Carron-oil dressing, enclosed with cotton wool, will generally be found the best application. If the bum be extensive, one limb or part should be dressed at a time; while the remainder of the body is still covered up. The tdcer formed by the detachment of the eschar, must be treated agreeably to the general directions already given with regard to Ulcers. Water-dressing, or a weak solution of nitrate of silver, will then be appropriate, according to the state of the granulations. Pencilling the marginal granulations with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper, may be necessary, to repress their exuberant growth, and favour cica- trization. No dressing, in the whole course of treatment, should be reapplied unnecessarily; its removal being attended with great pain, and much increasing the constitutional disturbance. One of my earliest recollections as a student, was that of witnessing the shriek- ing of a patient during the di^essing of a large burn over the thorax and abdomen, the muscles quivering and bleating by exposure to the air. Contraction of the cicatrix is the grand difiiculty to be prevented or overcome. In anticipation of this event, Dupuytren recommended attention to position and the application of extension by counteracting mechanical contrivances, as soon as the eschar had become detached and during cicatrization. But any such adjustment of splints and bandages or other apparatus, will generally prove effectual only for a time; the cicatrix contracting when left free, and at length presenting its usual appearance and the accompanying deformities. Billroth recommends extension, with continued pressure, by means of a compress on the cicatrix; thus promoting the natural tendency of the contractile tissue to become atrophied, as in the treatment of strictured urethra by gradual dilatation. Operations are practised with the view of overcoming contraction. Division of the cicatrix has often been tried, but with little permanent success. Complete division is necessary, both as regards the extent and depth of the cicatrix ; any subjacent bridles must also be freely divided. All contraction having been thus overcome, extension should be main- tained mechanically during granulation and cicatrization in the lines of incision. With every precaution, hoAvever, the new intervening cicatrix-tissue is apt to acquire the same evil disposition. I have had recourse to this operation in many cases, and repeatedly in the same case; but with no more successful results than in the hands of other Surgeons. Bemoval of the cicatrix offers the advantage of getting into healthy or non-contractile tissue ; but the extent of surface, or the part affected, may render this kind of operation impracticable. Thus, the cicatrix can be excised, when of limited extent, as in the form of a contracted band. Or, destruction by sloughing may sometimes be resorted to; this mode of removal being effected by means of a clam-p-instrument, and which is especially eligible when the cicatrix presents in the form of a web, thin, and perhaps extensive. In the management