84 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKUY. recognized partly by considering the physical character of the pro- ducts; liquor sangtiiuis presenting a swelling, at first fluid, but as coagulation ensues, it soon assumes the character of a mixed product —solid and fluid, varying as either fibrin or serum prevails. Should the swelling be of doubtful character, the diagnosis can be com- pleted by puncturing its substance, and if necessary by further examination with the microscope of the matter efEused or the resulting products. Suppuration is announced by a throbbing or pulsating pain, in- creased heat, redness, and swelling. But proceeding as these signs do from increased determination of blood; a condition not essential to suppuration—they are not invariably present, or followed by sup- puration ; the inconstancy, in either respect, depending on the kind of texture in which inflammation takes place. In any unyielding texture, inflammation is accompanied with a throbbing pain, without suppuration necessarily ensuing; toothache being a familiar example. In a loose parenchymatous texture, which more freely admits the afflux of blood, extensive suppuration may have supervened, without any previous throbbing; as in the cellular texture of the ischio-rectal fossa. On the other hand, with regard to increased swelling; in loose cellular texture, considerable effusion and swelling may have taken place without suppuration ensuing; while, in an unyielding texture, an abscess forms, without any previous increase of swelling. The diagnostic value of these symptoms is perhaps fairly this: when suppuration does occur, in unyielding textures, it is invariably pre- ceded by throbbing, with increased heat and redness; and, in yielding textures, by increased swelling. Otherwise, these are not constant signs of approaching suppuration. Consequently, they. are not absolutely trustworthy as premonitory symptoms. But the physical properties of pus confer certain distinctive characters on any soft part in which it is formed. Just as the first effusion of lymph is recognized by a semi-solid swelling, arising from the products—fibrin and serum—into which that lymph has become resolved; so now another product—fluid, but of creamy consistence, and slightly viscid—imparts a more elastic feel to the swelling. It is the sign of diffused suppuration, and this condition may continue, or a further change takes place. Abscess.—Lymph may become deposited so abundantly around the focus of suppuration, as to effectually circumscribe and imprison the pus. The textures, thus encompassed, die, disintegrate, dissolve, and are removed by absorption, leaving tbe pus, more or less pure, in their place. An abscess is formed; which may be named acufe or subacute, with reference to its more or less speedy formation; some- times also termed a hot, or a piUegmonous abscess, as having regard to the sthenic character of the inflammation, or the firmly circumscribed boundary of solid lymph. A common boil is a good example of this form of abscess. It is the opposite condition of what has been termed diffuse abscess, which is nothing more than diffused suppuration. The circumferential lymph of this pus-containing cavity becomes highly organized, by the development of capillary blood-vessels, having a looped arrangement (Pig. 22); and it assumes somewhat the structure and characters of mucous membrane, and acquires a secretory power. It becomes pus-forming, as well as pus-containing; it is a pyogenic