SYNOVITIS. 793 frequently subject to synovitis; but here a general fulness and some bulging between the tendons—extensors and flexors—shows a con- formity to the rule of characteristic swelling. Heat and, possibly, redness of the skin around the joint, will also be more or less evident; but these signs are not diagnostic. The attitude of the limb is more or less peculiar, or becomes so. The joint is placed in the position most easy to the patient, and usually becomes semi-flexed. Constitutional febrile disturbance, in some degree, accompanies these local symptoms. Diagnosis.—Synovitis must be distinguished from hysterical affec- tion of the joint; and this diagnosis well illustrates the differential characters of all local hysterical affections, as compared with disease of any part. Arthritic hystena simulates synovitis; but the pain is most intense and disproportionate to any other symptom of disease; it is also superficial, or cutaneous, rather than affecting deeper textures, and diffused. Thus, the pain is elicited by touching, lightly handling, or bending the joint, but not provoked by pressing or concussing the heel upwards, so as to bring the articular ends s\iddenly into contact; and this surface-pain often extends upwards on the thigh, and down the leg to the foot. Spasmodic pains in the muscles are also ex- perienced, rather than concussive startings of the limb, as when nlcera- tion of the articular cartilages has taken place. All pain may cease at times, and recur; or it migrates suddenly, and settles in some other part; and then the simulated disease vanishes. The variations of colour and temperature are also significant; the limb being perhaps pale or of a purplish hue, and cold, in the morning, and becoming warm or hot to the touch, with a reddish, shining skin, in the evening. A slight puffy swelling may supervene on the intense pain, and as this puffiness corresponds to the margins of the articular cartilages, on either side of the patella, it looks as if the joint were affected. Generally, the limb is quite extended. While, therefore, the contour of the joint possibly resembles that of articular disease, the attitude of the limb usually differs from the semi-flexed position in that condition. The globular enlargement of the joint, with a half-bent relaxation of the limb, in carious disease of the articular ends of bone, would also suflBciently distinguish that condition. But the peculiarities of hysteric pain—in its severity, its superficial, diffused, and fitful character, with the changes of colour and temperature in the part—are altogether unlike the symptoms of any joint-disease, whether affecting the cartilages or the bones. Add to which, the constitutional health remains unimpaired, as by the symptomatic fever of inflammation, or the hectic of prolonged suppuration, in the early and advanced stages of joint-disease; and this difference of constitutional condition becomes more significant in its relation to the extent of the presumed disease and its duration. Chloroform lends invaluable aid in determining the diagnosis ; under its influence, pain and functional disturbance being subdued, the presence or absence of structural disease can be more conclusively ascertained. The knee and hip joints are most frequently visited by hysteria. Causes.—Exposure to cold, or some occasion of injury, as a blow or fall, sprain or wound, may give rise to acute synovitis. The disease thus occurs in joints which are most superficial and exposed, as the knee or elbow, sometimes the ankle or hip, occasionally the wrist or shoulder joint. But these causes are usually backed by some predis-