I MODEBN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 27 handed to him immediately by an instrument-assistant. The collection of instruments, however few, had better be covered with a towel, to conceal them from the eye of the patient when brought into the room. Sponges, of various sizes, clean and compressible, with lint and plaster, will always be provided by any well-trained nurse; but here again, the Surgeon had better see that these appliances are at hand. Any splint or other accessory requisite for application after operation, and previously prepared by the nurse or an assistant, should also be inspected. A tray containing sawdust or sand may be placed on the floor so as to catch the blood; but this has a repulsive appearance, and it is more agreeably substituted by a piece of maroon-coloured oil-cloth under the table. The operator may be conveniently dressed, in an easy-fitting, long-cut alpaca coat, or dressing-gown. The Assistants should be in number sufficient, but not superfluous, and each should have an allotted duty to perform, ordei'ly and silently. Thus, for a capital operation, as amputation, joint-excision, or lithotomy, four, or not less than three assistants, will be required; one, specially to administer chloroform; then, in the first-named operation, another to command the main artery; a third to hold the limb in position ; and a fourth to take charge of the flaps, and ligature the vessels as they are seized by the Surgeon. A fifth assistant might hand the instruments; but they are often taken up most readily by the Surgeon from the table near to him. Anesthetics.—The greatest gift of God to man, through Natural Science, is, perhaps, the discovery of means for the prevention or the abolition of bodily pain. This exemption approaches the realization of that blissful hereafter, one of the Divine promises of which is, that then "there shall be no more paia." Glimpses of the truth as now made known had appeared in various ages; but it was not until the year 1800 that Sir Humphry Davy, having himself experienced relief from pain while breathing nitrous oxide gas, suggested the possibility of employing the influence of this agent for the same purpose in surgical practice. After the lapse of nearly half a century, in 1844, the same idea occurred to Dr. Horace 'Wells, a dentist in Hartford, America, who underwent the extraction of a tooth without pain after inhaling the gas, and he administered it with the same effect to several of his patients; but, finding the practice uncertain, he soon abandoned it. About the game time, Dr. W. T. G. Morton of Boston, in America, who had previously been a partner with Wells, sought of his own accord, without it would appear receiv- ing any suggestion from him, to discover an efiicient anaesthetic; and having experimented upon himself and the lower animals, he extracted a tooth painlessly from a patient, under the influence of sulphuric ether by inhalation; this event taking place on the 30th of September, 1846. He then publicly exhibited the efficacy of this agent at the Massachusetts General Hospital; and thenceforward anaesthesia in surgery became an established blessing to mankind. It was not long ere this invaluable discovery was recognized, and followed up by farther investigation in this country ; which resulted in the introduction of chloroform, and its employment instead of sulphuric ether. The latter agent is still extensively used as an anaesthetic in America; but in Europe, chloroform is generally preferred to it, or was 30, at least, until quite recently. Disguised under the name