GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 72 the serous membranes; and suppressions of the excretions in general, have other inflammatory tendencies ; while the introduction of irritant poisons into the blood gives rise to inflammation in different organs,— arsenic gaining admission through an ulcer, leads to gastritis, and blis- tering by cantharides produces bloody urine. It would seem that at least some such inflammatory afi'ections are natural efforts to eliminate the poisonous matter from the system. Thence the predisposing influ- ence of constitutional conditions generally, most of which are blood diseases manifested by various local inflammations, and ever ready to recur; as secondary syphilitic diseases of the skin and other parts, scrofulous affections of the bones, skin and other textures. Other blood conditions predispose, as unquestionably, to local inflammations ; but they require for their development the co-operation of external exciting causes—contagious matters—in each case peculiar, relatively to the special condition of blood, which is thereby brought into action. All the infectious and eruptive fevers are of this kind. Predisposition through the influence of the nervous system is evoked by nerve injuries, the operation of which in producing peri- pheral inflammation is thus generalized by Simon :—A part deprived of sensibility becomes specially incapable of protecting itself against mechanical and chemical irritants, and accordingly inflames—e.g., the urinary bladder, subject to the action of retained urine, in paralysis. A part injured in respect of its innervation, is likely to suffer some circulatory disorder, with corresponding disturbance of natural temper- ature, and proneness to inflammation. The co-operation of all these elements will render the predisposition complete, and almost give rise to inflammation. Thus, the functional activity of any organ implying the concurrence of all the conditions essential to nutrition, in excess, such activity is accompanied with a proportionate proclivity to inflammation; as in the mammary glands, after parturition when lactation commences, and during its continuance; or the ovaries at the period of menstruation. The operation of inflammation itself is both local and constitutional. Locally, inflammation operates by extension, continuously, in the texture or organ affected; contiguously, to parts adjoining ; or, by transference (metastatis) to a part remote from that originally affected, the primary inflammation then subsiding. Continuous extension is witnessed in the progress of inflammation along the skin or mucous membrane, as in erysipelas, and the sore throat of scarlet fever. Contiguous extension is illustrated by ulceration of the articular cartilages of any joint, consequent on caries of the adjoining head of bone, or on synovitis. Thus also ostitis supervenes on periostitis; cellulitis on inflammation of the skin, and conversely. Taking inter- nal organs, from the head downwards : meningitis is succeeded by cerebritis ; scrofulous and purulent ophthalmia, by inflammation of the cornea and deeper textures of the eye ; laryngitis, by inflammation of the subcellular texture and oedema glottidis; gastritis, enteritis, cystitis, and metritis, respectively, may extend to the peritoneum, giving rise to peritonitis. The transference of inflammation is exemplified by orchitis super- vening on the sudden suppression of gonorrhoea. Such then is the general operation of Inflammation locally; con-