142 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 40.* t Net-celled Myxo-sarcoma. (Virchow.) the same treatment as that growth. But excision is resorted to, and with the ready concurrence of the patient, to exterminate, so to speak, the otherwise excruciating paroxysmal pain in the tumour, rather than in consequence of any mechanical inconvenience by its size, which is always inconsiderable. The pain may perhaps be relieved, for a time, by firm pressure with a metallic ring placed on the circumferential j)or- tion of skin; but the tumour will ultimately have to be excised to obtain permanent relief from suffering. I am not aware that pain ever recurs in the cicatrix, although free excision may be advisable, as a precaution ; assuredly the tumour itself never returns, when completely extirpated. Neuroma is also amenable only to excision. The nerve-filaments, enclosed in, or expanded over, this little tumour, must generally be divided. Occasionally, the tumour can be dissected out of the nerve, leaving it intact. This more conservative mode of excision is especially important in the case of a large nerve, as the sciatic. But the presence of more than one, sometimes very many, neuromata in various parts of the body, may render any operation useless. As a palliative, in both these forms of painful tumonr, the topical application of the most benumbing anodynes, e.g., the tincture of aconite, is worthy of trial. I have met with instances of fixed pain limited to a spot, at the junction of the ball of the thumb and wrist, and in other situations, where great relief has been obtained by the occasional application of aconitine ointment,—one grain to a drachm of lard. The best aconitine must be used ; it was prepared by Messrs. Morson, of Southampton-row, who are justly celebrated for the prepar- ation of this and other vegetable alkaloids. Glioma.—A variety of fibro-cellular tumour is thus named by Virchow, from its originating in the neuroglia or connective tissue of nerves ; bnt it contains no nervous element, only round cells of variable size—as in granulations (Fig. 40), or with offshoots, and an inter-cellular substance. Parts of the tumour may have under- gone fatty or calcareous degeneration. Glioma may be soft, resembling myxoma or medullary cancer, or of hard consistence, like fibrous tumour. Section presents a vascular surface, translucent, and blnish-white or pinkish-grey. This tumour occurs at an early period of life, and more often forms in the eye than in other parts. Treatment.—Excision is the only cure; and recurrence is improbable, unless the cells are of large size. Myxoma—so named by Virchow —or mucous tumour, originates in moist and soft connective tissue, and consists of a modification of that texture. (Fig. 41.) The sub- stance of this growth is remark- ably gelatinous, loose and juicy, like that of the umbilical cord, and on section it trickles away in thick gelatinous strings. Such tumours * Round cells of Glio-sarcoma. 350 diam. (Virchow.)