UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. 603 refractured tlic leg of a boy, cetat. fifteen, 13 months after tlie original fracture. (&.) Gomjylete osseous-union can only be overcome by a cutting ope- ration. The caUus having been laid bare, it may be divided—the operation of section—by a small saw or bone-forceps ; or excision of the callus may be necessary, particularly if it be exuberant. The ends of bone are then to be readjusted aright, and the case treated as comjjound fracture. But the very fact of this condition resulting from the operation, coupled with the inherent peril of the operation itself, renders it one not lightly to be entertained. To say that by an incision the callus is reached, does not convey a true idea of the operative difficulties then experienced, owing to various pathological conditions of the callus, and of the parts around. For the inter-union of two contiguous bones, accompanied with serious loss of functional utility, as pronation and supination in the forearm, division of the callus is more imperatively necessary, if refracture cannot be accomplished. But with union of the tibia and fibula, either, and indeed any, operative proceeding is generally un- important ; and, as regards the junction of two ribs, is obviously impracticable. Ununited Fracture, and False-joint.—Disunited Fracture.— Structural Conditions.—Four varieties of Ununited Fracture are recognized; two of which may be regarded as stages of non-union, and two of false-joint; in either case, proceeding from incomplete to complete. They thus form a contimied series of structural conditions, from imperfect union to perfect articulation, (a.) Tlie fractured ends Fig. 201.' of a bone may be united by an ensheathing cartilaginous callus; which, however, fails to undergo ossification. This condition is known by partial mobility of the part when handled, and the limb is proportionately useless. (&.) Total non-union may occur, there being no kind of connecting medium between the fractured ends, which are also apparently diminished in size. They are freely movable, and the limb is altogether useless and wasted, (c.) Most commonly, in both fragments, the medullary canal is obliterated, the ends are rounded and pointed Iby absorption, and covered in by the for- mation of a tissue resembling periosteum ; they are connected together by a strong ligamentous hand, or by several nari'ow bands, fii-mly attached to^ the bones. This new material is very pliable, and the incomplete joint thus constructed is movable according to the length and laxity of such ligamentous connection. (Pig. 201.) (d.) Lastly, * Ligamentous union of both bones in forearm, after fracture; seven years date- the patient a man aged SO. lloyal Free Hos pital.