SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 420 CHAPTER XX. BURNS AND SCALDS. LIGHTNING. FEOST-BITES, Burns and Scalds.—Structural Conditions, cmd Diagnostic Characters.— Formerly, burns were classified according to tbeir different degrees of structural disorganization, as represented by inflammation, suppuration, slougliing, and ulceration. Fabricius Hildanus, Boyer, and Dr. J. Thomson observed only three degrees of disorganization; Heister and Callisen recognized a fourtb; but Dupuytren was dissatisfied with this ground of classification, which regarded only the intensity of the bums, while the nature of the parts affected, the textures injured or destroyed, were altogether disregarded. He therefore superadded this kind of classification, by distinguishing bams according to their various degrees of depth, from the surface inwards to deeper parts. Firstly,—Erythema, or simple reddening of the skin. Secondly.— Vesication, the cuticle being raised in blebs, filled with serum. Thirdly. —Incomplete destruction of the skin. Fourthly.—Complete destruc-' tion of the skin, extending down to and involving the subcutaneous cellular texture. Fifthly.—Conversion into eschars of muscles, nerves, vessels, and other soft tissues to within a variable distance from the bone. Sixthly.—Charring and complete disorganization of the whole substance of the burnt part. Obviously, this classification recognizes not only the various degrees of disorganization, beginning with ery- thema and ending with charring; but the various kinds of tissue, or anatomical differences, are also recognized as grounds of distinction. Thus may be enumerated burns of the skin, and those involving the cellular texture, the muscles, nerves, vessels, and so forth. The distinctions laid down by Dupuytren, although stiU generally accepted, are, I conceive, practically useless. Beep burns, to the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees, extending successively through tissues having very different anatomical characters, are not attended with correspondingly different degrees of shock; they undergo the same process of reparation by sloughing and suppurative granulation, and with equal probability of recovery. It should also be observed that, as the textures successively destroyed by deep bums serve very different functions in the animal economy, the relative importance of such burns is not proportionate to the physiological character and importance of the parts destroyed. Nor, again, is the Surgeon concerned with the pathologico-anatomical differences of bums. He estimates not the effects of heat on the body by observing the different degrees of dis- organization produced in the various textures—that this eschar is yellow and hard, and that is black and brittle—as the geologist or mineralogist would examine specimens of igneous rocks. Superficial burns are most important, and in proportion to the extent of surface affected, but not necessarily destroyed structurally. The more superficial the burn, the more the skin alone is affected, if only extensively, the more urgent will be the constitutional disturb- ance, and the more dangerous is the burn. A negro employed at the Bains Vigicr, in Paris, wishing on one occasion to warm his limbs,