79 INFLAMMATION. of a line across, and consists of two, three, or four granules aggregated together. These secondary nuclei are rotmd, oval, sometimes elliptical. The whole cell,—its membrane, and contained molecular matter and compound nucleus, are albuminous. Water distends these corpuscles, and acetic acid dissolves the molecular matter, perhaps also the cell- membrane, and by loosening or breaking up the nucleus, displays its compound structure. (See Fig. 21, the five ti-ansparent cells.) Pus-serum is a clear, colourless, or very faintly yellow fluid, having a weak alkaline reaction, and coagulating by heat into a dense white mass. Albumen is its chief constituent, in proportion from 1"2 to 3"7§. Fatty matter is extracted by ether, and it consists of olein, margarin, oleic and margarie acids, and cholesterin. These fatty matters vary from 2 to 6§ of the wbole fluid, of which proportion, cholesterin alone often reaches to l^. Mucin, pyin, casein, chondrin, glutin, and leucine, are occasional constituents. The solid constituents of this serum range from 14 to 16§, of whicb from 5 to 6g are mineral, and the soluble salts are to the insoluble as 8 to 1. Of the former, chloride of sodium is most abundant, being three times more so than in tbe serum of blood. The soluble phosphates range from 3 to 10§. The insoluble salts are phosphates of lime and magnesia, with a little sulphate of lime and peroxide of iron. Certain incidental matters may be present in pus, as in any other exudation; namely, bile-pigment, the resinous acids of the bile, urea and sugar. (Day's " Chemistry.") Pus is seldom found pure, but associated with various ingredients, the debris of surrounding textures, and mixed with secretions. Healthy or laudable pus may thus become serous, mucous, sanguineous, stru- mous, cancerous, etc. Or pus may be specific; as the syphilitic pus, vaccine matter, pus of porrigo, of glanders, etc. The products of Inflammation are usually found associated ; but one or other so far predominates, in different textures or organs, as to give its own structural character to the deposit; in cellular texture and parenchymatous organs, as the lungs, the product is chiefly granular matter and exudation corpuscles; in or on mucous mem- branes, chiefly pus; on serous membranes, chiefly coagulable lymph. Pathology of Effusion and of SujJj^uration.—Analogy would lead us to expect a general resemblance between the processes of healthy nutrition and inflammatory effusion;—that the composition and vital condition of the blood will predispose to the formation of certain products; and that this process is affected by the degree of inflam- matory hyperfemia, and by the force of the general circulation; that it is regulated by the nervous system; and is completed by the secretory or the formative power of the inflamed structure. How far does all this anticipation accord with known facts ? (a.) As to the condition of the blood, in its relation to inflammatory effusion. Serum exudes from the engorged vessels, and fibrin, there- fore, may also escape in a fluid state. But inflammatory blood supei'- abounds with fibrin, and this condition will tend to deposit it more freely. The liquor sanguinis effused will be, for the most part, fluid fibrin; and such is the typical character of coagulable lymph, which represents the first product of inflammation, before the formation of filaments, or of exudation, or pus-corpuscles. It is that which appears m the first instance on blistered surfaces, as demonstrated by Paget's observations.