289 ERYSIPELAS. fading in that portion of the skin where it first ajipeared, it travels to the neighbouring skin. The various stages of this inflammation, therefore, usually co-exist in dilferent parts of the skin; the portion last affected being red and swollen, another part vesicated, while others are undergoing desquamation. So marked sometimes is the spreading or progressive character of the inflammation, as to have received the name of JE. ambulans. Or, if not spreading continuously, but sub- siding and migrating from part to part, this variety has been named JE7. erraticiimi, or metastatic, when migrating possibly to some internal mucous membrane, or serous cavity. Thence, complications are oc- casionally met with, as in other eruptive fevers. For example, meningitis may occur in connection with erysipelas of the face; pleurisy, when the trunk or other parts are affected. Fever.—Erysipelas is preceded by, and attended vsrith, a fever of the typhoid type; but which is generally characterized by a marked de- rangement of the digestive system, especially of the liver, so that the patient may become more or less jaundiced. Commencing, usually, with smart rigors, and a hot, dry skin, followed by perspiration, per- haps profuse; then the erysipelatous inflammation makes its appearance. Sometimes, however, the premonitory symptoms are simply a sense of weariness with a chilly feeling, ere the cutaneous or cellulo-cutane- ous inflammation is declared. But in either case, the gastric and hepatic derangements are denoted by a yellow, flabby, steaming tongue, which soon assumes a dry, brown, and corrugated aspect, with bitter, hickuppy eructations, nausea, and epigastric oppression; the bowels' are constipated, or pass only lumpy, dark-coloured, and offensive motions, issuing in diari^hoea; while a yellow tinge overspreads the skin and conjunctivae. This retention of bile in the blood is shown also by the state of the urine, which has an orange-red colour; the secretion is scanty, turbid with lithates, and loaded with urea; some- times a varying proportion of albumen is found on examining the urine with the usual tests of heat and nitric acid. The circulation labours under the influence of the blood-poison. On the accession of the fever, the pulse increases in frequency, and the temperature rises from 98° to 100° or 102°, during the apparent coldness of the rigor- stage ; but soon the supervention of exhaustion is manifested by the feeble, irregular, and liquid or thready character of the pulse, which often, however, retains its rapidity. The temperatui'e gradually de- clines as the inflammation subsides; or rises daily, morning and evening, especially as the inflammation continues to spread, or returns in an erratic form. In unison with the circulation, symptoms of nei'- vous depression are evinced by the clasping headache and drowsy sleeplessness, which may be noticed in erysipelas of the head and face, more especially; and sometimes, maniacal excitement having prevailed for a time, the low muttering and wandering delirium of typhoidal fever overwhelms the patient, as he sinks into the arms of death. On the other hand, there can be no more favourable omens than a subsidence of the pulse and temperature; both gradually re- turning to the normal standard, as the blood-poison seems to have spent itself in the inflammation, and the red or purple hue of the skin fades away, not prematurely, but in the natural termination of the attack. In the course of erysipelatous fever, the premonitory symptoms ■of rigor or chilliness may not be followed by the outbreak of cutaneous u