Fig. 184.* 577 LYMPHOMA. mass weighed 4| lbs. On section, it was cystic, but bad the cbaracters of a fibrous tumour. Under tbe microscope, it sbowed tbe structure represented in Fig. 184; a fine alveolar fibroid stroma, containing lymph-corpuscles, like white blood-corpuscles, in abundance; curdy and fatty matter from degeneration was found in parts. Large cells, and of diverse form, here and there, like large granulation-cells, in other parts of the tumour seemed to indicate a transition to a sarcomatous growth. On removing a lymphomatous mass, the constituent tumours are kidney-shaped or ovoid ; and on section exhibit a greyish yellow colour, which by exposure assumes a reddish hue. The minute structure of these glandular tumours consists of an accumulation of lymph-cells, which have undergone proliferating de- velopment ; with atrophy and rare- faction of the enclosing capsule and trabecular structure, which, in the form of a fine open fibrous network, contains the lymph-cells. (Fig. 184.) The blood-vessels remain, but their walls are much thickened. Thus the proper structure of the gland is destroyed. The cellular infiltration may be so considerable, as to resemble a gliomatous tumour. The origin of lymphoma is hardly ever congenital; but the tumour may occur from the first to the sixtieth year; usually, however, between eight and twenty years of age, and rarely after thirty. Some connection may be traced between lymphoma and leucocythemia, or an excessive development of white-corpuscles in the blood,—white- celled blood. Virchow refers leucocythemia, in such cases, to the excess of white-cells supplied by the hyper-plastic lymphatic glands. Billroth differs from this explanation; for with extensive tumours of the lymphatic glands, leucocythemia rarely occurs; and the glands being more or less completely destroyed, it is improbable that their functional activity should thus be increased. Another form of lymphoma is also recognized by some pathologists, in which, with the same essential structure, the growth proliferates rapidly, and infiltrates the surrounding textures ; the tumour appearing as a fungoid mass, and having a malignant character. These medullary lymphomatous tumours always recur after removal, and are almost always fatal. The treatment of lymphoma in its ordinary benign form is much the same as for scrofulous enlargement of the lymphatic glands. Constitutional measures are more efficacious than topical applications. The patient's general health must be brought under the influence of iron and quinine, cod-liver oil, and a nutritious diet; reinforced by the hygienic regime of good air, such exercise as the strength can bear, and other invigorating resources. Iodine, of more remedial value when used externally, may be applied, as iodine paint or oint- ment, with some hope of thus reducing the size of a lymphomatous tumour. Its removal by operation will scarcely ever be advisable, ♦ Lymphoma, or Lymphadenoma—Mr. Do Morgan's case, examined by Mr. Henry Arnott. (Trans. Path. Soc., vol. xxii.)