GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 184 again, the lymphatic glands are early liable, although not prone, to become affected by the continued epithelial infiltration of the primary growth; but secondary formations thence arising are almost exclusively limited to_ glands in connection with the immediate vicinity of the primary disease. A similar epithelial form of growth, or more com- monly encephaloid cancer, may however ensue, and indiscriminately in parts distant from the original disease ; and there is also the less sig- nificant fact of recurrence, sooner or later, after removal by operation. Lastly, in point of hereditary influence, members of the same family, in whom either scirrhous or encephaloid cancer occurs, are peculiarly liable to the epithelial form of growth. Duly weighing all these affinities, singly and collectively, this epithelial growth is rightly de- nominated epithelial cancer. In this conclusion the most able patholo- gists concur ; Kokitansky, Virchow, Paget, and others. Epithelial cancer must not be confounded with the " Epithelioma " of Hannover and Bennett, who include under that title many other growths besides this variety of cancer; and it differs also from the "cancroid" of Lebert. Treatment.—The guiding indications of treatment in respect to epithelial cancer are two; one or other of which is always practicable. (1.) To superinduce inflammation and sloughing, thus destroying the cancer. This may be accomplished by caustics, such as those already mentioned for the destruction of cancer generally; the strong mineral acids, caustic alkalies, and chloride of zinc. But it must be confessed that this method of treatment is not more successful in the one case than the other. In one instance, of an epithelial cancer of the entire circumference and nearly the whole length of the vagina, I repeatedly applied the strong fuming nitric acid by means of a glass brush; but without apparently any effect, for better or worse. (2.) Removal of the cancer is the most effectual treatment. This may be accomplished by excision, ligature, or amputation. The former method is, generally, most eligible; care being taken to cut sufficiently wide for the entire extirpation of the growth. It will be necessary to include any neighbouring lymphatic glands which have decidedly become secondarily affected by the cancerous infiltration. But the strong infiltrating tendency of epithelial cancer renders its effectual removal by excision doubtful. Removal by ligature, or the ecraseur, is the alternative method; wherever excision is impracticable, or would be imprudent, or inefficient. Amputation is necessary, primarily or secondarily, in certain cases. It may be so, in the first instance, owing to the extent of the disease, or its locality, as when situated on the leg, or the arm, near the trunk. Of the latter urgency for amputation I had an instance in the case of an epithelial cancer just below the shoulder-joint. The patient died, after the operation, of Hospital gangrene. Secondary amputation is un- avoidable in any case of recurrent cancer; caustics, excision, ligature, or even primary amputation, as the case may be, having failed, perhaps successively, to extirpate the primary disease. Eecxorrence of the disease after apparently complete removal by operation is, I believe, the rule, without exception. And the epithelial growth returns sometimes in the cicatrix, sometimes in the lymphatic glands, when previously healthy. The period of recurrence varies considerably; being very early, or much longer after operation,—a