SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 624 case, I have removed all apparatus, and with marked benefit. Recum- bency and rest have proved sufficient for the adjustment and union of the fractures; while attention should be directed solely to the treat- ment of any complication. This method of treatment—by the re- cumbent position, without apparatus—is applicable also to simple fracture of the clavicle ; but it is unnecessary to impose the restraint of such absolute immobility, and it would bo prejudicial to the general health to confine the patient to bed. The posture-method is, however, as old as the time of Hippocrates, and it has since been recommended by Dnpuytren, Pelletan, Lizars, Lento, of New York, and other expe- rienced Surgeons. Fracture of the Scapula.—Structural Conditions.—Fracture of the Scapula is liable to occur in any part of the bone ; but in some parts commonly, in others rarely. This distinction has reference, apparently, to the more or less exposed situation of the bone, in its different parts. Thus, the inferior angle is more commonly fractured than the body ; the acromion commonly ; the coracoid jvocess, and the nech, both rarely. The glenoid cavity may be starred, but very rarely. (1.) The Inferior Angle is simply broken oii", and displaced forward, being drawn in that direction by the attached portion of the serratus magnns, and by the teres major and latissimus muscles. The Signs, therefore, are this displacement, and the mobility of the fragment apart from the body of the bone, or the stationary position of the angle when the scapula is moved. (2.) The Body may be fractured trans- FiG. 215. versely or longitudinally; in the former direction usually, and close below the spine of the scapula. (Fig. 215.) Little dis- placement can take place, the fragments being embraced by muscles; but with completely transverse fracture, the lower portion is drawn forward. The Signs are some displacement, in transverse fracture discovered more readily, as an irregularity of the posterior border of the scapula; with perhaps crepitus and mobility of the fragments, on using some degree of pressure to and fro in the direc- tion of fracture. (3.) The Acromion may be knocked off at its tip, or nearer its root (Fig. 215) ; it is drawn downwards and slightly forwards by the deltoid muscle, and the weight of the arm. The Signs are very conspicuous. Downward displacement of the fragment, "and dropping of the arm, give a marked flattening to the shoulder ; and the inequality of the spine of the scapula can be felt on passing the finger upwards in its course to the depressed fractured portion near the clavicular articulation. Crepitus and mobility of this portion of the bone are also felt on pressing upwards and rotatmg the arm, the other hand being placed over the shoulder ; and the deformity of the shoulder then disappears, but it returns when the arm is again allowed to drop. The patient feels as if the shoulder were dropping off, and experiences a great sense of weight and powerlessness m