INFLAMMATION. 41 textural elements, by various degrees of arrest of their development; such as exudation and pus-corpuscles, coagulated fibrin with plastic corpuscles, granular matter, and serum; while the debris or waste matter of the texture is apt to accumulate. In virtue of its increased productiveness, inflammation differs from nutritive maintenance, and is allied to growth; but in virtue of its rapidity, the process is so hurried on, that more is accomplished in a given time, and consequently the products are imperfectly developed. Accelerated Nutrition would therefore, I think, be an appropriate name for Inflammation, as at once expressing its nature and distinctive character. Experimental investigations have been instituted, chiefly by Pro- fessors Cohnheim and Strieker, with regard to the changes which the textural elements undergo in inflammation. Non-vascular tissues are best adapted for the observation of such changes,—apart from the blood-vessels and circulation ; as the cornea of the frog, cartilage, and tendon, under the influence of irritation by caustic or a seton-thread. But vascular tissues, as connective tissue in the frog's tongue, muscle, mucous membrane, and gland tissues, especially that of the liver, have also been submitted to similar examination. The general results have been—that the textural changes represent increased activity of cell- life, in the proliferation or germination of protoplasm or of cells, which multiply either by cleavage or by endogenous germination. Whether this increased textural productiveness be due to the direct stimulant action of the material effused from the capillary blood- vessels, or be referable to nerve-influence, may be regarded as an open question. (2.) State of the circulation of blood, and of the blood-vessels, in rela- tion to, and in, the part inflamed.—This element of inflammation necessarily pertains to vascular textures; nevertheless, comparatively avascular textures, such as cartilage, which are nourished by imbibition, are affected by the circulation of blood in the adjoining textui-e, whence they derive their nutritive material as the source of supply. The blood current to, and from, an inflamed part, through the arteries and veins respectively, is increased in quantity, force, and rapidity; so also it would appear to be primarily increased in the capillaries of the part, but secondarily it becomes stagnant, a condition known as the stasis of the circulation in those vessels. The arteries, veins, and capillaries all apparently become enlarged. Enlargement of the arteries, with increased flow of arterial blood through them, constitutes determination of blood; enlargement of the capillaries," with stagnation or accumulation of blood in them, consti- tutes congestion of blood; the enlarged veins transmitting the increased current of blood, through collateral capillaries. In inflammation, the presence of determination of blood, subse- quently of congestion, and the co-existence of both these vascular con- ditions, are facts which have been more or less established by the following experimental observations :— (a.) Arterial and Venous Circulation.—The arteries towards an in- flamed part throb with increased pulsation, while the veins therefrom are turgid. It might appear that the former are beating with blood apparently rebounding from some obstruction in advance, and that the latter become turgid with stagnant blood. But experimental observa-