323 DISSECTION-WOUND. cold, or slightly stimulant lotions; as lead lotion, or a spirit-wash, or by a solution of acetate of ammonia—spirit of mindererus—which acts apparently by neutralizing the formic acid of the virus. Protec- tion of the surface, by means of flour, chalk, or olive oil, will also allay the irritation. Usually, however, any inconvenience soon passes off. But a sting in the pharynx, attended with diffuse swelling, may im- pede respiration, or extending to the glottis, canse suffocation ; hence, the necessity for prompt interference, by means of astringent gargles, ice-cold water, scarification, or the application of leeches to the throat. Dissection-Wound.—Inoculation with decomjposing animal matter— septic matter—is a kind of poisoned wonnd, the type of which is repre- sented by a dissection-wound. The cuts and pricks received in dissecting are more or less familiar to the personal experience of every student of anatomy. Symptoms.—The effects, local and constitutional, are always the same; differing only in degree, according to the virulence of the poison introdnced, and the previous state of health; thus giving rise to the mild and the acute forms of the infection. In both, there is some local irritation or inflammation, advancing perhaps to pustular suppui'ation, with inflammation of the lymphatics; and attended with febrile disturbance, of typhoid character, resembling pytemic infection. But, in the onild form of the disease, the puncture becomes sur- rounded with a red areola, a pustule arises, and bursting, discharges an unhealthy pus, while tender rose-coloured lines—the inflamed lymphatics—spread branching up the limb, and the axillary glands become enlarged and perhaps suppurate. Low febrile disturbance, with loss of appetite, and diarrhoea, accompany these local symptoms, reducing the patient to a cachectic condition, but which .pass off in a slow recovery. All the symptoms of the attack are, however, of short duration—the local inflammation arising one or two days after the puncture, and the blood-poison running off, apparently, from the system in the course of a week or two. In the acute form of the disease, the constitutional symptoms seem almost to precede, and they certainly exceed, the local at the seat of puncture. In twelve or twenty-four hours after inoculation, by a slight prick, or scratch with the hooks, in dissecting, a severe rigor— the pysemic shudder—occurs, with great nervous depression, a rapid pulse, and marked anxiety of countenance. This seizure is accom- panied with the formation of a small, perhaps insignificant, vesicle or pustule, containing a thin, milky or puriform matter, having an in- flamed areola; a sharp, stabbing pain, fixed in the shoulder, and shooting down the chest, announces the commencement of suppuration m the axillary glands, and some red lines connect this purulent depot with the puncture-pustules. In a few days, diffuse inflammation of the arm and forearm presents a considerable, sloughy oedema of the limb; and diffuse suppuration may extend rapidly from the armpit into^ the sub-scapular and sub-pectoral regions, or down the side, involving the subcutaneous cellular texture in a sloughy mass, without much discolouration of the skin. The constitutional disorder becomes more typhoid, and low delirium or coma supervening, death ensues m two or three Aveeks. Or, abscesses continuing to form, the patient, in a hectic state, at length sinks from exhaustion. Eecovery may, mdeed, occur, leaving him the Avrcck of his former self.