SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 406 between an artery and vein in contact, as tte femoral vessels, -mtliOut opening either vessel, their elasticity apparently preserving them intact. The pain of a gunshot wound is worthy of notice as a symptom. In the first instance, it is either like the sharp stroke of a cane, or a dull heavy blow ; differences due, perhaps, to the degree of contusion. The pain may be referred to a part remote, more or less, from the seat of injury. This want of localization, coupled with the inconstant and in- definite character of the pain itself, evinces its inferior diagnostic value as a symptom, compared with the signs already described. For a short time after the injury, the sensibility of the part is numbed; pain succeeding, and with increasing intensity as inflammation and tension supervene. The symptoms connected with the penetration of particular parts— perchance the viscera—are specially significant, in virtue of the function of the part, which is thus injured ; but as not pertaining to the general pathology of gunshot wounds, they are here omitted. Causes; or Kinds of Projectiles in Ghmshot Wounds, and the Effects of these Injuries.—The shape of projectiles used in warfare presents several varieties, the chief of which are spherical, as cannon-balls, grape, musket-shot, and shell; cylindro-conoidal, as balls belonging to rifled cannon and rifled muskets ; irregular, but generally bounded by linear and jagged edges, as fragments of shells and splinters, chain and bar shot. In point of size, projectiles vary from a rifle bullet to the largest sized cannon-ball or shell. The shot used in civil life are usually of smaller size ; as the bullet of a fowling-piece, or of a revolver or pistol; and game-shot of various sizes. The material and density of projectiles are less various; being either lead, as the common bullet, glass, as some hand-grenades, or cast iron, as cannon-ball or shell and all other missiles. The momentum of a projectile is represented by its weight and velocity. The velocity of different kinds of projectiles varies consider- ably. According to a table published in 1851, the common musket bullet moves at the rate of 850 miles per hour, the rifle-ball of that date at 1000, and the 24 lb. cannon-ball at 1600 miles per hour. But the musket-ball then could not be depended on to hit an object beyond 80 yards, and the rifle not further than 200 to 250 yards; while, at a later period, the Enfield rifle was sighted to 900 yards, and the short Enfield to 1100 yards; and now, the Snider and Martini-Henry breech-loaders are true at certainly 1000 yards. The Jcind of motion imparted to different projectiles, and thence their course through the air, is a difficult question, which can only be analyzed and determined mathematically, and is, in fact, a very im- portant branch of dynamics. Different kinds of motion have to be considered in combination, and as resulting from the propulsive force, subject also to the law of gravity. A ball discharged from the old smooth-bore musket has a double motion; it revolves on its axis at a right-angle to the line of flght. A ball discharged from a rifle-bored musket or rifle has also a double motion, but of a different kind; it revolves on its axis in the line of flight. The angle at which a pro- jectile strikes may be said to be accidental in many or most cases, and unconnected with the missile itself or its motion. Striking frequently at or nearly a right-angle, one kind of missile—the shell—exploding