GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 330 then drop dead on tlie pillow. The hearl's action is paralyzed through the impression on the nervous system. After death, in the one condition, the heart is empty, or nearly so ; in the other, the heart is found engorged with blood, all its cavities being distended, especially the right auricle and ventricle. The venous system, generally, is similarly distended. Coagulation has taken place to some extent, but imperfectly; a considerable portion of the blood remaining fluid, while the clots are loose and dark. Sometimes the blood is altogether fluid. Eigor mortis commonly sets in, and some- times very strongly. A significant fact is the accumulation in the stomach of any food which may have been taken, and that it has undergone little or no change; thus indicating the suspension of digestion, in common with other functions which can be observed during life. I have also frequently found the intestines comparatively empty, and singularly enlarged, owing apparently to atony of their muscular coats. Beyond these ajDpearances, there is a remarkable absence of any discovei'able lesion apart from the injury itself which has occasioned the shock. Death by asthenia, from chronic shock, is an occasional result. Necrcemia, or perhaps thrombosis and embolism, in consequence of shock, as affecting the blood, are also possible modes of death. (2.) Reaction.—A natural restorative effort commonly ensues, in a period varying from a few minutes to thirty-six or forty-eight hours, or more. This reaction, as it is termed, of course implies the revival of those functions which have been temporarily suspended. The balance of the circulation is regained, the pulse acquiring force and fulness, and losing its frequency and irregularity. "With it warmth returns, the actual temperature rising two degrees, or more—from 98 to 100 or 103 degrees ; and the colour of the living body reappears. Respiration becomes more perceptible, prostration is less marked, the individual evincing some inclination to turn from the supine posture, and the cerebral obscurity clears off. Ordinarily, I think, reaction is not a continuous restorative effort; but slight retrogressions towards collapse occur, followed by reactions progressively more and more complete; and it is by these series of ebbings and flowings, that the balance of the circulation and other functions is at length regained. If revival be incomplete, a mixed state of exhaustion, vnth reaction, prevails. Traumatic Delirium—as this compound state is termed—may have either an inflammatory or a nervous character. Ivflammaiory Traumatic Delirium.—Prostration with excitement—as this state was first named by Mr. Travers—is denoted by a rapid bounding pulse, but weak and liquid. The skin is hot and the face flushed, but there is still a haggard expression. The breathing is hurried and irregular, there is much restless tossing about, and perhaps spasmodic action of the muscles, with great debility, and the mind becomes excited and bewildered. The patient now doses off, then flickers up, as it were, suddenly, with an agitated and tremulous manner, only again to wander, and again arouse. At length frenzy, possibly, subsiding in coma and re-exliaustion, with a cold clammy sweat, ends in death; or ultimately, reaction prevailing, the pulse re- gains its force, loses its frequency, and the healthy status is slowly re-established.