GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 164 there occur " cancerous growths of embryonic composition, and in all likelihood of fibro-cancerous (scirrhous) nature." To this list may be added cancer-growths secondary to scirrhus, and which, in proportion as they are consecutive, incline more and more to the condition of encephaloid ; for example, of the lymphatic glands, the bones, muscles, skin. Schirrous cancer is not unusually solitary. (3.) Colloid cancer selects the stomach and large intestine, the serous membranes, and particularly the peritoneum. In other textures and organs this species is mostly secondary; as in the lymphatic glands, the lungs, the ovaries, the bones, the breasts; "and in rare cases, the kidney, uterus, and liver " (Rokitansky) : to which I may add, the pancreas, spleen, and urinary bladder. Colloid cancer is usually solitary. Vital History of Cancer.—Causes.—Age has no definite influence on the production of Cancer; the three species having been known to originate at every period of life. Even during intra-uterine life, scirrhus in the heart was found in one case. At birth, meningeal cancer, and instances of cancer affecting other organs, have been found. In infancy, childhood, maturity, middle age, the decline of life, and extreme old age—even at ninety-three—cancer is liable to occur. But certain periods of life are prone to cancer-growth, as indicated by its mortality ; the tenth to the fifteenth year is least liable, the thirty-fifth to the eightieth year, and perhaps to a later period, is most liable, the tendency increasing with each succeeding decennial period. There seems to be a more rapidly increasing tendency after thirty and on- wards for some years, as compared with the same number of years before that period; the proportion of deaths, in both sexes, from the age of thirty to forty increasing to six times more than between twenty and thirty. Sex much affects the liability to cancer. Thus, from forty to fifty years, in females, the mortality increases sixfold; whereas, in males, the number of deaths increases only two and a half times. Sex in relation to Species.—Scirrhus is more common in the female, as affecting the breast; encephaloid occurs more commonly in the female, as affecting the uterus; but exclusive of this organ, men are more liable than women ; colloid is of about equally fi'equent occurrence in both sexes (Lebert) ; but epithelial cancer is most frequently met with in the male. Age in relation to Species.—Encephaloid occurs more often iu infancy and youth ; scirrhus in adults, it being uncommon before puberty or even the thirtieth year; colloid in adults only, or excessively rarely, if ever, before the thirtieth year. Hereditary tendency.—Evidence in this direction may be resolved into two general facts. In some families cancer is known to have occurred in more than one individual. Mr. Sibley traced it among cancer patients at the Middlesex Hospital, in one case of every nine; Sir James Paget, in one of every six cases. Mr. Arnott and Mr. De Morgan each had charge of members of a family in whom disease was thus exhibited; the father and his relatives were healthy, the mother died of cancer of the breast, two of her sisters of phthisis, and one of dropsy. Of six daughters, five had cancer of the breast, the youngest was still healthy, and the only son died of phthisis. On the other