272 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. If any of tliese propositions be erroneous, the error arises not simply from the difficulty inherent in the investigation of inoculation, but also from the difficulty of rightly estimating the mass of, ap- parently, contradictory evidence on this subject. The modus operandi of chancre in producing systemic infection, is doubtful. The lymphatic or absorbent vessels were formerly regarded by Hunter, and his school, as the only medium of transmitting the syphilitic virus. Independently of the experimental facts adduced by Segalas and Magendic, in evidence of the veins also being absorbents, there are two general facts which, apparently, disprove the absorbent function of the lymphatics, in the production of syphilitic systemic infection. (1.) That in those cases in which the irritation of the lymphatics is greatest, and where, therefore, we have the best evidence that the morbid matter has entered them, there is very seldom any secondary syphilitic afEection. (2.) That the best-marked cases of systemic infection are as rarely preceded by any very evident signs of inflammation of the lymphatic glands. In the first class of cases, moreover, the progress of the syphilitic virus may be traced along the lymphatic vessels as far as the first lymphatic glands in their course, but never beyond. In any part of this course, the poison may be arrested and produce a hard knotted cord or round induration, or even a fresh chancre; but there is no proof that the virus is con- veyed unchanged through these glands; on the contrary, the vessels beyond are never affected, and bubo never forms in the glands next in order. Thus, chancre on the penis or vulva induces bubo of the gland in the groin, above Poupart's ligament, but does not affect the vessels and glands within the abdomen; chancre on the finger affects the gland on the inner side of the biceps muscle just above the elbow, but not the axillary glands. Duly weighing these facts, and the analogy of the syphilitic virus with other poisons, in producing systemic infection, Mr. Lee is inclined to believe that the syphilitic virus is communicated directhj to the blood, through the nutritive changes of the part around a chancre, or point of inoculation. Treatment.—Primary and Local Venereal Ulcers.—The first con- sideration in the treatment of syphilis is the question of the prevention of systemic infection. (I.) GJiancre.—The early destruction of chancre, within the first four days after contagion, and thence the prevention of systemic infection, was known as the abortive treatment of syphilis ; that primary syphilis being thus anticipated, the secondary or con- stitutional form of the disease would not follow. Accordingly, cauteri- zation and excision of the chancre have both been advocated and practised; the former preventive measure especially, by Ricord and Sigmund of Vienna, and reported to have proved successful, for the prevention of infection, in some thousands of cases. But, considering the long period of incubation of the syphilitic virus,—two to three weeks as the average time, from the very beginning of which absorp- tion must have proceeded—and the fact also, that when chancre is produced, the system has already become infected, it will be obvious that any local treatment which shall be preventive or abortive of syphilis must be extremely improbable or even impossible. Destruc- tive cauterization has proved unsuccessful during the incubatory