SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 408 when caused by projectiles of modern design; their more deadly cha- racter bomg due to their greater power of penetration. Considerable importance has been attached to shock, in the sense of concussion of the whole body, by a heavy projectile, as a cannon-ball. But this can happen only when the velocity of any such projectile is so much reduced as to give time, in striking, to overcome the inertia of rest in the body. A cannon-ball at full speed may carry away a limb without knocking down the individual, who falls simply by the sudden shock of injury to the nervous system. Tetanus is of common occur- rence. But its frequency has varied much in different campaigns, and under different climatic influences. In the Peninsular War, it was estimated to occur in about 1 case in every 200 wounded; in the Schleswig-Holstein War, 1 in about 350 cases. In the Crimea, tetanus appears to have been a rare event. Alcock's estimate of 1 case in every <9 wounded is too high. After naval engagements, the mortality has often been high. Sir G. Blane states that, after Rodney's action, out of 810 wounded 20 were attacked with tetanus, being 1 in 40. But sudden change from heat to cold is the most frequent cause of tetanus among the wounded. This was observed after the battles of Moskowa, Bautzen, Dresden, Chilianwallah, and Ferozepore. The above statistics include the proportion of cases of tetanus arising from all kinds of wounds, besides gunshot. Course.—The vital career of a gunshot wound is analagous to that of a punctured wound, or of any contused and lacerated wound. Gan- grenous inflammation invariably supervenes, perhaps extensively, along the track of the wound ; and thus textures which may not have been killed more immediately, die subsequently. The total result is repre- sented by the slough which forms. About the fifth day of a gunshot wound, this slough begins to loosen from the margin of either aper- ture, if two exist, and the line of demarcation between the living and dead tissues is clearly visible; about the tenth day, the slough or sloughs may be seen hanging out of the openings, and come away in the dressings. A tubular casting of slough had hitherto intervened between the living tissues surrounding the track of the wound, and prevented its union by adhesion. Suppurative granulations supervene, and the wound heals, or should heal, from within outwards. Pending this process of reparation, tension is often extreme and extensive, and suppuration equally profuse and diffused. Secondary haemorrhage is not an uncommon event. It occurs most frequently on the sixth day. (Baudens.) Arteries which did not bleed primarily, or which were only slightly grazed, may now burst forth. Or a spiculum of dead bone, during the course of suppuration, is occasionally the cause, by penetration of an artery. Any secondary hemorrhage, if not suddenly fatal, may be uncontrollable, from its depth or in a disorganized part, or ultimately fatal in an individual already reduced by suppura- tive discharge. An unextracted hall plays a singular part in the subsequent history of a gunshot wound. Constant suppuration, and exfoliation if the ball be lodged in bone, are consequences which might be expected. But the ball may move from its first lodgment and travel to some distance, in a devious course, and ultimately find an exit or still remain in the body. Various functional disturbances arise during these peregrina- tions. Again, the ball may become encysted in dense fibro-cellular