765 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. uperior spinous process of the ilium than in dislocation upon the dor- sum ilii. The lumbar spine is arched, when the limb lies in a line with 'le trunk, but when flexed upon the pelvis, the back rests flat upon the I 'd. This arched appearance, and its subsidence, is due to the tension or .'laxation of the psoas and iliacus muscles. It is a most valuable sign, observes Mr. Syme, never being absent, nor is it ever met with in any other injury of the hip-joint, whether dislocation, fi-acture, or bruise. The diagnosis of these dislocations from other injuries is, generally, I ear. Fracktre of the neck of the femur, accompanied with inversion r the limb, is comparatively rare; and when it occurs, mobility and l epitus of the fragments will, usually, determine the diagnosis. Im- acted fracture, however, with consequently an absence of these signs, IS always an equivocal condition. Two points of distinction between I dislocation of the hip upwards and backwards, and impacted fracture, i are laid down by Erichsen : that in dislocation, the head of the bone 1 can be felt in its new situation by deep manipulation of the gluteal region; and that the trochanter is diagonal in its relative position to the anterior superior spinous process, whereas in fracture it lies nearly in a perpendicular line with it. Nelaton's "test line" affords : a ready and accurate indication of any elevation of the great trochanter having taken place. It is a hue drawn from the anterior superior spinous process of the ihum to the most prominent aspect of the tuberosity of the ischium. In the natural relation of the femur, what- ' ever the attitude of the limb may be, this line coincides with the : summit of the trochanter; but in either form of backward dislocation— dorsal or ischiatic—the trochanter rises above the line to half an inch or ; an inch higher. Disease of the hip-joint resembles dislocation upwards : and backwards, in its general characters; and particularly when advanced to the stage of shortening the limb. The antecedent history of limping lameness and pain, before any such resemblance becomes established, will sufliciently decide the diagnosis. Failing to recognize the nature of the case, instances have occurred of attempted reduction in hip-joint disease ; a sad mistake, and which would sorely aggravate the disease. Causes.—The attitude of the limb at the time of dislocation is always most influential in this, as in other such injuries. When the body is bent forward on the thigh or the thigh on the abdomen, and the thigh in a state of adduction close to the opposite thigh; * hip- dislocation upwards and backwards may then result from a fall on the foot or knee, and especially while the individual is carrying a load on the back; or from the fall of a heavy weight, as a mass of earth, upon the back of the pelvis, the body being much bent for- wards. Dislocation may thus take place either on the dorsum ilii, ^ or into the great sciatic notch; but, "to gain the latter situation, the limb must be in a position more nearly at a right angle with the trunk. Age has a remarkable relation to the frequency of hip-joint dislocation. Any such dislocation is comparatively rare in infancy and advanced life ; but it has been known to occur in an infant, six months old, as the earliest time, and at eighty-five years of age, as the latest time. The period of life during which dislocations of the hip occur more commonly, has been stated, by Sir A. Cooper, as being from twenty to fifty years; by Malgaigne, as from twenty to forty-five years; and by * The state of ahduclion may be the only causative position in all dislocations of the thigh. See "Med. Chir. Traus.," 1877. (H. Morris.)