498 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY ANP SURGERY. rarely ; thus differing in its pathology from that of intra-orbital aneu- rism, which was formerly regarded as an erectile growth. Mr. Busk has shown that many of these true aneurisms are traumatic ; and Mr. Nunneley maintains that all are ordinary spontaneous or traumatic aneurisms, except those which have spread into the orbit from a nsevtiB of the face. ^ Diagnosis.—The following general distinctions are adduced in evidence of this view : Aneurism by anastomosis comes on gradually, mostly in early life, as the result of the growth of a congenital naevus; aneurism of the orbit very suddenly, often as the result of a blow, and almost always in advanced life; aneurism by anastomosis occurs in the subcutaneous tissues; aneurism of the orbit generally in the deepest part of the cavity; aneurism by anastomosis involves all the neighbour- ing vessels, arteries, and veins, in active disease; aneurism of the orbit is generally limited to a single part, or if the neighbouring vessels are dilated, they seem only enlarged from obstruction ; ligature 6i the trunk of a vessel leading to an undoubted aneurism by anastomosis is an. extremely unsuccessful operation, in aneurism of the orbit a very successful one ; lastly, the cases dissected have turned out to be common aneurism. The diagnosis of anastomotic aneurism may perhaps be determined—as in Travers' and Dalrymjile's cases—by the presence of soft, compressible, thrilling tumours in various parts of the eyelids; collections of veins apparently, transmitting pulsation from the sub- jacent aneurism. (2.) At the base, or in the substance of the hrain, aneurism of the cerebral branches of the internal carotid, or of the cerebrellar arteries, is liable to occur. The symptoms, if any, are very equivocal; pressure arising possibly from other causes than cerebral aneurism, and the diagnosis, therefore, is equally obscure. The sensation of a sawing or rasping noise in the head, varying with the circulation, and which probably has supervened shortly after some injury, may be suggestive of aneurism ; a suspicion corroborated, perhaps, by careful auscultation of the head, leading to the detection of a bruit. Diagnosis.—Symptoms referable to pressure may arise from any other tumour ; and similar symptoms ensue from softening of the brain. Hence, general or partial paralysis, blindness, deafness, or other affec- tions of the special senses, are symptoms of an equivocal character. Causes.—A blow, a fall, or other traumatic mode of origin can be traced, in some cases ; in others, the symptoms seem to arise sponta- neously, without any previous ill-health. The cerebral arteries are said to be healthy, in most cases ; but this is improbable. Age notably affects the liability to intra-cranial aneurism ; the tendency increasing as life advances. Of 58 cases, in 12 only this condition occurred under twenty-five years of age, 6 of whom were under twenty: but of the remaining 46 cases, 13 occurred in persons under forty, 29 between forty and sixty, and 4 in persons above sixty. Sex seems to be pre- disposing, proi)ably in connection with occupation. Of the 58 cases, 35 were males, 23 females. Course and Terminations.—The pressure of an intra-cranial aneu- rism is followed by softening of the portion of brain, or cranial nerve, in contact; and, possibly, absorption of any opposing portion of bone. Symptoms of paralysis suj ervene. Death ensues by hemiplegia, or from a])oi)lexy by rupture of the aneurismal sac; the latter mode of