172 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. may be naturally continuous, or connected by adhesions. Of the former, Mr. Moore saw an instance where the only cancer in a lung was a small portion of an out-growing cancerous gland of the postei-ior mediastinum, and the only infected absorbent in the root of that lung was one of considerable size, not more than au inch from the implanted cancer. (6.) In contiguous textures also cancer may, apparently, spread, without any direct medium of infiltration. Dr. Hodgkin and other pathologists mention cases in which an ovary, the mesentery, or the liver, being the seats of cancer, the parts in contact with those organs, as the intestine, the walls of the abdomen, the supra-renal capsule or kidney itself, became similarly diseased, (c.) In textures and organs remote from the original growth, secondary cancer may appear.—(a) The lymphatic vessels are undoubtedly one channel of transmission. The almost unexceptional infection of the lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood of a cancerous growth,—and which is, indeed, one of the generically distinctive characters of cancers, as a growth—supports this view. Such infection, in relation to primary cancer, is parallel to bubo, in relation to chancre. Either, however, may also be regarded as part only of the primary disease. But cancer can be traced further in the lymphatic system, progressively infecting glands more and more remote from, yet still directly connected with, the part in which the growth first appeared. Surely this diffusion of cancer is secondary. In only about one out of every forty-three cases of fatal cancer is there secondary deposit in internal organs, without infection of the interven- ing lymphatic glands, en route, connected with the site of the external primary disease. The veins, and venous circulation, would appear to be far less a medium of transmission. Cancer-elements having entered the venous system, through the thoracic duct, the lung, as the proximate organ, would next become the seat of cancer-deposit. Yet, in 173 cases of cancer, the lymphatic glands were infected in 140, the lungs in 22 only. The fact, however, of both these organs being affected, in most cases, and simultaneously, indicates the agency of the pulmonary venous system, (y) The arteries and arterial circulation are engaged even less than the venous circulation. Arterial blood flows to all parts, yet they are not equally prone to cancer. The liver is first in order, thus contrasting with the lungs, among internal organs. It was the seat of secondary cancer in 60 of 173 instances taken indiscriminately, and in 60 of only 90 cases in which the disease spread at all beyond the lymphatic glands of the part first affected The kidney is far less liable,—it was attacked with consecutive cancer twice only in 173 cases; and the spleen but once in that number. The bones and serous membranes are both commonly invaded. These differences of liability suffice to show the extreme irregularity of secondary cancer, in its presumed relation to the arterial circulation, as the medium of transmitting cancer-elements from the primary growth. One general. law respecting the dissemination of cancer in the system, would seem to be this;—it is regulated, in some measure, by the retention of cancerous matter within the body, or its discharge externally through the integuments by ulceration or through some natural passage. Cancer of the uterus with free discharge per vaginam, is followed by secondary cancer in not more than 25 per cent.; whereas deep-seated cancer of the breast produces secondary