COMPOUND FRACTURE. 593 added. External violence is generally the cause of the wound in the skin and subjacent soft parts, as well as of the connected fractui'e; which may then be regarded as produced by an extension of the injury from without. Or the fractured bone may itself penetrate to the surface and through the skin; the wound then being an extension of the injury from ivitldn. In the one case, the force is applied directly to the seat of fracture, and the injuiy is more a contusion ; in the other case, the force is applied indirectly, to the bone at some distance off, and the injuiy is more a laceration, and less extensive. In both cases, the con- tused or lacerated textures are damaged beyond the apparent extent of injury; and the shock to the nervous system is more severe than with simple fracture, owing to the greater damage to the soft parts, in- cluding nerves. Tetanus is, perhaps, more apt to supervene than after a contused or lacerated wound alone, and especially if the compound fracture be oblique, and movable among nerves and muscles. The textures injured, being in a state of disintegration, die, at least to some extent around; if the wound be allowed to remain open. This pui^ely trmimatic gangrene is the same as that caused by a contused or lace- rated wound. Limited, therefore, to the part injured, and defined, eventually, by sloughing, or by a line of demarcation between the living and dead textures, the gangrene is immediate also, if the injury itself be severe. Course, and Termination.—Inflammation supervenes, followed by suppuration, perhaps profuse, and partial sloughing ; or by gangrene, on a larger scale. Either degree of mortification, arising from inflam- mation, is limited to the seat of injury. By this process, however, a fracture, which originally was simple, may become compound in some cases. Spreading gangrene—due to some morbid condition of the blood—supervenes on compound fracture, only as an occasional con- tingency; and its phenomena have been already described in connection with the course of contused and lacerated wounds. But the tendency of compound fracture, when reduced, is to undergo reparation; union of the fragments taking place, either through the medium of dense connective or fibrous tissue—an imper- fect support, or through a bony callus, with firm consoHdation, as in simple fracture. The wound in the soft textures closes up and heals by suppurative granulation and cicatrization. Under other circum- stances, union of the fracture is effected by ossifying granulations. Thus, if the bone, when reduced, be exposed, in an open suppurating wound—say, the fractured ends of the tibia—granulations may form on either end, and meeting together, coalesce, constituting a soft callus, which becomes ossified. When a portion of the bone dies, whether as the result of contusion or comminution, or having been laid bare by sloughing, or isolated by burrowing suppuration around the bone, the dead portion is slowly detached, by the process described in connection with Necrosis,—the detached piece being named an exfoliation, or a sequestrum ; then, the subjacent granulations springing up more freely, form the callus, which is transformed into new bone. (Fig. 195.) The histological process by which bone produces granulations, consists of the following changes, as demonstrated on or in a denuded portion of bone, e.g., the tibia. At about the end of ten days the bone, which had hitherto a yellowish colour, assumes a bright red tint, haying be- come more vascular. The surface is beset with a number of red 2q