811 ANCHYLOSIS. bands of false membrane may be thrown across the synovial capsule, forming adhesions, or the natural folds of the synovial membrane may have become adherent, with some stiffness of the joint. Either condition of anchylosis may be extra-capsular; the fibrous consisting of a thickened and indurated state, or perhaps cicatricial contraction, of the ligamentous capsule, with adhesions around the joint; and osseous anchylosis externally, being the formation of new bone around, and on the articular surfaces of, the joint. Besides these conditions, a species of anchylosis or stiff joint may depend on partial dislocation, from destructive disease of the joint, or an unreduced partial displacement by injury. A contracted state of the muscles, or of a cicatrix, acting on a joint, may also produce stiffness of the articulation,—not, properly speaking, an anchylosis. (1.) Fibrous anchylosis is liable to happen to any joint; and the shortened and contracted state of the muscles acting on the joint gives an apparent firmness to the anchylosis, beyond that due to the joint-condition; a portion of the articu- Fig. 426.* lation generally remaining sound. (2.) Osseous anchylosis occurs most commonly in the hip, knee, or elbow (Fig. 426) ; the articular surfaces seeming to be fused together, as seen more clearly on a vertical section of the bones. Both states of anchylosis are attended with a proportionate loss of mobility in the joint; the fibrous allows of some degree of motion, more so, perhaps, under chloroform; the osseous presents a perfectly rigid and immovable joint. But firm ad- hesions, short and extensive, may simulate osseous anchylosis ; and the probability of the latter having taken place will then depend on the long duration of an immovable condition. Both anchyloses are accompanied with more or less deformity of the limh, arising from mal-position of the bones obediently to muscular contraction; unless the anchylosis has resulted under proper and effectual surgical supervision. The Causes of anchylosis have reference to inflammatory diseases of the joints ; synovitis, or caries ; and, perhaps, primary ulceration of the articular cartilages, as already described. De- struction of the cartilages, in either case, may Fig. 427.t be succeeded by reparation, in the form of anchylosis. The fibrous state represents the incomplete result of reparation; the osseous state, its completion, by the transformation of the fibrous matrix into bone. The co-exist- ence of necrosis with anchylosis is rare. But in the following case, a sequestrum of cancel- lous tissue in the head of the femur, with destruction of a central portion of the articular cartilage, is associated with yi6?-oits anchylosis of the hip-joint. (Fig. 427, vertical section.) Just in front of the anterior inter-trochan- teric line, an opening through the cancellous tissue gave vent to purulent discharge by a fistulous abscess, which * King's Coll. JIus., 1125. t St. Thomas's Hcsp. Mus., D. 49.