847 HYSTERIA. if for breatli, and the state of the countenance, continue for a few minutes, or sometimes a longer period; until suddenly, tlie fit terminates in bursts of screeching laughter, or in screaming, crying, or sobbing, perhaps alternating with laughter. As thus described, the hysteric fit differs from that of epilepsy; in which the person suddenly becomes ixnconscious, and falling down from loss of voluntary power, is seized with convulsive movements and contortions, affecting the body wholly or partially. This state is accompanied with strangling obstruction to the respiration, from laryngeal spasm; giving rise to turgid lividity of the face, and there is hideous distortion of the features. Protrusion of the tongue, which is often bitten and bleeding, grinding of the teeth, and foaming at the mouth, are further marks of distinction in the picture of epilepsy. Even in the partial form of this disease, the 2}etit mal, complete loss of consciousness is the essential condition; the person losing himself, if only for a few moments, perhaps in the act of conversation; and recovering, without any convulsive movement, after this temporaiy fit of apparent abstraction, but real oblivion. There is a modified form of the hysteric fit, wherein all the phe- nomena do not occur; the attack never coming to a crisis, or being " kept off," as the patient says, by a strong effort of the Avill. The fit thus suppressed, is always worse when it does come; and an attack of this kind may continue for days, the unhappy victim of hysteria seeming to be on the verge of an outburst. In such cases as I have seen, the nervous excitement is attended with a very weak state of the. circulation, as denoted by a sense of chilliness and a pallid appeai-ance, alternating with heats and flushing or mottling of the face, and an ever-ready flow of tears. The slightest emotion, or even the notice of a person when in this sensitive state, may be sufficient to swell " the fruitful river of the eye." This manifestation of hysteria nearly re- sembles hypochondriasis, which, when occurring in the male sex, has been regarded as another form of the disease. Local Hysteric Affections, and Diagnosis.—In further pursuing the clinical history of Hysteria, the description of the general symptoms of this disease, as manifested by an hysterical "fit," conveys no idea of the various local manifestations which the disease often assumes in different parts of the body. No organ or part may be exempt, but the more common seats of these local symptoms are, without specifying the order of frequency in the parts affected: the joints, particularly the knee and hip; the female breast; the spine, from the atlas to the tip of the coccyx; the side of the trunk, especially under the left lower ribs ; the abdomen; the bladder; the uterus, the ovaries, the clitoris and nymphfB; also, the nervous and muscular systems in divers situations. These organs and parts of the body, more especially, exhibit the symp- toms of local Hysteria, whether by pain of a peculiar chai-acter, or some functional disturbances. Thus, a young female may be subject to pains m the joints and breasts; spinal tenderness, and acute joain in the coccyx on pressure; or abdominal tenderness with tynipantic distension, and pain in the left side; or there may be irritability of the urinary bladder, and painfully urgent, frequent micturition, with an abundant ejection of pale, watery urine; or some form of uterine disorder, as amenorrhcea or dysmenorrhoea, is not uncommon, associated perhaps with ])ain on slight palpation over the ovaries, and a general sen- sitiveness of the external genitals; or various nervo-muscular affections