534 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. for operation, owing to its greater depth in that part of its course, and rtiore intimate relation to the cords of the brachial plexus. But the lino of incision is indicated in the figure. Below the small pectoral, the artery is most superficial and acces- sible, particularly beyond the great pectoral muscle. Abducting the arm and bending the forearm will bring the vessel even more to the surface, and also relax the nervous cords surrounding it. An incision about three inches long may be made from the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, downwards over the course of the artery, along the border of the coraco- brachialis muscle, dividing the skin and fascia. (Fig. 157.) The deep or aponeurotic fascia must then be divided. By draw- ing the median nerve to the outside, and the vein to the inside of the wound, the artery can readily be discovered, and separated so as to pass the ligature-needle without including either of the adjoining nerves which lie around the vessel. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—Stirgical Anatomy.—In con- tinuation of the axillary, the brachial artery commences at the Imver border of the tendon of the latissimus and teres major muscles, and terminates just below the bend of the elbow, opposite the neck of the radius ; where it divides into the radial and ulnar branches. (See Fig. 156.) In direation, this artery winds round the humerus, from above at its internal aspect, to below in front of that bone and the elbow-joint. Throughout its extent, the vessel is superficial; except at the elbow, where it sinks into the flexure of the joint. Covered throughout its course by the skin, superficial and deep fascia, at the elbow the brachial artery is also overlaid by a pro- longation from the tendon of the biceps muscle, and by the median basilic vein horizontally crossing the line of the artery. Behind, from above downwards, it has the following relations. As the vessel lies inside the humerus, it rests on the long head of the triceps muscle and then on its inner head ; inclining to the front, it rests on the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and then on the brachialis anticus muscle, to the bend of the elbow. Thus the artery is supported by muscles throughout its course. At the outer side, the brachial corresponds, above, to the coraco-brachialis, overlaid by the biceps, to about the middle of the arm, or opposite the insertion of the deltoid externally ; and in the remainder of its extent, to the biceps only, as the vessel lies on the brachialis anticus. In the bend of the elbow, the tendon of the biceps passes down, on the outer side of the vessel. In immediate re- lation are two vence comites, one on either side of the artery, and which encircle it with communicating branches; these veins taking the place of the single large axillary vein above, on the inner side of the axillary artery. A superficial vein—the basilic—overlies the bra- chial, separated by the deep aponeurotic fascia, to about the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, or the middle of the arm; there penetrating the fascia, this vein becomes continuous with the axillary. Fig. 157.