SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fracture may again become disunited, loose and movable. TIjc causes of disruption may be local; as mechanical violence, occasioning immediate destruction of the callus, or inflammation aifecting it, and opcratmg more slowly; or possibly some constitutional causative con- dition, as scurvy. The treatment accordingly must have reference to the nature of such causes. CHAPTER XXXII. SPECIAL FKACTUEES. Fractures of the Cranium.—These Fractures are so intimately related to Injuries of the Brain, that they are more conveniently considered with those lesions.—See Head-Injuries. Fractures of the Spine.—See Spine. Fractures of the Facial Bones. (1.) Fracture of the Nasal Bones.—Structural Condition.—Dis- placement of the bones may be slight; or the bridge of the nose flattened or sunk ; witb more or less contusion of the integuments, extending even to the cheeks. The lachrymal bone, sometimes, participates in the injury, with rupture of the lachrymal sac, or of the nasal duct. The cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone has, it is said, been found driven up into the brain, thus occasioning serious or fatal injury to that organ. Sig7is.—Haemorrhage from the nose is often profuse and per- sistent. In one case in the Hospital, a policeman, whose nose had been broken on several occasions of conflict with ruffians, nearly bled to death. The avpearance of the nose before the supervention of swelling is characteristic, if there be much displacement; and then, the loose mobility of the fi-agments, and their crepitation in the spongy swelling, when lightly handled with the fingers—feeling sometimes like a bag of fragments—will at once suffice to detect the nature of the in- jury. The discharge of tears over the face, with emphysema of the eyelids and forehead, denote an extension of the fracture laterally to the lachrymal bone. Some symptoms of concussion of the brain may accompany the fracture; or those 'of compression, owing probably to an extension of the fracture to the ethmoid plate. Causes.—Direct violence is the only mode of fracture of the nasal bones. And such force must, usually, be considerable, to break down the articulations of these bones with the frontal and superior maxillary bones. A severe blow or fall are the ordinary causes of this injury. Course and Terminations.—Union takes place, and with tolerable readiness, not perhaps more than a week elapsing, in most cases. There is a notable absence of provisional callus around the bones, accordmg to the observations of both ]\Ialgaigne and Hamilton. Deformity in