FRACTURE. 585 tlie same species o£ bird is also represented iaa tlie figure. Much thickening of the bone has occurred at the seat of fracture in this case, but no external callus; the sharp margin of the original fracture—an oblique one—being plainly seen at the line of junction by an inter- mediate callus, as the only bond of union. Separation of an epiphysis readily undergoes reparation by osseous union. Ligamentous union only takes place where, apparently, the vascular supply is insttflS.cient for osseous repair ; e.g., in fracture of processes of bone, as the olecranon, and coronoid process of the ulna; or within a joint, as intracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur; or where the fragments are not retained in apjDosition, as in transverse frac- ture of the patella. Exceptional instances of ossific union may be met with in some such cases ; as in an intra-condyloid fracture of the femur. (Mus. St. George's Hosp.) The period for the completion of fracture-union is uncertain. The average period for the production of firm, and therefore apparently ossific, union may be said to vary from six to eight weeks ; soft union taking place in a shorter period, and during childhood in perhaps a week or ten days. At the former time, I have known fracture of the clavicle united by soft callus. Grenerally, the process of repair is more speedy in the upper extremity than in the lower limb. Various adverse conditions, of a persistent character, may severally tend to retard or arrest the formation of callus. Causes predisposing to fracture have this additional efEect. Such, perhaps, are age, and certain blood-diseases; e.g., rickets and mollities ossium, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy. Exception may, I think, be taken to the alleged mal-influence of rickets. In one case, especially, a very rickety child, four years of age, having met with fracture of the right femur; fiirm union, il found, had formed on the twenty-third day. Other causes, not predisposing to fracture, have, perhaps, the same tendency to prevent union. Such are febrile disturbances, erysipelas, starvation, pregnancy, and certain local conditions ; as muscular action, frequent movement of a fractured limb, the direction of fracture as facilitating the recurrence of displacement, and the intervention of a piece of muscle, or dead bone, loetween the fragments. The Prognosis of Fracture, as a lesion healing by a modification of the process of primary adhesion, is favourable. Otherwise, it will be determined by a due consideration of all those internal causes, which in their operation of retarding or arresting the formation of callus, thus perpetuate the injury. Sometimes the shaft of a bone becomes atrophied, when the nutritious artery is implicated by the fracture. Treatment.—Immediately after Fracture, the occasion for Surgical interference is urgent. The hard and rough portions of bone, subject to the action of muscles, or other movement, are apt to lacerate and bruise the surrounding textures. This state of the part is more pro- voked by fracture accompanied with displacement, and when the "broken ends of bone are pointed, as in oblique fracture. Hence arises increased and continued pain, spasm of the muscles, haemorrhage and tension; or inflammation, advancing so far as to prevent the formation of reparative lymph at a subsequent period. Compound fracture may be produced, by either fragment piercing the skin. Sbock also, which would have been slight and transient, is perpetuated. The rule of