675 PERIOSTITIS AND ENDOSTITIS. Fig. 290.t texture. Thus, softened tubercle, a curdy, unliealtliy pus, and carious or necrosed portions of bone are commonly found associated and intermixed. The matter extending, may sometimes find its way to the surface; and a chronic abscess, communicating with the bone, remain, discharging, or with little disposition to heal. Or, the matter may find its way to a neighbouring joint, destroying the * articulation. But the comparatively limited localization of tubercle diminishes the perilous results of these destruc- tive changes. If the shaft of a long bone be affected, the articular ends are, generally, free; and if either end of the bone be the seat of tuberculous deposit, the shaft escapes. Syphilitic ostitis does not seem to be distinguished from simple inflammation of bone by any structural differences of practical importance. (2.) Peeiostitis.—Inflammation of the periosteum is usually connected with that of the bone itself—ostitis. The periosteal membrane becomes more vascular, thickened, softened, and loosened from its connection with the sub- jacent bone. These alterations may be seen, sometimes, in the bone of a stump, after amputation. Subsequently, an osseous deposit may take place between the periosteum and bone, with some enlargement and induration of that portion of bone, constituting a JiocZe. (Fig. 289.) A syphilitic node, which may be regarded as the type, arises from an effusion of lymph between the periosteum and bone; and proceeding from the former, at length involves the bone. A strumous node, on the other hand, consists of scrofulous matter between the periosteum and bone, in consequence of a carious state of that portion of bone. Suppuration will be noticed as a consequence of Periostitis. (3.) Endostitis.—Inflammation of the endos- teum, or membrane lining the medullary canal and cancelli, is, probably, of less frequent occurrence. This membrane, however, undergoes analogous changes to those of the periosteum, when inflamed —increased vascularity, and thickening. A deposit of lymph or pus ensues, in consequence of endostitis. (Fig. 290.) The section of a tibia, in this illustra- tion of endostitis, shows not only that suppuration has taken place in the medullary canal and adjoin- ing cancellous tissue, but also that the latter structure has become consolidated, in parts, by the production of new bone; thus corresponding to the result of ostitis, which has also occurred, as shown by the great thickness of the walls of the bone. Signs.—Ostitis, affecting the deeper portion of the substance of a bone, is unattended with any appreciable signs, in the first instance. A deep- seated wearing pain generally precedes any altera- * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 23. f ibid. 1, 131. i m