693 NECEOSIS. discover the rotigh, loose sequestrum; or, wlieu visible, it may be recognized by its dead-white appearance, or blackened by decomposing purulent discharge. Exfoliation is more open to examination. Necrosis is attended with violent and deep-seated pain, considerable redness, and Fig. 313. swelling of the surrounding soft parts. Suppuration ensues sooner or later, in •consequence of inflammation of the bone— ostitis—having led to and being connected with the necrosis, or as the result of pro- longed irritation of the sequestrum, itself a foreign body. The matter discharged through the fistulous openings is usually ■sanious, dark coloured, and fetid, although sometimes it has the thick, yellow charac- -fcer of healthy pus ; especially in necrosis arisinar from an external cause, as com- pound fracture, and with a healthy consti- tution. The extent of the sequestrum will be fairly declared by the boundary of the integumental swelling, and by the spaces between the cloacas (Fig. 313), when a probe is introduced. The fever, which had been that of inflammation, during the previous ostitis, assumes an irritative character, when bone becomes necrosed; and, suppuration, with prolonged purulent discharge, is attended with hectic and great exhaustion. Unlike caries, necrosis occurs more frequently in the shafts, than in the articular ends, of long bones; and more often in the compact, than in the cancellated structure, of any bone. This diiierence of liability is due apparently to the lower degree of vascularity, and of vitality therefore, in the com- pact osseous texture. Every bone is subject to necrosis, but certain bones are more commonly affected: the tibia, femur, humerus, ulna, radius, clavicle, lower jaw, upper jaw, scapula, and cranium. In the ■flat bones, last named, necrosis usually takes the form of exfoliation. Central necrosis is necessarily more obscure, owing to the depth of the morbid condition. The symptoms resemble those of chronic abscess in the substance of bone. Deep-seated and, perhaps, throbbing pain, with some swelling of the bone, or pufiiness over a particular spot, are the more characteristic symptoms, and their persistence is even more significant. Causes.—'External and traumatic causes seem to have a more abso- lute effect in producing necrosis, unaided by any predisposing constitu- tional influence, than in relation to caries. Any injury detaching the periosteum will probably be followed by more or less necrosis ; except- ing in the cranial bones, or others which are highly vascular. Violent contusion may so damage the osseous texture and medullary membrane as to produce necrosis. Severe cold, as in frost-bite, and deep burns are also immediate causes. Powerful irritants have a marked effect apart from any inflammatory action. Thus, the fumes of phosphorus, in lucifer-match manufactories, often produce necrosis of the lower jaw; this powerful irritant entering the bone, apparently, through