640 SPECIAL PATIIOLOOY AND SURGERY. Fig. 241. hancI, with loss of pronation and supination; supply additional signs and symptoms, which further manifest the nature of the injury. Comminution of the lower or articular fragment (Fig. 240) will render some of these signs more perceptible; mobility and crepitus, in particular. Imimction of the upper into the lower fragment would render the two latter signs imperceptible, more or less entirely, according to the firmness of the impaction. Separation of the radial epiphysis must be a very rare form of injury. I know of only two instances in which it has been verified by dissection. One specimen— marked 1, 94 (Fig. 241)—is preserved in the collec- tion of St. George's Hospital. The other is in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital; and this is es- pecially valuable, as showing an arrested growth of the shaft of the radius, to an inch less in length, as compared with the ulna, consequent on the loss of the epiphyseal growth of the radius. Fracture of the lower end of the ulna, with that of the radius, simalates dislocation of the wrist backwards. Mobility of the carpal fragments in connection with any movements of the hand, and crepitus, are diagnostic of this double fracture in the vicinity of the wrist-joint. Causes.—Indirect violence, by a fall on the palm of the hand, is the usual mode of fracture, thereby breaking the radius transversely within ■ an inch above its articular surface, perhaps also comminuting this frag- ment ; or allowing the upper fragment-end to be driven into, and im- pacted in it. A fall on the bach of the hand may cause a similar fracture, but throw the lower fragment forwards instead of backwards. Such a displacement is described by Robert Smith as having been met with in one case, and Hamilton has seen another case ; neither, however, were verified, as to their pathological condition, by dissection; nor is there —observes the latter authority—to be found one such specimen in any of the pathological collections in Dublin. Colles' fractui'e may also, it is said, be occasioned by direct violence. I am not acquainted with any such case. Treatment.—Reduction of the displacement often requires consider- able extension and counter-extension to effect it satisfactorily, not to say completely. Many forms Fig. 242. of splint or retentive appara- ratus have been contrived. Two splints are commonly used: a long, curved, or pistol-shaped splint (Fig. 242), extending from the elbow to the fingers, whereby the hand can be well drawn downwards to the MZ?ia?'side; and a short, straight splint, extending from the elbow only to the wrist. These splints may be applied—the one along the palmar sur- face of the forearm and hand, and the other to the dorsal surface of the forearm ; or in the opposite arrangement. Of these two plans, I prefer the former. Thus, the pistol-shaped