GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 68 Gayarret to rise as higli as ten parts in 1000 of blood drawn, in acute articular rlieumatism, and in pneumonia. The source of this additional proportion of fibrin is doubtful. Simon suggests that the blood-discs are transformed into fibrin, and in conformity with an acknowledged physical law, that as textures waste in proportion to their functional activity, so therefore the blood- discs disintegrate more abundantly in inflammation—owing to their function as bearers of oxygen to the various textures being overtaxed, in the more frequent transmission of these discs through the lungs, by acceleration of the blood's circulation. The flotilla of oxygen-laden cells perishes from overpresscd service, and their wrecks are converted into fibrin. Simon's statement that the discs decrease in quantity proportionately to the increase of fibrin, harmonizes with his theory; but, against it, Becquerel and Rodier urge that this destructive change ought to take place whenever the circulation is accelerated, and therefore whenever fever exists. Yet an increased proportion of fibrin is not found in other fevers accompanied with an accelerated circulation. Is the excessive fibrin transformed albumen ? Probably similarity of composition allows of such transformation; and certainly, as the albu- men diminishes in quantity, so does the proportion of fibrin increase. Of this metamorphosis we know neither the cause nor the mechanism, observe Becquerel and Rodier. Summarily, the coagulation of inflammatory blood—when drawn and fresh—-amounts generally to this : the blood-discs, having an nndue tendency to aggregate, and the net they form an undue power of contracting, more speedily sink in serum, normally of less specific gravity than the discs individually, of still less than the shrunken net of discs; and that this separation of the discs (before coagulation of the fibrin) is facilitated by their reduced number, and by diminished specific gravity of the serum itself. The fibrin, itself increased in quantity, then coagulates free of blood-discs, at least in its upper portion, and rises to the surface of the serum, its ascent being probably aided by admixture with the free and floating fat. Pathology of Inflammatorij Fever.—The alterations of the hlood, in connection with inflammation, proceed apparently from the persistent local determination of blood, coupled with the increased productiveness and destruction of the textures. The increased proportion of fibrin, and the increased tendency to coagulation and to separation and con- traction of the fibrin in a free state forming the buffy coat, are both commonly proportionate to the extent of the inflammation, and its duration in an active state. Under similar circumstances of nutrition, the same blood-conditions are induced in a greater or less degree; as during pregnancy, when the uterus is growing ; and the buffed appear- ance of the blood is readily induced hy inflammation in fast-growing children, in whom also the plastic products are then unusually copious. Other writers believe—and Mr. Simon ranks himself most unreservedly among them—" that the blood yields more fibrin, not in proportion as it is ripe and perfect, but rather in proportion to quite opposite conditions ; that an increased yield of fibrin corresponds not to the rise, but to the decline, of albuminous material; that its relations are not with repair, but with waste ; that its significance is that of something intermediate between life and excretion."