GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 130 Simi^le Cysts.—A cyst is formed of fibro-cellular tissue, but without an epithelial lining. This is present in the more finished cysts, and is usually the tessellated variety of epithelium. A more perfect secreting surface is thus prepared, and the varieties of simple cysts take their names from the nature of their secretions—their contents. Thus we recognize the serous, sanguineous, synovial, mucous, oily, colloid, and seminal cysts. These barren cysts may be found in almost any part of the body— and to this subject I shall have occasion again to refer in connection with the origin of cysts—but the seminal cyst has, so far as I am aware, been found attached exclusively to the spermatic cord, and by virtue of the spermatozoa which it contains, may be regarded as on the verge of that higher organization which characterizes the proliferous cyst. Proliferous Cysts.—The organized growths within a proliferous cyst are sometimes simple cells, detached, or pedunculated and attached to the interior of the cyst whence they have sprung. Thus are formed the common cystigerous ovarian tumours. Occasionally the sub-cysts are found imbedded in the walls of the parent cyst, or even projecting from its external surface, so as almost to appear of exogenous forma- tion. This mode of cyst-formation is, I think, illustrated by inference from Dr. Mettenheimer's observations on the structure of the common hydatid mole, or cystic disease of the chorion ; but for the details of this supposed process the student is referred to Sir James Paget's Lectures. Glandular proliferous cysts are so named from their containing some kind of organized substance or substances, the structure of which resembles some kind of healthy gland-tissue, and for the most part that in which the cysts are imbedded. The thyroid and mammary glands, and perhaps the prostate and labial glands, are the chosen seats of this species of cyst. But a gland uliferous cyst may be developed apart from any connection with a secreting gland. A tumour of this kind was removed by Paget from beneath the gracilis and adductor longus muscles of a woman twenty-five years old. The patient remained well at the end of more than three years afterwards. A similar case and operation occurred to Lawrence. Cutaneous proliferous cysts are so called from their structure con- sisting of, or containing skin or its remains, with hair, or other forms of epidermic tissue, and fat. These cysts are not necessarily confined to the skin, as sebaceous and atheromatous tumours or wens, but are more commonly found in ovarian tumours; and, very rarely, in the testicle, lung, kidney, bladder, sublingual tissue, and within the skull. Teeth may also be discovered within capsules in abnormal situations, as in ovarian tumours, and the jaws ; and such capsules have received the name of dentigerous proliferous cysts. Signs and Diagnosis.—The signs and the distinctive characters of cysts are chiefly physical; their diagnosis from all other tumours beiug an application of pathological anatomy, through the medium of Physical Sign A simple or barren cyst, with its fluid contents, necessarily implies a circumcribed and fluctuating tumour, or the resistance only of fluid pressure. Such are cysts,—serous, sanguineous, enlarged synovial bursse, adventitious ganglia, often seen on the back of the wrist,