433 BOIL OE FUEUNCULUS. otlaer tand, compression tas been advocated, in the direction from tlie circumference to the centre of the carbuncle; a layer of soap-plaster on leather, having a central aperture, is applied, and then cross-strips of adhesive strapping. Lastly, non-interference is recommended by some Surgeons of experience, as a general rule, and especially by Sir James Paget. In his highly suggestive " Clinical Lectures and Essays," so many valuable observations are urged, and so persuasively, to show the inutiHty or positive harm of any active treatment generally, that I should at once perhaps be converted from the error of my ways, if only I had seen as many illustrative cases. The constitutional treatment, medicinal and dietetic, much resembles that of phlegmonous erysipelas. Early recourse to stimulants, tonics^ and a generous diet; but with special attention to the state of the liver and digestive organs. Yet here we encounter the chief difficulties. Inappetency, nausea or actual sickness, and mal-assimilation, all conspire to defeat our alterative mercurials and effervescing salines, as well as our endeavours to coax the stomach with digestible and nourishing food. If any other disease, to wit, diabetes or albuminuria, be associated with cai'buncle, such complication will further embarrass the treatment. According to Sir James Paget's large experience, comprising not less than two hundred cases of carbuncle, the con- stitutional treatment requisite is very simple: no special recourse to stimulants and tonics, with a supporting diet; but principally fresh air, without confinement to bed, and opiates to procure sleep or allay pain. Cerebral symptoms, arising from facial carbuncle, must be met by the application of ice or cold lotions to the head, and mild con- stitutional measures repressive of inflammation. The mortality of ordinary carbuncle is about two per cent; a lower death-rate than in perhaps any other disease of equal extent and severity. Boil or Furunculus.—In some of its external characters, Boil con- trasts with Carbuncle. It is an inflammatory swelling, of a conical shape, softening as it maturates, but set in a hard base ; of a purplish- red colour, and exquisitely painful and sensitive. Its size is much more moderate than carbuncle, never perhaps exceeding the smallest swelling of that kind, about half a crown. Its smaller size and conical shape are diagnostic, even in an early stage. Enlarging slowly, matter forms at the apex of the cone, tipping it with a yellow colour; this point bursts and discloses a subjacent slough or core of cellular texture. But the cribriform, flat surface of carbuncle is never seen,—another diagnostic difference. Like carbuncle, a boil is commonly situated where the skin is thickest; on the back of the neck, the shoulders, or the buttock, the latter being a favourite spot of election; occasionally m the armpit, or on the thigh. They always seem to choose the most troublesome situations. To increase the torment, they seldom come singly, but are gregarious or successive. Feverishiess, generally of a more sthenic character than with car- buncle, accompanies the formation of boils. The causes also, so far as they are known, somewhat differ from those of carbuncle. Usually occurring in earlier life, boils are also connected with a plethoric state of the system; but they may denote an enfeebled condition, or they may appear in the sequel of febrile diseases. Their fitful character is often far less explicable. Active exercise by persons of sedentary habits, sea-bathing, the spring-time of 2 s