502 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 135. formed, have already been noticed. Ten of the patients died Nine were cases of subclavian aneurism; the remaining two, aneurism of both the subclavian and carotid arteries. The single successful case was a subclavian aneurism. (See Aneurisms at the root of the Neck ) In the following case by Mr. E; R. Bickersteth, of the Liverpool Royal Infirmary, the result was unsuccessful, death having taken place from haemorrhage on the fourteenth day after operation; but the state of the artery, and of the aneurism, as found on dissection, showed a tendency to recovery, which is so far encouraging. (Fig. 135.) The innominate, from its origin to the point of ligature, being filled with a firm closely fitting plug of fibrine, was thus most satis- factorily occluded. Above the ligature, the vessel was empty ; and in the aneurism, laminated clot-formation had completely closed up the sac. On the other hand, the distal portion of the subclavian, and first part of the axillary artery, were occluded. Two ligatures had been applied to the innominate, but very close together, leaving a linear interval, where the vessel had been compressed by a wire beneath and a me- tallic bar above. Both li^a- tures were found still in situ, and the haemorrhage had pro- ceeded from the distal side of the upper ligature, where the vessel had become par- tially severed. The wound was tolerably healthy. In connection with this case, it may be added that the heart was healthy, but the aorta exhibited atheromatous degeneration. All the other viscera were quite normal. The patient, a man aged forty, had been of strong muscular development, occupied as a dock porter; and by a strain the aneurism seems to have been produced, only three weeks before admission to the infirmary. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. Ivi.) Aneurism of the subclavian, in the first part of the artery,—internal to the scaleni—might admit of compression, or of ligature, on the distal side of the tumour; but with what success remains to be shown. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Subclavian.—Punctured wounds are occasionally met with, as a sword-thrust, or stab with a knife. Such a wound of the subclavian artery is usually fatal, before suflficient time has elapsed for traumatic aneurism to arise. Aneurismal Varix of the subclavian artery and vein has been known, to occur, in like manner.