345 DELIKIUM TEEMENS. safely, in doses of from ten to twenty grains, repeated every two or three hours, until sleep is induced, or perhaps even a hundred grains may have been thus given; watching the piilse from time to time. But further than that I do not think it judicious to try the influence of chloral. The dose has been carried to even fifty and sixty grains; and until the whole quantity taken has amounted to two hundred grains. Yet death has occm-red suddenly in the course of such heroic treatment; a second fifty-grain dose having had a fatal issue, and in the case of a regular chloral-taker, whose system had gradually become accustomed to a single dose of that quantity. But it should ever be remembered that the action of chloral is cumulative; producing narcotism, when least expected, or suddenly overwhelming the patient. Bromide of jiotassium may be had recourse to with advantage, when chloral should be regarded with suspicion, and tried only experimentally; at least, such is my experience of the relative merits of these two agents, as narcotics, yistead of opium, in the treatment of delirium tremens. But another consideration of primary importance in all cases, is the improbability of procuring sleep, while the blood remains charged with the alcoholic poison. Here the disease presents a dilemma, which has given rise to much difference of opinion, as to the proper course of treatment. Coma threatens, from serous effusion on the brain, thus siisffesting; the continued use of the accustomed stimulants to maintain the circulation; on the other hand, the state of the blood, already charged with alcohol, forbids their further administration. It has been m-ged that a person long accustomed to alcoholic stimulants, cannot suddenly discontinue them with impunity. But this objection is over- ruled by the fact—first, I believe, adduced by Dr. Peddie—that in prisons, where a large number of confirmed drunkards are admitted and immediately placed on a diet without such stimulants, dehrium tremens seldom occurs. Nevertheless, when the disease has commenced, the continuance of stimulants, in some measiire, is mostly advisable, as a precaution against coma. Thus, I would recommend a compromise between the total deprivation of stimulants, during an attack of delirium tremens, which some have advocated, and that pouring in of brandy, wine, and beer, each or all of which may be regarded as only so much additional fuel to the fire. Greater restriction also may be practised in accordance with the pathology of the disease; the com- parative absence of cerebral congestion, and that the tendency to coma arising from this cause, is much increased by any coercive restraint of the patient. When thus ai-oused to violent resistance, the turgid veins in the neck, the su.ffu.sed face and blood-shot eyes, tell too plainly of the aggravated tendency to cerebral congestion and effusion. Hence, a strait-waistcoat should not be had recourse to unnecessarily, and then only as a temporary restraint. Exhaustion can be overcome, for a time, by stimulants; permanently, only by such nourishing food as shall restore the blood, and thence the nervous system, to a healthy state. Here, perhaps, the chief difliculty m the treatment has to be encountered. Little or nothing in shape of food will settle on the irritable stomach. Blue pill, and effervescing ammoniacal salines, with, strange as it may seem, a moderate and regulated allowance of the patient's customary beverage, supply the best means of allaying the irritability of this organ. But the assimi- lation of food is probably very imperfect; and it is a far greater