GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 64 Febrile urine exhibits physical characters and chemical peculiarities of diagnostic importance. At first, it has a deep red colour, strong urinous odour, super-acid reaction, high specific gravity; and the quantity secreted in a given time is diminished. These alterations are chiefly owing to a reduced proportion of vs^ater, rather than of solid constituents in the urine, which has thus become concentrated. But the inorganic salts, especially the chloride of sodium, are diminished, both absolutely and relatively; while uric acid and the urates are increased. Even when urates are not deposited, there is always an excess of uric acid. Urea is increased in some cases, and probably diminished in others. The greatest quantity present would appear to be in meningitis, and an excess is found during exudation; but urea is diminished during resorption, in pneumonia, pleurisy, and in acute rheumatism, especially if accompanied with endocarditis. Extractive matter is generally increased, and lactic acid is often present. Oc- casionally, a small quantity of albumen is found, but only for a short time. As inflammatory fever declines, the urine deposits a lateritious brick-dust, coloured sediment, more or less abundant, consisting of urate of ammonia. The quantity of sxveat is much diminished during inflammatory fever, but its chemical composition at that time is not well understood. Ulcers, also, which have been discharging freely become diy. The flow of saliva is less free, and the tongue furred. This appearance arises from a material of whitish yellow or brown colour and firm consistence, overlaying the posterior and middle portion of the tongue on its upper aspect, and adheinng closely. It cannot be removed altogether by scraping, but as the fever declines it is shed spontaneoxisly. If, says Dr. Thomson, this fur arose from the nature of the saliva secreted, then, instead of being found only on the upper, middle, and posterior parts of the tongue, we should find it incrusting the whole internal surface of the mouth. It is probably secreted from the papillag to which it adheres. A similar appearance arises from irritation of the stomach, without any fever at all. Discrimination, therefore, is neces- sary, by considering whether other symptoms concur. Blood.—The blood undergoes certain very important alterations in inflammation, and which are of two kinds,—namely, in respect to its vital properties, and therefore as affecting its coagulability and coagu- lation; and in respect to its chemical composition. The resultant blood-condition affords another and very significant symptom of inflammatory fever, and which can be readily ascertained, when neces- sary, by drawing off a sample, say a few ounces, from the general mass of blood, as supplied by venesection. (fi.) The altered vt^ai properties of the blood comprise—an increased tendency to coagulation, and to the separation and contraction of the fibrin in a free state. The phenomena known as the huffy coat and sizy blood are thus produced. These appearances can be understood by comparing the changes which take place, as observed in the coagulation of healthy blood. Let 51 pint of fresh-drawn blood be exposed in a shallow basin; im- mediately a vapour, having a faint odour, arises, which (halifns) was first noticed by Haller. In about four minutes a pellicle appears at the edge of the vessel, soon extending over the surface of tlie blood and down the sides of the vessel. It pervades the whole mass in about eight