712 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. admission of air into the joint chiefly determines the importance of any such lesion; and thus the pathological condition of these different wounds must be estimated by this consideration. The extent of the synovial membrane or the size of the joint should also be taken into account. Signs and Synvptoms.—The escape of synovia from the external aperture, or an exposure of the interior of the articulation, are the only pathognomonic or absolute signs of a wound into a joint. Synovial fluid is recognized by its translucent, viscid, albuminous chai^cter, resernbling raw white of egg; the interior of a joint presents the additional characters of glistening synovial membrane and cartilage, and the peculiar disposition of the articular surfaces. But these appearances should be discovered by inspection, or gentle introduction of the finger; an exploring instrument might penetrate the synovial membrane, and cause a wound not otherwise existing. Wound of an adjoining bursa would be attended with the discharge of a similar fluid, but examination of the interior wiU determine the diagnosis. Inflammation of the synovial capsule rapidly supervenes, presenting the usual appearance of synovitis, but distinguished by two pecu- liarities : the intense pain, and more acute constitutional disturbance. Suppuration also is almost inevitable, with hectic, and irreparable destruction of the articular surfaces constituting the joint; or pyaemia intervening at an early period, proves fatal. In two cases under my care in the Hospital, wounds of the knee-joint exposing the articulation, both terminated in this way. Treatment.—Preservation of the limb—without any operative inter- ference-—should always be attempted, in the first instance. But the probability of success will depend chiefly on the nature of the wound, and the extent of the synovial membrane or the size of the joint. A small incised wound or puncture, in a small joint, as one of the finger- joints, allows of preservation with great probability of success ; a large, open, and perhaps contused wound, in a large joint, as the knee, is almost surely fatal to limb and life. Among large joints, however, those of the upper extremity—the shoulder, elbow, and wrist—are, commonly, more favourably disposed than in the lower extremity— the hip, knee, and ankle. To save a joint, the wound must be at once closed, in order to solicit union by primary adhesion. For the closure of a small cut or puncture, collodion may be an eflScient application; for a larger wound, a pledget of lint or piece of isinglass adhesive plaster should be used; or I would try the dressing with carbolic acid paste on tinfoil, according to Mr. Lister's plan under similar circumstances. Sutures may be inserted, to bring the lips of the wound accurately together before applying any such dressing, but they should be entered only skin deep, not through the synovial mem- brane; and as matter is more apt to form, under the irritation of sutures, thus preventing primary union, and may perhaps find its way into the joint, I seldom have recourse to them. Cold evaporating lotions, or perhaps a few leeches, will aid in repressing inflammation. But the limb must be kept in a state of absolute rest by means of a splint, and in such position, therefore, as shall be most conducive to relaxation and ease. I thus succeeded in saving a knee-joint, which had been opened by the kick of a horse, and with no anchylosis resulting. Synovitis having proceeded to suppuration—the synovial cap'sule