THROMBUS. 669 experiments have, perhaps, shown that phlebitis is an inflammation ■which aflPects the walls, and not the contents, of a vein; for when the blood is excluded from the vessel, no exuda- tion is deposited within the cavity, yet the walls become thickened; when again the blood flows through the vein, no coagulation takes place, even although suppuration may have ensued in the wall of the vessel, and abscesses, like variolous pustules, bulge into its interior. The so-called adhesive, or clot- forming, phlebitis may therefore be regarded as simply thrombosis, without inflammation of the vein ; while, as one of the transforma- tions of a thrombus, the softening and dis- integration to which the blood-clot is liable, will give rise to the ordinary so-called s^tppiorative phlebitis. Causes of Thrombus. — Clot-formation ■within a vein,—when not occurring to a limited extent, as for the repair of wounds —seems to proceed from some blood-con- dition, in which there may be an increased proportion of fibrine in the blood, or certainly a hyper-tendency of the fibrine to coagulate. Then an intra-venous clot is apt to form, plugging the vessel, and extend into continuous veins. Usually, a venous thrombus extends up to the next larger-sized vein; there tailing off with a pointed extremity. But it may pass beyond the mouth of the branch into the trunk, enlarging and continuing in the shape of a thick cylinder, in the direction of the current of blood. (See Fig. 80.) This prolonged thrombus may be as big as the thumb, the original (autochthonous) thrombus not thicker than a knitting-needle; as when, from a lumbar vein, a plug extends into the vena cava. The morbid blood-conditions which may give rise to the production of thrombus depend apparently on some con- stitutional predisposition connected with the blood-elaborating pro- cesses, as in phthisis and cancer; in both of which diseases Bouilland states that thrombosis often occurs. But exciting causes bring this blood-condition into operation. Thus, a feeble circulation of the blood, whether referable to a weak heart or to weak, inelastic vessels, may be partly a predisposing, partly an exciting cause of clot-formation ; by favouring the coagulation of fibrine from the sluggish blood-streams in the veins. A more immediate causative influence may, however, be brought to bear, by pressure on the veins, as by a tumour, or the contraction of inflammatory deposit, as iu the cellular texture around a wound. On the other hand, the dilatation of veins may have a similar effect, as witnessed in the plugging of varicose veins, and varicose aneurism. Laceration of the vessels is another fertile cause of thrombus, as in the uterine veins after expulsion of the placenta from the uterus, or from other occasions * Middlesex Hosp. Miis., S. vi. 104. Thrombosis of the abdominal aorta and iliac arteries, showing firm cylinders of fibrine, plugging these vessels. Prom a woman, who died after amputation of the leg for gangrene. The cause of the thrombosis was pressure on the aorta, produced by a large uterine fibrous tumour.