383 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. Fig. 94.* Fig. 95. . of cure. Torsion is eiYectual by laceration of the two inner coats of the cut end of a bleeding artery, the outer coat remaining as a loose filamentous sheath, which, entangling the blood and forming a peg, is equivalent to an accidentally complete laceration. This procedure, originally noticed by Galen, was revived about 1828 ; in France, by Amussat, Velpeau, and Thierry; and in Germany, by Fricke. In this country, recently, torsion has been practised more generally, and it seems to be attracting increasing attention. Arteries of small size had long since, occasionally, been commanded by a pinch and twist with the forceps ; but large arteries, as the femoral, brachial, ulnar, and radial, have been effectually secured by torsion, in ampu- tations of the thigh, arm, and forearm, as previously practised by Amussat and Velpeau. Occlusion by Torsion has been specially investigated by Mr. Cooper Forster, whose observations are published in the Trans. Clin. Society, 1870. My own observations in one case, death taking place in thirty- six hours, were communicated to the same Society, in 1871. Occlusion consists in the following changes:—At the seat of torsion, the two inner coats of the artery are torn across, and reduplicated up the vessel, perhaps in the form of a complete funicular sheath, one-fifth of an inch in length; and at the upper or smaller opening of this reduplication, or funnel, a conical blood-clot forms, oc- cupying the bore and extend- ing up the vessel. (Fig. 94) The twisted condition of the artery, itself usually a per- sistent change, and the re- duplicated sheath of the two inner coats, above, acting as a valve, are quite sufficient provision against the recur- rence of haemorrhage at the time of operation and subse- quently ; but there is also the supervention of clot-forma- tion from this sheath, and extending further up the bore of the vessel. Different modes of torsion have been recommended, and are practised. The artery may be drawn out for about half an inch by one pair of serrated forceps, and its attachment seized by another pair of serrated forceps; the free portion is then twisted off by about a dozen turns of the former instrument, the method of Amussat. (Fig. 95.) Or, the end of the vessel may be simply twisted several times, without detaching it, as recommended by Velpeau and Fricke. This is the method I ordinarily practise, scarcely ever employing ligature to any * Occlusion of brachial artery after Torsion—in amputation—thirty-six hours. (Author.)