SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 604 and rarely, a dense caimilar ligament may be formed, and contain a fluid like synovia; the ends of bono have become smooth and polished, possibly eburnated, or covered with points—possibly thin plates—of cartilage, and a synovial membrane similar to that of a natural articu- lation. Thus, then, a complete false-joint is Fig. 202.* constructed. (Fig. 202.) The fractured ends, instead of being partially consolidated, as in the first condition, are freely movable; but they have not the useless mobility of total non-union, nor the irregular action allowed by a loose band or bands of ligament with intervals between them and which less entirely surround the ends of bone. They are retained in situ by a dense and complete capsule, and cannot be displaced unless subjected to con- siderable force. The limb is proportionately useful. Some Surgeons, such as CheUus and Hewson, supporting the assertion originally made by Boyer, have disputed the existence of this complete condition of false-joint. Several authentic cases are, however, recorded by Norris. Key saw an instance in the spinous process of a vertebra; Brodie, in a rib; Kuhnholtz, in the femur; Home, Cruveilhier, and Howship, in the humerus. Breschet readily produced complete false-joint, in his experiments on animals, in which it seems to be the most common form of union. Causes and Effects of Ummited Fracture.—The external causes of non-union after Fracture may be any circumstances which occasion motion of the fragments, beyond that degree which is compatible with the formation of callus and its ossific consolidation. Unsuitable reten- tive appliances will have this effect, or their unsuitable application ; so also, handling the part daily or even more than occasionally, during the process of repair. Hence the practice sometimes witnessed, of fre- quently readjusting the limb, is as obnoxious as that which formerly prevailed, of close imprisonment and unalterably fixed position. In- ternal causes comprise—muscular action separating the fragments and thereby preventing union, as in fracture of the patella, and in that of the olecranon; or the interposition of any foreign body, whereby union may be intercepted. A portion of muscle, tendon, or a clot of blood intervening, is thus obstructive; of which two instances, by a piece of muscle, were seen by Mr. S. Cooper. A fractured clavicle, however, has been known to unite by two pieces of bone which enclosed an ossified subclavius muscle. (Berard.) A piece of dead bone, in another case, retarded the process of repair for eight months; when the sequestrum being removed, union ensued in three or four weeks. (Schmucker.) Other local internal causes—not acting mechanically as impediments to nnion—pertain to the function of nutrition, at the seat of fracture. They are, chiefly, a deficient supply of blood to one of the fragments, as to the head of the femur, or of the humerus, in intra-capsular fracture of either of these bones; or both fragments may be ill-nourished, as after the main artery of a limb has been ligatured; any obstruction to the circulation, producing local ana;mia, as by * False-joint in the tibia. King's Coll. Hosp. Mus., 1181.