INFLAMMATION. 45 properties which, had long since been known. Thus, then, the capillary vessels and the blood-corpuscles, white and red, are apparently alike endowed with the power of amoeboid activity ; and thence the emigra- tion of the corpuscles in the process of Inflammation. In tracing the process of Inflammation, it is difficult to determine the order of succession in the changes which essentially constitute this process. The question of priority, therefore, on the part of the textures or blood, is doubtful. "Whether an increased textural productiveness, and consequent demand for nutritive material, induces an extra flow of arterial blood towards this focus of accelerated nutrition; or whether a determination of blood solicits the formative power of the textures to more active, albeit abortive operation ? The latter view, originally advocated by John Hunter, long held undisputed acknowledgment in the schools and in medical literature; before the textures were discovered, so to speak, by Bichat, and before the grand and fertile theory of cell-development introduced by Schwann and Schleiden. But the independent vitality of the textures in relation to the blood, a physiological doctrine probably entertained by Haller, was subsequently extended to pathology by Hebrenstreit, Burdach, Alison, and others; while, in respect to Inflammation especially, this doctrine is strenuously advocated with great originality of argument by Virchow, and exclusively adopted by Mr. Simon and other patholo- gists in recent works. For the discussion of any other doubtful points respecting the intimate nature of Inflammation, and more particularly as investigated in animals, the reader is referred to abundant sources of interesting information in the writings of Wilson Philips, Kaltenbrunner, Gerber, Gendrin, Miiller, Lebert, Alison, Henle, Macartney, Addison, Gulliver, Wharton Jones, C. J. B. Williams, Bennett, Paget, Lister, Virchow, Billroth, Cohnheim, Strieker, Simon, and Burdon Sanderson. Signs.—The local signs of inflammation—as enumerated from time immemorial—are redness, heat, swelling, and pain; the first three being objective phenomena, pain a subjective symptom; and there is also some functional disturbance or loss of functional power in the part affected. (1.) Redness is a sign of inflammation, owing to the determination of arterial blood; but the development of this sign will be proportionate to the number of capillary vessels pervading the part, and the extra flow of blood through them. The colour, a florid hue, varies according to the arterial or venous character of the blood, and as shaded by any intervening texture; or it may be entirely unseen throtigh the depth of integument concealing the engorged vessels. Various shades of redness are met with in different inflammations: a bright crimson hue in acute inflammation; a darker or purple tint in the chronic form; a damask redness in erysipelas, or a brownish lividity in phlegmonous erysipelas; a yellow redness when associated with jaundice; a copper hue in syphilitic inflammation; a purplish lividity, deepening into black, whenever inflammation becomes gan- grenous. The vascular engorgement, or hyperaemia, presents different shapes, according to the peculiar anatomical arrangements of the capillaries in the texture or part. Hence punctiform, stellate, arbo- rescent, maculiforra, or spotted, and uniform blush-redness, are ireqaently recognized, as in the skin and mucous membranes which