352 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. wound gave rise immediately to pain in tlie course of tlic median nerve; and tlie next day, the forearm was fixed by muscular contrac- tion, at a riglit-angle with, the arm. After a few days violent cpasms affected the muscles of the hand and forearm, attended with constant vomiting. At length, the other limbs were thrown into spasmodic movements, so tliat the patient could neither walk nor stand. The diaphragm was sometimes affected, so as almost to threaten suffocation. Occasionally, lock-jaw took place, or the patient lay in a state of opisthotonos, as if tetanus were fully developed. A violent pain in the head set in from time to time, and this pain was described as having the same character as that of the pricked finger. These symptoms continued, in various alternations of predominance, until ■ultimately the patient recovered. Wry-nech sometimes arises from hysteric contraction of the stemo- mastoid muscle. This state has misled surgeons of experience in not a few cases. But the diagnosis may be determined by the absence of any thickening of the fixed and rigid muscles, as would be produced by local disease or injury, nor is there the history of any sprain or crick of the neck; on the other hand, the concurrence of various symptoms of Hysteria may present a picture which those who have seen much of this protean disease will hardly fail to recognize. Contractions of the fingers are occasionally met with, depending on hysteric affection of the flexor muscles; but looking like the prominent ridges in the palm, and the claw-like closure of the fingers, resulting from teno-synovitis, or from contraction of the processes of the palmar fascia3. This state may continne for an indefinite period, and thus more nearly resemble the permanent contraction caused by disease. But the relaxing influence of chloroform will at once dispel the illusion ; and even more readily than in other cases of functional muscular con- traction, where the deformity is less consjjicuons than in club-hand. Various forms of club-foot may also depend on .similar muscular affections of an hysteric character. A typical and suggestive case of this kind is related by the late Mr. Skey; and that the story shall not lose its effect in the telling, I will narrate the case in his own words, for what our American cousins would call "a cantion." "A young lady, sixteen years of age, had been suffering, for eight months, fi-om inversion of the left foot, which was so twisted as to bring the point of the foot to the opposite ankle,—in fact, at nearly a right-angle with the foot of the opposite side, an extreme case of talipes-varus. Her family consulted a surgeon of much experience in the treatment of distortions, and of orthopoedic notoriety. The case was considered as an example of an ordinary distortion, and the foot was placed in a very elaborately made foot-splint, by the force of which it was made to approach a parallel relation to the opposite foot; but it was an ap- proach only, for no mechanism could retain it in a perfect position, the toes yet in some degree pointing inwards. Months elapsed and the disease continued unchanged. A second orthopcsdic authority was then consulted in conjunction with the first, and as no new light was thrown on the disease by the combined opinions of the two, the same principle of treatment was recommended to be continued, and the mechanism was yet somewhat more elaborated. And thus the eight months of this young lady's life passed away, during which no con- stitutional treatment of any kind was resorted to, and loss of exercise,