SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. 830 Fig. 443. muscles, represents a principle of treatment, applicable to a large class of conditions, for the cure or correction of deformities depending ou muscular contractions. Thilenius, of Frankfort, divided the tendo- Achillis about 1789, followed by Sartorious in 1806, and Michaelis in 1809; bat Delpech (1816) originated subcutaneous tenotomy as a method of treatment, by laying down the rules * essential to the per- formance of this operation, and Stromeyer brought the operation into practice in 1831 ; followed by Little and other Surgeons, who have established its remedial efficacy in various branches of surgical practice —constituting Orthopaedic Surgery. Division of the sterno-mastoid mvscle, subcutaneously.—This pro- cedure affords more or less complete relief of tension, when wry-neck deformity depends on contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle. In congenital wry-neck tenotomy is most successful ; in spasmodic wry- neck less so ; while in the paralytic form, and that arising from disease of the cervical vertebras, this operation will be unnecessary or useless. The muscle should be divided close above the clavicle, the situation of least risk to subjacent parts. By introducing a narrow- bladed tenotome just above the sternum, the sternal attachment of the muscle is divided; and then the clavicular attach- ment, by repuncturing the integument in that situation. This precaution is safer than division of the muscle by one incision; as the two portions are not on the same plane, and passage of the knife to a suflBcient depth for that purpose wonld be dangerous. Com- plete division is accompanied by a very sensible crack, and some alteration in the attitude of the head. Immediately after operation. Dr. Little found the difference in length between the affected and sound muscle reduced more than one-half. The advantage gained by this opera- tion must be followed up by mechanical means, to maintain and gradually com- plete the readjustment of the head in position; otherwise, the divided portions of muscle reunite, and the deformity returns. An apparatus represented by Mr. Bigg (Fig. 443) best answers this purpose, by counteracting any ten- dency of the head downwards, sideways, and outwards, and thereby restoring it to its vertical position, and the chin to the middle line. Dr. Little highly commends cautious manipulation daily, as well as the use of a retentive apparatus. This after-treatment must be continued for a period varying from one to three or six months, when permanent cures have been accomplished. If an hysterical nffcction, wry-neck should be submitted to the * "De I'Orthomorphie," tome ii. p. 330. 1S28.