GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 238 sarily perilous. Bateman states that he witnessed three instances in which persons were carried off, while affected with purpura, by hemorrhage into the lungs. Watson saw two post-mortem examina- tions, in both of which a considerable quantity of blood was found spread over the surface of the brain, between its membranes; and in one of these cases blood was extravasated also into the cerebral substance, with extensive laceration. Blood-patholocjy.—Scurvy and Purpura are plainly blood-diseases. The hlood itself spontaneously exudes, and appears as a bruise, yet without any bruising force having been applied. This hasmorrhage and ecchymosis takes place in many textures, and visits one after another. The whole organism, in fact, becomes leaky, yet without the blood- vessels themselves being in any diseased state. Scurvy.—To what morbid condition of the blood must scorbutic haemorrhage be ascribed ? The blood has undergone remarkable and significant changes of colour; from the florid red of health, it has assumed a dark brown or green tint; it appears, also, only half coagulated, the supernatant serum being of a livid colour. Again, the red corpuscles are observed by Drs. Ritchie and Buchanan to have become irregular in their outline, their discs more flattened, and more disposed to cohere together and aggregate into large insulated masses, than the corpuscles of healthy blood. These peculiar appearances are denied by other observers, who regard them either as inconstant or altogether absent. Dr. Garrod, for instance, affirms that recent ex- aminations have shown the blood not to be in a dissolved state, as was formerly supposed, but that the globules are normal in appearance, the clot firm and frequently buffed and cupped. • The balance of evidence, however, preponderates in favour of the peculiar colour and fluidity of the blood, and the collapse of the red corpuscles. The chemical constitution of scorbutic blood is doubtful. In the present state of Chemical Pathology, according to one authority, potash is deficient. Dr. Garrod's analyses led him to con- clude that the proportion of this alkali is reduced. Other authorities— Becquerel and Rodier—find the proportion of soda increased in scoi'butic blood, and that oi fibrin diminished. Treatment.—Scurvy.—The preventive and curative treatment of this disease is alike dietetic. It is an undonbted fact that certain articles of diet possess anti- scorbutic properties. Lemon-juice is the grand anti-scorbutic, whereby thousands of persons have been rescued, who otherwise would inevitably have perished from scurvy. 1457 cases of scurvy were sent to Haslar Hospital in the year 1780. Subsequently, in 1795, lemon-juice was provided by order of the Admiralty, through the representations of Sir Gilbert Blane and Dr. Blair. Then only one case of scurvy appears in the hospital returns for 1806; and for 1807, one. Potatoes, whether in a raw state or cooked, are equally anti-scorbutic. Many other articles of diet, more or less in use, are enumerated by Dr. W. Bndd, and their anti-scorbutic properties compared. So far, the prevention of scurvy is practicable. But this kind of knowledge is ew^mcaZ; we are ignorant (as Dr. Budd justly remarks) of the essential element common to the juices of anti-scorbutic plants, and in which their efficacy resides. Therefore,