561 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Causes.—The inelastic, and contracted or obliterated state of the arteries, is frequently a lyredisijosing condition only, althongli maintain- ing the gangrene when established. Some slight injury to the foot— an abrasion, scratch, or wound—is commonly the immediate cause, the gangrene being so far traiomatic. Sir B. Brodie offers a reasonable explanation. Daring inflammation, an increased supply of arterial blood is reqiiired, and the arterial trunks leading to the inflamed part become dilated so as to permit this extra quantity; but, when these vessels are ossified, they lose their dilatability and power of accom- modation, the greater supply of blood demanded by inflammation is withheld, and the part perishes. Age is certainly a predisposing cause, in virtue of the degenerative changes which the arteries, in common with other textures and organs, undergo as life advances. Hence, ossific degeneration of the arteries is liable to occur in persons past the middle period of life, say fifty years of age; those who are old in years, or in those who are prematurely old for their years. Either sex is liable to this degenerative change, though perhaps not equally so. The duration of senile gangrene is uncertain. It may continue for a few weeks or months, even a year, and terminate fatally. Or, if limited to a toe or two, the part may be detached naturally, by the formation of a line of demarcation and ulcerative severation, or be removed surgically ; and in either case the patient recover. Treatment.—Preventive measures—in those who have had, from time to time, premonitory symptoms—will consist in the avoidance of the circumstances which, disturbing the circulation, are the immediate causes of senile gangrene. Hence, attention to rest, posture, and uniform warmth of the legs by clothing must always be primarily important; for this gangrene commences usually after a walk, long standing, or exposure to cold. Then again, the Surgeon should avoid the slightest operation, even the laying open of a sinus on the foot, if the patient has been subject to premonitory symptoms. Sir B. Brodie relates a case in his early practice, where such an operation—trifling in itself—gave rise to inflammation, gangrene of the whole foot on the following day; and in two days more death ensued. The treatment of senile gangrene is both local and constitutional. The local indication is this: to solicit the formation of a line of demar- cation or limitation of the gangrene, and thus also restrict the extent to which it might otherwise have spread. Consequently, means must be taken to maintain the temperature of the foot or feet, in order to difliuse the local circulation and sustain the vitality of the part; a con- dition necessary for nature to declare the line of severation between the living and dead portions. Cotton wadding or carded wool, in the form of a padding, deeply enveloping the limb, answers most effectually. This appliance was originally used by Mr. Vance, of Grreenwich Hospital. The casement may be lightly retained in a silk handkerchief, sewn up. It need not be reapplied for some days; the gangrenous part being previously covered with lint soaked in chlorinated, carbolic, or other antiseptic lotion; or an ointment, which is less apt to dry, may be used, consisting of resin ointment with creosote. During the process of separation, reparative closure of the vessels, by adhesive inflamma- tion, should be promoted by poulticing or an epithem of spongio-piline soaked in warm water. When the soft textures are detached, the bones may be sawn through, and the otherwise natural amputation 2 0