WOUNDS OF VEINS. 887 entrance of air, witli the appearance of bubbles about tbe wound in the vein. The constitutional elfects are equally remarkable; the patient is suddenly seized with great oppression in breathing, and extreme faintness, convulsive struggling, and a horrible feeling of terror and impending danger, inducing him to exclaim that he is dying. A churning noise is heard in the heart, synchronous vfith the ventricular systole; and the hand applied to the chest, perceives a peculiar bub- bling, thrilling, rasping sensation, produced by the air and blood being whipped together within the ventricle. The heart's action becomes extremely feeble, and the pulse almost imperceptible. When only a small quantity of air has entered the circulation, the symptoms may pass off and the patient rally. A larger admission of air speedily causes death, during the convulsive struggling, or without convulsions, as if by simple syncope. The period at which death occurs varies, from a few moments or minutes, to several hours. When the patient sur- vives, some hours elapse usually before consciousness and strength are restored. In some cases, after recovery from the immediate effects of the accident, death has ensued from pneumonia. The mode of death seems to be essentially asphyxia, by the impaction of air-bubbles in the capillaries of the lungs, mechanically obstructing the pulmonary circulation; thence arresting the systemic circulation, and the supply of arterial blood to the brain, followed by syncope. But the heart's action continues, after respiration has ceased; and at last failing from want of its necessary stimulus, arterial blood, this organ is the ultimmn moriens. Cause.—Air is liable to enter the veins only during each act of in- : spiration; and in consequence of a tendency to the formation of a vacuum within the thorax, more particularly in the pericardium, during in- ; spiration. Thence a sucking action, or " venous inspiration," in the ■ veins within and near the thoracic cavity; extending to where the 1 coats of the veins collapse. This area is limited to that part of the ; root of the neck and axilla where the venous flux and reflux of blood are perceptible, and the space in which it occurs has been called ■ " the dangerous region." Various circumstances favour the admission of air into an open ^ vein:—1. The site of the wounded vein being in the dangerous region. ; 2. Canalization of a vein; owing to its coats having become thickened \ by morbid deposit, or adherent to condensed, consolidated surround- i ing textures, or by the spasmodic contraction of muscles; either of t these three conditions having the effect of converting a vein into a ■ rigid, uucollapsing tube. 3. Traction on the vein. 4. A stretched position of the part operated on. 6. The form of the wound. 6. The ji position of the vein in the wound ; a vein cut in the corner of a wound b being apt to gape, as Dupuytren's case demonstrated. 7. Deep in- spiration. I" Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in making pressure on the cardiac side of the wound, during operation in dangerous localities; and keeping the part in a relaxed position, thus to prevent the veins being drawn open. Any vein of considerable size, and especially in which the venous pulse is perceptible, should be avoided as much as pos- sible. Feeble inspiration is desirable, and this is best secured by the influence of chloroform; tightly bandaging the chest to prevent deep inspiration, as some have recommended, is a perilous precaution.