SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 680 of any known remedial agents. The ambiguous symptoms of diffused pain in a bone, with perhaps some oedematous swelling, will therefore warrant the Surgeon in ascertaining the state of the periosteum, to determine the diagnosis. Under these circumstances, an early, free incision should bo made down to the bone. If the periosteum is discovered to be separating, without any notable effusion between it and the bone, it will be justifiable to treiildne the bone, with the view of giving exit to any matter which may have formed in the deeper cancellated structure. Excision of the affected portion of bone, or amputation of the limb, must be had recourse to, as more extreme measures. (2.) Diffuse Periostitis.—This diseased condition is of rather frequent occurrence; but it has hitherto been less noticed in surgical works than its importance demands. Diffuse Periostitis—accord- ing to Mr. Holmes' observations—appears to consist in the partial separation of the periosteum from the bone ; by effusion of lymph or other products on the surface of the latter. Copious suppuration soon spreads along the bone, detaching the periosteum, often from one end of the bone to the other. (Fig. 295.) At an early period, neither the periosteum nor the surface of the bone is visibly inflamed. The latter, indeed, may look white and bloodless, or sometimes slightly worm-eaten; it yields, on pres- sure, large drops of blood from the periosteal vessels passing into it, and its superficial layers are more readily separable from the deeper osseous texture, than in health. Necrosis is soon established, the whole diaphysis of the bone usually perishing ; leaving the articular ends unaffected, and therefore not involving the neighbouring joint. Sometimes it does not escape. The long bones are more often affected than the flat or irregular bones ; and, in the great majority of cases, the femur or the tibia. Signs.—Arising insidiously, an oedematous, painful swelling is presented—diffuse cellular inflammation—resembling acute rheu- matism. But, suppuration soon following, the diagnosis is at once determined. The causes would seem to be some injury to the bone, occurring, however, in a scrofulous or weakly person. The disease is said to be met with more commonly about the age of puberty, and in boys more often than in girls. It rapidly runs its course; pyaemia frequently supervenes and proves fatal; or the matter burrowing among the muscles, forms numerous fistulous openings, exposing necrosed bone. The dead portion is detached much sooner, apparently, than in ordinary necrosis; and reparation also seems to be equally active. Treatment.—Early and free incisions are here, also, primarily important. During the process of cicatrization, injections of very dilute hydrochloric acid may be used, as highly recommended by Chassaignac, to cleanse the suppurating cavity and hasten exfoliation * St. George's Hosp. Mus. Diffuse periostitis of the Tibia, Avith necrosis and detachment of the lower epiphysis.