181 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. (d.) Lastly, the out-growing form of this disease may be a narrow- stemmed, and possibly pendulous, growth from the skin. These and other shapes of superficial epithelial cancer resemble somewhat the appearances presented, by warty and condylomatous growths; but they differ essentially in respect of their minute struc- ture ;—being infiltrations of the skin and papillas with epithelial cancer-cells ; whereas the structui-e of warty growths remains healthy, however strange may be the appearance they assume. (2.) Deep-seated epithelial cancer is generally (a) an advanced stage of the superficial; for by progressive infiltration, the subcutaneous or sub-inucous tissues are invaded; (b) but this variety of the disease may occur primarily, although comparatively rarely. " Thus," ob- serves Paget, " the first formation of epithelial cancer may be in masses of circumscribed infiltration of the tissues, beneath healthy skin or mucous membrane. This condition is more frequent in the epithelial cancers that form, as recurrences of the disease, near the seats of former operations, or as secondary deposits about the borders of primary superficial growths." Situation.—Epithelial cancer selects either the skin or subcutaneous texture; or the mucous membrane ; and of these textures the portions most liable are ranged by Paget in the following scale of frequency. Fii'st, its chosen seat is the lower lip, at or near the junction of the skin and mucous membrane ; then the prepuce (glans, Rokitansky), scroium of chimney-sweeps; the nymphse, the tongue; occasionally in very many parts; as at the anus, interior of the cheek, upper lip, mucous mem- brane of the palate, larynx (trachea, Rokitansky), pharynx and "cardia;" neck and orifice of the uterus (stomach, Rokitansky), rectum, and urinary bladder; skin of the perineum, of the extemities ; the face, head, and various parts of the trunk. In yet more rare instances, as a primary disease, it occurs in other than integumental parts ; as in the inguinal lymphatic glands, in bones, in tissues forming the basis or walls of old ulcers. Rokitansky has met with epithelial cancer only once in a parenchyma, namely, in the liver, and then encysted in a capsule of fibro-cellullar tissue. By extension from its original seat, this growth may involve many deeper textures ; fascite, muscle, bones ; and as a secondary disease it may, but very rarely, supervene in internal organs—the lungs, liver, heart, spleen, or kidneys. ^ Epithelial cancer, as a primary disease, is usually solitary. Occa- sionally, two or more co-exist, and even in the same part, as on the prepuce and glans. Eventually, secondary epithelial cancer-growths form in the tissues surrounding the primary and parent growth. Origin.—Predisposition to the production of epithehal cancer in- creases as age advances, the proportionate liability rising with each decennial period. This becomes more apparent when compared with the number of persons living at each successive period; so that if the frequency of occurrence between 20 and 30 years be represented by 12, that between 40 and 50 years is equal to 100. Billroth estimates the period of greatest liability to be from the fortieth to the sixtieth year, rarely later; but sometimes the disease appears in childhood. With regard to the part affected. Sir J. Paget believes that the mean age of occurrence is lowest in the sexual organs, and highest in the integu- ments of the head, face, eyelids, and upper extremities. Males are more often attacked than females ; in 105 cases affecting parts common