17 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. gangrene supervene, then we observe the gradual loss of all the physical properties peculiar to each living tissue, as severally they are consio"ned to the uncontrolled dominion of chemical forces. Observe the skin darkened or black, and also the intermediate tints of tissues between it and bone, whitened and rou^gh. Moreover, the tissues resicn their consistence and elasticity as they imperceptibly lose their organization and return to a liquid form. I would not locate these changes, because with unimportant differences they may occur in every region with which the operative surgeon is concerned. If we review the history of other products not due to inflammation, we observe them disturbing the relation of parts surrounding their locality, and by pressure gradually obstructing and even obliterating hollow organs in their vicinity. The clinical history of all tumours or swellings exemplifies these mechanical results; but growths more especially, by their gradual and unlimited enlargement, produce such displacements. This circumstance chiefly determines the necessity for extirpating tumours which are otherwise harmless in their local and constitutional consequences. I would not allow such benign growths, as fatty or fibrous tumours, to remain too long imbedded; for, although the general health may continue uninfluenced thereby, they may yet by their gradual enlargement so far encroach on adjacent and important parts as eventually to render their own removal difficult, if not impracticable. This indication more especially refers to tumours situated in regions where vital structures are crowded together. Such are the face and neck, where the presence of large vessels, nerves, etc., complicates the removal of tumours. Under these circumstances I have removed more than one tumour; which, although of innocent tendency, would soon have passed beyond the ramus of the jaw posteriorly, and had already encroached on the cavity of the mouth. This condition would suggest the early extirpation of tumours, benign in themselves, when lodged in the sides of other cavities ; as, for example, the abdomen and joints. Thus placed, they might by pressure and inward progress eventually endanger life, if their removal were attempted at a later period. Next, inspect certain regions of the body, in which the relation of their pathology to surgical operations being more special is even more conspicuous. Observe aneurisms,—say one of the axillary artery. The mere ; anatomist would suppose that the subclavian artery in the outer ■ third of its course would offer no special obstacles to its easy ' deligation. On the dead subject but few exist. The operator I observes the depression over the vessel, in the situation supposed, I above the clavicle. He makes his incision along that bone; he very t Boon recognizes the subclavian vein below, branches of the brachial I plexus above; and the shoulder being now depressed, he at once I passes a ligature around the arteiy. But with the shoulder elevated ' by an axillary aneurism, and the artery above having a corre- ( spending depth, the vein turgid from obstructed return of blood, I and more so under chloroform, the sterno-mastoid and omo-hyoid I imiscles swollen, with perhaps also a portion of the trapezius; those I modifying conditions of disease and life combined, all couspiro to render this operation perhaps the most difficult in surgery. They tned the skill of a Listen and a Dupuytren; the former of whom at C