847 DEFORMITIES OF LEG. in children over five years of age, and in adults ; but in infa,nts it is better to use the apparatus known as a varus-splint, consisting of a metal trough for the calf, with an outer steel extending to the thigh, having a free joint at the knee : at the foot there is a metal sole-plate, movable by a single cog-wheel placed at the heel. When the Scarpa's shoe is used, two cog-wheels should be placed opposite the ankle-joint, on the inner side of the_ leg, as shown m Fig. 476, as by this arrangement we have a greatly increased power of uplifting the outer margin of the foot, whilst the leg is drawn by the straps to the steel upright on the inner side. This stage will usually occupy from six to eight weeks, except in severe cases in adults. The cases of talipes varus and equino-varus in which the treatment should be divided into three stages are those in which there is a marked degree of contraction of the plantar fascia, causing an increased pro- minence of the arch of the foot, by a movement of flexion and rotation inwards of the anterior portion of the foot, from the transverse tarsal joint. In these cases the head of the astragalus projects, sometimes conspicuously, on the instep, as this bone is partially extruded from the ankle-joint by contraction of the Achilles tendon behind; and the navicular bone is drawn downwards anteriorly, by contraction of the plantar fascia and muscles traversing the sole of the foot. When division of the treatment into three stages is thus indicated by a severe degree of contraction in the sole of the foot, the object of Vae first stage will be to overcome all inversion of the foot, and reduce the varus, or equino-varns, into simple equimis. The olject of the second stage will be to overcome the contraction in the sole of the foot, which generally necessitates a free division of the plantar fascia; and during the subsequent mechanical treatment, whilst the arch of the foot is being expanded by uplifting the metatarsal bones, the contrac- tion of the Achilles tendon is of the utmost assistance, as it holds the OS calcis rigidly fixed, and affords a point of resistance to the uplifting force exerted against the anterior portion of the foot. This stage must be fully completed before the third stage is com- menced, and will usually occupy a month in children, and from three to four months in adults. No greater mistake in treatment can be committed than to commence the third stage, the object of which is to cure the talipes equinus, by division of the tendo-Achillis before the second stage is completed, however long it may occupy. If any con- traction in the arch of the foot remains when the Achilles tendon is divided, it cannot afterwards be corrected, and this defect will remain through life, in many cases leading to a relapse of the deformity. The form of Scarpa's shoe best adapted to the treatment of these cases of equino-varus, and many cases of relapsed varus, is the modifi- cation of late years adopted by Mr. Wm. Adams, and represented in Figs. 476 and 477, in which the sole-plate is divided into two por- tions by a joint corresponding to the transverse tarsal joint, and the anterior portion can be moved in various directions by three rack-and- pinion movements in the sole-plate, as shown in Fig. 477 ; the move- ment of inversion and eversion is regulated at A, that of flexion and extension at B, and rotation at c, so that the anterior portion of the sole-plate D can be moved in any of these directions, the mechanical thus corresponding to the anatomical centres of motion in the production of the deformity. Contractions of the Toes are not uncommon, and may be either