163 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. of the urinary bladder, of the pancreas, and of the spleen ; in each of ■which organs I have seen, as already described, masses of colloid. In the remarkable case referred to, other organs were similarly affected: the stomach, intestinal canal, uterus, ovaries, and rectum. This scale does not specify the particular species of cancer, in each of the different tissues and organs named; yet their relative liabilities in this respect is a matter of great practical importance, considering the unequal degrees of "malignancy" evinced by the several species of this growth. (1.) Encephaloid cancer—^the most malignant species—selects first, in order of frequency, the testicle; next, the hones and particularly the femur; the intermuscular cellular texture of the limbs; the eyeball or orbit; the breast; the walls of the chest, or abdomen; the lym- phatics. Moreover, encephaloid " occurs in organs in which no other cancer, least of all scirrhous, ever occurs,—as in the liver, the kidneys, the lungs, the testicle, the lymphatic glands." (Rokitansky.) Encephaloid cancer is not usually solitary. It commonly co-exists in many textures and organs. Melanotic cancer—mostly a variety of encephaloid, by pigmentary degeneration of its cells, and the most common of all melanotic tumours —is prone to grow first, in or beneath pigmentary moles (Paget) ; or selects first the liver (Rokitansky) ; but it may occur " in the brain and about the nerves; at the eyeball, in the lungs, thyroid gland, liver, spleen, kidneys, bones, lymphatic glands, ovaries, in and beneath the intestinal mucous membrane, between the mesenteric layers, in the skin and subcutaneous areolar texture, upon serous membranes, in the dura mater, upon and within the heart." This variety of cancer occurs as secondary formations, in very many textures and organs, simultaneously. Villous cancer—another variety of encephaloid—is produced, accord- ing to B.okitansky, exchisively upon membranes ; more especially upon mucous membranes, and most of all that of the male urinary bladder, near the opening of either ureter; next to this the mucous membrane of the stomach, and in particular the pyloric portion. It has been observed suspended by a pedicle from the internal membrane of the rectum, and even from that of the gall bladder. Secondly, it is very . apt to grow extensively from the internal wall of ovarian cysts—cysto- ■ carcinoma—where it is recognised as villous cancer by its copious : accompaniment of medullary sap. In these cases, it is often concurrent with cancerous infiltration of the lymphatic glands about the lumbar vei-tebrae, and with peritoneal cancer—representing villous cancer upon i a serous membrane. It has been observed also upon the dura mater; • occasionally upon the general integument ; and perhaps in bone. Lastly, it occurs in parenchymatous organs. (2.) Scirrhous cancer selects first the breast in the proportion of 95 1 per cent. (Paget.) Next in order of frequency, the stomach; perhaps still more frequently, in this organ (Rokitansky) ; then, according to ■ the last-named authority, the colon in its sub-mucous cellular tissue; •more rarely in the vaginal portion of the uterus; upon serous mem- : branes, and in the sub-serous areolar tissue. Again, as an expansive degeneration of the omentum, and of the mesentery; in the salivary -glands; in the fibrous tissue of the bronchi. In several of these as < well as in other structures,—^for example, the ovaries and the brain,