TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 183 j it softens, suppm'ates, and discharges its contents through an ulcerated j opening, or a long rent; leaving a cavity which speedily assumes the ! characters of an ulcer, and extends peripherally. ] In a third series of cases, and, perhaps, especially in secondary for- mations, and in those under the scars of old injuries, the cancer protrudes through a sharply bounded ulcer in the sound integument or scar, growing exuberantly, with a soft shreddy surface, like a medullary j cancer, or with a firmer, warty, or fungous mass of granulations. - ; Dissimilar as are the earliest aspects of ulceration in both forms • of epithelial cancer—out-growing and deep—they gradually assume a ' uniformity of appearance which is very characteristic. (3). Complete Ulcer.—An excavated sore, of a round or oval shape, i presenting a roughly granular surface, which has a brick-dust red * colour, and oozes a stale-smelling discharge. This surface bleeds easily, although not freely. The textures surrounding its base and borders become indurated and rigid, as they progressively become more and more infiltrated with cancer-cells. The ulcer thus acquires a remai'k- I able degree of immobility, and its margin protrudes in the shape of a ' thick everted ridge, well defining the boundary of the ulcer. Infil- tration increasing, the marginal ridge forms an irregular nodular belt, . which overhangs the base of the ulcer, and gives an undermined ap- j pearance to its everted borders. If the papillce of the surrounding skin are more particularly the seat of cancerous infiltration, then a warty j rather than a nodular belt springs up around the ulcer. With all I these signs of progressive infiltration, followed by ulceration, the work | of destruction is not stayed below the base of the already excavated sore. It spreads deeper and deeper, sparing no texture, not even large arteries, which hold out against the invasion of most other forms of ulceration, if indeed they do not escape altogether. But arteries of the | first magnitude yield to the unsparing ravages of epithelial cancer. 1 Pain, varying in kind and intensity, such as burning or neuralgic pain, attends the course of ulceration. The lymphatic glands are in- fected at an early or later period, according to the rapidity of the disease; and involving the proximate glands, which become enlarged and somewhat indurated, the disease extends to other glands, yet not '. so far as in other species of cancer. Thus, when the lip is the primary seat of disease, the cervical glands are secondarily aifected ; while the lumbar glands show the extension of disease from the penis or scrotum. Internal organs are far more rarely infected than from any other species of cancer. Cachexia is neither early nor well-marked; nor in any way peculiar. The average duration of life is from two years to \ two and a half; although life is not unfrequently prolonged to three I or four years, or to a more distant period,—unlike the usual course of other cancers. Here, also, the part aifected will regulate the prog- ! nosis. Epithelial cancer in the limbs generally runs its course to a | fatal termination more slowly than when the lower lip or the tongue j is the primary seat of disease. The age of the patient, at the com- j mencement of the growth, scarcely influences the duration of life. I Affinities to Cancer.—There are good and sufficient reasons for re- garding this disease as a variety of Cancer. Its infiltrating character as a growth, is the essential guarantee of identity; while its indis- criminate invasion of all textures, its ulcerative tendency, and unsparing destructiveness, corroborate the malignant nature of this growth. Then