678 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. ■whether on account of the extent and ill-defined nature of the mass, or the situation in which it may be placed; as occupying one or both sides of the neck, or the armpit and side of the chest. Sometimes the tumours may be shelled out or enucleated with the fingers; in other cases, where the mass is conglomerate and softened, a consider- able dissection will hardly succeed in extirpating the whole. Here, also, the growths are apt to return ; and thus even the apparent success of the operation may ultimately be defeated. BONES. CHAPTER XXXI. FRACTURE. Fig. 185.* Fracture.—Structural Conditions.—Fracture is a solution of continuity of the osseous texture, suddenly produced, and by some degree of external violence, or j)erhaps muscular action; the broken ends of bone being more or less contused or lacerated by the act of breaking. Fractures differ essentially in regard to the mode of their reparation, according as they are unaccompanied, or attended, by an open wound communicating with the fracture; the one being termed Simple, the other Compound. Complicated Fracture is also a recognized distinction; when the injury to the bone is accompanied with injury to other parts, as important blood-vessels or nerves, an internal organ, or extends into a joint, or is accompanied with dislocation. But any such additional injury is not an essential condition,'. as pertaining to the pathology of Fi'acture. In its extent, a fracture generally passes com- pletely through the bone—complete fracture; oc- casionally, it is limited to part only of the whole thickness of a bone—incomplete or, as it is some- times aptly termed, " green-stick " fracture. (Fig. 185.) In direction, the line of fracture may be transverse, ohlique (a), or longittidinal {b), as com- pared with the axis of a long bone. (Fig. 186.) If there be more than two, perhaps several, fragments, the fracture is comminuted. Impacted fracture is that * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1,124. Incomplete fracture of the right tibia, in a man aged thirty-six years. Death from pyajmia, consequent on abscess in the joint, from other injuries. Another almost unique case of green-stick fracture may be here mentioned. An incomplete fracture of the clavicle ; the bone being broken on one side, and bent on the other, in its outer curve. This injury occurred in the person of a boy who, in consequence of severe injury to the brain, died thirty hours after tue accident. (St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 75. B. C. Brodie.) Yet another incomplete fracture of the clavicle (1,7G) -was found in the body ot a