LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 641 recognized beneath. Raising this fascia with the forceps, at its thinnest and loosest part, near where the cord passes, an aperture is made, nsing the knife laterally ; the finger should then be gently introduced between the fascia and peritoneum, and the former divided to the full extent of the external wound. The peritoneum, thus exposed, can then be detached with the fingers from its loose cellular connection in the iliac fossa, and drawn to the middle line, without damaging this membrane. Retractors are of use in retaining it there, or the fingers of an assistant may be preferable. The fawn-coloured artery is seen on the inner border of the psoas muscle, crossed generally by the white tape-like ureter above ; unless the peritoneum be raised to a higher point, when the ureter, adhering to that membrane, will be raised with it. Lower down, the artery is crossed obliquely inwards by the spermatic vessels, and genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. Between these two points, the aneurism-needle can be passed most readily, with the usual precaution of introducing it between the artery and vein, here below. (2.) The internal iliac is reached by the same incision, carried a little further upwards and inwards, above the dotted line. (See Fig. 162.) This artery also is crossed by the ureter, which may be raised with the peritoneum ; the companion vein is somewhat posterior, and the external iliac vein outside, at the commencement of the vessel. (3.) The common iliac can be reached by prolonging the incision upwards, and curving it inwards, to the extent of six inches (see Fig. 162); and there is always an advantage in having the incision below near the middle of Poupart's ligament—the loose connection of the transversalis fascia with the peritoneum, in that situation, facilitating the detachment of the latter membrane and raising it from the artery, Avhich is the most critical part of the operation. The common iliac artery will be found by tracing up the external iliac along the border of the psoas muscle. But high up the trunk ceases to have this immediate relation to the muscle, and is most intimately related to venous trunks ; on the right side, the common iliac vein lying exter- nally, and both it and the left common vein passing behind the artery ; while on the left side, the vein lies immediately internal to the artery. Their dark blue colour and large size contrast with the smaller, fawn- coloured artery. The ureter, like a white band, may perhaps cross the artery on either side ; and the inferior mesenteric artery is always in front, on the left side ; but generally both it and the ureter are out of the way. (4.) The aldoviinal aorta may be reached in the middle line, as by the operation devised and performed by Sir A. Cooper. Taking the precaution of having the bowels well emptied, an incision was made through the linea alba, three inches in length, its centre corresponding to the umbilicus (see Fig. 162) ; the peritoneum was then opened to about the same extent—the intestines, having been emptied, did not protrude. Passing the finger down between their convolutions on to the spine, the aorta was felt beating strongly. The peritoneum was scratched through with the finger-nail, and the finger being insinuated under the aorta, an aneurism-needle was conveyed round it, and the ligature tied. Ligature of the Femoral Artery, Common and Superficial.— Snrr/ical Anatomy.—The femoral artery, a continuation of the external iliac, extends from the lower border of Poujmo-t's ligament to the aperture