815 TUMOURS CONNECTED WITH JOINTS. sided. In this way I removed a loose cartilage, tlie size of a shilling, hut twice as thick, from the left knee-joint of a young man. Slight synovitis only followed the operation ; this was subdued by rest, and an ice-bag, with a perfectly successful result,—the joint remaining strong and freely movable. Another mode of operation consists in introducing a tenotomy knife slantingly underneath the skin, and dividing the synovial capsule upon the fixed cartilaginous body; then, squeezing it through the synovial aperture into the external cellular texture, where it is allowed to remain, the integumental aperture is closed with a sti-ip of plaster. If the cartilage should not become absoi'bed, it is extracted from its bed by a stibmtaneoihs incision, when the synovial aperture has healed, after the lapse of some days. Both these methods of operation are hazardous ; but the subcu- taneous one is less so than the immediate mode of extraction, as would appear from a large number of cases the results of which were compared by M. Larrey. In 167 cases of removal of loose cartilages by operation, 121 were cases of the direct operation, and 98 were successful, 5 doubtful, and 28 died; whilst of 39 subcutaneous operations, 19 were successful, 15 failed, and 5 died. A modification of the subcutaneous operation has been practised by Mr. Square, of Plymouth; and by which Mr. Erichsen states that he has successfully removed in succession five loose cartilages from one knee. The capsule having been divided subcutaneously over the fixed cartilage, it is pressedmio—not through—the synovial aperture, and retained there by a compress and strips of plaster. Adhesion speedily ensues, followed by absorption of the cartilage. Mr. Syme recommends yet another method, by which, he says, he generally succeeds without risk. It consists in "making a free sub- cutaneous incision through the synovial membrane and cartilage, and applying a blister over the part where it is retained." Tumours connected with Joints.—Cancer of the Articular ends of Bone is suflB.ciently described in connection with Cancer of Bone gene- rally. " In cartilage" observes Virchow in his " Cellular Pathology," "malignant affections are so rare, that it is usually assumed to be altogether insusceptible of them." The synovial memhranes are equally indisposed to cancerous disease. Sir B. Brodie states that he had "no reason to believe that any truly malignant disease ever has its origin in the synovial membrane." For other Morbid Growths in the articular ends of Bone, see TuMouEs OF Bone. Neuralgia of Joints is specially important in relation to the diag- nosis from structural disease. See Affections of the Nerves.