572 Fig. 182.* SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. another vein, and thus exposed to the force of the current, there a portion may be torn o£E, or a fragment dislodged and carried away. (See Fig. 80.) It would appear also that the fragments must be of suffi- cient size, in order to plug up the vessels, or at least the capillaries, in the parts to which they are borne; molecular matter washed off the thrombus by the blood-stream may hardly have any embolic effect. Embolism, therefore, is in no way necessarily, and invariably, conse- quent on thrombus softening. When, however, fragments of fibrinous coagula are once launched into the systemic venous circulation, they are generally transported through the larger veins and vena cava, into the right cavities of the heart, passing thence through the pulmonary artery into the lungs, but lodging at some point of bifurcation in the branches of the artery, or reaching the pulmonic capil- lary vessels. Here they constitute red infarctions, hsemorrhagic possibly, from rujjture of the vessels im- pacted. In whatever portion of the pulmonary circulation the vessels are thus suddenly blocked up, the depriva- tion of blood is attended with more or less urgent dyspnoea and a fit of cough- ing, as the immediate symptoms of pulmonic embolism. In other organs or parts, an impacted embolus gives rise to different symptoms, accord- ing to the functional disturbances induced; in a limb, for example, sudden pain or numbness will be experienced, and the part becomes cold and enlarged with oedematous swelling, below the seat of venous obstruction. Red embolic infarctions are subject to various changes. A healthy fibi-inous clot induces slight thickening of the wall of the vessel in which it is lodged, apparently as the result of mechanical irritation; but the intrinsic changes of the clot appear to depend on the size of the embolus, and the freedom of the collatei-al circulation, or a throm- bosed state of the adjoining vessels. "When the clot is small, and well supplied with blood, it may possibly disappear; or, gathering perhaps some fresh deposition of fibrine around itself, the clot may become organized into connective tissue. But when the embolus is deprived of blood, by thrombosis extending around it, the clot disintegrates, and is transformed into a granular yellow dry mass, forming the yellow dry infarction; which becomes encysted, and may pass into calcareons degeneration. Embolic deposits of fibrinous matter in the capillary vessels may give rise to metastatic abscesses, e.g., in the lungs (see Fig. 81) and other organs; preceded by, _ and accompanied with, the symptoms of pyremia, or purulent infection of the blood. Yet it should be remembered that f yoemic infection, so called, is only one of the possible events in the vital career of Thrombus. * St. Thomas's IIosp. Mus., N. 62^. Embolism of the posterior branch of the right middle cerebral artery. The embolus is about the size of a small pea. The aortic valves are shown in the same preparation; they arc extensively diseased, and from them the embolus was probably derived.