726 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and dislocation of the astrag:alus, the parts could be reduced after excision of the external malleolus, and the patients recovered with useful limbs. Both cases occurred in the practice of Mr. Spencer Smith. Excision, indeed, bids fair to surpass amputation in other compound Dislocations. Complicated Dislocation.—Dislocation may be complicated by association with the laceration of muscles which are put upon tlio stretch ; as the pectineus and adductor brevis, by dislocation of the thigh downwards into the thyroid foramen ; even their unyieldin-,' tendons are sometimes ruptured, as the sub-scapularis tendon, by dis'- location into the axilla. Large blood-vessels occasionally share tlio same fate, accompanied with hemorrhage and livid swelling; a viaii, nerve also may be torn asunder. Fracture of the shaft, or of the head of the bone dislocated, is another complication. This is more like' to occur in dislocation from direct violence; as by a fall on tl hip or shoulder, the neck of either bone is perilled; the olecran< ^ also may be knocked off; the bulky head of the tibia shattered; or the tarsal end of the tibia broken and bruised. Thus, then, all tlie parts around a dislocation are liable to be involved in the injnrv. But, obviously, none of those special injuries to internal organs can occur, which may complicate the Fracture of certain bones—the pelv x bones, the ribs, the bones forming the skull. Respecting morbid co. ditions; local diseases, i.e. of the joints themselves, may predispose i dislocation and thence to its recurrence, by previous disorganizaticjii of the joint affected; a parallel kind of complication to that oi: fracture from disease of the bone. So also, the diseased condition of the joint is frequently a local manifestation of some blood-disease —e.g., syphilis or scrofula, as a constitutional cause, rather than of traumatic or local origin. Whenever dislocation from disease of the joint has the former mode of origin, the reparative process is propor- tionately slow and uncertain; the more so when the constitutional disease is actually in operation. Treatment.—Both the general considerations of pathology, and the corresponding Rules of Treatment, pertaining to Complicated Fracture, are applicable also to Complicated Dislocation. Firstly,—If any morbid condition be in operation, locally or constitu- tionally, predisposing to the occurrence of Dislocation, the treatment must be entirely subject to such causative condition. Secondly,—If there be any injury additional to Dislocation, the treatment of the dislocation may be of entirely subordinate importance, even although it be, as in many such cases, severely Compound. Unreduced Dislocation and False-joint; Congenital Dislocation.— These pathological conditions may be taken consecutively : the one as the result of neglected, or possibly irreducible Dislocation; the other as being irreducible or incapable of continued reduction, owing to some congenital malformation. Both are supplementary to the pathology and treatment of ordinary Dislocation. Unreduced Dislocation and False-joint.—Structional Conditions.— The alterations of structure consequent on unreduced Dislocation are the formation of a new joint, the obliteration of the former or natural articulation, and of the track through which the head of the dislocated bone passed to its present locality. The new joint is moi-e or less perfectly constructed. If the dis-