SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 622 the right, as high as the sterno-clavicular articulation ; where it divides into right subclavian and right carotid arteries. Its lenr/th is, usually, an inch and a half to two inches. Situated within the thorax, behind the first piece of the sternum, the vessel is immediately overlaid— from below upwards—by the left innominate vein, crossing its root, the sterno-hyoid and stcrno-thyroid muscles; and above it passes between and behind the cellular interval of the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Posterior to the artery is the trachea, on which it lies obliquely; on its left side is the left carotid artery, but as the innominate ascends to the right, a considerable interval separates the two vessels, in which appears the trachea, with some remains of the thymus gland; on the right side is the right innominate vein. Nearly parallel with the artery, and along the outer side of the vein, is the phrenic nerve and the pleura. The pneumo- gastric nerve, entering the thorax, between the subclavian artery and innominate vein, gives oii its recurrent branch around that artery, and then dips backwards by the side of the trachea, to lie in the interval between that tube and the oesophagus. This nerve, therefore, has no immediate relation to the innominate artery, otherwise than just as the nerve enters the thorax behind the vein and to the right of the artery, here lying on the right side of the trachea. Operation.—The innominate may be reached from above the ster- num. The patient being placed in the recumbent position, and the head thrown well back, exposing the root of the neck, an incision is commenced in the epi-sternal notch near the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and carried upwards to the left, for about three inches, near the inner side of the left sterno-mastoid muscle. (Fig. 150.) A second incision, if necessary, may be made from over the sternal origin of the right sterno-mastoid muscle, meeting the lower end of the first incision at nearly a right angle. The skin and superficial fascia are thus divided, and if a flap of integu- ment has been formed by the second incision, it is turned up; the deep fascia is cautiously divided, and the finger passed down the trachea to the artery; or, if a flap be made, the sternal origin of the right sterno- mastoid muscle and a few fibres of the sterno-thyroid and hyoid muscles may also be divided, and the root of the carotid thus exposed is followed down to the innominate. A I'ound curved aneurism-needle, armed with a ligature, is then passed around the" vessel, and the ligature secured, with all the skill the Surofeon can command.' A needle having a point which can be detached, when felt under the vessel, may help to facilitate this critical part of the operation. The innominate has been reached anteriorhj, by removing a piece of the sternum and sternal end of the clavicle. This was done by Cooper, of San Francisco, in a case where the upper end of the in- nominate artery itself was diseased, and the aneurism affected the Fig. 150.