LIGATURE OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA, AND ILIAC ARTERIES. 539 muscular arm, than with the corresponding portion of the radial arterj. Loiver doion and superficial towards the wrist, an incision (see Fig. 159) along the radial side of the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon leads to the vessel, under the deep fascia, and perhaps somewhat overlaid by the tendon. The ulnar nerve, more under cover, is drawn inwards, and the ligature passed between it and the artery. On the annular ligament of the wrist,and in thepahn,the operation in performed only for Wound, and at the wounded point. Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta; and of the Iliac Arteries, Common, External, and Internal. — Surgical Anatomy. — The ab- dominal aorta, lying on the bodies of the lumbar vertebras, inclines downwards to the left, and divides opposite the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra, into two common iliac arteries, a right and a left. Either common iliac extends from the bifurcation of the aorta at this point, to opposite the intervertebral cartilage between the fifth or last lumbar vertebra and base of the sacrum—about two inches in length. (Eig. 161.) It there divides into two trunks or branches, external and internal iliacs: the external extending from this point, along the psoas muscle internally, to the lower border of Poupart's ligament; the internal extending from the same point, downwards and outwards on the pyriform muscle, to the sacro-sciatic foramen, about one inch and a half only in length, and smaller in size than the external iliac. The relation of the companion veins of these arteries is primarily important in their Surgical Anatomy. Eor the convenience of descrip- tion the companion veins may be taken from above downwards. The vena cava inferior, lying on the vertebral column to the right of the abdominal aorta, is situated also to the outer side of the right common iliac artery at its commencement; dividing into two common iliac veins, the right continues on the outer side of the corresponding common iliac artery, and then passes beneath it, the left common iliac vein also passing beneath that artery above. Thus, the right common iliac artery lies on both these veins. The left com- mon iliac vein, emerging from beneath the right artery, near the bifurcation of the aorta into both common iliacs, proceeds to the right or inner side of the left common iliac artery. The common iliac veins dividing at, or near, the bifurcation of the common iliac arteries ; the right external iliac vein passes beneath the right external iliac artery to the left or inner side, where it is found at Poupart's ligament; the left external iliac vein lies entirely on the right or * B, Vena cava, inferior; c, abdominal aorta, dividing into common iliac arteries; I, external iliac vein, with external iliac artery; m, internal iliac vein and artery; o, Inmbar veins ; p and g, spermatic veins. In the Thigh, 7c, femoral vein; joined by i, internal sapheuous vein.