455 ANEURISM. arises partly from shock, by the pain of tension, and partly from the loss of blood in circulation, by its extravasation. The functional symptoms of aneurism are pain, loss of muscular power, and venous congestion; or there may be special functional disturbances in connection with internal aneurisms. These do not occur until a rather late period of aneurism, and do not accompany it throughout its career. Diagnosis.—The physical signs of aneurism, already described, may themselves be absent; as when consolidation in the sac has taken place. Or, if these signs be present, they may arise from other causes, other pulsating tumours. Such are vascular or erectile tumours, and certain tumours of a highly vascular character, as encephaloid cancer. The diagnosis will be determined by comparing the signs of these tumours with those of aneurism. Then, again, a tumour or an abscess seated on an artery pulsates, and thus Fig. 111.* simulates aneurism. (Fig. 111.) In the instructive specimen here represented, a firm tumour encloses the left common carotid artery; and in which, the internal jugular vein and pneumogastric nerve are embedded and compressed. Thrombosis had taken place within the vein, thus further obliterating this vessel. But the pulsation of any superimposed mass is not expansive and uniform over its whole surface; the tumour does not subside if pressure be made on the artery above, although the pulsation ceases ; and it cannot be emptied by direct pressure. It should, however, be remembered that these negative signs are equally true of aneurism which has under- gone consolidation. In some doubtful cases, the tumour can be lifted off the artery; thus plainly declaring its inde- pendence. There are also frequently present the characteristic signs of the particular kind of tumour or swelling. But an abscess may have communicated with, an artery, by an ulcerative opening in the walls of the vessel; thus converting the abscess into an aneurismal sac, as in the well-known case of pseudo-cai'otid aneurism which Listou opened for an abscess, by an error of diagnosis. From the pain of rheumatism, aneurismal pain may be distinguished by its intermittent character, and the presence of playsical signs ; coupled, generally, with, the number of parts affected in the ■ case of rheumatism. Neuralgic pain has also its differential, althougb less distinctive, characters. Diffused aneurism is far less likely to be equivocal, its signs being more peculiar. The history of aneurism will further aid in determining its diagnosis. If the tumour be circumscribed, by conversion from diffused aneurism, there will be the antecedent transition changes from that condition. If diffused, by conversion from circumscribed aneurism, there will be antecedent transition changes from that condition ; if originally dif- fused, there will be the antecedent fact of traumatic origin. Causes, Effects, and Course of Aneurism.—Aneurism commonly arises from anm^emaZ cause; namely, a diseased or atheromatous condi- tion of the artery, by fatty degeneration into oil-particles, with crystals of cholesterine, and subsequently calcareous degeneration; affecting the * Royal Coll. Surg. Mus., 1741. (Hunterian.)