316 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER XL poisoned wounds. Hydrophobia. Hydrophobia is the constitutional disorder of tlie human species whicTi arises from contagion with the saliva of a rabid animal. The dog and cat, and other animals of the canine and feline species, are peculiarly prone to hydrophobia, or rabies, as the disorder is then termed; and there is abundant evidence to show that the bite of a " mad dog, cat, wolf," etc., induces this disease by virtue of the saliva thus introduced. The ivound, itself is often trivial—a mere scratch or graze from a tooth of the animal in the act of snapping; yet a very large proportion of persons bitten by a rabid animal undergo hydrophobia, sooner or later, and die; and it is incredible to imagine that so many individuals, differing in their constitutional idiosyncrasies, should aHke experience the same constitutional disorder, and that a fatal one, from a wound scarcely worthy of the name. The existence of a hydrophobic virus, in the shape of a peculiar morbid saliva, has been also demonstrated experimentally. Several animals were inoculated with the saliva of a rabid dog, recently dead ; a dog, a cat, a horse, and a cock were thus infected by Dr. Zine. Dupuy, in like mannei', induced the disease by taking a sponge, which had been bitten by a mad dog, and rubbing it on the open sore of a sheep. Youatt drew a silk thread backwards and forwards through the mouth of a rabid animal, and having inserted it as a seton in the neck of a sound dog, this animal subsequently died of rabies. If, then, the inoculation of a peculiar virus be indisputably the cause of hydrophobia, is this disease capable of being conveyed by clothes impregnated therewith ? Can it be communicated by fomites ? Clearly so; for a dog's tooth is itself a femes. To this effect, also, Mr. Trevelyan, writing to Dr. Bardsley, states that, after losing one pack of hounds by rabies, he not only removed the straw, but had the benches of the kennel scalded with boiling water, and afterwards all the joints painted and filled up with hot tar; the walls were then whitewashed, and the pavement cleaned with hot water. Thus secure as he imagined, he collected another pack; yet rabies again broke out and recurred year after year. In consequence of these continual attacks, he removed the pavement, threw the earth beneath into the river, refitted, new painted, and whitewashed the kennels; ever after which the pack continued perfectly healthy. The virus is usually introduced through a bite of the animal diseased, but the mere application thereof to ever so slight a wound, scratch, or other solution of continuity, in an ahsorbincj surface, is sufficient. In such case, the lick of a rabid dog generally induces hydrophobia. The surety of inoculation will obviously be affected— by the number of wounds inflicted, by lodgment of the vii'us or its escape by hjemorrhage, and, above all, by unobstructed inoculation