HYDROPHOBIA. 317 throngli the naked flesh as compared with the protection offered by clothes. Thus, of fifteen persons bitten by a mad dog, and attended at Senlis by the Commissioners of the French Royal Society of Physic, ten were bitten on the naked flesh, and five through their clothes; of the former, five proved fatal. Apart from these modifying circum- stances, there may be no evil consequence from the bite of a rabid animal, and the immunity enjoyed must be ascribed to some unknown jDeculiarity of constitution. Perhaps, observes Billroth, in not more than one out of twenty cases the disease ensues. But this propor- tion would appear to be far too low an estimate, as shown by the cases to which I have just referred; and also by the fact that, at Rochelle, of twenty-four persons bitten by a rabid wolf, eighteen perished. Local Gonclit'ion.—Hydrophobia ensues in a variable period, ave- raging about six weeks, from the date of the reception of the virus. The wound has generally healed, or it may not have healed quite soundly. In either case, slight pain of a rheumatic character shoots from the site of the bitten part to some distance; so that if the hand be the part first affected, the pain extends up the arm and shoulder, fixing itself in the trapezius muscle probably, or the proximate side of the neck. Sometimes a tingling heat, or even a sensation of cold, is experienced, rather than pain; but either sensation equally extends,— say, up the arm and shoulder. Generally, actual pain is felt, and eventually shooting towards the heart. Meanwhile the cicatrix swells, reopens, and discharges an ichorous matter. Occasionally no local symptoms occur; neither the customary radiating pain, nor any in- flammatory condition of the cicatrix. Constitutional Disorder.—^After the lapse of some days perhaps, other and more formidable, because constitutional, disorder begins. The nervous system, together with its ally, the muscular, are the subject of all those phenomena which characterize this affection. The cerebro-spinal axis acquires undue susceptibility. Consequently, the symptoms are those of cerebral excitement, with excessive general sensibility, and spasmodic affection of the muscles engaged in deglu- tition and respiration, ending in convulsions of the whole body. Rapid- flo^ving thoughts, reviving memory, and fertile imagination, are ex- pressed by a more animated manner and conversation; although, in some cases, a downcast pensive mien, yet withal irritable and peevish manner, prevails. Far more frequently, however, thoughts and fancies whirl through the brain tumultuously. An overwhelming dread takes possession of the poor victim, and his nights are sleepless or broken by starting dreams,—^this state bordering on delirium; a dull heavy pain caps the head and oppresses the temples, light is intolerable, and the slightest noise jars the whole frame; pains occur in various parts of the body, and a feeling of constriction about the throat, with a difiiculty in swallowing, especially liquids, and a distressing hickuppy catch in the breathing, sighing or sobbing. In the course of from four to six days, possibly only a day or two, the most remarkable symptom of true hydrophobia supervenes,— an indescribahle dread of fluids; any attempt to drink—even the sight or sound of water, the thought of it, or any- thing associated therewith, as the noise of teacups, or of a pump— immediately excites a convulsive paroxysm, threatening suffocation. In some cases the slightest breath of air, a fly settHug on the face, or a