18 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. first ligatured the lower cord of the plexus instead of the artery; the latter, at the end of one hour and forty-eight minutes, only succeeded in casting a ligature around the fourth cervical nerve ! Need I say more for the influence of aneurisms on adjacent parts during life? Turning to hernial tumours, as I would term them for my present purpose, how significant is the relation of Pathology to Operative Surgery! The mere anatomical knowledge of the so-called " cover- ings '' of hernise will avail but little when tested by an operation on the living body. I can understand the coverings of a piece of intestine when thrust in the direction of a hernia through the crural or inguinal apertures in the dead subject. "We might then dissect and display the superimposed layers of tissue thus artificially made tense. We might successively remove the skin, superficial fascia, intercolumnar and cre- masteiic fibres, with perhaps also some cellular tissue and the fascia transversalis from olf the sac of peritoneum, successively covering a portion of intestine thus protruded through the internal inguinal aper- ture. But I cannot understand how all this applies to a recent oblique inguinal hernia, and still less to one of former date; for then the external and internal inguinal apertures are found so approximated, and the " coverings" enumerated so matted together by constant pressure, as to have altogether effaced their mere anatomical characters and relations. In like manner, what are the "coverings" of femoral hernia ? One stroke of the knife might bring us down upon the sac, through skin and fasciee—superficial, cribriform, and transversalis; where is the septum crurale ? It therefore appears that Anatomy can be used only as a diagram for the study of herniaa, and that, like other pathological conditions, we must rely on the knowledge of hernia themselves to direct us during operations for their cure. In short, we can no longer put our trust in Anatomy alone, but may rely with confidence on Pathology as our guide. Looking around the urinary bladder and neiglibouring organs, we again discover the intimate relations of Pathology to surgical operations. The thin scrotal skin and tunica vaginalis may easily be transfixed with a common needle, and one might therefore suppose that the fluid of a distended hydrocele would always be readily detected and evacu- ated. Apart from pathological experience, no one could have pre- dicated from mere anatomical knowledge that the tunica vaginalis may itself become so thick and dense as not only to disguise the fluctuation and translucency of hydrocele, but to yield before the point of a trocar with the resistance of thick pasteboard. Should the testicle require removal, how much are our incisions modified and the adjacent parts endangered by the enormous bulk to which this organ and its coverings sometimes attain ? The urethra and fellow testis might be wounded by a bare turn of the knife. Anatomy per se can only funish our landmarks under these circum- stances, and we must trust to our actual experience of such tumours and in their removal from the living body. Again, the every-day operation of catheterism cannot be learnt on the dead subject. The parts are then so peculiarly flabby, and the urethral passage so adhesive to even a well-oiled catheter, as to commu- nicate no sensation of that grasp of the instrument which an operator experiences during life. If, indeed, the urethra be indurated and