9 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. The doctrine of constitutional irritation, originally established, by Travers, was a fertile source of inquiry for subsequent clinical ob- servers ; and only recently, the history of shock has been further elucidated by the investigations of Furneaux Jordan and Le Gros Clark; while the phenomena of tetanus, by the original researches of Lockhart Clarke, have been connected with certain definite structural changes in the spinal cord,—a hyperEemic state of the blood-vessels with exudation, and disintegrative softening of the gray substance of the cord. The vital history of local disease, in relation to the nervous and vascular systems combined,—another illustration of the pathological law to which I have referred,—has equally engaged the attention of clinical observers. Thus, we have come to acquire our present knowledge of the pathology of inflammatory fever, as proceeding from a focus of inflammation in whatever part may be effected; and the development, subsequently, of hectic fever from prolonged suppuration, and gan- grenous typhoid fever from mortification of the part or local death. AU this advancement has been the work of many contributors whose labours cannot be here adverted to. There is yet another law respecting the operation of internal causes which merits more then a passing notice; it is the causative relation of local diseases,—that one morbid condition of a part, may give rise to the same, or to another, morbid condition in another part, continuous, contiguous, or remotely situated in the body. Inflammation exhibits abundant illustrations of these modes of operation as an internal cause. The continuous extension of inflammation is witnessed in its progres- sive spreading in the skin or mucous membrane, as in erysipelas, and the sore throat of scarlet-fever. Contiguous extension is illustrated by secondary nlceration of the articular cartilages, consequent on caries of the subjacent bone, or on synovitis. So also ostitis may proceed from periostitis; cellulitis from inflammation of the skin; and con- versely. Taking internal organs from the head downwards ; meningitis is succeeded by cerebritis; scrofulous and purulent ophthalmia, by inflammation of the cornea and deeper textures of the eye ; laryngitis, by oedema glottidis; gastritis, enteritis, cystitis, and metritis, each probably, by peritonitis. The transference or metastasis of inflamma- tion to a distant part is exemplified by the supervention of orchitis from the sudden suppression of gonorrhoea. Nervous and muscular affections, of a sympathetic kind, might also be referred to, as a large and most interesting class of manifestations, in all organs and regions of the body, more or less remote from their internal causes; some such affections depending on a cause of irritation in the trunk of the nerve affected, or centrally, in the brain or spinal cord ; or, proceeding from the transference of an impression from one distant nerve to another through the medium of the central nervous axis—reflected sympathetic affections. Space will not permit me to enter further into this important view of internal causes. Originally, I believe, investigated by Dr. Whytt, the subject was ably elucidated by Sir B. Brodie in his "Local Nervous Affections," a work which almost more than any other has influenced the practice of Modern Surgery ; and yet further light has been thrown thereon, by the researches of IProfessor Hilton, in his admirable Lectures on " Pain and Rest." To complete this general view of diseases in their causative relations to each other, I may just notice the association of diseases—their