SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 456 middle or muscular coat of the vessel. In the fatty or atheromatous stage of dcgoueration, the inner aspect of the artery presents slightly elevated patches, yellowish and opaque, underneath the thin inner membranous coat; in the calcareous stage, it becomes inelastic and brittle, and the patches assume the character of bony plates, consisting of mineral salts, the phosphate and carbonate of lime,>but having little or no osseous structure ; lastly, the inner coat or lining membrane gives way, or disappears. The degenerated portion of artery having lost its elasticity, and perhaps being partially ruptured, is disposed to yield to the pulsating action of the arterial wave-current, and expand into an aneurismal sac. Hence, the formation of idiopathic Aneurism, which is primarily circumscribed, and secondarily only becomes diffused, by rupture ; or eventually perhaps again circumscribed, by fibrinous con- solidation. Billroth notices inflammatory softening of an artery as a rare cause of aneurismal enlargement; thus far regarding aneurism as an occasional consequence of arteritis, and when of an acute and idio- pathic character. The numher of aneurisms which are liable to form, simultaneously or successively, in the same individual, is mainly determined by the nature of the internal cause in operation. Fatty and calcareous de- generation not unfrequently affects a large extent of an artery, as the aorta, or many arteries, as both po^jliteals and other vessels. Thence the production of more than one, and even numerous aneurisms, in the same person. Sixty-three, for example, were found in one individual, whose body was examined by Pelletan. Predisposing Causes vary in their nature and degree of influence. Age is important, but apparently only as connected with those degenera- tive changes which the arteries, in common with many other textures, undergo as age approaches. Thus, according to the observations of Sir A. Cooper and Lisfranc, aneurism is most frequent about the middle period of life, or between the ages of thirty and fifty; whereas ten years on either side of these ages makes a very favourable difference —under twenty, and after sixty, the disease being exceedingly rare. Certain hlood-diseases seem to have some predisposing influence. Syphilis, gout, and rheumatism have this reputation. Climate appears to possess an inexplicable predisposition ; aneurism being far more common in cold than in hot countries. The immunity of the East Indies contrasts favourably with the climate of Great Britain and Ireland. Occupation has an unquestionably important influence, and especially in connection with previous habits of life. Thus, any violent exertion, and by persons who are habitually sedentary, is conductive to aneurism. Hunting, pedestrianism, rowing and other athletic sports, may therefore have this tendency. Such pursuits seem to favour the production of aneurism, by repeatedly exciting a powerful action of the heart and compression of the arteries, in muscular exertion. Sex is thus associated with predisposing causes; aneurism occurring more frequently in men than women, in about the proportion of 8 to 1, according to Hodgson's table; or nearly 11 to 1, in the cases of surgical aneurism, 154, collected by Lisfranc. The liability of different arteri, ^ to aneurism has been shown by Lisfranc to vary in the following order of frequency, as gathered from 179 cases, all spontaneous, but exclud- ing those of the aorta :—Popliteal artery, 59 ; femoral, in the groin 26, at other points 18; carotid, 17; subclavian, 16; axillary, 14; external