MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 33 port of sliarp concussive jerk, followed by relaxation for expansion of the thorax, while the tongue is still drawn out of the mouth. Electricity may be employed as the last resource, by applying one pole of a galvanic battery over the spinous processes of the upper cer- vical vertebrfe and the other to the prjBCordial region, so as to stimu- late the respiratory and cardiac ganglia. Friction of the extremities, and bottles or cans of hot water to the feet, may also be used, to promote the general circulation. These means of resuscitation should be continued perseveringly while any sign of vitality remains, for it has happened that a patient irrecover- ably dead, to all appearances, has thus at length been restored to life. Sulfhuric Ether has regained its original celebrity as an anaesthetic in America, its re-introduction into surgical practice having been accomplished mainly by the late Dr. Mason Warren, of Boston ; and it seems not unlikely to be again brought into general use in this country. The advantages claimed for ether instead of chloroform are: the greater safety of that agent,—fewer deaths having occurred from its administration, and the less tendency to vomiting under its influence,— a decided superiority in many operations. Anhydrous ether produces insensibility nearly as quick as chloroform, thus being equally eligible in this respect. It can be administered most readily, without much loss of vapour, by means of an inhaler in the form of a cup-shaped receiver, fitted to the mouth and nose, and provided with a small air aperture. A piece of flannel is placed in the inhaler, and then satu- rated with a measured quantity of well-washed ether from a graduated bottle. The symptoms of aneesthesia, under the influence of ether, are similar to those induced by chloroform, but the stage of excitement is perhaps more marked. During the ensuing relaxation, whatever surgical procedure may be necessary, is performed. Nitroios Oxide Gas has again been placed in the list of anaesthetic agents, chiefly by the advocacy of Dr. Evans, an American dentist in Paris. The action of this gas is speedy, but of questionable safety if continued longer than a few minutes, and of transient duration, sensi- bility returning almost immediately after the inhalation ceases. It is, therefore, specially adapted for operations of almost momentary pain, and which are not succeeded by immediate after-pain. Hence, the value of nitrous oxide gas in dentistry; while it is less serviceable in general surgery. The symptoms produced depend somewhat on the admixture of atmospheric air with the gas. Mixed with air, nitrous oxide is highly stimulating ; excitement is rapidly induced, and of that lively and agreeable kind which originally suggested the name of " laughing gas." Unmixed with air, its inhalation is attended with no stage of excitement, but a state of profound coma is soon presented ; and this being due to the almost asphyxiated condition of the patient, it is accompanied with turgid lividity of the face, and staring expansion of the nostrils. These alarming symptoms pass off with equal rapidity, when inhalation is discontinued, leaving generally no feeling of nausea or other discomforts. The gas may be conveniently inhaled from an india-rubber bag or balloon, of sufficient size to contain the quantity requisite for producing insensibility ; and the dose can be repeated by refilling the bag from a cast-iron stock-bottle, provided with a stop- cock, the gas having been rendered portable by condensation in the liquid form. D