532 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tion, into three parts : the first above, the second beneath, and the tJiird below the small pectoral muscle. The two first portions are more deeply placed than the third portion of this vessel, which becomes superficial below the great pectoral muscle. Pig. 155.* Posteriorly, the artery lies above, on the first intercostal space and first digitation of the serratus magnus muscle, also the nerve to that muscle—the posterior thoracic or external respiratory of Bell—which, entering the apex of the axilla from the posterior scalenus, crosses underneath the artery. Beneath the small pectoral, the artery is opposite to, but not in contact with, the upper portion of the subscapu- laris muscle; helow that boundary, the vessel lies on the lower part of the subscapularis, and then on the tendons of the latissimus and teres major muscles. Anteriorly^ the artery is covered throughout its course by the skin and fascia; and above, by the clavicular portion of the great pectoral muscle, under which is a prolongation from the costo- coracoid membrane to the sheath of the vessels. The cephalic vein, lying in the interval between the deltoid and great pectoral muscles in front of the shoulder, sinks near the clavicle under the latter muscle, and crosses the axillary artery to open into the axillary vein. It thus penetrates the costo-coracoid membrane, which is also perforated by the acromial thoracic artery—a short trunk from the front of the axillary, and by the outer of th-e two anterior thoracic nerves—a small branch from the outer cord of the plexus, and which crosses inwards over the axillary artery to enter the under surface of the great pectoral muscle. The inner anterior thoracic nerve—a small branch from the inner cord—turns upwards between the artery and vein to enter the under surface of the small pectoral muscle. Beneath the small pectoral, the artery is covered by that muscle and the superimposed part of the pectoralis major. The portion of artery below the small pectoral is overlaid by the lower border of the great pectoral muscle, and then only by the skin and fascia, superficial * Axillary and brachial arteries. — 1. Axillary artery. 2. Long thoracic branch. 3. Subscapular branch 4. Brachial artery. 5. Superior profunda branch. 6 Inferior profunda branch. 7. Anastomotic branch. 8. Biceps muscle. 9. Triceps nerves-median crossiug the artery; ulnar, below. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)