SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 460 Fiftlilj. Coagulation of the blood within an aneurismal sac may be induced otherwise than by any occasion of a retarded flow of blood. Adhesive inflammation possibly, and certainly sloughing, obliterates the sac, and leaves the artery impervious. Several remarkable instances of spontaneous cure by closure of the sac alone are recorded in Mr. Hodgson's work. Not only aneurisms of the aorta, but also those of smaller arteries, e.g., the brachial and anterior cerebral, were thus eifectually closed, without any obliteration of the aneurismal artery. For similar instances, where the aneurisms were due to unskilful blood-letting, the reader is referred to the Avorks of Scarpa, Petit, Foubevt, and Saviard. In an aneurismal dilatation of the wliole circumference of an artery ■—Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism—the cure by coagulation is just possible, only modified in a remarkable manner to meet the exigencies of the case. In one case, recorded by Sir A. Cooper, the femoral artery, from its origin to the extent of more than three inches, was dilated into a sac, which was lined throughout with very firm layers of coagulum, having a fleshy appearance. But this deposition did not completely obstruct the passage through the sac ; for an irregular canal, in some places larger than the natural boie of the artery, still remained through its centre. The coagulum that formed the imme- diate boundary of this canal was more condensed than any other portion of the whole, and had a membranous appearance. Here, then, while coagulation had effectually strengthened this important artery, its contimdty was preserved by an adequate channel through the coagulum. Only so much, and no more, coagulum had formed as was absolutely necessary to accomplish this twofold purpose. Aneurism sometimes terminates safely in another way; but, not implying the favourable course and tendency of this disease, it must be regarded rather as an accidental mode of recovery, by an evil occur- rence, than as a mode of natural cure, although no assistance is given by art. I allude to the bursting of an aneurism under a tight fascia, or other resisting structure, and compression of the sac and artery, even to obliteration, by the extravasated blood. One example of this kind is related by Sir A. Cooper. An aneurism of the femoral artery, just below Poupart's ligament, having burst, the thigh became enor- mously swollen. For three days afterwards, pulsation was perceptible over the aneurism. Then, however, it ceased, and the size of the limb began to diminish. At the end of four months, the aneurismal swell- ing had considerably subsided ; the patient could use his limb, and m less than six months he quitted the hospital. Subsequently he died from the rupture of an abdominal aneurism, and post-viortem examina- tion showed that the femoral artery was obliterated by the pressure of the large quantity of blood effused. Another mode of accidental recovery through a circumstance itself morbid, is by the pressure of an aneurism of a neighbouring artery, or by that of a tumour not aneurismal. Listen mentions the instance of a subclavian aneurism, which on dissection was found solidified by tlie compression of another aneurism springing from the innominate artery. (2.) Diffused Aneuri-sm, when it remains in this condition, runs the course already indicated by its operation as an internal cause of local and constitutional disturbances. The tumour progressively enlargmg even to an enormous size, and ultimately bursting, externally, inter-