224 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ■ulceration ; but tlie cellular texture and tendons die for some distance upwards within the stump, and are separated irregularly, by sloughing. (4.) Nervous influence, of some kind, plays an important part in mortification and ulceration. For example, injury to the spine has been followed within twenty-four hours by mortification of the ankle; and the tendency to ulceration in such a case, or of the cornea in con- nection with facial paralysis, is equally remarkable. Considering the whole internal etiology of mortification and ulcera- tion practically, the most important general fact is the co-operation, usually, of two or more causes, in either mode of textural death; whereby it is diificult to determine the share due to each internal condition, more especially in conjunction with the operation of external circumstances, such as moisture, temperature, etc. The Fever of Mortification.—Coincident with mortification, as the local disorganization, the constitutional disorder at once commences. Its phenomena or symptoms are generally more insidious, but not unlike those of Pytemia, though differing in degree. The patient has a wild apprehensive look, with great restlessness; the features and manner at length become somewhat composed, and the face assumes a pallid hue. In some cases, the tunica conjunctivas, and the skin over the whole body, acquire a peculiar yellow colour. Utter prostration of mind and muscular power gradually supervenes, and a quivering subsultus tendinum steals over the body. The pulse is now very feeble, rapid, and irregular, feeling like a fine rough wire drawn under the finger, and perhaps scarcely to be distinguished from the vibrating siibsultus of the adjoining tendons. The secretions are soon perverted. The skin, at first hot and dry, is afterwards bathed with a cold, clammy sweat. The urine, foetid and scanty, may be suppressed. A brown, rough, dry tongue with black sordes encrusting the lips, is accompanied with nausea and a putrid diarrhoea. The powers of organic and of animal life failing, involuntaiy excito-motions prevail; spasms and convulsions shake the moribund frame, while coma ends in death. Post-mortem examination reveals no appreciable morbid con- ditions, although Billroth states that, in some cases, putrid abscesses have been found in the lungs. Or, the mortification ceases to spread. The reddish-brown tint of the skin bordering the dead part, and which has hitherto spread in advance, gets brighter and more circumscribed. A white raised line— the " line of demarcation"—forms in the living skin immediately adjoining the dead; it melts into a groove by ulceration, which extend- ing deeper and deeper, as a fissure, successively passes through tissue after tissue, and at length converging, completely detaches the whole of the dead part. (Fig- 77.) Pending this course of severation from the living organism, adhesive inflammation precedes the line of ulcera- tion, and, corresponding to it in length and depth, seals the blood- vessels ; thus effectually excluding any further communication with the dead tissues, and preventing their absorption for the time to come. The typhoid fever immediately begins to subside, and ultimately ceases. In exchange, some degree of " inflammatory fever " accompanies the concurrent process of ulcerative separation and reparative adhesion. Such is a descriptive outline of the origin, course, and termination, fatal or favourable, of the constitutional disorder proceeding from mortification. Arising with spreading gangrene, it ceases when the