GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. cicatrizes. 154 Fig. 52. around tlio base of tumour, and tied in a reef-knot. An ordinary naevus on a child's head, generally thus admits of ligature. (Fig 52 ) The tumour, when effectually strangled, sloughs in a few days, leaving an open sore, which granulates and NfBvus of larger size, and so placed that the sacrifice of integu- ment would entail much disfigure- ment, may admit of subcutaneous ligature; the skin being left entire in this operative procedure, and con- sequently not sacrificed by slough- ing. The nsevus-needle, armed with a double ligature, is intro- duced at some point of the base of the tumour, and carried round its circumference to the same point; the cord is drawn out into a single ligature, the needle withdrawn, and the two ends pulled steadily and tied tight enough to thoroughly strangle the included mass of vascular tissue. If the mass be so large, or so placed, that it can- not be thus encompassed by a single passage of the ligature, then the needle-point may be made to emerge at a convenient spot, one end of the cord drawn out, the needle withdrawn, and having been re-threaded with that end of the ligature, it is re-introduced at the point of emergence and carried round the remainder of the tumour to the point where it was first introduced; the operation being completed by strangulation and securing the ligature. A nasvus on the cheek can be removed by this method, without any resulting disfigurement, more than a puckered appearance. I have known a dragging down of the lower eyelid to ensue, but this can be remedied by the operation for Ectropium. Ligature may be employed at an early period of life; in infants a month or two old, and with a successful result. Akeurism bt Anastomosis, consists of enlarged, elongated, tortuous, and perhaps convoluted arterial vessels, which freely communicate. The tumour or swelling has an ill-defined outline, and presented, when near the surface, a flattened but irregular aspect,—corresponding to the eel-like arteries (Fig. 51) ; and its distinctive character, as a vas- cular tumour, is its strong pulsations. This species of vascular growth is situated, most commonly, in the subcutaneous, or the sub-mucous cellular tissue; especially of the scalp, face, neck, or the orbit, and occasionally of the tongue. Or the tumour may be deep-seated, as in muscle or bone. Its origin—unlike n«vus—is not congenital, but the growth commences usually in childhood; and it is sometimes referable to a blow or other injury of the part affected. Treatment.—Ligature.—The tumour may be removed by ligature, either of the circumferential feeding branches, or of the main trunk of the part. The former procedure has not been followed by successful results;