GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 236 Cod-liver oil must be regarded rather as a food than a medicine; by supplying the diminished amount of fat in the blood, relative to the fibrm. ^ It certainly has a most marked influence on scrofulous mal- nutrition. Cinchona bark, whether in the form of decoction or tincture, or quinine, is highly serviceable as a tonic in strengthening the circulation, and thence indirectly improving nutrition and all other functions. But it has no special influence on scrofula, and must be regarded as an adjunct to other medicinal measures. I am thus ac- customed to prescribe the sulphate of iron in doses of three to five grains, with one or two grains of the disulphate of quinine, three times a day ; coupled with a teaspoonf ul of cod-liver oil. Local treatment has some effect on the chronic enlargement of glands, and of other parts, arising from scrofulous deposit. Applications of the compound tincture of iodine, or the stronger iodine-paint, may be advantageously aided in their stimulant operation by the pressure of strapping with soap plaster, or bandaging. Usually, however, these glandular enlargements will not subside, at least under topical treat- ment. "When abscess forms, and discharges subsequently as an ulcer, these results must be treated accordingly. Much has been said about the virtues of caustic potash and other barbarous modes of apparently punishing a scrofulous abscess or ulcer; but there need be nothing peculiar in their local treatment, and it should ever be remembered that constitutional treatment can alone have any curative efiicacy in scrofula. Operations for scrofulous conditions of the bones, joints, or other parts, should be determined by the same consideration. Constitutional treatment will often succeed in averting the necessity for excision or amputation; a highly important consideration, since any local form of a constitutional disease is always an unfavourable condition for opera- tion, and the removal of the part affected can in no way cure that disease as the primary cause. Hence, also, the postponement of such operation may not unfrequently be justifiable ; and until the local con- dition becomes more defined, or its progressive extension renders operative interference imperative, whether with regard to the part affected or its reactive influence on the general health. Scurvy and Purpura. General Symptoms.—Scurvy and Purpura are alike manifested by hremorrhages into many textures, occurring at the same time or in succession; and it will be readily imagined that these hremorrhages take place with greater facility in some textures than in others. Into cellular tissue, for example, blood is very apt to escape. Such spon- taneous haemorrhages result from alterations which the blood itself has undergone. Scurvy.—Symptoms.—The symptoms of scurvy may be well illus- trated by a supposed case. A sallow and dejected-looking man, whose strength has been gradually failing, becomes the subject of haemor- rhages of a peculiar kind. The gums are turgid, spongy, and rotten ; they ooze blood on the slightest pressure ; the teeth loosen in their sockets and drop out. This fungous condition of the gums ceases abruptly at the reflexion of the mucous membrane to the lips, which are extremely pale; so also are the tongue, fauces, and inside of the cheeks. In some rare instances, however, the lividity extends nearly