INFLAMMATION. 117 into the abscess, leaving one end hanging out, the canula then being withdrawn; or the pipe, attached to a probe, is drawn through the abscess by a counter-opening, and both ends tied together. The objection to this proceeding, is the irritation caused by the tube, as a foreign body. In fact, it is a seton; and I have never yet seen any pus escape through the tube. In chronic abscess—as of the lymphatic o-lands—with congested, bluish, and disorganized integument, whether thick and indurated, or thin and undermined, it may be advisable to open the abscess by the slower and more painful method of introducing a stick of potass-fasa, to provoke a healthy action in the pai-t; or here the irritation of a seton, or a stimulating injection, may be resorted to with advantage. But dressing the cavity from the bottom with lint, will generally prove sufficient. Otherwise, the dressing of an opened abscess should be unirritating. A light poultice may be applied to encourage the discharge of pus, during the process of granulation from within ; or the application of a piece of lint to close the aperture, as soon as possible, will be appro- priate, when the abscess is to be reopened from time to time. Abscesses by "translation," and "secondary abscesses" in the course of pyaemia, should be treated as chronic abscesses; and the more so the larger the size to which they have attained. A valvular opening therefore should be made, and closed witk a piece of lint after the tension of the sac is sufficiently relieved, this being repeated when necessary. Obviously such, treatment relates only to external, or at least to accessible parts. The antiseptic method of opening an abscess was devised by Pro- fessor Lister, with, the view of counteracting any contaminating influence from the surrounding atmosphere—due perhaps to germinal matter—and of thus precluding the decomposition of pus, consequent on the admission of air to the cavity of the abscess. Accordingly, the abscess is opened with a bistoury in the usual manner, bat under the protective influence of some agent, which seems to possess the power of opposing any such septic change in animal matter—an antiseptic; and for this purpose, carbolic or phenic acid is generally employed. The method of treatment consists, either in surrounding the abscess with an antiseptic atmosphere of carbolic acid; or of placing the abscess under a fluid, such as oil, which has heen rendered anti- septic. Then the opening is made, apparently with greater safety than when thus unprotected. The former method is practised by throwing a spray of carbolic acid solution upon the part, thus creating an antiseptic atmosphere; and the blade of the knife may also be dipped in the solution, which should be of moderate strength, about one part of the acid to eighty of water. Under cover of an antiseptic oil, say one part to four of linseed oil, an abscess may be opened yet more securely, or the matter may be allowed to escape from under a layer of lint soaked in the oil. After either of these methods of open- ing an abscess with antiseptic precautions, the opening should be dressed with carbolic acid paste, or the oil, thickened with chalk, and then covered with tinfoil, the more effectually to preclude the admis- sion of air. I do not find, in practice, any unequivocal advantage from the antiseptic method of treatment; and I am disposed still to rely, as I have done for years with quite equal success, upon the security afforded