TUMOUES OK MORBID GROWTHS. 169 opaque fluid, yielded on gentle pressure, indicates the progress towards this change. As affecting colloid cancer, softening represents, not perhaps any further change in its already jelly-like matter, but the breaking down of its containing stroma, with rupture of the locnli and escape of their contents. The commencement of softening, in any species of cancer, is either at the circumference or centre of the tumour; and in a single spot, or in several spots, simultaneously. Age seems to have no definite relation to these changes. In old persons, the arrest of cancer is not an uncommon event. One such case, under the care of Mr. Cooke in the Cancer Hospital, was that of a healthy-looking woman, with a ruddy complexion, and aged eighty-two. Scirrhus of four years' duration existed in her left breast, and she had been an out-patient just twelve months. Another instance, in the Uni- versity College Hospital, was that of a woman aged seventy-seven. The disease had existed for seven or eight years, but was progressive during the last eight or nine months. Terminations.—(a.) Resolution and Absorption is one mode of spo«.- taneous mre. This would appear to be synonymous vdth Atrophy,—as the result of withering and induration of the cancer, coincident with fatty, and perhaps calcareous degeneration of its structure, until the tumour has partly or entirely disappeared. Both the ordinary species of cancer-growth have been known to undergo spontaneous cure in this way. But such instances are very rare, and exceptional. Thus, scirrhus of the breast disappeared in a lady whose other breast had been extirpated for this disease. In this case, scirrhus was found in several of the abdominal viscera ; the patient having died of asthma not long after the subsidence of the breast-cancer. An encephaloid cancer of the eye of an infant ultimately disappeared, and was followed by dropsy and atrophy of the eyeball. (6.) Suppuration is another mode of spontaneous cure. A man had a large scirrhous tumour removed from his back. The disease returned. No operation was again performed; but subsequently violent inflammation supervened, an abscess followed with profuse suppurative discharge, and then recovery, (c.) Mortifica- tion may extirpate a cancer, though rarely. The whole tumour is eHminated by sloughing in a mass. None of these modes of sponta- neous cure, however, have proved of permanent duration. Cancerous Ulceration and Ulcer.'—The former consists in the mole- cular disintegration or destruction of the structural elements of the textures, as in ordinary ulceration, preceded, however, by interstitial inBltration circumferentially; thus differing from ordinary ulceration. And the infiltrating cancer-elements, although themselves dying, seem to exercise a destructive influence over the proper textural elements. Species of Cancer, in relation to Ulceration.—Cancer-growth mani- : fests a tendency to ulceration, in different degrees, according to the 1 particular species. Scirrhus is inherently disposed to undergo this I change, and which is exhibited in either of two ways : by softening and ) disintegration of the cancer-substance, leading to discharge through 1 ulcerative destruction of the integument; or, by cancerous infiltration ^ with adhesion of the integument to the tumour, resulting in ulcex'ation. Two modes of ulceration, therefore, may be recognized,—the deep or c excavating, and the superficial or erosive; the former presenting an I ulcer which has characteristic appearances—those of the scirrhous