521 LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE ARTERY. loith the artery. But care should also be taken not to ligature any- extraneous structure instead of the vessel; as a nerve, or portion of the sheath. The finger placed on the distal side of the artery will at once Fig. H8. discover whether pulsation is stopped, and the vessel secured. One end of the ligature is then to be snipped off close to the knot on the vessel, and the other end left hanging out of the wound, guarded by a small strip of adhesive plaster; and, lastly, a piece of wet lint is placed over the incision, which may be partly closed by a few points of suture. Ligature of an Artery at the seat of a Wound, involving the Vessel.—The wound is here used as the incision, leading down to the artery. It may require to be enlarged, as in the case of a punctured or other narrow wound; and much difficulty may be experienced in finding the vessel, owing to the infiltration of surrounding textures with blood. The artery may be found punctured, or completely divided. In either case, the rule of treatment for securing it and arresting hfemorrhage is the same. A ligature must be applied on either side of the aperture, or to either cut extremity; this doiible ligature being necessary to stop the haemorrhage from the distal, as well as the cardiac, end of the artery—which would otherwise continue to bleed by the anastomotic supply of blood from above the upper ligature. In this procedure, a tourniquet is placed on the limb above, to control the main trunk. Puncture, or division, of an arterial branch dose to the trwtih whence it springs, is equivalent to an aperture in that vessel of equal size to the branch or the puncture in it. The same treatment therefore will be requisite; ligature of the trunk above and below the branch. Ligature of an artery, on the surface of a wound—e.g., a stump after amputation—has been described in connection with Incised Wound. The Ligature of Arteries will now be described severally, and in consecutive order from the commencement of the Arterial System to the Extremities; and with each such Operation I think it desirable to associate a preparatory summaiy of the Surgical Anatomy of the Artery. Ligature op the Innominate or Brachio-cephalic Artery.— Surgical Anaiomy.—This artery arises from the commencement of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and ascends obliquely to