GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 810 wateiy fluid or bloody serum, have been observed, and the sensation in the sore has been described as resembling the sting of a gnat. The secretion of pus is arrested, and the surface is covered with a tenacious viscid ash-coloured matter, which adheres firmly. After some time a discharge of thin ichorous matter ensues, a very peculiar cadaverous febrile smell, the pain increases, the edges of the sore are reverted, and generally assume a circular foi'm; an erysipelatous redness encircles it, extending possibly to a great distance, even over a whole limb; the neighbouring glands, as those of the axilla or groin, swell, inflame, and perhaps suppurate. This diffuse inflammation goes on apace, thin ichor continues to be discharged in great quantity, and a thick slough, apparently of coagulable lymph, like melted tallow, covers the whole surface of the sore; the ftetor is intolerable and the pain insupportable. At last an oozing haemorrhage soaks the dressings, or a larger blood- vessel having sloughed, robs the patient of his last remaining source of strength, and the typhoid constitutional commotion soon terminates in death. Blackadder noticed that when the disease attacks a larcfp. recent wound, its whole surface may be alfected at once; while in other eases, the gangrene commences on, or near, the lips of the sore. (3.) Passing from incised to contused wounds; when the disease attacks a recent gim-shot woiond, the discharge, two or three days after contagion, is found to be lessened, and to have become more sanious than purulent. The sore has a certain dry and rigid appearance, its edges are more defined, somewhat elevated and shariDened, and the patient experiences in it a stinging sensation, as if occasioned by a gnat. Then, or a day or two later, the integuments at the edge of the sore become inflamed, and the surface of the sore itself assumes a. livid or purple colour, and appears covered with a fine pellicle, such as forms on coagulating blood. (4.) As attacking a 'puncture or scratch, "the first apj)earance of hospital gangrene resembles that of a part inoculated with vaccine virus." The primary inflammation begins at the end of the second, or early on the third day ; it reaches its height about the sixth; but when the scab begins to form in one disease, fliagedienic ulceration begins in the other, and if allowed to proceed soon aifords sufiicient proof of the non-identity of these diseases. (5.) Should the disease attack an old sore, where a considerable depth of new texture has been formed, a vesicle arises, filled with a livid or brownish-black fluid, which bursts and assumes the appearance of a small dark-coloured spot. Such vesicle, or spot, is usually situated at the edge of the sore. Phagedfenic ulceration, spreading therefrom, makes comparatively very slow progress through the surface-bed of new texture, but having reached the subjacent natural texture, its progress is suddenly accelerated, acute inflammation supervenes, and a large slough forms. (6.) Lastly, when attacking the skin from which the cuticle has been removed, as by a blister, one or more small vesicles first appear, filled with a watery fluid, or bloody serum of a livid or reddish-brown colour. The situation of this vesicle also is generally at the edge of the sore. Its size is not unfrequently that of a split garden-pea, and it is easily ruptured, the pelHcle which covers it being very thin. If the vesicle contain a watery fluid, and has not been ruptured, its appearance resembles a greyish-white slough; if containing a dark-