646 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 246 * days, and an enema administered. The action of tbe bowels should be rather restrained by opiates, thus to prevent disturbance of the part by daily evacuation; while some accumulation of faeces in the rectum may act as an efficient compress, instead of using any artificial form of rectal plug. I prefer rectal constipation for the purpose of keeping the lower fragment of the sacrum in good position, at least after the first few days, when the impaction of f8eces will usually be sufficient to check displacement; and the continued introduction of a foreign body is less tolerable to most patients. A roller drawn firmly round the pelvis, and the support of a flat, resisting mattress, insures the rest requisite for union. This takes place in about a month, or a shorter period, according to the less frequent disturbance of the part by the act of defsecation. Thus, in a case under Bermond's management, tbe rectal plug was retained without much inconvenience nineteen days, having been only once removed during that period ; and union was then firm. Fracture of the Coccyx is an uncommon acci- dent. The structural condition, signs, causes, and treatment are the same as in fracture of the coccy- geal portion of the sacrum. The pain and incon- venience by occlusion of the rectum may be very persistent, after the injury itself is repaired. The sitting posture will then be made more tolerable or comfortable, by wearing a pad on each tuberosity of the ischium. A borseshoe-shaped air-cushion will also give great relief, as I have known in cases of coccydynia, a painful or neuralgic affection of the coccyx. Fractuees of the Femuk.—Like other long bones, fracture of the thigh-bone may occur, in its Upper Articular end, the Shaft, or the Lower Articular end. (Fig. 246.) Fractures op the Upper Articular End com- prise those of the Neck, within, or outside, the Capsule, and Trochanteric Fractures. (1.) Intra-capsular Fracture of the Neck of the Femur.—Structural Conditiom.—In direction, intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur is, generally, somewhat oblique—from above down- -wards and outwards, including sometimes a portion of the head ; occa- sionally, it is quite transverse. (Fig. 247.) The capsule and periosteum are generally rent asunder incompletely, but sometimes completely. Displacement of the two fragments usually occurs; the lower fragment, * Fractures of Femur. Diagram showing situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—1. Intra-capsular. 2. Extra-capsular. 3. Through great trochanter. 4. Inter-trochanteric. 5. Summit of great trochanter, or epiphysis (Middlesex Hosp. Mus 111, 2). 6. Below trochanters. 7. Upper third. 8. Middle third. 9. Lower third 10. Supra and intor-rondyloid, into knee-joint (St. Bartholomew's Mus., C. 13). 11. Internal condyle. 12. External condyle. (Author.) ^2