THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 30 is unnecessary to give chloroform to its full extent; but only so far as to deaden sensation in the incisions or painful part of the operation. Epileptic persons may be subjected to the influence of chloroform inhalation, administered cautiously, however, considering their liability to suffer from congestion of the brain. Hysterical persons are said to be subject to laryngeal spasm, during inhalation. Disease of the Heart does not absolutely contra-indicate the adminis- tration of chloroform, but only that it be given with extreme caution; watching the pulse especially, and the breathing. In fatty degeneration of the heart, the sedative influence of chloroform is liable to suddenly arrest the action of this organ with instant death. In valvular disease there is less danger. Disease of the Lungs is not specially obnoxious to inhalation. In phthisis, not far advanced, no difficulty arises; but with bronchial irritation, troublesome cough is apt to be produced. Disease of the Kidneys, resulting in degeneration of these organs, and the retention of urea in the blood, is a condition decidedly un- favourable for the administration of chloroform. Congestion of the brain being superadded to the urasmic-poisoning, may induce epileptic convulsions, with lividity of the face, stertorous breathing, and coma. All Surgical Operations allow of the employment of chloroform, excepting a few in which the assistance of the patient is required, and in operations attended with copious haemorrhage into the mouth. In some cases, however, pain may be prevented to a great extent, by giving chloroform during the earlier or more superficial parts of the operation. Age is no objection to the employment of chloroform; infants and octogenarians taking it with safety. Administration of Ghloroform.—Prior to giving chloroform, the patient should be directed to omit taking food for four or five hours, as the presence of any food in the stomach is apt to cause troublesome vomiting during inhalation. The patient lying recumbent with the head and shoulders just comfortably elevated on a pillow, he should not be allowed to raise himself in any struggling excitement, or be raised, into the sitting posture whilst under the influence of chloro- form, lest cardiac syncope take place. Any tight band round the neck or waist should be loosened, the breast had better be exposed, and care should be observed not to subject the thorax, or the abdomen espe- cially, to any compression, as the respiration becomes principally dia- phragmatic. Chloroform may be administered simply on lint or a handkerchief, or by means of an inhaler of some kind. The former mode is in general use, it being equally safe, provided only two precautions be observed; the chloroform must not be given too suddenly, or the vapour breathed in too concentrated a state without a free ad- mixture of air. The mode of administration is simply this: a piece of lint or a handkerchief folded two or three doubles, and about the size of the hand, is sprinkled with a drachm or two of chloroform, measured from a graduated bottle; it is then held near the nostrils, but so as to admit a free admixture of air with the first few inhalations; after the lapse of about a minute, a towel may be placed over the face of the patient