INFLAMMATION. 65 or nine minutes. The fluid blood is thus converted into a jelly. But in a variable period, from seventeen to twenty minutes, or much later, this jelly begins to shrink away from the sides of the basin, and the colourless, transparent serum exudes—a process which, continuing for several hours, or even days, at length leaves a blood-red clot, floating about in limpid serum. And what is this clot ? The fibrin of the liquor sanguinis, whicb has spontaneously solidified into fine homo- geneous filaments, interwoven like felt, and which has caught and involved the red corpuscles. They also have spontaneously aggregated, their disc-shaped surfaces cohering side by side, and forming rouleaux, like piles of money, which connected themselves into an irregular net- work ; the shrinking of this fabric, intertwined vnth that of the fibrin, expressed the serum, and thus aided the solidification of the clot. Two constituents, therefore—the fibrin and red discs—together sponta- neously aggregate to form the clot, wliich consists of woven filaments involving the net of red discs. The expressed serum is structureless. The pale or colourless corpuscles are irregularly distributed throughout the clot and serum. These changes are represented in the following table :— ^, ., -^^ { Liquor Sanguinis. \ , ) ^ , ^ , -r., i Fhiid Blood. \ , ^ Fibrm. ^, . } Coagulated Blood. I Corpuscles. | ^^loi. j If the blood, freshly drawn as we have supposed, be inflamviatory, its coagulation then presents a clot, the upper portion of which is pure fibrin, of a tawny-yellow colour, and known as the huffy coat. This, therefore, consists of a portion of fibrin, which has coagulated apart from the mesh formed of red discs. And what is the immediate cause of this kind of clot ? Obviously, that the red discs separated and subsided from the liquor sanguinis before the fibrin began to coagu- late. How does such isolation arise ? Possibly in either of two ways, or by a concurrence of both. The fibrin may coagulate so slowly as to allow time for the blood-discs to separate and subside. But Dr. Stokes watched the coagulation of inflammatory blood in twenty-seven cases. In fifteen of them the buffy coat formed; in the remaining twelve it did not. In four of these twelve samples of ordinary coagulation, it began only at the end of eight minutes after venesection, and in other three of this series not until after twenty to forty minutes had elapsed, making a range between the two extremes of from eight to forty minutes. This delay of coagulation gave ample opportunity for the red discs to escape from the fibrin during its solidification; yet they did not subside, and the usual red clot formed. On the other hand, in twelve of the fifteen samples of buff-forming coagulation, the yellow clot of pure fibrin formed in only five minutes, and in the remaining three it was delayed only to ten minutes; so that, during this com- paratively short period of five or ten minutes, the red particles had Beparated and settled down, leaving the buff-coloured fibrin free and floating. Slow coagulation, therefore, does not explain the production of the bulfy coat. The only other active element in coagulating blood is the mesh- forming discs; and how do they behave in freshly drawn inflammatory blood ? They individually possess undue power of aggregating (H.