MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 3 The comparative importance of tlie three divisions of investigation respecting injury or disease, and of the whole of this pathological knowledge in relation to treatment, may be estimated as follows :— 1, Diagnosis is primarily necessary, in order to discover the par- ticular structural condition, and extent of the injury or disease, when capable of being so defined, and its distinction from other conditions. To make this discovery, the concomitant effects of the morbid condition are taken as Signs or Symptoms of its existence. The relative diagnostic value of such evidence will depend upon, and vary with, its more or less constant and exclusive conjunction with the morbid condition. Accordingly, a Symptom, or as the etymological meaning of this term would express, a coincidence or co-occurrence, is less characteristic and distinctive than a Sign, the latter being that by which anything is known or recognized. Any sign peculiar to a morbid condition is named pathognomonic. But the co-existence, or at least the consecutiveness of symptoms,—any one of which would be equivocal, if taken by itself,—constitutes a weight of evidence, greater in the aggregate than that which the several items of evidence would represent by being merely added together. This augmenta- tion of collective evidence is by virtue of a law of mental association, and not a property of numbers or of any kind of magnitude. If in one balance of a weighing scale were placed a weight of five pounds, and in the other a weight of one pound, the balance is as five to one. Other weights of one pound each being successively added to the one-pound scale, would severally tend to equalize the balance ; and five such weights would equal a five-pound weight; but five separate pounds weight, so to speak, of evidence, taken together, preponderate over a single five-pound weight of adverse evidence. In the diagnosis of the different general forms of Injury—already mentioned—the discrimination of Fracture from Dislocation and other conditions, affords an instructive illustration of the equivootal value of signs and symptoms, taken singly and separately, but of their conclu- siveness, when considered collectively, in determining the diagnosis of this injurv. Let me first biiefly enumerate the signs and symptoms of Fracture, say in either limb; and then proceed to the Diagnosis; as hereafter stated in the course of this work. Fracture is attended with mohility of the broken portions of bone, and crepitation, a rough grating sensation, felt and heard when the broken surfaces are gently moved in contact. Usually the normal outline of the limh is altered, by the displacement of the fractured ends of bone, a deformity which the experienced eye will frequently recognize at a glance ; and there is more or less elevation or depression, also occasioned by the displacement, prior to swelling, at the immediate seat of fracture. Shortening of the limb, in some degree, takes place, when one of the single long bones is broken; this sign arising from the involuntary contraction of the muscles which act on the lower fragment. Lastly, pain, and inability to use the limb, are functional symptoms, which the patient experiences, and which may be included in the evidence obtained by the surgeon in his examination. Proceeding to analyze the diagnostic value of these signs and symp- toms, as the evidence of Fracture, they may severally be estimated as