454 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and not forming a sac. It commonly occurs in the arcli of the aorta. Dissecting aneurism is sacculated, but the sac is formed between the coats of the artery, and generally between the internal and middle coats, which have become separated or dissected up by the force of the blood, the inner coat having given way. Or, the sac may form between the external and middle coats of the vessel. (Fig. 110.) The sac thus situated may extend a considerable distance along the vessel. Dis- secting aneurism was first described by Shekelton. Signs.—The physical signs of aneurism vary with its condition. True aneurism at first presents a small, soft, circumscribed tumour (Pig. 112), pulsating -with an expansive movement to the touch, to the eye, and to the ear,—as a rasping or sawing sound or bruit,—in unison with each beat of the heart. These characters may be rendered more perceptible by arresting the current of blood with the finger on the artery, below the aneurism. The pulsation ceases and the tumour itself subsides, if the current of blood through the aneurismal sac be arrested by compressing the artery above the aneurism; but on allowing the blood again to flow, the tumour refills, with a sudden and expansive impulse. And, at this early period, the sac can be emptied by pressure, and the blood thus returned into the artery. Mixed, and circumscribed false aneurism, respectively, are not characterized by any peculiar signs; either of these forms of aneurism presenting a circumscribed tumour, and in its early stage beating and thrilling under the finger, yet being also reducible. Seeing then that the signs of these three forms of aneurism are indistinguishable, their distinctive names are, in my opinion, practically useless. In the course of time, the aneurismal sac, enlarging and borrowing more and more fibrine from the passing stream of blood, becomes partially consolidated. The tumour, as felt externally, is, therefore, no longer soft, although still circumscribed; its pulsations are fainter and less expansive, and the swelling cannot be reduced by compressing the vessel above, nor by direct pi'essure without such force as would break up the clot. The sound or h7-uit also, produced by the pulse-wave of blood through the aneurism, may now be absent; as when the neck of the sac is too narrow to readily admit the cur- rent of blood into the sac, or if the sac be consolidated with coagulum. Hence, the characteristic signs of aneurism are modified or absent. Diffused false aneurism, in virtue of its essentially distinctive con- dition from that of any circumscribed aneurism, might be designated simply,—Diffused Aneurism. The tumour is generally of much larger size than a circumscribed aneurism; its outline is no longer defined, the pulsations are fainter and more indistinct or quite imperceptible ; and the blood, being infiltrated, cannot be returned into the aneurismal artery. The swelling resembles a large ecchymosis, the superjacent integuments being discoloured like an extensive bruise. The limb or part dependent on the artery for a due supply of arterial blood, becomes cold and oedematous, threatening gangrene. If the diffused form be consequent on circumscribed aneurism, the individual will have felt something give way suddenly, followed immediately by notable enlarge- ment of the aneurismal swelling, accompanied with intense pain and faintness. The former symptom—sudden accession of intense pain, is due to tension from the diffusion of blood among the textures and possibly under unyielding fasciro; the latter symptom — faintness,