LIGATUBE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY. 543 aforesaid adductor muscles, thus completing the canal through which the artery passes. The femoral artery and vein, the latter lying to the inner side under Poupart's ligament, are enclosed in a loose tubular sheath, formed by a prolongation in front from the transversalis fascia of the abdominal wall, and behind, from the fascia iliaca; narrowing downwards around the femoral vessels, to about two inches in extent below the ligament, this sheath becomes continuous with the common cellular sheath which also invests the vessels within the special or crural sheath. The outer border of this sheath is straight, the inner oblique ; and, from about half an inch below Poupart's liga- ment, the inner border corresponds to the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, itself about one inch and a half in length. The curved falciform process of Burns—bound- ing the outer margin of this open- ing—is that portion of the iliac part of the fascia lata which over- lays the sheath of the femoral vessels ; and the upper cornu of this process stretches inwards to join the base of Ginibernafs ligament— thus giving the outer margin of the saphenous opening a direction downwards and inwards. Behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, the pubic or inner portion of the fascia lata passes outwards over the pectineus muscle. Enclosed within the sheath, the femoral vessels are separated by a cellular septum; and another septum to the inner side of the vein, forms a third or inner compartment—the crural canal, which is unoccupied otherwise than by a lymphatic gland, excepting when a femoral hernia descends through it to the saphenous opening. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve perforates the outer side of the sheath in fivnt of the artery, and then pierces the fascia lata near Poupart's ligament to become subcutaneous. A small branch from the anterior crural nerve, above Poupart's ligament, descends on the artery. The long, * Deep part of the Femoral Artery.—a, femoral artery; b, profunda, or deep femoral branch; c, internal circumflex, its commencement, passing baclvwards; d, f^xternal circumflex; e, superficial circumflex iliac; f, external pudic—inferior branch, superior branch above; g, aponeurosis over the lower part of the femoral artery ; H, anterior crural nerve; i. pectineus muscle; J, adductor longus ; K, gracilis; I-, vastus internus; m, rectus femoris; n, sartorius, cut. (Quain, " Arteries." reduced.)