SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 590 instances of fracture,'extension is maintained by means of an adjoining hone, used as a lever. In fractured clavicle, the humerus is utilized ; an axillary pad being the fulcrum. Counter-extension is also secured] occasionally, by means of an adjoining bone as the resting point. In fractured fibula, the head of the tibia is made the fixed point for Dupuytren's splint. A suitable, yet simple, retentive apparatus, of splints and bandages, having been adjusted, the Hmb is rested and supported in a moderately elevated position to relieve any tendency to congestion, provided such elevation be compatible with that position whereby the muscles are most relaxed. In fractures of the lower extremity, where the patient remains in bed, a firm mattress is required to support the limb evenly and equably throughout its extent. If the fractured fart be un- supported, it bends somewhat by its own weight, and displacement with eventual deformity will ensue. If either end of the limb be allowed to sink, there is the same tendency. Moreover, an even support to the whole limb is the best safeguard against sloughing from undue pressure on any one point. The weight of bed-clothes, if tending to disturb the fracture, may be removed by a cradle. Spasmodic action of the muscles continues, in most cases, only for the first few days after the fracture has been set, during which period, therefore, displacement is most apt to recur; but as the process of reparation scarcely begins before ten days or more—the " brooding-time "—has elapsed, the final adjustment of any displacement is comparatively unimportant until then. The reparative lymph forms a soft callus, fibro-cellular or carti- laginous, which remains pliant for some days or weeks; and, as proceeding from the living bone, it is self-constructive, and adapting in its supply; differing in all these provisions from the sudden and passive setting of any inorganic concrete or cement, and Vhich is without increment, in any artificial mode of adhesion. During the process of reparation, therefore, the pathological Surgeon is ever watchful, never meddlesome, in his regard to the correct coaptation of the fragments, and the consequent length and shape of the limb. Absolute rest of the fractured part is not essential to union without displacement; and this suggestion of pathology regulates the degree of security requisite in any form of artificially retentive apparatus. Every trivial displacement, also, of the splints and bandages need not be readjusted. If, however, the bandages slacken, they must be reap- plied; if the retentive appliances get disarranged, they must be replaced. On the other hand, if pressure has become undue at any part, whether by swelling of the flesh or setting of the padding, that part should forthwith be relieved—perhaps by snipping the bandage, here or there, with fine-pointed scissors—ever remembering that the Surgical purpose of any " retentive apparatus " is not to fix the limb in a vice ; but only so as, by securing rest, to gain time for the injured part to itself undergo the process of reparation. If, therefore, spasmodic muscular action still recurs, from time to time, and threatens to frustrate the healing operation of Nature, the rebellious muscles should be coaxed, if possible—not coerced—by any acceptable alteration of position; and quieted by the administration of sedative medicines, of which opium and the tincture of digitalis are, perhapsjthe most antispasmodic. Tenotomy has been proposed, as a last