Fig. 411.* SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 237". (Fig. 410.) Inter-articular ligaments and fibro-cartilages are more or less destroyed and disappear; thus, tlie round ligament in the hip-joint, and the long head of the biceps in the shoulder-joint, are removed by absorption. The sub-cartilaginous osseous structure is much condensed, and the whole articular end of the bone enlarged and deformed by the surrounding osseous growths; while the articular surfaces be- come singularly altered in shape. Thus, the globulai- heads of the femur and humerus are flattened and expanded, and their necks shortened; the corre- sponding articular cavities also being enlarged and shallow. These alterations, with the bony buttresses thrown out around the articular ends, have some- times been mistaken for fracture with bony union, in examining such pathological specimens of the neck of the femur or humerus. Multiple exostosis of the knee-joint resembles chronic rheumatic arthritis, in the advanced stage of this disease; but the exostoses are capped with cartilage (Fig. 411), and thus differ from the purely ossific deposits consequent on rheumatic arthritis. The Signs of chronic rheumatic synovitis or arthritis are distinctive :—pain, enlargement and ultimate deformity of the joint, rigidity or stiffness, and a peculiar crackling or grating noise on moving the joint. The pain is not acute, but of an aching, boring, or gnawing character, worse at night, in- creased by motion, but passing off somewhat by exercise during the day, and aggravated by cold and moisture; it is, in short, rheumatic pain. The general health may remain comparatively unaffected for years. The Causes of this disease always have reference to the constitu- tional condition of Rheumatism, and sometimes exposure to cold or injury as an exciting cause. Thus, chronic rheumatic synovitis may result from rheumatic fever or from repeated attacks of rheumatism ; or in a person predisposed, direct exposure of a joint to cold or some slight injury, as a sprain, may evoke the disease. Many joints are liable to be affected, the disease passing from joint to joint without relieving those originally attacked ; or only one joint may be affected. The larger joints, especially the hip and knee, seem to be most fre- quently attacked in males; the smaller joints, as those of the fingers, in females. But, apai't from this relative difference, both sexes would seem to be nearly equally liable to the disease. Age has no special proclivity; the disease usually occurs after mid-life, but it may also appear in young persons. Thin, bloodless, chilly persons are more often subject to chronic rheumatic arthritis. No social condition is exempt; the poorly fed and hard-worked being prone, the luxurious and indolent subject, to this disease; in the latter class, assuming the character of rheumatic gout. Course and Terminations.—Chronic rheumatic synovitis is singu- larly persistent, evincing little tendency to subsidence, or termination by resolution. The irregular enlargement and deformity of the joints, with the weakened state of the ligamentous structures, and altered