309 HOSPITAL GANGEENE. tion resembles more that o£ phagedena, alternating with, rapid sloughing; so that the worm-eaten phagedjenic surface suddenly be- comes a large slough, and then again phagedsenic. These different aspects of the disease are apt to mask its really gangrenous character. What, then, are the phenomena more constantly observed ? Acute pain, sudden engorgement and bloated swelling, dusky-red discoloura- tion around the doomed part, and conversion of its textures into a putrid glutinous or slimy slough, exhaling a peculiar foetid odour. Rapidly extending, all the soft textures are soon melted down, leaving only the bones staring, of an ebony black,—as if the rafters of a house Avhere a fire had raged. These general characters are clearly visible in the portraits of this disease, drawn by eye-witnesses; varied, however, by special circum- stances ; principally, by the previous kind of injury to the part affected, the textures engaged, and the constitution of the individual. Origin and Course.—To identify this gangrene under the modifying circumstances referred to, it is necessary to trace its origin and pro- gress—in a stump after recent amputation, as an incised wound, or granulating as an ulcer, a recent gunshot wound, a small puncture, an old sore, and lastly, a blistered surface. For the particulars of these six aspects of Hospital Gangrene, I avail myself, chiefly, of Blackadder's original and valuable treatise. (1.) When a stumj} is affected, and the patient has a plethoric habit, or is accustomed to live freely, intense inflammatory action soon runs through its whole substance; swelling rapidly increases, so that in a few days the stump acquires more than twice its former size, and being much indurated, occasions the most excruciating pain. In this state the patient may become delirious, and die suddenly by effusion into some of the larger cavities. More frequently, however, gangrene seizes upon the integuments and cellular textiire, large sloughs are thrown off, and some of the larger blood-vessels giving way, the patient sinks under the exhaustion of repeated hgemorrhage. Sometimes the progress of the disease in a stump is more gradual, yet ultimately nearly as fatal. Inflammation is much less acute—there is comparatively little tumefaction, and the pain is far less severe; but the discharge is much more copious, and the cellular texture connecting the integu- ments and muscles is rapidly destroyed. Heemorrhage generally suiser- venes later than in the preceding instance; it is, however, the most common cause of death. Sometimes a stump, almost soundly cicatrized to all appearance, will suddenly bui'st open and fall into gangrenous disintegration. Such cases are well described by John Bell. In one day he saw three stumps burst open, each of which had so nearly cicatrized, that you could have covered the small spot remaining un- healed with the tip of the little finger. When this gangrene supervenes after any amputation, the case may be regarded as that of an incised wound, heahng probably by adhesion, but suddenly diverted from primary union, and undergoing the afore- said process of destruction. (2.) Observe the same gangrenous inflammation supervening on a healthy gramdating wound, or ulcer. The nicer becomes painful and swollen, loses its healthy florid appearance, while the granulations, which were small and distinct, become flabby, and in some cases appear as if they were distended with air; in others, vesicles containino- a