SYPHILIS. 249 Primary and Local Venereal Ulcers.—(1.) Ghancre,a,nd. its Diagnosis.— Chancre is a primary syphilitic sore or ulcer. After exposure to con- tao"ion or inoculation, a period of incubation ensues, during which nothing is discernible, and the individual thinks himself well. The duration of this period varies, averaging from two to three weeks, and being rarely under a week (H. Lee), but, perhaps, extending to five or six, and very rarely to eleven weeks. (Bumstead.) Then the primary manifestation of syphilis begins. Commencing with a trifling itching, affecting usually some spot in the furrow at the base of the glans penis, near the frsenum, or it may be on the prepuce or the skin of the penis itself; there soon, appears, as the initial lesion, a small pimple, whose summit speedily becomes a vesicle, containing a thin transparent fluid-lymph, or becoming thicker and opaque—in fact, purulent—when subject to irritation. The vesicular stage of chancre is seldom met with. I have seen it only twice. This vesicle or pustule bursts and forms an ulcer. If the syphilitic virus be introduced through a crack or abrasion, which may happen in the act of inter- course or have existed previously, the chancre forms an ulcer, without any incipient pimple or vesicle; obviously because the cuticle there raised by secretion, was here removed. The primary syphihtic ulcer may appear in either of two forms, (a) A superficial erosion, flat or elevated, when the subjacent in- duration has taken place. The shape of this sore is circular, but sometimes irregular; and it has a smooth or polished surface, of a red or greyish colour, overspread with a discharge consisting of lymph- globules and epithelium scales. Or, (b) the ulcer presents a small circular cup-sliaped cavity, having a smooth, red interior, without granu- lation, and discharging a thin serous fluid, or glazed with a little adhesive lymph, and set in apparently healthy texture. About the end of the first week, and never before the third day, chancre becomes indurated, and circumscribed, like a split pea, by an effusion of plastic lymph beneath its base, and around the ulcer; its coloar now having a fawn hue, or assuming various shades of brown or red, according to the secretion. A single exception is met with in chancre on the glans penis, which rarely acquires induration. It is here simply a spot denuded of cuticle, and having a red, moist, glistening, flat surface, (c) Occasionally, no ulcer is produced, nor perhaps any discoverable l^reach of surface; but induration appears in the form of a hard knot or tubercle, imbedded, and covered with epithelial scales. Diagnostic value of Induration.—When confined to the base of the ulcer, induration of an elastic, cartilaginous hardness, and terminating abruptly, was regarded by Hunter as characteristic of true chancre. Yet he acknowledged that this indurated base is not peculiar, being common to other indolent ulcers. "When affecting the texture around, as well as the base of the ulcer, M. Ricord regards cartilaginous in- duration, thus disposed, as absolutely pathognomonic of " infecting chancre," or that species which accompanies and denotes constitutional syphilis. This kind and form of induration is, indeed, the local ex- pression, by chancre, of the syphilitic blood-disease,—the first secondary symptom. The latter doctrine is supported by the authority of Pro- fessor Bumstead, of New York, and Mr. H. Lee, and is now generally accepted. On the other hand, the fact should not be overlooked that precisely