SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G88 surface, or sometimes having a brown or blackisli appearance, and a softened or soddened consistence, from exposure to decomposing pus- maceration. The cIoaciB are formed apparently, as Troja observed, in consequence of deficient periosteal deposit, in small spaces, here and there, during the production of the new bony case. The apex-tures thus left are Nature's provision for the exit of the enclosed seques- trum of dead bone, and for the free discharge of matter. The sequestrum is of smaller size, in length and breadth, than the involu- crum of new bone, in which, therefore, it lies loose after its detachment. This dimi- nution of the dead portion in length results from ulcer- ative disintegration, or from absorption by interstitial granulations in the living bone, during the process of disjunction; and afterwards, reduction may be effected, in length and breadth, through the medium of granulations, which spring from the whole inner surface of the osteo-plastic cavity — the bone-ends and periosteal sheath ; absoi'ption being aided, perhaps, by the pres- sure also thus brought to bear upon the sequestrum. The doctrine of bone-absorption by granulations, and thence, moreover, the reduction of the sequestrum, after, as well as before, complete separation, was origin- ally maintained by John Hunter; and the results of observation by Velpeau, Lawrence, and Billroth have afforded corroborative evidence ; while Stanley, Gulliver, and Listen were led to the opposite conclusion. Rokitansky attributes any apparent absorption to ichorous corrosion and liquefactive discharge. The influence of close contact—apart from the agency of granulations—is shown by the partial disappearance of ivory pegs, when imbedded in living bone. In consequence of progressive absorption, the imprisoned or attached surface of the sequestrum at length acquires a rough, or worm-eaten, and irregular appearance, and the margins become serrated or spiculated ; resulting from the close adaptation of the encompassing granulations. Hence, any uncovered part of the sequestrum is not subject to absorption, and remains smooth ; so also, when the granulations suppurate, absorp- tion ceases, for then the surface is no longer in contact. Nature thus attempts to bring about extrusion of the sequestrum, as a foreign body. Having separated by ulcerative disintegration, or by absorption * Museum, Koyal Free Hospital.