ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 223 they die faster than absorption can remove them, and then their i mortification—as sloughing of the soft textures or a sequestrum of | dead bone—becomes plainly visible. Certain conditions predispose to gangrenous inflammation. Blood- poisons ai-e constitutional causes of this kind ; as in the production of carbuncle and boil, phlegmonous erysipelas, and the other forms of : gangrenous inflammation, already mentioned in connection with the \ constitutional causes of mortification. Intensity of inflammation has a similar tendency. And lastly, the vascularity of the texture affected; a comparatively avascular tissue readily becoming gangrenous, and especially if looseness of texture pennit the accumulation of serum, as the cellular tissue in erysipelas ; but any texture will be perilled under the pressure of effusion beneath an unyielding investment, as the ten- dinous expansion of the occipito-frontalis muscle. j (3.) Physical and structural conditions of the part relative to mor- : tification in general. i Of physical properties; an unyielding fascia or aponeurosis, e.g., ' the fascia lata, predisposes subjacent textures to gangrene, by pressure ' in the event of any effusion of blood or serum therein. Looseness of j texture also predisposes to this issue, by favouring an interstitial • : accumulation of blood or serum. Traumatic gangrene is determined, ' partly, by these physical conditions impeding the nutrition of the part; although mainly, by the insufficient circulation of blood depriving it of adequate nourishment, and by the damage which the textures have, directly or indirectly, sustained by violence. Structural conditions predispose to mortification; the proportion of blood-vessels having this relation. Both extremes meet. Thus, comparatively avascular textures have a tendency to gangrene ; e.g., the liability of cellular texture to slough, from any cause. Highly vascular textures also have j a similar tendency, apparently by favouring the intensity of inflamma- j tion and effusion; e.g., the skin as compared with fibrous or tendinous textures, which often resist sloughing long after the integument has disappeared in consequence of an extensive bum. Predisposition to gangrene from textural conditions is most con- spicuous when they are co-operative causes. Cellular texture, for ex- ample, being comparatively avascular, as well as liable by its looseness ' i to become the seat of interstitial effusions, most readily sloughs. Causes of Ulceration.—By some variation in the degree of any cause of Mortification, this process of mass-disintegration subsides into that of molecular disintegration. Ulceration is mortification by small in- \ stalments. Consequently, similar conditions of texture predispose thereto. Thus, with regard to vascularity; the less vascular textures are prone to ulcerate, as well as mortify,—e.g., cellular texture and j cicatrix tissue; in this respect agreeing with the liability of the highly '' vascular skin, and mucous memljrane, to inflammation and thence to ulceration. | The comparative liability of different textures to ulceration and mortification, is well shown in the natural process by which a dead I limb is gradually separated from the living tissues; they detaching j themselves from the dead. All, excepting the cellular texture and ! tendons, are severed by ulceration forming a fissure, which is pro- gressively incisive down to and through the bone. The dead skin, vessels, muscular tissue, and bone are severally detached evenly, by ki