THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 86 Inflammation—namely, Inflammatory Fever, Hectic, and Gangrenous- typhoid febrile disturbance. All these states also are considered in their appropriate chapters. Results of Operation.—The object or purpose of any Surgical pro- cedure should be viewed with regard both to its temporary and its per- manent results. An operation may be successful from the one point of view, but not from the other. The unsuccessful results of any Surgical procedure may, perhaps, be reduced to three general heads:—(1) A return of the original condition for which the operation was performed ; (2) the substitution of some new condition, not better, or worse, than the first; (3) the inducement of disease in some distant part of the body. Of the two first modes of unsuccessful results, such instances may be cited as, after amputation of a limb, the return of gangrene in the stump; after excision of a joint, the substitution of a useless limb. The third mode of unsuccessful result is illustrated, after ligature of an artery for aneurism, by the development of aneurism in another part; or after the excision of cancer-growth, the development of internal cancer. Statistics in Sctrgert.—To properly estimate the facts gained by observation, whether in the Science or the Art of Surgery, we must count them. The impressions of experience so called, respecting pathology and treatment, are too vague and indistinct for any trust- worthy conclusions. Accuracy of observation is essential to rehable results, and the number of observations taken is also a very important consideration. Hence, the value of Statistics, or the Numerical method of inquiry; which, by the process of counting, imposes a rigid check upon any dissimilarity of the facts thus enumerated by units, and estimates their evidential significance by their number,— absolute, or relative to other series of facts with which they may be compared and weighed. It is sometimes said of Statistics, that any- thing can be proved by figures, for or against a given question at issue. The fallacy of this assertion is demonstrated by the very process of counting, as the corrective of erroneous data. The numerical method may, indeed, seem dry and unattractive to persons of an imaginative disposition, for its inherent exactitude imposes on such persons a disagreeable restraint. But, as men of Science, and Students or Practitioners of an Art involving the tremendous issues of life and death, truth should ever be our first consideration. And, for the fruits accruing from well-assorted collections of facts, and their comparison, I may point to the very important results which have thus been achieved in many departments of Surgery, as exhibited in the course of this work.