180 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Respecting, then, the earliest appearances of epithelial cancer, the following are most diagnostic. 1. Of the superficial or out-growing, prior to ulceration, they are t)il6S6 I (a.) An outspread swelling arises—say on the lower lip, labium, pudendi, or scrotum; and an unnatural firmness or hardness of the affected skin is perceptible ; but the superficial dimensions much exceed the thickness of this swelling. Its outline is round, oval, or sinuous; and its surface, sometimes nearly smooth, is more often coarsely granulated—like that of a syphilitic condyloma—deriving this ap- pearance from the enlarged and closely clustered papillae. Generally, the surface is moist with an ichorous discharge ; it may, however, be covered with a scab, or encrusted with a soft substance, consisting of Fig. 62.* detached epithelial scales. In most cases, the part is unduly sensitive, and injected with blood. If the papillae become infiltrated, they con- stitute the cauliflower-lilsie mass so characteristic of the ordinary form of epithelial cancer. (Fig. 62.) This mass looks very vascular, is moist with ichor, and covered with pasty cakes of epithelial scales, which beset the interstices of the enlarged papillae. (ft.) Occasionally, the shape of an out-growing epithelial cancer is that of a sharply bordered circular or oval disc, upraised a little above the level of the adjoining skin, or mucous membrane, and imbedded to about the same depth below it. The surface of this disc—usually flat or slightly, concave—is granular, spongy, or irregularly cleft; and its margins are surrounded with healthy texture, which becomes raised and often slightly everted by their enlargement—e.g., many epithelial cancers of the tongue. (c.) Sometimes, epithelial cancer grows out in the form of a cone. * Epithelial cancer of hand; showing the papillary character, from specimen in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's. (Ser. x. i. 6.) The history of this case is in I'ott's Works by Earle, iii. J82. The patient was a gardener, who had been employed in strewing soot for several mornings. The disease was ot five years' duration. ( Paget.)