GENERAL rATIIOLOGY AND SURGERY. 82 genesis. The process of transmission has been already described. But the principal evidence in support of this being the source of pus-cells, may be thus stated. The structural resemblance or identity of pus- corpuscles, and the pale corpuscles of the blood, had long been known. Then the amoeboid activity of pus-cells—no less than that which the pale corpuscles are known to possess—was shown by the original observations of Recklinghausen. But the evidence that pus-cells are pale corpuscles of the blood, rests upon two orders of facts respecting the results of ii-ritation in a non-vascular texture, as the cornea of tlie frog. After a few days, the cornea assumes a yellowish opacity, situated invariably at the periphery of the centre of irritation ; the inference being that the source of any pus-cells must have been extraneous to that centre. Then again, molecular colouring matter in contact with cells is known to be appropriated by them; accord- ingly, Cohnheim introduced aniline blue into the lymph-sac in the frog's back, and the pus-cells in the cornea were found to be tinted with this colour; whereas, on introducing the same material into the cornea, the corpuscles remained colourless. Similar results were obtained from the injection of cinnabar, by Hoffman and Reckling- hausen. Fus-'production appears to be governed by conditions analogous to those which regulate the formation of other inflammatory products, and those of nutrition in general. " Secretory power " would seem to be in operation, regulated probably by " nervous agency," and determined by the "condition of the blood;" possibly also by the " flow of that blood to the part." (a.) Pus has been termed a secretion; and its constant production in connection with certain textures, rather than others, although the blood be the same, plainly indicates that such parts possess and exercise some secretory or separating power. The readiness with which mucous membranes suppiirate is well known. Bronchitis, enteritis, and cystitis are prone to induce purulent sputa, faeces, and urine, respectively; indeed, pus has been found on a bougie five minutes only after it was introduced into the urethra. Other textures are far less prone to suppurate. An incision through the skin and subcutaneous cellular tissue probably unites by adhesion, without any suppuration, or pus is not produced for two or three days. (fe.) The pus-forming po%ver of textui'es is probably regulated, like other secretory power, by the nervous system. In paraplegia, cystitis usually ensues, and this paralytic cystitis produces purulent urine in a more marked degree than cystitis arising from other causes. Injury of the fifth pair of nerves is followed by suppuration of those parts which they supply. Such cases show the cfl:"ect of intercepting the nervous influence to a part; but the nervous system exhibits its influence by inflammation and suppuration of a part through sympathy with some irritation in another and perhaps distant part. Sir Jqmes Paget refers to a specimen in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where extensive deposits of lymph and pus were found in the testicle of a man Avhose urethra contained a portion of calculus impacted after lithotrity. The influence of mental emotion in jiro- ducing inflammation with speedy suppuration is manifested by the following case, and of which there are similar ones. A lady was watching her little child at play, and she saw a heavy window-sash fall