743 DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. (3.) By the Tieel in the axilla. The patient lying recumbent, the Surgeon, sitting on the edge of the couch, plants his foot well up into the axilla, and drawing the limb well downwards, inclines it inwards across the foot as a fulcrum. This also was another method employed by Sir A. Cooper. (Fig. 348.) Instead of the heel, Skey employed a well-padded iron Icnoh, in the axilla ; this fulcrum being furnished with two iron branches, to which are attached the cords for counter-extension, while extension is made by means of pulleys from the wrist or from the arm, the Hmb lying parallel to, and in contact with, the trunk. Fig. 348. This method of reduction maybe necessary in a very muscular subject, or in unreduced dislocations of some duration. (4.) By raising the arm.—The patient lying recumbent, the Surgeon, sitting behind the shoulder and fixing it with one hand, raises the arm up perpendicularly; then bringing it down suddenly to the side, the head of the bone may snap into place. (5.) Dislocation backwards may sometimes be readily reduced by bending the arm backwards, and at the same time drawing forward the upper end of the humerus with the other hand. (6.) Reduction by manijoulation has been proposed, and practised, by Professor H. H. Smith, of Philadelphia. This method is said to be appHcable to nearly all dislocations of the shoulder-joint, but it would appear to be specially eligible in dislocation downwards into the axilla. It consists, "first, in flexing the forearm upon the arm, and at the same moment the elbow is lifted from the body; secondly, in rotating the humerus upwards and outwards, using the forearm as a lever; thirdly, in reversing this last movement by rotating the humerus downwards and inwards, while at the same moment the elbow is brought down again to the side." In dislocation/orwarf^s, this method of attempted reduction would inevitably increase the displacement,— rotation of the humerus upwards and outwards would have the effect of driving the head further forwards. Unreduced dislocations of the humerus are to be overcome by one or other of these methods; generally, by direct extension and counter-