623 FBACTUKE OF THE CLAVICLE. is then carried completely around the thorax, and pinned or stitched to itself on the back. The second strip is now applied ; commencing on the front of the shoulder of the sound side, it is carried over the top of the shoulder, diagonally across the back, under the elbow, which must be drawn well forward and inward, thence across the front of the chest to the starting-point, where it is fastened by pins or thread. A longi- tudinal slit is made in the plaster to receive the point of the elbow. The leverage of the arm, thus brought to bear on the axillary loop of plaster, as the fulcrum, draws the shoulder outwards and backwards—completing the replacement of the acromial fragment. (Fig. 214.) _ Another method, on the same principle, has been devised by Dr. B. M. Moore, of New York. It is " the figure of 8 fro the elbow." The arm is placed in position, by resting the end of the middle finger upon the ensiform, cartilage, with the elbow pressed against the side of the body. Then a single band, two and a half yards long by eight inches wide, is applied thus : the centre being laid under the point of the elbow so as to receive it, the ex- tremity of the band from behind is carried upwards under the axilla, and over the front of the corresponding shoulder, diago- nally downwards across the back to the opposite axilla, and under to the front; the other extremity is brought from the front of the elbow upwards across the back to the sound shoulder, and forward over to the front, where it meets the extremity of the band coming from under the axilla, and the two ends are here fastened together. The forearm, flexed at an acute angle, is supported by a narrow sling under the wrist. Fracture on the scajptdar side of the coraco-clavicular ligament may be treated in the same way as on the sternal side; the axillary pad, however, being of smaller size, the arm bandaged to the side, and the forearm supported in a sling, slightly raising the elbow. In children, the clavicle may be bent, and this condition mistaken for fracture; the signs of fracture, in childhood, are also less per- ceptible, and obscured in a few days by soft union. At the end of a week, I have found such union of a clavicle, in a child two years old. The small, soft callus-swelling around the seat of fracture, which can be easily seen and felt, will at once declare the nature of the injury. Treatment is often very unmanageable, by bandaging ; and the fracture may be conveniently secured by the starched apparatus. Complicated fracture of the clavicle is best treated by the re- cumbent position, without any particular form of mechanical restraint. The injury, additional to the fracture, is generally so severe, as to render the latter of subordinate importance. This is more especially the case when the subclavian vein or the axillary plexus of nerves are implicated. In the event of pneumonia having supervened from fracture of the ribs, associated with fractured clavicle, a thoracic ban- dage would still further embarrass the oppressed respiration. In such