TUM0UB3 OR MORBID GROWTHS. 165 hand, to give some force to such, observations, some entire families are exempt from the disease. Hereditary tendency in relation to Species, is about equally in- fluential in the production of scirrhous and medullary cancer. Constitutional tendency to cancer can only be inferred—yet the inference is strong—from the apparently negative relation of this disease to any external causes. The various presumed, external causes of chronic maladies shall continue in operation in many individuals, for a length of time with every degree of intensity and in all possible modes of combination, without producing the slightest manifestation of cancer; and cancer exercises its most fearful ravages in persons who have never been influenced by any such causes. Excluding, there- fore, external causes, some internal and individual, or constitutional, tendency must have been in operation. Thus, medullary cancer occurs mostly in persons of apparently scrofulous diathesis, although 89 per cent, seem to have good general health at the commencement of the disease; and. in scirrhus, at its first appearance, this proportion rises to 95 per cent. (Paget.) On the other hand, there are reasons for believing that cancer, like syphilis, is primarily local, and only secondarily constitutional. Yel- peau is, perhaps, the leading authority who supports this position; and the reasons adduced are thus stated by Mr. Erichsen in. his work on Surgery:— (1.) Cancerous tumours spring up in individuals who have always enjoyed perfect health, and who, to all appearances, are perfectly well at the time of the occurrence of the disease. (2.) These tumours are not unfrequently the result of some local injury or irritation. (3.) The constitutional health does not, in the majority of cases, appear to suSer until some months have elapsed; when, as the lym- phatics or glands become implicated, or neighbouring tissues invaded, signs of cachexy set in. (4.) If the disease be removed before neighbouring parts have become contaminated, the health, if it have suffered, often improves materially. (5.) The patient remains free from any recurrence of the disease for a considerable period, in the great majority of cases. (6.) In some instances, no recurrence whatever takes place, the disease being eradicated from the system, which could not be the case if it were constitutional. (7.) Recurrence having taken place soon after an operation, it is almost invariably either in the cicatrix or in its immediate neighbour- hood ; owing to cancer-cells which had been widely infiltrated escaping removal, and subsequently developing into a new tumour. Were the disease constitutional, recurrence would be as likely to take place in other parts, or in internal organs, as it does when the operation has been too long delayed. (8.) The same tendency to recurrence after removal, and even to secondary deposit in distant organs, is observed in respect to other tumours which are incontestably, primarily local—e.g., the fibro-plastic and the enchondromatous, and which only become constitutional in their more advanced stages, and in a secondary manner. This last proposition seems to me fallacious ; both the tumours