512 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Femoral Artery—Deep, and Superficial. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The deep femoral artery is very rarely the seat of aneurism. Two cases only can 1 find, recorded; one by Mr. Bryant, in a patient of Mr. Cock's, at Guy's Hospital; the other under the care of Dr. Garrod, at University College Hospital. (Fig. 140.) In the former case, the aneurism was at the origin of the deep femoral; in the latter, lower down. The symptoms of aneurism thus situated, are necessarily somewhat obscured by the depth of the artery. The superficial femoral artery is rarely the seat of aneurism, but far more frequently than the deep femoral; and as affecting this artery, it is known as Femoral Aneurism. The symptoms are more perceptible—the tumour being more superficial; particularly if situated in Scarpa's triangle, the usual situation. Aneurism springing from this—the first portion of the femoral—is unsupported by muscles immediately behind it; thus forming more readily and rapidly, it presents a pulsating tumour, having the characters of aneurism well defined. They are obscured only by the fascia lata, superficial fascia, and in- tegument. Aneurism arising from the second portion of the femoral— within Hunter's canal—is not only more deeply placed, but is supported by the adductor muscles, and resisted by the aponeurotic covering of the canal, and the superimposed sartorius muscle ; as well as by the fascia lata, superficial fascia, and integument. The pulsating tumour, therefore, has characters less distinctly aneurismal. The Pressure-effects of femoral aneurism—whichever portion of the artery be aiSected—will consist in the pain and oedema produced by compression of branches of the anterior crural nerve, and of the femoral and saphena veins. In Hunter's canal, the internal saphenous nerve— a branch of the anterior crural—and the femoral vein, are here peculiarly subject to pressure. Treatment.—Compression oi the common femx)ral, in the groin, should always be tried in the first instance. It has been known to succeed, even when the aneurism has burst and become diffused. If the tumour continue to increase, the establishment of a tolerably free collateral circulation will prepare the way for the next resource. Ligature of the common femoral, in the groin.—The results of this operation are decidedly unfavourable. Secondary h£emorrhage is apt to follow, owing apparently to the contiguity of arterial branches—the circumflex ilii above and the deep femoral below the ligature ; the fi'ee communication of which vessels is, however, requisite for the collateral circulation. Gangrene, on the other hand, is apt to ensue, in the event of the arterial trunk becoming occluded below the ligature, thus shutting off the supply of blood through the deep femoral, as well as through the superficial femoral leading to the aneurism. Of 12 cases, in which the common femoral had been ligatured, secondary hsemor- * Univ. Coll. Mu8., 290.