SYPHILIS. 257 time after contagion. Sucli is Pournier's experience. Puclae could produce auto-inoculation in only 2 per cent. Poissou obtained a similar proportionate result in fifty-two cases of trial; and Laroyeune was un- successful in every one of nineteen cases. Bumstead observes that the failure of inoculation is favourable to the supposition that the sore is a chancre. In the earliest stage of chancre, before its specific action upon the patient's constitution has been developed, the result of inoculation may be a specific hardened sore, accurately resembling the original. So far Mr. Lee concedes the positive value of this test. But that as soon as the specific adhesive inflammation has once taken place in a patient, his system is no longer in the same condition as before ; he is no longer capable of being inoculated, and inoculation, if attempted, in the vast majority of instances, entirely fails. M. Clerc's observations (1855) lead to the conclusion that even the initiatory sore of syphilis is non-inoculable, in most cases. The differential nature of chancre and chancroid can, however, be readily discovered by inoculation. The power of reproduction is inborn in chancroid, and available, therefore, as the test, from the very first formation of lymph, when the chancroid is yet a pustular pimple. Inoculation is the earliest, and the most infallible, criterion of chancroid. What if this method of diagnosis be postponed to a later period ? Even then the open suppurating bubo is a chancroid, and its pus will produce another sach ulcer by inoculation ; not the pus secreted in the cellular tissue around the suppurating gland, but that which issues from the gland itself. Here, then, is an additional positive test, diagnostic of chancroid from the negative answer of chancre. Inoculation should be avoided whenever the patient's constitutional condition is broken down, or the nicer of a phagedaenic character; the site chosen should be some portion of integument not liable to phage- dsena, as the skin on the chest; and the inoculated point should be freely cauterized with nitric acid, as soon as the diagnosis of a resulting chancroid is determined. The little operation is thus described by Prof. Bumstead :—Take a clean lancet, moisten its tip with the purulent secretion, and enter the point perpendicularly with a slight impulse, not deeper than to the vascular layer of the skin; the instrument is then turned once round on its axis, and withdrawn, and any remains of the pus upon the blade is smeared over the orifice of the puncture. No after care is required. Duration of Specificity.—Ghancre retains its specific nature for a considerable period, frequently weeks, sometimes months,—in one of my own cases, probably eight months, during which time the sore can communicate the disease to an unaffected person. This period of statu quo specific," thus of uncertain duration, extends to when the ulcer cleanses itself, begins to throw out healthy granulations, and to cicatrize from its circumference. These, therefore, are the signs of the loss of contaminating power. Bitbo, however large, which has arisen from a chancre when about to heal, is simply a swelling of the lym- phatic gland, which, as Ricord observed, fails to supply virulent matter in the event of suppuration. Chancroid, or the soft, suppurating ulcer, mostly cicatrizes in the course of a few weeks; but the period of repair may be prolonged much beyond, the sore retaining its virulent specificity of local contagiousness up to the last moment of its exist- S