GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 166 adduced being "localized" growths, although the fibro-plastic or myeloid variety of enchondroma is undoubtedly a recurring tumour. External causes.—Injury or irritation, is not found to have more than a limited influence on the production of cancer. Thus, scirrhus of the breast seems to have some such origin in less than one case in six; medullary cancer, however, twice as often—one in three cases; colloid is doubtful in this respect; but epithelial cancer has a traumatic origin most frequently—one in two cases. (Paget.) The causative influence of injury is evinced when cancer-growth is the immediate consequence. Instances of this kind are more often met with in the history of medullary cancer. Or again, a broken tooth scratching the tongue or cheek, may induce epithelial cancer in either of these parts; the friction of a clay-pipe, constantly used, may aifect the lip in like manner; and the irritation of soot in contact with the scrotum or pre- puce appears to induce the well-known chimney-sweeper's cancer of those portions of integuments. Effects of Cancer.—(a.) Locally.—Pain may be regarded as an effect, produced, apparently, by compression of the nerves in, and around, the cancer-growth; by separation of their fasciculi and fibrils with interstitial deposit; and, in the case of scirrhus, by dragging of the nerves as the growth contracts. Pain is, therefore, due rather to a mechanical operation of the tumour, than arising from any vital endowment of the growth itself, which is in fact comparatively destitute of nerves. Encejp haloid cancer, in particular, is of this character; the tumour scarcely seeming to be sensitive, when cut into during a sur- gical operation for its removal. Scirrhus, however, seems more espe- cially to give rise to pain from within itself, the pain radiating thence along the nerves. The kind and degree of pain vary considerably. Lancinating pangs, particularly when the tumour is handled, are commonly experienced in sciiThus. A hot dart, molten lead, and other such expressions are also used to denote both the character and severity of the pain in this species of cancer. The pain of encephaloid is generally less severe ; and colloid is comparatively painless. In cases taken indiscriminately the pain differs ; a dull aching sensation, a feeling of weight and coldness, distressing itching, represent these varieties. The pain varies also in point of date, duration, and constancy. Thus it is not generally of early occurrence: being absent in most cases of scirrhous breast, for the first year or year and a half. Its duration is temporary; occurring from time to time, as when the breast is handled. And cancer, not uncommonly, runs through its whole career without any pain. It is absent in about one-fifth of the cases, including all organs and localities. (Walshe.) The pain is usually proportionate to the rapidity of growth; becoming more severe and persistent when the tumour is inflamed or ulcerating or about to slough, and acquiring the hot burning or scalding character. The Lymphatic vessels, and glands, proceeding from the seat of cancer-growth become implicated at an earlier or later period, and in various degrees, according to the species of cancer. Scirrhus, espe- cially, is thus infective, as shown by the axillary glands when the breast is the seat of disease ; Encephaloid has the same influence in a lesser degree ; Colloid, more slowly, and in the least degree ; but Epithelial cancer is very constantly infective, in about the proportion of one in