445 BURSITIS. of the sac, gradually producing considerable thickening of the wall of the bursa. Within the sac, numerous small flattened and elongated bodies may form, resembling melon-seeds or parboiled rice ; and which result, apparently, from disintegrated fibrinous matter subjected to motion and attrition, or from the detachment of pedunculated fibrinous matter from the interior of the sac. The origin and production of these bodies are thus similar to the formation of loose cartilages in joints, and they gradually acquire a fibro-cartilaginous character. Lastly, fibrinous deposit progressing concentrically, may at length convert the bursa into a solid tumour, having a laminated structure, or leaving a small central cavity, containing a gelatinous fluid. The diagnostic characters of these varied structural conditions is tolerably obvious. Inflammation, followed by suppuration and abscess, sloughing and ulceration, will be severally attended with their usual signs and symptoms. Enlarged burste are chronic indolent tumours ; with distinct fluctu- ation, denoting fluid contents, or having a solid resisting character according to the deposition of fibrinous matter. Thickening of the sac forms a semi-solid tumour, and the production of melon-seed-like bodies yields a crackling sensation on handling the sac, while complete solidi- fication presents a hard elastic tumour. Causes.—Some local iujury, as pressure, friction, or a blow, is generally the cause, whether of inflammation or simple enlargement of a bursa. Occasionally, some constitutional tendency seems to have a predisposing, or possibly productive influence. Treatment.—Inflammation may be subdued by rest, cold or warm fomentations, and topical bleeding. Suppuration having taken place, a free opening must be made and poulticing continued until granulation is established. Chronic enlargement of a bursa yields to various methods of treatment, according to the nature of its contents. An accumulation of serous fluid in the sac may be absorbed by a stimulating application, such as iodine paint, which I prefer. By puncturing the sac and pressure, or by the injection of iodine, adhesion can sometimes be induced; or the introduction of a seton for a few days leads to sup- puration and contraction. Fibrinous matter having been deposited, thickening of the sac, and an accumulation of melon-seed bodies within its interior, may possibly be cured by a seton, inducing discharge and contraction. But this condition, or that of complete solidification, generally necessitates re- moval of the bursa surgically. When fairly dissected out, the disease can never return, and commonly no evil consequences follow this operation. In one case only, after I had thus extirpated an old en- larged bursa patellae, phagedsenic gangrene appeared in the wound, and spread to some distance above and below the knee. But this was, evidently, an accidental coincidence, and no valid objection to the method of treatment. Particular Burs^.—Bursa Patellce.—The bursa situated over the patellfE is liable to the same diseases as those common to all burs«. Inflammation and its consequences, or simple chronic enlargement, not unfrequently occur. " Housemaid's knee," as it is called, is an in- flammatory a,ffection of the bursa patellae (Fig. 106), arising from frequent pressure and irritation by kneeling on a hard surface. But the same condition may be produced in other females and in males,