TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 837 Fig. 453.* ' W. Adams.) concavity backwards; but the Fig. 454.t foot; talifes valgus, or eversion of the foot; and talipes calcaneus, or depression of the heel with elevation of the anterior part of the foot. Varieties of club-foot consist of combinations of two of these forms, the principal of which are—equino-varus, equino-valgus, calcaneo-varus, and calcaneo-valgus. (1.) Talipes Equinus.—Structural Conditions, and Signs.—Certain bones of the tarsus—the astragalus, scaphoid bone, and calcaneum— have undergone alterations from their normal condition. Diminished in size somewhat, the astragalus, in particular, is reduced, its natural articular surfaces for the tibia and fibula are partially deprived of cartilage, and new articular relations have formed posteriorly, more or less in that direction according to the degree of the talipes. The calcaneum may even contribute to this new articulation. The head of the astragalus, dimished in size, has an unusually small articular facet in its connection with the scaphoid bone. The latter bone, also reduced in size but unaltered in shape, is drawn downwards; thus presenting the head of the astragalus prominently on the dorsum of the foot, while a considerable portion of its upper surface has slid from under the tibia. (Fig. 452.) The calcaneum, small, and perhaps articulating with the tibia, has a more limited connection with the cuboid bone; and ; as the latter bone, with the scaphoid, is drawn downwards, the anterior : and upper portion of the calcaneum also projects forwards on the ■ dorsum of the foot. The other bones of the foot, somewhat smaller • than natural, retain their normal characters ; the remaining tarsal and the metatarsal bones conform to the general curvature—an increased convexity forwards, an increased toes are usually extended hori- zontally, and from constantly bearing the weight of the body, the breadth of the fore portion of the foot becomes increased. Thus, then, the heel drawn up, in this form of talipes, brings the tarsus to nearly a vertical line under the tibia, whereby the weight is transmitted to the toes, on which the patient rests in standing or walking. (Pig. 453.) But the fore part of the foot may be completely retroverted, so that the sole forms an acute angle with the projecting heel, and the weight is borne on the dorsum (Fig. 454); the t cuticle there acquiring a thickened, horny character, as if it were on the i sole of the foot. This callosity is liable to ulcerate or slough. The liga- 1 ments are relaxed and shortened, corresponding to the altered relations * Talipes equinus, imlhout paralysis of the extensor muscles. Extension of the I toes upwards, from their metatarsal articulations, on which the foot rests. (From t Talipes equinus, with paralysis of the extensor muscles. Backward flexion < of the toes, from their metatarsal articulations, on whicli the foot rests, f From W. Adams.) ^