DISLOCATIONS OF THE RIBS AND CLAVICLE. 735 The treatment, however, is the same in both, cases. It will be found impossible to replace the head of bone, but rest of the part should be secured by a roller rib-bandage, to fix the chest until any inflammatory swelling has subsided. At the sternal articulations, the vih-cartilages are liable to displace- ment forwards, in advance of the sternum, presenting one or more pi'ojections at the seat of the articulations. This displacement may be accompanied with fracture of the sternum. But, generally, it is the slow result of some habitual muscular action throwing back the shoulders, as by the use of dumb-bells "to open the chest," or of an occupation whereby, in using the a^ms, the ribs are pressed forwards, as in the act of kneading dough. I have known the dislocation to be produced in pigeon-breasted children. Reduction maybe accomplished by pressing the cartilaginous pT"ojection back into place, aided by the patient making a full inspiration at the time, or by bending the trunk laackwards. A compress and rib-bandage are then applied. Dislocations of the Clavicle.—(1.) The sternal end uf the Clavicle may be dislocated in three directions: forwards, in front of the sternum; hacliwards, behind the sternum; and njpivards, or upwards and inwards, above the sternum. (Fig. 340.) In these dislocations, the ligaments are more or less comjDletely torn, -pia 340,* according to the direction and extent of the displacement; but the bone carries with it the clavicular portion of the stei'no- mastoid muscle. Signs.—Dislocation forwards is denoted by a deformity, consisting of the sternal end of the clavicle in front of the sternum, which disappears by drawing the shoulders backwards and returns when such force is removed ; the distance between the acro- mion and middle line is diminished; the head is drawn forwards and turned from the dislocation, in order to relax the sterno-mastoid muscle ; and there is inability to raise the upper extremity. Dislocation haclcwards is denoted by the opposite appearance to the former one, a depression in the situation of the sternal end of the clavicle ; but there may be dyspnoea, dysphagia, obstructed circulation and pain, from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, vessels and nerves, respectively. Several cases are recorded in the "London and Edinburgh Journal of Medical Science," October, 1841. Dislocation upivards is of rare occurrence ; four cases only have been collected by Malgaigne, and a fifth, an extraordinary case, by Hamilton, as described by Dr. Rochester in the "Buffalo Medical Journal." This form of dislocation presents a pro- jection above the sternum—or in the remarkable case alluded to, upon the front of the thyroid cartilage—the sternal end of the clavicle having been thrown upwards; and there is also a corresponding de- pression of the shoulder. Causes.—A fall on the shoulder, anteriorly, or throwing the shoulder * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 1. Dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle, upicards and inii-cmU, with fracture of the first rib close to the sternum. The articular end of the clavicle rests upon tlie concave upper border of the sternum.