SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. 462 ment, remedial only so far as it reduces any excessive force of the circulation. The small and repeated bleedings practised by Valsalva, may be beneHcial in some cases ; but certainly not when pushed to the extreme he recommended; syncope, when the patient attempted to stand, or even on rising in bed. Laxative aperients have also the advantage of preventing any straining effort in defecation. Respecting medicinal measures for controlling the heart's action, I have no authentic information to offer. The therapeutical results of medi- cines having reputed efficacy in relation to aneurism are vague and unsatisfactory. Narcotics may be administered to relieve pain and procure sleep, and thus maintain a tranquil state of the patient. Having succeeded in lessening the force of the circulation, suffi- ciently to diminish the expansive pulsation of the aneurism, are there any known means of directly favouring the coagulation of blood, and the deposition of laminated tibrine, within the sac ? By increasing the quantity of fibrine in the blood and its tendency to coagulate—in short, by improving the plasticity of the blood itself, this indication may be fulfilled. Animal food, therefore, should now be substituted for fari- naceous, and in larger quantity; but the same restriction, or nearly so, should be observed with regard to liquids, and particularly stimulants. This combination of measures, for lessening the force of the general circulation, and then supplying the fibrinous material for coagulation, constitutes the regime originally proposed by Valsalva, and known also as the internal method of treatment. Pathologically correct in itself, it was wrong only in the extreme degree to which he carried it in practice ; but recently, the same method has been rectified and ably advocated by Mr. Jolliffe Tufnell,* and is specially commended by ^Ir. Holmes.t I have practised it, in conjunction with the treatment of external aneurism by compression, in cases of popliteal aneurism. Certain local applications externally are said to aid the coagulation of blood within the sac, but their efficacy is doubtful. Ice enjoys the repute of being thus beneficial; its constant or repeated application is, however, apt to endanger sloughing of the integuments. Its occasional use may relieve pain. But, for this pui'pose, the belladonna plaster, or an embrocation composed of equal parts of oil and of the strong tincture of aconite, form topical appliances which, according to Mr. Erichsen's experience, afford much relief. ii. Mechanical, Q,xidi Operative, resources; obediently to the ^rs^ mode of natural cure. In the event of an endeavour to reduce the force of the general circulation, and thus to favour coagulation in the sac, having proved unsuccessful; recourse must be had, without further delay, to such local measures as may retard the force of the arterial current through the aneurismal artery, exclusively. Mechanical appliances for this pur- pose favourably contrast with any cutting operation. The former mode of treatment anticipates the necessity for obliterating the aneu- rismal artery, and avoids also the danger consequent on any operative procedure for securing the vessel. (1.) Compression of the artery above the aneurism. This plan of mechanical treatment should be guided by two principles. It is un- * " The Successful Treatment of Internal Aneurism." 1864. t " Lectures on the Surgical Treatment of Aneurism." Royal College of Surgeons. Pub. in Lancet, 1S72.