SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,19. t Ibid, 1. 26S. G90 occur. Fig. 309.* Fig. 310.* Partial Necrosis.—V&rious forms of partial necrosis sometimes In the shaft of a long bone, necrosis may be limited to tho Avails, to a portion of bone within the walls, or to the cancellous struc- ture, as a completely central necrosis. Such cases are rare. I shall, therefore, best draw attention to their existence by referring to certain valuable specimens in the Museum'of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and as described in the catalogue, respecting each such form of partial necrosis. (1.) Necrosis limited to the Walls of a long bone.—Sections of a Tibia (Fig. 309), of which nearly the whole length and thickness of the walls of the shaft perished, and were in process of separation from the cancellous and medullary texture, which has preserved its vitality and a nearly healthy condition. The groove formed between the dead and the living bone is filled with soft and very vascular granulations. On the in- ternal surface of the periosteum, spongy and vascular new bone is formed in a nearly uniform layer, to supply the place of that which has perished. The inner surface of this new bone is covered by vascular granulations. The walls of the bone perished after inflammation of the periosteum, produced by the application of nitric acid to a sloughing ulcer in the front of the leg. (2.) Necrosis luitliin the Walls of a long bone.—Section of a Tibia (Fig. 310), in which large portions of the wall are separated after necrosis. The separated Ijortions include only the middle laminge of the wall; the outer lamince are entire, except in so far as they are perforated anteriorly, and the inner lamince appear only somewhat thickened and less compact than is natural. The sequestraa thus lie ifii cavities between the separated internal and external lamina3 of the wall, which cavities open by four nearly round apertures through the anterior and inner wall. The patient was a feeble young woman, twenty-two years old, in whom the necrosis had existed more than a year before she died with pulmonary disease. About six months before her death, the existence of necrosis being suspected, in consequence of the large quantity of pus discharged through two minute apertures in the front of the tibia, a portion of the bone was i^emoved by the trephine, and some sequestro9' were extracted. The patient benefited by the operation for a time; but the openings into the cavities containing the other sequestra remained, and were only narrowed by the growth of new bone around them. The case is related by Mr. Stanley in his " Treatise on Diseases of the Bones," pp. 138-9. In the specimen of necrosis figured from the Museum of the Royal