553 DISEASES OP ABTERIES. the outer side or crossing to that position. The introduction of an aneurism-needle and securing the ligature may prove very difficult, owing to the depth of the vessel. This operation was condemned by Mr. G-uthrie, as "difficult, tedious, bloody, and dangerous;" and he proposed a substitute, which was practised by Mr. Ai'nott in a case where he ligatured the posterior tibial artery for a wound of that vessel, high up. Having applied a tourniquet to the femoral or popliteal, an incision, six or seven inches long, is made down the middle of the calf of the leg, over the skin-wound, as nearly as possible, or leading down to the artery at its wounded point. The gastrocnemius and soleus muscles must be divided freely, their opposed surfaces being recognized suc- cessively as tendinous expansions ; the under surface of the soleus having been reached, the muscles are held aside with curved retractors, and a thin bluish-white aponeurotic septum, between the muscles of the calf and the tibialis posticus, comes into view. Immediately beneath, this septum the posterior tibial vessels and nerve will be found, lying on that muscle. But, as in the arm, the horizontal 'process of the aponeurotic fascia which thus separates the superficial and deep layer of muscles, is commonly very indistinct and indeed merely cellular in the upper part of the leg. Scraping away this thin membrane, the artery is ligatured above and below the wounded point, including, probably, the yense comites and some surrounding muscular tissue. Lotv down, behind the inner malleolus, the artery can be readily secured by an incision midway between the malleolus and the tendo Achillis. (See Fig. 172.) Dividing only the skin, superficial fascia, and aponeurosis, the artery is found with the nerve to its outer side. By extending the foot, and turning it slightly inwards, to relax the flexor and tibial muscles, the ligature can be at once passed and tied. The i^eroneal artery may be reached by an incision along the enter border of the fibula, between it and the gastrocnemius. The flexor longus poUicis must then be either partly divided or drawn outwards, when the artery will be found in the fibres of that muscle and running close under the fibula. The ligature must be passed as best the Surgeon may be able. This operation, like that on the posterior tibial higher up, is more easily described than done. CHAPTER XXYIII. DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Arteritis.—Structural Conditions.—Inflammation of any portion of the ai'terial system produces structural alterations in the coats of the vessel, similar to those resulting from inflammation of any other texture. Increased vascalarity, and interstitial exudation of fibrinous matter, renders the coats of a bright red colour, thickened and pulpy; the