742 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. stiffness, weakness, pain, and swelling of the shoulder-joint remaining, perhaps, for a considerable period, when reduction had been delayed, or attended with much extension, or when the joint had sustained previous contusion. Under these unfavourable circumstances, there is also an increased liability to re-dislocation. Aggravated by its recurrence, the looseness of articulation ultimately may be such that dislocation takes place on the slightest occasion of force in the right direction. In the case already alluded to of an elderly gentlemen, dis- location downwards into the axilla had been overlooked by an Hospital Surgeon in attendance for three weeks ; and, after reduction by Sir William Eergusson, it recurred four times in a period of eighteen months. Upward motion of the arm was afterwards restrained by wearing a belt around the chest, attached to an arm-loop, and the dislocation has not since returned. Treatment.—Reduction may be effected in various ways :— (1.) By direct extension and counter-extension. This method is perhaps most generally applicable. The patient being seated in a chair, a sheet or jack-towel is drawn under the axilla on the dislocated side, around the chest over the opposite shoulder, and attached to some fixed, resisting object, or held by assistants. Extension is made from the arm or wrist, by means of a linen band fastened by a clove-hitch knot. The arm should be drawn out at a right angle to the chest, and extension slowly maintained, by an assistant, or by pulleys, when necessary. The Surgeon placing his knee in the axilla, and depress- ing the shoulder with one hand, while he slightly inclines the arm downwards with the other, the head Fia. 347. of the bone passes into the glenoid cavity with a jerk or snap, an- nouncing the reduction. Extension is discontinued, and the arm brought to the side should be secured by a few turns of a roller around the chest, supporting the elbow by a few turns below. An axillary pad may be advisable in dislocation downwards. Any inflammatory ; swelling about the joint will sub- i side, or can be readily subdued by | cold evaporating lotions. I have I thus reduced nearly all the dislo- ^ cations of the shoulder which have fallen to my lot. But the incon- venience of this method in private practice is the assistance requisite, despite the relaxing influence of choloroform, and its administration would necessitate having another assistant. (2.) By the Icnee in the axilla, reduction can be effected without extension; simply by drawing the arm well down over the knee, as a fulcrum, depressing the shoulder, at the same time, with the other hand. This was one of the methods recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Pig. 347.)