87 INFLAMMATION. getliei' only here and there, leaving intervening pus-producing cavities; a multilocidar abscess is formed. Or, the cavity conti-acts into a long narrow channel, lined with a perfect pyogenic membrane throughout its course, and having an obstinate indisposition to heal; a fistula is formed. It may be convenient to distinguish a sinus by the absence of these characters. The latter is generally said to be distinguished from the former, chiefly, by its having only one opening; a sinus being a long, narrow, suppurating canal, opening externally or internally, and having little disposition to Heal. But any such canal is an incomplete fistula; as may be fistula in ano. Sometimes an abscess, after evacuation, acquires an unhealthy character, and remains without any tendency to heal. The sac secretes a fetid sanious pus, induced probably by the admission of air, or by some constitutional disorder affecting the pyogenic membrane, and the production of granulations is delayed. Or, at a later period, when the abscess is reduced to an ulcer, it, like ulcers arising otherwise, may exhibit an obstinate indisposition to heal. From constitutional causes chiefly, this ulcer may become irritable, inflamed, sloughing, or phagedtenic. The function of pus may be inferred from its relation to the process of healing by suppurative granulation, in a healthy ulcer or sore. The cells of pus are either degenerate or immature granulation-cells. If the former, pus represents the superficial portion of organized granulation- matter, which, having lived its time, passes off, just as the outermost epithelial cells are shed. If immature granulation-cells, pus represents the superfluous portion of organizable granulation-matter, which never reaches maturity. This is the more probable interpretation. Compare pus-cells—as unaffected by acetic acid—(Fig. 21, cells to the left), with, granulation-cells (Fig. of granulation-structure, in this work), and their great similarity or identity will be obvious. As immature granulation- cells, pus ceases to be secreted when the granulations come to the level of the skin, for then, the ulcer being filled up, no more oi'ganizable material is needed. Suppuration may thus be associated with a restorative or reparative purpose; as in the closing of an abscess after evacuation of its contents, and in the healing of open wounds, com- pound fracture, and dislocation. The situations where abscess originates are regulated, it would seem, very much by the different kinds of texture. Rarely, if ever, is abscess formed in fibrous or cartilaginous tissues, nor within any serous mem- brane. The situations where abscess may be found, are very various. It may have extended from its seat of origin to another, and perhaps distant, locality. Abscess by translation, as any such extension is termed, somewhat inaptly, is favoured by various circumstances: by the dif&culty with which pus produced in certain parts, finds its way to the surface; by the comparative facility with which it travels to other parts ; by slow progress of the abscess, allowing opportunity for its extension; and by special circumstances conducing, which are peculiar to each case. Examples of such abscess occur chiefly in connection with the spinal column. Taking them from above downwards; abscess arising from disease of the cervical vertebrae, may present directly forwards behind the pharynx; or it may extend behind the sterno-mastoid muscle to the side of the neck; or into the axilla, or the thorax. From the