ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 215 In a superficial scrofulous ulcer on the hands or feet, excessive crowth of the papillce at the base or borders of the ulcer, gives a re- markably warty character to the ulcer; which often remaining after cicatrization, leaves a coarse, nodular patch of skin, with opaque, thick cuticle. In this particular resembling a papillary epithelial cancer, the diagnosis of this form of scrofulous ulcer may be determined, by the absence of hardness in the granulations or the base, of a sinuous or upraised border, and of rapidity of progress; and by the presence of more than one, perhaps many such ulcers. These warty strumous affections may be cured by repeated applica- tions of iodine-paint. (10.) Cancerous Ulcer.—Already described in this work, as part of the general history of cancer, the characters of a cancerous ulcer are here aUuded to as compared with those of a lupoid ulcer. The scirrhous ulcer is most distinctive. Beginning in the skin and extend- ing down to deeper textures, or commencing subcutaneously—in a cancerous mass, and extending upwards to and involving the skin—the ulcer, formed in either way, presents an irregular cavity, the surface of which is covered with large, hard granulations, discharging a thin, pecuUar smelling ichor; the edges are elevated, thick, and everted, with much circumferential induration. The neighbouring lymphatic glands are, or become, indurated, and enlarged. The ravages of this ulcer are unlimited. Treatment.—See Cancer. (11.) Lupoid Ulcer.—Commencing as a fissure or soft wart, the ulcer formed is an excavated hollow, having, commonly, no granula- tions, the edges sharp and worm-eaten, with no induration around. The lymphatic glands are unaffected. But this ulcer, also, spreads and spares no texture. It is the true Lupus Bxedeus, or the disease known also as "noli me tangere," owing to the frightful appearance which is at length exhibited. This disease commences in the earlier half of life, sometimes in childhood, very rarely after middle age; and females are rather more liable to it than males. It is allied to scrofula. As contrasted with a cancerous ulcer, the differential characters, above stated, were early impressed on my mind by two well-marked cases which I observed when a student at the University College Hospital. The one, an elderly woman—under the care of Mr. Morton —had a large cancerous ulcer of the leg, which presented the appear- ances I have described; the other, a middle-aged man, an ostler— under the care of Mr. Listen—had a large lupoid ulcer of the cheek, with the appearances already noticed,—namely, opposite to those of a cancerous ulcer. Treatment.—Various powerful escharotics have been tried with the view of arresting the progress of a lupoid ulcer, and converting it into a healing condition. Caustic potash is very serviceable, as it readily unites with the tissues. Chloride of zinc, mixed with flour and form- ing a paste by deliquescence, was used in Mr. Listen's case. The mtense pain, for a time, which followed its application, would now-a- days be subdued by the continued influence of chloroform. Subse- quently, poultices help to bring away the slough. Further extension of the ulcer may be thus arrested, and the cavity evince a tendency, at least, to heal. This favourable change took place in the case alluded to, and I have since met with similar instances. Cicatrization may