GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 212 the varicose state of the veins, as the apparent cause in operation, IS an additional and the special object of treatment. An elevated position of the limb to relieve congestion, and an elastic bandage or stocking to equally support the vessels, will prove sufficient for this purpose, in most instances. When the ulcer has healed, it may still be necessary to wear an elastic stocking, as a preventive measure. In more obstinate cases, and with the view of a permanent cure, oblitera- tion of the veins must be resorted to. Curved incisions may be made, free and deep, on either side of the ulcer-margin, according to the method which Mr. Gay originated, and whereby a twofold principle is fulfilled; the destruction of any circumferential or smaller veins, and relief of the tension of the contracted and indurated skin. Ulcers of from one to twenty years' standing have thus been induced to heal, and with a permanently firm cicatrix. But the larger veins may re- quire obliteration. Of the various means devised—and noticed in connection with Varicose Veins—the safest and most successful, in my experience, is that by subcutaneous section of the veins; with the precaution of a twisted suture, for compression, on either side, to stop any communication with the circulation. A hare-lip pin is passed underneath the vein, and another at a point about an inch distant. Care must be taken that tbe vessel be not transfixed, a misadventure easily avoided by dipping the pin, and readily discovered by the escape of a drop or two of venous blood. If the vein be transfixed, the pin should be withdrawn and introduced at another point. A ligature passed round either pin in a figure of eigbt fashion, will compress the vessel sufficiently to cut off all communication with the venous blood in either direction, and thus isolate the portion of vessel be- tween the pins. Division of the vessel in that situation subcutane- ously, as recommended by Mr. Lee, will then more thoroughly insure its obliteration. (See Veins.) Several such interceptions may be necessary at different points in the course of the saphena vein; in which case the highest pair of pins should be introduced first. The pins must be allowed to remain for about a week or ten days, unless the supervention of ulcerative suppuration should indicate the necessity for withdrawing one or more of the pins at an earlier period. I do not find the tendency to slight ulceration of sufficient importance to require the precaution generally recommended, that of protecting the skin with a piece of bougie before applying the ligature. After this operation, in no case have I seen any perilous consequence, such as phlebitis or pyismia, but diffuse or erysipelatous inflammation ensued for a while, in one case. In some instances, after the lapse of a year and a half or two years, occlusion of the vein has still been complete, a permanently successful result which has allowed of active exercise with comfort; in other cases, the varicose condition has returned, as the only unfavourable issue ; while in yet a few, it has remained on the removal of the pins, and a repetition of the operation has altogether failed. Venous haemorrhage, occurring in the course of a varicose ulcer, may be arrested by a compress of lint, secured by a bandage, over the aperture in the vein which has given way; and by elevation of the limb. (6.) Phagedenic Ulcer.—Essentially a spreading ulcer, it is characterized by dusky red discoloration and swelling, with perhaps