TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS* 133 Cyst-formation, whether barren or proliferous.—Three modes of production are tolerably well established ; but no accurate classification of these growths can be determined upon this ground of distinction. Cyst-formation is as follows : — Firstly.—By the dilatation and coalescence of the spaces in cellular tissue, a rude cyst is formed, and afterwards finished off on its internal surface, which becomes smooth, and perhaps lined with epithelium. Thus are formed certain adventitious burste, e.g., the little sac which Hunter first pointed out underneath the skin of an old corn. The simple cyst fashioned from areolar tissue may acquire a proli- ferous power, as witnessed occasionally in adventitious bursse, from the inner surface of which pendulous little polypi sometimes grow. Secondly.—By the dilatation and distension of certain natural cavities are produced retention-cjsts, so named by Virchow. The dila- tation of gland-ducts may thus give rise to cysts. Of this kind of cyst are those sacculated enlargements of the lactiferous tubes, filled with milk or serum, which Sir B. Brodie first described as sero-cystic conditions of the mammary gland. But this disease is perhaps more usually due to another mode of cyst-formation, which I shall describe presently. So also ranula, a cystic swelling under the tongue, may re- sult from the obstruction and dilatation of the duct of the sub-maxillary gland. Natural bursas sometimes enlarge, and become distended with synovia. The bursa betwixt the skin and patella thus enlarged, and known as " housemaid's knee," is a familiar example. Mucous cysts, by enlargement of the Nabothian gland-follicles about the cervix uteri, or of Cowper's glands in the female, situated just within the vagina, are further illustrations of cyst-formation by dilatation and distension of a natural cavity with its own fluid. Fat-cysts are produced in this way, out of the sebaceous and hair follicles, forming common wens. Cysts of the sweat-glands are unknown. Graafian vesicles, by over- growth, are evolved into ovarian tumours. I may here notice certain rare kinds of sanguineous cysts, which, from a case related by Sir James Paget, appear, as he says, to be " dilated portions of blood-vessels shut off from the main streams." Of sanguineous cysts having this mode of origin, one was removed by Mr. Lloyd some years since from a man's thigh. It lay in the course of the saphena vein, but neither that nor any other considerable vein was divided in the operation, or could be traced into the cyst. This cyst was of spherical form, about an inch and a half in diameter, and completely closed ; its walls were tough and polished on their inner surface, it was full of dark fluid blood, and its venous character was manifested by two valves, like those of veins, placed on its inner surface. On one of these a soft- lobed mass, like an intra-cystic growth, is seated. The preparation is in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital. This specimen teaches an important lesson; that a simple cyst formed by the expansion of a natural cavity, may become proliferous, a Boft-lobed growth having sprung from the interior of the cyst; and this truth is confirmed by the proliferous power of the lactiferous tubes when enlarged in certain cases of sero-cystic disease of the breast, and the prolific growth of cells in the parent cysts of an ovarian cystic tumour. Thirdly.—Besides these two modes of cyst-formation, another mode of production has been discovered, chiefly by the observations of Eoki- I