689 NECROSIS. from the living bone through interstitial granulations, the dead and detached portion of bone is reduced in size, and loosened, by absorption, through the medium of encompassing granulations, and subjected to the expul- sive compression of granulation-growfch. When removed, the sequestrum-cavity remains, (Fig. 308.) The involucrum, or sheath of new bone, is the scene of certain formative changes. It increases in thickness, the longer the enclosed sequestrum remains as a source of osteo-plastic irritation; so that, in the course of years, the bony case might become more than half an inch thick. Losing its rough and porous character, it gets smoother and more compact or stronger, yet somewhat thinner; thus altogether more nearly resembling the natural shaft of a long bone. The cloacas, having served the temporary purpose already noticed, be- come smaller; but whether they are ever entirely closed seems doubtful. When the sequestrum has been discharged, perhaps, in the natural course of necrosis, or has been extricated and removed by surgical interference—in either case, the cloacae providing apertures of exit—the osteo-plastic cavity may continue to granulate and ossify, and thus still more com- pletely restore the original substance of the shaft of bone. But whether the medullary canal be reproduced, as after the reparation, of fracture, is as yet undetermined; although, from analogy, this final result is not improbable. If, in the production of the new bone-shaft, any muscles lose their attachments, they regain new points of insertion, and are thus admirably enabled to resume their respective actions. Modifications of Necrosis.—Certain deviations from the normal course of Necrosis—which Prof. Billroth has observed—are worthy of notice; as relating to the detachment of the sequestrum, and the formation of the involucrum of new bone. In young persons, affected with acute periostitis, the epiphyseal cartilages of a long bone may undergo ossification, although rarely, at the upper and lower ends of the bone simultaneously ; but then the sequestrum will be detached very early, before t^e new bony case can have completely formed. If, therefore, the sequestrum were removed at this period, the limb would be weakened, and remain weak, owing to removal of the foreign body, which, as a source of irritation, induces osteo-plastic deposit. Suppivration of an epiphysis is also attended with early detachment of the sequestrum at that end ; and this event may lead to such dis- placement and projection, by muscular action, that perhaps the bone protrudes through the integument; instances of which have occurred, with regard to the femur, at the knee-joint, and the humerus, at the < elbow. In such cases, destruction of the joint will probably bo : inevitable. * Diagram from Billroth. 2 T