GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 304 transformation and disintegration into granular matter; and Cru- veilhier himself pointed out the important distinction between the absorption of pus when 2»'eparecl for absorption, and pus in the con- dition of _ pus, at once entering the circulation. In the former case, no constitutional disturbance follows; in the latter, pyasmia. To allow of the absorption of pus in an unaltered condition, the ahsorVmrj vessels must have been laid oj^en ; the veins, lymphatics, or both, must have undergone solution of continuity; and this, either by a wound without subsequent repair, or by rapid sloughing, without time for closure of the vessels by the adhesive process. They therefore remain open during suppuration, and their mouths—so to speak—being in immediate contact with pus, allow of its admission and transmission. This mode of purulent infection accords with Mr. Listen's observa- tion, that " when from any cause the extremity of a large vein in a Avound is not closed—when it is not plugged iip by plastic matter, pus seems to enter it readily, and by mixing with the circulating fluid, causes dreadful mischief. Great constitutional disturbance accom- panies the purulent deposits which follow in the soHd viscera and in the joints." In other cases these results are preceded by rapid slough- ing. A wound suddenly loses all power of healing by adhesion, and any adhesions that may have formed give way, the granulations be- come pale and flabby, and true pus is no longer discharged; the surface acquires a mottled brown colour, and by this time symptoms of pyaemia have commenced. Bums, attended with extensive suppu- ration, are not unfrequently followed by pyaemia; and certain sjiecific diseases, as glanders, in like manner, threaten purulent infection by absorption. Occasionally, suppurative phlebitis advances so far as to allow of absorption through a vein having burst, and opened into an abscess. In one case, the femoral, popliteal, posterior tibial, and peroneal veins communicated with abscesses (Cruveilhier). In another case, the internal jugular vein opened into a neighbouring abscess (Travers). (2.) Thrombosis—Leucocytosis—IcJwrrlicBmia or Seijticcemia.—These three pathological conditions are here grouped together, as represent- ing—according to Virchow's observations—the diiferent sources and kinds of blood-infection, which severally, or in association, constitute what is commonly called Pyaamia; a condition, therefore, which may be complex, and certainly is not thus regarded as one of lyurulent infection. Thromhosis. — A Thrombus, consisting of fibrinous coagulum, formed within a vein, is liable to undergo softening and disintegration ; and fragments of variable sizes, entering the blood-cun'ent (Fig. 80), are carried in the course of the circula- tion, through the lai'ger veins issuing in the vena cava to the right cavities of the heart, and passing thence into the pulmonary artery, they may become * Diagram, from Virchow. Fig. 80.*