SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 750 closed the neck of the radius, but its attachments to the ulna were ruptured, and it had become firmly united to the humerus on either side of the dislocated bone. Accordingly, the movements of pronation and supination could not be performed. The ulna allowed of flexion and extension through about a fourth of the natural extent of these motions. _ The outer condyle of the humerus is altered in shape, from the deposit of new bone. This dislocation had existed for about two years, and was caused by direct violence, the elbow having been struck Fig. 356.* Fis. 357.t Fig. 358.1 by a stone. Incomplete dislocation, as occasionally happens in children, may not be attended with rupture of the annular ligament. (7.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, forwards, is relatively more common than backward dislocation; although Boyer, Velpeau, Chelius, Gibson (of Eichmond), Va., B. Cooper, and other Surgeons of large experience maintain the contrary. The head of the radius lies in front of the humerus, and generally somewhat outwards. (Fig. 357.) The anterior and external lateral ligaments, with the annular, are usually more or less torn. Sometimes, the two former are alone broken, the annular ligament also being sufficiently stretched to allow of complete dislocation ; or, the anterior and annular having given way, the external lateral remains intact. In the specimen I have figured, dislocation of the head of the radius forwards was complicated by fracture of the ejiipliysis of the olecranon, and fracture also of the ulna below its middle. The dislocation was compound, a large lacerated wound having been caused by the passage of a carriage-wheel over the arm, in the person of a child two years old. Death occurred from pyasmia. (8.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, outwards, is a modification of, if not consequent on, forward dislocation, or, perhaps, backward disloca- tion. The head rests on the outer side of the external condyle. It is a very rare displacement, Denuce having collected only four examples, unaccompanied with fracture. In the annexed illustration, thenxdial dislocation outwards is associated with displacement of the ulna backwards and outwards, and fracture apparently of the inner condyle. (Fig. 358.) * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 109. t IWd. 1, 110. X St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 41.