277 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. skin, by sore throat, iritis, and so forth. The impending evil is sure to supervene, in some form; the storm is sure to burst. There follows the indurated or infecting chancre, says Ricord—a blood diathesis pregnant with misfortunes and tempests. An infallible explosion of constitutional affections will ensue. But if some such manifestations are inevitable, in the natural course of systemic infection, all experience concurs, I believe, in the possibility of averting them by medicinal intervention. By what particular pre- ventive measures ? Here opinious differ widely. Merciiry has long been, and is still generally, credited with the most potent prophylactic influence. The symptoms of its protective opera- tion, constituting mercurialization, and the modes of administering mercury, will be noticed presently, in connection with the curative efficacy of this medicinal agent. It appears indisputable, that if mer- cury be not preventive of systemic infection, no other known medicinal agent possesses such influence in any perceptible degree. The chief difficulty attending investigations with reference to this question, is first to determine the natural course of local syphilis, in its different forms—whether or not systemic infection would assuredly supervene; and thus, with corresponding certainty, to estimate the positive and negative results of mercurialization, or of other supposed protective measures. Remedial Treatment.—Mercury holds the first place, and iodide of potassium the second, in the present anti-syphilitic materia medica. It would be impossible aud useless to enumerate all the various remedies for constitutional syphilis, which have been tried and failed, more-or less entirely. Such are sarsaparilla, guaiacum, opium, conium, juniper, sassafras, dulcamara, etc. Mercury seems to produce a systemic condition which is antago- nistic to, and incompatible with, constitutional syphilis, in most of the forms of its manifestation. And, indeed, this positively remedial operation of mercury is rendered equivocal only by the fact that the natural tendency of syphilis to recovery requires further clinical ob- servation. The sym,ptoms of the systemic influence of mercury, and of its suffi- cient operation remedially, are, a slight tenderness of the gums adjoin- ing the teeth, with, perhaps, a slightly increased flow of saliva, fcetor of the breath, and a coppery taste in the mouth. But this degree of salivation must be maintained, until any secondary symptoms, whether as regards the skin, the throat, or the eyes, have entirely subsided; including also induration of the primary sore. Ifot until then can mercury be safely discontinued, with a view to the non-recurrence of secondary symptoms. The administration of mercury is a matter of equal importance, and scarcely less so, the hind of mercurial preparations employed. It may be introduced into the system, through the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, by pills or solution taken internally ; or through the skin, by the rubbing in of ointment—inunction ; or by exposure to vapour, known as fumigation, or the mercurial bath ; or by inhalation. Sig- mund advocates hypodermic injection. Blue pill—pilula hydrargyri—from three to five grains, two or three times a day; or calomel, a grain or more, in the form of a pill, and taken as often ; have long been favourite forms of administering mer-