147 TUMOUBS OR MORBID GROWTHS. mental conclifcions ; and this resemblance extends to the myeloid variety of enchondroma. Blood-vessels, however, may be found permeating the inter-cellular fibroid matrix, which are not present in normal carti- ja.o-e—a distinctive structural cha- racter. (Billroth.) The diversity of appearance presented under the microscope, by adjoining portions of the same enchondromatous growth, in regard to its structural elements, is peculiar to this kind of tumour among non-malignant , or innocent tumours; a diversity . of elementary forms which pre- ' vails in only one other kind of ; growth,—cancer. Situation.—Cartilaginous tu- 1 mour is most frequently connected \ with the bones and joints; especially those of the hand, i.e., phalanges : and metarcapus; the corresponding bones of the foot, particularly the 1 last phalanx of the great toe; the lower end of the femur, neighboui'- ^ \ ing end of the tibia; the humerus, scapula, sternum, ribs, ilium, and i cranium. In the sheaths of tendons it has also been known to occur. i 1 Apart from bone and cartilage, enchondroma may form in the parotid i. gland, testicle, mammary gland, ovary, lungs, and in the subcutaneous | ,i areolar tissue. (Rokitansky.) This kind of growth is not unfrequently solitary, excepting in con- : nection with the bones of the hands or feet, where several may co-exist. Origin.—In connection with bone, cartilaginous tumour begins most c commonly at an early period of life; some, on the hands, in infancy, i c others, more often, between childhood and puberty. Their beginning i i in later life is, however, not very rare, even on the bones ; and in other | parts they commence, usually, in full adult or middle age. Inheritance, i 0 or injury, may have some influence in the production of this tumour, pparticularly when connected with bone. Course.—The influence of a cartilaginous tumour is purely local and i Dmechanical. The rate of growth is uncertain; generally slow, occa- s sionally rapid; or the tumour sometimes develops rapidly after havin >• bbeen stationary for a period of many years. Recurrence is very iiimprobable, unless in the case of a soft enchondroma. j Varieties, and Diagnosis.—The consistence of an ordinary cartila- '-•ginous tumour is liable to undergo remarkable changes. Fibrous transformation may be met with. A species of ossification sometimes takes place, beginning either on the surface or within the substance of the tumour. Again, the whole tumour may soften and feel like a ' fatty growth, or a mass of colloid cancer; or ossific nodules may soften and feel like a group of cysts. Such are the most important points of apparent resemblance between the cartilaginous tumour and other * Cells, and inter-cellular substance or stroma, of a cartilaginous tumour, from ' the phalanx of a finger. Many of the cells are only drawn in outline; some of them 1 present double or triple contour lines; most of the nuclei are large and granular. The groups of cells are intersected by bands of tough fibrous tissue. Magnified I ibout 100 times. (Paget.) I