GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 206 • Op. cit, p. 49. Its separation occasions the first loss of substance; subsequently, mole- cular disintegration continues the process of ulceration; for, as Wal- lace * observed, if a venereal ulcer be examined with accuracy, a red margin is seen, and frequently on the inner side of this margin a white line ; the red margin in advance denoting the inflammation which pre- cedes ulceration, and the white line within, the texture which was red, but is now vrhite, having been converted into a slough hefore lique- faction and consequent separation. Minute sloughing, occasionally recurring on the surface of a venereal sore during the progress of ulceration, again suggests the true explanation of this process; mole- cular disintegration of the textures, being now and then exaggerated to visible sloughing of portions of them, declares the sameness of the process. Degeneration precedes the disintegraj;lon, when consequent on in- flammation. The degeneration connected with inflammation, unat- tended with ulceration, is usually fatty. Thus it takes place in muscles, as shown by Virchow's observations, and perhaps in muscular tissue of the involuntary order, e.g., the heart, as in a case of fatal traumatic pericarditis examined by Mr. Paget; in bones, in the Hver, and the kidneys, as shown also by Virchow; in the cartilages, as noticed by Redfern; and in the cornea, by Strube. Calcareous de- generation may be the prior textural change. It takes place in chronic rheumatic arthritis; with inflammation of the laryngeal cartilages; and the formation of imperfect dentine, with inflammation of the tooth- jjulp, is, perhaps, another illustration. Cell-infiltration of the surrounding tissue, with hypersemia, usually also precedes the enclosed disintegration of tissue. (Billroth.) The proper discharge from an ulcer—the product of ulceration, not that of a granulating sore—is ichor, the nature of which is not well understood. Iclior is usually a thin sanious fluid, colourless or slightly yellow; structureless, but mixed with exudation, pus, and blood corpuscles, and with the disintegrated matter or debris of the textures. Its chemical composition, as to the essential constituents of this fluid, is unknown. Its chief property is corrosiveness; the operation of ichorous discharge maintaining and extending ulceration. Diagnostic Characters of Ulcers.—An ulcer differs widely in appear- ance. Ulceration forms a chasm of very variable extent and depth, from the slightest abrasion of the integument to the deepest cavity down to and into the bone ; its shape circular, crescentic, or irregular ; it is found less frequently bare, than accompanied with sloughy por- tions of tissue, or with granulations of some description, overspreading the whole or part of the surface. The circumferential margin of the ulcer varies in thickness, and in direction; being turned inwards and perhaps undermined, everted, irregular, or tolerably even ; it may be hard or soft; its colour and that of the surface may be red, dusky brown, livid, or otherwise shaded; while the ichor or discharge varies greatly in quantity and quality from the typical characters already stated, through every description of mixed discharge, replaced hy healthy pus. The integument around may be healthy, inflamed, indurated, csdematous, or show pigmentary discolouration.