SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 440 interval between the ruptured ends of muscle or tendon. Some dis- colouration may accompany the former change, or any extravasation of blood incident to the injury. Causes.—Muscular contraction is the immediate cause of rupture far more frequently than external violence. Age predisposes, by re- ducing the elasticity of muscular texture in common with that of all textures. This lesion therefore, occurs most frequently in persons of middle life, and who are sometimes wont to undertake feats of sudden exertion beyond their strength, in running, jumjnng, dancing, or lifting a weight. Degenerative changes will also predispose; and thus the rectus abdominis muscle has been found to have undergone fatty degeneration in some cases of its rupture. I am not aware of such predisposing conditions having been noticed in connection with the rupture of tendons. Course, and Terminations.—(1.) Reparation ensues, and readily, in most cases. It has been traced by Paget and Adams in rabbits, and by the latter observer in the human subject. The process is the same essentially, and alike after subcutaneous division or rupture, as fol- lows :— Separation of the ruptured extremities of a tendon, e.g., tendo- Achillis, takes place to a very variable extent; in an adult, from one to two inches; in an infant, about half an inch. The upper portion is drawn upwai'ds by contraction of the muscle, and the lower portion is drawn downwards, according to the mobility of the ankle-joint and position of the foot. Similar circumstances limit the separation of the divided extremities of tendon in all cases. The separated ends still remain indirectly connected with each other through the medium of the cellular sheath of the tendon, which remains almost intact, as a tubular sheath. Blood, in very small quantity, is generally effused within the sheath, and adheres to the upper and lower extremity of the tendon, principally to the upper. But if the blood be in such quantity as to fill the sheath and infiltrate the surrounding tissues, reparation is retarded and rendered less perfect. Increased vascularity of the sheath marks the commencement of the true reparative process; this vascularity extending to the subcutaneous cellular tissue and fat. Reparative blastema is effused into the meshes of the cellular sheath, as a matrix, which thus becomes succulent, as well as vascular; the infiltration may also spread into the surrounding cellular texture, and obscure the gap in the divided tendon. This blastema is developed into fibres, through the medium of oval nuclei; unhke inflammatory lymph in open wounds, which is developed into fibres through nucleated cells, transition forms being found in the shape of elongated cell-fibres. The nucleated blastema would seem to undergo transition by elongation of the oval nuclei, and their arrangement in parallel linear series ; presenting a fibrillated, and ultimately a more distinctly fibrous ap- pearance, under the microscope. Capillary blood-vessels are formed in the connective tissue thus produced. The divided ends of the old tendon take no active part whatever in the reparative process during its earlier stage, and have but slight con- nection with the new material when first formed. A little later, their square surfaces and sharp edges become somewhat rounded, and their substance somewhat softened. Enlarging, and evincing a disposition to split, thin streaks of new material, greyish and translucent, are