GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 41S of the ball may also show that bone baa been struck; but only when it is flattened at its conical point, or deeply furrowed on one side, can the inference be warranted that the missile impinged directly, in such case producing fracture, with extensive comminution; whereas, an oblique stroke, grazing the bone, may not cause fracture, or if so, without comminution. In connection with this examination of the ball, the possibility should not be overlooked that similar alterations of size and shape may have been produced by impingement against some hard substance, before entering the body; as by striking a button, or a sword, upon the person of the wounded man. In com- minuted fracture, any loose fragments of bone should be removed. Ckinpowder grains, scattered beneath the skin, appear as black specks, and are perceptible to the touch; they may be picked out with the point of a probe, though rather firmly imbedded. If allowed to remain, these granules induce ,3ome redness and swelling, followed perhaps by suppuration and their discharge. But, usually, a pointed marking remains—^the part is tattooed. The grains can be disinterred only by incision with a sharp-pointed bistoury, and even then the stain left is never effaced. An ordinary gunshot wound, having one or two, possibly more, openings, with an intermediate line of texture about to slough, is a kind of lesion which requires little or no external dressing. The aper- tures may be protected from exposure to dirt by corresponding pieces of wet lint, or when fresh water cannot be procured, as perhaps at sea, simple cerate on lint vsdll be a sufficient substitute; but any restrictive dressings, which would preclude the escape of sloughs and the discharge of pus, are altogether at variance with the suggestions of pathology. Aja. irregular and lacerated wound, as by a piece of shell, may need such dressings, but merely so as to adjust and retain the textures in position. Or, during a journey by land, as when recently wounded men are transferred to some distant hospital, their wounds, tender and irritable, may be protected; a broad compress of cotton or other soft padding, applied over the dressing, and lightly retained by plaster, will prevent any chafing of the clothes or other injury, and also afford great comfort. (6.) The accompanying inflammation and tension with severe pain are perhaps best moderated by warm water fomentations; but the choice of warm or cold and evaporating applications, must be guided by experience and trial in each case, and especially by the sensations of the patient, rather than by any pathological consideration at present known. TJarly and free incisions may be requisite to relieve tension and thence the accompanying constitutional disturbance, and to give free vent to matter which otherwise accumulating would burrow and dis- organize the part. This relief of tension will also limit the sloughing. The irrigation of cold water has sometimes proved very beneficial, apparently in cleansing the wound of any excessive discharge, or decomposing texture, and thence also in the prevention of pyemic infection. Subsequently, the process of healing by granulation and cicatrization guides and regulates whatever slight assistance may then be necessary on behalf of reparation. Of the untoward events to which a gunshot wound, in general, is liable; secondary haemorrhage is one. It is especially apt to occur when the sloughs loosen and separate—about the fifth or sixth day;