TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 145 first stage, presents the external appearance and general characters of its minute structure it consists essentially Fig. 44." fibrous tumour. But m of fibre-cells,—cells elon- gated and attenuating in- to white fibres, mixed with nuclei; thus repre- senting another develop- mental stage of healthy fibrous tissue. (Fig. 44.) Not affecting parts con- tiguous or remote, the recurring fibroid variety has emphatically, as its name would suggest, a tendency to return again and again, in situ. Moreover, in this its second stage, it successively assumes the appear- ance of encephaloid cancer; having now become soft, bloody, and fungoid; but retaining its former structiiral characters, and vital sig- nificance, which is only somewhat less than that of encephaloid cancer. It will, therefore, be observed that the fibrous tumour, and recur- ring fibroid in its first stage, possess the same physical characters, conjoined with a different structure ; and, conversely, recurring fibroid tumour, in its first and second stages, presents dissimilar physical characters, associated with the same essential structure. Origin.—Both the recurring varieties of fibrous tumour usually begin between youth and middle age, very rarely either in childhood or in advanced life. Treatment.—Fihrous Tumour.—Excluding this form of growth in the uterus, excision is still the only known remedy. Considering the large size to which the tumour sometimes attains, and especially the irregular shape which it acquires by adaptation to the parts around, the operation should be performed early. It is, however, accomplished less readily than that for a fatty, or even a fibro-cellular, tumour. Tet a thin capsule defines, and but loosely attaches the tumour to surrounding parts, from which it can be easily split; and the hemor- rhage is inconsiderable, as pertaining to the tumour. In connection with bone, the attachment is very close, and the basic portion of bone will probably have to be removed. Enucleation, or simply turning the tumour out of its bed, is available in some instances ; chiefly for the removal of uterine fibrous tumours. Recurrence, after either mode of operation, is very improbable. Recurring Fibroid, and Fibro-nucleated Tumours.—The treatment of both these recurring varieties of fibrous tumour is governed by the same general considerations. They are not influenced by any known medicinal agents, except perhaps the first-named variety of this growth. Iodide of potassium in large doses continued for several weeks, seems to have prevented the return of recurring fibroid tumour, in cases observed by Dr. Esmarch of Kiel. Excision is the only other resource. The size and often rapid growth of these tumours are urgent con- siderations. The operation must be freely performed, to insure, if possible, total extirpation of the tumour, which, however, is localized, though apt to return. Haemorrhage may be profuse. * Structural elements of recurrent fibroid tumour. (J. Birkett and Wilks.) Trans. Path. Soc. vol. vi.