82 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY, tion and stertor, not by any mechanical action on this part of the larynx, for the base of the tongue and hyoid bone remain unmoved in position. It would appear that such traction operates by reflex action through the medium of the nervous system, but whether by inducing or relaxing muscular contraction in the larynx, is uncertain. Cardiac Syncope always occurs sudderfly. The patient, after a few inspirations, suddenly becomes pale and faint, the pulse beating almost imperceptibly for a few moments, and then ceasing, although the respiration may continue; death taking place by paralysis of the heart. This organ may itself be healthy, but more frequently it will be found to have undergone fatty degeneration. Goma presents the same appearances as asphyxia, but without failure of the heart's action. The face becomes livid, the breathing stertorous, and the body convulsed; the heart continuing to beat up to the last, as death results from congestion of the brain. This mode of death occurs mostly in epileptics, and in persons affected with uraemic blood-poisoning from old-standing renal disease. These three modes of death are referable generally to the incautious administration of chloroform; whether as regards an excess of chloro- form in proportion to the admixture of air, or the prolonged inhalation of this anaesthetic agent. Persistent Sickness is another occasional cause of death ; but it occurs after the administration of chloroform, and seems to be a conse- quence of some idiosyncrasy of the individual. I have only known one case, death having occurred from the exhaustion of continued sickness for four days after amputation of the thigh for encephaloid cancer of the knee-joint, in the person of an otherwise apparently healthy young woman. In another case, after excision of the knee for scrofulous dis- ease, in the person of a young woman, sickness set in and continued for a week, but it was subdued by the hypodermic injection of morphia, while life was sustained by nutritive enemata. The after effects of chloroform may, however, relate to the lungs or to the brain; congestion of one or other of these organs being attended with the unfavourable or even dangerous symptoms of a tendency to asphyxia or perhaps pneumonic dyspnoea, or of headache, tending perhaps to apoplectic coma. Treatment of an Overdose of Chloroform.—The indication to be ful- filled will vary according as the symptoms, or apparent mode of death, arise from asphyxia, or from cardiac syncope; the object being to re-establish the respiration, or to stimulate and restore the heart's action and the circulation. But in either case, the following directions should be carried out immediately:— The administration of chloroform must at once be discontinued. Firm traction of the tongue must be immediately had recourse to, this being effected by seizing the tip of the tongue with fingers or forceps and drawing it well forward out of the mouth. Air must be allowed to circulate freely around the patient, by open- ing the nearest window and the withdrawal of bystanders. The chest, exposed and free of constriction, should be whipped or flagellated with a wet towel in order to stimulate reflex respiratory action. This failing, artificial respiration should be resorted to; the best mode being compression with the hands just below the sternum, by a