715 DISLOCATION. shoulder-joint, as compared with fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus. When fracture exists, the reduction of displacement bj extension of the limb, and the immediate return of displacement on leaving the limb to itself, will best distinguish this injury from dis- location, as a general rule. But dislocation may co-exist with fracture near the joint, as rare forms of double injury; principally in the shoulder, wrist, and hip. Then, again, as to alteration of the length of the limb; elongation is always peculiar to dislocation; shortening may, however, be due to unimpacted fracture with displacement. Fracture may, thus far, simulate dislocation upwards, in orbicular dislocations; or dislocation, forwards or backwards, in hinge-joint dislocations. But it is only in such directions of displacement that shortening of the limb can be equivocal. The direction or attitude of the limb is almost always peculiar to dislocation. Lastly, the crepita- tion and mobility of fracture are both absent with dislocation. Tonic muscular contraction, whereby an articular displacement becomes fixed, proceeds slowly; and immobility, therefore, can scarcely be regarded as an early sign of dislocation. In one case, a dislocation of the femur into the foramen ovale was examined by Sir A. Cooper, a few minutes after the accident; the limb was still very movable, and continued so for the space of nearly three hours, when it became fixed. Paralysis may be attended with such muscular relaxation as to allow of free movement, in examining a limb with dislocation. But if the physical signs of Dislocation, taken severally, are thus insufiicient; collectively, they cannot fail to establish the diagnosis of this injury. Causes, and Effects of Dislocation.—Dislocation is produced, in general, by external force, suddenly applied. Predisposing causes are, however, very influential. Some such cases are functional actions depending on anatomical conditions; as the shape of the articular surfaces allow- ing a free range of motion, laxity of the ligaments retaining them, and the powerful action of many muscles on a long lever-like bone. All these predisposing conditions are combined in the shoulder-joint, and less so in the hip. Hinge joints, being more favourably circumstanced ana- tomically, are less liable to dislocation. Other predisposing conditions are ac- quired by disease; and these also have reference to the cartilage and head of the bone, which may be destroyed by ulceration and caries ; to the ligaments, as loosened by this process (Fig. 332) ; or to those muscles which naturally aid in retaining the articular surfaces in apposition, but which may have become wasted and enfeebled, or paralyzed. Dislocation is attended with more or less shock, followed by re- action ; or the latter is sometimes accompanied with exhaustion, this ♦ St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 24. Elongation of capsule of hip-joint, to the extent of from four to five inches, with a tuft of filiform processes. Cavity of the acetabulum nearly obliterated. Head of the femur partially absorbed, and the round ligament has disappeared. See also " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxiv.