FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. 631 muscles ; and the more so in proportion to the obliquity of tlie fracture from above diagonally across tbe bone. The u]pper fragment may be slightly everted. A projection, corresponding to the lower end, is most perceptible on the inner aspect of the arm; with an inward inclination of the humerus. The other signs and symptoms—mobility, crepitus, shortening, pain, and powerlessuess—are similar to those of fracture above the insertion of the deltoid. Causes.—Violence, directly or indirectly applied, is generally the cause of fracture in both these portions of the shaft. Powerful muscular action has, however, been known to occasion fracture, usually transverse, and without displacement. Treatment.—The ends of bone having been adjusted by gentle extension, three or four splints should be applied, so as to nearly surround the arm, and then be retained in position by a bandage. Bandaging the hand and forearm will, as usual, be a proper precaution against oedema; and a sling is used to suspend the forearm, not to elevate the elbow, which, hanging down, tends to prevent the recurrence of displacement. Lonsdale's extension-apparatus is one of the many contrivances which have been devised to maintain extension in fracture of the humerus. It consists of a shaft surmounted by a crutch for the axilla, and which is worked by a screw acting on a vertical slide, the lower end of the shaft being curved to receive the elbow. I have had no experience of the use of this instrument. Malgaigne observes that permanent extension is a resource always dangerous, often useless, and which demands in its application much caution and watchfulness. Union by bone is the common result, although both Malgaigne and Hamilton concur in the greater relative frequency of fibrous or of non-union than after fracture of the shaft of any other bone. Generally there remains slight ovei'lapping or angular deformity out- wards. This will be proportionate to the obliquity of the fracture, or when comminuted; such displacement will be inevitable, however care- ful may have been the surgical management of the injury. Fracture op the Lower Articular End op the Humerus.—(1.) Transverse Fracture of the Loiver End.—Supra-condyloid Fracttire.—In this fracture, considerable displacement of the lower or articular frag- ment backwards, carry- ing with it the forearm, is produced by the action of the triceps muscle; and a corresponding displace- ment forwards of the lower end of the shaft of the humerus. (Fig. 224.) The deformity, there- fore, consists of a projec- tion posteriorly and an- teriorly, which resembles dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards ; bat the mobility and crepitus, on extending the forearm, and return of the displacement on relaxation, distinguish these two forms of injury—fracture of the humerus transversely, near the elbow-joint, and dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. Their diagnosis is obviously most important. * A. Cooper.