416 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the Peninsular War, the loss after secondary amputations of the upper extremity was, as compared with the primary, as 12 to 1; and of the lower extremity, the loss was three times as great. As the result of a very complete statistical inquiry. Dr. Stone, of the Bellevue Hospital, New York, arrives at two conclusions:—That, with regard to the upper extremity, primary amputations are to be preferred, both in military and civil practice, being more successful than secondary in both ; and that in the lower extremity, primary amputations are three times as successful as secondary, in mihtary practice. (N.T. " Journal of Medicine.") Comparing amputation, both primary and secondary, with no amputation—an attempt to save the limb—it would appear that the risk of failure or the relative mortality is at least equal ! This conclusion is supported by Bilguer, and by Malgaigne's experience in Poland, where—in an army of 80,000—after amputation of the lower extremitity, not one case survived. Immediate amputation—• without any delay, if possible—offers the advantage of performing the operation in the absence of shock. This favourable opportunity would appear to be due to the elation of the soldier "while in heat and mettle," as Wiseman suggested ; and the beneficial influence of this state has been recognized by Pare, Larrey, John and Charles Bell, Hennen, Guthrie, and other surgeons of experience; and which was verified by not a few instances during the Crimean campaign. Hamilton concedes the advantage of immediate amputation in some cases of severe injury to a limb ; as when there is uncontrollable or recuning haemorrhage, or if there be intense or irrelievable pain, from displaced spiculae of bone which cannot be extracted ; and that this early period of operation will always be suitable for all the smaller amputations, as of the fingers and toes. Intermediate amputation—in the period between that which is either primary or secondary—is now generally acknowledged to be the most unfavourable time ; that interval not being safer than within the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours, when shock has passed off—the period for primary amputation; but which is succeeded by congestive infiltration or acute inflammation ; and the consequences of which in suppuration and exhaustion are apt to render secondary amputation so disastrous. The seat of amputation should always be guided by the cardinal rule of preserving as much of the limb as possible, having regard to the nature and extent of the injury, not only for the formation of a more useful stump, but also in relation to the safety of life. The nearer to the trunk, the greater the danger of amputation for gun- shot injury, in common with other injuries, and especially when the lower extremity is submitted to the operation. Thus, amputation through the thigh, in its upper third, is most fatal; the death-rate rising to 86 per cent., or even higher. This was alike the experience of English, French, and Russian surgeons, during the Crimean War; and it was confirmed by the results in the American War. Amputation ., through a joint, rather than in the continuity of a long bone, has yielded more satisfactory results, both in regard to the stump, and - the comparative mortaUty. The former is certainly a more convenient, operation, where time is precious to the operator, as in service on the field. And looking at the results collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, it appears that in 86 cases of amputation at the knee-joint, 49 recovered, and 37 died, showing a mortality of only 43 per cent.; as compared I