SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 818 FiQ. 433 * Fig. 434.t (Fig. 433.) This, however, is a deceptive appearance, arising from the obliquity of the pelvis downwards towards the diseased hip; measurement with a tape from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to another fixed point below the joint, the inner malleolus, will at once show that there is no elongation in reality. The limb becomes ^vasted from disuse, the gluteal muscles especially, so that the buttock is flattened and flaccid, wider than natural, and the lower fold of the nates less marked. Pain is now felt in the hip, or referred more to the inner side of the knee ; and the pain in the former situation is aggravated by any attempt to bear on the joint, by abduction or rotation of the limb, and especially by concussion of the bones, as by striking the trochanter or jerking the limb upwards from the sole of the foot. Pain on the inner aspect of the knee is a sympathetic sensation; de- pending, probably, on the nervous relation between the hip and knee, through the obturator and perhaps the anterior crural nerves. Both these nerves supply arti- cular branches to the hip, and to the inner side of the knee. (2.) Iteal sliortening of the limb—succeeding its apparent lengthening — marks the second stage, as it has been termed, of this disease. It coincides with advancement of the disease to destruction of the carti- lages and of the head of the femur, acetabulum, or both bones; whereupon the limb is drawn up by muscular action. Shorten- ing varies, therefore, in different cases, but it in- creases as the disease pro- gresses. The attitude of the limb is somewhat changed; still remaining flexed, it has now also become in- verted, with some projec- tion of the buttock backwards and upwards ; in these appearances resembling dislocation backwards on the dorsum ilii or into the ischiatic notch. Lateral inclination of the pelvis has at length produced a compensatory lateral cwvature of the spine, in tlie lumbar region ; with more or less incurvation or lordosis, owing to the uprising of the buttock. Wasting of the limb increases. This shortened, flexed, inverted, and wasted limb, with obliquity of the pelvis and twisted lordosis of the spine, presents a very characteristic appear- ance. (Fig. 434.) Pain also has become more severe, and aggravated by the attrition of the exposed surfaces of bone, subject to spasmodic muscular action, has acquired the character of starting pains. Abscess within the joint bursts into the surrounding cellular texture, * Royal Free Hospital. From a boy, aged 16. Disease of about six montlis' duration. (Author.) f Another case. (Author.^