NECROSIS. 695 it must be removed by Art. Its removal is determined, botb in point of time and the extent of dead bone to be removed, by the ulcerative line of demarcation and the detachment of that portion; a process of some weeks' or months' duration, and the progress of which should be : ascertained, from time to time, by examination with the probe. The 1 sequestrum may have become completely detached from the living i bone, but yet remain fixed by adhesion to the granulations which ! closely penetrate its worm-eaten surface; so that it will perhaps be ■ necessary to ascertain whether the piece of dead bone can be made to move a little upwards or downwards, by gentle pressure alternately between two probes, introduced ■ into cloacte, at some distance apart. I A loosened sequestrum, imprisoned within a sheath of new bone, can only be extricated by surgical interference. The operation consists in cutting down upon the bone, and extracting the sequestrum, by means of serrated bone-forceps. (Fig. 314.) In making the incision, ad- vantage is taken of the course of the fistulous tracks leadinc^ to the cloacEe in the bony case; and then the latter apertures are made available for removal of the sequestrum. The cloacae are usually found at the lower part of the bony case; but they communicate with , : the cavity containing the sequestrum by osseous canals, of variable ; extent, and which have a more or less oblique direction upwards. j Narrowed internally, and expanded somewhat outwards into a funnel ^ shape, the apertures are round or fissured, and of small size—generally < not larger than would admit a small quill or a probe. Sometimes, one Fig. 314. Fig. 316. Fig. 315. Or the cloaca may be enlarged, or two such apertures thrown into one by excising the intervening portion of the bony case with. strong cutting-pliers, straight or angular bladed. (Figs, 315, 316.) The sequestrum may perhaps be pushed upwards or downwards, so that one end can be seized with the forceps, and thus the whole i