431 CARBUNCLE OR ANTHRAX. occurrence of deliritim. The respiration was often remarkably em- barrassed, owing to the inspiratory muscles—pectorals, intercostals, etc_—being the seat of cellulitis. In some cases, dyspnoea was rendered more urgent by pleurisy. In others, the respiration was itself much affected, especially when the disease began in the arm. Certain facts of apparently minor significance, because only occasional, are a peculiar cadaveroiis smell emitted from the patient's body during life, and that, in one case, a foetid and coloured sweat proved critical. Blood Origin.—Two facts at least point to the inference that cellu- litis is the local manifestation of a blood-poison. The fever being typhoid, resembles the working of some blood- poison analogous to that which is undoubtedly in operation when typhoid fever is engendered by infection; and the local manifestation itself—cellulitis being a spreading inflammation, extending continu- ously, and not confined to one spot, shows that some morbid condition of the blood disturbs the course of textural assimilation. The nature of the blood-poison demands investigation. Treatment.—Preventive measures are unknown, nor can they be discovered until the etiology of this disease is better understood. The remedial treatment, so far as art has any controlling influence, is substantially the same, both constitutionally and locally, as for phlegmonous erysipelas. Carbuncle and Boil are alike, essentially, inflammations of the subcutaneous cellular texture, which may occur in various parts of the body; but the effusion is circmnscribed and brawny, so that the im- prisoned cellular tissue invariably sloughs. Certain differences, how- evei', will be observed. Carbuncle or Anthrax.—Commencing as a hard, vesicular or pustular nodule, this soon enlarges into a flat, oval or circular, some- what spongy swelling, having a brawny circumscribed border; the whole swelling being of a dusky, reddish-brown colour, and very pain- ful,—burning, contracting, or throbbing. The size of this swelling varies from half a crown to that of a dinner-plate, and it varies also with the progresa of the inflammation. At length the skin over the flat surface yields in yellow or ash-colou.red sloughs at numerous points, forming as many small apertures, through which a greyish or yellowish, sloughy and purulent, foetid discharge oozes, or starts up on the slightest pressure around; exhibiting a cribriform appearance never to be forgotten when once seen, peculiar to carbuncle. As slough- ing of the skin advances, the apertures run together and coalesce, the cribriform surface disappears, and discloses the subjacent cellular texture, a quagmire of slough. Carbuncle is commonly situated about the shoulders or on the nape of the neck, where if large it gives a remarkable breadth to that part. Occurring sometimes on the lower part of the back or sacrum, it may form on the front of the chest or abdomen, occasionally on either extremity, and very rarely on the fore- head or face. One on the nose, seen by Sir B. Brodie, gave the most singularly hideous appearance, completely disguising any lineaments of the h uman face. Fortunately, carbuncle is usually solitary. Fever of the typhoid character precedes and accompanies the swell- ing, and it becomes more marked as sloughing ensues. But there is also a notable derangement of the liver and other digestive organs, indicated by a yellowish complexion and brown furred tongue.