26 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. seen a man die from strangulated hernia, in spite of my earnest and repeated remonstrances to him, and to his wife, as the strangulation proceeded to a fatal termination. On the other hand, if the patient be insensible, or imbecile, or in the case of a child or infant, and in the absence of immediate relatives or parents, the operation being an urgent one, the Surgeon will be free to act according to his own judgment. The preparation of the patient, mentally and bodily, will consist in inspiring him with cheerful hope, and in bringing his bodily health to a quiescent condition, especially observing that the actions of the digestive organs, and of the skin and kidneys, are healthy, when time can be allowed for any such preparation. This tranquil, even state of mind and body, is that best fitted for operation. But, when no time can be permitted for any constitutional preparation, as after most severe injuries, the patient must be at once submitted to operation. Arrangements for Operation.—The arrangements requisite for the efficient and convenient performance of surgical operations, relate to the Room, the Operating-table, Instruments, with other Appliances, and Assistants. The Room-, of convenient size, should admit a good light, an over- head or sky light being very desirable for most operations; it must be adequately warmed in cold weather, or for the performance of opera- tions wherein the abdomen is opened and the viscera exposed, as in operating for strangulated hernia and in ovariotomy; but there should also be the means of free ventilation or change of air about the patient, when under the influence of ether or chloroform. Besides the requi- sites of light, temperature, and air, an ample supply of water, warm and cold, must be at hand. The Op crating-table must be strong, and firm-standing (not moving on castors), of convenient height, and width only of the body, covered with, blankets overlaid with india-rubber sheeting, and provided with pillows. The tables constructed for operation, as used in Hospitals, are fitted with a mechanism for raising the head and shoulders to any requisite height; and flaps are provided for leaving the legs unsup- ported, as for amputation, or when the nates are placed so as to rest over the end of the table, as for lithotomy, and other perineal opera- tions. A low, firm stool will be a requisite accompaniment for these operations, to seat the operator in cutting for stone, or an assistant in holding the leg for amputation. An Operating-chair, instead of a table, is necessary for cases wherein the patient is seated; as in opera- tions about the face, the extraction of nasal polypi, for cleft-palate, or the removal of either jaw; also for other operations, as amputation at the shoulder-joint, and tapping the abdomen. The chair itself, firm-standing, and high-backed to support the head, much resembles a dentist's chair. These arrangements respecting the room and table should be seen to by the Surgeon himself, when not regularly provided as in a Hospital; but the remaining provisions, as to instruments and assistants, must always be personally superintended. The Instruments necessary should be well selected with regard to the nature and possible complications of the operation; and for con- venience, they should be arranged on a small table or tray, in the order in which they are to be used, and placed near the Surgeon, so that he can help himself to any instrument he may require, or have it