DISEASES OF AETERIES. 657 particularly in its abdominal portion; rarely in the second and third sized arteries. . ^ , , • Ossification or Calcareous Degeneration.—Calcification, Lretvfication. ipiiig ]jind of degeneration may be consequent on the atheromatous, or it may occur independently, {a.) As a sequel of atherornatous deo-eneration, ossific transformation of the arterial texture, consists of thin scales, having a brittle consistence and pale yellow colour. They are seated between the inner and middle coats of the artery; and lying immediately beneath the inner membrane, these scales look what, indeed, they are—ossified atheromatous patches, and can be readily felt in' the walls of the vessel, between the thumb and finger, giving a thickness and rigidity to the Tig. 173.* substance of the artery. In this form the _ degene- ration is sometimes named laminar ossification. (Pig. 173.) But the deposit is not truly ossific, in the sense of having the structure of bone; that would imply a development, and to a high degree of structural formation, quite opposed to the nature of structural degeneration. The quasi-ossific de- posit consists—as Valentine and others have shown —of earthy particles, having a round, annular, or irregular shape, with radiating prolongations; this earthy or cretaceous matter being set within a pel- lucid, somewhat laminated, and finely granular organic texture. The scales, thus constituted, thicken and extend, with disintegration and disappearance of the fibres of the middle coat; while the inner membrane, adherent to the scale, cracks at the centre, and perhaps, at last, wastes away, thus approaching to the state of atheromatous ulceration within the artery. The bony scale becomes loosened, and partly detached from the remnant middle coat; in this state, or perhaps enlarged to a rough eminence, it may project within the vessel, more or less obstructing the canal, and gathering fibrinous coagula from the impeded blood-current. In this way an artery becomes partly occluded, as well as contracted or narrowed by increasing thickness of the adjoining parietal deposit; forming a more or less rigid and inelastic tube. Thence, probably, the origin of a general or circumferential dilatation of an artery, under the constantly expansive force of the blood-stroke; as in the aortic arch. But ^ at any spot weakened by an upturned bony scale within the vessel, there the artery is liable to true aneurismal dilatation into a sac, or there spontaneous rupture may occur. (6.) Ossification taking place independently of previous athero- matous deposit, differs in some particulars from that already described. This second form of the degeneration was clearly defined by the ob- servations of Audral and Lobstein. The ossific or cretaceous matter, consisting of phosphate and carbonate of lime-granules, is still deposited betwixt the inner and middle coats of the artery, but invading the latter tunic, which has lost its fibrous texture, owing to disintegration and atrophy. The inner surface of the vessel, therefore, assumes a dotted and rough granular appearance; while the walls feel somewhat rigid and inelastic. Arteries of the second and third size are chiefly affected with this form of ossification. The changes which the deposit • Middlesex Hosp. Mus,