SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 650 * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Museum, 3, 70. Treatment.—No bony union taking place, as a rule, in intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur, it will generally be useless to adjust the fracture and apply any retentive apparatus, with a view to such union; and the more so, in proportion to the years of the patient. In elderly persons, and those to whom any long confinement would be pre- judicial, their general health is of more consequence than the fracture, and which is itself irreparable in advanced life. The limb may be placed in an easy position, until pain, and the inflammatory consequences of the injury have subsided, when a splint moulded to the hip should be applied, and the limb slung from the foot by a long band passing round the neck; the patient thus being enabled to get about on crutches. Whatever reparation, and recovery from lameness, may then take place, it proceeds under the most favourable circumstances with regard to the general health, and its influence on reparation. In younger subjects, the fracture may be adjusted, and a long splint applied, as for the treatment of other fractures of the femur. Admitting the possibility of bony union, and the uncertainty of diagnosis between intra-capsular and extra-capsular fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, it is deemed advisable by some Surgeons of experience, not only to abandon Sir A. Cooper's rule of practice— that of treating all supposed intra-capsular fractures without retentive apparatus—but, conversely, to treat all alike by retention, excepting under the special circumstances of advanced age or debility. Other- wise, the Surgeon may fail to obtain bony union and a more useful limb, when he might possibly have gained this end ; or he may be misled to neglect the proper treatment, when the fracture is beyond the capsule. Impacted fracture should be treated in the same way ; but the splint is applied only for retention, as the limb cannot be extended to its original length. (2.) Extra-capsular Fracturi!) of the Neck op the Femur.— Structural Conditions.—In situation, extra-capsular fracture may occur at any part of the neck external to the capsule ; Fig. 254.* Y)vit generally at the base, corresponding very nearly with the anterior and posterior inter- trochanteric lines. (Fig. 254.) Comminution is almost invariably produced; and, probably, by the penetration of the upper fragment into the trochanteric fragment, so as to split it into two or more pieces. The direction of the fractui'e in the outer fragments is also remarkably uni- form ; the great trochanter usually being divided from near the centre of its summit, obliquely downwards and forwards towards its base, and the line of fracture terminating a little short of the small trochanter or penetrating beneath its base; one or two lines also usually traverse the great trochanter, horizontally. In more than twenty specimens, observes Hamilton, there were only two or three exceptions to these general rules. Impacted fracture is produced, when the fragment is driven into, and partly imbedded in, the trochanteric fragment; the compact