403 GUNSHOT WONNDS. bullet, and this lodges in the wound. Sucli portions may occur, irrespective of the shape of the bullet, from a cylindro-conical as well as from a round bullet; and instances of either kind came within the experience of the last-named authority during the Crimean war. In gunshot wounds of the skull, a ball impinging obliquely is especially liable to be split; one fragment penetrating the cranial cavity, and the other lodging under the scalp, or flying oif. Cases of this kind are mentioned by Lany, Hennen, and Gruthrie; and some half-dozen in- stances are recorded in that most valuable repertoire of American 1 experience, " The Medical and Surgical History of the "War of the Rebellion," by Assistant-Surgeon George A. Otis, under the direction of the Surgeon-Greneral, Joseph K. Barnes. 1870. (Part I. vol. ii.) Other hinds of foreign bodies, and of various shape, as gravel, bits of wood, portions of clothing, etc., are not unfrequently found, or remain deep in a gunshot wound; any such substance being additional • to the projectile, or the only extraneous substance. In the discharge ' of fire-arms, or of cannon, certain substances are apt to be thrown off ; accidentally, and may be found imbedded in a wound thus produced; ; as when a fragment of a copper cap is blown off, or a piece of fuse. Gunpowder is sometimes driven into the skin, as by explosions in blasting or the discharge of blank cartridges; and, in civil practice, I similar accidents occur, from the explosion of a powder-flask, or of a . gun in the act of loading. A portion of the body of another individual close at hand, may be I struck ofi by gunshot injury and driven into the one who is the subject ■ of examination. Any such fragment is thus introduced by indirect participation in the gunshot injury. A double tooth, belonging to a ' comrade, was found imbedded in the eyeball, in one case; a portion of the jaw of a companion was driven into the palate in another case; while, in a third case, a piece of the skull was found impacted between the eyelids, the fragment having been shot of£ the skull of a soldier close by. And, generally speaking, the fragment comes from a cor- responding region of the body struck by the shot. Signs.—The external appearances produced by gunshot wound will depend on the size of the projectile and its velocity. Nimiber of Apertures.—A small penetrating body, as a bullet, pro- duces—(a.) An aperture of entrance, and, if the ball lodges, this is the only aperture. But the ball may have passed round and out at this aperture ; or it may have rebounded, owing to the elasticity of the part struck, as the cartilages of the ribs; or, having lodged tem- porarily, it may have been withdrawn in a pouch of clothing. There being only one aperture is, therefore, no sure sign that the ball has lodged. (&.) Two openings—one of entrance, another of exit—are pro- duced if the ball penetrates with sufiicient velocity to pass through the limb or body, (c.) More than one, perhaps several openings of entrance are produced occasionally. Thus, a bullet having first struck any hard resisting object, and split into pieces, two or more portions may recoil and wound a bystander; producing as many entrance-apertures. In one such instance, a ball split into five pieces by first striking : agamstarock; and all five portions entered the body of a soldier a few paces off. But the number of openings are not necessarily the same as that of the balls which penetrate. For example, of three balls, two may have the same aperture of entrance, and of exit also. This