356 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. occasionally, refer the disease solely to constitutional predisposition, apart from the co-operative influence of social and hygienic causes. Sometimes the disease is elicited by an injury, perhaps of slight character ; but, in such cases which have come under my notice, the constitutional tendency has been specially conducive. The relation of uterine disorder to Hysteria is twofold, occasionally being the cause, more often the effect, of the constitutional disorder. The inde- pendent dissections of Dr. Robert Lee and Dr. Snow Beck have clearly demonstrated that the uterus is abundantly supplied with nerves, by virtue of which this organ is brought -into intimate connection with the entire nervous system. It may thus excite nervous disorder, or respond to the prevailing condition of the nervous system. But the nervous excitement of hysteria emanates from the uterus less frequently than may still be generally credited; for, in many cases, the function of menstruation is only secondarily impaired; while, in other cases, that function is fulfilled regularly and sufficiently, and seldom does the organ itself present any disease or displacement. Considering, however, the high nervous endowments of the uterus, it is not sur- prising that some uterine disorder, causative or consequent, should often be associated with Hysteria, which is essentially a disorder of the nervous system. Treatment.—In considering the treatment of Hysteria, the judicious practitioner will begin by searching out these causes—physical, mental, or moral—which have produced the diathesis. Its evil origin lies often in the depths of a vicious education; an indoor life, with high-pressure schooling for accomplishments; while, in after yeara, the hysteric patient is often the victim of that ennui and mental fallowness, or moral perversion, which proceeds from the want of a daily occupation of the head and heart with something better than mere passing circum- stances, the pursuit of some object in life, worthy of a rational and responsible being. No medicinal treatment can avail under any such adverse circumstances ; but when they are corrected, then the resources of medicine and hygiene may do much to relieve, if not to cure, the symptoms of Hysteria. The nervous excitement is frequently accom- panied with general muscular debility and irritability. Tonics and acute spasmodics may, therefore, be prescribed with advantage. And in these two classes of medicine, none are so efficacious as cinchona or cascarilla bark, and sulphuric ether or the etherial compounds. But one should not overlook the benefit to be derived, sometimes, from pre- parations of valerian, the nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of zinc; and the preparations of copper or iron,—having regard to the marked ansemia, which, in some cases at least, is associated Avith Hysteria. At the same time, tui-ning our attention to the state of the digestive organs, the careful regulation of the diet is of paramount importance; for the apjjetite, although perhaps voracious, is rarely selective of digestible food; and the whole process of digestion is often imperfect, resulting in mal-assimilation, and constipation alternating with fitful diarrhoea, and lumpy foecal evacuations from the ceUs of the colon or from an impacted rectum. Hence, a dinner-pill of gentian and aloes will prevent this oft-recurring source of intestinal iiTitation; while the administration of assafoetida occasionally, in pill or mixture, proves specially beneficial in routing out the offensive foecal accumulations. Rectal constipation is perhaps best relieved by the simple lavement of