774 SPECIAL PATUOLOGY AND SURGERY. * After Bigelnw. procedure, so as to convert the displacement into a dorsal dislocation. By " circumduction of the extended limb inwards, with eversiou enough to disengage it from the edge of the pelvis," the head of the femur passes on to the dorsum; but if the outer branch of the Y ligament is Ijrukcn, the limb does not become inverted. Reduction of the dorsal dislocation may then be accomplished in the usual manner. Of these two modes of reduction, the former seems the more simple, and should certainly bo tried before resorting to the production of a second dis- location, in order to i*educe the first. (h.) J-^/ra-spinous dislocation, beneath the inferior spinous process, is similar; but the shortening of the limb is less, and it is rather adducted, even so that the heel may rest on the instep of the opposite limb, although greatly everted. The head of the bone can be felt under Poupart's ligament, but there is marked flattening of the hip from absence of the trochanter, it being turned backwards into the acetabular cavity. This form of dislocation would seem to be a variety of the Pubic. Reduction may be accomplished by extension of the limb, just to bring the head of the bone down opposite to the acetabulum, with forcible rotation inwards at the same time, to turn it into the cavity. Manual extension will be sufficient for this purpose, and then, by laying hold of the knee and foot, the limb can be used as a lever for the rotatory movement. (c.) Anterior ohlique dislocation is even more uncommon than the preceding forms of upward dislocation. The head of the femur resting on the ilium outside the notch Fig. 388.* between the two anterior spinous processes, the limb is shortened, as in supra-spinous dislocation, but it lies obliquely across the opposite thigh (Pig. 388), with some eversion, the great too pointing outwards. This pecuhar position of the limb may be produced by a modification of the ordinary dorsal dislocation. In the rc- duciion, therefore, Bigelow directs that the limb should be brought across the symphysis pubis, with a little eversion, if necessary, to disengage the head of the bone; when, by inward rotation, the dis- placement will be converted into a dislocation on the dorsum ilii. This must then be reduced. (2.) Boivmvard dislocation, in irregular directions, has been met with in three forms: downwai-ds and hmkioards, upon the posterior part of the body of the ischium, between its tuberosity and its spine; or, into the lesser or lower ischiatic notch; directly or vertically down- wards, beneath the lower border of the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium; or forwards, into the -perineicrti, upon tho ramus of the ischium and pubis, even as far as the body of the pubes. (a.) Dislocation dowmvards and hackioards upon the tuberosity of the ischium, or into the lesser ischiatic notch. This may be regarded as a