WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 377 tlie orbit after removal of the eyeball, or from the socket of a tootb, in the rare case of continued bleeding after tooth extraction. Direct pressure can be brought to bear, even more effectually, by means of a grachtated compress, applied to the bleeding vessel. This form of compress consists of a series of pads of dry lint, from the smallest pledget which is placed on the bleeding point, over which another is laid down, and as many more, each of increasing size, as will reach above the level of the surface ; thus making a conical-shaped compress, the apex resting upon the wound in the vessel, and the whole being secured by a bandage. In applying the first plug of lint, the cavity must be well sponged out, while the main artery is commanded above, that the bleeding vessel may be faiiiy seen, before laying down the compress. It represents the clot-compress of nature. The graduated compress should be allowed to remain until the wounded vessel has become closed without the risk of hsemorrhage recurring; the requisite period varying from about a week to a fortnight. This mode of direct compression is specially applicfe-ble to the wound of a single artery, and which cannot be secured otherwise ; but direct com- pression, in either of the ways described, is suitable only, or chiefly, for the control of small arteries, and where the support of bone affords counter-pressure. (4.) Ligature.—The ligature is a Surgical appliance in imitation of a lacerated wound, partially extending through the coats of an artery, i.e., through its two inner coats, which are thin and fragile, leaving the thicker and tougher outer coat and cellular sheath untorn. The effectual operation of this appliance is compression of the vessel to induce coagulation of the blood stagnant above and below the ligature, and the effasion of plastic lymph, from the divided coats, to perma- nently occlude the vessel in both directions; sloughing of the included ring of outer coat and cellular sheath being rendered necessary to detach the ligature. The details of this reparative process, thus in- duced artificially, are these:— The included portion of external cellular Fig. 90. coat and sheath, having undergone continued compression, sloughs, and is detached with the thread, in a period varying from twenty- ; four hours or so to about three or four • weeks, chiefly according to the size of artery, . Haemorrhage would then be inevitable; but, ] pending the detachment of this slough-ring, i effusion of plastic lymph, from the vasa 1 vasorum, takes place, whereby the two inner c coats, divided, become adherent across the « area of the vessel, just above and below the ligature. At these points they curl inwards V when divided, and, converging, meet together. This condition was well seen in a femoral artery and vein (Pig. 90), which I examined .. five days only after it had been ligatured •when the thigh was amputated. A process of organization, therefore, above and below the hgature, accompanies the destruction and detachment of the ring of external coat embraced by the thread. Thus