SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 470 an aneurismal sac, whicli had previously undergone consolidation and absorption, is an extremely rare event. This must not be confounded with returning pulsation. Mr. Erichsen believes there are only two unequivocal instances on record, both of which were in the ham; the original tumour having disappeared entirely, this secondary disease made its appeai'ance after the lapse of six months in one case, and after four years in the other instance. Secondary Aneurism, in the sense of another didlnct aneurism arising close to the former oue— double aneurism, in fact—is quite another matter. Treatment of Pulsation, Continuous or Returning.—This, of course, must have reference to the cause or causes of the pulsation. Arising, in most instances, from an undue collateral circulation communicating, directly or indirectly, with the sac, the pulsation will cease as the deposition of laminated fibrine proceeds therein. The process of natural cure rights itself. Failing this result, the balance between the deposi- tion of fibrine and the supply of blood may be slowly gained, or regained by sufficiently elevating the limb; while the pulsation can be directly restrained by moderate pressure on the aneurism, with a compress and roller, evenly applied. These resources not proving effectual, the coagu- lating power of the blood deserves consideration; but our knowledge respecting its operation within the body is at present very limited. Here then pathology fails to guide the treatment. The presence of a vas aberrans is discovered at the time of operation, by ascertaining whether the ligature entirely controls the pulsation of the aneurism. If not, the tributary vessel should be sought. It will not be far off, and it must be secured by another ligature. In like manner, the aneurismal artery is identified by trying the pulsations of the sac, when the supposed aneurismal vessel is commanded above ; but this should be done before the ligature is applied. Lastly, application of the ligature transversely round the artery will avoid any chance of pulsa- tion continuing or returning, as occasioned by shifting of the noose. Extreme cases, which baffle all these resources and precautions, necessitate further operative proceedings. Beaijplication of the ligature may have to be resorted to ; either lower down the artery—nearer the sac, as an approach to Anel's operation—or by opening the sac, turning out the clots, and tying the artery immediately above and below—the old operation of Antyllus. I know of no data for determining the Surgeon's choice, but the latter operation, whereby Nature's work of coagulation and consolidation is undone, should be resorted to reluct- antly. Amputation is the very last resource. (3.) Gangrene of the limb proceeds from causes of an opposite character to those which induce pulsation in the aneurism, after the Hunterian operation. The latter are conditions which favour an undue collateral circulation through the sac; the conditions to which I now allude retard any collateral circulation. Firstly, an aneurism itself retards the current of blood through the artery, and operates also by compressing the neighbouring vessels; thus preventing the transmission of arterial blood, and the return of venous blood. Gangrene threatens; The application of a ligature to the aneurismal artety is an additional obstruction, rendering the condition more perilous; and if the collateral circulation be interrupted by the large size of the aneurism compressing the neighbouring vessels, then gangrene ensues. Secondly, surgical mismanagement of the limb.