192 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND STJRGETIY. sarcolemma, which still remains unbroken and enclosing them. The large oval nuclei, which are perhaps peculiar to the muscular fibres of the heart, have become obscure, or altogether disappeared. But no fat- particles or drops are commonly found between the fibres, and the absence of any interstitial fat is conspicuous, unless the sarcolemma has par- tially disappeared in the course of degeneration, or has been ruptured in displaying the fibres with needles. In contrast with this degeneration, I have here represented the appearance produced by disintegration of the sarcous elements in the muscular fibres of the heart, (Fig. 71) ; show- ing the entire absence of transverse striae, un- accompanied by the substitution of oil-particles. This transformationresultedfrommal-nutrition, induced by dense thickening of the cardiac re- flexion of the pericardium consequent on pericarditis, as represented in Fig 19, page 76. Sudden death occurred while turning in bed. (Royal Free Hospital). Fatty degeneration is regarded as a chemical transformation. It is alleged that this conclusion might be inferred from the fact, that in fatty degeneration of striated muscular fibre the oil-particles are primarily arranged in the same manner as the proper structural constituents, or sarcous elements of the fibrils, whose place they occupy. It is urged as a more direct proof, by Dr. Quain,* sup- ported by Dr. C. J. B. Williams,t Paget,J Bennett,§ and by other distinguished pathologists, that fatty matters are produced during the spontaneous decomposition of nitrogenous substances, as the for- mation of adipocire in muscular tissue ; instances of which are given by Virchow. || Then again, muscular tissue is converted into adipocire when macerated in water for some time ; and this artificial production of fatty matter in muscular tissue was originally adduced by Dr. Quain, and since by the above-named pathologists and others, in confirmation of the chemical theory of fatty degeneration, by which muscle and other textures are transformed into fatty matter within the living body. But the carefully conducted experiments of Mr. Peel and Dr. Ormerod lead to the conclusion that, in the production of adipocire from muscle, the fatty matter is " not a newly formed substance, but a new arrangement of the old materials, a saponification of the fat already existing." Hence, that the chemical theory of fatty degeneration is fallacious, and that the increased production of fatty matter is a vital change,—that degeneration is a physiological or pathological process. Fatty degeneration is apt to arise in connection with a general increase of fat in the body; a fact adverted to by Dr. T. K. Chambers,^ as a casual coincidence in the human subject; and, I have shown this * " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxxiii. p. 140, etc. t " Principles of Medicine," 1856, p. 449 et seq. X " Surgical Pathology," 1833, vol. i. § " Principles and Practice of Medicine." ; || " ArcMv," B. i. p. 167. II " On Corpulence," 1850, pp. 120, 121.