265 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. manj months afterwards, or if secondary symptoms returned, caries was not one of them. Necrosis, in. constitutional syphilis, is equally often the offspring' of mercury. Tertiary Symj^tonis.—All the foregoing diseases can scarcely be designated secondary. Some of them, and more particularly disease of the testicle and of the bones, are tertiarij, as compared with others previously described in the series. So also are certain ulcerations affecting the nose, lips, and roots of the nails. A tubercular nodule may form on the ala of the nose. It is a har- dened copper-coloured mass, varying in size fi^om the eighth of an inch and more; persistent perhaps for many months, then ulcerating and destroying the nasal cartilages, and possibly extending further. Cracks on either lip may appear, and remaining for weeks or months, ulcerate extensively. Ulceration about the roots of the nails, onychia, may occur, having a brown, or black colour, surrounded by a deep copper-red margin, and attended with a most offensive discharge. The fingers, toes, or both, though commonly the former, may be thus affected. In either case the ulceration is very obstinate, and the nails loosen, or fall off. The hair may become dry, withered, and faded in. colour; cracked or split at its extremities, and be shed or easily combed off, abundantly, even to baldness. If the bulbs are affected, the hair is not repro- duced, and the baldness is permanent, a condition known as alopecia. It may be partial or entire; and affect the beard, eyebrows, and eye- lashes. In one case, recorded by Vidal, the hair over the whole body came off. Gummy Tumorirs are met with, consisting of degenerative trans- formations of connective tissue, and having a yellowish-white appear- ance on section; of variable size, but with an ill-defined outline, being perhaps thinly encapsuled, yet continuous with adjoining textures. The consistence of these tumours is tolerably distinctive—hence named gummy; they yield a soft or firmer resistance to the touch, or having undergone atrophy and conversion into caseous matter, the little mass becomes a harder lump. The parts in which such tumours may be found are very widespread:—in the skin or mucous membrane, or seated in the sub-cellular tissue, and at length forming tertiary ulcers, as on the tongue or soft palate, or in the pharynx and larynx; in fibrous mem- branes, as the periosteum, or in bones, appearing as nodes; while, in the connective tissue of muscles, gummy tumours are not uncommon, as obscure growths; and in organs, more particularly in the liver, lungs, spleen, brain and nerves, kidney and testicle, these formations constitute the syphilitic affections of internal organs which have specially been investigated by Lancereaux and Dr. Wilks. Lastly, a wan, yellowish hue overshadows the skin in an advanced stage of the disease, which is designated the syphilitic cachexia; but this may denote a mercurial deterioration of the blood. Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis. — The term in- fantile syphilis is not intended to signify primary syphilis in an infant, communicated at birth, from a primary sore or chancre existing in the person of the mother. The disease referred to is truly constitutional syphilis inborn,'and transmitted as an hereditary infection, from the mother at the time of conception or during the period of intra-uterine life. But constitutional syphilis in the mother, in the father, or in both