617 FRACTURE OF THE RIBS AND COSTAL CARTILAGES. Causes.—Direct violence, as the cause of fracture, produces displace- ment inwards, with, probably, some wound of the pulmonary organs, or other viscera occasionally. Indirect violence, as compression of the chest by a wheel passing over it, produces displacement of the frac- tured ends, outwards, and contusion of the viscera. The former condition of injury will, probably, be limited; the latter more exten- sive : the one also may be fracture of any rib, at any part of its extent; the other is generally that of the mid-ribs, at their convexity. Loss of elasticity in the ribs would seem to render persons of advanced years more liable to fracture arising from any compressing force. On the other hand, in childhood, the thorax yielding with cartilaginous resistance, great compression, as by the passage of a carriage-wheel over the chest, is not necessarily attended with fracture. A similar accident to a young retriever dog, which I witnessed, caused no appreciable injury; the animal whining only for a few moments, although the wheel had left its mark plainly across the chest. Mus- cular aation has been known to cause fracture of the ribs; as by con- traction of the abdominal muscles during parturition. Course and Terminations.—Fracture unattended with any damage to the thoracic organs, proceeds favourably; union of the ribs taking place, with facility, in four or five weeks. Slight deformity only remains, as the result of some displacement, and of ensheathing or provisional callus. Between adjoining ribs, plates of bone have some- times foi"med, as a supplemental bond of union. Penetration of the pleura and lung may be followed by some inflammation of either—by pleurisy or pneumonia. Usually, however, any htemoptysis, pneumo- thorax, or general emphysema, ceases after a time ; and any inflam- matory action supervening, has not a fatal issue. Contusion of the viscera by compression may soon prove fatal; but the almost momen- tary subjection of the chest to such force, is sometimes followed by no unfavourable consequences, although there be extensive fracture of the ribs. Treatment.—Fracture, by itself, requires simply the application of a broad rib-bandage round the chest, in order to arrest thoracic respi- ration ; thus securing the ends of bone in apposition, and at rest as much as possible. Any displacement may generally be overcome by •compresses suitably applied; as over the sternum, to increase the convexity of the ribs, in the case of displacement inwards; or two compresses, one on either fractured end, in the case of projection outwards. The rib-bandage is itself secured in position, if necessaiy, by a vertical bandage over the shoulders, and abdominal strips passing round the buttocks below. These accessory restraints are useful in fat persons. A broad roll of adhesive plaster may be drawn once or twice round the chest, instead of a rib-bandage. It answers better, probably, mechanically, and is not likely to shift its position ; but it is a dirty, irritating thing, and as such I rarely use plaster, unless several ribs are broken. Medicinally, an anodyne cough mixture may be of service, to allay the pain and cough of irritation, consequent on the respiratory movements; but if the chest be well fixed, the ease experienced will be considerable. Penetration of the pleura and lung is more important than the fracture. Hajmoptysis, pneumothorax, and emphysema, alike require moderate depletory measures ; thus to reduce the general circulation,