349 HYSTERIA. than the dcsci-iption of an hysteric Iblp-joint by Sir B. Brodie, who, 1 believe, first drew attention to this very important subject. There is pain, says he, in the hip and knee, which is aggravated by pressure and motion of the limb, and the patient often lies fixed in one position on the bed or sofa. Ton will say, are not these indications of a diseased hip-joint ? But observe further. The pain is not, in general, fixed in any one part; it belongs to the whole limb. The patient winces, and sometimes screams, when you make pressure on the hip; but she does the same if you make pressure on the ilium, or on the side as high as the false ribs, or on the thigh, or even on the leg as low as the ankle; and everywhere the morbid sensibility is chiefly in the integu- ments. If you pinch the skin, lifting it at the same time off the subjacent parts, the patient complains more than when you forcibly squeeze the head of the thigh-bone into the socket of the acetabulum. As her attention is more directed to the examination, so the pain which she suffers from it is aggravated; but if her mind be occupied in conversation, she will scarcely complain of that which would have occasioned torture otherwise. There is no wasting of the giutgei muscles, and no flattened appearance of the nates; and the aspect of the patient is different from that which you would expect to find if the bones and cartilages of a joint were in a state of ulceration. Neither are there those peculiar and painful startings of the limb at night, attended often with frightful dreams, which mark the existence of this last disease. The pain will sometimes prevent the patient falling asleep; but, if once asleep, she sleeps soundly for many succes- sive hours. And this state of things may continue for weeks or months, or even for years, without leading to abscess, or any further ill consequences. Sometimes there is general tumefaction of the thigh and nates; or, in a few rare instances, there is a more defined and circumscribed swelling ; but without any perceptible fluctuation, and resembling a large wheal of urticaria. The limb may appear shortened, with elevation of the pelvis and bulging posterioi'ly, so as to form an acute, instead of a right angle, with the vertebral column; but this distortion is the result of disuse of the limb, and long-continued in- dulgence in an unnatural position. With regard to the Ireast, an hysteric affection may be distinguished by similar symptoms. Integumental pain or tenderness, on gentle palpation, rather than deeper-seated pain on handling the organ. And this morbid cutaneous sensibility is not Limited to the breast, but is diffused around, passing into the armpit and even down the arm. The examination is apt to excite reflex muscular movements and twitches, similar to those of chorea; and the patient either turns pale and faint, or her face becomes suffused with a rosy redness. But examine the mammary gland itself, however carefully, and no signs of inflammation can be detected; there is not even a blush of redness, and no swelling, beyond perhaps a general fulness, resulting jDrobably from continued determination of blood, and which is increased by the slightest manipulation. Nor in the substance of the organ can any distinct tumour be discovered. The sjrme is often the seat of hysteric pains, simulating the pain of spmal disease." No local manifestation of Hysteria has been more frequently mistaken for structural disease than spinal hysteria; this affection being treated as caries, afi'ectiug the bodies of the vertebrae,