TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 153 Operations for the cure of nsevi may be performed with a view either to their destruction and obliteration, or to their removal: (1) To induce adhesive inflammation in the substance of the tumour, with coagulation and permanent plugging of the erectile tissue; (2) cauterization, by the application of strong nitric acid or potassa fusa, in order to thus destroy the growth; (3) removal by incision, with the knife; or (4) by ligature, applied subcutaneously. Adhesive inflammation, as a means of destroying nsevus, is eligible only when the tumour is of small size, and occurs in situations inaccessible for excision or ligature. Ntevi situated near the eyelids, at the inner canthus, or on the tip of the nose, are thus circumstanced. In- flammatory adhesion and coagulation may be induced in various ways. By the injection of some stimulant, as perchloride of iron, by means of a screw-piston glass syringe, as used for the hypodermic injection of morphia; care being taken to throw in not more than two or three drops at one time, lest sloughing supervene, or coagula- tion extending into the surrounding vessels, a fatal embolism ensue from a clot entering the general circulation. Gralvano-puncture is another mode of exciting coagulation and consolidation. Subcutaneous puncture, and division of the vascular tissue, by means of a fine teno- tomy knife, is also an efficient, and a safe mode of destroying the tumour, in like manner. Or, by the introduction of seton-threads, for a sufficient time, and at different parts, in this way to induce inflammatory consolidation. Cauterization is eligible for the destruction of ngevus, where it is small and cutaneous, and its disfigurement is worse than the cicatricial scar resulting from the application of strong nitric acid or potassa fusa. Thus, a small "mother's mark," or an acquired vascular spot, may be touched with a glass rod dipped in the acid, or lightly pointed with a stick of the caustic. Uxcision may be resorted to for the removal of large nsevus, but this method will be appropriate especially when the growth is distinctly encapsuled, and can be dissected or shelled out. Ligature, applied subcutaneously, is the other method of removal which must be had recourse to, in all other conditions of nsevus, when of large size, not encapsuled, but connected with large feeding blood- vessels, especially arterial. The haemorrhage attendant on excision would be dangerous or fatal, and can only be prevented or controlled by ligature. Accordingly, the objects to be accomplished are—the complete and immediate strangulation of the vascular tissue, observing to include the whole tumour, and well around the limits of the disease ; but avoiding the skin, which may be divided in the intervals of the ligatures, or a single ligature may be passed around the tumour, subcutaneously. Small, firm, round whip-cord answers best. The nusvus-needles are curved, and firmly set in wooden handles, resembling aneurism-needles. Nffivus, of moderate size, and in a situation where cicatricial dis- figurement is not of much consequence, may be ligatured by two double ligatures passed underneath the base of the tumour, and cross- ing in opposite diameters, so as to divide it into four sections ; the skin may be either reflected, or divided circumfercntially, in the intervals of the ligatures, which are then successively drawn sufiiciently tight