GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 188 found in convenient, and apparently inimitable combinations, in the various natural chalybeate and saline mineral waters of Vichy, Wies- baden, and other Spas. In such resorts, persons of a "broken or worn-out constitution "—subjects of degenerative changes of structure —experience a temporary revival of their failing powers, if not a permanent restoration to health. Rarely will any topical applications prove beneficial; degeneration of any kind, and perhaps affecting internal organs, can scarcely be influenced by such treatment. Special Kinds of Degeneration.—Pathologists differ as to the number and specific distinctions of the various kinds of degeneration. The classification of Paget is not that of Dr. J. Hughes Bennett; nor this, again, that of Dr. C. J. B. Williams. As this branch of Pathology stands at present, I would propose the following arrangement:—(1) Fatty degeneration ; (2) Pigmentary ; (3) Fibrous; (4) Amyloid ? Waxy, or Lardaceous; (5) Granular; (6) Calcareous, osseous, or mineral degeneration. These various forms of degeneration are of much, pathological interest in Surgery, as well as in Medicine; and it is a subject upon which, respecting Fatty degeneration in particular, I have made a series of microscopic observations, both in animals and the hnman species. The Student, to whom it may be necessary that he should enter further into these modes of degenerative transformation, will find the following summary of service, which is revised from my work on " Principles," now out of pi'int. He will thus be enabled to supplement his pathological knowledge as relating to the normal tissues, as well as pertaining to the products of Inflammation, and Tumours or Morbid Growths ; the whole of this pathological histology completing the Diseases of Nutrition. The special forms of degeneration ai'e little amenable to any treatment beyond the general indications already noticed. (1.) Fatty degeneration presents certain general, yet distinctive characters—structural, physical, and, it may be, chemical. Examina- tion with the microscope shows minute granules in the very substance of some structural element; be it a cell—in its contents, or in the place of its nucleus ; if a primitive fibre—in its substance ; if a simple membrane—in its substance : thus, in all cases substituting, at least in part, the original structural element, which has undergone this degenera- tive metamorphosis. These granules are particles of fat or oil; for being highly refractive, they are bright and glistening; they are soluble in ether ; and they tend to coalesce into distinct drops of oil. Proportionately as the oil-granules usurp the place of an elemental structure, its proper substance disappears. For example, a cell having become full of oil-particles,—a granule-cell, its walls disappear, leaving only a granule-mass ; and these granules are apt to coalesce into di'ops of oil. The interstitial tissue of the texture usually undergoes fatty de- generation simultaneously. And the disposition of these oil-granules is peculiar and significant. They are arranged, as Virchow observed in the liver, in the course of the capillary blood-vessels, which become thickly studded with particles of oil, as if deposited from the blood. The general physical characters of a texture whose structural