679 SUPPUKATION OF BONE. Fig. 291.t 1; suiDpuration, the cancelli being found loaded witla pus, wliile tlie medul- lary membrane is usually injected and often sprinkled with ecchymoses; the periosteum is often partly separated from the bone, but the compact osseous texture has not generally undergone any appreciable change. (Pig. 294.) In the typical specimen here represented, the section of a tibia, from a boy eighteen years of age, exhibits the effects of acute inflammation both in its medullary canal and in the periosteum. Lymph and pus are abundantly deposited in the cancellous tissue throughout its whole extent. Irregular ulcera- tions have extended through either end of the bone, and articular car- tilasfe into the knee and ankle- joints; suppuration has also taken place between the epiphyses and the shaft of the bone. The perios- teum, separated from the shaft in nearly its whole length, is very vascular, thick, pulpy, and velvety on its inner surface. At this stage, in the larger bones, the disease usually terminates fatally. Other- wise, the pus may penetrate into adjoining parts, probably into the nearest joint, as in the case de- scribed ; or central necrosis may ensue. In young persons, suppuration is apt to extend to the epiphysis, as in the knee-joint; affectiug the end of the femur, or the head of the tibia, as one or other bone is the seat of myelitis. The epiphysis becomes detached from the shaft. Sometimes both epiphyses, upper and lower, are involved, Bilboth having seen a double separation occur once in the tibia. The Signs—during life—are neither absolute nor _ obvious. Separation of the periosteum, with diffused pain in the bone, and diffuse inflammation of the integuments, equally the symptoms of osteo-myelitis and of diffuse periostitis, absence of effusion between the periosteum and bone is distinctive of osteo-myelitis; but this condition can scarcely be determined by external examination of the bone, and is often rendered more obscure by the superimposed oedematous swelling. With detachment of the epiphysis, there is mobility of the part, as in fracture; and dislocation may be produced by muscular action. The cause is usually some injury implicating the medullary mem- brane and cancellated structure of the bone affected. Thus, osteo- myelitis not unfrequently follows compound and comminuted fractures, gunshot wounds, amputations, and other operations exposing the medullary canal. It runs a rapid course, is commonly succeeded by pyoemic infection, and thence terminates fatally. Treatment.—Preventive measures afford the only reasonable chance of anticipating this issue; the cure of pyajmia being beyond the reach * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 4. Drawing, f Ibid. 1, 195. are An