622 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND fiURGERY. Fig. 212. Fig. 213. ossific character, will have taken place, generally, in about three weeks But there is nearly always some amount of deformity and shorteiiino^ of the bone (Fig. 212) as the result of this, or I believe any other, method of treatment. Fortunately, however, such defects are of little consequence, eventually, in the use of the arm. Other contrivances may, occa- sionally, be more suitable; and particularly in fracture of both clavicles. The shoulder can be drawn back- wards, and thus kept in position, by Q, figure-of-Q bandage across the back and front of the chest, winding under either axilla. (Fig. 213.) The other appliances are the same as those already noticed: an axillary pad, and a sling for the arm. Ex- coriation of both axillge is apt to be produced by this form of bandage. Brasdor's apparatus removes this objection to a figure-of-8 bandage. Two well-padded straps are used, one under either axilla, which are buckled to a back-piece of stoat leather, from which two perpendicu- lar straps pass down to a belt around the waist; thus retaining the whole apparatus in position. The back-piece consists of two portions, laced together according to the size of the chest. Objection has been urged, not without some reason, to the employ- ment of an axillary joad, which is liable to induce paralysis of the arm, by pressure on the brachial plexus of nerves. Dupuytren, Velpeau, Syme, and other excellent Surgeons, have concurred in condemning the application of a pad. Certain methods of treatment, of American origin, obviate the necessity for recourse to the pad, while they aim at depression of the sternal fragment by making tense the clavicular attachment of the pectoralis major muscle. Sayre's method consists in drawing the arm backwards, and the elbow well forward and inwards. This is accom- plished by the application of two broad strips of adhesive plaster, according to the following directions, as given in Hamilton's treatise:— Each strip is about three and a half inches wide, for an adult; one long enough to encircle, first the arm, and then the body completely; the other of suiEcient length to reach from the sound shoulder, over the point of the elboAv of the broken limb, and across the back obliquely to the point of starting. Maw's moleskin plaster, or some material of equal strength, should be used. The first strip is looped around the arm just below the axillaiy margin, and pinned or stitched, with the loop sufficiently open to avoid strangulation. The arm is then drawn downward and backward until the clavicular portion of the pectoralis major is put sufficiently on the stretch to overcome the sterno- mastoid muscle, and thus draw the sternal fragment of the clavicle down to apposition with the acromial fragment. The strip of plaster