746 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. cavity, and the fracture being reduced at the same time, the shoulder regained its natural size and shape ; but on relaxation, the head of the humerus immediately became redislocated, and the fractured end of the bone passing upwards and outwards, the peculiar appearance of the shoulder was easily reproduced. In the following complication of injury to the shoulder-joint, the fracture having detached the head and smaU tuberosity of the humerus, tWs portion of bone is dislocated forwards and inwards on the ventral aspect of the scapula, half an inch below the base of the coracoid process ; the articular surface of the head looking almost directly forwards. (Fig. 351.) The subscapulars tendon remains attached to the small tuber- osity, the broken surface of which is firmly united to the anterior part of the great tuberosity. The fractured end of the shaft of the humerus and of the great tuberosity, has passed into the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and has there become fixed; and the tendons of the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatns muscles still remain attached to the great tuberosity. The treatment of these complicated injuries of the shoulder is the only peculiarity of practical importance ; as to whether the dislocation or the fracture should be reduced first ? The former manipulation can generally be accomplished without much diflficulty. Extension will hardly avail much, or indeed be necessary, in eifecting reduction of the dislocation. Pressure on the head of the bone, aided by the relaxing influence of chloroform, has proved quite sufficient. Failing in this way, the fracture may be reduced and put up firmly, thus allowing of extension, or one of the other methods for reduction of the dislocation. Failing still to reduce the dislocation, the fracture must be alone ^ regarded; and then, at the earliest period after union of the fragments, reduction of the dislocation should again be attempted. This latter was the primary rule of treatment at one time, and it led to many successful results. But it implied that which experience has since disproved, the impossibility of reducing these complicated dislocations until the fracture had united. (3.) Dislocation forwards and inwards, complicated with fracture of the scapula—the tip of the coracoid process and end of the acromion, and of the clavicle in its outer curve. (Fig. 352.) The head of the * Eoyal Free Hospital. (Author.) t Key. Coll. Surg. Mus., 875. (Sir A. P. Cooper.)