rRACTURES OF THE LEG. * St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 97. 6G7 tlie peroneal mnscles, wliicli overlay tlie bone in this portion of its extent. By following- the fibula with the finger, frona below upwards, the signs of fracture may be rendered perceptible. Causes.—Direct violence seems to be the only cause of fracture of these bones in their upper part. Any crushing compression, as by a wheel passing over the leg, or the jam between the buffers of railway carriages, may thus be the occasion of fracture; both bones being broken at the same height, and transversely or comminuted. Gunshot injury acts in like manner. Indirect violence is, probably, the more common cause of fracture lower down. A fall or leap from a height, the person alighting on his feet, breaks the tibia obliquely; and the fibula next sustaining the shock, gives way. Fracture thus seldom occurs at the same height in both bones ; either bone yields at its weakest point—the tibia about the junc- Fig. 277.* tion of its lower third, the fibula near its upper end. (See Fig. 273.) Union by bone usually takes place in about six weeks or two months; in fracture of the fibula, a shorter period, three or four weeks. Some deformity, from over-lapping and shortening, to about half an inch in extent, is apt to result, in perhaps not less than half any number of cases when carefully examined. Commonly, the upper fragment overrides the lower, and—observes Hamilton—oftener a little upon the inner than upon the outer side. The natural axis of the limb is not unfrequently changed; the lower part having fallen backwards, or inclining in- wards, occasionally outwards (see Fig. 276), or forwards. In the result here represented (Fig. 277), angular displacement inwards has taken place to an extent which shows the extreme deformity that may occur from inattention in the course of treatment. Treatment.—The fragments having been brought into apposition by moderate extension, aided by suf- ficient flexion of the knee, and of the thigh on the abdomen, the leg may be laid in Mclntyre's double- inclined plane splint, properly padded, or that ap- paratus as modified by Listen. (Fig. 278.) This position of the limb overcomes displacement of the upper and lower fragments, as arising from muscular action; but displacement of the lower fragment, owing to any dropping of the leg, is still further counteracted by supporting the foot in a short sock with a tape attached to the toe, which is wound round a brass button over the end of the foot-piece of the splint. A roller is then applied around the foot and this portion of the splint to maintain extension, and continued around the leg and splint, upwards to the lower part of the thigh, or interrupted, if the fracture be compound. Mclntyre's double-inclined plane may be fixed by screwing the end to a vertical iron support, and which is attached to a flat board, itself placed underneath the mattress of the bed on which the patient lies. A cradle is placed over the leg to raise the bed-clothes. A more comfortable arrangement, and equally efficacious, in relation to the union of fracture, is to suspend and swing the limb