PuUications by Bailliere, Tindall, and Cox. 5 A Guide to the Examinations at the Royal College of Sur- geons of England for the Diplomas of Member and Fellow. By Frederick J. Gant, F.R.C.S., Senior Surgeon to the Royal Free Hospital. 3rd edition, revised and enlarged. 2>^. 6d. " In truth a most useful Guide to the Examinations."—Guy's Hasp. Gaz. In Preparation, by the same Author, ' The Science and Practice of Surgery, being a Complete Text-Book. 2nd edition, in 2 vols.; Illustrated by several hundred Wood Engravings, new and original. The Text-Book of Operative Suj^gery, From the French of Professors Claude Bernard & Huette. Illustrated with 88 plates. Plain and coloured. Edited and re-written by Arthur Trehern Norton, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, St. Mary's Hospital. Plain, 21s.; coloured, half calf, 42s. "A work of the highest merit as a'guide to operative surgery."—Shi- denCs Joumal. Osteology for Students, with Atlas of Plates. By Arthur Trehern- Norton, F.R.C.S., Atlas and text in one volume, 7J. dd.: in two vols., 8^. dd. "The handiest and most complete hand-book of Osteology."— The Lancet. Affections of the Throat and Larynx. By the same Author, Second Edition, Illustrated, ds. "Short, simple, and thoroughly practical instruction."—Medical Times. Abstracts of Surgical Principles for Medical Students. By Thos. Annandale, F.R.C.S., F.R.S. Surgeon to and Lecturer on Surgery, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, i vol., 7^-. 6d. A Manual of the Operations of Sua'gery, for the use of Senior Students, &c. By Joseph Bell, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to and Lecturer on Surgery, Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. 3rd edition, 6s. The Philosophy of Voice. Showing the right and wrong Action of the Breath and Vocal Cords in the Production of Articulate Speech and Song. By Charles Lunn. Fourth Edition, xs. 6d. The Pathological Anatomy of the Human Body. Trans- lated from the German of Professor Vogel. By George E. Day, M.A. Cantab., M.R.C.P. Lond. With 100 plain and coloured engravings. i8s.