788 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. Thus, a_ fall from a height upon the bottom of the foot, accompanied with violent abduction, adduction, and flexion; or extension, may determine a dislocation of the astragalus—forwards and inwards, or outwards; or backwards. A wrench or twist of the foot, in machinery or in the wheel of a carriage, for example, is another mode of pro- duction. A direct blow may also be the cause. Unreduced dislocation of the astragalus is a not uncommon result, reduction being often very difficult and having proved impossible. The use of the foot has been recovered so far as to enable the person to walk again, but with considerable crippling. Reduction, on the other hand, even when promptly and easily effected, has been followed by inflammation, and gangrene resulting in death. Treatment.—Reduction—when practicable—can be accomplished in the same manner as in dislocations of the ankle. Flexion of the leg to a right angle with the thigh relaxes the muscles of the calf ; and then extension from the foot, with counter-extension from the lower part of the thigh, aided by pressure on the displaced bone, will perhaps replace it. Division of the tendo-Achillis has facilitated replacement in obstinate cases. Thus, in a dislocation of the astragalus backwards on the calcaneum, the bone could not be reduced until the tendo-Achillis was divided, when I readily brought it forward into place. The probability of effecting reduction depends very much on the dislocation being incomplete; complete dislodgment of the bone will be very difficult to overcome. The tibia and os .calcis, powerfully drawn together, can hardly be separated to an extent sufficient for the return of the bulky astragalus ; itself also bound down by the extensor tendons in forward dislocation, and by the tendo-Achillis in backward dislocation. Should reduction have proved imjjossible, the integument over the projecting astragalus will probably slough and expose the bone ; antici- pating this result, it is better forthwith to proceed to excision, even if the dislocation be simple. Compound Dislocation presents no peculiarity otherwise than the more serious nature of the injury, from exposure of the bone, and as occasioned by more severe violence. I have seen one such case,—a compound dislocation of the astragalus forwards and inwards on to the scaphoid bone. Excision or amputation are the only alternatives. The result^ of the former operation have been so successful a^ to Fig. 404.* wan-ant its preference in general. Of eighteen cases, collected by Turner, wherein complete ex- cision of the astragalus was performed, fourteen recovered, and with anchylosis in only one instance. Dislocations of the other Tarsal Bones.—• Such dislocations are very rare. The Calcaneum may, however, be dislocated ontiuards from the astragalus alone, or from the cuboid bone simul- taneously, in a direction outwards and upwards. (Fig. 404) The astragalus here remains connected with the scaphoid, and has sunk nearly an inch downwards below its natural level. The external malleolus seems to have passed behind the elevated articular surface of the os calcis, as if the disloca- tion had been produced in a forcible rotation of the foot inwards; the » Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 884.