120 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Venous hoemon-liage may perhaps be stopped by the further support of plugging, with a styptic solution of irou, placed well home upon the bleeding vessel. But where the hjemorrhage is arterial, it cannot be arrested by compression, or by ligature of the vessel alone within the cavity of the abscess, for there the ulcerated or sloughy state of the part forbids the attempt, which might be followed by a fatal recurrence of the bleeding at any time; but we may perhaps trust the additional compression of the main artery above tbe abscess, or re- course must be had to ligature of that vessel. Another complication of abscess may be mentioned, as occurring sometimes wben the collection of matter is situated adjoining a mucous canal. Air permeates the cavity of an abscess so placed, or gains access by ulceration ; or gas may perhaps be generated by decompo- sition of the matter contained within the cavity; constituting what bas been named a tympanitic or emphysematous abscess. This change takes place more frequently in abscess lying against the rectum or the pharynx. The sound elicited by percussion, or a gui-gling sensation on manipulation, will suffice to make known the admixture of air and purulent fluid, when the situation of the abscess admits of this mode of examination. No special mode of treatment is required ; but an early and free vent should be given to the contents of such an abscess, and the cavity syringed out with an antiseptic solution. Sinus and fistula require special treatment, in some respects. Any assignable local cause having, if possible, been removed, as a piece of dead bone, or other foreign body; pressure by a graduated compress and bandage, will succeed occasionally in bringing about adhesion, if the sinus or fistula be recent and accessible. Drainage affords an efficacious resource when the fistula remains open, owing to the collec- tion of purulent matter below the level of the external opening, or too deep in to have a free discharge. The matter may then be allowed to drain away, either by inserting a piece of drainage tube, or by making a counter-opening; but a proper position of the part will sometimes seciu'e the requisite freedom of discharge. The tube acts also as a seton, and so far may promote the healing of the fistulous track ; but it must be withdrawn in a few days, lest it should provoke continued suppuration. When induration has taken place, or pressure cannot be applied, stimulating injections of sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, sometimes answer the purpose. Or a red-hot wire introduced up the passage, may prove successful. This is conveniently accom- plished by Mr. Marshall's apparatus, whereby a platinum wire, intro- duced cold, is made red-hot instantaneously by the galvanic current. Generally speaking, however, a sinus or fistula having become indurated, it obstinately resists any attempt to excite adhesion. Slitting up the passage with a curved bistoury, on a director if necessary, and heahng by granulation from the bottom, must then be had recourse to. A familiar illustration is the operation of fistula in ano. Whenever the per- sistence of a fistula depends on some constitutional cause, the general health must be attended to accordingly; as in the case of scrofulous disease of bone, with fistulse leading down to caries or necrosis. The destructive consequences of inflammation, i.e., ulceration and sloughing or gangrene, severally present certain indications of treat- ment.