313 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. least, precedes the local disorganization. Thus, John Bell noticed that the hospital sore is usually preceded by a degree of fever. Thomson— writing also from his own observations—states that these two classes of symptoms—the local and constitutional—are not invariable in the order of their appearance; for sometimes the one, and sometimes the other class, seems to occur first in the order of succession; but that the constitutional symptoms usually precede the local. Hennen also advocated this doctrine even more strenuously. The question of local or constitutional origin may be further ex- amined by reference to the known causes of hospital gangrene. External Causes.—All observations respecting the etiology of this disease agree in certain particulars; that it occurs as an endemic, springing up in some way among those who become affected. Thus, newly built hospitals are free, so also are generally those built on high ground; while the disease arises in crowded and ill-ventilated hospitals. But it is regarded by some observers as possibly an epidemic miasmatic disease; for it may appear very suddenly, both inside and outside an hospital at the same time, and disappear after a time, although the sanitary condition of the hospital and the treatment of the wounds remain unchanged. This mode of production, in hospital gangrene, is urged by Von Pitha and Fock; and as an occasional source, it is supported by Billroth, who suggests the possibility of atmospheric organisms acting like a ferment, and thus inducing de- composition on the surface of a wound—a germinal mode of origin. Infection.—Thomson regards the disease as possibly infectious. " I have seen," says he, "hospital gangrene introduced into an hospital by a single individual, and, when proper precautions were not taken, spread extensively among the other patients, but chiefly among those who lay nearest in the ward to the person originally affected or among those who had had most frequent intercourse with him. I have also known patients attacked in succession with hospital gangrene who had used the same bedding, or who, without using the same bedding, had occupied in quick succession the same small apartment." Fomites, therefore, can convey the infectious matter, and retain it some time. So highly infectious is this disease, according to Beyer's observation, that it broke out in wounded patients, who, hoping to escape, had quitted the infected hospital, and retired to elevated situations where they breathed the most salubrious air. The infecting distance, or range of the contaminated air from the focus of infection, is unknown; but the disease certainly attacks patients at some distance apart (Thomson). Nor is the period of latency, after infection, more exactly determined. I think, says this author, I have repeatedly seen the disease attack patients in less than three days after they had been exposed to its influence. The production of hospital gangrene by infection seems to be dis- proved by Blackadder's observations, and chiefly by the result of the following experiment. He placed three patients with clean wounds alternately between three other patients severely affected. Their beds were on the floor, and not more than two feet distant from each other ; but all direct intercourse was forbidden, and they were made fully aware of the consequences of inattention to their instructions. The result was, that not one of the clean wounds assumed the morbid action peculiar to the disease, nor was the curative process in any degree impeded.