SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 748 a new articular cavity is formed for it, by the deposit of new bone, tbns allowing of some amount of motion. The coronoid process, lodged in the olecranon fossa, was almost immovable. The brachialis anticus muscle is torn away from its insertion to the coronoid process, and was adherent to the lower end of the humerus; also to Fig. 354,* the ulna, below the coronoid process. (2.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards, or to the radial side (Fig. 354), is far less frequent than the foregoing, and usually incomplete ; complete dislocation having been known to occur in only 11 cases (Malgaigne), and all of which were met with in the practice of French Surgeons. Incomplete dis- location ; the nlna still articulates with the humerus, but the great sigmoid cavity is carried outwards from the trochlea, so that its central crest rests upon the depression which separates the capitellum from the trochlea. If the annular ligament remains un- broken, the radius is displaced in the same direction and to the same extent, its head resting against and directly below the outer condyle. More complete dislocation may occur, and complete dislocation, rarely ; the head of the radius being, perhaps, thrown forwards or backwards. The specimen figured exhibits an unreduced dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards, and partially backwards, with osseous union in their displaced position. The ole- cranon and coronoid process, and the greater portion of the sigmoid cavity of the ulna, are thus united to the middle of the posterior surface and margin of the external condyle of the humerus. Fracture of the external condyle seems also to have occurred. The articulation be- tween the radius and ulna is natural; and the radius, being fixed only by ligament to the humerus, may have had full freedom of motion. In a similar specimen—dislocation of the head of the radius outwards, and of the ulna backwards and outwards—a new joint is formed, in the form of a cup, partly bony, for the head of the radius. The inner condyle appears to have been fractured. (St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 14. Sir A. Cooper.) A variety of this dislocation is outwards and upwards or hackioards; the olecranon process of the ulna lying above and behind the outer condyle. The NEW variety, to which I have alluded, is a complete dislocation of the radius and ulna outwards and upwards laterally; the large sigmoid cavity of the ulna embracing the outer condyle and capitellum, just behind its articular surface, at a right angle, externally, with the humerus; and the head of the radius above, being in close relation to the external ridge of the humerus, which (ridge) bisected its round cup-like cavity. The head of the radius, therefore, was neither wholly in front nor behind the humerus; it was not dislocated forwards or backwards. In outward dislocations, the ligaments are more or less completely torn; but, in the ordinary forms of such dislocation, the brachiahs anticus and anconeus are the only muscles much disturbed, the biceps and triceps traversing the articulation a little more obliquely; while the principal arteries and nerves do not suffer much, if at all. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 878. (G. Langstaflf.)