122 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Pyemia, also, is amenable to this plan of treatment, if, indeed, it be subject to any remedial measures. Varieties op Inflammation. The excess or the defect, or, it may be, the peculiar character, of one or more of the constituent elements of inflammation, gives rise to corresponding varieties. The principal are as follows :—sthenic and asthenic; acute, subacute, and chronic; phlegmonous ; congestive; erysipelatous ; diphtheritic or pellicular; haemorrhagic ; and certain specific inflammations ; as the scrofulous, the gouty, and rheumatic, the syphilitic and the gonorrhaBal. The sthenic and asthenic varieties of inflammation, observes Dr. C. J. B. Williams, are I'eferable to a difference in the strength and irritability of the heart and arteries, and in the quality and quantity of the blood vrhich they propel. Sthenic inflammation is marked by a strong, hard pulse, high fever, very fibrinous blood, a full and active development of the chief symptoms of inflammation, and a tendency to the effusion of the more plastic products. This form of disorder occurs in subjects of the most robust constitution, in whom therefore the effects of disease are most readily shaken off. Asthenic inflammation occurs in persons, the tone and real strength of whose vascular system is low, and whose blood, generally speaking, is poor. The pulse is not always affected; but when it is so, it is in frequency rather than in strength or firmness ; the fever, if there be any, is of a slight, remittent, or low character. The products are either scanty, or of a cacoplastic or aplastic nature ; or the effusion may be chiefly serous, the inflamma- tion differing little from flux and dropsy. Treatment.—Sthenic inflammation requires the early and more free use of reducing measures—blood-letting, local and perhaps general, purgatives, antimony, and mercury. The system tolerates this antiphlogistic treatment better than in other varieties of inflamma- tion, and if employed in time, it is commonly successful, as the vigour of the constitution naturally tends to recovery. Asthenic inflammation, on the contrary, admits of less reducing treatment; and early recourse to stimulants and tonics, with a generous diet. Thus, bark or quinine, ammonia, wane, brandy, and animal food, must be soon administered. Acute, subacute, and chronic inflammation properly relate to its duration, but these terms are often used as synonymous with sthenic and asthenic. Acute inflammation may be, and commonly is, sthenic, but its distinctive character is, that it tends to a speedy termination of some kind or other. It may end in resolution, effusion, suppuration, or gangrene, in a period varying from a few days to three weeks. An inflammation lasting above the latter period is termed subacute, and if protracted beyond six weeks is properly called chronic. The latter is- commonly asthenic, though it sometimes presents a good deal of the sthenic character. Acute inflammation, when at all extensive, is attended with considerable fever and constitutional disorder. With subacute inflammation the fever is less, and may even be absent. In chronic inflammation there is rarely much fever, and when present, it is of a remittent or hectic kind. The products of acute inflammation are commonly copious and dis-