LIGATURE OF THE COMMON CAEOTID. 523 root of the subclavian and carotid arteries. But it is only for the cure of aneurisms in that situation that ligature of the innominate would ever be contemplated; and disease of any portion of this vessel —the seat of operation—would be a positively forbidden condition. In the case referred to, and in all instances of the less formidable operation above the sternum, the result has been fatal. Ligature of the Internal Mammary Artery.—G-oyraud, by whom this operation was first performed, gives the following directions for reaching the inteimal mammary artery:—"An incision, two inches in length, is to be made near the edge of the sternum, obliquely from above downward and from without inward, forming with the axis of the body an angle of forty-five degrees. The middle part of this incision should be three or four lines distant from the margin of the sternum, and in the centre of the sternal end of the intercostal space. (See Fig. 156.) Dividing successively the skin and sub-cellular adipose tissue, and then the great pectoral muscle, the intercostal space is exposed. An incision is then made in the same direction and over the entire width of the space of the aponeurotic layer, which continues the external intercostal muscle and the superficial fibres of the internal intercostal. With a grooved director, the fibres of the latter muscle are to be separated and torn through, and the artery and its two venae comites are laid bare at three Knes from the edge of the sternum, which separates these fibres from the pleura. Then, nothing is easier than to isolate the artery and to slide beneath it the curved end of an aneurism-needle, for passing the thread." But, with regard to this procedure, it should be observed that, simple as it may be on the dead subject and when the artery is injected, the circumstances under which the operation may be requisite, or deemed advisable, render it one of the most difficult in the practice of Surgery. Thus, in gunshot wound of the stei'uum, attended with profuse haemorrhage, apparently from the internal mammary artery, forming a large bloody swelling, with an accumulation of clots in the mediastinum,—then, indeed, the depth and relations of the vessel are altogether changed, although the peril to life may justify immediate interference. The case is similar to a false aneurism, as arising from. puncture of the gluteal artery just where this vessel emerges from the pelvis—the occasion for double ligature which suggested John Bell's famous procedure. But haemorrhage from the internal mammary artery may be more readily controlled by compression, as in the case of an intei*- costal artery ; a small bag being introduced over the wound, and then stuffed with lint, the bag is withdrawn so as to effectually compress the vessel against the posterior aspect of the sternum. Ligature of the Common Carotid.—Surgical Anatomy.—The right and left common carotid arteries differ only in part of their course; that portion of the latter vessel which extends from its origin on the arch of the aorta to the left sterno-clavicular articulation, or the thoracic portion of the left common carotid. But this part of the left carotid artery is never selected for ligature. The common carotid on the right side, and the cervical portion of the left common carotid, extends from behind the sterno-clavicular articulation to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage; whore it divides into external and internal carotid arteries. (Fig. 151.) The artery has an oblique direction upwards and outwards; corresponding