SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 412 the patient. Foreign bodies are eligible for removal, according to the patency of their situation, as their presence can then be ascertained with proportionate certainty; but the relation of surrounding parts will alfect the safety of an operation for extraction. Thus, when situated beneath the skin, although perhaps at some distance from the entrance-aperture, a bullet is readily detected and removed by an incision, longer than the apparent size of the ball, care being taken to steady the ball lest it slip away out of reach. The bullet is usually found to be more or less battered and misshapen, also tightly con- stricted and held fast by diverted threads of muscular, fibrous, or cellular texture; the missile, thus imprisoned, cannot be raised from its bed, and must be set free by touches with the knife, before it can be extracted, without further laceration of the textures and unneces- sary pain. A conoidal ball generally lies with its long axis sideways beneath the integument, and should be extricated in that direction. On the other hand, when the foreign body is situated deeply, and possibly already out of reach, its detection is less certain—unless it be a leaden bullet, the presence of which may be recognized by means of Nelaton's probe; and its extraction, in any case, by operation, will be less safely accomplished. The annexed form of bullet-forceps, Savigny's (Fig. 101), is specially serviceable for deep wounds. The blades unlock, and can be in- troduced separately, or used as a scoop. Cozeter's bullet-scoop (right object in Fig.) enables the Surgeon to fix the bullet by means of a screw. But when the foreign body is so placed that it cannot be distinctly localized, or should it be inaccessible surgically, the better rule of practice is to abandon any further research, as well as any attempt at operative interference. This injunction be- comes absolute in the case of a foreign body lodged in any internal organ. Sometimes a counter-opening affords a more ready access to the ball; and then, when extracted, the missile should be carefuUy examined, to ascertain whether it has been chipped, by coming in contact with bone, and that the fragment is probably left in the body ; or whether, judging from its misshapen, although unbroken appearance, the ball has struck bone, directly or obliquely, this relative direction giving a further indication as to the amount of injury which the bone has sustained. Certain difficulties attend both these questions. A conical ball is rarely split; and unless the ball retain its regular shape, or if disfigured, unless it be much reduced in size and weight, there will be great difiiculty in determining whether any portion has been knocked off. If, however, a piece has been left, bone must have been struck; and the fragment will be diverted from the course of the ball, so as perhaps to elude any further search. The misshapen appearance