614 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. springs. When it arises from tte posterior aspect of the vessel, towards the skin, popliteal aneurism has the usual heaving and expansive character; arising from the anterior aspect towards the joint, the aneurism raises the vessel more to the surface, and the pulsation is thrilling, the beat of the vessel also, in its course, being, perhaps, felt distinctly separate. Such was the case in a typical instance which I found in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons—a Hunterian specimen marked 1703, and which is here represented. (Fig. 142.) Fig. 141.* Fig. 142.t The pressure-effects of popliteal aneurism are, as with other aneu- risms, pain and oedema, preceded by some stillness of the knee-joint, and a semi-flexed position of the limb. Lameness is, indeed, often one of the earliest symptoms of the disease. The diagnosis is usually unequivocal. But the pain and inability to use the joint may be mistaken for rlaeumatism; and other tumours in connection with the popliteal artery have a pulsatile character trans- mitted to them—e.g., chronic abscess, a cyst, or solid tumour, in the popliteal space. The pulsation, however, is less expansive, the tumour incompressible, and it does not subside on pressure of the femoral trunk. Tbese differences disappear in the event of aneurism having * Case of large popliteal aneurism. (Author, Eoyal Free Hospital.) t In this aneurism of the popliteal artery, the figure exhibits a vertical section of the sac, and of the femur and tibia in the knee-joint; showing that the sac springs from the anterior side of the artery, and lies between the vessel and the back of the joint. The sac, now empty, was filled with coagulated blood. The course of the artery above and below is indicated by a piece of whale-bone withia the vessel; and thus the entrance and exit portions of artery are seen not to be opposite each other. Above, the artery is very much contracted, especially at the aneurismal orifice ; below, the artery would seem not to have transmitted blood into the posterior tibial, as a fine-glue injection did not pass out. Tlie inner coat of the artery was the seat of fatty degeneration; limited, however, to the portion of the vessel just above the aneurism, and extending into the interior of the sac, where the inner coat is similarly diseased. Below the sac, the artery appeared to be nearly in a healthy state. (Hunterian.)