TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 137 Varieties and Diagnosis.—Occasionally, the cellular capsule is thick, dense, and fibrous. Its prolongations may also become fibrous and firm. The whole substance of such a tumour is hard and compara- tively immovable, and although still circumscribed and lobulated, re- sembles a fibrous tumour. The lardacaous variety is of this description. Hard fibrous knots, as of the fibro-cellular stroma, or even bony nodules, can, occasionally, be felt within a tumour otherwise fatty. Or the mass may be, or become, softer than usual. Oleaginous fat, with but slight fibro-cellular partitions, presents the characters of a bag or cyst of fluid, and gives out the physical signs of a fluid encysted tumour. True cysts are, occasionally, developed in a tumour other- wise fatty; thus giving the consistence of roundish elastic bags of fluid set in a doughy substance. Still more rarely, suppuration occurs, centrally perhaps, within a fatty tumour, and forming a chronic abscess, simulates the character of a cyst. Lastly, the characters of any such tumour, purely fat or mixed, may be obscured by the depth of integuments beneath which it lies buried. But all these conditions are exceptional, and, excluding that of the occasional depth of the tumour, they are subsequent conditions also. Neither, therefore, will scarcely afiect the exactitude and the earliaess of diagnosis, by physical signs; the ordinary physical characters of fatty tumour being generally present, and exclusively indicating this kind of growth and no other morbid condition. Steatoma—a lard or suet-like variety of fatty tumour—is liable to occur in whatever part of the body this growth makes its appearance ; but steatoma has been found in some parts more especially ; among them, in the mesentery, testicle, and mediastinum. (Walshe.) Fatty tumour is usually a solitary growth; but in exceptional cases, several may co-exist from two or three, up to as many as a hundred, or more. I have removed several small fatty tumours from the same person. They were subcutaneous ; four in one arm, and one in the other. Situation.—Fatty tumour most commonly occurs in the subcutane- ous adipose texture, especially of those parts where fat normally abounds in the healthy state, and is liable to accumulate; as about the trunk, e.g., on the back, neck, and shoulder ; also over the buttock, the thigh, or abdomen; between the peritoneum and abdominal walls, escaping from which by the abdominal rings, it forms fatty hernia, so called. (Walshe.) This kind of tumour occurs more rarely in Synovial sacs, especially that of the knee-joint, or in the sheaths of tendons ; and in such situa- tions having a branched appearance, it forms the "lipoma arborescens" of Miiller. Fatty tumour may be produced where fat. is normally scanty, as beneath the hairy scalp ; or, where fat is normally absent; as in the sub-mucous cellular tissue of the stomach, the intestine, the bronchi; in the sub-serous cellular tissue of the pleura or dura-mater, and beneath the investing membranes of the ventricles. Also in the substance of organs ; especially in the lungs, liver, kidneys, and in' bone " affected with osteoporosis and eccentrical atrophy." (Roki- tansky.) Between the corpora albicantia and optic nerve, in one case. (Miiller.) A fatty tumour, the size of a mushroom, was found between the arachnoid and dura mater, on the level of the fourth lumbar ver- tebra. (Albers.) One as large as a walnut, in the walls of the vena