ANEUEISM OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 501 clavicle, atout ten months before admission to the Royal Free Hospital. Three months previously, he -was under treatment in the Newport Infii-mary, where compression of the subclavian, in the third part of its course, had been tried on three occasions, without any marked effect. When first I saw the man, in consultation with my colleague, Dr. Cockle, a careful examination of the chest led to the conclusion that the heart was much diseased,—notably by dilatation of the right ventricle, and a loud regurgitant murmur at the base; this con- dition, being coupled with dilatation of the aorta, indicated the pro- bability that the subclavian artery had undergone atheroma,tous and perhaps calcareous degeneration. There was also some occasional hfemoptysis. The pulsation of the tumour extended above as well as below the clavicle; and in the latter situation, the uniform surface and expansion of the swelling showed that the ribs had yielded. But the pulsation could be entirely stopped by compression of the artery above the clavicle, in the third part of the vessel, and just under the scalenus anticus muscle. Accordingly, having regard to the probably unsound state of the artery in that part, and the previous trial of compression, I resorted to pressure on the distal side of the aneurism, by means of a tourniquet on the axillary artery, the arm being bandaged from the fingers. This was continued for two or three hours, or as long as the patient could bear the pain, chloroform being unadvisable owing to the heart disease. But a repetition of this treatment, two or three times, having proved unsuccessful, I gave a final trial to compression on the cardiac side of the aneurism; digital pressure being applied, and continued by relays of assistants, on two occasions, for fourteen hours and eight hours; but without any perceptible result. I then resorted to galvano-puncture, using three insulated needles attached to a Foveaux's battery of eighteen cells. After one hour and a half, the tumour had considerably increased in size, but it felt more solid, and the pulsation less expansive. The influence of the current was therefore discontinued; and indeed the pain in the arm, bandaged from the fingers, had become almost unendurable; and the patient not being under chloroform, there seemed some risk that fatal syncope might occur. On leaving London (August 14th) for a fortnight, the case remained under the care of my colleague, Mr. William Rose; and as, in the course of a few days, the tumour rapidly enlarged and threatened to burst, he deemed it advisable, as a last resource, to ligature the subclavian. This was done in the third part of the artery. After four days, however, secondary haemorrhage occurred, and the vessel was re-ligatured a quarter of an inch higher up. In the course of a week, haemorrhage returned, and again the vessel was ligatured, yet higher up, beneath the scalenus. The pulsation in the aneurism, and in the radial artery at the wrist, was completely stopped by the first operation of ligature; but the patient rapidly sank, and died from exhaustion, with symptoms of pneumonia. Unfortunately, no post-mortem examination could be made, owing to the remarkably speedy decomposition which took place in a few hours; the body turning to a greenish-black colour, with general putrefactive emphysema. (From Report by Mr. Hamilton, Sen. Res. Medical Officer.) Ligature of the innominate artery has also been fatal, almost beyond hope. The results of the eleven cases in which this operation was per-