780 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (4.) Dislocation of the head of the tibia, hacJcwards; the head is situated partly upon the posterior half of the condyles of the femur, or it passes up and rests against the posterior aspect of their articular surfaces, according as the dislocation is incomplete or complete. Tho condyles of the femur project, proportionately, forwards. (Fig. 39.5.) In both the latter dislocations, (3 and 4), it is probable that tho ligaments and surrounding structures are similarly injured. Thus, in backward dislocation, the posterior ligament of the joint is torn, the muscles of the ham are stretched, and the popliteal vessels and nerves compressed. With complete dislocation, the crucial or inter- articular ligaments are also torn. Signs.—(1.) Dislocation laterally, inwards or outwards, presents opposite appearances. In the one, an unnatural swelling—the inner condyle of the tibia—on the inner aspect of the knee ; and another swelling—the external condyle of the femur—on its outer aspect. In the other dislocation or outwards, an unnatural swelling—the outer condyle of the tibia and head of the fibula—is found on the outer aspect of the knee ; and another swelling—the internal condyle of the femur—on its inner aspect. In both forms of dislocation, the leg is slightly flexed, or sometimes extended, and inclined inwards or outwards, towards the side of dislocation, but 7iot shortened in its long axis. Immobility, with inability to use the leg and severe pain, are present, as, more or less, in all dislocations. All these signs or symptoms were marked in two lateral dislocations; one of which occurred in my Hospital practice; the other, an outward dislocation, in the case of a lady, now intimately related to me, but who, at the time of the accident, many years since, was under the able care of Mr. Pitt, of Norwich. This case is recorded in the " American Journal of Medical Sciences," vol. xxxi. ; and it is also noticed in Hamilton's work. Mr. Pitt's patient quite regained the use of her leg; similar dislocation again took place about a year afterwards, and was reduced in the act of carrying the patient upstairs, by her foot accidentally getting entangled in the bannister-rails; it happened again about three months subsequently, when the knee jerked into place spontaneously; and I am happy to say that, excepting a slight weakness of the knee, she now suffers no inconvenience. (2.) Dislocation forwards or backwards also presents opposite ap- pearances. In the one, a large swelling—the bulky head of the tibia— projecting in front of the knee, with a deep depression immediately above it and the patella ; and another large swelling—the condyles of the femur—in the popliteal region. In the backward dislocation, a large swelling—the bulky head of the tibia—can be felt in the popliteal space ; and another large swelling—the condyles of the femur—in front of the knee, with a deep depression below in the situation of the ligamentum patellae. In both these forms of dislocation, the leg is flexed; in the one case, slightly back upon the thigh; in the other, extended or bent unnaturally forwards from the line of axis of the femur ; shortening also is conspicuous, if either dislocation be comjilefe, and varying in extent from one to two inches, or more. Severe pain, and swelling of the limb, may arise from compression of the popliteal nerves and vessels. ' Causes.—All these dislocations of the knee usually arise in like manner. Indirect violence is, perhaps, the most frequent cause; as