610 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. FiQ. 138.* other limb, is reduced ; and this distinction will aid in determining the diagnosis of a pulsating tumour. Causes.—A blow, strain, or other injury has seemed to be the im- mediate cause of inguinal aneurism, in some cases. Course and Terminations.—Restrained by the fascia lata, in the thigh, and by the pelvic fascia above, the tumour enlarges slowly, but may ultimately attain a large size. It is said never to become diffused, the fascia effectually circumscribing the aneurism; but it acquires a lobulated character under the unequal resistance thus offered to the increasing tumour. A spontaneous cure has been known to take place in a few instances. Treatment.—Compression on the External TLiac.—This proceeding is practicable in persons not too stout, and has proved suflHciently successful to encourage a repe- tition. Digital compression was effectual in a case under Mr. Fox, of the Pennsyl- vania Hospital ; the want of assistants, however, prevented him from thus com- pleting the cure. Another case—in St. George's Hospital—was entirely cured by mixed digital and mechanical compression. Distal compression succeeded in a case of fusiform ilio-inguinal aneurism under my care; the patient being a man seventy-five years of age, with a sonorous aortic cardiac murmur. Carte's tourniquet was used, just below the groin, and con- tinued for a period of some weeks ; when the aneurism had become consolidated so far as to transmit only the normal current of blood through the common femoral artery. Ligature of the External Iliac.—First performed by Abemethy, in 1796, this operation has since been practised in at least 100 oases, ac- cording to Norris's table. Of these, 73 were cured, and 27 died. In. 92 cases, the aneui-ism was seated entirely in the groin; and of these, 70 were cured, and 22 died. The causes of death were partly referable to the operation; namely, gangrene of the limb, in 8; secondary haemorrhage, in 4; sloughing of the sac, in 3 ; from tetanus, 3; and from more general causes, 4. Inguinal with popliteal aneurism of the same side co-existed in a few of these cases. This complication does not appear to lessen the efficacy of the operation. Of 4 such cases, liigature of the external iliac was successful in 3 ; the other one dying of gangrene, but the popliteal aneurism, in that case, was about to burst at the time of operation. In 118 cases of ligature for all pur- poses, including aneurism, 33 died; and in 30 of these, 13 died of gangrene, 6 of secondary hajmorrhage, 3 of sloughing of the sac, 2 of tetanus, 2 of prostration, 2 of peritonitis, 1 of diffuse inflammation, * St. Thorn. Hosp. Mus., Y. 96. Aneurism of the common femoral artery, right limb. Situated immediately below Poupart's ligament, the sac has a globidar form, and was about the size of a large wuluiit. On the posterior aspect—not shown— the sac is lai<l open ; the walls consist of an expansion of all the coats of the artery, with cartilaginous thickening in parts.