GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 256 Chancroidal bubo may acquire all the characters of some common ulcer; as the indurated and indolent, the irritable, the vnflamed, the phagedcenic, the serpiginous form of phagedaena, or the sloughing pha- ged(B')iic. The three latter forms of bubo, originally chancroidal, are more or less destructive; the ulcer sometimes increasing to an enormous size, extending inwards over the perineum, or upwards perhaps as high as the navel, or downwards on the thigh, while its depth may there threaten the femoral artery. Diagnostic value of Inoculation.—Does inoculation supply the positive test of Syphilis? The answer to this question will be yes or no, according to whether or not the so-called chancroid ulcer be acknow- ledged as a species of chancre. The failure of inoculation to reproduce a chancre upon a person already affected, affords only a negative result, as the evidence of pre-existing systemic infection, i.e., of Syphilis; and reproduction of the ulcer by inoculation indicates its locally con- tagious nature, i.e., its chancroidal character, as distinguished from chancre. Bearing in mind this negative and positive result of inocula- tion, we are prepared to understand, and to reconcile, the apparently contradictory results of observation respecting the question at issue. The virus or pus from a supposed chancre, or a suppurating bubo, being introduced beneath the skin of any part by a lancet charged therewith, produces another such chancre,—passing through the stages of a pimple, a vesicle or pustule, to the perfectly formed ulcer. Thence, in like manner, another such chancre may be produced. This power of reproduction was known to and used by Hunter, as a test of syphilis. But opinions have ever been divided respecting the diagnostic value of inoculation, just because the chancre and the chancroid ulcers may have been indiscriminately used in the cases submitted to this test. Evans, Bell, Sperino, and other observers have alike insisted on the value of reproduction by inoculation, in order to determine the specific natui'e of a supposed chancre; and Ricord, who almost accords to "induration" the rank of an absolute sign of the "infecting chancre," yet acknowledges that the individuality of this ulcer, as a distinct species, " exists neither in its form nor in its floor, nor in an absolute manner in any one of its external characters; its nature is in the pus which it secretes. Inoculation is the pathognomonic character of chancre, and which alone suffices to establish the diagnosis." But it is now known that Ricord's observations had reference to "simple chancre," aZms chancroid, or the local, contagious, and soft, suppurating ulcer. That, comparing the indurated and systemic-infecting, true chancre with this chancroid ulcer, as to the results of inoculation, in forty-four inoculations of the latter, on individuals already affected, thei-e were forty-four reproductions of the original kind of ulcer; but that in fifty-five inoculations of the former kind,—chancre,—there were fifty-five sterile results! Consequently, the answer of Inoculation as a diagnostic test, is; of chancroid, positive,—that it is auto-inoculable; of chancre, negative,—that it is not auto-inoculable. And this negative result of inoculation is so far available in the diagnosis of Syphilis. It is, therefore, probable that the supposed instances of positive result adduced by Dr. Sperino, were from simple suppurating sores, with some amount of accompanying induration. In ninety-nine cases of in- durated chancre, in only one instance did inoculation succeed upon the patient who thus had the disease, and that was within a very short