813 LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. and allow the limb to be straightened by gentle manual extension, aided perhaps by tenotomy of the hamstring muscles. Subcutaneous section of the bone in the vicinity of an anchylosed joint, offers another resource,.at least with regard to the hip-joint; as in Mr. W. Adams's operation—by division of the neck of the femur, subcutaneously; Dr. Rhea-Barton's and Dr. Sayre's operations—by section through the trochanters; or the operation which I proposed—section of the femur just below the trochanters. This procedure I have practised in two cases, and with successful results. Excision becomes justifiable after subcutaneous division has failed, or when that operation would be in- appropriate to correct mal-position of the limb. Thus, the removal of a wedge-shaped portion of bone, including a.n anchylosed joint, may be necessary to rectify an angular deformity of the limb, in the case of the knee-joint; a mode of excision introduced by Birch, of New York, and which I have practised with considerable success. Dr. Rhea- Barton had previously-proposed another mode of excision, under these circumstances—the removal of a wedge of bone from just above the condyles of the femur, and not quite including their entire diameter; the remaining portion of bone is then fractured by bending the limb backwards, so that the limb could be straightened. But the former angular position was retained at first by means of a corresponding splint, and the limb gradually extended before the period for bony union. Amputation will be warrantable only in the extreme case of a useless limb, and which cannot be made tolerably serviceable by excision. Loose Cartilages in Joints.—Small movable bodies occasionally form within a joint, and which may be quite free, or attached by narrow peduncles to the walls of the articular cavity. One such body sometimes exists, but not uncommonly two or three, and possibly many. In the left knee of a woman who died of apoplexy, Morgagni found twenty-five smooth and polished globular bodies. Varying in size from a barley-corn to a chestnut, they are roundish or flattened, elongated or tuberous. In consistence, colour, and structure, these bodies may be soft and of a yellowish colour, like little melon-seed masses of fibrine; or hard, whitish, and glistening, con- sisting of cartilage or fibro-cartilage; or con- verted into bone. Neither the term "cartilage" nor "loose" is, therefore, universally applicable. Any joint possibly may be the seat of these bodies ; but they occur usually in the knee, and less frequently in the elbow, shoulder, or lower jaw. They seem to arise from the vascular pro- cesses of the synovial membrane, as out-gi-owths of that membrane, projecting into the joint. (Fig. 428.) They remain connected, or be- come detached, and are liable to undergo the changes of appearances and structure above * St. George's Hospital Mus., Ill, 9. Synovial membrane of the knee-joint, exhibiting numerous excrescences, filiform or pedunculated, growing from the in- ternal surface of the membrane. These bodies are of a yelJowisli white colour and would a|)pcar to contain much fatty tissue. History of the case unknown' (B. C. Brodie, from "Heaviside's Museum.") Fig. 428.*