846 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Eqmno-varus, eqmno-valgus, cahaneo-vmus, and ealcnmo-vcdquR aro modifications of the typical forms of club-foot. The particular muscles contracted w, 1 be suggested hy each of these varieties of deformit^ JJut the muscles engaged are declared by the tension and prominent Fig. 473* Fig. 474.t rigidity of their tendons, as at once discovered by manipulative ex- amination of the foot, in the various attitudes it has assumed. (Fiss 473, 474.) ^ ^ ■ Practically, this knowledge guides the appropriate orthopsedic treatment; the manipulative extensions, the operations of tenotomy, and the mechanical appliances. For Fig. 475. equino-varus, to restore the foot to a normal position, Bigg's orthopede pro- mises to be a valuable instniment. (Fig. 475.) In all cases of talipes varus, or ■equino-varus—the latter class includ- ing many cases of relapsed varus, after failure of operative and mechani- cal treatment—the best practical rule is to divide the treatment into two, and in some cases three, stages. In the first stage the object is to overcome all inversion of the foot, and thus to convert the more complex de- formity into the simple form of talipes equinus. This may be accomplished in some cases by mechanical means alone, bandaging the foot for this pnrpose to a splint applied along the outer side of the leg and foot; in other cases, it is necessary to employ tenotomy, followed by the use of the outside splint, the anterior and posterior tibial tendons being divided. This stage will not occupy more than three or four weeks in infants, but may take two or three months in adults. In the secoiid stage, where talipes equinus alone remains, this may be cured by division of the tendo-Achillis, and the foot afterwards gradually brought into a natural position by the use of a Scarpa's shoe * Talipes equino-varus, with spasmodic contraction of tlie muscles. (After W. Adams.) t Tiilipes equino-varus, witli paralyiic condition of the muscles. (After W. Adams.)