GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 176 chlorate of ammonia, will freeze more thoroughly. The frigorific mixture should be circumscribed by gutta-percha or other pliant material, fashioned into a bowl around the part, with a tube to drain oft" the fluid as the mixture melts; and the process must be continued for some hours. (3.) Excision, or amputation, for the immediate removal of cancer, is the treatment most worthy of consideration. Grranting the local origin of cancer, and thence the subsequent infection of the system ; excision—as distinguished from any process of removal—is indicated, and at the earliest possible period. Hence also amputation, where practicable, may be preferable to excision—a partial operation, which may not thoroughly extirpate the disease. The delay of either opera- tion will assuredly allow the infiltrating course and adhesions of cancer to ensue, thereby rendering it locally impracticable or constitutionally useless. These pathological considerations suggest certain general reasons in favour of both excision and amputation, and their comparative advantages. (i.) Extirpation of the disease, entirely and permanently. This is very rarely accomplished. (ii.) Temporary removal of the disease, and thence a proportionate restoration of ease and health. This immunity is always gained. The period of non-recurrence varies; perhaps less than one, it averages two years. Early pei-formance of the operation may prolong this period to ten, fifteen, or twenty years. Such prolongation has been observed particularly in scirrhus affecting the breast. The experience of Velpeau and of Sir B. Brodie concur as to the long period of immunity which may be enjoyed. (iii.) Prolongation of life. Comparing the duration of life in cases without operation, and after. Sir James Paget states that, in the former case, the average period scarcely exceeds two years ; whereas, in the latter, it extends to about twenty-eight months. Mr. Moore goes much further, observing that in seventy-eight cases of cancer affecting the breast, not operated on, the average duration was 32-25 months; and in fifty-seven such cases the average was 63-2 months. Any estimate of this kind is liable to a twofold error; the selection of cases for operation is generally those most favourable to life, and the probable mortality of the operation itself. The latter varies from five to ten percent.; and albuminuria peculiarly predisposes to a fatal issue. Objections with regard to each of the three foregoing considerations may be raised as to the propriety of operative interference, but the same objections apply with equal or greater force to any kind of treat- ment whatever, in the course of a disease so, apparently, irregular as that of a cancer. The species of cancer affects the estimate as to the average prolongation of life, with and without operation. Thus, in Scirrhus, the relative periods may be stated as fifty-two months against forty-eight months, or even a still more advantageous difference (see Cancer of Breast) ; in Encephaloid, thirty-three months against twenty months; in regard to Colloid, the difference is undetermined; but, in Epithelial Cancer, the relative periods are, with operation, fifty- seven months, without operation twenty-seven months, or less than half the duration of existence granted by surgical interference. The conditions of cancer, or the cases which are respectively favour-