427 LIGHTNING. of webbed fingers, for example, the clamp is applicable. It was introduced by Brodhurst in 1861, and has since been employed by Tamplin, W. Adams, and other Surgeons with successful results. In aid of either mode of dealing with the cicatrix, tenotony may prove serviceable when tendons are involved. Another method of treatment consists in the transplantation, or perhaps the sliding, of a flap of healthy skin into the gap made by division and extension of the cicatrix, or the sui'face formed by excision. Very happy results have been attained by Teale, Mutter, and James in thus overcoming the deformity occasioned by burns of the face and neck. Eversion of the lower lip into the chin, a disfigurement attended with slobbering peculiarly revolting, may be remedied by Teale's operation. The everted lip is divided into three equal parts, by two vertical incisions, each three-quarters of an inch in length, and carried down to the bone. These incisions are so placed that the middle or intervening portion occujjies one-half of the lip. From the lower end of either incision, another is carried upwards to a point one inch above the angle of the mouth. The two flaps, thus indicated, are freely and deeply dissected up. The alveolar margin of the median 2Dortion is then pared. The lateral flaps are raised, united by twisted sutures in the middle line, and supported as on a base by the median flap, to which they are also attached by a few points of suture, leaving a triangular even surface to granulate. Gradual extension of the cicatrix from the sternum, and elevation of the chin, can be accomplished by means of a screw collar devised by Mr. James. Shin-grafting, according to the method of M. Reverdin, offers another resource—after division of the cicatrix, with extension—when the exposed surface has assumed the condition of a healthy granulating ulcer. Diseased conditions of the cicatrix have received sufficient attention in this work, among Morbid Cicatrices, in general. Erichsen notices particularly a projecting red and glazed cicatrix, looking as if com- ; posed of a mass of fungating granulations smoothed down and lightly : skinned over. This warty cicatrix—observable after burns about the ; neck and chest, more especially—resembles cheloid growth, but is re- 1 markable as being the seat of intolerable itching, not relieved by any t external application. Lai-ge doses of liquor potassae mitigate this I distressing symptom. But, if small and nan'ow, the cicatrix may be i dissected out; if large, it does not admit of removal without risk of ■ considerable hemorrhage, as the structure, though fibroid, is very vascular. Amjmtation is an operative resource unavoidable in certain external ■ cases. Complete destruction, by charring, of the whole substance of a limb leaves no alternative; or, as a secondary operation, it may become advisable under circumstances, locally and constitutionally, analogous to those resulting from other forms of injury. ^^*^ii™iNO produces effects in the direction of its course through the part struck, resembling the appearances of any ordinary burn; but the shock may suspend the functions of the nervous system, partially or generally, without any marked appearances of burn, and may thus also kill instantaneously. A stroke of lightning affecting the brain, knocks down the in- amdual with loss of consciousness; lasting from a few minutes to a ■longer period, in one case an hour and a quarter. Recovery shows