646 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the limb be rotated outwards, a line drawn from midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, down- wards to the inner side of the patella, will about indicate the direction of the vessel. An incision, in this line, three or four inches long and passing over the sartorius, leads to the artery in some part of the incision where that muscle crosses the artery. (See Fig. 165.) If the outline of the sartorius be perceptible, as in a thin person, the inner border of the muscle will be the best guide; along which the incision may be made. Dividing the skin and superficial fascia, and avoiding any large branch of the saphcna vein, the thin blui.sh-white fascia lata should then be cautiously divided or sHt up on a director to the same extent. A branch of the internal cutaneous nerve may now be seen, and avoided, lying on the sheath of the vessels. The artery, with the vein inclining from the inner side behind it—to gain the outer side—are to be gently separated; and the needle introduced between them. Proper care must be taken to avoid wounding the vein or including it in the ligature; and the usual precaution observed of testing the aneurismal pulsation, by compression with the finger on the presumed artery, before tightening the ligature. In Hunter's canal, the superficial femoral was originally ligatured by John Hunter for popliteal aneurism, in the operation which he introduced (see Pig. 165) ; but it is not practised now-a-days, on account of the difl&culty of reaching the artery in this the deep part of its course, compared with the facility of applying a ligature in Scarpa's triangle. Ligature of the Popliteal Artert.—Surgical Anatomy.—In con- tinuation of the superficial femoral, the pop- FiG. 166.* liteal artery extends from the opening in the adductor magnus, over the back of the lower third of the femur and knee-joint, to the lower horder oi the j)opliteus muscle; where it bifurcates into the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. It thus passes through the popliteal space or ham. (Fig- 166.) In direction, this artery inclines from the inner side of the thisrh—itS' lower third—to the middle of the knee-joint, posteriorly, and thence descends vertically to its termination. The depth of the vessel is greatest above the joint, and comparatively superficial over it, but deeper beneath the heads of the gastroc- nemius muscle, to the lower border of the popliteus. The popliteal artery lies at first opposite to, but not in contact with, the lower third of the posterior surface of the femur, which curving forwards occasions the interval; then, the posterior ligament of the knee- joint; and lastly, beneath the gastrocnemius, on the popliteus muscle, * Popliteal space—1. Popliteal vessels. 2. Internal popliteal nerve. 3. Ex- ternal popliteal. 4. Semi membranosus muscle. 5. Semi-tendinosus. 6. Biceps. 7 and 8. Heads of the gastrocnemius; short saphenous vein between, entering the popliteal vein. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)