627 LiaATURE OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. Ligature of the Lingual Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—Arising from the inner aspect of the external carotid, between the superior thyroid and facial branches, the lingual passes slightly upwards and inwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone; and above it, continues forwards beneath the hyoglossus muscle, at the interior border of which it gives a branch—sublingual—to the sublingual gland; and then terminates as the ranine branch, along the outer side of the genio- hyoglossus, extending to the tip of the tongue. Having this somewhat tortuous direction, the artery is comparatively superficial below and above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, in this part of its conrse being covered only by the skin, platysma, and fascia; but it is then, crossed by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles passing to the body of the hyoid bone, and the artery enters deeply beneath the muscles ; it is-concealed entii'ely by the mylo-hyoid, as well as overlaid in part by the hyoglossus. Besting on the middle constrictor of the pharynx, the vessel afterwards lies on the genio-hyoglossus muscle, beneath the hyoglossus, and in its course as the ranine artery under the tongue. The hypoglossal nerve, winding round the lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric muscle, passes upwards beneath it, and approach- ing the posterior margin of the hyoglossus muscle, the nerve is there situated above the lingual artery; continued over that muscle to its anterior margin, the nerve has become inferior, and there sinks into the fibres of the genio-hyoglossus muscle, the artery-ranine lying on the muscle. Operation.—The lingual artery can be more readily reached, if necessary, in the superficial part of its course; and the upper border of the great cornu of the hyoid bone will guide to the artery in an accessible situation. Having placed the head so as to expose the digastric triangle under the jaw, an oblique incision should be made from below the symphysis of the jaw, over the cornu of the hyoid bone, to the border of the sterno-mastoid. (See Fig. 152.) Dividing the skin, platysma, and fascia, any veins in the way and the tendon of the digastric may be drawn upwards, and the artery sought, above the cornu and below the nerve. Care must be taken not to penetrate the pharnyx—superior constrictor, on which the vessel here rests; and such caution is especially necessary, as the thin pharyngeal bag rises and subsides under the knife. Application of the ligature presents no special difficulty. Ligature of the Subclavian.—Surgical Anatomy.—The right and left subclavian arteries diifer only iii part of their course ; that portion of the latter vessel which extends from the arch of the aorta to the inner margin of the first rib at the root of the neek, or the thoracic portion of the left subclavian. But this part of the left subclavian artery is never selected for ligature. The subclavian on the right side extends from behind the sterno- clavicular articulation, and the cervical portion of the left subclavian from the first rib, outwards to the lower margin of the first rib; arching, in its course, over the apex of the lung and pleura, and passing between the Rcaleni muscles. Either artery, in this course, may be divided into three portions, for the convenience of description, surgically as well as anatomically. The first portion extends from the sterno-clavicular articulation—or first rib, on the left side—to the inner border of the anterior scalenus;