471 ANEUEISM, after operation, by inattention to position and temperature, or tbe pi'esence of any morbid condition which lowers the vitality of the limb, will severally tend to induce gangrene. It supervenes in a period varying from the third to the tenth day; but in rare cases, not until the thii-d week. (Porter.) Treatment.—So far as gangrene is due to the ligature, it cannot be prevented; but if due principally to interruption of the collateral circulation by pressure of the sac, this source of obstruction can be removed by the old operation of cutting down upon the sac, laying it freely open, and turning out the clot. At least two such successful cases, both of popliteal aneurism, are on recoi-d ; one by Lawrence, another by Benza. Other preventive measures, topical, dietetic, and medicinal, have already been noticed in refei'ence to the appropriate treatment after ligature. "With gangrene, as with recurring pulsation, amputation of the limb is our last resource ; and the operation must be performed above the situation of the ligature. (4.) Suppuration and sloughing of the sac is attended with the usual symptoms of inflammation—heat, pain, and throbbing. At length the integuments give way, and portions of clot escape, having various deo-rees of consistence and shades of blood-red colour. Then htemorrhage of fluid arterial blood occurs, either with a fatal gush, or recurring in small but increasing quantities. Which form of haemorrhage shall take place is apparently determined by the degree to which consolidation of the aneurism has advanced; and therefore, in a measure, by the time of its occurrence after ligature. The amount of hgemorrhage is regulated in like manner, it being most free and uninterrupted in the event of pulsation continuing or returning. The causes of suppuration and sloughing of the sac, and of hemor- rhage thence arising, in the course of aneurism, are any conditions unfavourable to the vitality of the sac. Hence, the large and increasing size of an aneurism, and the imperfect coagulating power of the blood therein, have this tendency. So also any external injury to, or irritation of, the sac. Considering these and other similar accidental circumstances, the period after ligature when suppuration may supervene is, obviously, very uncertain. It may happen at any time in the subsequent course of the aneurism. The average time is, perhaps, between the third and eighth weeks, but in a case of carotid aneurism recorded by Sir A. Cooper, suppuration occurred at the eighth month after operation. Comparatively few cases terminate fatally; probably not more than one in four, and then, generally, by haemorrhage. Treatment.—This will be guided by the state and result of suppura- tion. In the first instance, the sac should be treated as an ordinary abscess; only that when an incision is made, it should be free enough to turn out the whole of the clot. I did this with a successful result m the case of a popliteal aneurism, the sac having suppurated after ligature of the femoral. Any remaining portion of coagulumis likely to putrify and become a fojtid, purulent discharge; but when removed entirely, the sac is in a condition to heal from the bottom by granula- tion. Hcemorrhage, of course, is imminent. A tourniquet, therefore, loosely applied to the limb above, will be a judicious precaution which can be brought into use at any moment. In the event of hfemorrhao-e, lows of blood may be liuiiporarily stayed by a compress of sponge well