373 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. will he more and more doubtful, deatli perhaps ultimately taking place from exhaustion, or from some secondary alfection of a typhoid cha- racter. Arterial ho9morrhage is of greater consequence than venous. After death, the appearances presented are remarkably anemic; the surface generally blanched, of a yellowish white, semi-transparent cast, but the finger-nails, toes, and lips are congested and livid. Secondary haemorrhage is so named' where the bleeding occurs, or recurs, after an interval of a few hours, more or less, subsequent to the vascular lesion. (See Amputations—Stwmjj.} The Ha'morrhagie Diathesis signifies a constitutional predisposition, whereby the slightest breach of surface—a scratch or a prick—is attended with a persistent oozing of blood the blood-vessels apparently possess- ing no contractility, and the blood no power of coagulation. From "Wachsmuth's observations, it would seem that an exalted vitality of the blood, and a delicate organization of the capillaries, are the essential causative conditions. This diathesis is usually congenital, and perhaps hereditary, but it may be declared for the first time in adult life. Privations seem to induce the hjemorrhagic tendency, but it is often manifested in otherwise healthy constitutions, and apart from any adverse hygienic circumstances. Both sexes are equally liable, although in male children the haemorrhages begin earlier and are more fatal. Marriage on the male side does not appear to transmit the diathesis. If the bleeding be spontaneous, as often in epistaxis, it may be periodic. Ecchymoses in various parts of the body, and internal extravasations of blood, are apt to occur. Joint-affections also are not uncommon, simulating rheumatism, and which, temporarily control the tendency to hfemorrhage. Reparation.—If the artery be healthy, any lesion is uniformly dis- posed to heal by coagulation of the blood and the formation of a clot or clots so placed as to arrest the hasmorrhage; a temporary provision, followed by primary adhesion, or, possibly, adhesive inflammation, whereby the vessel is permanently secured and obstructed. But this process of coagulation and adhesion is modified chiefl.y according to the structural kind of wound—incised or lacerated, either of which may also be a partial or complete division of the artery. Then, again, the direction of the wound more particularly modifies the process of healing. (1.) An incised andpartial division, or di,punctured wound, of an artery is the simplest instance. (See Fig. 87.), If the direction of the cut be longitudinal or oblique, it will close more readily than a transverse incision, the edges of which gape and do not fall into apposition. The elasticity of arterial tissue longitudinally makes all the difference,, and in favour of that direction, aided also, in this case, by the circular contractility of the artery. The line of incision remains, closed; blood escaping coagulates betwixt the vessel and its sheath, forming a com-- press, assisted by any corresponding coagulum which may have formed outside the sheath. The relative positions of the apertures in the artery and its sheath are displaced somewhat by the formation of the intervening portion of clot-compress, thus further tending to arrest haemorrhage. But this clot-compress is a temporary provision only. Adhesion soon follows in the line of incision, the edges being in contact. A transverse cut, partly through the circumference of an artery, opens, the_ vessel contracting longitudinally by virtue of its elasticity. Ad- hesion cannot ensue. The aperture is closed by the effusion and