673 OSTITIS, OR INFLAMBIATION OF BONE. by the apparatus used for rupture o£ the tendo-Acliillis. Or, the tenclency to displacement and the more severe contusion may require the support of a Mclntyre's splint, used as a double-inclined plane. In this, and other fractures of the tarsal bones, passive motion should be employed in time to prevent anchylosis. Compoioncl fracture generally allows only of excision or amputation. But—as in regard to the hand—the removal of any portion of the foot should be guided by great circumspection and judgment; having due regard to the extent of the injured part, and the preservation of this valuable member. CHAPTEE XXXIII. DISEASES OP BONE. Inflammatiok OF Bone. Bone, or the Osseoits Ussue, with its investing Periosteum, and the jEn- dosteum or Medidlary Menibrane of long bones, are, severally, subject to Inflammation. But the pathology of Inflammation as affecting each of these structures is intimately associated, and they are commonly affected simultaneously, or consequently. It will, therefore, be more natural to describe in order, first, the structural alterations pertaining to Ostitis, Periostitis, and Endostitis, and then their diagnostic characters, causes, consequences, and treatment. (1.) Ostitis, or Inflammation op Bone.—The cellulo-fibrous net- work—the organic basis of the lamell93 in the compact and cancel- lated structure of Bone, with the vascular network ramifying in the Haversian canals and cancelli, is alone the seat of inflammation; the inorganic matter, superadded to the fibrous network in the process of ossification, not being subject to any perversion of nutrition or other vital change. The blood-vessels become enlarged—as shown by Yon Bibra— giving an injected red appearance to the portion of bone undergoing inflammation; and the fibrous matrix, probably, passes into a state of fatty transformation, as in inflammation of most other textures. The inorganic or earthy matter undergoes merely a disintegrative separa- tion from the fibrous matrix with which it was intimately connected, but retains its chemical composition, and is then absorbed. Such are the earliest structural and chemical alterations in the inflammation of bone. A change of consistence—softening—accompanies this fatty liquefaction of the organic matrix and unloosening of the inorganic matter. But the Haversian canals, lacunte, and canaliculi soon become the seat of disintegration and absorption, whereby these natural cavities are rendered more conspicuous under the microscope; or, opening into neighbouring cavities, irregular spaces are formed. The compact structure thus acquires a rarefied or porous character, present- ing the appearance of cancelli; while the cancellated portion is exag- gerated, as in the neighbourhood of necrosis, or death of bone, when 2x