789 DISLOCATIONS OF THE OTHER TARSAL BONES. point of tbo malleolus rests on the inner and posterior margin of the tuberosity of the os calcis. The astragalus is fixed in its new position by osseous union to the adjoining inner and lower surfaces of the os calcis. The peronei tendons appear to have slipped from behind the external malleolus, and to have moved in a deeply grooved channel of new bone formed by the side and in front of the lower part of the fibula. (J. Howship.) The OS calcis has also been found dislo- cated outwards from the astragalus and inwards upon the cuboid bone. But as verified by dissection, the following dislocation is worthy of notice :—" Dislocation of the os calcis and scaphoid bones hachioards from the astragalus." (Fig. 405.) This bone is tilted up, so that its head projects above the other bones of the tarsus ; the posterior part of the bone is depressed, and the articular sur- face, removed from the os calcis, corresponds with the posterior articular surface of the scaphoid bone, in which position it was firmly fixed. There is partial fracture of the external malleolus of the fibula, the fragment remaining attached to the external lateral ligament con- nected with the 03 calcis. The deltoid ligament, on the inner side of the joint, still maintains the connection between the tibia and the astragalus. These injuries were caused by a fall on the foot in at- tempting to get out of a gig; and, on examination, the dislocation was obvious, with some slight bruising of the skin over the displaced bone. Reduction was impossible; diffused inflammation followed, with slough- ing of the integument on the dorsum of the foot. Secondary amputa- tion and death. The deformity in these dislocations is sufficiently characteristic to indicate the nature of the injury, in either case. The Scaplioid and Globoid bones, together, may be dislocated from the astragalus and calcaneum upivards—the middle tarsal dislocation of Malgaigne. The foot is shortened, and the instep raised; presenting the deformity of club-foot. This injury also has arisen from a fall, -but on the ball of the foot. The cuboid bone alone may, it is said, be dislocated upwards, inwards, and downwards; but Malgaigne has found no case recorded of this displacement alone, unaccompanied with that of one or more of the other tarsal bones. The scaiylioid bone alone has been found dislocated from the cunei- form bones, its connection with the astragalus remaining undisturbed. The dislocation was compound, yet — after reduction — the wound healed rapidly, and recovery soon became established. Dislocation of the scaphoid from both the astragalus and cuneiform bones has occurred in several instances. The Guneiform bones may be partially dislocated, and without having separated from each other ; of which two or three examples are recorded. The internal cuneiform bono alone has been displaced in- wards. Sir A. Cooper saw two instances, in both of which the same » St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 212.