802 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, cnlar cartilage,* and which, inducing inflammatory softening, results in caries, followed by ulceration of the cartilages, and destruction of the joint. Hence, Dr. Sayre denies also the constitutional origin of the so-called scrofulous disease of a joint, or " white Fig. 413.t swelling," although this local condition of disease may sometimes occur in persons of an undoubtedly scrofulous diathesis, but simply as an " accidental accompaniment; " the disease arising from an intra-osseous extravasation of blood, in connection with injury to the joint, and thus being of traumatic origin. I do not find this new pathology vei*ified by any speci- mens of extravasations of blood in the articular ends of bone, coupled with clinical histories as of initial scrofulous disease of the joints thus affected. This disease is commonly situated in the articular ends of the long bones ; particularly the head of the femur, in scrofulous disease of the hip-joint; in tlie head of the tibia or lower articular end of the femur, in similar disease of the knee-joint; in the bones of the tarsus; in those of the carpus ; in connection with the elbow or shoulder joints, occa- sionally; and not unfrequently in the cancellous tissue of the bodies of the dorsal or lumber vertebras. Nor do these situations exhaust the list of bones liable to be affected by scrofulous caries. Signs.—Scrofulous caries of the knee-joint may be taken as typical of the general symptoms. The disease approaches very insidiously, being preceded by little or no pain. Some Fig. 414.t inability to use the joint—a limping lameness in walking—first attracts notice. A child, for example—the disease occurring commonly before puberty—drags his foot after him in walking. Weeks or perhaps months elapse ere pain is complained of ; and then only a trifling pain, intermittent, but fixed, and aggravated by any movement of the joint, or especially on jDercussion of the bone below, as of the foot in disease of the knee-joint. This pain increases as the disease progresses. At length a swelling of peculiar character forms around the joint, arising from infiltra- tion of the cellular texture with serum and lymph. A puffy, elastic swelling is thus pro- duced, which assumes a, globular while the skin retains its white colour, constituting the " white swelling " (Fig. 414) formerly recognized in Surgical works. This swelling becomes more conspicuous and apparently larger than it really is, owing to gradual wasting of the muscles above and below the diseased joint. Scrofulous * Orthopedic Surgery and Diseases of tlie Joints, 1876. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Miis., 1, 38. j Royal Free Hospital. (Author.)