668 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. in a case of tin or wood, Becured by cross straps ; the limb being sus- pended by a chain from two pulley-wheels which run upon a horizontal Fig. 278. Fig. 279. bar, supported by a light iron frame. Such is Salter's cradle-swing apparatus. (Fig. 279.) A double motion is thus allowed: a lateral swing, for ease of position to the body; and a motion in the axis of the limb, for the prevention of longitu- dinal displacement of the fragments, by any down- ward shift of position telling in that direction. Various other apparatus have been designed for the adjustment of fractures of the leg. A fracture-box, consisting of three splints— a leg-rest with foot-piece, and two supporting side- pieces—may be used and swung in like manner. Or, the limb having been flexed, and the fracture reduced, a well-padded external splint, corresponding in shape to this attitude, is applied; the splint extending from just above the knee, and having a side foot-piece; a short splint is placed on the inner side of the leg, reaching from the bend of the knee to just above the inner malleolus ; the whole is then secured by a roller-bandage, and the limb laid on its outer side, with the body also inclining to that side. This method of treatment was originated by Pott, and it is strongly advo- cated by Hamilton; for the alleged reasons, that displacement, with ultimate deformity, is thereby prevented—particularly as resulting from an inclination of the lower part of the leg,backwards—and thus also a tendency to ulcei-ation of the heel. But I have never expei'ienced any difficulty or unsatisfactory result, which could be fairly attributed to Mclntyre's splint, in the treatment of ordinary fractures of the leg; and the results have been, in many cases, most satisfactory,—no deformity being perceptible to the eye, nor could any in-egularity be felt on passing the finger along the tibia. The wire side-splints— devised by Bauer—form a very simple and efficient apparatus, padded with cotton wadding. They can be readily adapted to the form of the leg, and thus keep the fragments well adjusted. But I would recom- mend the additional prolongation of both splints around the sole of the foot, forming a foot-piece. (Fig. 280.) A roller-bandage, carried up