520 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 146. aperture is cut in this portion of the sheath. (Fig. 145.) The artery thus exposed through the aperture will be recog. nized by its whitish-yellow or fawn colour. Enclosed within the sheath, by the side of the artery, lies the small companion vein, or two such veins, vence comites, one on either side, in relation to a second-sized artery. It, or they, have a dark-blue colour, contrast- ing with the colour of the artery ; but an enclosed vein may be only partially visible through the small aperture in the sheath. A nerve also is sometimes enclosed, as the pneumogastric within the sheath of the carotid, but it has less immediate relation to the artery; while external to the sheath, the collateral nerve or nerves already referred to will be seen, in immediate relation to the artery. An aneurism-needle, armed with a waxed silk ligature (Fig. 146), is introduced through the aperture in the sheath, between the vein and artery, and tui'ned round the latter (Fig. 147) ; their cel- lular connection having, previously, been gently separated, if necessary, by scratching with the point of the needle. The ligature is drawn out from the eye of the needle, and the needle itself withdrawn ; leaving one end of the thread on either side of the artery. Special care should be observed not to slide the ligature up and down the artery, nor to lift up the vessel much from its bed; whereby, in either Fig. 147. way, the nutrient vasa vasorum would be cut or torn off, endangering sloughing of the vessel and secondary haemorrhage. The ligature should be tied transversely round the artery (Fig. 148), as an oblique direction of the noose would be liable to loosen ; the ends of the thread must be drawn moderately tight, so as to divide the two inner coats of the vessel, and then the thread tied again, foi-ming a reef-knot. (Fig. 149.) It must be observed in these proceedings, that the vein be not wounded or transfixed, nor any adjacent nerve included in the hgature