611 FRACTUKES OF THE FACIAL BONES. •some degree, however, usually results, eitlier from the fracture having been overlooked, or owing to the difficulty of maintaining adjustment. But exfoliation of portions of the bones, with a foetid discharge, may prolong the recovery for some time. In one such case, under my care, the patient having broken his nose by a fall, he subsequently received some further damage from the brim of his hat being accidentally thrust over his brow in getting out of an omnibus. The angular depression, where the formerly prominent bridge of his nose had been, and the upturned or snubbed extremity of the nose, gave him an unhappily conspicuous appearance. Shortly, a foetid discharge commenced, and continued so profusely, as to run downwards into his throat when he lay down, or from the nostrils when he sat up. This offensive condition, with a clasping, bewildering pain across the forehead, and constant sleeplessness or horrid dreams, made his life miserable. Exfoliation of portions of bone, from time to time, gave him occasional relief. Treatment.—Without displacement of the bones, cold lotions or other applications, to subdue the inflammatory swelling, will be the only interference requisite. With displacement, the bones must be ad- justed by a little manipulation externally, and within the nostrils by means of a director or other such instrument. Compresses should then be applied to retain the bones in position. Persistent licemorrliage can be arrested only by plugging the nares, posteriorly and anteriorly, irrespective of any immediate consideration for the fracture. This proved effectual in the severe case of the policeman. The fracture may be adjusted in the course of a few days. JUxfoliation of the bones, and discharge, must be treated according to circumstances. Alum injec- tions, and the administration of iodide of potassium, proved signally beneficial in the case above referred to; although the history of the gentleman—a married man, and beyond middle life—gave no evidence of any syphilitic antecedents. Union, with malposition, whether by lateral displacement or depression, as a " broken nose," is very unsightly. But this deformity can sometimes be overcome by Mr. W. Adam's procedure—the forcible straightening of the displaced nasal bones, septum, or cartilage with a strong pair of forceps. The parts should then be retained in position, by the patient wearing a steel screw-com- pressor, applied so as to support the septum; one blade being placed in each nostril, and the screw tightened just enough to hold the blades in contact with the septum, but without pressure upon it. This apparatus is removed after two or three days, and replaced by ivory plugs, to maintain some distension of the nostrils and support the septum. These plugs can be readily used by the patient. To support the nasal hones, nothing can be worn within the nostril, high up, owing to the small size of the cavity and the sensitive nature of the lining membrane, at that part. The retentive apparatus, externally, consists of a pad adjusted by cog-wheels, attached to a steel head-band ; form- ing a nose-truss. Successful results of replacement have been obtained after deformity of months' or even of years' duration. (2.) Fractuee of the Septum Narium—occurring in connection with, fracture of the nasal bones—may also happen, separately. The fracture generally takes place in the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, adjoining to the vomer, and is produced by a blow or fallen the nose,insufficient to break the nasal bones. Displacement of the cartilaginous portion of the septum is, however, the more frequent form of lesion; the septal