ANEURISM. 481 ligature; it leads into another cavity, the intervening aneurism, which must now, in its turn, be laid open, at the bottom of which there is another aperture, opposite to the former one; and that aperture, lead- ing into the artery, is the one, on either side of which the vessel must be secured The application of the ligature is often a proceeding of some diflBculty also; owing to the dilatation of the artery on the cardiac side, and its equally contracted state below the aneurismal aperture. In an aneurismal varix from wound of the femoral artery and vein. Professor Pirrie found the former vessel enlarged to the size of a portion of small intestine. Considering the difficulties of this apparently simple operation, it has been proposed, by Roux and Fergusson, to apply the ligatures without opening the sac. The objection to any operation by double ligature is the risk that, in curing the lesion itself, gangrene or hgemoi'rhage will more probably super v^ene than when it is allowed to take its natural course. Other kinds of treatment have been proposed, but less in accordance with pathology, and practised, therefore, with less success. Thus, galvano-imiicture has proved effectual; in one case by Bosse, in another by Capeletti, but through suppuration; and a third instance of cure is recorded by Debout. The perchloride of iron injection was tried by Serres d'Alais, Jobert, Yallette, and Valpeau; in two cases only with complete success; in a third suppui'ation effected a cure ; and a fourth case was altogether unsuccessful. CHAPTER XXVI. ANEURISM, IDIOPATHIC AND TRAUMATIC, OF SPECIAL ARTERIES. Arch or Aorta. Aneurism.—Symftoms.—In the early stage of aneurism affecting any portion of the thoracic Arch of the Aorta, the symptoms are singularly absent or equivocal. A bellows murmur, or an extension of the second sound of the heart over a * certain area, with some dul- ness on percussion, may be the only discoverable symp- toms to arouse suspicion. Any tumour or pulsation externally is quite imper- ceptible, excepting with reference to three portions of the arch. (1.) The anterior aspect of the ascending aorta.— Pulsation maybe perceptible by pressure between the in- ^ tercostal spaces on the right side of the ster num, simulating the cardiac impulse, in addition and opposite to the seat of the true beat of the heart. As the aneurism increases, a tumour presents externally. (Fig. 122.) * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1658a. (John Gay.)