486 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERr. Fig. 126.* On the left side, at the root of the neck, aneurism of the aortic arch may simulate aneurism of the vntra-thoracic portions of the common carotid or subclavian arteries, which are not themselves subject to aneurismal dilatation in this portion of their extent. I have met with only one intra-thoracic aneurism of this kind, as verified by dissection. (Fig. 126.) Pressure-effects.—Aneurisms of the innominate artery, and of the commence- ment of the carotid and subclavian arteries, produce the same pressure- effects—varying in degree—owing to their similar relations, for the most part, to surrounding structures. These effects have also a general resemblance to those produced by aneurisms of the aortic arch. They are—dyspnoea, dysphagia, en- largement of the veins of the neck and right arm, with oedema and pain. Dyspnoea arises from the mechanical effect of pressure on the trachea, and in the case of innominate aneurism, pos- sibly on the right bronchus; or from pressure on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve. The latter occasion of dyspnoea is accompanied with some husky modification of the voice, or loss of voice, paroxysmal cough, and slight mucous expectoration. Dysphagia may be more or less complete. Venous obstruction is evinced by enlargement of the external jugular vein, the veins of the arm, and those below the clavicle in front of the right side of the chest. CEdema supervenes in the right eyelids, face, and head, and in the hand and arm. The fmin has the usual heavy excavating character, in connection with the tumour, and acute inter- mittent character from varying pressure on the cervical and brachial plexus of nerves; this pain shooting up the right side of the neck, head, and face, spans the shoulder and front of the chest, and radiates down the arm to the hand. Some loss of muscular power in the right arm commonly supervenes. The diagnosis from Tumours—not aneurismal—at the root of the neck, must be guided by the differential characters already described in connection with Aneurism. * Eoyal College of Surgeons Mus., 1669. The specimen, in this case, exhibits an aneurism situated immediately beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery ; the upper wall of the aortic arch being there dilated into an aneurismal sac of an oval shape, flattened before and behind, and about three inches in its principal diameter. The sac was formed of all the coats of the artery, but the walls were very thin, and the mouth of the sac was as large as the canal of the aorta. No coagulum had been deposited. The position of the sac must have allowed the current of blood to have passed from the transverse portion of the arch, strnight into the sac. Thus, the sac being constantly pressed towards the left, backwards, and somewhat downwards, its lower margin overlaid the lower part of the aortic arch, about an inch beyond the origin of the sac; and by this pressure, the aorta beciimo bent at and near the part to which the ductus arteriosus is attached. The remaining portion of the aorta and the heart are of their normal size.