107 INFLAMMATION. may be secured by L'gature, torsion, or acupressure. A lint-pad is, however, usually applied; and this answers best, as the vessel rests on the fascia and temporal bone, the temporal muscle only intervening. The pad is fixed firmly in position by a double roller bandage, carried round the bead, twisted over the compress, and fastened under the cbin. Purgatives not only remove feeculent matter, which would otherwise be a source of irritation affecting also a large extent of intestinal mucous membrane, but their operation is depletory by inducing the discharge of serum from the blood. Purgatives are, therefore, a useful adjunct to, or even a substitute for, general blood-letting, in relieving vascular tension. Different kinds of purgatives appear to act on different portions of the intestinal tract; and hence a combination of these medicines may prove more efficient than any one alone. Salts and senna, jalap and rhubarb, are familiar examples of such com- binations. It would be very desirable to acquire more extensive and exact knowledge respecting the action of purgatives for this purpose. But they probably have also different selective powers, in promoting the discharge of different constituents of the blood, and various effete or noxious matters; thus affecting the quality as well as reducing the quantity of the blood in circulation. Here, more especially, further clinical observation would be bighly desirable. Besides removing irritant matter, and having a depletory and an excretory operation, purgatives are said to have a derivative action, apparently by inducing hyperasmia of the intestinal mucous membrane. In this way they are supposed to antagonize inflammation of the brain, for example. But it is a kind of action which prohibits the continued use of purgatives, lest intestinal inflammation be superinduced. The purgative operation of mercury is referable to its agency in promoting the secretion of bile,—itself a natural purgative. Besides, however, having this effect, the " cholagogue" action produced by larger doses of mercury is equivalent to general blood-letting as a depletory, and superior as an excretory, remedy; for the copious spinach-like evacuations produced are equally effectual in reducing vascular tension, and are specially excrementitious, without unnecessarily diminishing the quantity of blood in circulation. Calomel, in doses of five, ten, or twenty grains, and repeated as occasion may require, is perhaps the best cholagogue. The action of mercury on the liver as a secreting and excreting organ, suggests a general inquiry respecting the action of other purga- tives, specially on the glandular apparatus of, or associated with, the gastro-intestinal organs. What medicines specially affect the secretion of the pancreas ; what, with regard to the glands of the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane, namely, the tubular, the cardiac, and the lenticular glands of the stomach; the glands of Brunner, the crypts of Lieber- kuehn, and Peyer's glands, of the smaU intestine; and the innumerable follicles of the large intestine ? Biajyhoretics and diuretics, medicinal agents which increase or alter the secretions of the skin and kidneys, respectively, are purgatives in their way. They are depletory, excretory, and derivative. Such is the acetate of potash, a diaphoretic, and the nitrate of potash, a diuretic. Little or nothing is known of these, and similar medicines, in their