405 GUNSHOT WOUNDS. but a reddist discolouration of tlie integument, the tougli and elastic nature of the skin having offered suflB.cient resistance to prevent the formation of a second opening; in v?hich case, the ball can be felt lying under the skin, at a point about opposite to the entrance-aperture. These differential characters depend chiefly on the diminished velocity of the ball after its passage through the substance of a limb or the body. Consequently, the appearances of the entrance-opening vary somewhat in different cases, chiefly according to the speed of the ball; and its features may resemble those of the exit-aperture. A larger penetrating body than a bullet, and one of an irregular form, as a small piece of shell, produces an opening similar to that of a bullet; but it is more lacei'ated and less circular, of small size also as compared with the fi-agment, this peculiarity resulting from the slanting direction in which it penetrates. Generally there is no exit-aperture; such a pro- jectile lodges, owing to its comparatively less momentam. A still larger penetrating body and of an irregular shape, as a larger fragment of shell, produces an aperture yet more lacerated, and of even smaller size as compared with the fragment. It also not unfrequently lodges. A large-sized projectile, as a cannon-hall, may penetrate and pass through the body, producing an entrance and an exit aperture, which resemble those caused by a smaller projectile, as a bullet; only that the characters of either aperture are presented on a much larger scale. If, however, such a projectile as a cannon-ball strikes one of the extremities, it carries away the entire limb, as if transversely amputated j leaving a contused stump, purple and pulpified. The stump is less abruptly truncated and more lacerated^ if the ball impinge with diminished velocity, as when bounding along the ground it strikes off a limb. In both these forms of cannon-shot injury, the ball im- pinges in a direct line. If a cannon-ball strikes the body in a slanting direction, thus brushing the surface, and especially if, when moving with a greatly diminished velocity, it rolls over the part; in either case, the skin may not be broken, its elasticity apparently preserving that texture entire, and scarcely any discolouration marks the course of the ball. But the gravest subcutaneous disorganization of other textures is produced; even to the pounding of muscles, vessels, nerves, and bone, or of the viscera. Such internal lesions, unaccom- panied by any corresponding external signs, were formerly known as "wind-contusions," and attributed by French authors to the "vent de boulet." Hcemorrhage of an arterial character may attend a gunshot wound; and sometimes proves fatal almost instantaneously. A gush of arterial blood is seen, and then and there a pallid corpse. Generally, however, the accompanying laceration secures the vessels, as already described (Chapter XVI.), and prevents the escape of any considerable quantity of blood, at the time of injury. The shape of the projectile will modify in some degree the amount of laceration, a sharp-pointed or angular missile cutting rather than tearing the textures ; but the velocity of the missile is more effective; for a ball moving with great rapidity is more cleanly incisive, whereas a slow-moving ball lacerates and closes the vessels in its course. Haemorrhage will be more or less free, accord- ingly. Partial division of an artery is attended with profuse bleeding, as retraction cannot take place. Puncture by a spiculum of bone, occasionally, will cause primary heemorrhage; but a buUet may pass