8 FitMicaiions by Bailliere, Titidau, and Cox. The Nature and Treatment of Rabies or Hydrophobi&j and those diseases resembling it. Being the Report ot the Special Commission appointed by the Medical Pi-ess a7id Circular, with valuable additions, ^s. " The most valuable and complete Treatise on the subject; one which we can highly recommend."—Veterinaryjfournal. "This laborious work is a credit alike to the writers, and the journal which first published it."—77^6' Doctor. The Sewage Question: a Series of Reports. Being Investi- gations into the condition of the Principal Sewage Farms and Sewage Works of the Kingdom, from Dr. Letheby's Notes and Chemical Analyses. 4^. dd. " These Reports will dissipate obscurity, and, by placing the subject in a proper light, will enable local authorities, and others interested in the matter, to perceive the actual truths of the question, and to apply them practically." Notes on Nuisances, Drains, and Dwellings: their De- tection and Cure. By W. H. Penning, F.G.S. Second Edition, dd. "The directions, which are plain, sound, and practical, will be found useful in every household."—The Doctor. " This little pamphlet should be studied by everybody."—Scientific Review. flow to Avoid Typhoid Fever and Allied Diseases, with plain rules on house drainage, &c. By Arthur H. DowNES, M.B., M.D. • Typhoid Fever: its Treatment. By William Bayes, M.D., L.R.C.P. xs. Experimental Researches on the Causes and Nature of Hay Fever. With Woodcuts and Lithographic Tables. By Charles H. Blackley, M.D., M.R.C.S. 7^. "It is a piece of real honest work, original and instinctive, and will well repay perusal."—The Lancet. New Observations on Hay-Fever, with Additional Ex- periments. An Addendum to the above. By the same Author. IS. Diagnostics of Aural Disease. Second Edition, with a Chapter on the Application of Electricity, and Description of the Author's Magneto-Electric Catheter. Bv S. E. Smith; M.R.C.S. Illustrated, 2s. 6d. Deafhess : its Causes and Treatment, with the Anatomy and Physiology of the Organ of Hearing. By John P. Pennefather, M.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S., &c, 2nd edition, 2s. 6d.