DISLOCATION. 719 The muscles are not excited to spasmodic action, as tliey would be were force directly applied to the dislocated bone ; and besides this negative advantage, there is also the positive advantage of a longer lever, wherewith to act on the dislodged head of bone. The English School, represented hy Pott and Sir A. Cooper in this branch of Surgical Practice, and supported by equally distinguished Continental Surgeons, as J. L. Petit, Daverney, Malgaigne, and Callisen, have advocated extension directly, from the dislocated bone. Thus, from the arm, when the humerus is dislocated; from the thigh, when the femur is dislocated. This direct application of extending force avoids endangering the intervening joints, and tells more eifectually on the dis- placement. Certain it is, also, that a long lever is not requisite for any truly surgical purpose. If the muscles be relaxed, no such mechanical advantage can be necessary ; if not relaxed, muscular contraction can be so directed as to eventually complete the reduction without the aid of a long lever. Moreover, assuming the obvious advantage of a semi- flexed position of the proximal joint below the dislocation, this position will necessitate the application of any extending force directly to the dislocated bone. Counter-extension is most effectual when applied as directly as possible, namely, from the surface corresponding to the dislocation. Supposing counter-extension to be rightly adjusted, extension should be made first in that direction which the bone has assumed by dislocation. The head of the bone is thereby made to retrace its course, and is finally replaced without any additional laceration of the textures. Then, again, the extending force should be equable, not jerking, and gradually increased; accompanied, of course, by counter- extension, equal, and in the opposite direction. Any voltmiary muscular resistance on the part of the patient, during reduction, is subdued by diverting his attention. A question now and then, as to how the accident happened, may answer this purpose, if no other; and by inducing our patient to speak, we overcome any advantage which the muscles attached to the thorax would otherwise have, were the chest fixed, as when the breath is held. This point of practice will obviously be important in reducing dislocation of the shoulder-joint. Tonic muscular contraction is most surely overcome by the slow inhalation of chloroform ; but this should not be resorted to in the first instance. Supposing increasing-extension prove in- effectual, and that any further degree of such force would, or might, endanger-the muscles, nerves, or vessels; then only, in my opinion, is the administration of chloroform justifiable, for then only is the occa- sional peril of its action warrantable as our next resource. We thus steer clear of two risks : the former concerning the limb ; the latter, the life. But if we fail at the time of our first attempt, and followed up with the relaxing aid of chloroform; what then ? I omit the objec- tionable measures formerly resorted to; nauseating doses of tartarized antimony, and the perhaps irrecoverable loss of the vital fluid by copious venesection, in the erect position and from a large orifice to speedily induce cerebral syncope. The warm bath may prove suffi- ciently relaxing ; but this failing, we are compelled to accept the only alternative, that of waiting until the immediate consequences of exten- sion have passed off, and then to renew it; aided by the repetition of chloroform, the warm bath, or both these relaxatives, successively.