GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 800 blood-poisoning accruing from the non-elimination of various excre- mentitious matters. The blood itself has undergone serious changes of chemical com- position, probably; of physical properties and vital endowments, certainly. It has less plastic |iower, coagulates imperfectly and less readily. Hence, the more fluid blood is apt to transude, minute hiBmoiThages take place in various textures, and the gastro-intestinal mucous membrane is stained with a reddish tint. Pygemic pus often appears in the form of a thin, sanious, or oily fluid, abounding with exudation corpuscles, and characterized also by a proportionate absence of pus-cells; but the chemical composition of this fluid has not been found to differ from that of healthy pus. Se^pticcemia is manifested by essentially the same symptoms,— prostration, coma or delirium, with profuse rank perspiration and diarrhoea, all which indicate the operation of some blood-poison, and apparently the secretive effort of nature to eliminate it. But, accord- ing to Billroth's description of septic poisoning, the initial chiUs, with increased temperature, are very rare, and they never occur in the course of acute septictemia; later in this disease, the temperature falls to the normal standard, or even below it. The pulse dwindles down to a mere thread, and in a state of perfect collapse, the patient dies in twenty-four hours, although life may be prolonged for a week or two. Death may occur in an early stage, with rising temperature. Sometimes the disease runs its course with an abnormally low tempera- ture, especially in enfeebled or aged persons. After death, the subcutaneous cellular texture is often found in- filtrated with bloody serum, or purulent matter, accompanied with gangrene of the skin in parts. But the internal organs are usually free from secondary abscesses, although congested and softened as in most blood-diseases. Peyer's glands in the ileum and jejunum may be swollen, when there had been profuse diarrhoea; and perhaps the serous membranes exhibit sero-pnrulent effusions, as from a low form of pleuritis and pericarditis. The blood—as, for example, in the cavities of the heart—is in a state of imperfect coagulation, consisting of sizy clots, or fluid, like treacle. No peculiar morbid alterations are found in the composition of the blood. SeTptopycemia is so named by Heuter, to denote a mixed state of infection, arising from the entry of decomioosed pus into the circula- tion, and attended Avith a combination of the symptoms of septicaemia and pyeemia. But while the distinction of these states of infection is often impracticable, their admixture cannot be recognized as a separate disease. PatJwlogy of Pycemia.—Having stated the leading facts relative to pyremia as at present known, and its local consequences; what is the nature of the blood-condition or systemic infection, and what is its relation to the formation or production of the secondary abscesses ? First, as to the nature of the blood-condition. The several kinds of infection, already alluded to, have been more or less accredited by different observers. (1.) Purident infection.—The cii-cumstances under which pyasmia arises would lead to the inference that during life iniH itself, as hund fide pus, has entered the circulation, either by sup- purative inflammation of the veins, occasionally of the lymphatics, rarely of the arteries; or by absorption through the veins, aided by