820 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lateral curvature of the spine, psoas abscess, abscess near the joint, inflammation of the bursa under the psoas-iliac muscle, or of the bursa over the great trochanter, trochanteric periostitis or ostitis. But the concurrence of symptoms, and as compared with those of each'of these diseases, -will terminate the diagnosis. Thus, the distinction of hip- joint disease from dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii, has already been adverted to in this b'ght. If the shortening, flexed and inverted attitude of the limb, as two signs of hip-joint disease, be taken alone, it might so far resemble dorsal dislocation, apart from the concurring signs of a wasted appearance of the limb, coupled with obliquity of the pelvis, and twisted lordosis of the lumbar spine, all of which signs are absent in dislocation on the dorsum ilii. When dislocation bas taken place from disease, the additional signs of abscess, generally in the buttock, followed by sinus-openings in the situations already noticed, are diagnostic. The history of the case, as having the progressive character of disease, or as one of sudden violent injury, must always be further taken into account. In young subjects, bowever—in whom disease of the hip-joint is more commonly met vnth—congenital dislocation of this joint is more likely to be the question of diagnosis. The joint is imperfectly de- veloped ; and the loose gait of the child attracts attention, the move- ments are painless, and the dislocation is readily reduced, but it as easily returns,—tbe small, stunted femoral head slipping in and out of the shallow, misshapen acetabulum, being unsecured by a round Hga- ment, and not restrained by the large and incomplete capsule. Infantile paralysis, with wasting and defective growth of the limb, will also be recognized as a peculiar affection, in relation to the differentiation of bip-joint disease. Sprain of the hip-joint simulates disease of the joint so far as to be attended with a painful, limping lameness ; the bip is raised and the limb flexed, perhaps everted ; and in the course of time, there may be more or less wasting of the buttock and thigh ; all these symptoms arising from tbe pain provoked by any attempt to use the limb, in standing or walking. But, while the pain is more acute than that which the patient complains of in the early stage of hip-joint disease, the bip is raised, as if the limb were shortened o^ the affected side ; and in a later stage of sprain, the limb still retains its natural length,—there is no real shortening. Here, also, the ante- cedent history of an injury will enter into the. Surgeon's consideration of the case, but as a less important factor; for a sprain might give rise to disease of the hip-joint. Interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur might readily be mistaken for disease of the hip-joint. Arising from a fall on the trochanter, absorption of the neck of the bone proceeds slowly, and is attended with shortening of the limb. But the inverted position, seen in disease of the joint, is wanting to complete the resem- blance. Pathologically considered, the state of the part is very different, interstitial absorption of the neck bemg * From Listen. Fig. 436.*