GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 401 and the arrest of hasmorrhage. Failing in most cases to induce ad- hesion, the process of suppurative granulation is the alternative to be solicited, as in the usual treatment of a contused or lacerated wound. A weecZZe-punctured wound, although trivial in itself, is apt to pre- sent some difficulty in the extraction of the foreign body ; the needle being driven in entirely, or having broken off, leaving a portion embedded. This complication may be increased by the locality of the needle; when near to large vessels and nerves, as in the axilla, and movable in cellular texture; or impacted in a large joint, as the knee; or thrust into or under the sheaths of tendons, as in the fingers and toes. I have experienced more or less difficulty in removing a needle from either of these situations. The point, or the end of the broken portion, may perhaps be near the puncture-wound, and it can some- times be detected by the pain produced on slight pressure over the spot, or a pointed projection under the integument may be felt; but the needle easily shifts its position, and thus evades seizure with a fine pair of forceps. Careful dissection, with light sponging, will at length expose a black point, which when seized with the forceps is found to be metallic, and then the foreign body is readily extracted. Needles which have been swallowed, migrate through the coats of the stomach or intestine, and work their way into all parts of the body, at last perchance coming to the surface in some quite unsuspected situation. Under any circumstances of doubt, if a needle be impacted, or have come to the surface, its presence may be declared by the magnetic method, devised by Mr. John Marshall; the suspected part is brought. under the influence of a powerful magnet for a quarter of an hour, then, on suspending over it a polarized needle, some deflection would indicate the presence of iron. CHAPTER XVIII. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. Gunshot "Wounds.—Strttctural Condition.—Oi Complicated Injuries, none are more interesting and important than Gunshot Wounds. But they chiefly concern the Military Surgeon, although the general Surgeon is occasionally called upon to undertake the charge of such injuries in civil practice. It will, therefore, be doubly necessary to fully consider the guiding elements of their pathology and treatment. Gunshot wound is, essentially, a contused and lacerated wound; but varying in extent and depth. The latter element is always a critical consideration. Other kinds of wound—the incised, and the purely contused or lacerated—may, indeed, be thus complicated; but a gun- shot wound is usually characterized by one or other of these additional elements. Structures may thus be injured far beyond what appears to be the extent of injury, in connection with the aperture or apertures in the integuments. If any part, as a limb, be shot away entirely, as by a cannon-ball, the extent of injury is more openly declared. Thus 2 D