761 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. obstacles of ligaments or tendons having already given way as part of the injury. The wound slaould then be closed, and the joint fixed, as in ordinary compound dislocations. Generally, however, the extent of injury requires some operative interference. Excision of splintered portions of bone, or amputation of one or more fingers, may therefore become unavoidable alternatives. The preservation of the thumb, and perhaps of the little finger with it, is always a consideration of para- mount importance. This remnant hand will serve the useful purpose of a hook, or of prehension by the conjunction of the thumb and finger. Congenital Dislocations of the Fingers.—The last three fingers of the left hand in a foetus examined by Chaussier, were found to be dislocated at the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. The thighs, knees, and feet were also dislocated. The last two phalanges of the fingers are, M. Berard states, incurved backwards, occasionally, in newly born children of the female sex ; and Malgaigne has himself seen a woman in whom, fi'om birth, all the plialangettes were carried backwards to an angle of 135°, leaving the heads of the phalanges projecting forward Tinder the skin. Dislocations of the Pelvis.—(1.) The Symjohjsis-puhis and the Sacro-iliac Articulations may, severally, undergo separation and dis- placement. In one case, I found all three articulations completely I'ig- 372.* separated, in a young man whose pelvis had been subjected to severe compression. The same triple injury had occurred in the specimen here represented. (Fig. 372.) The Signs of any pelvic disar- ticulation are sufiiciently obvious : some deformity and mobility at the seat of injury. The cause of disarticulation is always some extreme violence, and generally a compressing force. Treatment,—The same as in fracture of the pelvis. (2.) The Coccyx is more frequently bent or displaced than fractured. Such dislocation may be forwards, as the result of a fall; or laclcivarcls, in consequence of pressure by the head of the child during parturition. Treatment,—The same as for fracture of the coccyx. Dislocations of the Hip-jo int.—This joint is subject to four prin- cipal dislocations, and to five anomalous dislocations; resulting from the freedom of the motion of the hip—as a ball-and-socket joint—in all directions. The number of possible dislocations may therefore be added to by increasing experience; any point in the circumference of a circle representing a direction in which dislocation of the hip. might possibly occur, from the joint as a centre. Taking the four principal dislocations of the hip in their order of liability, they are as follow :— (1) Dislocation upwards and backwards on the dorsum ilii; (2) upwards and backwards into the great ischiatic notch; (3) downwards ♦ St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., C. 42. Pelvis, shewing separation of sym- ■ physis-pubis and sacro-iliac articulations, from violence, in a boy aged fourteen. ' The condyles of the femur were also detached at the line of epiphytic union.