INriiA:\rMATTON. 89 pletc or blind fistula, or sinus, has only one opening, which may bo external or internal, whence such fistula is named accordingly. The external orifice presents certain varieties of appearance, which aro practically important, as indicating the state of the fistula, or the presence of some source of irritation, local or constitutional. Thus, an inverted orifice, with a border of thickened and indurated integu- ment, is connected with a callous and chronic condition of fistula; Avhile an everted external orifice, presenting an out-crop of soft, spongy granulations, or " proud-flesh," may be connected with caries or necrosis, as the foreign body which maintains this indisposition of the fistula, or fistulge, to close. (Fig. 23.) Other appearances maybe dependent on some constitutional influence, as scrofula or syphilis. The discharge from a fistula, so long as the passage is indisposed to heal, is itself never of a healthy character; but it is less characteristic, contrasting only with healthy pus in being a thin, ^3 grumous, yellowish or reddish fluid, con- sisting of serum with broken-down pus- cells and blood corpuscles. Besides the ordinary conditions of fistulce, they are liable to assume the various dis- eased states of an ulcer ; becoming irritable, inflamed, sloughy, or phagsedenic. When manifesting a tendency to close, as a healing fistula, the pyogenic membrane, which had previously a mammillated or imperfectly granular surface, now forms healthy granulations, and the passage be- gins to contract and get smaller; while the external orifice is no longer inverted or pouting, but is beset with small, florid granulations, followed by cicatrization. The discharge also assumes the creamy con- sistence and appearance of healthy pus. In this general description of Fistulaa, it is unnecessary to notice the various lengths of these passages, their irregular width, and their tortuous, and perhaps branched, directions; for although these particulars are, indeed, of practical importance, they pertain rather to the special pathology of organs and regions. Hectic Fever.—The constitutional disturbance or hectic fever conse- quent on suppuration and abscess, is characteristic. Commencing at a variable period in the course of inflammation, the first symptoms are those of prostration with excitement. A sensation of chilliness or a shivering fit—rigors—announce the one, while the other—nervous ex- citement—is exhibited by restlessness and sleeplessness, the pulse also retaining its frequency, or rising in rapidity, although losing its force and hardness. The heat and flush of skin subside, a cold clammy sweat supervenes, the urine becomes pale, abundant, and deposits a pmkish sediment of lithates. The tongue loses its brown fur, is white and pasty with a bright scarlet tip ; the appetite is very capricious, sometimes absent, with loathing of food and even vomiting; while profuse watery diarrhoea succeeds to the previous constipation. Pro-