DISLOCATIONS OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 787 head on to the external cuneiform or cuboid bones ; tbe body of the astragalus still retaining its connection with the os calcis and malleolar arch. (Fig. 401 and Fig. 402.) Fig. 402.t Fig. 401.* Fig. 403.± (4.) Dislocation backwards is a dislodg- ment of the astragalus oil to the os calcis behind the tibia, in the interval between it and the tendo-AchiUis. (Fig. 403.) Signs.—The projection of the astragalus which can be felt and seen, in each of these directions of dislocation, is alone sufficient to indicate the nature of the injury. The malleoli are nearer the sole of the foot, the tibia having fallen down upon the os calcis ; and there may be some flexion or extension of the foot. The Causes of astragaloid dislocation resemble those of ankle-joint dislocation. * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 212. A dislocation of the astragalus forwards on the dorsum of the scaphoid bone. The deltoid and dorsal ligaments are ruptured. Many of the tendons round the ankle-joint were torn subcutanerously; and the integu- ment having sloughed in a few days, the head of the astragalus protruded, thus rendering the dislocation compound. Pigors followed, with pyamic infection. Am- putation tlirough the knee-joint and recovery. This rare dislocation was produced by a twist of the foot between two bricks, in descending some steps. t Ibid. 1, 213. Dislocation of the astragalus outwards, or "Dislocation of the os calcis and scaphoid bones inwards from the astragalus." The ligaments of the ankle-joint were uninjured, except the anterior portion of the external lateral liga- ment. The interosseous ligament between the astragalus and ds calcis was partly ruptured. There is eversion of the foot, the sole being turned inwards. Fracture has taken place, a small portion of the astragalus being broken, and the corresponding process of the os calcis—sustentaculum tali. These injuries were produced by a fall from a height; and, on examination, the head of the astragalus was found projecting at the outer edge of the foot, the sole being turned inwards; the tendo-Achillis was very prominent, tense, and slightly curved inwards. Reduc- tion could be effected only by (subcutaneous) division of the tendon. For any further particulars, see " Med.-Chir. Trans.," vol. xlii. X Case by Dr. llulme, of Dunedin. Excision of astragalus. Kecovery, with free motion in ankle-joint.