SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 618 and to relievo the embarrassment of the respiration occasioned hy compression of the lung, in pneumothorax, or of the chest, in emphy- sema. Venesection, therefore, sometimes proves singularly beneficial,, affording instant relief. In a case under my care in the HospitaC emphysema extended from the chest downwards to the iliac fossa, on the left side; attended with the usual crepitation, stuffed appear^ ance, and great oppression of the respiration. Mr. Jeaffreson, the House Surgeon, seeing the urgency in this case, at once bled the patient, taking away more than a pint of blood. The effect was. marked, and almost magical. Panting and prostrate as the man lay before losing blood, he soon sat up and breathed freely; recovering without any further unfavourable symptoms. Scarification of th& emphysematous cellular texture may sometimes be resorted to, alone, or with venesection. But the air gradually disappears spontaneously in most cases. Paracentesis, or tapping the chest, has been performed for the relief of severe pneumothorax. Inflammation of the pleura or lung, supervening, must be met bj the treatment appropriate for j^leurisy and pneumonia. Compound fracture of the ribs, resulting from gunshot wound, is similar in all respects, otherwise than relates to the treatment of Gun- shot Wounds. Fracture of the Costal Cartilages may occur in any part of their extent from the ribs to the sternum, or at their articulations with either of these bones—a dislocation, more strictly speaking. Any such injury to the cartilages takes place in connection with fracture of the ribs ; sometimes, however, independently. The pathology being analogous to that of fractured ribs, the treatment requires no special notice. And although the costal cartilages are often fractured prior to any ossification, union ensues thi'ough the medium of bone, forming an intermediate callus, an ensheathing callus also being supplied by the perichondrium. Fracture op the Sternum.— Structural Conditions.—Analagous to fracture of the ribs in most particulars, fracture of the sternum is commonly transverse, very rarely longitudinal, and usually single; but this bone may be broken into three or more pieces. Displacement seldom occurs, and then the lower portion projects forwards, and perhaps just overrides the upper; although backwai'd displacement of the same fragment has been met with. Extravasation of blood into the anterior mediastinum, injury of the pericardium and heart, or of the pleura and lung, may severally accompany fracture. Fracture of the sternum is usually accompanied with fracture of the ribs, in their convexity; the same compressing force producing both injuries simultaneously. I have never yet seen the sternum broken alone.- The ensiform cartilage may be driven backwards, and remain per- manently depressed, even Avhen in a cartilaginous state, and subject to the resiliency of its own elasticity. Compound fracture occurs sometimes, as by gunshot wound. The Signs of this fracture ai'e obvious: crepitus, and some mobility, felt on applying the hand over the sternum during coughing or the hurried respiratory movements ; while some inequality of the bone, with any displacement, will also be perceptible. The respiration is principally abdominal. Hasmoptysis and emphysema, or severe palpi- tation, are present, when the injury involves the lung or heart. Or