SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS C0XARIU3. 819 Fig. 435.* and forms a swelling in connection with the hip, which up to this time has undergone no further alteration than a slight fulness in the groin, and enlargement of the inguinal glands. Abscess-swelling is rendered more conspicuous by the wasting of the thigh and buttock. When, at leno-th, the abscess opens externally, the situation of the sinus apertures den°otes, as already indicated, the probable seat of the disease ; whether in the head of the femur or acetabulum. Dislo- cation is very apt to supervene, commonly on the dorsum ilii; yet, although attended with increased shortening, the attitude of the limb, flexed and inverted, remains the same. But the head of the femur or its remnant, with the great trochanter, can be felt in its new situation, on the back of the ilium; and often very distinctly, the gluteal muscles having wasted so much that the bone seems to lie immediately under the skin. (Fig. 435.) The additional symptoms—wasting of the limb, and sinuses discharging an unhealthy pus and leading down to diseased bone—complete the local diagnostic differences of appearance from traumatic dislocation. The general health also has now become worn down by irritation and hectic ; and this constitutional condition, coupled with that of the diseased limb, form a picture which leaves little or no doubt as to the nature of the case, not to mention the previous history of its insidious origin. In order the more clearly to contrast the signs of hip-joint disease, in its first and second stages, I have here appended the following tabular view from Bauer (the second and third stages according to his description and that of Sayre ; the first stage corresponding to limping lameness) :— First Stage. Limb apparently longer. „ abducted. „ everted. „ flexed in both joints. Foot touches the ground with sole. Toes everted, as in fracture of neck. Pelvis lowered on diseased side. „ projected forward. „ angle of inclination acute. Natis low and flat. Linea inter nates inclined towards afi'ected side. Pain most intense. Diagnosis.—Scrofulous disease of the hip-joint is liable to be mis- taken for other diseases, if any one particular symptom be alone con- sidered. It may resemble traumatic dislocation on the dorsum ilii, congenital dislocation of the hip-joint, infantile paralysis with wa.sting and defective growth of the limb, sprain of the hip-joint, interstitial absorption of the neck of the femur, rheumatism, disease of the knee, * Koyal Free Plospital. (Author.) Second Stage. Limb shorter. „ adducted. ,, inverted. „ flexed in hip-joint only, possibly at knee-joint also. Foot touches with ball only. Toes inverted as in dislocation on dor- sum ilii. Pelvis raised. „ projected backwards. „ angle of inclination almost right. Natis high and round. Linea inter nates deviated from affected side. Pain greatly diminished.