513 ANEURISM OF POPLITEAL ARTERY. rliage occurred in 9, 3 of wHch were fatal, and 6 were saved only by ligature of the external iliac; the remaining 3 were successful. Ligature of the superficial f&moral will be practicable only in cases where the portion of this artery, between the sac below and origin of the deep femoral above, is of sufficient length for the application of a ligature. But this operation avoids both the sources of danger conse- quent on ligature of the common femoral. Ligature of the superficial femoral, in the part referred to, may be eligible for aneurism situated in the apex of Scarpa's triangle, and would certainly be appropriate for aneurism in Hunter's canal. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Femoral Artery.—These lesions are liable to happen by puncture with some sharp instrament, or by rupture, or penetration of the artery, with or by fracture of the femur. Cases of this description are not very uncommon. The following instance well illustrates the symptoms. The femoral artery of a young man was wounded with a penknife. On the following day—observes John Bell—aneurism began to form, but as yet the wounded artery was not so far removed from the fascia and surface of the thigh but that pure blood found its way out through the integuments, and he lost at a few strokes of the heart no less than three pounds of blood; on the third day, however, the coagula were so firm, the wounded artery was so deeply buried under the coagulating blood, and the external wound so steadily compressed, that it healed. Then, the aneurism assumed its proper form of a great pulsating tumour, but circum- scribed, and limited to the upper and fore part of the thigh; very little swelling of the limb had supervened after the lapse of three weeks. In another case, a man was sitting in a careless way cutting a rag or flaw from the root of his nail, and the scissors, which were very sharp-pointed, dropping betwixt his thighs, he suddenly clapped his knees together to catch them, and struck the points into his thigh, wounding the femoral. The blood instantly spurted out, was soon stopped, and the external wound healed in a few days; then aneurism be^fan to form. The Treatment presents nothing peculiar;—double ligature of the artery at the seat of the wound ; or, if secondary haemorrhage occurs, ligature of the trunlc above must be had recourse to. Aneurismal Yarix, and Varicose Aneurism, in the Thigh.—In the event of either such possible mode of communication between the femoral artery and vein, the treatment would be analogous to that for similar conditions of the common femoral artery and vein in the groin. Popliteal Artert. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—Popliteal Aneurism is declared by a pul- sating tumour, which forms in the popliteal space, or ham. (Fig. 141.) At first small, circumscribed and of roundish shape, soft and coinpressible, it subsides also by ])ressure on the femoral trunk. This latter symptom, as Sir A. Cooper observed, may be more readily perceived by looking at the tumour from the level of the limb. The pulsation, like that of other external aneurisms, can be seen and lelt, as well as heard, transmitting a brrdt. But the character of the pulsation is modified by the aspect of the artery, whence the aneurism 2 L