516 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Compression of the Femoral Artery.—Instrumental or digital com- pression may be readily effected ; care being taken that the pressure be directed rather outwards against the femur, as the vessel winds to the inner side of the bone in its course down the thigh to become popliteal. But this kind of treatment may be unbearable. Or, the tumour still enlarging, compression will no longer prove sufficient to induce consolidation of the aneurism, and still less so, if the sac has burst, and diffused aneurism being established, gangrene is imminent. Ligature of the Superficial Femoral.—This operative proceeding be- comes necessary under the circumstances adverse to compression, or its continuance. Ligature of the superficial femoral has been attended •with more successful results than that of any other main artery. The vessel is usually secured at the apex of Scarpa's triangle, just as it passes under the sartorius muscle. In 110 cases collected by Dr. Crisp, 12 only had a fatal issue ; by secondary haemorrhage, 4; by gangrene, 3; and the remainder dying of phlebitis, tetanus, etc. Of 33 cases operated on in London, Hut- chinson shows that 10 were fatal; 5 dying from gangrene. This •would seem to be the chief cause of death after ligature of the femoral for all purposes, including popliteal aneurism. Thus, of 204 such operations in Norris's tables, 50 died. Of these, the cause of death is omitted in 4 ; but of the remaining 46, 23 or one-half died from gangrene, and 8 only from haemorrhage; 5 of phlebitis; 1 from sloughing of the sac, and the residue from accidental causes common to all operations, as tetanus, pyaemia, etc. Return of pulsation in the sac sometimes occurs, but it rarely is of much consequence. Com- pression of the artery above will, mostly, control any such unfavoui'- able tendency. Secondary haemorrhage should be met by ligature of the artery above—i.e., the common femoral, or the external iliac; pressure with a graduated compress fixed over the bleeding aperture wiU be insufficient, and double ligature of the vessel in situ impracticable ; and, in extreme cases, amputation is the only resource. Amputation of the Limb.—This operation must be resorted to in the event of gangrene, consequent on the aneurism, or its having become diffused, or after ligature of the superficial femoral. Persistent secondary hoemorrhage will also render amputation unavoidable. Limited gangrene may allow the preservation of the limb. Amputation has proved tolerably successful in its results, more so than ligature of the femoral, taking either operation in all cases indiscriminately. Of 60 cases of ligature collected by Mr. Hutchinson from the practice of the metropolitan hospitals, 16 died, or say one- third ; whereas, amputation of the thigh—in all the cases collected by Mr. Bryant from Guy's Hospital, and by Mr. Holmes from St. George's Hospital—shows a mortality considerably below one-third. Double Popliteal Aneurism.—Compression of the femoral seems specially appropriate in double popliteal aneurism, as thus to avoid that disturbance of the balance of the circulation which is certain to ensue when one vessel is ligatured, and which may act injuriously upon the opposite aneurism. In a case where an interval of some months elapsed between the two aneurisms, I succeeded in curing the first by instrumental compression, and the second, in the opposite