810 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. activity of tho disease; thus representing the acute and chrojiic varieties of ulceration. In one case, tlie patient having died after veaesectiou, Mr. Lawrence believed that complete destruction of the articular car- tilages of the femur and tibia took place in four days. Chronic ulcera- tion may progress very slowly, especially when of rheumatic origin. Signs and Diagnosis.—(1.) Secondanj ulceration of the articular cartilages is announced by the starting fains adverted to in connection with the progress of synovitis and scrofulous caries ; and the articular disease is preceded by the symptoms of one or other of these diseases. (2.) Primary^ ulceration, of an inflammatory character, is said to present certain special and distinctive signs, as compared with syno- vitis or caries. According to the original observations of Sir B. Brodie, 2min, fixed and intense, is the earliest symptom, and coincident with the commencement of the disease. This pain is aggravated by movement of the joint, or friction, rather than by percussion of the bones, and accompanied with startings of the limb, as muscular spasms supervene. In the course of weeks or months, slight sivelling arises, corresponding in shape to the margin of the affected cartilages, and produced by serous effusion into the cellular textui'e externally. Abscess, within the joint, follows. But my own experience has led me to doubt ■whether inflammatory ulceration of articular cartilages ever occurs as a primary affection. Repair—after ulceration of articular cartilage—takes place in different ways. Extensive destruction of the opposed cartilages, with exposure of the cancellous bone, may be followed by the formation of granulation-tissue, uniting the osseous surfaces, and resulting in anchylosis. Ulceration affecting the cartilage to a considerable depth is sometimes repaired—as Redfern describes—by the formation of a fibro-nucleated membrane from the substance of the cartilage, without the occurrence of any new exudation. Occasionally, a patch of ivory- deposit or porcellanous-encrustation occupies the place of a portion of cartilage; or a scar alone marks the seat of a former ulcer. Treatment.—The local treatment is the same as for other inflam- matory diseases of the joints. Absolute rest, and position of the joint, must be observed, and for a considerable period. Counter-irritation, by blisters, issues, or caustic potash, may be applied more advantage- ously than in scrofalous caries. Abscess must be opened forthwith, and anchylosis induced, as the only favourable termination in this advanced state of the disease. Excision or amputation are ulterior resources, which will be considered with reference to Diseases of the Joints specially. (Chapter I. Vol. II.) The constitutional treatment resembles that for rheumatism affecting the joints. Mercury, in the form of calomel, the bichloride, or blue pill, combined with opium, should be administered, and pushed to slight salivation. Mercurial inunction must be resorted to, if the internal administration disagree. This may be followed by iodide of potassium and sarsaparilla. But a gradual subsidence of the joint-symptoms will declare whether the articulation itself is preserved, or anchylosis be inevitable. Anchylosis, or Stiff Joint.—Structural Conditions.—Two states of anchylosis are recognized : fibroiis or incomplete, and the osseous or complete. Both signify the junction or union of the articidar sui'faccs of the hones, thus presupposing the partial or complete removal of the articular cartilages j unless occasionally, in fibrous anchylosis, where