692 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., A. 90. produced by both the periosteum and the medullary membrane, or endosteum. In ordinary cases of necrosis of the shaft of a long bone, the sequestrum is surrounded by a sheath of new bone, which has been formed by the periosteum and, it may be, other structures external to it; the medullary membrane perishing with the bone which encloses it. In cases of in tra-osseous necrosis, on the other hand, new bone is produced by the endosteum as well as the periosteum; and the sequestrum is thus often so completely "locked" as to render it& removal almost an impossibility; the difficulty being increased by the frequently long-delayed separation, under these conditions, of the dead from the living bone. Diagnosis.—Necrosis unattended with suppuration may simulate malignant disease, in the formation of a large tumour or swelling, which is hard and incompressible; spontaneous fracture also some- times takes place, and yet this event may not, for at least many weeks, be followed by suppuration. Mr. Baker relates a case of this kind, in which the femur was the seat of chronic osteal inflammation, and the swelling extended below nearly to the knee-joint and above to the trochanters. Spontaneous fracture took place, followed by deformed union. But the patient gradually lost flesh and was worn out by pain and sleeplessness. Under these circumstances, the limb was amputated at the hip-joint, and a rapid recovery ensued. Section of the femur then revealed the above condition of necrosis, not a drop of pus being found. Exfoliation, or superficial necrosis, presents the same appearances as to the state of the dead portion of bone. But it results generally from the destruction of the periosteum ; consequently, no periosteal sheath of new bone is produced. The plate of dead bone is detached —as in deep necrosis—by linear ulceration forming a groove circum- ferentially ; but the detached portion not being ensheathed by new bone, it is thrown off from the surface or exfoliated, and exposed by open abscesses or sloughing; or it can be easily removed surgically by forceps. The separation of an exfoHated portion of bone, like the detachment of a seques- trum, is always a slow process; in one case, after compound fracture of the tibia, in a healthy boy, I removed a thin scale of bone, about an inch square, on the day four months from' the time of the accident. The jaerios- teum of the cranial bones—the peri- cranium.—even when uninjured, does not seem to have the power of forming a sheath of new bone; and thence the same result ensues—exfoliation. (Fig. 312.) The dura mater is nearly equally unproductive—within the skull. The Signs of Necrosis are the characters of necrosed bone, as already described. But—as with Caries—these characters are not declared until, abscess having formed and discharged, the bone becomes exposed or accessible. The introduction of a stout probe will readily Fig. 312.*