TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 843 Fig. 465.* Fig. 463. Fig. 464. The operations of tenotomy thus stated in detail, can be carried out in a few seconds each, and are bloodless. After the operation for varus, the usual rule should be observed with reo-ard to the after-treatment of club-foot; that the foot be left m its fornier position until the punctures have healed—about four days— during which time a moulded splint of paste- board or pliant metal may be applied, just to secure this position and rest the foot. Then mechanical extension should be continued gradually for a period of two weeks to a month, or even to three months, having regard to the degree of de- formity and the age of the patient. The shoe most generally used, a modification of Scarpa's, is here shown. (Fig. 463.) Aveling's talivert is a useful contrivance, combining the three de- siderata—abduction, flexion, and eversion. Dr. Langaard's well-known instrument for talipes varus is also deserving of notice. (Fig. 464.) Relapse sometimes takes place, or the con- version of the deformity into the opposite state occurs, talipes valgus succeeding. In one such case, I found it neces- sary to resort to the operation for that deformity. (3.) Talipes Valgus—or in-ankle—presents the opposite arrangement of parts to that of talipes varus, and the peronei muscles are chiefly contracted, with, perhaps, the extensor longus digitorum. The foot is turned out- wards, or everted, and abducted, possibly also extended upwards, the patient standing or walking on the inner ankle. (Pig. 465.) Thence also the knee inclines inwards, com- bining knock-knee with this form of talipes. Flat or Splay-foot presents the same characters as the above deformity; but, owing to relaxation of the ligaments in the sole of the foot, the arch sinks, and the foot is flattened. (Fig- 466.) The cautes of talipes valgus have reference to the state of the muscles (Fig. 467) concerned in its production. Thus, there may be a spasmodic contraction of the peronei, as from dental irritation in * Talipes valgus—congenital.—a, Showing depression of the inner, and eleva- tion of the outer margin of the foot; b, showing obliquity of the foot. (From W. Adams.)