271 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. local disease, and never followed by secondary affections. Hence, indurated cliancre is the onli/ form of 'primary syphilis; and, indeed, that the supervention of induration is the first manifestation of systemic infection—the first secondary symptom. According to other authors, the term syphilis signifies an entirely constitutional disease, not to be distinguished as primary and secondary; the term chancre being restricted to the initial local lesion of syphilis, whereby the virus is introduced or inoculated. If therefore, indurated chancre be the only species of ulcer which is followed by syphilis, it thus differs essentially from soft chancre; the one being the only form of local, or primary, syphilis; the other, distinctively named chancroid, being only a local contagious ulcer of venereal origin. Hence the Dualist theory, in regard to the production of these two diseases, rirst proposed by Bassereau (1858), a former pupil of Ricord's, this theoiy has been advocated by several eminent supporters; Rollet, Cullerier, Bumstead, H. Lee, and others, and is still gaining adherents. But Dualists strenuously maintain the unity of the sypldlitic virus. On the other hand, some observers, scarcely less distinguished, maintain that while the indurated chancre possesses the greater power of producing constitutional syphilis, and is thus the most frequent cause, yet that soft chancre—chancroid—may also, occa- sionally, have this relation. Hence, that chancroid may be regarded as a form of local, or primary, syphilis. This is known as the TJnicist theory; or the reference of these apparently different diseases to one common causative origin. Velpeau, Devergie, and Casenave, more prominently represent the school of Unicists. My own experience inclines to the latter view of the relative infecting character of hard and soft chancres, and thence to Unicism. Inoculation throws some light on this question. The general results of inoculation in regard to syphilis, may perhaps be stated as follows :— (1.) That a chancre always produces a specific virus. (2.) That all chancres—hard and soft—are capable of being propa- gated by inoculation. (3.) That inoculation with the serum or lymph from an indurated sore will only produce a chancre, and that an indurated one, when the system is unaffected. During, therefore, only the earliest stage of such chancre—i.e.. prior to induration, which may be regarded as the first secondary symptom. (4.) That inoculation fi"om an indurated sore—the system being unaft'ected—is invariably followed by secondary affections. (5.) That inoculation from a soft chancre is less certainly pro- ductive of secondary affections. (6.) Secondary syphilis may be propagated by inoculation. (7.) But, that inoculation from secondary syphilis is inoperative on the individual himself, or upon another individual having secondary syphilis. (8.) That the secretion of other specific diseases existing in syphilitic subjects (including the specific syphilitic pustule, and the sores which result from it), has no power of imparting constitutional syphilis. (H. Lee.) (9.) That the natural secretions of glands in syphilitic subjects, when those glands are not themselves specifically diseased, have no power of imparting constitutional syphilis. (H. Lee.)