GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 128 exudation of amorphous matter, prior to the appearance of organized elements ; and the discovery that connective tissue, and its equivalent tissues, as bone, are full of germs or cell-elements. Thus the body is said to consist of a more or less continuous mass of connective-tissue- like constituents, in which, at certain parts, other things, such as muscles and nerves, are imbedded. It is in this more or less " con- nected framework " that germinal new formation goes on, and in accordance with the same law which regulates embryonic development. The histological origin of new formations would appear to occur in either of two ways: generally, by cell-division; by endogenous de- velopment, in some instances. The relation of Morbid Growths to Healthy Tissues has engaged much attention. So long since as 1857—twenty years from the time I am now writing—I endeavoured to establish a general Law of " Structural Retrogression," * which explains the relation of Morbid to Healthy Histology, and the generation of Morbid Growths—extend- ing to Organized Morbid Products, in general—from Healthy Tissues. Subsequently, I ventured to formulate this Law in the following terms : "that Organized Morbid Pi'oducts are merely ^persistent rudimentary conditions of the structural elements of their analogous iZeaZ</;i/ Tissues, by arrested development of those elements ;" f " that such Products, including ' New Growths,' representing only so many developmental conditions of analogous Healthy Tissues, are seTcrally formed by so many arrests of their development; " and that " Degenerative retro- gressions of the original tissues are formed by so many relapses to as many more simple, although not developmental, conditions of their structural elements." X (2.) External causes, e.g., mechanical injury, chemical agents, and the influence of cold, have a very uncertain relation to the production of Morbid Growths. Such causes commonly give rise to inflamma- tion, acute or chronic; they rarely result in the formation of any Tumour, properly so called. Pathologists, however, are divided on this question. General Indications of Treatment.—From the general pathology of Morbid Growths, and their relations to the developmental anatomy of Healthy Tissues, certain general indications of treatment are deducible. 1. To reduce the structural condition to a lower degree of retro- gression, by degeneration or by disintegration, in order to facilitate absorption of the Tumour. Medicinal agents, and local appliances, e.g., stimulating applications, compression, may fulfil this indication. 2. To superinduce some other morbid process, in situ, for the direct suppression of the Growth, and its obliteration or destruction as a Tumour. Inflammation, or Sloughing, by stimulant injections, setons, caustics, congelation, may fulfil this indication. 3. To remove the Tumour, as such, mechanically, by surgical opera- tion ; puncture, enucleation, ligature, excision, amputation. Special Tumours.—Morbid Growths are severally distinguished by differences or peculiarities, in respect to their structural condition, and physical characters of shape, size, weight, consistence, colour, situation, and number produced ; and by their vital history of origin, including * "What has Pathological Anatomy done for Medicine and Surgery?" Ten serial Essays. Lancet, 1857. i t " Principles of Surgery " (1864), p. 25. % Ibid. p. 93. j