114 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. precaution is, that the oil be taken ten or fifteen minutes after a meal. The expression " nutritious diet," can scarcely be defined. It is assuredly the opposite to "antiphlogistic diet." Nutrition in the abstract, implies an adequate supply of all the proximate elements which form the textures and organs of the body; whereas the demand arising from inflammation must vary with the particular part affected. Nutritious food, of some kind, will be most needed in proportion to the supervention of suppuration, possibly profuse, and sloughing, possibly extensive. And experience, rather than any chemical knowledge, suggests an increased proportion of animal food, with a liberal allow- ance of ale or porter, as malt beverages, besides alcoholic stimulants. (&.) Removal of the Local Consequences of Inflammation.—They are —productively,—effusion and its organization, suppuration, and the formation of abscess ; destructively,—ulceration, sloughing, and morti- fication. As connected with inflammation, it would be unpathological to regard these local consequences otherwise than as continuations of this process; terminally, it is true, yet continuations of one and the same process, essentially. The local remedial measures, therefore, which counteract the constituent elements of inflammation, are preventive of these after conditions. Bat the removal of inflammatory products yet remains to be con- sidered. This may be effected either by absorption, or by evacuation; the latter being aided generally by some operative interference. Effusion, consisting of serum, fibi'iu, and exudation corpuscles, may be dispersed by a stimulating embrocation of ammonia and olive oil, or of camphor and soap liniment; by mercurial ointments, such as the unguentum hydrargyri nitratis ; by the compound tincture of iodine, or by " iodine paint; " and by spii'it lotions. The influence of some of these agents is aided by the friction employed in their application. Pressure, uniformly applied by even bandaging, will also promote absoi'ption; and this may be aided by some stimulating agent used conjointly, as Scott's ointment to an enlarged knee-joint. Absorption, is however, available only in chronic inflammation. Incision will be appropriate when the inflammation is acute, and accompanied probably with considerable tension, as in phlegmonous erysipelas. In all such cases stimulating applications are inadmissible. Suppuration becoming inevitable in any case, the secretion of pus should be encouraged, by quickening the inflammatory process. Abstaining, therefore, from the further use of any remedial measures for counteracting inflammation, the formation of pus is best insured by warmth and moisture topically applied, as by a light poultice, or moist spongio-piline. The absorption of pus is possible. Serum, the fluid portion of pus, is thus readily removed. Pus-cells must undergo a preparatory change. They disintegrate and re-enter the circulation ; or remaining, in part at least, the broken-down pus-cells aggregate and form a cheese-like matter, which may at length become cretaceous. But the probability of absorption taking place, is little available for any practical purpose. Ahscess, or a collection of matter, generally tends to point, and the suro'eon should then follow the footsteps of nature. An incision should