FRACTURES OF THE PELVIS. CAS tlie junction of the descending ramus of the pubis with the ramus of the ischium ; thus nearly isolating the pubic bone. The preparation is in the Museum of the Hospital. Occasionally, some other; and perhajDS Fig. 244.* any portion, of these bones may be broken; as, for example, a rim-like piece of the crest of the ilium, or the twher- osity of the ischium. Both innominate bones are not unfrequently fractured, and somewhat symmetrically; as, cor- responding portions of the rami of the pubis and ischium. Separation of the symijhysis pubis, or of either sacro-iliac articulation, rarely takes place. I have, however, met with this injury to each of these three articula- tions in the same person; but only once. Little or no displacement is liable to occur, otherwise than by muscular action ; the bones being well held to- gether, and cushioned by soft parts. But the pelvic viscera are fre- quently injured; rupture of the bladder and urethra, giving rise to extravasation of urine; laceration of the rectum sometimes occurring; or of the larger blood-vessels, with intra-pelvio heemorrhage. These visceral or internal injuries are of far more serious import than the fracture in itself. Fractures of the pelvis thus have an analogous resemblance to those of the ribs and sternum, and of the cranium or vertebral column, in regard to their visceral relations. The Signs of fracture of the innominate bones are not peculiar. No irregularity of the bone at the seat of injury may be discovered ; but mobility and crepitus, on moving each half of the pelvis back- wards and forwards, will be readily perceptible; while the ischium is best examined by the finger in the rectum or vagina, with external manipulation of the tuberosity, or by then flexing or extending the thigh; pain also and inability to support the trunk are experienced by the patient on attempting to move or stand up. Inability to empty the bladder, or bloody urine, denotes some injury to this organ; and occurring with the accident, confirms the diagnosis. Caution, there- fore, should always be observed in handling the pelvis, lest any visceral injury be aggravated. Fracture of, or involving, the acetabulum is indicated by the crepitus elicitated on rotating the femur, with the other hand placed over the trochanter. Detachment of a portion of the margin, with dislocation, is characterized by the recurrence of dislocation after its reduction, the head of the femur easily slijaping out of the acetabular cavity. Separation of the symphysis, or of the sacro-iliac articulations, allows of free mobility, and an interval may even be felt in the situation of such separation. In the case to which I have alluded, I could plainly pass my finger between the symphysis, and so far as to recognize the * St. Bartholomew's Hospital, C. 40. A fracture has split the acetabulum into four portions, which are widely separated. From this centre, fractures also extend through the body and ramus of the pul)is ; through the iscliiiuu, between its spine and tuberosity; and through the ilium, vertically to its crest, and obliquely to ita anterior spine.