DISLOCATIONS OF THE RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATIONS. 755 Fig. 362.* Fig. 363.t being caused by considerable violence. The " external latero-angular " dislocation, wbich I bave described, was compound, and produced by a wrencb of tbe forearm between tbe buffers of two railway carriages. Treatment.—These compound injuries present nothing peculiar in relation to their treatment. The preservation of the limb, or operative interference, by excision or amputation, must be guided by similar considerations to those which relate to shoulder-joint dislocations, or to such injuries in general. Congenital dislocations of the elbow have been met with, in the form of both bones backwards, or as pertaining to the head of the radius. These imperfections are more curious pathologically, than in- teresting surgically. Dislocations of the Radio-ulnae Artictjlations.—The head of the radius in its relation to the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna, con- stituting the swperior radio-ulnar articulation, may undergo dislocation in the directions already described, as dislocations of the head of the radius,—backwards, forwards (Fig. 362), or outwards. The lower end or head df the ulna in its articu- lation with the lower end of the radius, is liable to dislocation, backwards or forwards. (1.) Dislocation hachwards is characterized by an unnatural prominence of bone—the head of the ulna—at the posterior and inner part of the wrist, with loss of the motions of pronation and supination. In connection with fracture of the lower end of the radius, this dislocation is not very uncom- mon ; alone, it seldom occurs, eleven or twelve cases only having been collected by Mal- gaigne; to which I may add one case from my own experience, the dislocation backwards being of four years' duration, and irreducible. (Fig. 363.) The cause would seem to be, usually, violent pronation. Thus, Desault records the case of a laundress who, in wringing a wet sheet, produced dislocation of the head of the ulna backwards. But a fall on the hand, doubling the wrist forwards, was the occasion of this displacement in the case which came under my observation. The act of lifting a child by the hand gave rise to it, in a case which Duges mentions, and the accident happened in both wrists, at different times. Treatment.—Reduction can be readily effected by forcible supination of the forearm, with pressure on the head of the ulna forwards. Gene- rally the bone remains in place without further assistance; or it may be necessary to apply a compress and splint. (2.) Dislocation forwards is denoted by a projection of the head of the ulna at the anterior and inner part of the wrist; the natural pro- minence of this portion of the bone at the back of the wrist having * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., C. 37. f Royal Free Hospital.