ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 213 acute pain around the ulcer; a grayish, glutinous or slimy slough, which exhales a peculiar foetid odour, occupies the surface of the sore, and the edges, sharp, irregular as if worm-eaten, and undermined, fall away rapidly; thus enlarging and deepening the area of the ulcer. Sloughing may predominate in such ulceration, and hence sloughing and phagedsenic ulcers are not uncommonly associated. Sooner or later, constitutional disorder ensues; irritation rather than inflammatory fever, with great weakness and exhaustion. Allied as this ulcer is, in its local and constitutional characters, to Hospital gangrene, it would seem that phagedtena arises from an external cause,—contagious matter applied to a sore; the constitu- tional disorder being secondary and symptomatic, although in its turn affecting the ulcer. On the other hand, habitual deprivation of food, the abuse of stimulants, or living on spirits, and, perhaps, overcrowd- ing, with destitution, seem also to give rise to phagedsena. Treatment.—To arrest the rapidly spreading ulceration, a free appli- cation of strong nitric acid, by means of a glass brush, is most effectual. Followed by poultices, the slough, thus formed, is detached, exposing probably a healthy surface, which has acquired a healing character. Re-application of the acid may be necessary, or the continued applica- tion of yeast, charcoal, or chlorinated poultices may be sufficiently stimulant and cleansing; and, at the same time, disinfectant. Opium, administered in small and repeated doses, so as to keep the system under its influence, is most potent in allaying the irritative fever; while the strength of the circulation and Healthy nutrition are restored by quinine, the mineral acids, and a generally nourishing diet. (7.) Hjimoerhagic Ulcer.—Any variety of ulcer may assume this character, but some more particularly—e.g., the irritable, phagedsenic, varicose, cancerous, and, perhaps, lupoid ulcers—by the penetration of a blood-vessel; and the scorbutic ulcer, by passive hsemorrhage owing to the blood-condition. Not unfrequently, an ulcer oozes blood about the catamenial period,, and especially in women suffering from amenor- rhoea ; the haemorrhage then being vicarious menstruation. An ulcer thus acquires a bloody, clotted appearance. Treatment.—Arising from such various causes, an hjemorrhagic nicer is a contingency rather than any special variety of ulcer, and should be treated accordingly in connection with whatever ulcer it may be associated, by reference to the particular condition, local or constitutional, which causes the haemorrhagic character. (8.) Scorbutic Ulcer.—Although scurvy in itself, observes Mr. Busk, cannot be said to be attended with any peculiar form of ulcera- tion, ulcers or sores of any kind already existing from other causes assume, in consequence of the scorbutic taint, a more or less peculiar character, and when thus modified have usually been termed " scorbutic ulcers." It is the effusion of a semi-plastic fibrous material—the same as that which causes the spongy swelling of the gums, etc.—on the free surface of sores or ulcers, which gives them the peculiar aspect termed scorbutic. Ulcers of this kind are distinguished by their livid colour, and irregular tumid border, around which no trace of cicatriza- tion is evident; whilst the surface of the sore is covered with a spongy, dark-coloured, strongly adherent, foetid crust, whose removal is attended with free bleeding, and is followed by a rapid reproduction of the same material. This crust, in bad cases, as remarked by Lind, attains to a