FRACTUEE. 583 lympli-forming callus may be thrown out around the seat of fracture, ensheathing the fragments as with a bony clasp (Fig. 191), and formed also as a peg witliinthe medullary canal. The lymph deposited in either of these situations speedily ossifies. The walls of the frac- tured ends of bone remain still longer disunited. Either callus thus placed is foi'med some time before the intermediate lymph begins to ossify. As to the long-mooted question respecting the source of callus, in the repair of fracture; the adjoining hone is the principal source of the new bone, callus being an outgrowth, in fact, from it; e.g., between the adjoining ends of a broken tibia. (Fig. 192.) The histological process by which caUus is produced, and becomes ossified, may be thus gathered from Billroth's observations. The ossific lymph at first consists of small round cells, which, as white blood-cells, have emigrated from the blood-vessels, along the course of the Haversian canals, within the fractured ends of bone, thus infiltrating them and overflowiug between them, to form an intermediate callus; and, as the con- nective tissue in the osseous canals is continuous both with the periosteum and medulla, the wandering cell-infiltration vsdthin the bone is also continuous there- with, in the production of an external and an internal callus. Even beyond the periosteum, cell-infiltration may extend into the adjoining soft textures —muscles and tendons. The cell-formation may now undergo direct ossification, without previous development into connective tissue, or be transformed into cartilage, and thence ossifying, become bone. In adults, direct ossification usually takes place; in children, this change proceeds indirectly, through the medium of cartilage. Coincident with the cell-production in the fractured bone, the Haversian canals themselves exhibit certain changes: the walls of these osseous canals are gradually absorbed, but unevenly, as if gnawed out, and the canals thus become enlarged; the cells fill them, occupying the interstices of the connective tissue within the canals, and the enclosed blood-vessels increase by forming loops. If the canals were so entirely filled, or choked up, with cells, as to compress the blood-vessels, the bone might die; reparation thus proving abortive, and necrosis of the fractured end resulting. In what way the bone becomes atrophied, in the walls of the Haversian canals—concurrently with the production of callus—is unknown. Billroth suggests that the lime-salts may be dissolved by the production of lactic acid, whereby the carbonates and phosphates are changed into soluble lactate of lime; or, that the organic fibrous basis of the bone * Incomplete transverse section of the tibia of a dog; immediately adjoining a fracture, eight days old, artificially injected.—a, internal callus; b, external callus; c, cortical layer of the bone. 20 diam. (Billroth.)