404 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. coincidence happened in tlie case of a youth who was shot through the abdomen; " that three balls went through him was evident, for they afterwards made three holes in the wainscot behind, but two very near each other." (Hunter.) (d.) More than one, perhaps several openings of exit are formed in some cases. Thus, a bullet having struck a ridge of bone and split into pieces, two or more portions may pass through ; producing as many exit-apertures. In one instance, a ball having split into two pieces by striking against the sharp crest of the right tibia, both portions passed through the calf of that limb, forming two openings ^ of exit, and then each entering the other calf, produced five openings altogether. A portion or portions of a sj/lit ball may lodge. Instances of this kind are recorded, where the ball had struck the edge of the patella, or the spine of the scapula. In like manner, •when several halls, say three, have entered, one or more may lodge. There being an aperture of exit is, therefore, no sure indication that one or more balls, or a portion of one, has not lodged; unless, in the latter case, the entire ball can be found. And, moreover, the number of exit-apertures are not necessarily the same as that of the balls which entered, or of the' portions into which any one ball may have split, (e.) Several openings, both of entrance and of exit, may be produced, and by a single ball. In one case, a ball passed through the hand, then the skin of the groin, and next the left buttock ; thus causing six open- ings. In another case, six openings also were caused by a single ball having passed through both thighs and the scrotum. (Gruthrie.) Appearances of the Entrance and Exit Apertures respectively.—They are tolerably distinctive, (Fig. 98.) The aperture of entrance is a small, nearly circular opening, or, as produced by a conical ball, it FiQ. 98. may be linear or crucial, or variously shaped; its margin is inverted., slightly torn, and surrounded with an areola of purple ecchymosis. The aperture of exit is larger and more irregular, its margin everted and more lacerated, showing the subcutaneous fat, and with less sur- rounding ecchymosis. Not unfrequently, there is no actual aperture,