303 fYJEMlA. bitis leads to tlie formation of inequalities upon tlie inner wall, wliicli favour the production of a coagulum, and thence the series of changes already described; possibly also, in consequence of the fibrinous dis- inteoration extending laterally to the wall of the vessel, phlebitis may°be induced,—the wall becoming cloudy and thickened from the interstitial deposit of exudation-matter, followed perhaps by suppu- ration, but within the substance of the wall. Supj^iorative Lymphatitis.—Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels, advancing to intra-vascular suppuration, is another accredited mode of pytemic infection; by the transmission of pus through these vessels, and the lymphatic glands, thence into the venous circulation. Bat, in objection to this interpretation of pyaemia, may be urged the apparent impossibility of pus-corpuscles finding their way through a lymphatic o-land ; owing to the fact that the lymphatic vessels in the gland, having divided into yet smaller vessels, enter into spaces which are filled with cellular elements ; thus offering an insurmountable obstruc- tion to the passage of pus-corpuscles. Enlightened, however, by our present knowledge respecting the amceboid activity with which pus- cells are endowed, this difficulty would appear to be questionable. But Virchow, who adduces the anatomical argument here referred to, enforces it by an experimental observation as to the effect produced in the proximate lymphatic glands, by the absorption of insoluble colour- ing matter, after tattooing some distant part, say the arm, with gun- powder or cinnabar. The lymphatic vessels transmit, in the current of lymph, molecules of such matter, which are smaller than even the' smallest j)us-corpuscles, bu.t which are always arrested and deposited in the nearest group of glands; as shown on section. It is further alleged, that any iiTitation of the lymphatic glands, in connection with suppurative lymphatitis, will give rise to an increased production of lymph-corpuscles; thus inducing a blood-condition which cannot be distinguished from the apparent admission of pus-corpuscles,—leucocy- tosis, as if pyeemia. Arteritis rarely advances to apparent suppuration, and more rarely are there any consequent symptoms of pyaemia. But now and then, utter prostration, with an incredibly rapid pulse, suggest this inference; and the oppressive delirium of pyaemia speedily closes the scene. Such cases may be instances of capillary embolism, arising from the disin- tegration of a fibrinous clot in the inflamed artery, fragments of which matter being carried in the blood-stream, are arrested in the capillary vessels of various organs, as the kidney or spleen, forming metastatic deposits therein. Suppurative phlebitis, suppurative inflammation of the lymphatics, and possibly, suppurative arteritis, are not the only apparent sources of pyemia,—the immediate cause being the direct transmission of pus from the vessels in which it is formed into the general circulation. Precisely the same constitutional disorder frequently follows the absorption of pus from suppurating surfaces, as wounds and sores. Yelpeau, Marechal, Hochoux, and others have attributed pyasmia solely to absorption, and in such cases. What are the particular circumstances which allow the absorption of pus from a suppurating surface, so as to induce pycemia ? It is well known that pus may be absorbed from an abscess without pya3nxia ensuing, the pus-corpuscles having previously undergone a fatty