686 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Excision of the wlwle bone is rendered necessary by an extent of disease beyond the range of either of the previous partial operations, in the shaft or articular end. Amputation is justifiable only under exceptional, and perhaps extreme, circumstances; where the caries is too extensive in connected bones to admit of excision, or when constitutional exhaustion has supervened. The foot, for example, may be removed for carious disease involving the tarsal bones, with perhaps prolonged discharge. When excision has failed, amputation is necessarily the last resource. Necrosis.—The death of a portion of bone is analogous to Mortifi- cation of the soft parts; and it has the same pathological relation to Caries that Mortification has to Ulceration, Caries is molecular death or disintegration of the osseous texture; Necrosis, the death of a visible portion or mass of bone. Not unfrequently, both are associated in the same bone. Structitral Condition.—Necrosis—like Caries—may affect the stih- stance, or the surface, of a bone. In the one form of necrosis, the dead portion is named the sequestrum, a term more particularly applicable when the piece of bone is loose and enclosed by new bone; and when limited to the deepest portion of bone around the medullary caual, the necrosis is sometimes named central; while, in the other form, a super- ficial scale-like portion of dead bone is designated an exfoliation. Necrosed or dead bone is smooth or rough, hard Fig. 30i.* and white ; becoming brown or black, and softened, when exposed to the action of decomposing pus and the air, from sloughing of the integument. It is avascular, not yielding any blood when wounded, and insensible. Reparation.—The wliole sutstance of a bone, or its central portion only, may be necrosed; in point of extent also, the whole length of the shaft of a long bone may be dead, and occasionally even the epiphyses are involved. But the process of repara- tion will be typically described by reference to that form of necrosis in which the whole substance, or thickness, of the shaft of a long bone, e.g., the tibia, is necrosed ; and as consequent on acute ostitis. The periosteum, at first adherent, soon loosens its con- nection with the subjacent dead bone, and deposits ossific lymph between itself and the surface of the bone. This lymph-deposit undergoing ossification, forms a sheath of new bone over or around the dead portion, which thus becomes enclosed in an osseous case. The periosteum is the chief, but not the only, source of osseous reproduction in necrosis. The instructive specimen here represented, exhibits the periosteal pi'oduction of new bone in the tibia of a boy, after necrosis of a large extent of the whole thickness of the wall. The outer surface of the sequestrum is quite smooth, the periosteum having separated without any portions of bone being attached to it._ On the inner surface of the detached periosteum—the external dark line being * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,133.