CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 276 may, however, sometimes be used witli advantage; as the diluted nitric acid, 3i. to ^v'lix. of water, or a weak solution of sulphate of copper, o-fs.v. to 5i-; tannic acid, ^i. to ^vi., is another good formula, or perhaps the aromatic wine, ji. to ,^iii. of diluent, as employed by French surgeons; while nitrate of silver, grs.xv. to ^i., is much recommended by Rollet. Disinfectant and cleansing washes may be substituted, as occasion requires; a chlorinated solution, 3!. to ^'li. of water; or a solution of carbolic acid, 3ii. to Oi., which Professor Bumstead prefers. The various forms of ulceration which both chancre and chancroid may assume, as already noticed, will require modifications of treat- ment accordingly. Thus, the inflamed and the irritable sores are to be treated by the same measures which would be appropriate for similar ulcers otherwise arising. Inflamed and siippurating indurated chancre is a rare variety, but an inflamed and indurated chancroid—the phlegmonoid form, so named by Ricord—is not uncommon; in either condition, the inflammatory character must be met by the application of cold lotions, or poultices, and other antiphlogistic measures. Phagedcenic ulceration comparatively seldom attacks chancre, and is connected with secondary symptoms of the most severe and intract- able character; in the form of rupia, chi-onic periostitis and ostitis, sloughing ulceration of the throat and nose. PhagedEenic chancroid is not infrequent. In either case, the ulceration may have the creeping and persistent form of serpiginous phagedasna, spreading to an un- limited extent. Treatment comprises free cauterization with strong nitric acid, or the actual cautery; opium, tonics, and a supporting diet; a temperate, quiet life, and fresh air. Ricord speaks highly of the potassio-tartrate of iron, and so also does Mr. Lee, both as a tonic and local application. A mixture of half an ounce of this salt to three ounces of water may be taken thrice daily, in doses of a tablespoonful, an hour after meals ; and a solution applied to the ulcer as a dressing. The co-existence of phimosis, with sub-preputial ulceration, frequently occurs ; and then the foreskin must be slit up, to reach the part afi^ected. Bubo.—(1.) Indurated Bubo, or a bullety, hard, and indolent swelling of one or more lymphatic glands, commonly in the groin, is generally the consequence of a previously indurated chancre, with accompanying systemic infection. No preventive treatment, therefore, can avail to avert the development of this kind of bubo, when, at least, the causa- tive chancre has undergone induration. Curative measures relate to the treatment of constitutional syphilis, under the influence of which treatment the bubo may gradually subside and disappear by resolution; meanwhile occasioning little inconvenience. (2.) Soft, and Suppu- rating Bubo is usually the consequence of a similar kind of ulcer— chancroid ; and both having simply a locally contagious nature, this causative bubo is amenable to treatment accordingly. Prevention may be accomplished by the early destruction, or abortive treatment, of the original chancroid, in the manner already explained. Ctirative indications comprise—the resolution of inflammation, if possible, in order to prevent suppuration ; or in that event, the treatment of abscess, and of the resulting ulcer. Inflammation may be sub- dued by rest in the recumbent posture, cold lotions, local blood- letting, counter-irritation, or compression; aided by a somewhat