GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 96 ceased to spread, i.e., when the Hving organism is separating itself from the dead part, and wlien adhesive inflammation of the blood- vessels, corresponding to the line or fissure of separation, has inter- cepted any further communication through these vessels with the dead tissues. Mortification, itself a destructive process, is, like ulceration, occa- sionally restorative, or reparative, by virtue of its purpose. It is so in the loosening and evulsion of a foreign body by sloughing of the part wherein it is embedded, the natural process whereby a thorn in the flesh is extricated. The spontaneous cure of aneurism, by sloughing, is another example; with many others of similar character. Treatment of Inflammation, and its Consequences.—The earliest occasion for interference with inflammation is determined by consider- ing its purpose with reference to the part afi'ected. If it be the repar- ation of some loss of structure, or the construction of some new and useful mechanism in connection with such part, the process should be allowed to run its course, or when inadequate, it should be encouraged by maintaining or superinducing the requisite conditions. Reparatively, inflammation is available in the healing of incised wounds or fractures, when the soft tissues or the bone are indisposed to unite by non-inflammatoiy adhesion. Other instances of this kind are cited at p. 77, and many additional illustrations will occur in practice. Constructively, the plastic operation of lymph-deposit is available for the opening of an abscess safely from a great depth and by a dangerous route ; and here also many analogous cases, additional to those noticed at pp. 77-8, are sure to come under the observation of the watchful clinical observer. Supplemental to the restorative purpose of inflammation, as viewed productively, the destructive aspect of this process may have a similar character. Thus, ulceration forms an opening for the discharge of superfluous organizable material—pus ; and mortification, by slough- ing, is useful in loosening and facilitating the evulsion of a foreign body. Obviously in any such case, if interference be necessary, the destruction of textures can be turned to good surgical account. Whenever the purpose of inflammation is neither reparative, con- structive, nor usefully destructive, the process should forthwith be arrested, or siibsequently conducted to a favourable issue. In accordance with the pathology and causes of inflammation, the following are the general indications of treatment to be observed:— (1.) The removal of any exciting cause or causes in operation is the fundamental rule of treatment; bearing more especially on the arrest of inflammation. The causes alluded to comprise the various kinds of ii-ritant matters—mechanical, chemical, and vital—that were enu- merated among the "external" causes of inflammation (p. 70); more- over, any constituent of the organism which has become a foreign body, and morbid products, which are more apt to assume that character. They are the " internal " exciting causes of iiiflammation (p. 71). The significance of their operation, and the efficacy of. their removal, as causes of irritation, are well illustrated in the every-day practice of Surgery. Blood, extravasated and decomposing, is a poison ; its evacuation is followed by the subsidence of infianimation and constitutional disturbance. A slough of soft textures contauii-