PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. Vil of the Eye " has been revised and considerably enlarged by Mr. Power, senior Ophthalmic Surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hos- pital ; the chapter on the " Ear " is entirely due to Mr. Purves, Aural Surgeon to Guy's Hospital; and that on "Dental Sur- gery " to Mr. Charles S. Tomes. " Diseases of the Throat and Larynx " are represented by the large experience of Dr. Morell Mackenzie; and, in like manner, Mr. William Adams has dealt with "Deformities," as including Orthopoedic Surgery, and Lateral Curvature of the Spine. Professor Erasmus Wilson has written a chapter on " Diseases of the Skin," presenting an original view of Dermatology, reclaimed from the barren technicalities of a speciality, and cultivated in the light of general pathology and therapeutics. The concluding chapter, on " Diseases of the Female Genital Organs," has been revised and extended by Dr. Robert Barnes. I have also to thank Dr. Mahomed for having com- municated a special description of the " Sphygmograph " and its applications in various clinical investigations. Nor should I omit to mention the kindly assistance I have had from my colleague, Mr. William Rose, by his review of " Cleft Palate and its Treatment." These valuable revisions and additions cannot fail to render this work a more complete expression of British Surgery, and more generally useful. Eight hundred and forty-nine netu wood engravings have been introduced, partly replacing those which have been with- drawn, partly additional, making a total of nine hundred and sixty-nine illustrations—as compared with four hundred and seventy in the previous edition. The great majority have been selected, by permission, from the rich collections of pathological specimens in the Royal College of Surgeons, and most of the Hos- pitals of this metropolis; St. Bartholomew's, St. Thomas's, St. George's, Guy's, University College, London, Middlesex, King's College, St. Mary's, and the Royal Free Hospitals. My acknow- ledgments of all these original illustrations from nature are severally specified by foot-notes throughout the work; and for the information of those readers who may be desirous of acquiring yet further knowledge of this series, some descriptive account of the specimen of injury or disease, and clinical history of the case, are not unfrequently appended from the Museum catalogues m each Hospital, thus so as not to intercept the continuity of the text. In my arduous selection of appropriate specimens from collcc-