CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 261 however, it destroys the true skin, and leaves a small, white, circular scar, depressed in the centre, and not larger than a pin's head. This form chiefly occurs on the face and forehead, -where it somewhat re- sembles acne rosacea, but it may appear on every part of the surface. The pustules dry into a small greyish scab, which separating, may leave either a cicatrix or some injection of the skin. On the limbs, psydraceous pustules are of the size of a lentil, but slightly elevated above the surface, with a hard base; and they contain a very small quantity of yellowish-white matter, contrasting with the copper-coloured elevation on which it rests. They are not followed by ulcers; a thin scab forms on them, which is succeeded by a scar, or sometimes by a livid discoloration, or a small chronic induration. (6.) Impetigo, preceded by slight malaise.—This eruption com- mences with redness of the affected parts; then small collections of purulent matter from irregular-shaped patches, more or less confluent, resting upon surfaces of a coppery-red colour, which are soon covered by scabs irregular in shape, harder, darker coloured, and more adherent than those of non-syphilitic impetigo. Beneath these scabs are ulcerations, followed by scars, varying in shape and extent. This eruption more frequently occurs on the face, but it may alfect any part of the surface. It sometimes appears on several parts simul- taneously, but it has no tendency to spread. It is always secondary. (c.) Ectlujma.—The pustules are still larger,—the size of a shilling, or more isolated, and few in number; chiefly occurring on the limbs, and especially the legs. Commencing as large livid spots, the epidermis becomes raised over a considerable portion of each spot, by a greyish, sero-purulent matter, which increases slowly, and is always surrounded by a broad copper-coloured areola, unlike the violet-red of non-syphilitic ecthyma. After a few days, the pustules having broken, scabs form, which are of a circular shape, dark and hard; gradually increasing in thickness they fissure at their edge^ and are very adherent and persistent. On separating, they expose deep round tdcers, Avith sharp-cut hard margins of a purple colour, whilst the bottom is greyish. They have little tendency to enlarge. The scabs generally re-form, and repeatedly, until the ulcers heal; leaving circular and lasting cicatrices. This is the most common species of syphilitic pustular eruption, and that which is usually met with in new-born children. Here, the pustules are broad, superficial, flat, of an oval shape, and in great numbers; the scabs are dark and thick, and conceal small ulcers underneath. The countenance of the patient has quite a peculiar appearance; it is drawn in, and marked with numerous wrinkles, like that of an old person; the skin has an earthy hue, the body is emaciated, and exhales a most disagreeable odour. Ulceration of the Skin in constitutional syphilis, may be either a sequel of some kind of eruption, or it may arise independently; the syphilitic blood-disease always predisposing to disintegration of texture. But the characters of any such ulcer can scarcely be regarded as peculiar to syphilis. Ulceration of the skin in connection with disease of bone about the skull, is specially noticed by Mr. Lee, with reference to its apparent cause—irritation—rather than as arising from the direct influence of the syphilitic poison. The importance of this diagnosis, in relation to the appropriate treatment, is obvious.