GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 336 wards. The pupil may be contracted or dilated. Cerebral comijlicalLuns are very rare; but delirium may supervene towards the close of tetanus. Epilepsy is another quite exceptional complication, in a patient subject to this disease. Screaming and convulsions, apparently not epilepti- form, may occur. Motor-paralysis occurred in two cases of the seventy- two, in G-uy's Hospital, from which the above results were gathered. Remission of the symptoms is extremely rare, yet it has been noticed in several instances. In one case, according to Dupuytren, tetanus subsided for twenty-eight days, and then returned after an exposure to cold. All these anomalous forms of tetanns are worthy of notice, as bear- ing on the, possibly obscure, diagnosis of this disease. Pathology.—Until recently, the pathological anatomy and interpre- tation of the functional or pathological phenomena of tetanus, were involved in great obscurity. It has been regarded as essentially and primarily a blood-disease, the nervous system being secondai'ily affected. This view was revived by Rose, and it is that to which Billroth strongly inclines. But no evidence has hitherto been adduced in proof of any blood-disease. And although the essential nature of tetanus may yet require further elucidation, and especially by a more extensive assort- ment of post-mortem examinations, the original researches of Mr. Lockhart Clarke have brought to light a series of structural changes in the spinal cord, which are of the highest importance. In six cases, these changes may be summarily stated as follow; and, apparently, in the following order of succession. No morbid deposit nor any appreciable alteration of structure takes place in the walls of the blood-vessels of the cord; but the artei'ies are frequently dilated at short intervals, and suri'ounded, sometimes to a depth of double their diameter, by granular and other exudations; beyond and amongst which, the nerve-tissue, to a gi'eater or less ex- tent, has Fig. 82. changes, softening undergone certain In the first stage, of this tissue ; secondarily, granular disin- tegi-ation, the tissue becoming softer or semifluid, and more transparent. Ultimately, the reduction of the tissue to a fluid state. This fluid, at first, is more or less granular, hold- ing in suspension the fi'ag- ments and particles of the disintegrated substances, but in many places it is perfectly pellucid. The blood-vessels also share in the disintegra- tion of the part, and com- mingle with their ensheath- ing granular exudation. Thus a general softening and dis- integration of structure has taken place. A fluid area, of considerable sizC^may occur at a single spot, and extend to the ^--undm^ insane; or at several spots, which advancing, coalesce between niegulai