126 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. essentially morbid character. They possess the inherent power of reproducing their own structural elements, when adequately supplied with blood or plasma as the nutritive material suitable for their production. Hence, I would designate Morbid Growths products of Reproductive Nutrition. They thus increase and multiply. But another vital characteristic is this; they apparently fulfil no useful purpose in the animal economy. It is not, observes Sir James Paget, in the likeness or in the unlikeness to the natural tissues that we can express the true nature of T umours; it is not enough to consider their anatomy, their phy- siology also must be studied; as dead masses, or as Growths achieved, they may be called like, or unlike, the rest of a part; but as things growing, they are all unlike it. It is, therefore, not enough to think of them as hypertrophies or over-growths; they must be considered as parts overgrowing, and as overgrowing with appearance of in- herent power, irrespective of the growing or maintenance of the rest of the body, discordant from its normal type, and with no seeming purpose. Such are the general structural characters, and such the general vital endowments of Growths, or Tumours. But the vital changes of certain Growths contrast remarkably with the progress of others. Some appear to exercise a merely local and mechanical influence; their pathological significance is limited to surrounding parts, which are variously pressed, obstructed, and, possibly, obliterated by absorp- tion. Inflammation, suppui-ation, and ulceration occasionally occur in parts around, owing to pressure of the tumour, and thus a pendulous growth, more especially, may protrude. Otherwise, the healthy mechanism only of the part becomes impaired by these localized Growths. Moreover, when completely extirpated, as by the surgical operation of excision, they never return. Other Growths are localized, but they are also recurring; returning in situ, even again and again, when apparently completely extirpated. And yet other Growths are recurring but not localized; they gradually pervade surrounding tissues, and affect neighbouring lymphatic vessels and glands; they are prone to undergo ulceration, and by extension of this process thus destroy adjacent parts. They propagate also in different and distant regions of the body, and grow in succession and with increasing rapidity. Growths having these vital characters, are aptly denomi- nated infiltrating (Walshe) or .malignant,—a less expressive term; while all other Growths being distinguished by the negation of this generic attribute, are non-infiltrating or innocent, comparatively speaking. According to the clinical distinctions already noticed, coupled with some Anatomical or Histological differences of Species, Morbid Growths may be classified as follows :— Localized Growths (non-infiltrating). Cysts. Simple or barren. Serous. Sanguineous. Synovial, Mucous. Oily. Colloid. Seminal.