SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGEIIY. 44G I have known it proceed to suppuration, Fig. 106. portion of tliickened which constitute the Pig. 107. under similar circumstances, as an .acute abscess. Caries of the patella—consequent on abscess of the bursa—and possibly involving the knee-joint, seems to be the only pathological peculiarity worthy of notice in connection with this disease. The treatment is the same as that of bursal affections in general—the treatment of inflam- mation and suppuration; or, in a chronic state, stimulating applications, puncture and pressure, injection, a seton, or extirpation by careful dissection, having regard to the prox- imity of the joint to the enlarged bursa. Bunion.—Inflammatory enlargement of the bursa situated on the inner aspect of the metatarsal bone of the great toe, or of an adventitious bursa formed in that situation, is the essential element of a bunion. The sac contains an increased quantity of thin serous fluid, or perhaps a dense crystalline secretion, as observed by Sir B. Brodie and M. Boyer. Over this enlarged bursa, a corresponding and homy cuticle, a large corn forms; both of bunion. (Fig. 107.) The toe is generally dis- placed obliquely outwards, lying over or under the adjoining toes ; thus forming an angle more or less obtuse at the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lation, or root of the great toe, and considerably increasing the prominence inwards. Acute pain, redness, and heat—the symptoms of inflammation —accompany this swelling, it being partly an inflammatory enlargement of the bursa. Chronic bunion represents the result of this state, inflammation having subsided into a toler- ably painless enlargement of the bursa; but which is liable to become acute under irritation. The cause of this condition is the pressure of a tight and narrow pointed boot or shoe, habitually worn; whereby the toe gradually becomes turned outwards from its natural direction, increasing the pressure on the root of the toe projecting inwards. The formation of bunion is therefore, mostly secondary to, and the consequence of, this displacement of the toe. Continued and increasing pressure thus bear- in o- on the root of the toe, the bursa there situated enlarges, or a new one is produced, and the superimposed cuticle becomes a corn. The coit^rse of bunion is apt to be very destructive. The internal lateral lio-ament yields under the constant strain, and suppuration within the bursal sac frequently supervenes, the abscess slowly progi-essing to the surface and opening by a small circular aperture in the centre of the horny callosity; or, destroying the ligament and involvmg the joint, the cartilages are eroded, the bones become carious, and partial dislocation inwards is permanently established. Some relief of the intolerable pain and of the other inflammatory symptoms, follows any evacuation of matter; but an indolent and unhealthy sore remains, indisposed to heal.