HYSTEBIA. 357 cold water, every morning, or an enema of soapsuds and castor oil, as occasion may require. Tliere may be some uterine disorder, in the way of amenorrhcea or dysmenori'hoea, to wliicli the Practitioner should direct his attention; but rarely, I believe, will it be necessary to have recourse to any local uterine treatment,—as for disease or displace- ment of the organ itself. The large collection of cases published by Dr. Eobert Lee seems to have fully demonstrated the fallacy or the impropriety of the practice which was once advocated in the treat- ment of hysterical girls—the repeated and demoralizing introduction of a vaginal speculum, to inspect what ?—" a prominent spot of varying size," "a something raised," "an abrasion or erosion." As part of the general treatment of Hysteria, the management of a patient during a fit may be noticed. But little can be done to over- come the attack; much to prolong it by sympathetic interference. The dress, especially the stays, should be loosened, to allow free play to the breathing and relieve the oppressed action of the heart. Cold water may be dashed in the face and on the chest; while a few whiffs of ammonia, applied to the nostrils, may aid in bringing the person out of the attack. However violent and seemingly uncon- trollable the struggles of the patient may be, no forcible restraint need be made; she is not likely to do any harm to herself, as in beating her breasts, and any attempt to hold her will probably aggravate the struggling. In some cases, where the hysteric attack is epileijtiform, and the patient scarcely conscious, it may be desirable to see that she do not bruise herself in the more convulsive movements of such an attack. The tongue is less apt to be protruded and bitten than in true epilepsy; and, indeed, so far as I have witnessed an hysteric attack of this kind, the jaw is drawn down, and the tongue retracted within the widely opened mouth, as the patient fights for breath to overcome what seems to be laryngeal spasm, until the expectoration of a little frothy mucus suddenly brings relief. In any case,, when an hysteric fit is over, sleep is the natural restorative from the exhaustion conse- quent on the muscular exertion. The medicinal treatment of Hysteria must be reinforced by the hygienic resources of good air, and daily exercise out of doors, with change of scene and associations ; thus to take the patient, as it were, out of herself. Bathing often proves very salutary; either in the form of the shower-bath, the hip-bath, or sea-bathing. Under this generally invigorating course of treatment, the hysteric diathesis may possibly be rectified; as an old physician used to say with regard to anaemia, he " washed the patient, ironed her, and put her out to dry." Local hysteric affections are scarcely amenable to any topical measures, apart from the constitutional regime.