DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 827 projects forwards and is more prominent, cotiscquent on a tilting of the ilium forwards on the diseased side. I would not dwell on the attitude of the limb, which is usually straight, or very slightly bent at the groin and knee, perhaps also somewhat abducted and everted— altogether looking like a useless limb, the patient resting his whole weight on the other side. Ultimately, shortening takes place, and wasting, as destruction of the sacro-iliac articulation progresses. Pelvic caries, with abscess, is distinguished from sacro-iliac disease by the different situation of the presenting swelling—in the iliac fossa, or at the tuberosity of the ischium; and there is no pelvic obliquity and prominence of the anterior superior spinous process. No shortening of the limb ensues. Sfinal caries can hardly be mistaken; for, being seated commonly in the dorsal region, the angular excurvation of the spine is removed from the sacro-iliac articulation. Neuralgia affecting the hip is unattended with all those objective signs which relate to structural disease: and the severity of the pain, its paroxysmal character, and migration perhaps to some other part of the body is very unlike the tender or fixed painful swelling of sacro-iliac disease. The age and sex of the patient will probably aid the diagnosis ; a young, hysterical female complaining of intense pain about the hip, diffused, superficial, or even cutaneous, and aggravated by the slightest handling, is not an affection likely to mislead the experienced Surgeon, who is intent upon discovering any evidence of structural disease. Sciatica also, as a painful affection, will be traced in the course of the great sciatic nerve, from the great sciatic notch downwards, external to, and lower down than, the pain of sacro-iliac disease; and which is unaccompanied with any swelling or other objective evidence of structural disease. Occurring, generally, at a more advanced period of life, and associated with a rheumatic tendency, our sciatic patient is soon recognized as a far more familiar friend than the very rare case of sacro-iliac disease we may happen to meet with. Causes.—Acute inflammation of this articulation may result directly from injury; as in a case given by Louis, a sack of corn having fallen on the loins of a man who was stooping at the time. In Sir B. Brodie's case, the symptoms seemed referable to pregnancy, foui' years previously. From the histories of fifty-eight cases collected -by Dr. C. T. Poore,* of St. Mary's Free Hospital, New York, it appears that in eleven the disease was the result of relaxation of the articulation consequent on pregnancy, or pyemic abscess. To rheumatism or gonorrhoea, one case each may be assigned. The disease has a scrofulous origin— according to Mr. Erichsen's experience; but he has never seen it in young children, only in young adults, from fourteen to thirty years old. No difference of liability can be traced to sexual predisposition, beyond the tendency arising from pregnancy ; and in the above series of cases, there were thirty males to twenty-seven females. The ages ranged from four years, as the earliest period of life, to sixty-one, as the oldest. In one case only, both articulations were affected. 1 have seen but one case of this disease, of which the history, by my notes, was briefly as follows :—F. H. H., aged eight, a weakly child from birth. The mother states that her four other children all * "American Journal of Medical Sciences," January, 1878.