592 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. about at a much earlier period than otherwise; a great advantage in relation to the general health, as compared with the prolonged "con- finement endured in the treatment of Fracture formerly. No medicinal treatment or scarcely any of a constitutional character is,_ usually, required in the course of simple Fracture, The shock of injury having passed off, the healing process goes on without appa- rently troubling the general functions of the body; and they, in turn, take little or no notice of the local process. If all the local circum- stances of the part itself be conducive to healing, and the individual be in good constitutional health at the time of the accident, it is then as natural for a fractured bone to heal and restore itself, as to maintain its own healthy integrity of structure by nutrition. Diet should be adapted to the altered hygienic condition of the individual, now disabled for business or pleasure; and, more particularly, it should be propor- tioned to the wants of reparation. At first, therefore, moderate and comparatively innutritions, the diet must soon be more liberal and nutritious. Mild aperients, just to regulate the bowels, are needed not unfrequently, when the patient is confined to bed ; but active purga- tives are, by their action, apt to occasion disturbance of the fractured part, and so peril the process of union. In due time—a period varying considerably, according to the age and health of the individual—any retentive appliance may be finally removed with safety. The fracture must then be gently tried, to test its solidity, by passive motion of the limb. If firm union has taken place, the functions of the limb should be as tentatively resumed. In fracture of the lower extremity, this trial of power should be made venj gradually; for, if worked too soon, the limb shortens under the weight of the body, and permanent crippling is the result. Oedema, in some degree, is inevitable, when first the limb is allowed to be free and pendant. Gentle frictions will aid in restoring the circulation j and a lightly applied bandage gives support to the flesL, as yet flabby. Prolonged confinement, however, would tend to permanently waste and weaken the limb. Thus—as in the management of an incised wound—the artificial support of a fracture is gradually withdrawn, and the limb allowed to resume its functions as gi'adually; until at length unaided Nature can stand alone. Compound Feactdre.—Structural Condition, and Diagnostic Charac- ters.—Compound Fracture is, essentially, Fracture, with a wound in the skin communicating; thus exposing the seat of fracture, however indirectly, to the action cf the air. (See Fig. 197.) The structural dis- organization, as regards the state of the bone, is the same as in simple fracture; but compound fracture is usually accompanied with more severe contusion or laceration of the surrounding soft textures. This condition, coupled with that of the aperture externally, whicli is also contused or lacerated, together form a Contused or Lacerated "Wound, connected with, and around, a Fracture. The Signs of this injury are the same as those of simple fracture, with the additional and distinctive character of an external irregular wound. Therefore, both the condition and characters are those of simple Fracture, plus those of contused or lacerated Wound. Caiises, and Effects of Compound Fracture.—B-ere again, the patho- logical history is that of simple fracture, vnth certain peculiarities super-