410 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. plicates the injury. If the chest be shot through, the patient should be laid on the injured side and cold applied. If emphysema occur, or if air escape freely through the wound, a broad rib-roller should bo applied. If the abdomen be wounded, the patient should be laid on the injured side ; or, if the wound be central, on his back, with the knees drawn np over a pillow or knapsack. Any portion of protruding intestine or other viscera must be gently cleansed with water and at once returned. (3.) Shoclc, or sometimes hcemorrhagic collajyse, may be most peri- Ions; and brandy, wine, or other stimulant must be administered to preserve life. Cold water may be given freely to allay the parching thirst which speedily ensues from loss of blood. The subsequent indications of treatment comprise—^the permanent arrest of ^ hemorrhage; extraction of foreign bodies; the manage- ment of inflammation, and sloughing; and the conditions requiring ampntation. (4.) Hceinorrhage.—The permanent arrest of hasmorrhage may first demand attention. If arterial, the application of a double ligature to the wounded vessel may be necessary; the wound being sufficiently enlarged perhaps by an incision for this purpose, and the vessel secured at not less than half an inch outside the course of the wound, that it shall be unaffected by sloughing of the textures, which would lead to secondary haemorrhage. Whenever, therefore, the bleeding artery cannot be tied, with this precaution, owing to the depth of the wound, the main trunk must be ligatured. Yet this procedure should not be lightly entertained, considering the liability of thus inducing gangrene in a limb otherwise injured; as by ligature of the subclavian, or of the femoral artery. And, moreover, secondary hgemorrhage not unfre- quently occurs. But it is seldom requisite to have recourse to ligature of even the wounded artery for primary ha3morrhage after gunshot injury. When a limb is torn off, leaving a stump, the lacerated vessels soon cease to bleed. Venous h£emorrhage must still be arrested by pressure, and elevation of the limb. The application of a roUer- bandage is advocated by Hamilton as a very effectual means of pre- venting extravasation of blood and serous effusion. Bat it should not be continued after inflammation has set in—say, not beyond the first twelve or twenty-four hours. Other indications for interference with the wound are best de- termined by examining the patient in the position, as nearly as it can be ascertained, in which he was relatively to the projectile that struck him. In any other posture, the apparent course of the ball in the body, and thence also the probable extent of injury or the parts implicated, would be modified by muscular action and by the various degrees of elastic retraction of the wounded textures. The relative situations of the rent in the clothing and the entrance-opening in the flesh, should also be compared. (5.) Foreign Bodies.—To detect any such substance, the finger is the best searcher or probe. Various forms of gunshot probe have been devised; an instrument provided with a bulb-end being Uie most serviceable. In case of doubt or difficulty of examination as to the lodgment of a leaden bullet, N61aton's probe, having a bulb of un- glazed porcelain, should be introduced; and if, in firmly touching the foreign body, its point receives a metallic mark, as shown when