SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 384 artery, of wliatever size, and it is, I believe, generally preferred. Tor- sion-forceps are now in general use; an instrument furnished with transversely serrated points, and closed by a slide when the end of tlie vessel has been seized. (Fig. 95.) Comparison of Ligature, Acupressure, and Torsion.—The occlusive process, in the changes which the artery and contained blood undergo by ligature, acupressure, and torsion, may be thus summarily stated :— Firstly, in all three, conical clot-formation and plugging of the vessel, adjoining the line of compression, or of twist; and, in acupressure, this is the only provision against tbe supervention of haemorrhage, when tbo surgical appliance, the needle, is withdrawn. Secondly, in both ligature and torsion, division of tlie inner and middle coats of the artery, transversely, at the line of operation ; followed by lymph-deposi- tion and sealing of the vessel. This is the only additional provision against the supervention of hasmorrhage, when the ligature separates: but in torsion, the twist of the vessel is persistent, and reduplication of the divided coats, probably in a funicular form, acts also mechanically as a valve, against the occurrence of htemorrhage. In relation to the treatment of hcemorrhage, the formation of a clot-plug might seem an insufficient provision to prevent its recurrence, when the needle is with- drawn after acupressure, so that secondary hemorrhage would then take place; yet the results of experience, already referred to (p. 381), have shown that this single provision is sufficient, without the additional security of lymph-deposit and sealing of the vessel, as at the line of ligature or of twist; or the exti-a and mechanical security afforded by the persistency of the twist, and the funicular valve of lining membrane. But assuming the liability to the occurrence of secondary haemorrhage to be about equal after either of the three methods of surgical treatment, the tendeiacj to primary v/iiion of the flesh-wound, and the prevention of pycemic infection of the system, must be very different. Torsion has decidedly the advantage over either ligature or acupressure, in regard to both these very important considerations. The twisted portion of an artery not being killed, as its subsequent adhesion shows, no sloughing of the end of the vessel ensues—when this portion is allowed to remain in the wound ; yet this event neces- sarily and intentionally ensues after the application of ligature, or accidentally by prolonged acupressure; and no other foreign body is allowed to remain in the wound, for however short a period, to possibly prQvoke suppuration, as after both these methods of treatment. "Wounds of Veins.—The same forms of injury may occur as those to which arteries are liable, and they having been already sufficiently described, need not be repeated. The Signs of any such wound are venous haemorrhage; the blood of a purple or black colour, and flowing in a continuous stream, unlike the jetting of florid red blood from an artery. The size of the stream soon diminishes, and hsemorrhage may be arrested, by collapse of the thin walls of the veins ; while any return flow fi-om the cardiac end of the vessel is stopped by the valves, unless when the bleeding proceeds from valveless veins, as those of the portal system. Veins of the largest calibre, as the internal jugular, subclavian, axillary, and femoral, con- tinue to bleed copiously ; but the stream is intermittent during inspira- tion, and accelerated by expiration. The force and, in some degree, the rapidity of the stream are regulated by the size of the vein, or of