47 INFLAMMATION. Whatever be tlie source of increased heat, it continues witli the inflammation, unlike the transient warmth of blushing, or other non- inflammatory determination of blood. Respecting its diagnostic value, the increased heat arises at the same time as the redness; it is an equally early, if not an equally exact sign of inflammation. (3.) Swelling.—The persistent or inflammatory determination of blood is accompanied with the appearance of coagulable lymph or fibrin, and serum,—constituting what is known as effusion or exuda- tion; which by its accumulation in the part, and augmented by increased textural productiveness, or proliferation of tissue, in both ways gives rise to swelling in a greater or less degree ; unlike the issue of that temporary distension of the vessels, which ordinary determina- tion of blood denotes. From a persistent increased flow of blood, the surcharged vessels would appear to be gradually relieved by effusion of the liquor sanguinis. Virchow regards the fibrin, not as an exudation or effusion from the vessels, but as an educt from the vessels, in consequence of the activity of the histological elements themselves. Professor Bennett suggests that the tissues attract the fibrin, which, however, pre-exists in the blood. The engorged vessels themselves occasion some degree of swelling of the part; an increase proportionate to the vascularity of the part, and to the degree of turgescence of its vessels. Full-blooded internal organs become most swollen in this way, such as the lungs, liver, spleen, and kidneys when inflamed. But with persistent engorgement further enlargement ensues by effusion, and the situation, size, shape, consistence, and physical characters generally of this swelling, will, for the most part, depend on the kind of structure in which it takes place. Liquor sanguinis is readily effused into the constituent cellular texture of the organ, or part inflamed, and therefore most readily into the substance of loosely parenchymatous organs ; frequently, moreover, the most vascular, such as those just enumerated. Lymph and serum overflow into cavities, e.g. into serous membranes and synovial sacs. These and similar structures solicit the overloaded vessels to relieve themselves, and their size becomes enlarged, in a corresponding measure, by inflammation. Witness hepatized lungs from pneumonia in its second stage ; immense enlargement of the liver from chronic inflammation ; enormous increase of the spleen, forming the ague- cake by an analogous process; and the large size to which the kidneys attain by chronic nephritis and Bright's disease. Phlegmonous erysipelas—engaging, as it does, the subcutaneous cellular tissue deeper and deeper—is characterized by considerable swelling. Witness the opposite results in tight, unyielding textures—;such as effusion beneath fasciae and in fibrous textures generally, and an abscess formed in the substance of bone, but unattended with any perceptible swelling, and suspected only by the intense and unremitting pain it occasions. Certain textures allow of an intermediate amount of swelling between the extremes presented by cellular and fibrous tissues. Such are the degrees peculiar to the skin and mucous membranes. Of the latter I may mention pulpy thickening of the large intestine in cases of chronic dysentery; while swelling, in some measure, of the skin is one feature