Fig. 374.* 763 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. (2.) Dislocation intotlie great Ischiatie Notch corresponds so nearly ; in its pathology with that on the dorsum ilii, so to require only a , differential description. The head of the femur lies in the great sciatic : notch, behind and a little above the acetabulum; being situated between i the upper margin of the notch above, 1 and the sacro-sciatic ligaments below, t (Fig. 374.) It rests upon the pyrifor- • mis muscle; or upon the gemelli and 5 sacro-sciatic nerve, g-s in a case dis- : sected by Mr. Syme. The attitude of I the bone, and rupture of the ligaments J and muscles, are very similar to the I condition of dorsal dislocation. With 1 reference to the tendon of the obtu- ] rator internus, the head of the femur ] passes downwards and backwards, and i then being carried upwards, it is t arrested by the tendon, or passes be- I hind it. Hence, Bigelow names this t dislocation " dorsal below the tendon." ' Ischiatie dislocation is sometimes : secondary to that on the dorsum; but ] more frequently the former, by secon- < dary displacement, is converted into i the latter. Mechanisin of Hip-joint Dislocation.—The production of the different f forms of Hip-joint dislocation seems to depend, essentially, upon the i integrity or the disruption of the ilio-femoral ligament, in the act of (dislocation. It should be remembered that this ligament is that strong I band which extends over the front of the capsule of the hip-joint, J passing obliquely downwards between the anterior inferior spinous pro- (cess of the ilium, and the anterior inter-trochanteric line bounding the meek of the femur. (See Fig. 373.) Thus attached at its extremities, t the band is closely connected also to the forepart of the capsule, which lit materially strengthens as an accessory ligament in front of the joint. ^When not rujjiured, the resistance of this ligamentous band allows of c displacement of the femoral head only in four directions, thus produc- i ing one or other of the four regular dislocations of the hip-joint; when r ruptitred, one or other of the irregular dislocations of this joint may be {produced. With regard to the regular displacements ; dorsal disloca- ttion owes its inversion to the external fasciculus of the ilio-femoral 1 ligament; in the ischiatie dislocation, the head of the femur is arrested iin extension by the tendon of the obdurator internus muscle; in thyroid c dislocation, the flexion and eversion of the limb are due to the ilio- ffemoral ligament; and in pubic dislocation, the ascent of the femoral Ihead is arrested by this ligament. Dissections instituted by Dr. Fenner cof New Orleans, Gunn of Michigan, Moore of Rochester, Busch of Bonn, sand by Roser, Weber, Gelle, and Von Pitha, led the way to the more c complete investigations by Dr. H. J. Bigelow, of Harvard University. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 23'. Dislocation of the femur on the sacro-sciatic B notch, or, rather, just behind the acetabulum. The pyriformis and gluta^us minimus B muscles are stretched over the head of the bone ; the obturator internus, with the vtom gemellus muscles (not seen), lie immediately below. (Presented by Mr. SMacCormac. See also "Eeports of the Hospital," vol. ii. p. 1.)