MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 35 ansesfchefcic properties; others deny that it is an hypnotic or anaesthetic, but regard it as a powerful excitant. I have found its action to be very uncertain. Local Anesthesia.—The application of cold to a part of the body, in order to reduce the temperature of that part to a frost-bitten con- dition, is a mode of anaesthesia which may be advantageously employed in certain surgical operations. It is eligible in all superficial and limited operations, in regard both to their extent and the time requisite for their performance. Such are, the avulsion of a toe-nail, puncturing abscesses, slitting up fistula, and-the excision of small tumours. Freezing of the part operated on may be eiSected either by the application of a frigorific mixture, as introduced by Dr. J. Arnott, or by the ether-spray, devised by Dr. B. W. Richardson. The frigorific mixture of pounded ice and salt is easily made, and answers admirably. This mixture is put into a muslin bag, and applied to the part, being raised in a minute or two to see whether the desired effect has taken place. The skin almost immediately loses its colour and becomes white, a change the more observable when previously reddened by inflammation; but this blanching of the skin is no sign of freezing having occurred; soon, however, a dead white, opaque spot appears, quickly spreading over the cutaneous surface, and then the part is frozen and anaesthesia produced. The integument cuts hard, like parchment, and the blood is singularly florid. Reaction speedily sets in, the part bleeds freely, and often becomes very painful. But no constitutional disturbance accompanies, or ensues from, this freezing of a part of the body. I have seen or known only one case of any un- favourable consequence. The patient, a healthy, florid young woman, had sat and seen me remove one of her great toe-nails, looking at the operation with perfect indifference; but when reaction took place, she suddenly fainted, and again and again, until the syncope was alarming. The EtJier-spray is another means of freezing a part and inducing local angesthesia; but in this method it is effected by evaporation of ether thrown upon the surface in the form of a fine spray from a little apparatus contrived by Dr. Richardson for the purpose. It offers a more ready method for the convenience of surgical practice, as it may always be kept at hand; whereas ice cannot always be obtained. Unfortunately, so far as my experience has gone, the apparatus, simple in itself, usually seems to be out of working order when wanted. Dangers attending, or consequent on, Surgical Operation.—The perils pertaining to operation are principally as follows :—(1) Haemorr- hage, primary and secondary; (2) Shock; (3) Exhaustion; (4) Tetanus; (5) Inflammation; (6) Gangrene; (7) Erysipelas; (8) Pyaemia. Of these different contingencies, some are coincident with, others consequent on, the operation. They will all be fally considered in various chapters of this work. Dressing of the Wound, and Constitutional After-treatment.— The dressing of a wound made by surgical operation is the same as that of an Incised Wound, or Amputation-Stump ; and the dressings will vary with the supervention of Inflammation, and its consequences Suppuration, Gangrene, and Ulceration. The Constitutional After- treatment must have reference to the various states of the system in the contingencies already alluded to; and to those resultino- from