EHEUMATISM AND GOUT. 241 sucli distribution exhibits also tbe elective power of similar portions of the same texture. But although the blood, vitiated in some way, is determined to the fibrous texture, by virtue of its elective power, we cannot say what particular ingredient, normal or foreign to the blood's composition, is appropriated thereby. The texture undergoing rheumatic inflamma- tion selects something—but what ?—from the blood. Judging by the acid state of certain secretions—perspiration, saliva, and urine—during an attack of acute rheumatism, it would appear that an acid of some kind prevails in rheumatic blood; and, first suggested by Prout, other authors—Todd, Fuller, 0. J. B. Williams, Headland, etc.—have since concurred in believing that this acid is lactic acid. It is urged that as the perspiration contains lactic acid, with lactates of soda and ammonia, and that exposure to cold, checking this secretion, is well known to be frequently followed by an attack of rheumatism, that therefore this disease is due to an accumulation of lactic acid in the blood. But then, sufficient exposure to cold ought invariably to have this effect; or—making- allowance for individual peculiarities of constitution—at least in many instances such would be the effect of exposure. Moreover, the not unfrequent spontaneous origin of rheu- matism in hospitals, where patients are protected from exposure, is irreconcilable with the theory in question. Again, it is alleged that primary mal-assimilation—dyspepsia, in fact, of some kind—produces lactic in excess, which accumulates in the blood. But this theory also is not consistent with observation, so far as the absence of any symptoms of indigestion is significant. Neither has it been demonstrated that lactic acid accumulates in the blood, as the product of secondary textural mal-assimilation; for chemical research has failed to discover any abnormal quantity of this acid in rheumatic blood. And this fact equally tells against the supposition of its accumulation by primary mal-assimilation, or by suppressed excretion of the perspiration. Nor does uric acid superabound in rheumatic blood. Garrod's chemical analyses establish this negative fact. In truth, rheumatic blood is decidedly alkaline. Treatment.—Preventive.—The essential morbid condition—which, in those subject to rheumatism, is ever in operation as the cause predis- ; posing thereto—being unknown, the evolution of rheumatic symptoms, I from time to time, cannot be averted; and as if to show how com- 1 paratively unimportant, apart from this knowledge, is that of knowing 1 the exciting and reputed cause of rheumatism, it is useless to avoid < exposure to cold, for that alone will never evoke the disease, and if the 1 blood be charged with the unknown poison, it will arise spontaneously. Curative Treatment.—The same want of exact knowledge as to the {•nature of the rheumatic blood-poison, renders our remedial measures It proportionately aimless. Whatever it be, there is probably, as with other blood-poisons, a natural tendency to elimination from the system hby one or more of the excretory organs. Hence, it is not surprising ,t that experience should sanction the employment of medicines affecting t. the liver and intestinal canal, the kidneys and skin. In amte rheumatism—with high inflammatory fever—it may be ^necessary, in the first place, to reduce the general circulation by