ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 225 dead part is detached from the living body. Respecting the obvious dependence of this fever on mortification; these two general facts, taken conjointly, seem to warrant the conclusion that absorption of the dead tissues as the connecting link is the immediate cause of the fever. The presence of gas, as decomposition supervenes on sphacelus, is probably a co-operative cause, subsequently, by its direct influence on the nervous system. Absorption of dead matter primarily, nervous sympathy secondarily, and ultimately both together, induce and main- tain the typhoid fever which proceeds from mortification. Treatment of Moetipication.. Taking a comprehensive retrospect of the pathology and etiology of (ulceration and) mortification, the Indications of Treatment are four :— (1.) To remove the cause or causes in operation, and thus arrest the progress of death. (2.) To remove the dead part—e.g., a slough, a sequestrum, a limb ; and the proper time for such surgical interference. (3.) To solicit the natural separation of the dead part, with repara- tive closure of the blood-vessels; and then the reparative process of granulation and cicatrization. (4.) To control the constitutional disorder, consequent on mortifi- cation. (1.) The first indication of Treatment—that of removing the cause or causes of mortification—requires no further explanation than by reference to the causes themselves, whether they be external or in- ternal. Thus, any occasion of pressure, as by a tight bandage, must be removed ; or ossification of the arteries in the legs must be managed, by reference to the pathology of this internal cause, as a persistent condition, in senUe gangrene. (2.) Removal of the dead part by operation, and the proper time for such surgical interference. The earliest opportunity for fulfilling this indication, with due • regard to the non-recurrence of gangrene in the part adjoining, may 1 be a highly important question for the surgeon's consideration. Thus, the removal of a loose slough of soft textures or a seques- 1 tmm of bone, cannot admit of any such doubt; for there and then, 1 mortification has become defined. The amputation of a limb will, however, be a question having r reference to the spreading of gangrene, and the probability of its re- currence in the stump. The consideration which j?ariZy determines this question is,, the con- s stitutional or the local origin of the gangrene. In the former case, s spreading without limitation, as to its extent, amputation must be post- r poned until the "line of demarcation" has formed; in the latter, limited ■i va. its extent to the source of gangrene, and probably restricted to within I! that boundary, by the establishment of a collateral circulation, from i above to below, amputation may be performed prior to the formation of ti the line of demarcation. Thus, in traumatic gangrene, from whatever cause,—contused or lacerated wound, compound fracture or disloca- ition—amputation is determined, not by waiting for the limitation of ' sloughing, but by the extent of injury as its source. Q