CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 269 softened state of sucti tumonrs may present the appearance of purulent infiltration or abscesses in the lungs; a so-called suppuration of the thymus gland, often found after death, is pi'obably of a similar nature; syphilitic peritonitis has been noticed by Sir James Simpson ; and lastly, the albuminoid liver, a degeneration of very common occurrence in congenital syphilis. First noticed by Grubler (1848), and afterwards minutely described by Diday, this albuminoid degenera- tion may be recognized—as Sir William Jenner observes—by certain characters; the liver is large, smooth, hard, heavy, pale, and semi- transparent, and infiltrated with a matter something like glue. The Treatment of Congenital Syphilis will be mentioned in con- nection with the general Treatment of Syphilis. Vaccino-Syphilitic Inoculation.—A most important social question is, whether a true chancre—an infecting syphilitic sore—can be com- municated by vaccination, through the vaccine virus ? Dr. Viennois, in 1860, brought forward cases, apparently, of such syphilitic trans- mission ; other cases subsequently occurred under M. Trousseau, in the Hotel Dieu ; and, since, at Rivalta, an overwhelming demonstration occurred, one child, thus infected, having re-transmitted the disease to another child, and thence, through both, to forty-five other children, and to twenty other mothers or nurses ! In this country, the observations of Mr. Thomas Smith and of Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson have since borne corroborative testimony as to the possibility of vaccino-syphilis. Diagnosis of Constitutional Syphilis.—The presence of constitu- tional syphilis, as manifested by secondary symptoms, is determined solely by the calculation of probabilities; and this is the basis of diagnosis in respect to all diseases, excepting the few that are abso- lutely determined by pathognomonic signs. The diagnostic value of any one symptom is represented by the constancy of its presence and association with the same disease, and by the early period of its occurrence. But the co-existence, or at least the conseciitiveness, of symptoms, any one of which is equivocal, per se, constitutes a weight of evidence greater in the aggregate, than that which the several items of evidence would represent by being merely added together. To illustrate this force of concurrence, by the evidence of secondary symptoms, I shall pass over the order of priority of these symptoms ; thus overlooking the relative value of each, as an early symptom. No one secondary symptom is sufficiently constant or peculiar to syphilis, to make their order of succession a question of much practical interest. But the fact of these symptoms being concurrent in the same person, outweighs their inconstancy. Let the weight of (iwii-syphilitic proba- bility be represented by 5 ; then any one of the five usual secondary symptoms may be absent, or, if present, may point perhaps to constitu- tional syphilis, perhaps to the mercurial crasis, perhaps to both; per- haps to neither of these blood-diseases, but proceed from other causes. Thus, the skin-eruption having a coppery hue ; the excavated ulcer of either or both tonsils ; iritis; enlarged testicle ; node, caries, necrosis; are severally equivocal symptoms of constitutional syphilis ; but taken collectively, or at least as consecutive symptoms, they outweigh the sup- posed anti-syphilitic counterpoise. Constitutional syphilis is diagnosed by an overbalance of probabilities in its favour—this overbalance being due, not to the actual diagnostic value of each symptom or probability,