772 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and powerlcssness equally so, with pain or numbness frequently, owing to pressure on the anterior crural nerve. _ The diagnosis irom fracture of the neck of the femur may be deter- mined by the situation of the head of the bone and immobility, with crepitus in the case of fracture; or if the fracture be i/mpaciecl, the head of the bone is still diagnostic. Causes.—When the limb is directed back- wards, and perhaps abducted, dislocation upon the pubcs may occur; either by a fall on the foot, as when a person slides down from the end of a waggon; or when walking, the foot is suddenly planted into a hole, the pelvis advances, while the upper part of the body is thrown forcibly backwards, in order to avoid a fall. A severe blow on the back of the pelvis may have the same effect in producing dislocation upon the pubic bone. Unreduced dislocation leads to the forma- tion of a tolerably complete new joint. This result was found in the case examined by Sir A. Cooper. Upon the pubes a socket was formed for the neck of the femur, the head being above the level of the pubes. Both the latter portions of bone were flattened; the trochanter also was much altered in shape, and it partly occupied the acetabulum, which was otherwise filled with osseous deposit. This specimen is still in the Museum of St. Thomas's Hospital. The specimen I have figured is another illustration of a new joint. Treatment.—(1.) The patient lying on his back, with the dislocated side near the edge of the bed, extension should be made from the lower part of the thigh, downwai'ds and back- wards, the pulleys being fixed accordingly; while counter-extension, by means of a perineal girth, is made in the opposite direction, over the body of the patient. (Fig. 38G.) This force having, as usual, been Fig. 386. applied slowly, gradually increased, and steadily maintained, the head of the bone is lifted over the brim of the acetabulum by a towel under the upper part of the thigh, and the ball dii'ectcd backwards by rotat- ing the thigh inwards.