FRACTURE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. 655 conioined psoas and iliacus and by the external rotator muscles; and in the lattei", the lower fragment is much drawn backwards by the gastrocnemius. As a means of extension, the long splint must exceed the leno-th of the limb, by five or six inches beyond the sole of the foot; while, for steady retention, the splint should reach from near the axilla along the side of the chest and limb, to that point. These requisities are best combined in Lisbon's long splint; which, with a perineal band, for counter-extension, should be applied in the following manner. (Fig. 261.) The split ends of a roller are tied to the upper end of the splint, through two holes, aud well secured ; the roller is then drawn down on the inner aspect of the splint, and overlaid by a pad the breadth and length of the splint, to the foot, the pad being kept in position by a few tapes, binding it, at intervals, to the splint. Having well adjusted this padded splint from the axilla to the foot, the roller, running between, should be drawn round the foot, across the instep, and round the end of the splint, where it is received into deep notches, with an intervening point to catch the roller; then drawn round the foot again, and so on in a figure-of-8 fashion. The foot having been thus bound to the end of the splint, as the point of exten- sion, the roller is continued up the limb to below the seat of fracture in the thigh; a perineal band, consisting of a handkerchief covered with oil-silk, should now be passed from the inner side of the thigh around the buttock, drawn well up into the crutch, and the ends passed through the two holes at the top of the splint. By tightening this band, the limb can be extended from below the fracture, and its adjustment having thus been completed, as shown by the length of the limb, when compared with the other, the ends of the perineal band are then tied at the top of the splint. The roller is continued up the thigh, and around the chest and splint nearly to the axilla; further securing both fragments in position, through the medium of the unyielding splint. In compound fracture of the shaft, a long interrupted splint may be used; the bracketed portion opposite the seat of fracture allowing free access to the wound. The only difficulty likely to arise in the course of treatment by the long splint, is some excoriation occasionally, from the perineal band. A little temporary relaxation of the band, or powdering the surface with flour or chalk, will usually succeed in overcoming this difficulty. In the management of a very large number of cases of fracture of the thigh, by means of the long splint and perineal band, I have never experienced any other difficulty, nor has that ever proved insuperable; while the perfect efficiency of this plan of treatment has been attested by the most satisfactory results, in regard to the length of the limb; that generally some slight shortening remains—to about half an inch, with a compensatory obliquity of the pelvis, which renders even this difference of no functional consequence in the use of the limb. In children, owing to their tender skin and restless disposition, the management of the fracture is often more difficult, and the results of treatment are somewhat less satisfactory. It is now generally admitted by Surgeons, both in this country, in America, and on the continent, that some amount of shortening of the limb nearly always results in fracture of the shaft of the femur whether treated by the long splint, or any other form of apparatus.