GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 106 of eight bandage. (Fig. 27.) This is done by carrying the roller round the arm below the elbow, thence upward across the pad, and round the arm above the elbow, down over the pad again to the first turn. The arm being placed in a bent position, should be kept at rest, in a sling, for a few days. In performing venesection, certain accidents are liable to happen, unless the precautions already noticed be observed. Thrombus, in the form of a collection of blood within the cellular texture around the vein, would arise by any displacement of the vein from want of com- pression in the act of puncture, so that the cutaneous and venous orifices do not correspond; or from a too limited cutaneous incision, thus also retaining the blood and causing a lodgment. Aneurisrnal varix, or varicose aneurism, would occur, or result, from thrusting the lancet too deeply, so as to transfix the vein and enter the artery, or from any sudden start of the patient. Hence the importance of selecting a spot for puncture, above or below where the vein obliquely crosses upwards over the artery. To avoid auy risk of wounding the artery, some surgeons have preferred opening the median cephalic vein. A tight bandage after venesection has been known to induce gangrene of the forearm; and as the bandage becomes tightened when the arm is bent, allowance for this should be made in adjusting the turns of the roller. The external jugular vein may be chosen for venesection in certain exceptional cases of inflammation, as in meningitis or encephalitis; or in non-inflammatory affections of the brain, as apoplectic compression. It will be convenient to here notice this method of venesection. The spot selected for puncture is where the vein lies on the sterno-mastoid muscle, the vessel being there more superficial and fixed than in any part of its course. Compression is made with the thumb just below the point for opening the vein, in order to give some prominence to the vessel by distension, and, moreover, prevent the entrance of air, a liability which wonld almost inevitably have a fatal result. The incision should be made obliquely, but across the dii*ection of the fibres of the platysma myoides, which, by their contraction, will thus make the wound gape and secui'e a fair opening. Otherwise, if the incision were made parallel to the fibres of the platysma, scarcely any blood would flow, and extravasation taking place, that would give rise to thrombus. When a sufficient quantity of blood has been abstracted, the thumb is placed over the opening, and a pad of lint slid on to the spot, being there retained by cross strips of adhesive plaster; aided by a bandage, if necessary, carried across the pad, and round under the armpit of the opposite side. Arteriotomy may be performed as an occasional substitute for phlebotomy, and principally in affections of the head or of the eye. The temporal artery is the vessel selected, and its anterior branch, as being superficial, and well supported by the temporal fascia. On compressing the vessel with the thumb on the distal side of the intended aperture, it becomes prominent, and then with the lancet an oblique opening should be made. The blood may be received into an unexhausted cupping-glass; an exhausted receiver would stop the stream by pressure of the circumference of the glass across the vessel. The flow of blood can be arrested by completely dividing the artery, the cut extremities retracting and contracting. If necessary, the ends