375. WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. the vessel, tlie lympli intervenes between it and the clot, whicli it gradually replaces. Daring this change the clot varies in appearance, Tbeing partly lymph, and partly ordinary coagulum. The lower end of a divided artery is closed up much in the same way. According to Gruthrie's observations, it retracts and contracts less than the cardiac end; and the internal coagu.lum is altogether absent, or very imperfectly formed in many instances. (3.) A lacerated wound of an artery, ii jjartial, may extend through the external and middle coats, leaving only a thin undivided inner membrane, which still continues the channel of communication. Hgemorrhage is imminent. Or the laceration may extend through the inner and middle coats, leaving the outer cellular coat entire. Haemor- rhage threatens, or gangrene may supervene. But if the two inner coats be cut rather than torn, reparation generally takes place and secures the vessel. Such is the kind of injury purposely inflicted by the Surgical application of a ligature, which leaves the external coat undivided; and although itself noxious, as a foreign body in the very pathway of reparation, the artery becomes sealed with plastic lymph, plugged up also with coagulum, and obliterated. The details of this process, thus artificially induced by Surgical interference, will be de- scribed in connection with the treatment of haemorrhage. (4.) Complete laceration of an artery—all the coats being torn through—heals without haemorrhage, or scarcely ■any. The process is the same as that which takes Fig. 89. place after division of an artery by incision. But the cellular sheath and outer cellular coat are drawn off the two inner coats, which retract. Consequently the clot that forms in the project- ing portion of loose sheath is larger than when the vessel is simply cut across; presenting a bulb- shaped extremity, which may extend to half an inch or an inch in length. This appearance is well shown in Fig. 89, which represents a popliteal artery and vein in a remarkable case, both vessels having been ruptured by a violent twist of the knee-joint. Grangrene of the leg ensued, for which I amputated above the knee; with, how- ever, a fatal result. Treatment.—Arrest of hgemorrhage is the first indication of treatment. Small arterial vessels spontaneously cease to bleed, almost immediately. Thus, if the vessels be divided entirely across— complete incision—as in most wounds, their cut extremities retracting and contracting soon offer adequate resistance to the escape of blood. This natural provision will be insured by exposure of the wound to cool air, or a stream of cold water squeezed from a sponge. Gentle pressure with the sponge will readily discover whether there be still any oozing from the bleeding points. Larger-sized arteries bleed in jetting streams of florid blood, and the further resources of Surgical treatment are forthwith necessary to meet such htemorrhage. They comprise:—(1) Astringents, including Cold, and Styptics; (2) Cauterization; (3) Compression; (4) Ligature; (5) Acupressure; (6) Torsion.