FRACTUBE. 587 effect. Witli fracture of tlie vertebrae, displacement cannot, and ouglit not to, be reduced. In all otber cases, the reduction of Fracture is our first consideration in its Treatment. With displacement, angular or rotatory, the kind of reduction is obvious. With shortening, extension and counter-extension are required. Reduction.—The limb should be placed in a suitable position, not with the view of relaxing all the muscles, for that is impossible. No position can possibly relax "the whole set of muscles belonging to, or in connection with, the broken bone;" as was recommended by Pott. On the other hand, the alleged unimportance of relaxing those muscles which resist the reduction, as taught by Desault, would be a serious error. The principle inculcated by Sharp and Pott will ever guide the treatment of Fracture, in this respect. The limbs should be semi- flexed, or placed in that position which is natural to the part in a state of perfect repose. In sleep, the limbs are partly flexed, obviously, to relax the flexor muscles, which naturally overbalance the action of the extensors. By this attitude of the limb, if complete reduction cannot be accomplished in the first instance, the fracture may be partially reduced, and the ends of bone placed at rest; and thus in a position less hurtful to the surrounding soft textures. Indeed, in some cases, when the muscles which resist reduction become relaxed, the ends of bone almost fall into easy apposition. They coapt, or adjust themselves into contact. Extension and coimter-extension are necessary only in so far as a suitable position is not of itself sufficient to effect reduction. So co- operative, however, is the relaxation of any resisting muscular action, that it has been, and I believe still continues, an open question with some Surgeons, to what part of the limb the forces of extension and counter-extension should be applied ? Boyer advocated the application of extension to the limb heloio the articulation with the lower fragment, and counter-extension ahove the articulation with the upper fragment. Thus, that in fracture of the leg extension should be applied to the foot, while counter-extension fixes the thigh; in fracture of the thigh, ex- tension should act on the leg, while counter-extension fixes the pelvis. For it is alleged that were these opposite forces applied directly to the broken bone, the pressure of grasping the limb so near the fracture would excite the muscles to spasmodic resistance. But the English School has, ever since the time of Pott, urged the superior importance of flexing the limb; a position which necessitates the application of extension and counter-extension directly to the broken bone ; if in the leg, to the leg; if in the thigh, to the thigh. The extending force should not be forcible, but moderate, and moderated according to muscular resistance; equable, not jerking; and gradually increasing. Applied also, at first, in the direction of the lower fragment, the natural position of the bone is to be thus gradually regained, care being taken to restore the natural length and shape of the limb. Duly observing any deformity of the other limb, congenital or acquired, advantage may be taken of this opportunity to reduce the fractured limb to a corresponding condition, whether of length, shape, or both. Extension cannot prove effectual unless accompanied with counter-extension, equal and opposite. If the fracture be incomplete and the bone only bent, as happens sometimes in young children, reduction should not be accomplished all