537 LIGATURE OF THE RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. offset upwards to anastomose with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. The superficial volar, and the anterior carpal branches, arise just above the wrist. Neither of these branches is important in the yig. 159. operation of applying a ligature to the radial trunk, except the first. Operation.—In the ?tj:»pej- or deeper part—an incision along the inner or ulnar margin of the supinator longus (Fig. 159), and through the deep fascia, will lead down to the artery, which is some- what overlaid by that muscle; its fibres being dis- tinguished by their vertical direction from those of the pronator teres, obliquely crossing the line of incision. Drawing the supinator, and with it the radial nerve, outwards, the artery is seen with its vense comites, one of which commonly lies in front. In passing the needle, it is unimportant whether it be included and ligatured. Lower doivn and superficial towards the wrist, an incision on the outer or radial side of the flexor carpi radialis tendon (see Fig. 159) leads to the vessel, under the deep fascia; lying about midway between this tendon and that of the supinator longus. The radial nerve is here quite out of the way, and the ven^ comites are unimportant. On the back of the wrist, and in the palm, the radial is tied only for Wound, and at the wounded point. In the former situation, as the artery passes from the end of the radius to the apex of the first interosseous space, it is crossed by the tendons of the three extensors of the thumb, suc- cessively ; the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, and the extensors, primi and secundi internodii pollicis. Either of these tendons may guide to the wounded artery. Ligature of the Ulnar Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The ulnar artery extends from the hifurcation of the brachial, opposite the nech of the radms, to the end of the ulna; thence into the palm, to join with the radial in forming the palmar arches, superficial and deep. In direction (Fig. 160), it arches from its commencement, inwards towards the ulna, and then downwards; thus not appearing to be the con- tinuation of the brachial, although the ulnar is of larger size than the radial branch. More deeply placed above between muscles, it becomes quite superficial below as it approaches the wrist. At first, it rests on the insertion of the brachialis anticus into the coronoid process of the ulna; curving inwards and downwards, it lies on the flexor pro- fundus. In the upper half this course, the artery passes hetioeen the flexor profundus and four, of the five, muscles arising from the inner condyle of the humerus, which overlay and cross the vessel in their direction from within outwards; namely, the pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, and, beneath these three, the flexor digitorum sublimis. Then passing between the flexor carpi ulnaris and digitorum sublimis, and overlaid by the former muscle, in its lower half the artery is between the tendons of the flexor ulnaris and sublimis, the former tendon somewhat overlaying it. The ulnar nerve (see