SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 554 interior of tlie artery, in particular, has a crimson line, as thougli some irritating fluid had been injected into the vessel, and it is lined with a slight lamella of lymph here and there, whereby the coats becoming fused, the vessel loses its elasticity. The blood within the vessel coagulates and forms a plug, which more or less completely blocks up the vessel, thus rendering it impervious as a blood-conveying tube, and below which the calibre of the artery is somewhat contracted. This plug, conical in shape, consists partly of a yellowish fibrinous exudation, occupying its base and adhering to the interior of the vessel, and partly of ordinary black coagulum, which forms apparently on this inflammatory portion, and, tailing off to some distance, is not adherent to the vessel. This condition is denominated Adhesive Arteritis. In- flammation, with the apparent secretion of pus, instead of fibrine, from the interior of the vessel, may perhaps occur sometimes, and it is probably of a spreading character; but whether this puriform matter be true pus, or disintegrated fibrine, remains, I think, to be determined by further observation. This condition constitutes the Suppurative and Diffuse Arteritis of some authors. The Symptoms of Arteritis are referable both to the vessel affected, and to the part which it supplies with blood. Induration, and a cord- like feeling of the vessel when passed under the finger, arises from the thickening of its coats, and coagulation within the tube. Pain of a twofold character is experienced; a superficial sensitiveness of the skin over the artery, and a deep burning or lancinating pain in the course of the vessel, and striking through the limb. But any redness or heat in the inflamed part will scarcely be perceptible. The pulsation is pecuharly thrilling or jerking, but it diminishes gradually, and at length ceases. Below the part supplied by the vessel, the temperature declines, accompanied with a sensation of weight and fulness, and a loss of voluntary power. Grangreneis imminent. The general symptoms are those of inflammatory fever, speedily subsiding into prostration. Oauses.—Arising usually from some form of injury—a blow, a strain, a wound, or the application of a ligature—arteritis may also proceed from some constitutional condition of obscure nature. Some blood- condition, probably, representing what is termed a broken constitution, seems to be the cause of the diffuse form of arteritis. The traumatic and constitutional modes of origin may co-operate. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Absorption of the coagulum may take place, the artery regain its natural calibre, and the circulation be fully restored. (2.) Or the coagulum remaining and extending, gan- grene, in the dry form of mortification, supervenes, the arteiy be- coming contracted and obliterated as a fibro-cellular cord. Grangrene may be prognosticated, in proportion to the degree of occlusion, its suddenness, and the size of the arterial trunk. Absorption, or rather, transmission of the fibrinous exudation in a state of disintegration, or of pus if secreted, would seem to occur in some cases, and give rise to the symptoms of Pycemia. This event is, perhaps, more especially incident to diffuse arteritis. Treatment.—Local blood-letting, by means of leeches applied in the course of the vessel, and warm fomentations should be followed by calomel and opium, to prevent fibrinous exudation, and alkaline salines to promote disintegrative solution of the coagulum. But certain measures, remedial in relation to inflammation or its consequences m