447 PARTICULAR BURS^. Treatment.—Removal of tlie cause in operation is primarily impor- tant. A large shoe should be worn, or one with a compartment for the great toe, so as to keep the toe in a line with the metatarsal bone, and thus relieve pressure. By a contrivance of Mr. Bigg's, the toe can be drawn inwards. A compress of thick soft leather, spread with soap- plaster, and cut in the form of a horse-shoe, or a circular piece with a hole in the middle, may be applied; the opening corresponding to the bunion, which is thus relieved from pressure. Inflammation is to be overcome by the usual topical applications; poulticing or cold lotions, according to the state of the bunion. Abscess forming in the bursa, an.opening should be made without delay, both to relieve the intense pain and prevent any destruction of the joint. Chronic bunion is best removed by painting it with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. A large, and perhaps painful cyst, may be de- stroyed, as recommended by Sir B. Brodie and M. Boyer, by an incision into the sac, and cauterizing its inner surface with nitrate of silver or nitric acid. It should be observed whether the sac communicates with the joint. Destruction of the internal lateral ligament, and the articu- lation, may terminate well, by fixing the toe with a gutta-percha splint; or this condition will necessitate excision of the joint or ampu- tation of the toe. I have resorted to the former operation successfally, in some cases. Sheaths of Tendons.—(1.) Tenosynovitis—acute and chronic.— Sheaths of tendons in the neighbourhood of joints, are most liable to inflammation. This is attended with the effusion of fibrinous serum. The flexor and extensor tendons of the wrist, for example, are subject to strains in various laborious occupations. To guard against any such injury, it is not uncommon for navigators, and others similarly em- ployed, to wear a band around the wrist, as a support to the tendons. Direct violence may also give rise to this inflammation ; as in the foot, from contusion of the instep, or the chafing of a tight shoe. Some- times the inflammation seems to be spontaneous or idiopathic. Puffy swelling and some pain in the course of tendons, after injury, denote inflammation of their sheaths. A peculiar creaking, jerking sensation and sound is elicited on moving the part. This latter sign differs from the true crepitus of fracture. Febrile disturbance, more or less acute, accompanies these symptoms. Tenosynovitis terminates perhaps by resolution, with slow absorption of the effusion ; but, more often, adhesions take place between the tendon and its sheath, resulting in stiffness for some time; or a glairy, gelatinous fluid remains within the sheath, presenting a persistent, painless swelling—chronic tenosynovitis. Not uncommonly, the disease proceeds to suppuration, with sloughing of the tendons, which can be pulled out in the form of yellow shreds. The neighbouring joints may become anchylosed, or the bones necrosed. The spontaneous form of the disease—although rare—commences as a diffuse inflammation, in- volving the subcutaneous cellular texture, with great swelling, and rapid suppuration. In suppurative tenosynovitis, the hectic exhaustion and wasting are remarkable. The treatment is in no way peculiar. Rest, and warm fomentations; followed by stimulant applications and pressure in tlie chronic state of inflammation. Blistering, embrocations, and a bandage are thus effica- cious ; or the emplastrum ammoniacum cum hydrargyro employed a»