769 DISLOCATIONS OP THE FIRST PHALANGEAL BONES. Fig. 368.* back, in the left hand of a prizefighter. The first phalangeal bone of the tlmmh is most frequently dislocated, and either baolcwards or forwards (Fig. 368) ; the former displacement occurring more commonly. Hamilton has met "with the backward dislocation nine times, the forward only twice. The Signs are characteristic: a projection of the posterior extremity of the phalangeal bone, in the direction of displacement, and immobility. The tlmmh presents somewhat peculiar appear- ances. Its first phalangeal bone, having slid backwards upon the metacarpal bone, stands off from this bone at an angle ; thus allowing the head of the metacarpal bone to project prominently towards the palm of the hand; while the second or ungual phalangeal bone is flexed upon the first, and forms another angle in the thumb. The phalangeal bone is locked in its new position, and reduction may be proportionately difficult. This immediately arises either from the constriction of the neck of the bone between the lateral ligaments, as Hey believed; or between the two heads of the short flexor muscle, as affirmed by Malgaigne, Vidal (De Cassis), and others. Sir A. Cooper attributed the difficulty of reduction to the resistance offered by all the six muscles which are inserted into the two phalangeal bones of the thumb, the flexors more especially maintaining the displacement; or that the sesamoid bones oppose reduction; lastly, the difficulty may be due to the interposition of the anterior ligament, torn from its attachments and folded in between the joint, as alleged by Pailloux, Lawrie, and many others. Displace- ment of the long flexor tendon inwards or outwards, so as to impede reduction, has been found by Lisfranc, Deville, and Wadsworth. Treatment.—Reduction can sometimes be accomplished easily; by extension, inclining the finger towards the palm, with pressure on the displaced end of bone. Or, the thumb may require more powerful traction; and by first bending the dislocated phalanx backwards, so as to increase the displacement, the articular end of the phalanx will Fig. 369.t be dii'ected forwards towards the ! articular surface of the metacarpal bone, thus aiding the reduction. ' This preparatory movement was I suggested by Roser, and it has since been generally adopted with ad- vantage. Extension may then be i accomplished by means of a strong • tape fastened on the phalanx with a • clove-hitch knot (Pig. 369), care being taken to protect the skin by a piece of moist wash-leather wrapped : round the part. Or pulleys may be had recourse to, applied in like : manner. A more effectual mode of extension, occasionally, is by means ' of a large door-key; which, I beUeve, Mr. Listen originally suggested. * King's College Mus., 1344'. In this case, with dislocation of the first phalanx of tlie thumb forwards, there was also oblitiue fracture of the metacarpal bone (Joha Wood.) I After Listen.