ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 227 should be deeply enveloped. This padding need not be reapplied for some days; the gangrenous part being covered with lint soaked in a solution of permanganate of potash (Condy's fluid), a chlorinated, car- bolic, or other antiseptic lotion. Concentrated solutions of carbolic acid, e.g., 3 ii to lib of olive oil, are apt to induce symptoms of poison- ino-, indicated by olive-green urine. (Billroth.) A poultice of pow- dered charcoal answers the double purpose of an antiseptic and moist warm dressing. In senile gangrene, the line of demarcation having formed, and separation of the dead part slowly taking place, reparative closure of the blood-vessels will be promoted by a light poultice or epithem of moist spongiopiline, to encourage adhesive inflammation. When the soft textures are thus safely detached, the bone may be sawn through, and the otherwise natural amputation completed by this amount of surgical interference. Granulation and cicatrization supervene as in tbe bealing of a healthy ulcer, although perhaps more slowly than usual. Simple water dressing, or some gently stimulating lotion, will therefore generally prove sufficient in the way of topical treatment. Balsam of Peru, pure or diluted, with an equal part of yolk of fegg, is highly recommended as an application in these cases. Remembering the persistent cause of gangrene, namely, ossification of the arteries, exposure to cold must ever be avoided, and the circulation in the legs cherisbed by the patient wearing thick woollen socks, flannel drawers, and other suck warm clothing. (4.) Constitutional Treatment.—Prior to closure of tbe vessels, the constitutional disorder consequent on gangrene—the typkoidal fever— requires supporting measures; an easily assimilated diet, comprising proportionately more animal food, malt liquor, and alcoholic stimulants, will prove most beneficial. Of medicinal stimulants and tonics ; the sesquicarbonate of ammonia and chlorate of potash, with cinchona bark or cascarilla, form a combination whicb is, I think, more lauded in the books, than suggested by pathology or sanctioned by expei-ience. Opium is, generally, a remedy of great value, apparently by subduing the pain and nervous excitement; and by promoting the capillary circiilation, thus aiding the process of separation. It should be ad- ministered in small but repeated doses, to the amount of two to four grains in the twenty-four hours, and increased as the system is brought under its influence ; but opium is contra-indicated or must be discon- tinued, whenever it disturbs the digestive organs or occasions headache. The hypodermic injection of morphia may, however, not be obnoxious. Inflammatory fever, in some degree, accompanies occlusion of the vessels during the separation of the gangrenous part; opium may, therefore, still be continued to suppress nervous excitement and the heart's action, while it perhaps sustains adhesive inflammation. Tbe stimulant and tonic plan of treatment should be moderated during this period, and resumed during convalescence.