LIGATURE OP THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 535 Certain nerves grouped around the axillary artery, in its course beyond the small pectoral muscle, still remain in immediate relation ■with the brachial, and are thus disposed of. The median nerve, lying to the outer side as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle, then descends over, or under, the artery, to gain its inner side about two inches above the elbow ; and in the bend of the joint, it is placed on the inner side, about half an inch apart, as the vessel incUnes out- wards to the neck of the radius. This nerve is, otherwise, in contact with the artery throughout its course. The ulnar nerve continues close to the inner side of the brachial artery as low as the insertion of the coraco-brachialis; but there inclining inwards, it passes through the inner intermuscular septum, and, imbedded in the triceps musclcj reaches the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle, thus, losing all relation to the artery. The internal cutaneous is also to the inner side at first, it then lies over and on the artery as far as about the middle of the arm; there, perforating the deep fascia, it loses this intimate relation; its anterior branch, with the basilic vein^ still, however, overlaying the artery. The musculo-spiral nerve remains posterior for about two inches only; then passing backwards and out- wards between the inner and outer heads of the triceps, it winds round the humerus and ceases to have any relation to the artery. Three named biranches are given off from the inner side of the- brachial: the superior profunda, arising near the lower border of the teres major tendon, winds backwards and accompanies the musculo- spiral nerve ; the inferior profunda passes off opposite the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, with the ulnar nerve to the interval between the olecranon and inner condyle ; and the anastomotic, which arises an inch or two above the elbow, has the same destination. Operation.—The brachial artery may be ligatured in either part of its course. In the first portion, or that which corresponds to the coraco- brachialis muscle, the artery is reached as in the thix-d portion of the axillary, and the brachial being less encompassed with nerves, it is more accessible. An incision along the border of the muscle (see Pig. 157), and dividing the skin and fascia, leads down to the vessel. The deep or aponeurotic fascia is then divided, and on drawing the median nerve to the outer side^ the artery, with its vense comites, is exposed, with the internal cutaneous nerve to the inner side or in front of the vessel. Separating this nerve, the aneurism-needle may be passed round the artery from either side most convenient to the ope- rator, avoiding, perhaps, the ven« comites. But I have frequently mcluded one or both such veins in ligaturing a second-sized artery, and without any evil consequence. The second portion of the brachial— that in relation to the biceps— is ligatured in a similar manner. An incision, from two to three inches, long, is made on the iuner border of this muscle (Fig. 157), avoiding the basilic vein ; having reached the artery, the median nerve, crossing it obliquely or at the inner side, may be drawn to that side, with the vein. The artery, with its venae comites, will thus be exposed, and the needle readily passed. The third portion of the brachial—that in the bend of the elbow— requires ligature only for wound of the artery in this situation. The external wound will guide to the aperture in, or the division of, the