INFLAMMATION. 67 variably present with, inflammation, they are also present in other conditions affecting the blood. Coagulation exhibits the buffy coat notably in pregnancy, and other conditions attended with an excess of fibrin in the blood; and both the buffed and cupped appearance niay proceed from slow coagulation, without any change in the constitution of the blood itself, as when this fluid is drawn quickly, in a full stream, and received into a narrow deep vessel. Conversely, exposure, as by a trickling stream, into a shallow vessel, hastens coagulation, and thus prevents these results. (&.) Besides these deviations in the process and product of healthy coao-ulation, inflammatory blood is found to have undergone certain alterations of chemical composition. Its constituents, no less than their properties and endowments, are perverted. Becquerel and Rodier enu- merate the following alterations in the blood of acute phlegmasise:— 1. An increased proportion of fibrin. 2. A decrease of globules. 3. A decrease of albumen of the serum. 4. An increase of fatty matters. 5. A decrease of soda and soluble alkaline salts. In point of practical interest, the importance of all these chemical changes appears to concentrate in. the influence they exercise on the separation of the fibrin, and its coagulation in a free state. Alkaline salts in excess are well known to retard coagulation, and a decrease of the soda and soluble alkaline salts will have the opposite effect. Less time than usual is then allowed for the blood-discs to subside, and so far the formation of the buffy coat is not promoted. An increased proportion of fatty matter will probably favour the early separation of pure fibrin, by inducing it to rise with such matter to the surface of the blood drawn, and leave the red discs below. A decrease of the albumen of the serum will have a similar effect, by directly diminishing the specific gravity of this fluid, so that the blood-discs sink more readily. The mean specific gravity of the serum in the phlegmasise generally, is estimated by Becquerel and Rodier at 1027'0 ; and although, according to ISTasse, that is about the average in health, yet the specific gravity of serum in inflammations frequently declines below the mean of 1027. And this is due to the proportion of albumen being reduced below the healthy average of 80 parts in 1000, to 73"35, and even as low as to 64'84. It was formerly stated by Gendrin that the albumen rose to about twice its proportion above the standard of health. The decrease noted is in a direct ratio to the increased proportion of fibrin. So also the blood-discs decrease in quantity proportionately to the increase of fibrin (Simon), and this reduction will facilitate their complete separation—the more so, since, by undue aggregation of the discs, their combined specific gravity preponderates even more than they do individually. Lastly, the increased proportion of fibrin above the average of two to two and a half parts in 1000 of blood, contrasting as it does with the reduced proportion of blood-discs, is the culminating point in favour of a clot being formed of pure fibrin; and this increase, and corresponding formation of the buffy coat, was noticed by Andral and