704 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., G. 250. Fig. 323 * Enchondroma.—In connection witli bone, encliondroma or cartilat^i nons tumour has already been considered, as being the most promine°nt part ot the general pathology of this species of Morbid Growth (Ch. II.) ; for it occurs principally in con- nection with the osseous system. Enchon- droma—or, occasionally, some other kind of growth—may be contained in the centre of a bone, and surrounded by an osseous shell or bony cyst; it is then sometimes designated "bullous exostosis," especially by French Surgical authors. Treatment.—Excision or amputation will be appropriate, according to the size and relations of the tumour. Osteo-Sabcoma.—The formation of a fibrous tumour in connection with bone is far more rare than the cartilaginous tumour. It is also illustrated by epulis and fibrous nasal polypus; both of which, however, are fibrous out-groidhs. Periosteal sarcoma— having its origin in the periosteum—invades the osseous texture, as well as growing out- wards. The fibrous tissue, in the form of fasci- culi, may have a radiated arrangement from the periosteum outwards. (Fig. 323.) Externally, the tumour has a nodulated character, and its consistence may vary in different parts; being hard and fibrous, or soft and succulent. In the specimen, a portion of the morbid growth has formed also in the cancellous tissue of the femur, and. occupies the meduUary canal. The Signs of any such tumour much resemble those of enchon- droma, and their diagnosis is unimportant. The Treatment is excision or amputation. Cysts.—Two kinds of cysts have been found in bone; the serous and sanguineous. Their pathology for the most part merges in the general history of these cysts (p. 129). They are multilocular, the cavities often communicating; and they are met with in the jaws or in the long bones, their shafts or articular ends. They grow to a large size, that of a cocoa-nut or foetal head. Unilocular cysts are also described by Nelaton as containing solid matter, of a filarous or fibro-cartilaginous structure, occupying entirely the cavity of the cyst. These are found in the same situations as the last, but grow to a less size. Cysts in bone form mostly in adults. Signs.—They produce an expansion of the surrounding osseous texture, and at length being enclosed in a thin lamellar capsule of bone, yield a crackling sensation under pressure with the finger and a deeper or more obscure elasticity or semi-fluctuation. Perforation here and there taking place by progressive absorption of the lamellar capsule, the enclosed tumour becomes more clearly perceptible. The superimposed skin yields before the increasing tumour; but without discolouration or any participation in the disease, and there is little or no accompanying pain. The tumour is thus plainly non-malignant in its development.