318 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. briglat light, has the same effect. From the commencement of the disease, the temperature rises, and even as high as 105° or 106° P. The convulsive attacks are imroxysmal, with complete intermissions. A viscid mucus accumulating in the mouth occasions incessant adion of the lower jaw to extricate it. The pains now piercing the epigastric and pra3Cordial regions, more particularly, the general sensibility becoming more and more acute, and the convulsive paroxysms more frequent, desperate, and protracted, soon exhaust the patient's bodily power, while his mind is hurried on to furmis mania; and thus, when fighting for_ breath, or utterly worn out, the sufferer expires. The second or third day usually brings this happy release. It may be post- poned to the fifth or sixth day. Age makes some difference, for children endure not longer than twenty-four hours generally. Diagnosis.—I have italicized those symptoms which, contrasting with the phenomena of tetanus,, serve to distinguish hydrophobia. To these characteristics may be added two more — the early period of death from hydrophobia as compared with tetanus, and its longer pei-iod of latency. On this point, however, considerable extremes are recorded. Period of Latency.—In 131 cases, none of the patients became ill before the eleventh day after the bite, and only thi'ce before the eighteenth day. In 222 cases, the disease showed itself eleven times before the tenth day; twenty-one, between the tenth and twentieth day; twenty, from three to six weeks; eighty-nine, from seven weeks to seven months; eighty-nine, from seven months to twenty-seven months; one, after four years; one, after five and a half years. In Hamilton's table, it occurred in seventeen cases, between eighteen and thirty days; in sixty-three, between thirty and sixty days; in thii-teen, between three and six months; in seventeen, between six and twelve months ; in four, from ten to twenty months. In both these series the period of incubation extended to between the third and eighth week. The extreme periods, as determined by Dr. J. Hunter, were thirty-one days and eighteen months. The most extensive and authentic observations accord about forty days as the mean period of latency in the human subject. Here, then, is a season during which i^reventive measures can be employed with the prospect of success. Treatment.—Prompt removal of the hydrophobic virus by the cup- j)ing-glass, and free excision of the bitten part, constitute the most effectual preventative. In a part so situated that excision is im- practicable, free cauterization may be resorted to, either by the actual cautery, or with strong nitric acid, jDotassa fusa, or nitrate of silver. It is impossible to say how late, in the period of incubation, these means would prove successful; for, if not employed in any given instance, some constitutional peculiarity might itself avert the super- vention of hydrophobia. There is just this poor chance of safety. But, considering the very large proportion of cases in which the disease does inevitably arise, no time should be lost. Excision, therefore, should be practised at the earliest opportunity, and not postponed, however long it may have been neglected; provided, of course, that in either case there be sufficient reason for behoving or suspecting that the bite was inflicted by a rabid animal. Before, then, resorting to a measure which entails pennanent muti- lation, more or less, the state of the aniimVs health in question should