GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 252 The conversion of indurated chancre into the soft chancroid ulcer, would seem to be an admitted possibility, according to the view advocated by M. Clerc, and other observers; that the soft sore is a derivative from hard chancre, as resulting from the transmission of the syphilitic virus through the system of a person who had already undergone syphilitic infection. This relation of chancroid to chancre would be analogous to that of the varioloid eruption to variola, or of the false to the true vaccine pustule. Diseased Conditions of Chancre, and Chancroid Ulcer.—Either oi these specific ulcers may assume the characters of some ordinary form of ulcer, under circumstances referable to the state of the general health, and that of the digestive organs in particular. Thus, the ulcer may become irritable, or painful and disposed to bleed; if inflamed, the usual appearances of this kind of ulcer are presented. Phagedoenic chancre appears as an irregular sore, with sharp, undermined edges, and a worm-eaten surface, covered with a white or black slough; serpiginous phagedena is a variety distinguished by the creeping character of the ulceration, its unlimited extent and duration ; and sloughing or gangrenous phagedaenic chancre has the mixed characters which its name implies. The three last conditions of ulceration are very destructive, especially the latter variety. When alfecting the prepuce, this part becomes greatly swollen, brawny, and dusky red; but the phimosis or contracted state of the preputial orifice, conceals the ravages beneath ; a black patch appears, and sloughs, disclosing the glans, or if the foreskin be slit up with a bistoury, the phagedEenic ulcer is discovered, and perhaps only a remnant glans. The existence of chancre, as an ulcer having any distinctive characters, has been altogether denied by many observers of known accuracy and large experience. First: Rose (1817), whose experience in the hospital of the Coldstream Guards ranged over a large number of cases, admitted that although there are many symptoms common to chancres, they are not entirely peculiar to them. Hennen (1829) acknowledged with regret that there are "not any invariable character- istic symptoms by which to discriminate the real nature of the primary sore;" and, having witnessed many instances of self-deception, in attempting to diagnose a sore for the cure of which mercury is indis- pensable, from one of a different nature, he repudiated the pretensions of those who assume to themselves the possession of a tactus eruditus by which they can distinguish this kind of chancre. Recurring to the diagnosis of chancre, rather than the kind, Mr. Bacot's experience (1829) led him to affirm, that chancre may present every variety of appearance to which a breach of surface is subject; and Colles (1837) stated, "as the result of long, attentive, and anxious observation," that primary venereal ulcers present an almost endless variety of character. To this effect also were the observations of Wallace (1838) ; for, says he, neither the mode of origin, nor the form, nor the colour, nor the size, nor the number of the ulcers of primary syphilis, are pathog- nomonic. Acton (1851) avowed it was incontrovertible, that other sores, not of a specific nature, may assume all the aspect of real chancres ; and Labatt (1868), considering the great variety of appear- ances presented by primary ulcers, experienced the difiiculty of classi- fying them, and confessed that hitherto every such attempt had ended only in disappointment.