116 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. introduced, tlie Wades are opened, the muscular fibres separated, and free exit is safely given to the pus. Sometimes, the nature of a swelling or tumour may be doubtful; whether it be solid or fluid, and if the latter, whether an extravasation of blood, or an inflammatory effusion or pus. To clear up the diag- nosis, before making an opening with a bistoury to discharge any such fluid matter, it may be advisable to introduce a grooved needle. A drop of fluid wells up along the groove, or any solid organized material lodged in the groove is abstracted by withdrawing the needle ; and either product can then be examined by the naked eye or under the microscope. I often have recourse to this procedure. The admission of air is generally of serious consequence, by in- ducing purulent decomposition and irritative fever or septicaemia, or prolonged suppurative discharge and hectic exhaustion. Hence, some precaution must be observed in opening any large and chronic abscess. A valvular aperture—as originally proposed by Abernethy—is the best safeguard. Having drawn the skin well to one side, a bistoury is introduced perpendicularly, as usual, but ere the matter has en- tirely ceased to flow, the integument is allowed to regain its former position; thus obliquely overlaying the aperture in the cyst. The external opening no longer directly communicating with the internal, any matter will continue to drain away without the ingress of air. Moreover, only so much pus escapes as may be discharged by the collapse of the walls of the abscess. It will, however, generally be better to close the opening, by sliding over it a small pad of lint, and then moderately compressing the whole cavity of the abscess, by means of a larger pad and bandage, to restrain the re-accumulation of matter. When the cavity has partly refilled, the same operation is repeated, and as often as may be necessary for the cyst to contract securely and finally close. But when a large chronic abscess occasions no incon- venience, it is a better rule not to open it, rather than endanger the patient's life. Whether an abscess be acute or chronic, small or large, any thumb- ing or squeezing would be an unpardonable injury to the delicately organized and highly vascular lining membi'ane, which, previously pus-forming, should now become lymph-producing for reparation. On one occasion, having opened a large chronic abscess, situate over the gluteal region, I took the liberty of introducing my finger; deeming it advisable to do so, for the double purpose of turning out the uncom- monly thick flaky matter, and of ascertaining whether the cyst com- municated with dead bone ; the case, a rare one, having simulated either disease of the hip-joint or of the sacro-iliac articulation. The subsequent escape of matter will be insured by introducing a strip of lint through the incision, and into the cavity of the abscess, in order to prevent adhesion of the lips of the aperture, and to promote contraction and healing by granulation from the bottom of the cavity. This safeguard strip of hnt is readily passed in with an ordinary probe or director, or with the flat handle of the scalpel. The strip is with- drawn in the course of a day or two, and a fresh piece not replaced, if a pus-discharging aperture be fairly established. If necessary, the discharge may be facilitated by the employment of a " drainage-tube," as recommended by M. Chassaignac. It is a small india-rubber tube with lateral holes; and this pipe may be passed, through a canula,