INTRA-OAPSULAR FRACTURE OF THE NECK OF THE FEMUR. 649 tlience favouring tte occurrence of fracture in tliis portion of the bone. Its cancellous and compact texture having undergone fatty- degeneration, or disintegration and ai/ropJiy (Fig. 249), the neck Fia. 249.* Pig. 250.t Fig. 251.t Pig. 252. § Pig. 253. gradually yields to the weight of the body; the inferior border of the neck, originally the longest, thus becomes somewhat shortened, and the whole neck drops to nearly a right-angle with the shaft, (Fig. 250.) This horizontal direction, in particular, renders the neck less able to sustain the shock of any force transmitted through the femur, and which throws the weight of the trunk suddenly on this portion of the bone. It snaps instantly and easily—perhaps, almost imperceptibly. Besides the predis- position of advancing life, intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur is said to be more frequent in women than in men. The circum- stances of age, and the slight indirect violence, associated with the production of intra - capsular fracture, should be considered, with the signs already mentioned, in aid of the diagnosis. TJnwn by ligament ensues, as the only mode of reparation in most cases (Fig. 251), or when the upper fragment is impacted. (Fig, 252.) Or no union may take place, the portion of the neck and head, m the acetabulum, undergo absorption to some extent, while the trochanteric fragment becomes flattened and expanded, apparently as the result of constant pressure and friction; or a false ball-and- socket joint forms between the ends of the two fragments. Bony union, at one time and for many years thought never to take place, does assuredly result in some rare cases (Fig. 253); but only, it would seem, when the capsular ligament remains entire, or the fragments are impacted, whereby a due supply of blood can be speedily established The use of the limb is not restored under three or four months. * St. Bart. Hosp. Mus., 1, 206. t Ibid. C. 78. J Ibid. 3, 22, § Ibid. 3,110. II Ibid. 3, 21. «