834 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. D EFOKMITIES OF Leq.—(1.) Knoclc-knee or In-knee—Genu Valgum.— This deformity is an inward yielding of tlie knee-joint, the result of weakness of the ligaments and mtiscles which support the joint in that direction. It happens not unfrequently, and usually both knees are affected; giving the person a singularly ungraceful attitude when standing, and in walking the knees knock and roll over each other with a shuffling gait. The causes of knock-knee are apparently mechanical; some occasion of undue strain on the knee. It mostly arises from trying to make a child walk too early, or it may occur in tall, rapidly growing lads from the age of twelve to eighteen ; in either case the knees yielding under the weight of the body. Habitual over-walking exercise or fatigue in standing has the same result. Hence certain occupations are causative ; and any habit of resting on one leg, or defect in the opposite limb, whereby an increased strain is thrown upon the sound limb, mav induce this deformity. But a rachitic tendency, or other constitutiono J condition of impaired nutrition, can often be traced as the predisposinc,' cause. Treatment.—Removal of the cause in operation will sometimes prove sufficient. Thus, if the attempt to make a child walk at ton early a period be discontinued, an incipient knock-knee may dis- appear. Mechanical support is the only sure means of preventing further deformity, and of restoring the limb to a proper shape, by allowing the ligamentous structures to gain suf- FiG. 446. cient strength. The patient must be placed in " irons." An iron stem, on the outside of the limb, extending from the trochanter to the outer ankle, is fixed by a pelvic band above, and into the boot below. A hinge in this rod at the knee allows of motion; while, by means of a leathern pad furnished with straps, applied on the inner side, the joint is secured to the stem above and below the hinge, and di'awn outwards by tightening the straps. (Fig. 446.) The knee must thus be fixed during a period varying fi'om three to six months; then freedom of motion may be allowed for a part of each day during a similar period ; and, lastly, perfect freedom a few months before the support is discontinued. The total average duration of treatment, in advanced childhood and bad cases, will probably extend to two years. Division of the external lateral ligaments, or of the biceps tendon, has been practised in obstinate cases ; but this, or any cutting operation, is not now considered necessary. Constitutional ti'eatment for the im- provement of nutrition will aid the mechanical cure. (2.) Bowed, or Bandied Legs—Genu Vanim—present the opposite state of deformity of the Knees. (Fig. 447.) This deformity arises from relaxation of the external lateral ligament, and not, probably, from any contraction of the biceps fcnioris muscle. The treatment will