SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 372 the jets are regulated by the size of the artery, or of the aperture in it, by its proximity to the heart, and by the heart's action; also by the presence or absence of certain conditions which retard or favour tho free flow of blood through the vessel. Thus, pressure on the proximal portion of artery retards, while a dependent position favours, th(! ha;morrhage. The blood coming from the didal portion of vessel is dark, and runs in a trickling stream, excepting from certain arteries, the palmar and plantar arches, which when wounded, jet arterial blood from either extremity of the vessel. Causes cmd Effects of Wounds of Arteries.—An artery may be incised or cut with a sharp instrument, punctured with a pointed one, contused or lacerated by a blunt one, or wounded by force of a bruising or wrenching kind. The operation of any such lesion locallij, is to produce aneurism, if the blood be imprisoned in the textures; constituting traumatic aneurism —diffused, or eventually circumscribed. Its formation will be specially described in connection with aneurism. Constitutionally regarded, whether arterial haemorrhage takes place externally, or internally, as into one of the great cavities of the body, its effects are manifested by syncope or fainting, more or less complete. And this may occur either by failure of the heart's action—cardiac syncope, and thence of the circulation, or as loss of consciousness—cerebral syncope; or both modes of process may be produced. The symptoms of syncope are further evinced by a feeble or imperceptible pulse, with palHdity and cold-clamminess of the surface, and lividity of the fingers, toes, lips, and eyes; in this condition, after a few oppressive sighs or gasps, with convulsive twitchings of the limbs, death may take place im- mediately. Or, if the hasmorrhage be less considerable and sudden, the symptoms of syncope are less marked; the patient turns pale and chilly, faint and sick, but soon becomes restless, and tormented with a raging thirst. These constitutional effects and the probability of death resulting, are proportionate to the quantity of blood lost; not neces- sarily by its escape from the body, but even when lost to the body as blood in circulation. Providentially, however, the imminent peril of continued hEemori-hage is lessened by cardiac syncope; suspension of the circulation tends to arrest the escape of blood from the artery, and by thus favouring the formation of an occluding clot, it tends also to arrest the hcemorrhage. Reaction after loss of blood signifies the return of the heart's action and the circulation. This state is denoted by symptoms of vascular and nervous excitement, which, after considerable loss of blood, constitute hcemorrhagic fever. The pulse becomes rapid, but feeble or jerking, and irregular, loose or thready also in proportion to the anaemic condition of the blood-vessels. With returning warmth of surface, the face flushes, and the eyes acquire a lustrous brilliancy, while a restless excitement supervenes, bordering on delirium, and which perhaps terminates in death by coma and convulsions. Or the reaction may be intermittent; pallidity and syncope recurring, followed by some return of the circulation. Age much affects the issue. In youth, the rallying power is greater, though the tolerance of ha<mor- rhage is less, the loss of a small quantity of blood, as from a leech-bite, sometimes proving fatal to an infant; in advanced life, reaction is less vigorous, and as the reproduction of blood is also less active, recovery