SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 812 ran behind the tendon of the rectus muscle to the outer side of the thigh. (See also "Path. Trans.," 1851-52, p. 427.) Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in the prompt and efficient treatment of the diseases leading to anchylosis; while the precaution should also be taken of securing the limb in such position as shall be most useful in the event of this result. Bemedial treatment consists in restoring, if possible, the mobility of the joint, and correcting any deformity of the limb. Or the latter may be the main object in view. Fibrous anchylosis—admitting of some motion in the joint—com- monly yields to passive motion, from time to time; thereby gradually regaining the use of the joint. Firmer union will probably have to be overcome by extension; either gradually applied by means of some mechanical apparatus, or by forcible manipulation, in the way of flexion and extension, under the influence of chloroform. The former method may have to be continued for a period of from one to three months, according to the resistance of the anchylosis, and the size of the joint, as in the case of the knee. In the latter method of extension, the joint yields with a creaking cleavage and successive snaps, which are both heard and felt. The rectification of deformity, thus gained, must be secured by the application of a properly adjusted retentive instrument or splint; passive motion also being practised occasionally. Extension- treatment will generally prove sufficient, but any resisting tendons may be divided subcutaneously, tenotomy completing the cure. In such case, the extending splint should be so adapted that, according to the rule respecting the after-treatment of tenotomy, the Limb shall remain at the same angle in which it was prior to division of the tendons, until the punctures have healed,—about the fourth day; when extension may be commenced. The knee, hip, or elbow joints, for example, can thus be restored to a fair degree of mobility, and the limb brought to a good position. A too sudden or instantaneous, as well as forcible, flexion and extension of a fibrous anchylosis, is liable to be attended with servere injury, either by fracture of the articular ends of bone, dislocation, or rupture of the adjoining blood- vessels and nerves ; or it may be followed by inflammation, suppuration, gangrene, or pyeemia. When these mechanical or manipulative and perhaps operative procedures have failed, if then the fibrous anchylosis be incompatible with a good use of the limb, as in the case of such anchylosis of the knee-joint, excision of the joint may be advantageously resoj'ted to; and the more so, in proportion to mal-position of the limb. Osseous anchylosis cannot be overcome by any justifiable force of extension. But the propriety of operative interference will depend on the comparative inutility of the limb; whether owing to the kind of anchylosis, as in regard to the elbow-joint, or mal-position of the limb, as may be the case in the knee-joint. Subcutaneous section or drilling of the anchjlosis, as an operation appropriate for osseous anchylosis of the knee, was originally proposed by Brainard, and performed successfully by Pancoast, Langenbeck, and Gross, and in this country by Mr. Stromeyer L. Little. This procedure consists simply in making a small puncture or incision opposite the junction of the articular cartilages, and the introduction of a narrow sharp- cutting gouge, or a gouge-drill, which is driven between the ends of bone in different directions, so as to weaken their connection.