151 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. childhood than in after years. Anenrism by anastomosis occurs mostly in children under fifteen, seldom in adults; and in an old person, Lisfranc knew of no instance of this form of vascular tumour. Goiirse.—The progress of growth is not generally steady, but by fits and starts; sometimes rapid, sometimes slow-growing. Very commonly, observes Paget, their increase is only proportionate to that of the rest of the body; and when full growth is attained, they also cease to o-row. Not rarely they are stationary, or shrink, even wbile the rest of the body is growing; and this is especially likely to happen with those that are white and scar-like where the skin is involved. The same autbor also notices certain structural alterations to wbicb the vascular tumour is subject, by degeneration or by disease. These morbid conditions disguise the original character of tbe tumour, and may now mislead the diagnosis. Thus, a vascular tumour may become converted " into a soft, but tougb and dry yellow-ochre or brown substance, like that of a supra-renal capsule." Scar-like patches is another transformation, affecting the substance, or surface of the tumour, and accompanied witb closure of the vessels in that portion. Acute inflammation may consolidate and cure; or, leading to ulceration, form bleeding sores, ill-disposed to heal. Either blood-clots, or phlebo- liths, sometimes partially consolidate; or cysts, serous or sanguineous, give a more elastic feel to the mass. More rarely, this kind of growth forms in another growth, and usurping its structure, converts part or the whole of such growth into a vascular tumour, and acquires its character. Thus, a cavernous enlargement of veins was noticed, as an occasional formation, in fatty and in fibrous tumours; while aneurism by anastomosis is often found in the substance of encephaloid cancer. Lastly, " it is probable also that one form of vascular tumour may be converted into another: a capillary one becoming either arterial or venous, by the excessive growth of one or other set of vessels ; or an arterial one, by opposite changes, becoming either capillary or venous." Treatment.—Vascular or Erectile tumours admit of treatment in accordance with each of the three general indications pertaining to morbid growths. (1.) Absorption, by compression, steadily maintained by means of the air-cushion and spring. Compression is most practicable and eifectual when the tumour rests on bone, thus supplying counter-pressure. ■ (2.) Obliteration, by cauterization, or injections, for the purpose of producing sloughing or consolidation of the tumour. Either plan of treatment is most appropriate for small vascular tumours, as certain UEEvi. In parts where the deformity occasioned by sloughing and cicatrization are unimportant considerations, cauterization, with the strong nitric acid freely applied to the integument covering the tumour, is perhaps warrantable. In parts otherwise circumstanced, as the face, the injection of some stimulant into the tumour is preferable, with the view of exciting inflammation short of sloughing, and thence consolida- tion of the tumour. Perchloride of iron may thus prove remedial, introduced drop by drop at different points, by means of a glass syringe, having a screw piston and a fine penetrating nozzle. Setons of silk, passed through various parts of the tumour, and allowed to remain in for some days, will, perhaps, more slowly produce the same result. I have not had much experience in either of these, or similar modes