794 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. posing constitutional condition ; especially rheumatism, scrofula, con- stitutional syphilis, or formerly, by the poisonous administration of mercury. Several joints may then be affected simultaneously. In- flammation of the synovial membranes also ensues, occasionally, from gonorrhoaa or purulent ophthalmia. Such synovitis has been incor- rectly named " gonorrhoeal rheumatism," although not apparently depending on a rheumatic condition. Gonorrhoeal synovitis would bo a more correct designation. Arising after gonorrhoea of a few weeks' duration, from sudden arrest of the discharge, or after exposure to cold, it affects one or more joints—commonly the knee, and often both knees. Serum rather than lympb is effused into the joint, and the disease terminates without disorganization in a few weeks. Or it proceeds, sometimes, to ulceration of the cartilages, and continues for months or a year or two. In one such case, under my care, the knee- joint became firmly anchylosed. Pyaemia induces a low inflammation of the joints, the special character of which is its abundant sero-purulent effusion, and conse- quent swelling; unattended by pain, heat, and redness, the ordinary symptoms of inflammation. Ulceration of the cartilages ensues if the patient lives long enough. Terminations.—(1.) Resolution generally occurs; the pain, swelling, and other symptoms subsiding, and the joint regaining apparently a healthy condition. (2.) Adhesion, or complete fibrous anchylosis, sometimes results; the fluid or serous portion of the effusion being absorbed, the surfaces of the synovial membrane come together and are partially united by fibrous adhesions; thus leaving the joint much stiffened, in the state of fibrous anchylosis. (3.) Fluid remaining in the synovial capsule ; the swelling becomes persistent, with laxity and weakness of the joint; constituting chronic synovitis. An extreme degree of this condition has been named hydrarthrosis or hydrops articuli —dropsy of the joint. Some lingering vascularity and redness, with thickening of the synovial membrane, remains. The knee-joint is most commonly affected ; rarely the hip, shoulder, or elbow. (4.) Suppura- tion and abscess having occurred, the joint is distended with thick, opaque, yellow pus; the synovial membrane, very red and pulpy, is ulcerated in parts, and overspread with fibrinous purulent flakes; the articular cartilages undergo ulcerative disintegration into a whitish pulp, here and there, or the cartilage readily peels off; and the subjacent bone is very vascular, and liable to become carious—thus ending in total disorganization of the joint; or anchylosis supervenes —sometimes fibrous and stiffly movable, sometimes bony and fixed. The head of the femur and acetabulum, for example, both denuded of cartilage, may be found in a state of anchylosis—fibrous, or even osseous. Or, an articular abscess opens, attended with a temporary relief of the symptoms; but a wasting discharge ensues, and the inflammatory fever is exchanged for hectic, under which the patient would ultimately sink from exhaustion, unless the disorganized joint has been removed in time. Periarticidar abscesses may form; either in the synovial bursas adjacent to the joint, or in the subcu- taneous cellular tissue, then having more the character of a diffuse suppuration. Thus, when the knee-joint is affected with acute puru- lent synovitis, the bursa under the ligamentum patella—or tendon of the quadriceps muscle—or the bursa in the popliteal space, may