474 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the time of manipulation. In tbe first case, the aneurism never ceased to pulsate, and, after eight months, terminated fatally by rupture of the lower and back part of the sac. The axillary artery was found to be firmly plugged with fibrine. In the second case also, the aneurism continued, but the pulse ceased at the wrist. At the end of two years, and after hard work as a sailor, the aneurism itself had disappeared. In both cases, giddiness and faintness were immediately produced by the manipulation; and in the second case, these symptoms were succeeded by hemiplegic paralysis of the left side, from which, however, the patient recovered in two months. So far the results of ti'eafcment by manipulation were not very en- couraging. More disastrous cases occurred in the hands of Esmarch and Teale, of Leeds. Both were carotid aneurisms. On the other hand, an aneurism of the right subclavian artery, thus treated by Mr. R. Little, proved quite successful, although not without the disadvan- tage of temporary paralysis of the arm. Two successful cases in aneurism of the lower extremity, one of the femoral artery, treated by Dr. G-. E. Blackman, of Cincinnati, and the other of the popliteal artery, by Mr. Teale, are, I believe, the only additional results, at pre- sent, in favour of this method of treatment. (2.) Gomprefision, or Ligature, of the distal portion of an aneurismal artery represents other methods of imitating the second mode of natural cure ; although the obstruction, as thus eif ected, is not by the impaction of a piece of clot in that portion of the vessel. The operation by liga- ture of the distal portion is principally associated with the names of Brasdor and Wardrop. (See Fig. 116, right figure.) Whether the arterial current be obstructed by ligature, or simply by compression of the artery, at that part of its course, in either case the principle is to retard the stream of blood throtigli the aneurism, and thus induce the deposition of laminated fibrine with consolidation of the sac. For this purpose, it is necessary that there shall be no arterial branch between the aneurismal sac and the ligature, which would lessen the obstruction offered to the current of blood on the distal side of the sac. Carotid aneurism alone fulfils this requisite condition for the success of distal ligature or compression. The immediate effect of distal obstruction is to turn the full force of the arterial current into the sac; which being distended, may at once yield and burst with fatal hsamorrhage. Should this issue not occur, the collateral branches of artery from the main trunk above the aneurism, will probably have time to enlarge sufficiently to carry on the circulation for tlie maintenance of the limb; a small feeding stream of blood passing down also to the sac, which becomes solidified and obliterated by the process of natural cure. But this happy issue is very precarious and doubtful. According to the results of 27 cases collected by Mr. Erichsen, 20 terminated fatally soon after the opera- tion, and in the other 7 cases, although the patients survived the effects of ligature, the disease remained uncured.^ iv. Certain Operatioe procedures, of a ^j/iys/caZ or chemical cha- racter, correspond to, if they do not imitate, the fifth mode of natural cure; that by inflammation of the sac, and its consequences. Galvano- pnncture has been practised for the purpose of inducing coagulation of the blood, en masse, within the sac. Two needles, insulated by gutta percha coating, and connected with the wires of a galvanic battery, are