66 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Nasse), and the net thus wrought has also undue power of contracting (W. Jones), whereby the serum is more eiTectuallj expressed from its meshes. This fabric, therefore—the component particles of which have individually greater specific gravity than the serum—has now even greater weight, bulk for bulk, and being formed earlier than usual, subsides in the serum before the fibrin has fairly solidified, or perhaps before this more essential element of the clot has begun to coagulate. John Hunter seems to have anticipated this view of buffy blood, and Schroeder Van der Kolk, with other observers, has corroborated it. Combining all these observations—formation of the buffy coat seems to imply an increased separation and contraction of fibrin in a free state, rather than its increased power of separation and contrac- tion, and that the blood-discs are the initiative and active element in the process of buff-forming coagulation. Slow coagulation of the fibrin will, however, favour this result, by allowing more time for the gregarious blood-discs to fl.ock together and exercise their function as a contracting mesh. If, therefore, the blood be artificially preserved in a fluid state, by adding serum to above its normal proportion, thereby delaying coagulation, the red discs aggre- gate and subside, and the buffy coat is thus presented. Probably both the causes I have mentioned concur to produce this result, and that as they prevail more or less during the act of coagulation, so is the buffy coat of pure fibrin more or less completely established. The earliest intimation that blood is about to undergo this kind of coagulation, is the appearance of a violet tint, not unlike the bloom of black Hamburg grapes, on the surface of the exposed blood. This appearance was, I conceive, noticed by Hunter, and regarded by him as due to the red particles shining through a thin layer of buff-coloured lymph, just as blood in the veins gives a similar tint when viewed through the skin. The tint will therefore vary as the layer of fibrin becomes thicker. Coagulation proceeding, if the mesh of red particles separate and subside from the fibrin, but yet slowly and incompletely, and if the free fibrin but imperfectly solidifies and contracts, then a loose sizy clot is produced, resembling a solution of isinglass, attached to the sides of the vessel, and scarcely trembling when shaken. If, again, the separation and contraction of pure fibrin be more complete, a flat, yellow buff-coloured cake is produced, swimming in serum; but the under portion of this clot is red as usual by admixture of the red discs. If, again, the separation and contraction of fibrin be still more complete, the fully formed, solid, and buff-coloured clot is presented, withdrawn from the sides of the vessel, and probably concave or cupped on its upper surface; the lower portion of this clot ha-sdng formed more slowly, has contracted more strongly, and drawn dovrn the central part of its upper aspect. The blood, or rather the clot, is buffed and cupped. Even in this case the red particles and fibrin do not completely separate. In thirty samples of buffed blood, care- fully inspected by Dr. Richardson,* he never failed to find red discs iu the lower portion of the clot, and in many instances this red lower portion had the consistence of ordinary coagulum. The diagnostic value of these appearances is not absolute. In- * " The Cause of the Coagulation of the Blood," p. 335.