DISEASES OF THE BLOOD. CHAPTER Y. SCROFULA. By the term Blood-disease, I mean a disease in which some alteration of the blood is the primary affection, as from a poisoned woand ; or is the central condition, although the blood-forming organs, and all the textures, in the processes of assimilation, primary and secondary, and thus the whole body may be engaged in the disease. The latter will be considered first, as representing blood-diseases of a constitutional character, essentially. Their aflBnities and differences are of great practical importance. Scrofula should be distinguished from Tuberculosis ; for these diseases do not appear to be identical, as some pathologists have main- tained, and even still allege. I endorse the view held by Sir James Paget, that this is their relation—" the scrofulous constitution implies a peculiar liability to the tuberculous diseases, and that they often co-exist. But their differences are evident, in that many instances of scrofula (in the ordinary meaning of the word) exist with intense and long-continued disease, but without tuberculous deposit; that as many instances of tuberculous disease may be found without any of the non- tuberculous affections of scrofula; that, as Mr. Simon has proved, while diseases of ' defective power ' may be experimentally produced in animals by insufficient nutriment and other debilitating influences, tuberculous diseases are hardly artificially producible; and that nearly all other diseases may co-exist with the scrofulous, but some are nearly incompatible with the tuberculous." General Symptoms.—Scrofula exhibits itself locally by " mal-nutri- tion and chronic inflammation." This inflammation is scarcely ex- pressed by pain or heat, or redness, but rather by swelling, more or less considerable and doughy, slowly enlarging, and tending to suppu- ration ; yet scrofulous suppuration is unwillLng, so to speak, and the pus a mixture of curd and serum. Should a scrofulous abscess point, the skin thins, but gradually, and assumes a purplish tint; an irregular rent follows after some time, and the flaky matter rolls out. Perhaps this aperture gets blocked up and imperfectly closed ; the matter re- accumulating, again to be discharged, and so on from time to time. Or the aperture may remain free, with puffy everted edges, of a purplish colour, and the discharge continue—now thick, now thin. The scrofulov^s ulcer, which eventually results, is equally indolent. It persists, with a thin, livid, undermined margin, large, pale, flabby