499 ANEURISM or SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. death occurring more frequently in earlier life. According to Sir W. Gull's table, in 20 cases of persons under thirty-five years of age, 16, or 80 per cent., died from rupture of the sac ; while in 37 cases above thirty-five years, 14, or 38 per cent, only, terminated fatally in this way. After death, much of the pathology of these aneurisms is made known by internal examination which could not be discovered during life, clinical]y, and which, therefore, cannot be applied in diagnosis. Generally, the aneurism is found to be a dilatation of the whole cir- cumference of the artery, rather than a truly sacculated portion. Coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine may have pro- ceeded to the almost spontaneous cure of the aneurism. Usually not larger in size than a pea or Barcelona nut, the aneurism is sometimes much larger, having attained the size of a walnut or hen's egg. Rupture may have occurred in quite the smaller-sized aneurism. A single aneurism only is found, rarely more. Thus, in one case, both carotids were dilated into bulbs occupying the hollow on each , side of the sella Turcica, and which were filled with laminated coagulum. The preparation is in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. Treatment.—Digital pressure on the common carotid artery may be sufficient to overcome the symptoms wherever intra-cranial aneurism is situated; and it has also proved successful in intra-orbital aneurism, under the care of Gioppi and Vanzetti. When this method of treat- ment has failed, ligature of the common carotid is the only known resource. It was signally successful in the case of a woman aged fifty-five, under Mr. Coe, of Bristol. After ligature of the left carotid, the cranial bruit ceased, a gentle continuous murmur followed, due apparently to the flow of blood through the tumour from the anas- tomosing branches; this subsided in about five hours, and all the symptoms ceased permanently. Great success has attended this opera- tion in intra-orbital aneurism. Out of 20 cases, 14 were successful, 2 partially so, in 1 the pulsation continued, and 3 died. In other 13 cases, by English surgeons, 12 were cured. Digital pressure would seem to be at least advantageous in any case, as preparatory to ligature ; dilatation of the collateral arteries preventing the otherwise untoward symptoms which are apt to follow the latter procedure. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Internal or JExternal Carotid and their hranches.—Ligature above and below the seat of wound may, perhaps, be impracticable, owing to the situation of the wounded vessel; or having failed to permanently arrest the hoemor- rhage, the common carotid must be tied. The latter operation has certainly been successful in some cases. Traumatic aneurism having formed, ligature in situ will be more diSicult; but even here the branches of either carotid, which are situated superficially, may be thus secured. The temporal artery, for example, has been wounded in cupping on the temple, and given rise to traumatic aneurism ; but as a branch of the external carotid and readily accessible, the tumour can be laid open, its contents turned out, and the vessel tied on either side of the aperture. Subclavian Artery. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—Aneurism of the subclavian artery pre- sents a pulsating tumour situated immediately above the clavicle, and