SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. 434 the year, or some epidemic influence, will, perhaps, severally suffice to bring out a crop of boils. The treatment is that of carbuncle on a small scale. A poultice or • warm fomentation, to promote suppuration and detachment of the slough, should be followed, if the latter does not take place, by a sufficient incision for expulsion of the core without any thumbing or squeezing. With water-dressing, the little granulating wound will then look after itself. Constitutional measures must have reference either to the plethoric or debilitated state of the system. Alterative mercurials and saline aperients, followed by liquor potasso3 and other alkaline treatment; or quina, iron, and nitro-muriatic acid, the acid-tonic treatment. At the same time, a well-regulated diet, and state of the digestive process, must not be overlooked; in weakly patients, the assimilation of nutri- tious food being promoted by a course of cod-liver oil. Chilblain.—This is a local inflammation of the skin, of an asthenic type; and subject, sometimes, to regular recurring attacks of congestion. It occurs in three degrees :—(1) Simple congestion, attended by great itching, alternating with periods of extreme tenderness to external pressure ; (2) in the form of vesication; (3) death or sloughing of the aSected portion of skin, and perhaps of the subcellular tissue, forming an ulcer of an indolent character. The Symptoms of chilblain are obvious, in connection with each of these forms of this aiJection. Congestive purplish redness, with a tingling, itching, or burning heat or pain, which comes and goes, and some degree of swelling which has a shiny appearance. Recurrence of the symptoms seems to be determined by circumstances affecting the circulation, as exposure of the part to the warmth of a fire, or of a periodic character, as the stimulant effects of daily meals. The vesicated and ulcerated forms of chilblain present appearances which are sufficiently indicated by these terms. Certain parts of the body are most commonly affected ; the feet, hands, or both ; more rarely, the lobes of the ears, or even the end of the nose. The causes of this affection may be said to be, sudden variations in the external temperature, and in connection with the predisposing con- dition of a weak circulation. Hence, chilblain is liable to occur in persons of the leucophlegmatic temperament, or of a scrofulous consti- tution. Age has decidedly some influence ; it happens most frequently in young persons or children, and of both sexes; and in adult females more often than in men. This liability generally passes off towards manhood; and chilblains are rarely met with in men over forty years of age, though in weakly women they may recur throughout life. Local causes affecting the free circulation in the part, should not be overlooked; such as tight gloves, elastic bracelets and garters, or tight shoes, and the sitting posture, long continued, in cold rooms, and with the legs pendant,—as in the mistaken discipline of many a schoolroom. Treatment.— Preventive measures will consist in promoting the general circulation; by an even temperature, particularly as regards sleeping and sitting rooms in cold weather, warm undei'-clothing, socks and o-loves, with regular exercise ; and the removal of any restraint to the circulation in the exposed parts of the body. A generous diet, with small stimulant doses of opium and quinine, may likewise prove salutary, In tlic event of any chill, affecting particularly the feet