ANEUKISM. 459 deposition of coagulum tlie sac is gradually filled up to the level of the artery, which still remaining pervious, the surface of coagulum exposed to the cui'rent of blood acquires a smooth and membranous appearance. In a large artery, through which the blood flows with most force, coagulation within the sac alone may be the whole extent of spontaneous cure. Its external signs are :—gradual solidification of the aneurism; less and less forcible expansion; the pulsation becomes that of a solid tumour; and, lastly, the swelling cannot be reduced by pressure applied to the artery above, or by compressing the aneurism. In aneurism of an artery of the second or third magnitude, thi'ough which the current of blood flows less forcibly, coagulation advances from the sac into the vessel, which gradually becomes plugged up, above and below, with a coagulum, extending to the next important branch above and below the aneurism. This advance of coagulation is accompanied with the cessation of pulsation. Eventually the aneurism contracts and dwindles into a comparatively small solid swelling; while the artery, to some extent, above and below it, is converted into an impervious fibroiis cord. During this process of obliteration, compensation has been gradually made for the loss of the original supply of blood through the artery. The collateral branches above the unobliterated portion of artery enlarge with the additional flow of blood through them, and becoming equal to their extra duty, at length convey as much, of even more, blood than the aneurismal artery formerly supplied. The circulation is adequately restored, and nutrition efficiently sustained, by this com- pensatory supply of blood. Eemembering the internal cause of idiopathic aneurism, the in- elastic or partially ruptured condition of a degenerated portion of artery, as already explained, and also the physiological fact that the coagulation of blood is favoured by rest, we at once perceive how any- thing which retards the flow of blood through an aneurismal sac tends to restore its resisting strength, and is therefore proportionately conducive to the cure of aneurism. The same effect is produced by anything which ofZierwzse favours coagulation of the blood within the sac. Firstly. The flow of blood may be retarded by a less forcible pro- pulsive power of the heart; in which case coagulation is possibly induced without any co-operative condition incidental to the aneurism itself. The sac is gradually filled up to its brim; then, possibly, the artery is plugged, and finally obliterated. This is the usual mode of spontaneous cure. Secondly. The flow of blood through an aneurismal sac may be retarded by a piece of clot dislodged from the sac, and washed into the mouth of the distal portion of artery, or impacted within it some distance off; embolism thus taking place. This condition may be followed by gangrene, from sudden occlusion of the artery, without the simultaneous provision of a collateral circulation. Thus for aneurism by a natural mode of cure, another evil would be substituted. Thirdly. A piece of clot may be floated down to the aneurism from one higher up, or the retarded flow of blood above may induce coagula- tion in the lower sac. Fourthly. The flow of blood may bo retarded by the aneurism over- lapping and compressing the portion of artery immediately above or below itself.