430 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. CHAPTER XXI. CELLULITIS. CARBDNCLK, AND BOIL, Certain Blood diseases are declared by local inflammations of the sub- cutaneous cellular texture. Cellulitis.—Structural Condition.—The textural changes wrought by this inflammation are these :—Speedily an eff'usion of serum engorges the subcutaneous tissue; this being soon exchanged for a purulent, bloody, sanious fluid. The cellular membrane dies rapidly, appearing in the form of shreds and skeins, and as mats of wet tow, or like large "wads of wet shammy-leather; extending over a whole arm, a whole side, or over both successively. An immense extent, therefore, of cellular texture is sacrificed, and this widespread subcutaneous slough passes .in between the neighbouring muscles; but the fasciae are singularly spared ; thus, the tendinous septse between the ribs are seen bared in places where the muscular substance itself and other textures have disappeared. This process of destruction probably involves the skin, and to a corresponding extent. Vesicles or bullae seldom appear until the subcutaneous inflammation is veiy far advanced. These vesicles are in general solitary, sometimes remote from the cellular disease, of considerable size, and occasionally filled with bloody serum. The existence of cellulitis, as an independent disease, has been doubted. I have seen at least one well-marked case. A girl had a trifling puncture, skin-deep, on the outer side of the right knee, which soon healed ; yet inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular texture there commenced, and spread up to the hip, attended with diffuse suppuration and sloughing, so that the patient's life was in jeopardy. But the skin remained unaffected. By timely incisions, the case took a turn to slow recovery. Symptoms, and diagnosis.—Cellulitis might be mistaken for ery- sipelas. The swelling is not unlike, in both diffuse and oedematous. But the pain is at once the earliest and most distinctive symptom; it is excruciating. This, without perhaps any, even the slightest, blush of redness, is characteristic of cellulitis. And should the skin become involved, the cutaneous inflammation is always secondary, in all cases of true cellulitis; by advance from below upwards, from the cellular texture to the skin. This latter texture remains uninflamed, or is not primarily and essentially affected. Fever.—The fever which precedes and accompanies cellulitis, aids but little to establish an early and exact diagnosis. In those cases which Duncan observed, this fever had so much of the typhoid type, that it was scarcely possible to foresee which disease would be eventually declared. Nevertheless, the fever presented considerable varieties in respect of its symptoms and progress. It sometimes commenced in- sidiously, sometimes turbulently, but in most of the severe cases soon reached its height. Its chief peculiarities were the supine position with depressed shoulders, in which attitude the patient almost always lay, without turning to either side, the absence of coma, and the rare