ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 207 Causes.—All these different appearances proceed, generally, from constitutional conditions, as scrofula, scurvy, syphilis ; but, occasionally, they are produced by external causes acting locally on the part; as by friction, continued pressure, filth, or various topical applications and dressings of an irritant character. Two classes of ulcers, therefore, each including subordinate varieties, might be recognized with reference to their etiology; but, practically, it would be difficult to draw this line of distinction. The course of ulceration is either that of progressive extension, in surface and depth ; or that of healing by suppurative granulation and cicatrization, as the mode of reparation. (See Reparation by Granu- lation in Contused and Lacerated Wounds.) Treatment.—Two general indications may be mentioned for guid- ance in the treatment of all ulcers; namely, to arrest disintegration, and to induce reparation. The measures, both local and constitutional, which may be appropriate for the fulfilment of these indications will. be learnt in the treatment of the various species of ulcers. The following species present, perhaps, the most distinctive characters :— (1.) Healthy or typical Ulcer. (2.) Inflamed. (3.) Irritable. (4.) (Edematous. (5.) Indolent, and Yaricose. (6.) Phagedsenic. (7.) Hemorrhagic. (8.) Scorbutic. (9.) Scrofulous. (10.) Cancerous. (11.) Lupoid. (12.) Syphilitic. (1.) Healthy or Typical Ulcee may be consequent on a wound or other injury, or the separation of a slough; and the open sore thus formed, in a healthy person and itself in a healthy state, will be known by certain characters. Of I'ig. 74. variable extent, depth, and shape, the surface is uniformly mammillated with small florid granu- lations (Fig. 74), which, however, do not bleed readily and are not painfully sensitive. Healthy 2ms, opaque, yellowish, and of creamy consistence, more or less in quantity, bathes the granulating surface. The margin of this ulcer shelves gently down to its base, and is scarcely perceptibly harder than the adjoining healthy skin. The new skin, corresponding to the margin, has an opaque white colour, and its formation is preceded by a linear translucent film of cuticle, which, veiling the subjacent granulations, has a bluish-white tint. The granulations immediately within this line are more florid than those nearer to the centre of the ulcer, because more vascular where the cuticle and skin around are being formed. The histological or textural condition consists of an abundaat emigration of cells, infiltrating the connective tissue around the ulcer, and at the base of the granulating surface, where these wandering cells become granulation-cells, some of which pass off as pus-cells. There is also an increased develop- ment of vascular loops, especially in the papillas around the margin of the ulcer, where the granulations are most vascular and florid- and the jJajoiUce are themselves enlarged. Around the margin of the