770 SPKOIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. is in advance of the other, and much abducted; the foot usually points forwards, but occasionally it is slightly everted. (Fig. 381.) The head of the femur can be felt in its new situation, particularly in a thin person; and the prominence of the great trochanter has dis- appeared entirely, presenting a marked flattening of the hip, or a depression in the situation of the trochanter. Causes.—The limb must be in a state of abduction at the moment of injury. Any force from below, or acting on the back, may then produce dislocation downwards and forwards, into the obturator foramen. Thus, a fall from a horse, with the thigh under the body of the animal, has had this effect; and Pirrie once found it caused by the person jumping in great haste out of bed, and while the left foot reached the floor, the right was entangled by the blankets in bed, thus separating the legs and thence producing dislocation into the obturator foramen. The fall of a heavy weight upon the back of the pelvis, when the body is bent forwards and the thighs are apart, will also produce the dislocation. Treatment.—(1.) The patient is laid on his back. Extension must be made upwards and outwards by a perineal girth connected with the pulleys ; and counter-extension maintained by another belt around the pelvis from the dislocated side. As the head of the bone is thus drawn towards its socket, the Surgeon, pass- ing his hand behind the sound Umb, grasps the ankle of the dislocated limb, and drawing it inwards and backwards towards the middle Une, thus throws the head of the bone outwards and upwards to the acetabu- lum ; obs'erving not to flex the thigh, lest the head of the bone should start backwards into the ischiatic notch. The limb is here used as a long lever, over the resisting perineal girth, as a fulcrum. (Fig. 382.) This is Sir A. Cooper's method of reduction. Other methods have been devised, but they do not correspond more nearly to the direction of the displacement. In the absence of pulleys, how- ever, it is well to have other resources, as follow:— (2.) Let the patient sit upon the front of the bed, astride one of the bed-posts, and grasp it; while exten- sion of the limb is made by two assistants. Then, the Surgeon crossing the limb over the sound one, and rotating it outwards, may thus succeed in reducing the dislocation. This method was proposed and practised with success by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, in one case. (3.) Manipulation seems to have succeeded in another case. Mr. Hey flexed the thigh to such an extent as to form an acute angle with the trunk, and then, by rotating it, accomplished reduction. Bigelow's