706 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 12. Fig. 326 * fluid containing entozoa would determine any question of diagnosis. This may occur spontaneously, or be obtained by puncture. The treatment, also, is the same as for ordinary fluid cysts; but it will be advisable to destroy the interior of the hydatid cyst by freely applying nitrate of silver or other caustic. Recureinq Tumoues of Bone,—The Myeloid form of Enchondroma, in connection with bone, is sufficiently de- scribed in the general pathology and treat- ment of this growth. The characteristic appearances on section are here delineated. (Fig. 326.) Recurring osteoid tumour is illustrated by a series of three preparations in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, to the re- markable history of which Mr. Holmes has called attention. A hard and heavy, dry osseous substance formed around the ends of the femur and tibia, projecting into the knee- joint, extending far up the thigh and impli- cating the popliteal artery, vein, and nerve, so as to cause oedema and severe pain. (Prep. No. 3244.) Amputation was performed at the thigh. The patient remained well for five years; then another osteoid tumour formed on the stump of the femur, accom- panied with severe pain. Amputation was performed higher up. The tumour appeared to grow, not from the bone itself so much as from the periosteum, and enclosed the (Prep. No. 3245.) An interval of health again con- when another tumour formed about the stump, femoral artery, tinned for two years ; progressed upwards, out of reach of operation, and finally proved fatal, by inflammation and sloughing of its soft coverings, twenty-five years after the first appearance of the disease. The general health of the patient, a male, remained unaffected during the whole period. (Prep. No. 3245a.) Another, and very similar case, may be found in Paget's " Surgical Pathology." These cases of recurring osteoid tumours certainly bear a remark- able analogy, in their course and tendency, to the recurring fibroid and fibro-nncleated tumours—varieties of fibrous tumour. Cancer.—Each species of Cancer—encephaloid, scirrhous, colloid, and epithelial cancer—is liable to form in connection with bone; but encephaloid is the most frequent. Like other diseases of bone. Cancer may affect the substance or the surface of a bone : in the one situation, it is known as interstitial or possibly central cancer; in the other, as periosteal cancer. In the substance of bone, interstitial cancer occurs in the form of scattered nodules, having a whitish colour, and the consistence of scirrhous, or hard encephaloid cancer. The cancer-cell—so littls absolutely characteristic of cancer—may be indistinguishable or absent. These nodules coalescing, form a mass, which occupies the cancellous tissue, and extends into the medullary canal. The bone surrounding