393 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. a contused wound, the textures or a part wMcb. may not have been killed more immediately by the injury, die subsequently. Yet here, also, the gangrene is limited to the seat of injury, and is defined by sloughing. Gangrene may, indeed, supervene on a contused or lacerated wound, without any apparent or notable inflammation, and extend far beyond the seat of injury ; a whole limb speedily falling into gangrene, which spreads rapidly and is not determined by a line of demarcation. This, which has been named spreading traumatic gangrene, is traumatic only in having arisen from injury as the immediate or exciting cause; but its spreading and unlimited character points to some blood-condition, in operation, as the essential cause. In fact, this gangrene is the local manifestation of a con- stitutional condition, rather than the consequence of a local cause in operation. Its pathological significance is corroborated by two facts— that the contusion or laceration is quite subordinate in extent to the supervening gangrene; and that it occurs in those persons especially who have albuminuria, a state of urine indicative of the retention of excrementitious matters, chiefly urea, in the blood. Either form of gangrene—traumatic or inflammatory—is always humid or moist, unlike the dry species of which senile gangrene is the representative. When a part is killed immediately, the appearances are those of the most severe contusion or bruise; when less immediately completed, as by injury to the blood-vessels, the symptoms are the same, but proportionately more gradual; and when gangrenous in- flammation supervenes, the symptoms are those of inflammation rapidly passing into gangrene. But when spreading traumatic gan- grene takes place, the phenomena are those of a severely poisoned wound. Gangrene is announced by great tension and livid or purplish-black discolouration, which although most conspicious about the seat of injury, extends rapidly upwards and downwards; its progress being preceded by a slighter oedematous swelling and greenish-yellow discolouration. This in advance, is a dying part; that in the rear, is already dead. Emphysematous crackling, under pressure with the finger, soon leaves no doubt that death and decom- position go hand in hand. The accompanying constitutional symptoms are those of typhoid blood-poisoning; and the disease generally termi- nates fatally in a very few days, or not later than whenever the gan- grene shall have spread to the trunk. Reparation.—In favourable contrast with any tendency to death, the wound may evince a disposition to heal by primary adhesion ; or, any irrecoverable part having sloughed and separated, the exposed surface heals by swi^purative granulation. But the process of reparation is best seen on the clean surface of an open or gaping incised wound. This process is then as follows:—The local circulation is temporarily suspended, and the blood in the superficial vessels becomes stagnant, and coagulated up to the nearest branches. Any oozing hasmorrhage IS thus stopped. During the first day or two, a reddish-yellow serous fluid exudes from the surface of the wound, which, containing pale blood-cells and a fibrinous matter, sets into a thin, yellowish-white or greyish film, rendering the appearances of the subjacent tissues ^ * •''fl T^^^ whole surface becomes glazed over. Symptoms or inflammation may, perhaps, precede and accompany this exudation ; some redness, puffy swelling, heat and tenderness, just around the