287 ERYSIPELAS. taneous- lymphatics may be distinguished by its not appearing as numerous patches, in diiferent parts of the body, but only in connec- tion with the local lesion, from whence it arises; and by the spreading character of the inflammation. Phlegmonous, or Gellulo-Gutaneous Erysipelas—and its Diagnostic cha- racters.—Another form of the inflammation—phlegmonous erysipelas —presents diflFerent characters from those of simple erysipelas. The roseate hue, if it should appear in the first instance, is soon exchanged for a brownish or livid tint which mottles the skin. The subcellular texture is gorged with serum, and exhibits a considerable swelling, which, however, readily pits on pressure with the finger. This cedema- tous swelling, of considerable size, and this purple shade of colour exhibited by the skin, contrast with the characters of simple erysipelas as it first appears. The burning pain also is more severe, and perhaps accompanied with throbbing. Otherwise, the simple and phlegmonous varieties have points of resemblance. In both, the redness presents a defined margin; in both, the inflammation extends itself continuously by creeping over the surface. But then again, in phlegmonous ery- sipelas, serous infiltration of the subcellular texture advances and deepens with alarming rapidity; and although itself diffused, the stuffed cushion of cellular tissue soon feels braimy. A few small vesicles only represent the overflow of serum under the cuticle; they do not reveal the perilous state of affairs beneath the skin. Terminations.—Burrowing suppuration and rapid sloughing threaten; these dangers not being attended with increased tension, swelling, and pointing, as in phlegmonous inflammation; on the contrary, rather with diminished tension, subsidence, and flaccidity. At that period, ob- serves Dupuytren,* when phlyctenae have formed, and the cellular texture becomes thickened and indurated, the symptoms appear for two, three, or four days to be stationary; and an inexperienced surgeon is even led to hope foi" the resolution of the inflammation, while the danger is really urgent, and suppuration already exists. This, then, is the critical period of phlegmonous erysipelas. If unchecked, the conclusion of its career may be told in a few words. Very soon after this period of deceitful calm comes an outburst. A more livid hue overshadows the integuments ; the skin melts away in patches, accom- panied with a discharge of bloody sanious fluid, and the exposure of white sloughs of cellular tissue, portions of which bulge here and there through apertures in the integument. Sometimes this texture perishes extensively, but if partially spared, large sloughs of cellular tissue, resembling masses of soddened tow, are eventually detached; while the adjoining cellular texture is drilled with small abscesses, or a pro- fuse suppuration burrows wherever fluid can find its way—between muscles, and possibly into a neighbouring joint. Thus all parts around become involved in the ravages of phlegmonous erysipelas. In one fatal case, under Dupuytren's observation, the whole leg was laid bare of skin and cellular tissue, exposing the tibia and patella. After prolonged suppuration and sloughing, those textures which do escape—the muscles, fasciae, tendons, and bones—are so agglutinated together as to seriously and permanently impair their uses in the ^nimal economy. * « Clia. Chir." t. ii. p. 311.