GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 174 by the treatment of Cancer than by that of any other Morbid Growth. (1.) Arrest of Cancer, and Hygienic and Medicinal Treatment.—The natural arrest and decay of cancer consists in the cessation of growth, and the disintegrative destruction, of its proper structural elements'; changes which are accompanied with, and denoted by, withering of the Tumour. This course and termination are observed mostly in the career of scirrhus, as witnessed best in the puckered-up chronic mammary cancer and shrivelled breast of old women. No known medicinal treatment seems to insure this result; although iron, bark, cod-liver oil, the anodyne influence of opium, and such other agents as, apparently, improve nutrition, may prove auxiliary. But hygienic measures, especially in the shape of a generally nutritious and easily assimilated diet, and a cheerful, hopeful tone of mind, will be most efficacious. The growth of a cancer-tumour is inversely proportionate to the arrestive influence of the general health. Thus, when the body is well nourished, the tumour starves. Local applications are advantageous resources occasionally. Any temporary supervention of inflammation may be treated accordingly, by a few leeches or a light poultice. Pain recurring or persistent, and affecting the general health, is often mitigated by a belladonna plaster, or by conium or opium ointment. A scruple of the iodide of lead in a drachm of glycerine, mixed with an ounce of unguentum opii, is recom- mended by Mr. Mooi'e. Gently rubbed over the tumour two or three times a day, it reduces any swelling, as well as relieves pain. Soap plaster, used simply to protect, not to compress, the integument, is also calculated to retard the progress of the growth. Compression may control pain, but its efficacy in repressing growth is doubtful. First tried at the Middlesex Hospital many years since, it was unfavourably reported on by Sir Charles Bell; subsequently, highly extolled by Recamier—who stated that 30 per cent, of his cases were cured—and advocated by Dr. Walshe—it has, nevertheless, not found much favour in this country. Compression is best effected by means of the air-cushion and spring, devised by Dr. Neil Arnott. Pres- sure varying in force from two and a half to twelve or sixteen pounds can thus be brought to bear on the tumour. (2.) Sloughing and Enucleation. — (a.) By Cauterization. — This method of treatment is warrantable only in cancer which is already ulcerated, and has acquired adhesions beyond the fair reach of the knife. Cancerous glands, as an extension of the disease, are not so con- veniently removed by the application of caustic. But they, and the textures around the slough, mostly become notably diminished in size; an important fact with reference to the glands, compared with their progressive enlargement after removal of the primary tumour by ex- cision. Yelpeau's observations seem to confirm this difference in favour of treatment by caustic. It may be followed by successful results, but of temporary duration; a few weeks only—if the disease be incompletely extirpated, or lasting until after the wound has healed— if a healthy granulating surface was obtained. Eventually, in either case, cancer reappears, in situ, and runs its course with rarely an excep- tion to a fatal termination. As compared with removal by the knife, the advantages of cauteri- zation are—the bloodless character of the operation and, consequently,