8 THE SCIENCE AND PKACTICE OF SURGERY. exposure to an infectious poison. Then, that weakening of the system cannot be said to predispose, but it is aptly named the determinmg cause. An innate power of resisting the supervention of morbid conditions, explains why the same cause does not invariably produce its reputed effect in different individuals, or in the same individual, at different periods of life; this uncertainty being due to different degrees of resisting power. But the influence of habitual toleration will also much affect the operation of causes, whether external or internal. Either kind of cause may be self-sufficient, but both kinds frequently co-operate, or operate in succession; the internal cause more commonly predisposing, the external, when sufficiently aided thereby, immediately inducing disease or injury. Thus, a fall which does not produce a hernial protrusion in one case, immediately does so in another, owing to weakness of the abdominal wall at the seat of rupture, as the structural predisposing condition to this lesion; and a posture which does not cause an apoplectic seizure in one case, immediately does so in another, owing to the blood-vessels of the brain having become brittle from calcareous degeneration. Causes are also distinguished as local and constitutional. The former term requires no definition; the latter signifies such conditions of disease as have a systemic character, and a correspondingly wide- spread influence in the production of local manifestations. Such are principally diseases of the blood, of the nervous system, or of nutrition. Local causes may give rise to constitutional diseases; and conversely, any constitutional cause must give rise to, and be manifested by, some local affection or affections. Thus we often speak of the constitutional origin of local disease, a general and most important doctrine of etiology, originally taught by Abernethy. The detection of internal causes, whether local or constitutional, may be regarded as an extension of diagnosis, and consequently pertains chiefly to Pathological Anatomy; but the operation of these causes, through functional disturbances, comprises the further study of Pathology. Diseases, which were formerly regarded as of local origin, and to be removed by topical applications, have been traced back to their constitutional origin in the blood-forming processes ; of which such diseases are only manifestations, and are accordingly submitted to constitutional treatment. It has been thus that our knowledge of scrofulous affections has been expanded; that many skin diseases, and ulcerations of mucous membranes, diseases of the eye, the bones and joints, of the testicle, and other parts, have also been referred to constitutional syphilis; while the pathology of gout and rheumatism has been equally fruitful in the intei-pretation of many otherwise anomalous local affections. Nor has the pathology of the nervous system been unproductive in the same direction; and thus we now recognize hysterical affections of the joints, and other parts of the body, as distinguished from inflammatory disease; a discrimination which has saved many limbs that, doubtless, were formerly sacrificed by an erring surgical interference. On the other hand, the local origin of constitutional disease embraces the causative relations of injury, and local disease, to morbid states of the system. In relation to the nervous system, the vital history of injury comprises the phenomena of shock, reaction, prostration with excitement or traumatic dehrium, and tetanus.