230 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tales mesenterica, by arresting the absorption and passage of chyle through these glands, and thus inevitably depriving the whole body of its nutriment. A tumid abdomen, with progressive emaciation, begets suspicion of this disease; while detection of the mesenteric mass, by palpation and percussion, will go far towards confirming our diagnosis. But wo look for the concurrence of some other expressions of the scro- fulous diathesis. Age, also, should be taken into account; although, in this respect, Thomson found the mesenteric glands affected in children two years old, in persons between twenty and thirty, and in those wbo had passed their sixtieth year. The cellular texture is peculiarly liable to exhibit scrofulous swell- ings, bordering on suppuration or actual collections of matter. In the subcutaneous cellular tissue, small nodules are apt to form closely resembling scrofulous glands in appearance. They often appear very suddenly; and from the absence of pain and discoloration, they may exist a long time without being perceived. They are usually of an oval figure, and seem to be produced by the effusion of a fluid into the interstices of the cellular texture ; they are very variable in their size, being one day more prominent and tense, and the next more flaccid. Subcutaneous abscesses may form, and are usually numerous. When an absorbent gland suppurates and bursts, a fistulous sore is the result; but abscess in the subcutaneous cellular texture commonly terminates in an open scrofulous ulcer. In the sheaths of muscles, large chronic abscesses sometimes gather insidiously, containing the pus which characterizes scrofulous suppura- tion. The sJcin is more than liable—it is prone—to scrofulous eruptions and ulceration. Its wrinkled seams and puckered scars are familiar to common observation. And these vestiges are not unfrequently " sym- metrically " disposed on either side of the body. An instance of remarkably symmetrical scrofulous scars on the neck and fore part of the chest, occurred in a patient of mine at the Royal Free Hospital. In the middle line, a vertical scar extended downwards to the sterno- clavicular articulation, terminating in a kind of root, and upwards to the OS hyoides. From thence a branch scar passed upwards and back- wards to the angle of the jaw, on either side ; and from this again, on either side, another seam extended upwards to the mastoid process, and downwards on the sterno-mastoid muscle. Either axilla was the seat of a horizontal seam, which discharged a small quantity of scrofulous matter. According to the special experience of Erasmus Wilson, cuta- neous scT'ofula is presented in two conditions—that of tubercles, and that of idcers. Scrofulous tubercles are small, purplish or livid, indo- lent tumours. They soften internally and discharge an imperfect pus, remain open or fistulous for a long time, and on disappearing, fre- 'quently leave hard knots in the skin. They appear on the neck and face, and near ulcers resulting from inflammation of the absorbent glands. When such tubercles have partially discharged their contents, a crust of inspissated matter forms, which being rubbed off occasionally, exhibits an open sore, with an ichorous discharge, and no disposition to heal. Eventually an ugly cicatrix or scar marks the site of these sores. Usually but one scrofulous tubercle arises; sometimes a group of three or four close together, which may have a circular arrangement, enclosing an area of thin, shining, livid or purpHsh skin. Rings of