EXTRA-CAPSULA.R FRACTURE OP THE NECK OF THE FEMUR, 651 * (St. liaitholomcw'B Hospital Museum, C. 'J(j. FiQ. 255. * portion of which, embraces, and fixes, the neck of the femur, thus shortened and slid down nearly to a right-angle. (See Fig. 254.) The Signs of extra-capsular are the same as those of inti*a-capsular fracture, but more marked. Thus, shortening, averaging one inch and a quarter—in 42 cases—may reach to two, three, and even four inches, Eversion is very conspicuous, but inversion not uncommon as compared with intra-capsular fracture. Flattening of the hip is also well marked, unless swelling, which is often considerable, has supervened. Crepitus and mobility are equally notable; and these three hip-signs are even more pronounced with comminuted fracture. Pain, always severe, and total inability to move the joint, will no less attract the notice of the Surgeon. Impacted fracture renders all these signs obscure or imperceptible, except shortening, which varies from half an inch to an inch. The limb cannot be extended to its original length. Gaiises.—Direct violence, as by a fall on the hip, is the usual mode of fracture; occasionally, indirect force, as by a fall upon the feet or knees. Age has less predisposing influence than with relation to intra- capsular fracture. Extra-capsular fracture is said to be most frequent between the ages of thirty and forty; but Hamilton regards the liability as proportionate to advancing life, and that age may be considered as the " grand predisposing cause." Both sexes seem equally liable. The age of the patient, and the generally direct and severe violence associated with the production of extra- capsular fracture, will aid in distinguishing it from the intra-capsular. Union by hone takes place readily, and especially with an impacted fracture. (Fig, 255.) The callus is deposited, almost in- variably, along the inter-trochanteric lines ; and also, not unfrequently, along the lines of the other fractures of the trochanter. This callus is abundant and irregular, pro- jecting as spines and tuberosities; forming a knobby and spiculated crown, which embraces the upper fragment. Osseous buttresses sometimes reach even to the ^ bones of the pelvis. The use of the limb may be restored in six or eight weeks; but lameness still continues, and with impacted fracture, the limb being shortened, this condition is permanent. Sometimes the union of extra-capsular fracture is attended with depression of the neck (see Fig. 255), resulting in a proportionate shortening of the limb. Comparing fractures of the neck of the femur, within and without the capsule, it will be seen that they differ in their structural con- ditions, in the degree of their signs, in their causes, and prognosis. Treatment.—Moderate extension and rest, by means of the long straight splint, is here the most appropriate mode of treatment. A bandage or padded belt may be applied around the pelvis, underneath the splint, to retain the trochanter, often comminuted, in position. The