171 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. cancerous ulcer renders it a healthy cicatrizing sore, for a time. But, in some cases, the healing is established, and a sound cicatrix has formed. This has occurred in the ulcers of both scirrhous and en- cephaloid cancers. Of such unusual permanency, a case is related by Nicod, and several others were observed by Bayle. The Cicatrix of a cancerous ulcer is, in some respects, peculiar. It is extremely thin, of a red or violet colour, and often traversed by large vessels. Contraction is restrained by the firmly adherent skin around, the cicatrix is thus rendered very tense and even more attenuated, and disposed to ulcerate again. Recurrence of Cancer, locally.—This is a very common event in the vital history of cancer, whether after its separation spontaneously, or removal artificially by the knife. The period of recurrence is generally early; in scirrhous cancer, under six months in the great majority of cases (Lebert) ; in encephaloid, about seven months as the average (Paget) ; in colloid, a period of uncertain duration; and in epithelial cancer, the period of immunity may extend to months or years. As a general rule, the rapidity of recurrence is proportionate, not to the previous duration, but to the rate of gr6wth, of the primary cancer. Local reproduction takes place under different circumstances, which are classed, by Dr. Walshe, as follows:—(a.) The process of cicatriza- tion may not distinctly commence, or be interrupted at an early stage, and funga- Fig- 59.* ting growths spring from some part of the ulcer or wound. (6.) A perfect cicatrix forms, and after a variable lapse of time, a tumour grows in the subjacent tissues, presses outwards the newly formed scar, destroys it, and appears externally with the characters of cancer. (c.) In the cicatrix itself, reproduction may occur, by the development of tuberiform cancerous growths. (Fig. 59.) {d.) The lymphatic glands, near to the original cancer-growth, may become the seat of recurrent cancer; as often witnessed after the removal of scirrhus, which primarily affected the breast. Encephaloid is said to be the species of cancer usually reproduced, whatever was the growth; but the accuracy of this observation is doubtful, at least regard to scirrhous cancer of the breast, the recurrent form of which is equally scirrhus. Colloid perhaps never forms consecutively to ■ either of the other species of cancer-growth. Recurrent cancer is said to grow more rapidly than the primary ^ cancer, but certainly this is not the rule in regard to scirrhus. Less • pain and exhaustion attend the recurrent disease, whether scirrhus or encephaloid, than the primary growth. Dissemination of Cancer in the System.—Secondary Cancer.—(a.) In t textures contviiuous with that, or those, of the original growth. Con- t tinuity of tissue is here the medium of communication, directly permit- t ting of mfiltration. The textures which convey the cancer-elements, n,ir„i!i^^-"™^'^^ scirrhus in the breast, after operation; presenting a series of n noaules m and around the cicatrix. One in the centre has ulcerated. (Cruveilhier.) original in