31 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. and the hand of the chloroformist to enclose the vapour, still observing to admit the air freely under one corner or one-half of the towel. This is continued, interrupted perhaps by the temporary excitement and struggles of the patient, until the arm falls involuntarily and relaxed when raised, and the eyelid ceases to move when the conjunc- tiva is touched with the finger. During the course of inhalation, the chloroformist should have his other hand on the pulse, carefully feeling its force and frequency, while at the same time he unceasingly watches the breathing. If at any moment, earlier or later, during inhalation, the pulse sinks to a feeble, slow beat; or if the breathing becomes strongly stertorous; immediately discontinue the administration of chloroform; and for the relief of the respiration, at once seize the tip of the tongue, with forceps or the fingers, and draw it firmly forwards out of the mouth, until the tendency to obstruction has subsided. The breathing returns with perfect freedom, and the over- shadowing lividity of the face disappears. Chloroform can then be cautiously re-applied, if necessary. Inhalers of various kinds have been devised for the purpose of regu- lating the proportion of chloroform and the admixture of air. Snow's inhaler, or Clover's chloroform apparatus, may be employed; and the latter is spoken of very highly by those who have used it, as being most eSicient. But simplicity with efficiency is always a great re- commendation, and thus the administration of chloroform by means of a piece of lint or a handkerchief can be accomplished ab once, when any form of inhaler may not be at hand and would have perhaps to be fetched from a distance of some miles. Even in Hospitals, inhalers are not commonly employed. In point of safety, the two methods of chloroform administration are equally available, provided only that a free admixture of air be attended to. I have seen chloroform given in some thousands of cases without an inhaler, during about thirty years,—ever since its introduc- tion, and both in Hospital and private practice, with only one death, or even an approach to a fatal termination, when the requisite precau- tions for safety have been observed. Death from Chloroform.—During inhalation, death may occur from the failure of either of the organs which constitute the tripod of life; by asphyxia, by cardiac syncope, or by coma; through failure of the respiration from insufficient aeration, or by laryngeal obstruction; cessation of the heart's actions; or congestion of the brain. Asphyxia is indicated by the ordinary symptoms: lividity and tur- gescence of the face, violent respiratory efforts, and cessation of the pulse, and of the heart's action. These symptoms may arise simply from deprivation of air resulting in a highly venous state of the blood ; but stertorous or snoring breathing is superadded, when the asphyxia arises from laxyiigeal obstruction. The cause of this obstruction is generally attributed to a " falling back of the tongue," thus mechani- cally obstructing the entrance of air through the larynx. But Mr. Lister has specially investigated the question, and he finds that the obstruction arises from an approximation of the apices of the arytsenoid cartilages towards, or to, the base of the epiglottis ; the stertorous breathing resulting from the vibration of the corresponding portions of mucous membrane, the posterior parts of the arytjcno-epiglottidean folds. Traction of the tongue firmly forwards abolishes the obstruc-