319 nYDKOPHOBLi. at once, if possible, be inquired into. The dog and cat chiefly concern us in this country. Rarely is the rabid state any approach to tho popular notion of a "mad" dog. No wild excitement appears, no savage tendency to bite, and certainly no dread of water, so remark- able in tho human subject. Rather will suspicion be aroused on ascer- taining that the animal evinces only some strange departure from its usual habits and manner. In very many instances this peculiarity is a disposition to jjick tip straw, bits of paper, rag, thread, or any small object in the way. The animal laps water greedily. A disposition to lick is noticed in some cases, and particularly to lick anything cold— cold stones, or the cold nose of another dog; great aversion, however, to strange dogs and cats, especially to the latter, is very commonly observed at an early period. Some such unusual propensity is soon followed by an ■hritahle, peevish manner. The animal snaps at those about it, and resolutely fights if the least provoked, or vents its rage in peculiar howling or barking, the voice being husky and jerking. This state is known as furious rabies. When thus obviously dangerous, it is forthwith destroyed. Tet a dog dangerously rabid may be perfectly quiet and natural, save in respect of some unsuspicious, because unobtrusive, symptom. Allowed to run about, patted and played with as usual, it bites in an unguarded moment. In this state, therefore, although not manifestly rabid, the animal should be at once chained up. Instead of being kiUed, it can then be watched, to ascer- tain the real nature of its indisposition; thereby determining the necessity for excision in the case of any person who has been bitten. If the animal be affected with rabies, it will probably die in a few days; and this operation is imperatively demanded. The safe custody of the rabid animal will also effectually prevent further mischief being done during his short period of probation. Two other forms of rabies in the dog may be mentioned. But, in both conditions, the animal is not aggressive, and in one there is a manifest inability to bite. Thus, observes Fleming, in cZitmS-madness, the lower jaw is paralyzed and drops, leaving the mouth open, and showing the tongue flaccid or swollen, covered with a brownish mattei', and a glutinous, stringy saliva lying between it and the lower lip, and coating the fauces, which sometimes appear inflamed. Slavering is almost peculiar to this form of rabies, but the animal is ordinarily helpless and not aggressive; it can neither bark nor bite, nor eat nor drink. In tranqidl rabies, the dog lies rolled up, as if comatose, and indifferent to everything; it cannot be provoked to bite, and dies quietly in aboiit fifteen days from the commencement of these symptoms of the disease. Supposing an animal, not itself rabid, or bordering on that con- dition, to have been bitten—a healthy dog, bitten by another dog, decidedly rabid. The latter will, of course, be killed; but when may the former apparently healthy dog be allowed to go free ? The question turns on the period of latency among animals. In the dog it is considered to terminate about the end of the sixth week. At the Veterinary School, Alfort, when a dog is bitten, it is chained up for fifty days, and, if healthy at the end of that period, is restored to its master. Mr. Samuel Cooper used to mention in his lectures, at University College, an instance of a more extended period than that which regulates the preventive measure adopted at Alfort. A lai'ge Newfoundland dog, having been bitten by another dog, did not become