GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. 280 Iodide of potassium.—'Not to be trusted for tlie prevention of con- stitutional syphilis, iodide of potassium ranks next to mercury as a curative agent; and especially in some forms of the disease, and in a certain constitutional condition, whether natural to the individual or morbid, where the action of mercury cannot be borne. It may be stated generally, that in the forms of skin eruption accompanied with plastic induration, in the earlier period of constitutional syphilis, and in young and vigorous subjects, mercury is most curative; whereas, in pustular eruptions, enlargement of the testicle, periostitis and ostitis, and any tertiary affections, in the later periods of syphilis, and in debilitated, cachectic subjects, iodide of potassium is the more remedial. But, perhaps, it may be added that its effects are less permanent than those of mercury, and thus the disease is liable to recur. Iodide of potassium is given in doses, usually from three to five grains, thrice daily, and combined with cinchona bark, cascarilla, or other vegetable tonic; this adjunct generally being requisite under the circumstances of suppuration or ulceration, wherein the iodide is prescribed. This medicinal agent was, I believe, originally brought into use for the treatment of constitutional syphilis, by Mr. Samuel Cooper, Mr. Morton, and other Surgeons at University College Hospital, about the time when I was a Student in that Institution; and it has since found much favour with the Profession. I have prescribed it with marked advantage in some thousands of cases, principally at the Royal Free Hospital. Iodide of mercv/ry has considerable repute with many continental surgeons; a grain being given in a pill three times a day, and gradually increased to three grains. Or, this combination may, probably, be effected in the system, by the concurrent administration of iodide of potassium or iodide of sodium, while mercury is introduced through the skin; thus obviating any irritation of the digestive organs which might be excited by giving the iodide of mercury itself. Sarsaparilla has far less influence on constitutional syphilis than was formerly supposed, within my recollection. Its therapeutic value would seem to be restricted to the more asthenic or later secondary, and tertiary symptoms, and as occurring in debilitated subjects; the same circumstances which render iodide of potassium preferable to mercury. Or, again, mercury having produced a new series of symptoms simulating the syphilitic, sarsaparilla will then be remedial; or it may come into use at a subsequent period, to remove the sequel'' of a mercurial course. Sarsaparilla is thus, on the one hand, a sub- stitute for iodide of potassium ; or, on the other hand, an anti-mercurial. The decoction is the preparation usually employed, but it must be concentrated, and drank freely ; in not less quantity than a wine-glass- ful three times a day. It may be advantageously combined witli iodide of potassium ; the two forming what has been indefinitely named an " alterative " mixture. Sarsaparilla has also a tonic influence, but less so than bark, and it is said to be diuretic and diaphoretic. This compound influence may give sarsaparilla an advantage over the more purely tonic operation of bark, when given in combination with iodide of potassium. Guaiacum—another overrated medicine in relation to constitutional syphilis—is nevertheless, apparently, beneficial under similiar circum- stances to those which render sarsaparilla—and iodide of potassium—