729 UNREDUCED DISLOCATION AND FALSE-JOINT. alone ; any attempt at reduction being useless or worse. Under these circumstances, reduction has, indeed, been effected, but with grea,t injury to the limb, and even with a fatal result. In one such case, that of a dislocated shoulder, reduction was followed by great swelling of the ai'm; a tumour formed in the axilla, which, at the end of thirty- eight days, burst with alarming hajmorrhage. Ligature of the sub- clavian artery fortunately saved the patient's life. In other cases, suppuration in and around the joint, and gangrene of the limb, have been known to ensue. (6) When the action of a new joint is less easy, and less efficient, reduction of the dislocation may be attemjytecl, and with successful issue to limb and life. The hind and amount of extension are, however, features in the treatment worthy of special attention. Extension, gradually increased, and continued for pei'haps some hours, or renewed daily, is necessary, to overcome the resistance of the shortened muscles, any adhesions of the tendons or ligaments, and to extricate the bone from its new articular adaptations. But it should ever be remembered that, possibly, more than these mechanical obstacles to reduction exist. There is always some risk of rupturing any blood-vessels which may have become adherent. Yet this is an accident which cannot be foreseen, otherwise than by observing the general rule laid down respecting any surgical interference. Of course, reduction should be conducted under the influence of chlorofoi'm. When pain and swelling have subsided, in the course of a week or two, passive motion should be commenced. The extreme periods of unreduced Dislocation, within which limits reduction is practicable, with safety to the limb and life of the patient, can scarcely be determined by experience. Nor is this question of much practical importance, considering the functional conditions, already mentioned, which should guide the Surgeon. Successful results have been obtained at extreme periods, varying from a few days to many months, and even beyond two years! In a dislocation of the elbow, backwards, unreduced for six months, Mr. Darke con- tinued extension with pulleys during eight hours and a half, when the bones returned to their proper situation. Three other cases of this date were successful in the hands of Gorre and Gerdy. A dislocation of the shoulder, unreduced for six weeks, was overcome by Mr. Mash, in the Northampton Infirmary, by extension at intervals with pulleys, during eight hours. A dislocation of the head of the radius forwards, of twenty-five months, in a child nine years old, was reduced by Dr. Stark; extension being repeated daily for twenty-two days, consecu- tively. This is, I believe, the longest period at which extension has been successful, in unreduced dislocation of any joint in the upper extremity. Manual extension has proved sufficient in some cases. Thus, I reduced a dislocation of the radius hacJcwards, of ten weeks; the adhesions about the head of the bone audibly giving way. In the lower extremity, the periods of limitation have been much less, with regard to the hip-joint. In two instances, dislocation of the femur on the dorsum ilii has been reduced after the lapse of six months. In both, reduction was effected by " manipulation;" the one under the influence of chloroform, the other, without; but in this case the patient, a boy, was feeble and the muscles flaccid. In both, the results were successful; the limb recovering its functions and the muscles