5 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. the seat of injury, with the presence of crepitation and mobility at tliat part; the signs of Dislocation also are characteristic; and the same may be said of most other injuries; while, among diseases, the signifi- cance of physical diagnosis is illustrated by that of Tumours ; as with regard to their -various differences of shape or surface-character, con- sistence, size, and mobility. By an appeal to stmctural characters appertaining to the textural elements of Morbid Products of Nutrition,—the cells and fibres, or other organized constituents of such Products, as found in the dis- charges from natural passages, it may be possible—under examination with the microscope—to determine their nature; whether as to pro- ducts derived from the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, or intestines, the lungs, kidneys, urinary bladder, or urethra, the uterus, or vagina ; or as yielded by the skin, or procured by subcutaneous puncture. This turning out of the interior of the body, or gathering from its surface, supplies the materials for all that minute inspection which is associated with the achievements of microscopic examination. Among tumours or morbid growths, for instance, the diagnostic value of structural characters, and as compared with physical diagnosis, is forcibly illus- trated by the differentiation of the recurring varieties of non-malignant tumours, from the typical forms of such tumours. Thus, the fibro- nucleated tumour—a recurring growth, and the ordinary fibrous tumour, possess the same physical characters,—those of a hard, elastic, lobulated tumour; but the recurring form represents only a rudimen- tary condition of fibrous tissue,—consisting of fine filaments infiltrated with an abundance of well-defined oval nuclei; whereas, the fibrous tumour consists simply of developed fibrous tissue. These two struc- tural conditions can be readily distinguished under the microscope, and by merely puncturing the tumour with a grooved needle, this method of Diagnosis is made available in clinical .examination. Its critical value lies in the fact, that tumours which otherwise present the physical characters of identity, and would thus be mistaken, have yet a widely different vital history and therapeutic importance. An ordinary fibrous tumour, never recurring, admits of removal by the knife as a certain cure; but a fibro-nucleated tumour recurring, is so far allied to a cancerous growth, and when removed, springs up again and again, so that in spite of surgical interference, it not unfrequently runs its course to a fatal termination. The same diagnostic superiority of structural characters, might be further exemplified by the recurring fibroid, as compared with the fibrous tumour, in relation to their vital history and treatment; while something might be said to reclaim the value of the structural method of Diagnosis with regard to cancer- growths. But, if the microscopic examination of organized products has yielded important diagnostic results in relation to Surgery, how fruitful has been this method of diagnosis in its extension to crystalline forms. No one will dispute the value of the knowledge thus acquired respect- ing Urinary Deposits. Overlooking the varieties observed in the crystals of each kind of deposit, certain well-defined forms may be regarded as typical, and representing the morbid conditions of urine in which they are found ; such crystalline deposits supply conclusive or corroborative evidence of the diseases with which they are more or less constantly and exclusively associated. The rhomboidal prisms of