NECROSIS. 687 Fig. 305 * Fig. SOG.t the periosteum—a layer of new bone, lialf an incli ttick, and forming almost a complete new wall to the tibia, has been produced. (Fig. 304.) The outer surface of this new bone is covered by the old periosteum, the continuity of which with that of the articular ends is shown ; and the inner surface of the new bone is lined by a soft vascular mem- brane which was in close contact with the outer surface of the dead bone. But observation has shown that the original bone itself is an important source of new bone—by granulation—in the absence of the periosteal membrane, or in central necrosis; and that the medullary membrane may contribute its share. The articular ends, in particular, evince a remarkable ossific power, when the shaft of a long bone is removed. I have seen an inch and a half of the shaft of the tibia thus reproduced. Apart from the periosteum, when this texture is destroyed, the soft tissues around the bone may acquire the power of forming ossific deposit. The dead portion, at first con- tinuous with the healthy bone at either end, loses its connection at the line of continuity; the living bone detaching itself from the dead. Ulceration takes place in the course of that line, the purulent discharge containing 2^ per cent, of bone- earth, phosphate of lime, as shown by Mr. B. Cooper; or interstitial granulations are produced, by which a slight amount of bone is consumed, as Billroth states. A groove is thus formed around the junction of the dead portion of bone (Fig. 305) ; and this groove deepening, at length completely detaches it. Pus collects around the sequestrum, and interrupting the complete formation of the periosteal sheath of new bone, leaves apertures therein—one or two to four or five in number—the cloacce, through which sinuous tracks between the sequestrum and fistulous openings in the integument become estab- Hshed. (Fig. 306.) These orifices pout with large, abortive granula- tions. This twofold process goes on simultaneously, though not perhaps equally; constituting a separation of the living from the dead bone, and rejjaration, chiefly by the periosteal reproduction of a cylinder of new bone enclosing the dead portion. Both changes are slowly pro- gressive, extending over a period of weeks or months. But at length the seqiiestrum becomes complete, and ensheathed by the cylinder or invohicrura of new bone. (Fig. 307.) This latter is highly vascular, and of a bright red colour; although, when dried as a "pathological preparation," the new bony case is whitish brown, rough, and porous. It is perforated with apertures—the cloacw, unlike the enclosed se- questrum of dead bone; which—in a specimen—may be further recog- nized, through the cloacoB, by its white colour, smooth and firm * St. Partholome-ff's IIosp. Mus., ], 23. t Diagram from Billroth.