262 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (2.) Diseases of Mucous Membranes.—Ulceration of the tonsils— " sore throat "—ranks among the earlier and less equivocal secondary symptoms. The ulcer formed is excavated, with a sharp and prominent, not to say everted, margin. The bed of this ulcer is sloughy, the surround- ing mucous membrane dusky red. But even these appearances are not distinctive of syphilis, and original observers, such as Rose and Carmichael, concur in mistrusting "the ulcerated sore throat." Certainly, the excavated ulcer of Hunter is not consequent on the indurated chancre only; and we must acknowledge, with Carmichael, that affections of the throat are too indistinct to afford any certain diagnosis. Fissures of, and milky stains on, the tongue and inside the lips are more pathognomonic, but the former must be distinguished from those cracks which accompany irritable dyspepsia, and the latter—opaque white spots—resemble aphthous spots. More doubtful are mucous tubercles situated on various parts of the buccal mucous membrane, as the tongue, lips, palate, and tonsils. These tubercles are of a whitish colour, and may be seen also on the skin, in the form of pale, soft little cushions, bedewed with mucus; the skin surrounding each tubercle appearing puckered around its margin. Such tubercles—condylomata—are commonly found in secondary syphilis, grouped around the anus or on the scrotum; also, fretting along the margin of the external labia in the female; perhaps on the perineum, inner aspect of the thighs, and on the groins. Sometimes these tubercles occur in the axillas (E. Wilson) ; and, in fact, wherever ordinary tubercles are warm and moist, they frequently become mucous tubercles, skin readily assuming the appearance of mucous membrane. But mucous tubercles are not necessarily syphilitic. Wilson notices the transition of roseola into lichen, of the roseola eruption into such tubercles, and that the conversion of lichen into them is by no means uncommon; yet roseola and lichen are not necessarily syphilitic erup- tions. Ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane, that of the hard and soft palate, of the pharynx opposite the mouth, and of the larynx, is liable to occur in secondary syphilis. These ulcerations are frequently ac- companied with caries of the nasal bones, of the hard palate, even of the vertebras behind the pharynx, and necrosis of the laryngeal cartilages. The breath and discharges are singularly foetid. Is any such ulceration peculiar to secondary syphilis ? Colles acknowledges his inability to determine whether an ulcer in the nose be venereal or not. The appearances of scrofulous ozsena closely resemble those of venereal ozaena. Colles describes an ulcerated opening situated on the septum nasi, about a quarter of an inch from its anterior extremity, this ulcer being uniformly circular, and as large as the surface of a split pea; but he adds that a similar aperture may be found in persons who certainly never had any venereal affection, and that it may remain for years, at least for eight or ten years, in cases under observation. Extensive ulceration of the pharynx, as well as ulceration of the nasal raucous membrane and caries of the nasal bones, were noticed by Carmichael to be frequently associated with the primary phagedtenic ulcer, but that similar ulceration of the pharynx arises in constitutional conditions assuredly not venereal. Chronic laryngitis, and ulceration