ANEURISM OP ABDOMINAli AORTA AND ILIAC ARTERIES. 507 tumour; while oedema of the limb is occasioned by pressure on the vena cava, common or external iliac vein. Diagnosis.—Other tumours may give rise to apalogous symptoms. Internal abscess, pulsating perhaps in connection with the aorta or iliac arteries, must be remembered as an occasional source of serious error in diagnosis. The distinction between abdominal or pelvic aneurism and pulsatile tumours of hone is most difficult. The following characters seem to be generally distinctive, though, seldom or never present collectively. In pulsatile tumours of bone : (I) the bruit is less marked or absent; (2) the pulsation is more sudden, less heaving and expansive, and equally forcible whether the tumour be large or small; while in aneurism, the force of pulsation is proportionate to the size of the tumour; (3) the bone connected with a pulsatile tumour is expanded, thus presenting a considerable osseous enlargement around the seat of disease—e.g., the ilium on either side of a tumour developed in it; an aneurism simply eating an aperture, the margin of which may be felt if the tumour can be made to collapse. Osseous swelling determined the diagnosis of a pulsatile tumonr of the ilium, in St. George's Hospital; the tumour projecting at the sacro- sciatic foramen and simulating aneurism of the gluteal artery. (Mus. II. 23). In a case recorded by Mr. Stanley, a plate of bone was found in the walls of the tumour. (4) Pulsatile tumour of bone is very commonly cancerous, and accompanied therefore with other evidence of this disease. The seat of abdominal or pelvic aneurism—i.e., the particular artery affected—will obviously be an important consideration in relation to treatment by any operative proceeding. Treatment.—Compression of the artery above the anenrism is prac- ticable only in very thin persons, and those who can bear prolonged compression of the aorta against the vertebral column. It can be effected, instrumentaUy, by means of a pad-compressor, or by digital pressure. Ligature of the Abdominal Aorta.—This desperate operation has been practised in seven cases. By Sir A. Cooper, in 1817; and subse- quently by James, of Exeter; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope; by Monteiro, at Rio Janeiro ; by South; by Stokes, of Dublin, 1869; and by P. H. Watson, of Edinburgh, 1869. In Mr. Stokes's case, temporary deligation or modified acupressure was applied, by means of Mr. Porter's instrument. In the last case, by Dr. Watson, the common iliac artery had been tied, nine weeks previously, with an antiseptic ' catgut ligature. Secondary hgemorrhage ensued, the arteries being * diseased, and the aorta was ligatured with a common silk ligature, about half an inch above the bifurcation. The external and internal iliacs on the affected side were also tied. All the cases were fatal, and i as the result of the operation; the first case dying in 40 hours; the : second, in the evening of the operation day ; the third, in 23 hours ; j the fourth, on the tenth day ; the fifth, in 43 hours; the sixth, in 12 I hours ; and the seventh, in 65 hours. Such having been the unexceptional fatality of this operation, the I particulars of the cases themselves are comparatively unimportant. Sir • A. Cooper's case was an aneurism of the left common iliac artery and ' some portion of the vessel below. Mr. James's case was inguinal 1 aneurism, for which he had previously performed the distal operation.