193 DEGENERATIONS. Fig. 72. f i, connection in over-fed prize cattle,* and thence the fallacy of the [, principle of the English system of fattening cattle. The blood-vessels are prone to fatty degeneration, which is then known by the name of atheroma. The larger arteries are not unfrequently beset with flattened and ! slightly elevated patches on their inner surface, but underneath the thin lining membrane. This atheromatous matter is yellowish, opaque, ■ of cheesy consistence, yet friable ; and it consists of oil-particles with 1 crystals of cholesterine (Fig. 72. G-ulliver), which partially occupy the place of the middle muscular coat. Eventually, a further deposit ensues, • consisting of mineral salts—probably phosphate and carbonate of lime, by which the atheromatous matter be- ■ comes hard and brittle, and the patches assume the character of calcareous or bony plates, but with a very imperfect imitation only of the structure of bone. The inner lining membrane may then give way, and the degenerate portion of artery having lost its elasticity, is disposed to yield to the pulsating throbs of the arterial wave-current, and expand into an. aneurism. This series of degenerate transformations is especially apt to occur in some portion of the arch of the aorta; and in one remark- able case of aneurism of the transverse aorta, which I examined for my colleague, Dr. Cockle,J a no less remarkable condition co-existed: —the whole thoracic aorta was converted into a continued series of bony plates, forming a bony tube, which condition terminated abruptly at the aortic aperture in the diaphragm. The histological characters of fatty and calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries were discovered by Mr. Gul- liver ; § but the smaller blood-vessels, arteries, veins, and capUlaries are also liable to a certain transformationrespect- ing which two opposite views are held. The smaller blood-vessels (Fig. 73) may become studded with fatty gra- nnies, at first thinly and irregularly scattered, subsequently more thick set; or the oil-particles may aggregate into patches, sometimes oval or round, gene- rally of an irregular shape; and these aggregated granules are apt to coalesce into drops of oil. • " Evil Results of Overfeeding Cattle." 1857. t Fatty particles, oil-drops, and granule-cells, with crystals of cholesterine; from broken-down atheroma of an artery. (Bennett.) X Case read before Med. Soc. Lond., 1862. § " Med. Chir. Trans.," vol. xxvi. p. 86. II Fatty degeneration of blood-vessels, illustrated by the cerebral vessels of an aged individual who died of apoplexy .— a, ultimate capil.'ary ; h, larger vessel; c, ^ma,ll artery, with fatty particles scattered over its surface. (Wedl.) 0 Fig. 73.