273 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. period,—as early as four or five days after the sexual intercourse; and, as applied within only a few hours after the development of chancre, it has failed to avert the constitutional disease. In a case by Diday, the chancre having appeared a month after intercourse, abortive treatment was tried within six hours; the sore healed in three days, yet secondary symptoms supervened in three weeks. The reputed efficacy of abortive treatment, relative to chancre, is also denied by Professor Bumstead and Mr. H. Lee, and it is now generally discredited. Former cases of supposed success were probably those of the locally contagious, soft suppurating nicer. (2.) Chancroid, the Local Contagious Ulcer.—The period for the production of this ulcer after contagion is of short duration; from two to four days, or within a week. Preventive cauterization must, therefore, be had recourse to within that time. Subsequently, how- ever, the same treatment is available to prevent the propagation of chancroid; and for the destruction of bubo, which becoming a sup- purating ulcer, has the same contagious character. Cauterization, to be effective, must be, not a slight superficial application, which only destroys the surface of the ulcer, but cauteriza- tion, deep, broad, and destructive. We are dealing not merely with a poisoned wound, but a reproductive poisoned wound. The escharotics most reliable are therefore the mineral acids, sulphuric and nitric, chloride of zinc, potash and lime combined in the form of Vienna paste, pernitrate of mercury, and the actual cautery. Nitrate of silver has the dangerous reputation of being sufficiently caustic, because some chancroid sores heal after its application. Of the other agents, sulphuric acid, mixed with finely powered charcoal—the carbo-sulphuric paste, as originally employed by Ricord—is a very effectual caustic. Chloride of zinc and flour, in equal parts, forming Canquoin's paste, is also very serviceable, and was first advocated by RoUett and Diday. Either of these caustics may be used with a glass-rod, or a glazed crockery spatula. The caustic must be applied over the whole sore and around, so as to include the infested peripheral zone of tissue beyond it. The effect of cauterization should be limited within due bounds, if necessary, by means of some antidote; as a solution of carbonate of potash, after an acid caustic, or an acid, such as vinegar, to restrain an alkaline caustic. But the caustic or paste may be left on the ulcer, where with the slough it forms an adherent scab, and the sore heals underneath. Or, where a caustic paste has done its work, in a period of about two hours, it may then be removed, and water- dressing or dry lint substituted, the latter being preferable; thus simply to protect the surface from the risk of contact with any adjoin- ing chancroidal ulcer. Destructive cauterization is impracticable, observes Professor Bum-, stead, when the chancroid cannot be fully exposed; as in consequence of phimosis, or concealment within the urethra, os uteri, or other inaccessible situations. It is inadmissible with regard to ulcers situated directly over the urethra, either in the male or female, owing to the risk of opening this passage ; so also in chancroids of the deeper portions of the vagina, where the walls are in contact with the bladder, rectum, or peritoneum; in sores upon the margin of the urinary meatus, lest cicatricial structure should result; lastly, wherever the presence of other ulcers in the neighbourhood, which cannot be sub-