GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 196 Cartilage is prone to true fatty degeneration ; oil-particles, and by coalesceqce, oil-drops, substituting the contents of tlie cartilage-cells; during which transformation the nucleus vanishes. Oil-particles may likewise beset the intercellular hyaline basis ; which, together with the cell-contents, acquire a marked opacity. "Arcus senilis " consists of oil-particles in the substance of the cornea, near the iris, forming a marginal ring round it. This fatty degeneration was discovered and originally described by Mr. E. Canton.* Its significance extends far beyond the organ of vision, whose function remains unimpaired ; for, unless consequent on in- flammation of the eyeball, arcus senilis is the pathologico-anatomical indication of many other and most important co-existing fatty de- generations,—of the ophthalmic artery, of the muscles attached to the eyeball, of the heart; and, in fact, a degenerative tendency throughout the body. Thus, a well-marked arcus, in both eyes, is the surest external and visible sigu, during life, of internal and unseen fatty and other degenerate conditions of organs, discovered after dea,th. Arcus senilis was present in about ^ of the cases in which Dr. C. J. B. Williams had reason to infer the existence of fatty de- generation of the heart. And although commonly seen, as the term implies, only in advanced life, the arcus in earlier years is, apart from local disease of the eyeball, a sure indication of premature old age. The lens is sometimes transformed into fat (Dalrymple, Lebert), con- stituting soft cataract. New Products—i.e., false tissues, deposits or exudations, and growths—are by no means exempt. A pleuritic false membrane, for example, may be converted into fatty matter. Of deposits, pus-cells are especially prone to fatty transformation of their contents, forming granule-cells; tubercle-corpuscles disintegrate, in the softening of tubercle. Among growths, cancer is apt to become studded through- out its substance with oil-particles, free, and in the cells, which are then no longer distinguishable as "cancer-cells." Eventually the cell-walls disappear, and the whole or portion of the growth which has thus degenerated, becomes a confused mass of fatty matter, with the remnants of cells. It is worthy of note, that the fatty matter may appear in yellow masses, not unlike softened or yellow tubercle, and. that this resemblance explains some instances of the so-called co-exist- ing admixture of tubercle with cancer. (2.) Pigmentary is akin to fatty degeneration ; the material depo- sited in either case being essentially carbonaceous; in the one, oil- particles or drops ; in the other, pigment-particles or granule-masses of pigment: but the origin of this pigment-matter is different in different cases; and its pathological significance is therefore equally diverse. Pigment-matter may represent the colouring matter of the blood, or of the bile ; and these being distinct sources, refer to morbid con- ditions of origin, as distinct; but the particular colour of the pig- ment deposit—commonly black, sometimes red, brown, green, or yellow—does not enable us to determine with precision the question of origin. . . Carbonaceous matter introduced into the body, and deposited m * "Observations on Arcus Senilis," Lancet, 1850-51.