DEGENERATIONS. 195 bronchi (Bennett) ; * in tlie cells of the liver—hepatic cells—consti- tuting fattj degeneration of that organ; in the shut sacs of vascular glands, as those of the spleen (Bennett) ; in the pancreas (0. J. B. Williams) ; f in the kidneys, as hirst shown bj Bowman ; and generally in the ducts of all glands which are lined with epithelium. The stomach, intestine, and urinary bladder, are probably not exempt; their fatty degeneration being a further illustration of this process, chiefly as regards organic muscular hbres. By a similar transformation of the uterine substance after parturition, this organ regains its former dimensions, or nearly so. The placenta often passes into fatty degene- ration—so named by Dr. Barnes, and originally figured by Dr. J. H. Bennett, in 1844,J who regards the fatty molecules and granule-cells, not as produced hj a transformation of the placental tissue, but of exudation-matter, or by that of extravasated blood. " The yellowish or fawn-coloured deposits may be infiltrated throughout the tissue of the placenta over a greater or less space, or they may occur in isolated spots forming nodules. They are generally somewhat indurated, and give rise to the idea that they are coagulated fibrin. I (Dr. Bennett) have frequently examined them, and traced all the changes interme- diate between a coagulated exudation, or extravasation of blood, and the ultimate conversion of the foreign matter into a mass of molecules filling up the intervascular spaces. Similar observations have been more recently made by Drs. Hanfield Jones § and Cowan. || In many cases the fatty material may be seen forming a layer separate from the vessel, and inside the limitary membrane of the villus."^ Bones are liable to fatty degeneration of their texture ; a condition corresponding to the "moUities ossium" of most English authors. The characteristic properties of the osseous texture in this state are— its softness and brittleness, pale yellow colour, oily greasiness, and lightness; the texture being that of a spongy bone deprived of its earth, and soaked in soft fat, while the original size and shape of the bone remain unaltered. Hence the name—Eccentric Atrophy of Bone —proposed by Mr. Curling, as suggesting one of the most striking characters of this transformation. Oil, not fat-cells, fills the cancelli, and is even found in the lacunge and canaliculi (Yirchow). Combined .with this oil, Bennett describes numerous cells, each of which varies in. size from T2V0 to of an inch in diameter, and contains a round nucleus, also varying much in size, and occasionally showing various stages of division and of endogenous development. The production of this cell—as in most of the so-called fatty degenerations of tex- ture, according to the same observer—is attributed to an exudation from the blood-vessels, mingled with more or less of the coloured corpuscles, in which new cells are developed, combined with fatty transformations of the albuminous and fibrinous materials ; thus dif- fering from the structural condition of bone, known as " rachitis," which, although also accompanied with softening, is regarded as arrested development of bone, with increased growth of cartilaere- cells (Kolliker). * 0/). cit, p. 234. t " Principles of Medicine," p. 448. X " Treatise on Inflammation," plate, Fig. 10. § "British and Foreign Med. Chir. Rev.," vol. ii. p. 354. II "Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal," April, IS.H. IT " Principles and Practice of Mediciue," 1859, p. 238.