GENEKAL rATIIOLOGY AND SURGERY. 02 examinations of the blood in hectic are wanting to confirm this view; meanwhile it is a significant fact, that the urine deposits lithates during the decline of each hectic paroxysm, ° This interpretation of hectic indicates the relationship existing between the progress of suppuration and itself. If hectic arises from absorption of disorganized textures, then it must increase with the progressive formation of pus : not that pus, in such case, itself infects, but because its formation necessarily implies the concurrent and corresponding absorption of the encompassing textures, and by thus poisoning the blood, induces hectic fever. Sup- puration and hectic are, therefore, related indirectly, as cause and eliect; and moreover, the quantity of pus accumulating or discharged, actually becomes a fair measure of the degree of hectic. Certain acknowledged principles of preventive treatment admit of explanation by the theory I have advanced. Absorption of the textures is checked when the progressive accumulation of pus is prevented; hence, the importance of making an early, free, and dependent opening, Avhich also allows any dehris of the tissues to escape. Again, absorp- tion of disorganized tissiies is altogether prevented by removing them; hence, the necessity for amputation where their destruction is exten- sive and beyond hope of recovery to a healthy condition. Amputation under these circumstances is often followed by surprisingly beneficial results. As Hunter originally observed, a hectic pulse at 120 has been known to sink to 90 in a few hours after removal of the hectic cause. Persons have been known to sleep soundly the first night afterwards who had not slept tolerably for several preceding weeks. Cold sweats have stopped immediately, as well as those called colli- quative. Purging has immediately ceased, and the urine begun to drop its sediment. All these facts and considerations harmonize with the theory, that hectic fever arises from absorption of disorganized tissues. Pus itself sometimes, apparently, enters the circulation as pus; but this pro- duces very different constitutional symptoms and results; those of pycemia, followed by secondary abscesses. The circumstances under which purulent infection arises will be noticed more particularly in connection with that subject. Respecting the symptoms, it may be here summarily stated, that they are still those of a blood-poison, and of a typhoid character, but the exhaustion induced is more speedy, and more overwhelming,—more typhoid; and the poison is either not eliminated at all, or insufl&cient to allow of marked inter- missions,—the fever is less intermittent, or more continued, than hectic. (3.) Destruction of texture, as the result of inflammation, comprises mortification and ulceration. (See Terminations, p. 73.) Mortifica- tion, or the death of a part, receives different names according to the partial and recoverable, or total and irrecoverable, loss of vitality in the part affected; the one condition being named gangrene, the other sphacelus. Both these terms refer to death of the soft textures, and wlien this takes place to a limited extent and is accompanied with ulcerative separation from the living textui-es, it is termed slough,^ and the process, a sloughing of the part; when bone is affected, mortifica- tion is called necrosis, and the dead portion, a sequestrum, and its separation, exfoliation. This latter term is sometimes restricted to the