88 GENKRAL I'ATHOLOGY AND RURGKRY. dorsal or lumbar vertebra?, abscess may present directly backwards, or forwards into the thorax or abdomen; or it may extend downwards— through the aortic opening in the diaphragm, in the case of dorsal abscess—and forwards, between the abdominal muscles, to some point in front of the abdomen; or to the external abdominal ring; or, guided, apparently, by the obturator vessels and nerve, to the obturator fora- men, it points in the upper part of the thigh ; or within the sheath of the psoas muscle to the upper part of the thigh, more externally, it appears as psoas abscess. Passing thence lower down, dorsal or lumbar abscess may point in the popliteal space, the calf, or even as low down as the ankle; or extending, from its seat of origin, downwards, and inwards, into the pelvis, the abscess may point at the side of the vagina, rectum, or sacro-sciatic foramen, or escaping thence, burrow externally befewecn the bone and gluteal muscles, so as to present in the gluteal region. Abscess by translation is further illustrated, by extension from the seat of origin in the shoulder joint to the elbow ; or from the hip to the knee. In the diagnosis of abscess by translation, any such extended collection of matter must not be confounded with metastatic or secondary abscess, consequent on pyemic infection. The Signs of translated abscess are: a fluid, fluctuating swelling, like that of an ordinary abscess ; but its concomitant redness, heat, and pain, are absent. Some degree of inflammation may ensue, from the weight of pus on the most dependent part of the abscess, and pain also may be experienced, owing to pressure on nerves in the neighbourhood. Fistula and Sinus.—The pathology of sinus and fistula has a wider significance than in relation only to abseess; for these passages may result from iilceration and sloughing, or from the imperfect healing of wounds. Generally, all these modes of formation depend on some local source of irritation; as a piece of dead bone, the escape of some secretion, as urine or feculent matter, and less frequently, bile, gastric juice, or saliva ; and, the disturbing action of muscles in the neigh- bourhood of the part affected. Thus may be produced fistula in connection with necrosis or caries ; perineal fistula, and vesico-vaginal fistula; fistula in ano; biliary, gastric, and salivaxy fistulse ; fistula from the healing of wounds in the limbs. Sometimes, two of the causes referred to may concur in producing fistula ; as fistula in ano, resulting from abscess, caused by the escape of some feculent matter into the cellular texture adjoining the anus, and the closure of the abscess being prevented by the disturbing action of the sphincter ani muscle. The walls of a fistula or sinus are lined with a more or less com- plete pyogenic membrane, secreting an unhealthy purulent fluid, in varying quantity, mixed perhaps with some other secretion. Accord- ing to their indisposition to heal, these passages are more or less hard —callous, as it is termed, Avith condensation of the surrounding cellular texture. On introducing a probe up such a passage, it is found to be but slightly sensitive, or ready to bleed. An opposite state may be met with; the passage feeling soft or spongy, acutely tender, and bleeding freely; so that even under gentle pressure, the probe may easily penetrate the wall of the passage, and get out of the track. The orifices of a complete fistula are two—an external or integu- mental, and an internal, leading into an abscess, or into some mucous canal or cavity, as the urethra or the rectum. Sometimes both orifices may be said to be internal, as in vesico-vaginal fistula. An incom-