442 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. may tlins become slowly converted into the opposite deformity—talipes valgus. Hence also the newly united mnscle or tendon should be exer- cised very gradually and cautiously. (2.) Imiyerfect and non-union of Tendon.—Various causes lead to these results. Imperfect union of the tendo-Achillis, for example, may arise from some constitutional defect in the reparative powers of the individual, or from depressed vital power in the limb, owing to paralysis. In- judicious_ after-treatment may be followed by the same result; as from not sustaining the temperature of the limb, especially in paralytic cases during very cold weather; from too early and too rapid mechanical extension ; or too early exercise of the part. iV^on-union is specially apt to arise when tendons are situated in dense tubular sheaths ; the divided ends of tendon becoming adherent to the inner surface of the sheath, but not having any direct connec- tion with each other. Treatment.—Any of the causes of imperfect, or non-union, must be avoided or corrected. With respect to mechanical extension, after operations for deformity; Mr. Adams does not consider it necessary to make extension gradually, for the pui-pose of stretching the new tendon, the requisite length of which should be obtained during the period occupied in its formation, ordinarily two or three weeks; but gradual extension is necessary, either to overcome ligamentous resist- ance, or to prevent a too rapid and excessive separation of the divided ends, and thus regulate the length of new tendon produced. The liability to non-union may be avoided, by never dividing a tendon in its course through the denser portions of its sheath, and when the operation is performed near to such parts, extension should be con- ducted very gradually. Certain operations have been practised to induce the reparation of an ununited tendon. Paring the ends and joining them by suture will seldom prove satisfactory. Subcutaneous puncture, as for ununited fracture, has proved successful in some cases. Displacement of Tendon may occur. The tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle occasionally slips out of its groove, with instant pain and lameness. The long tendon of the biceps flexor cubiti is sometimes tilted out of its groove. Such mishaps generally rectify themselves, the tendon slipping in again; or replacement can be readily accom- plished by a little manipulation. Inflammation of Muscle.—Myositis.—Rare as an idiopathic, and a primary disease, the muscles may be involved by the extension of in- flammation from adjoining structures. Rheumatic inflammation of the muscles is probably of this kind, affecting primarily the investing aponeuroses. Syphilitic inflammatory indurations of muscle are also said to occur. Pyeemic abscesses occasionally form in the muscles. The interstitial cellular tissue is infiltrated with purulent matter, while the muscular fibres are disintegrated, and disappear, as abscess forms. I once saw a notable instance of inflammatory extension ; peritonitis had induced inflammation of the abdominal recti muscles, which, after death, presented a quagmire of slough and pus. Immediately behind the sheath of these muscles, and near the umbilicus, lay the vermiform appendix of the Cfecum, which contained a bean. It was, apparently, a grand effort of Nature to discharge this impacted foreign body.