INFLAMMATION. 49 affected will further apportion the degree of pain. As swelling" ensues from effusion, the same conditions which represent the degree of tension, will also measure the intensity of the pain. Thus a more solid, and therefore circumscribed effusion of coagulable lymph, underneath an unyielding texture, such as a fibrous membrane, e.g., the fascia- lata, or a fluid similarly circumstanced, as an abscess in the substance of bone, are aggravating conditions inducing the most severe and unremitting pain; while a fluid, serous effusion into a loose texture such as the cellular tissue, say of the armpit, allows of a considerable accumulation without much pain, and will then be more tolerable. Pain is also attributed to structural change in the nerve-fibrils of the inflamed part. The character as well as the degree of pain accompanying inflamma- tion, is equally diversified. A burning pain in erysipelas, whence the popular name of this disease—St. Anthony's fire; a scalding pain in inflammation of the rectum, during evacuation of the foeces. Chronic rheumatism and lumbago are attended with the dull aching pain of inflamed fibrous and muscular tissues; gout, with a wrenching pain ; abscess in bone, with an unremitting burrowing pain; inflammation of the dental periosteum, or periodontitis, with a throbbing pain. In other parts this character of pain is the known forerunner of suppura- tion. Parts endowed with but little sensibility in health, generally become acutely sensible when inflamed ; as fibrous textures and bone, including the teeth; the intestinal canal in enteritis, the pleura and peritoneum respectively, when inflamed. Parenchymatous organs like- wise acquire exalted sensibility, as manifested by the heavy, oppressive pain of pneumonia. Organs of special sense are for a time quickened by inflammation, and convey their own sensations but too keenly. The ear becomes too susceptible of sound, and iritis begets intolerance of light. The pain arising from inflammation may extend to parts distant, but continuous with the seat of origin; as from a whitlow, the pain passes up the finger and hand, thence perhaps up the forearm to the shoulder. Ophthalmic pain may involve the brow. Beflected pains in distant parts are not uncommon symptoms of in- flammation. Pain in the inner side of the knee may emanate from inflammation of the hip-joint; in the glans penis, from cystitis; in the testicle, from nephritis ; under the right shoulder-blade, from hepatitis ; and under the left scapula, from gastritis. Reflex motions are often excited in like manner : sneezing, by catarrh ; coughing, by bronchitis and pneumonia; vomiting, by gastritis; and (reflex?) micturition, by cystitis. The diagnostic value of pain is comparatively little. The pain of Inflammation being chiefly dae to swelling, is scarcely an earlier sign. It is also the most inexact sign ; pain may he absent in true inflamma- tion, and present without; and is rather a measure of the kind of swelling than of the degree of inflximmation. By itself, therefore, pain has little diagnostic importance. (5.) The function of the oi'gan or texture affected, undergoes certain changes, which constitute additional local symptoms of inflammation. They may be described in general terms, as exaltation of function, followed by its depression, and various perversions of function having an intermediate character. Thus, with inflammation of the brain ; delirium, increased sensibility, and convulsions, are succeeded by stupor