ANEURISM. 461 nally, or in both directions, tlie career o£ such aneurism tends inevitably to further and fatal haemorrhage. Duration of Aneurism.—This would seem to be regulated chiefly by the force of the circulation, the proximity of the aneurism, to the heart, the size of the neck of the sac, and its direction relatively to the current of blood, and by the coagulating power of. the blood. Rest, and the mode of treatment, will further affect the duration of aneurism. But the course of all aneurisms is generally slow; extending to a few months, a year, or possibly several yeai's. In one extreme case of femoral aneurism recorded by Hodgson, the period of its duration was twenty years. Prognosis. — The prognosis of Aneurism should be determined mainly by a due consideration of the persistency, or otherwise, of its causes. Degeneration of structure, affecting the coats of an artery, implies the loss of that adequate resistance and resiliency to the current of blood, which having given rise to Aneurism will also perpetuate it. The extent to which degeneration usually affects the arterial system, more than one artery being the seat of this destructive change, is an additionally unfavourable consideration. Hence, a single idio- pathic aneurism always suggests a suspicious prognosis. Traumatic Aneurism suggests an unfavourable prognosis, only in proportion as the aneurismal swelling is progressive. The conditions which mainly regulate the duration of aneurism are obviously important, as persistent causes in regulating its dilatation and progress. In so far as these conditions are discoverable during life, their consideration will com- plete the prognosis. Special aneurisms are subject to particular conditions which determine the Surgeon's judgment respecting their course and issue, as in the case of internal aneurisms. Treatment.—Remedial measures—hygienic, medicinal, and opera- tive—should be entirely responsive to the natural or spontaneous cure of aneurism. The ordinary mode in which natural cure takes place is by retardation of the current of blood through the aneurismal artery, sufficiently to induce coagulation and the deposition of lami- nated fibrine within the sac. i. As conducive to this end, the primary indication of treatment is rest, prolonged rest, of mind and body. Position is an important adjunct, by taking off the force of the arterial current. The recumbent position will be most suitable for aneurism in any part of the body, the patient not being allowed to raise himself once from the bed during a course of many weeks. Gradual starvation and depletion, to diminish the quantity of blood in circulation, and to reduce the force of the heart's action, have some remedial influence ; but only within judicious hmitations. The pulse should be maintained a little above 60, and at an equable rate. Farinaceous, rather than animal food, a sparing proportion of liquids to the smallest quantity which can be tolerated, and total abstinence, if possible, from stimulants ; such are the chief features of the diet to be observed. That which was recommended by BelUngham answers to this description. It consisted of two ounces of bread-and-butter for breakfast, two ounces of bread and the same quantity of meat for dinner, and two ounces of bread for supper, with a -little milk and water, occasionally, sipped in small quantities. Depletion by watery purgatives is preferable to blood-letting ; and should the latter be resorted to, it is, in Sir Thomas Watson's iudo-.