24 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 1700 cubic feet. Military Hospitals, in general, have not been arranged on the same liberal scale; 800, 700, or even 300 cubic feet of air for each patient having been deemed sufficient, the ai-my regulations thus being a provision for overcrowding. But, more recently, this hygienic defect has been reformed. Thus, in the Herbert Hospital at Woolwich, the allotment of space per bed is 1200 or 1400 cubic feet. A surgical ward for twenty patients should measure 80 feet long by 25 feet wide, and 16 feet in height; thus allowing about 1600 cubic feet per bed. Each bed or patient should have a surface area not less than 8 feet wide and 12 feet long; cubic space over the bed would be an in- sufficient provision. Consequently, the arrangement of beds should allow at least three feet between each on either side, and 12 feet between foot and foot. In the event of infectious disease, further isolation of each patient will be advisable, and either or both adjoining beds should be left unoccupied. Atmospheric impurity, whether pro- ceeding from the person or the excretions, diminishes as the square of the distance. In open localities, or in the country, less than the average cubic space per patient is requisite than in towns and crowded districts. Hence, the advantage of an Hospital built in detached sections, as New St. Thomas's, and of Cottage Hospitals; also the greater comparative salubrity of huts or tents in the MiUtary Hospital system,—an advantage which I experienced with regard to patients in the wooden huts on the heights of Balaklava above the sea, and which was also strikingly exhibited in the Franco-Prussian War. In private practice, the aerial conditions of our London squares are more favour- able than in narrow old streets; while in poor districts, the dense neighbourhood, small and ill-ventilated rooms, overcrowded and badly drained tenements, represent the consummation of unfavourable atmospheric conditions. Sunlight has a decidedly beneficial influence, which should not be overlooked, in relation to the general health, and thence to recovery after surgical operations; excepting when the supervention of inflam- matory fever would indicate the propriety of excluding any source of disquietude, or, again, after ophthalmic operations, where the stimu- lating action of light would be directly injurious to the eye. The sanitary influence of solar light is referable not only to the light and heat, but also to the chemical rays which are known to be associated; and this compound emanation has a potent action on all vitality. In the vegetable kingdom, the blanched appearance of plants reared in dark localities, contrasts sadly with the brilliant tints of flowering plants grown under sunshine; and among animals, similar peculiarities with regard to colour are observable in different localities or climates, from the white polar bear of northern latitudes, to the gay plumage of birds in tropical countries. In the human species, colour is developed by solar light, as shown by the inhabitants of different climes, and by the influence of each returning summer; but the pallid appearance of the artizan in dark workshops, or of office-clerks, compared with the ruddy brown hue of the countryman, presents not only a striking con- trast of apparent health,—the ansemic and enfeebled state of the one is no less unfavourable for surgical operations. This aneemic condition is due, partly at least, to the habitual absence of sunlight in certam occupations. The production of pigmentary matter, whether in the cuticle, or as the colouring matter, hasmatiu, of the red corpuscles of