633 FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. is generally tlie occasion of fracture, and of the condyles in particular. Separation of the articular epiphysis, or of either condyloid epiphysis, is liable to occur only in infancy or childhood. Muscular action has been said to produce condyloid fracture occasionally, especially of the internal condyle, to which the powerful flexor muscles are attached. Treatment.—The swelling which speedily ensues in these fractures must be subdued, by placing the arm at rest on a pillow, and applying cold lotions, or irrigation. A bottle containing ice-cold water or lotion, with a skein of cotton in the fluid, and hanging out of the neck, forms a simple and effective contrivance. Suspended over the elbow, a con- stant dropping irrigation can thus be maintained. Any displacement having been corrected, the bones are best kept in position by angular splints, which well support the lower end of the humerus, and the upper part of the forearm, itself sup- ported in a sling ; and thus the patient is allowed to move about. (Fig. 228.) At the end of a month or so, passive motion of the elbow-joint may be advis- able, as a precaution against any tendency to anchylosis. Osseous union generally takes place in all these fractures,— supra-condyloid and condyloid. After frac- ture above the condyles some amount of shortening—under an inch— and consequent deformity are apt to result, even with the most careful management. Condyloid fracture I have known to result in a twisting displacement, forwards or backwards, according to the direction of muscular action. Paralysis is apt to occur in connection with fracture of the shaft of the humerus, involving the musculo-spiral nerve as it turns in the groove, downwards and outwards on the posterior aspect of the shaft. Or, if not occurring at the time of the injury, some paralytic symp- toms may result from compression of the nerve by ensheathing callus. The extent of the paralysis will depend on the situation of the nerve- lesion, as affecting different sets of muscles supplied by the musculo- spiral. Thus, when the trunk of the nerve is injured, the forearm can be only partly supinated, and there is no power of extending the hand and fingers. The position the forearm assumes is that of pronation, with the hand pendant, or a characteristic wrist-drop. This attitude is seen also in connection with lead colic, but the cause of the paralysis will be distinctive in either case. Lower down in the course of the nerve-trunk, as at the elbow-joint, fracture of the ex- ternal condyle of the humerus may implicate the posterior interosseous branch, leaving the radial branch, as the source of supply to the long supinator and long extensor muscles of the radius and the wrist. Hence some power of supination and extension of the wrist ia retained. But the fingers remain flexed. The hand having been subjected to the tonic contraction of the flexor muscles, at last becomes cramped up and crippled, into a clnh-hand; so as to resemble the