SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 464 tion of intermittent compression requisite, may be determined by its efEect in promoting coagulation and consolidation of the tumour ; the period necessary for this purpose varying considerably, from a few days to some months. In 26 successful cases, collected by Mr. J. Hutchin- son, this period ranged between 60 hours and eight months; its average duration being 19 days. I have failed in arresting the en- largement of poplitial aneurism by compression, after a trial for two months ; and then having had recourse to ligature of the femoral artery, an uninterrupted recovery has ensued in three weeks. No medicinal treatment is indispensable to the completion of the process of cure, when thus induced by compression. If, notwithstand- ing the precaution of shaving and powdering the part, pain be occa- sioned by the pad- in such, degree as to disturb sleep, then indeed opiates may be administered; but, in most cases, this inconvenience will be anticipated by proper management of the instrument. It is well to try it on gently at first, and augment the pressure by little instalments ; also to shift the pad from place to place in the course of the artery; and, as Tufnell suggested, to lighten it slightly, so that when the patient has fallen asleep, the pressure may be renewed without awakening him. This plan of treatment being a faithful imitation of the process of natural cure by retardation of the passage of blood through an aneurism, it is not surprising to find that the anatomical condition induced is the same as that resulting from the unaided process. In both cases, the aneurism is solidified and partly absorbed, leaving the artery pervious; while collateral branches proceeding from the parent trunk are enlarged, thereby contributing to maintain the circulation and nourishment of the limb below the seat of aneurism. Thus, during compression of the femoral artery, for popliteal aneurism, three arteries are observed to undergo enlarge- ment ; one passing over the centre of the tumour, another externally, over the head of the fibula, and a third internally, along the inner margin of the patella. This observation, originally due to Tufnell, is corroborated by Mr. Erichsen. The statistical results which, appear most worthy of credit, with respect to compression as practised in England, are those collated by Mr. Hutchinson from the Metropolitan and Provincial Hospitals. Of 70 cases, 46 were popliteal aneurism, and in 24 of them this treatment was successful. The remaining 22 cases had reference to the treatment by ligature of the femoral artery, as compared with compression. The experience of the Dublin Schools is far more favourable. Of 25 cases collated by Bellingham, in 1 only was the ligature subsequently resorted to. The only disqualification of instrumental compression for the treat- ment of aneurism is its impracticability in certain parts of the body. It is almost necessarily restricted to the treatment of femoral and popliteal aneurisms. Direct compression of the aneurism was formerly practised, with tbe view of opposing the expansive force of the current of blood and consequent enlargement of the sac. But pressure thus applied, not being designed to check tlie force of the current through the aneurismal portion of artery, was an unpathological mode of treatment; and, more- over, it was apt to cause inflammation and sloughing of the sac. This modification, therefore, which was first employed by Bourdelot, and