SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 736 backwards, may cause the dislocation forwards; compression of the shoulders, laterally, or a direct blow on the sternal end of the clavicle, may drive this portion of the bone backwards; and a fall on the shoulder externally, or a blow upon the top of the shoulder, may start the bone upwards upon the supra-sternal notch. Treatment.—Reduction of these three dislocations is accomplished by directing the shoulder so as to retrace the particular displacement. Forward dislocation of the sternal end of the clavicle may be over- come by drawing the shoulder backwards and outwards; in backward dislocation, similar traction of the shoulder, to even a greater extent, will be efficient; while ujoioard dislocation may be reduced by out- ward traction of the shoulder, at the same time raising the outer and depressing the inner end of the clavicle. Pressure directly on the displaced end of bone, when accessible, as in the first and last named dislocations, has comparatively little effect in aiding reduction. Trac- tion of the shoulder is best effected by using the knee as a fulcrum in the back, while an assistant places his fist as a fulcrum in the axilla; the shoulders are then bent backwards, and the elbow brought down to the side, simultaneously. To retain the bone in position, a pad over the sternal end may have some effect in dislocation/owarcZs, but a figure-of-eight bandage applied to the shoulders will more effectually prevent the recurrence of displace- ment in either of the th-ee directions of dislocation, the arm being drawn back and fixed to the side. Some per- manent displacement and deformity are almost inevitable; the patient, however, recovering a good use of the arm. Indeed, it is a consola- tion to know that even when reduction has not been accomplished or maintained, almost the same good result has ensued. Compound dislocation occurred in one instance of dislocation backwards, by direct violence— a blow with a pick-axe. (Hamilton.) (2.) The scapular end of the Clavicle may be dislocated—upwards, upon the upper surface of the acromion (Fig. 341); or downwards, under the acromion, or under the coracoid process. The first-named dislocation is the most frequent, and indeed the most common, of all dislocations of the clavicle; the second very i^are, only three cases having been recorded of dislocation under the acromion, and six under the coracoid process. The acromio-clavlcular ligaments are torn in the dislocation upwards ; and also the coraco-clavicular and coraco-acromioii ligaments in dislocation downwards. Signs.—Dislocation upwards is easily recognized by the projection of the outer or scapular end of the clavicle, and which is more easily felt on tracing the spine of the scapula up to the acromio-clavicular articulation. Some depression and flatness of the shoulder will also be perceptible. Dislocation downwards is recognized, and distinguished, by the opposite signs; a marked depression, in particular, correspond- ing to the usual situation of the outer end of the clavicle. DoAvnward dislocation, under the coracoid process, is more particularly characterized by a corresponding projection of the acromion and coracoid process, * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 2. Dislocation of the acromial end of the clavicle on the acromion or spine of the scapula, with fracture of the acromion.