SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 580 travasation of blood, especially in fracture from direct violence • or some inflammatory redness may have supervened. Shortening of the Itmb, m some degree, takes place wlien one of the long bones, as in either limb, is broken (Fig. 188); and this resulting from the involuntary contraction of the muscles acting on the lower fragment, it takes place invariably, excepting under circumstances to be presently mentioned. The direction in which the lower fragment is thus drawn is more or less upwards, and hence the shortening of the limb; but the dis- placement is determined by the linear action of the muscles; either in the resultant _ direction of their combined action in different lines, or m the direction of the stronger force of two antagonistic orders of muscles—the flexor muscles overcoming the extensors in either limb. Thus, in fracture of the humerus, betwixt Fig. 188.* its head and the insertion of the pectoralis major; this muscle chiefly, with the latis- simus dorsi and teres major muscles, draws the lower portion of bone upwards, and inwards towards the thorax. With frac- ture of the femur in its middle third, the adductor muscles draw the lower portion upwards, and inwards behind the upper third of the femur; the approximation of the attachments of the adductors pro- ducing a certain fulness in the appearance of the upper part of the thigh, and which is more conspicuous by the shortening of the limb as compared with its fellow. When both bones of the leg are broken, the lower portions of the tibia and fibula are drawn upwards, and behind the upper fragments, by the action of the gastroc- nemius and soleus as flexor muscles. Shortening of the forearm, in the opposite direction, may occur, but in a lesser de- gree, with fracture of the radius and ulna. Pain, and inability to use the limb, or broken bone, are functional symptoms of Fracture; but of equivocal value in aid of diagnosis. Diagnosis.—The pain may be insignifi- cant at first, before swelling supervenes;. and the power of motion be retained in the case of impacted fracture, or where one only of two companion bones is broken, the other acting as a splint. With fracture of the- radius, in the forearm; or of the fibula, in the leg; the ulna or the tibia thus preserves some of the motions of the limb; although the- special functions of either bone may be lost. But if the functional sjonptoms of pain and loss of voluntary power be well marked, they may each arise from other causes than fracture ; as from dislocation, a bruise, or an attack of rheumatism, which thus far severally simulate- fracture. The physical signs of Fracture may, severally, be absent. Mobility, in the case of impacted fracture; crepitation, if there be- * From"Listen.