SUPPURATION OF BONE. 681 of the dead bone. A generally stimulating and tonic plan of treat- ment will be required to support life tbrougb this trying ordeal. Ohronic periosteal abscess remaining, requires no special treatment. (3.) Circumscrihed Abscess of Bone.—Always a chronic condition, this state of suppuration differs also from diffused suppui-ation, in its limited extent, and in being distinctly circumsci-ibed. The abscess, thus defined, is seated within the substance of a bone, usually its cancellated structure; the cavity may be lined by a dis- tinct pyogenic membrane—of which there is a rare specimen in the Museum of St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital—and the surrounding bone is more vascular than ■ natural, and much indurated. The size of this cavity is never large, probably not exceeding that of a small chestnut, and contain- ing two or three drachms of pus, greenish yellow or dark coloured. Always situated in one of the long bones, the abscess is com- monly located in its upper or lower articular extremity, and very rarely within the medullary canal of the shaft. The tibia is most frequently affected, and its upper end near the knee-joint (Fig. 296); its lower end near the inner malleolus, next in order of frequency; and among other bones, the lower end of the humerus near the elbow, and the femur, have severally been found the seat of circumscribed abscess. Sir B. Brodie first discovered and described this abscess, and pointed out its appropriate treatment; since the time of his observations, it has occasionally been met with by other Surgeons; and recently, Mr. T. Carr Jackson contributed an instructive paper with three cases bearing on the subject. In contrast with abscess of bone, a central cavity may result from atrophy; the osseous texture around being rarefied, instead of having indu- rated by interstitial deposit, and with expansion of the bone. Such was the case in the bone of a stump, after amputation (Fig. 297) ; a most in- structive illustration of this distinction. Symptoms.—Pain is at once the earliest and most significant symptom. It is of a heavy, aching, and eventually throbbing character; more severe occasionally, or perhaps periodically—generally during the night, and persistent for a considerable period—being probably of some years' duration. This pain is referred to a particular part of the bone at one extremity—in, for example, the head of the tibaa; and a point of greatest intensity can be discovered by careful palpation with the finger, where the slightest jDressure produces excruciating agony. A small and slight puft'y swelling, or induration, surrounds this spot; and the skin may be adherent to the periosteum, * St. George's Hoep. Mus. f St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 5. Fig. 296.* Fre. 297.t