773 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. * After Bigelow. (2.) Manipulation may be employed, and according to various metliods. Thus, Dr. Fountain, of Davenport, Iowa, succeeded in two cases, as follows:—The patient lying on the floor, and under the in- fluence of chloroform, " the dislocated limb was seized by the foot and knee and rotated outwards, the leg flexed and carried over the opposite knee and thigh, the heel kept well up, and the knee pressed down. This motion was continued by carrying the thigh over the sound one as high as the up23er part of the middle third, the foot being kept firmly elevated. Then the limb was carried directly upwards by elevating the knee, while the foot was held firm and steady, at the same time making gentle oscillations by the knee, when the head of the bone suddenly dropped into its socket." These manoeuvres were executed with very little force, and occupied not longer than twenty or thirty seconds. Anomalous Dislocations of the Hip-toint.—The hip-joint is liable to several irregular dislocations, the head of the femur- being variousl}^ displaced upwards or downwards. ^ (1.) In dislocation tipwards, the head of the bone may be displaced directly upwards, and be lodged between the anterior superior and anterior inferior spinous processes of the ilium—suiyra-spinous disloca- tion ; or perhaps below the inferior spinous process, at the junction of the ilium with the pubic bone—infra-simioivs dislocation; or the dis- placement may be upwards and slightly bachward's, the head of the bone lying just behind the notch between the two anterior spinous pro- cesses—anterior ohliqite dislocation, so named from the oblique direction of the limb across the opposite thigh. (a.) Supra-spinom dislocation was attended with the following signs, in a case related by Dr. Cummins (" Gay''s Hosp. Rep." vol. iii.)i It should be observed that the head of the femur—between the anterior spinous pro- -pjQ^ 3S7.* cesses—is directed inwards towards the concavity of the ilium, the neck partly occupying the notch between the processes, and the great trochanter is turned back- wards or everted. (Fig. 387.) Consequently, the limb is shortened by two or thi*ee inches, abducted and much everted, and so fixed in its position that rotation inwards is im- possible and abduction and addaction are difiicult, although a limited flexion on the pelvis can be performed. These movements cause great pain. The head of the bone may be felt as a globular tumour, beneath the anterior superior spinous process; but the trochanter has disappeared, and the hip is flattened. Reduction.—With extension by pulleys in the axis of the dislocation, the head of the bone must be lifted out of the notch, at the same time, by means of a broad bandage around the upper part of the thigh, and slung roand the neck of the Surgeon, who specially takes this part in the reduction. Then by adducting the knee to the opposite thigh, and rotating inwards, the head of the bone may slip into the acetabulum. Or, reduction may be effected, as Bigelow observes, by a manipulative