SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 237. 3. (1.) Fracture of the Lower End of the Radius.—Known as G38 The usual Signs oi Fracture are present. Deformity at the seat of fracture, corresponding to the displacement; mobility, crepitus, shorten- ing, with some alteration in the direction of the axis of the bones, or forearm below the fracture; pain, and inability to use the hand, with some loss of pronation and supination, if the radius be broken. Causes.—Indirect violence is, mostly, the occasion of fracture; as by a fall on the band. Hence the radius yields more frequently than the ulna. Direct violence may sometimes be the cause; the middle or lower portion of the shaft being more liable to be broken than the upper portion, which is protected by a considerable thickness of muscle. Treatment—The fractured ends having been adjusted, a pad should be laid along the interosseous space, to prevent any inclination of the bones inwards; as union or ossific deposit across this space would render pronation and supination imperfect or impossible. For this reason also, the forearm should not first be bandaged under the spHnts. A long splint, extending from the bend of the elbow to the fingers, is placed on the inner aspect of the forearm and supporting the hand. A corresponding splint, on the outer side, need reach only to the wrist. Both the splints should be a little broader than the arm, so that, in bandaging, the bones may not be compressed ; a roller is then applied from the fingers upward, and the forearm rested in a sling. Inflam- mation and tense swelling often supervene, leading even to gangrene, and the bandage must be regulated accordingly ; a watchful supervision of the treatment being continued for some days. Another method has been devised, and practised with success, by Dr. X. C. Scott, of the Brooklyn City Hospital, U.S. The forearm is placed in the supine position, and retained, with sufficient extension from the wrist, by means of adhesive plaster, with elastic bands; counter-extension being made from above, with the arm at a right-angle as here represented. (Fig. 237.) In twenty-five cases successful results have been obtained. This method certainly claims two advantages: the supine position prevents the risk of union taking place between the bones, across the inter- osseous space, owing to the tendency to pronation; and by the maintenance of exten- sion, the tendency to displacement upwards, by the action of the flexor muscles, is overcome. Compound Fracture of the Forearm.—Usually arising from direct violence, there may be far more extensive disorganization subcuta- neously, than appears from the comparatively uninjured integument. The question of amputation will be guided, mainly, by this considera- tion. Otherwise, operative interference should be postponed pending the natural tendency of the injury either to recovery, or to suppurative destruction or gangrene of the limb. This latter issue is far less fre- quent than in similar injury of the leg ; and secondary amputation can then be had recourse to.