607 UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. Fig. 203. to the patient's previous habits and present condition, constitute an efficacious diet; and that exercise daily in the open air proves specially beneficial. If the limb be encased in a starched bandage, and slung from the "shoulder, the patient will be enabled to move about without interrupting the consolidation of the callus. These precautionary and soliciting measures having failed, there is no alternative but to have recourse to some operative procedure. Various other manipulative proceedings have been proposed—e.g., friction, or with stimulating embroca- tions, and the application of galvanism by electro- puncture of the soft callus; but no such measure has any known direct relation to the process of ossification; nor are their results sufficiently successful to justify the further postponement of operation. The only question, therefore, is the hind of operation ■which may now be requisite. It should be remembered that a callus already exists, only in an unossified state. It would be unsurgical to undo what Nature has already so far accomplished, by any procedure of a destructive character. Acuimneture, or s-ulcutaneous section, of the carti- laginous callus has often had the desired effect of in- ducing ossification. Either operation is easily performed. The one by puncturing the callus in two or three places, with the view of starting as many centres of ossifica- tion ; for which purpose Brainard's perforator, or the Archimedean drill (Fig. 203), being more handy, may be used. The instrument is introduced through the skin and subjacent integuments, and, having pierced the callus at . one point, is reajjplied at another point, and so on, without withdrawing it from the skin. The other operation is accomplished by dividing, or at least incising, the callus, subcutaneously, with a tenotomy bistoury, or a long narrow-bladed knife. In either proceeding, care must be taken, if possible, to avoid wounding any nerve or vessel of magnitude, adjacent to the callus, and to which it may be attached; and to at once close up the puncture, or the aperture, lest the fracture become permanently compound. Obviously, however, in proportion as either operation may have this tendency, or that liabiHty, its propriety will be questionable. The late Professor Miller reported five cases of ununited fracture thus treated successfully. The operation appears to have been a com- promise between division and puncture ; the callus having been freely irritated at several points with a small tenotomy bistoury. This prac- tice was successfully imitated by Mr. G. F. Sandford, of Davenport, Iowa, in two cases; and others might be cited. (6.) Complete non-union suggests the same treatment—local and general; and also the removal of any other local cause. Thus, an inter- vening piece of dead bone, or other mechanical impediment to union, may be removed. These remedial measures not succeeding, it will bo advisable to remove the nearly lifeless and altogether ununited ends of bone. Excision is preferable to scra]ping or rasping, which, leaving the