615 ANEUKISM OF POPLITEAL ABTERY. undergone consolidation; tlius so far resembling a solid tumour. But any independent tumour can, perhaps, be lifted off, and isolated from the artery, when its pulsatile and apparently aneurismal character ceases. TIae history of the case will aid in determining the diagnosis; as, for example, with regard to chronic abscess. Causes.—Some strain in flexion or extension of the joint seems to be the usual mode of origin. Hence, popliteal aneurism occurs more fre- quently in persons accustonied to the athletic exercises of running or jumping, or who ride hard on horseback. Sailors, according to Dr. Crisp, would appear to be more subject to the disease than any other class. Men, generally, are far moi'e liable than females. Of 155 cases, in Norris's table, five only were females. The period of life most liable is between thirty and fifty. As compared with other aneurisms, popliteal aneurism is far less frequently associated with a diseased state of the arterial system, and with aneurism, consequently, in other parts of the body. Both popliteal arteries are affected with equal frequency, and occasionally at the same time. On the other hand, compared with other arteries, the popliteal is prone to aneurism. Thus, of 551 cases of aneurism collected by Dr. Crisp, 137 were popliteal, and only 66 femoral. Course and Terminations.—Enlarging usually with tolerable rapidity, the aspect of the artery from which the aneurism arises, regulates the rate of its progi'ess. On the anterior aspect of the vessel, aneurism is resisted by the joint or the lower end of the femur, and increases slowly. Constant pressure on these parts is followed by synovitis or caries, and the tumour ultimately bursts into the joint. On the posterior aspect of the vessel, aneurism being supported by the hamstring muscles on either side, but restrained only by the integuments, it enlarges rapidly. Becoming diffused, it may burst upwards into the cellular texture of the thigh; or backwards, under the integuments of the popliteal space; or downwards, under the fascia overlying the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Rupture of the sac terminates the previous aneurismal symptoms. Treatment.—Genuflexion was originally practised by Dr. Mannoir, of Greneva, and, in this country, by Mr. Ernest Hart. It should be tried, in the first instance. If bending the knee back on the thigh stops the pulsation in the tumour, this treatment may be continued. The limb having been bandaged from the toes nearly to the knee, the roller should be turned round the thi^h, the leg: beins: flexed at an acute angle; the thigh is then bent upon the pelvis, and the knee rested against a pillow. In the course of from two days to a week, cure may be completed. This method of treatmeVi.! proved successful in thirty- five cases, two of which had resisted compression of the femoral artery. But from my own experience, I would stt-nngly urge the propriety of restricting flexion to cases in which the aneurism is of small size, otherwise the sac tends to burst; and'where the leg is not tensely swollen, or gangrene may speedily supervene. In Mr. Hart's case, the cure had made consideralDle advance after the first day of flexion, and was complete on the fourth day; on the seventh the patient was moving about. Other successful cases have since been recorded. Flexion is in fact a mode of compression; this being the next resource when that has failed, or is ineligible owing to the large size of the aneurism.