LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID ARTERIES. 525 cesses of tlie cervical vertebra; a tbin stratum of muscle intervening, consisting of the longus colli and scalenus anticus. The sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and inferior thyroid artery, are also in. relation with the posterior aspect of the artery. On the inner side of the artery, below, lie the trachea with the thyroid body, which often overlays the vessel; above, the larynx and the pharynx. On the outer side is a chain of lymphatic glands, between the sheath and the inner border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, which corresponds to the artery in the upper part of its course. Within the sheath, the large internal jugular vein is in im- mediate relation, on the outer side of the vessel. Operation.—The patient should be placed in the recumbent position, with the head thrown back, and the face turned a Httle from the side of opera- tion; thus exposing the side of the neck. The apex of the carotid triangle, where the omo-hyoid muscle crosses the artery, is selected, if possible, as the seat of ligature ; the inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle being the guide to the artery. An incision, from two to three inches long, on the inner edge of this muscle, should be so placed that the centre about corresponds to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage. (Fig. 152.) The skin, superficial fascia, and platysma are thus divided. Turning the head a little so as to relax the sterno-mastoid, the deep fascia must be cautiously divided, and the sheath of the vessels exposed, with the omo-hyoid crossing it. The thyroid veins, turgid with blood, passing across the sheath of the vessels, and the descendens noni lying in front of the sheath, are drawn to either side of the wound with retractors by an assistant. The operator introducing his finger into the wound, feels the artery beating between the trachea and sterno-mastoid muscle. The sheath is now opened in the usual way, by a pinch up with the forceps and lateral application of the knife; the aneurism-needle should be gently insinuated, on the outer side of the artery, between it and the vein, taking care not to include the pneumogastric nerve in dipping the needle round the vessel; the ligature is then drawn through and secured, without disturbing the vessel. The operation lower down in the neck necessitates the division of the sternal portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles may be drawn to the outer side. Any thyroid veins and the internal jugular, which, on the left side, inclines to the front of the artery, will also thus be avoided; and the ligature is then passed as above. Ligature of the External, and Internal, Carotid. — Surgical Anatomy.—(1.) The external carotid arising from the bifurcation of the common carotid, opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, extends upwards to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, between it and the mastoid process; there dividing into two branches, the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. (See Fig. 151.) In this