168 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. regard to cancer, as of nearly all diseases, no one symptom is pathog- nomonic, but that the diagnosis must be determined by the concurrence of symptoms,—co-existing or successional. Co-existing Diseases.—Diseases of various kinds may co-exist with cancer, without apparently influencing it, or being influenced by it. Thus, Bright's disease of the kidney has no effect on the course of cancer, which may proceed favourably, even to withering and complete cicatrization, independently. Extensive skin disease, syphilis, caries of the spine, fatty and cirrhosed liver, may severally co-exist. " But," observes Mr. Moore, " exanthematous fevers are unknown in the cancer wards of the Middlesex Hospital, excepting erysipelas, which is not less common in such patients than in others. Erysipelas sweeping over a cancerous ulcer will sometimes efface its specific characters, rendering it a healthy, granulating, and cicatrizing sore. In a few days, or weeks at most, the original kind of ulcer has reappeared. Hospital gangrene, occasionally, has a similar temporary effect, and ultimately the same result. Apoplexy and heart-disease seem to have some protective influence against the production of cancer. Tubercle appears to be no less manifestly incompatible with cancer, while yet related to it." Traces of old tuberculous disease are remarkably common in the bodies of persons dying with cancer, and in 34 per cent, of them phthisis exists in the family; yet the two diseases are never found in active growth together in the same person. Active tubercle co-existing, supplants as it were cancer, which may wither and even cicatrize as the patient is rapidly dying of phthisis. Course.—In the vital history of cancer, certain aspects of its progress are particularly worthy of observation. Bate of Orowth.—Encephaloid cancer takes the lead, growing generally to some dimensions in a short time, or even with vast rapidity. Scirrhus grows more slowly; colloid, with a medium degree of rapidity. Duration of Groivth.—Scirrhus is of longest mean duration, averaging three or four years ; encephaloid is of shorter mean duration, averaging about two years; colloid holds a middle place also in this respect. But the suspension of cancer-growth for a time, the tumour remaining stationary, is not uncommon. This period may extend even to years. Thus, scirrhous cancer has been known to remain quiescent for ten and twelve years ; medullary cancer, in like manner, and perhaps more frequently, for a period of twelve and fifteen years. Sex appears to have but little influence on either the rate or dura- tion of growth. Age seems to have some influence ; the progress of cancer, generally, being more rapid in the young, and chronic in old persons. Arrest and Decay.—These changes consist in a cessation of growing, and a destruction of the proper structural elements of the tumour. Cells and nuclei break up, oil-globules and granules are substituted, by a degenerative transformation. The chief element in a withering cancer is fat, contrasting with the general emaciation of the body. Scirrhous cancer-growth is thus arrested, in rare instances. Softening—which contrasts with the hard withering of cancer—takes place,"principally, in encephaloid, itself soft cancer. It is transformed into matter having a creamy or milky appearance, very slightly viscid, and the consistence of soft cheese or thin pus. The proportion of milky