TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 131 mucous cysts, e.g., surcharged Nabothian follicles about the neck of the uterus, or distended Cowper's glands just within the orifice of the vagina, the less fatty cysts, e.g., certain wens, and seminal cysts in connection with the spermatic cord—encysted hydroceles. A collec- tion of such cysts presents similar characters. The resistance of the circumscribed fluctuation varies in degree, from that of the most fluid, to that of the most solid-feeling thick fluid ; as grumous blood, synovia, mucus, or the butter-like consistence of sebaceous cysts. Subject to these original deviations, the typical condition of the cystic-growth is that of one or more membranous bags, filled with some kind of fluid; and as such, its physical characters supply a complete diagnosis. Any uncertainty as to its nature can be determined by puncturing the supposed cyst with a grooved needle or with a fine trocar and canula, and examining its contents, simply by inspection, or under the microscope. Other conditions are subsequent productions :— ^he proliferous development of a solid growth within a parent cyst, is especially observed in sero-cystic disease of the breast, and in cystic bronchocele. A tumour, originally fluid and fluctuating, is thus con- verted into an unbroken solid mass; but during this transitional change the growth, not yet completely filling the cyst or cysts, is immersed in fluid, so that the whole feels a mixed tumour—partly fluid, partly solid. Ultimately, if one of the cysts should burst from over-distension, or if it be artificially laid open, the growth within, no longer restrained, increases, and protruding in the form of a fungus, gives to the tumour a new and characteristic appearance. Varieties and Diagnosis.—A thickened cyst simulates the characters of other tumours. It may resemble a chronic abscess, i.e., without the pain, heat, and redness of inflammation, only presenting swelling with fluctuation. But a pus-cyst, so to speak, is more blended with sur- rounding tissues,—it is less circumscribed than a cyst which has merely become thickened. An ordinary cyst is. sometimes actually converted into a painless chronic abscess. Their diagnosis is then practically unimportant. Cystic parasites are of comparatively rare occurrence : 1 cysticercus cellulosus and echinococcus hominis may appear in the I cellular texture, the former as a small, the latter as a large cyst. Their ; nature may be ascertained by puncture, and an appeal to microscopic t examination. Billroth has seen the cysts of the first-named parasite 1 removed from the nose and tongue, and vesicles of echinococcus removed t from the back and thigh. Trichina spiralis, also an encysted parasite, i inhabits the voluntary muscles, and always in vast multitudes, appear- : mg to the eye as white specks. But this cystic condition is perhaps c boyond the reach of diagnosis, and certainly of surgical treatment. (2.) Ctstic-tdmour.—A cyst or cysts within the substance of a solid tumour renders the diagnosis more obscure than when not so imbedded. Thus, cysts are, occasionally, set in the substance of a fibrous, fatty, or cartilaginous tumour, or in cancer-growth, and perhaps no kind of tumour is exempt. The depth of integuments, underneath which a cyst may be situated, will more completely conceal its true character. But the physical signs of cysts in tumours are constant. A cir- 1 cumscribed boundary, and fluid resistance, in some degree, to the touch,