575 INFLAMMATION OP LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Inflammation of Lymphatic Glands.—Adenitis.—Structural Con- ditions.—Inflammation of the lymphatic glands differs in no important particular froaa that of the lymphatic vessels. Their structural re- semblance explains this pathological affinity, for these glands each consist of lymphatic vessels in the form of a network, connected by cellular tissue into a dense mass, enclosed in a cellular capsule. The lymphatics, entering a gland and forming the network, are again collected into lymphatic trunks issuing from the gland. Capillary blood-vessels ramify on this network of lymphatics, and are thus brouo-ht into an intimate relation with them, anatomically and physio- loo-ically. Infl.ammation of the lymphatic glands is attended with some thickening of the conglomerated vessels, and infiltration of the interstitial cellular tissue with fibrinous exudation and cells, but seldom with any permanent obsti'uction of the interior of the vessels. Sup- puration not unfrequently takes place, forming an abscess, either centrally in the substance of the gland, or in the external and sur- rounding cellular texture. The symptoms are simply those of ordinary inflammation; the gland becomes swollen, hard, and painful, with, perhaps, a blush of redness and heat in the superimposed integument. Induration is less notable, owing to the naturally firm consistence of the lymphatic glands; but they may acquire even a bullety hardness, as the inguinal glands in connection with an indurated syphilitic sore. Softening often suc- ceeds in ordinary adenitis; and with suppuration, the usual symptoms of abscess supervene. (Edema commonly occurs in the part below, and proportionately as absorption becomes obstructed. The consti- tutional disturbance is the inflammatory type of fever, and often more acute than with inflammation of the lymphatic vessels. Causes.—Usually ensuing as a continuation of inflammation along the lymphatics, adenitis sometimes arises independently, from an injury, or from absorption of noxious matter, not affecting the inter- mediate vessels. A sprain or an ulcer may thus induce inflammation of the glands distant from the seat of either; as the inguinal glands, when the foot or shin is the source, the intervening lymphatic vessels remaining unaffected. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Resolution occurs in many cases of ordinary inflammation. (2.) Chronic enlargement and induration is not uncommon. (3.) Suppuration may be followed by sloughing, and exposure of the glands, as reddish-grey, fleshy masses, notwithstanding the destruction around them. Treatment.—Leeches are seldom necessary; fomentation, rest, and relaxation by position generally being sufficient to resolve the infl.am- mation, aided by mild depletory measures medicinally. Suppuration threatening, the same treatment should be continued, and warm spongio-piline fermentations or poulticing having been assiduously employed for a few days, a bistoury should at once be introduced, and any matter set free ere burrowing has taken place. Fistulous tracks are more apt to form with suppuration around the gland; and stimu- lating injections or solid nitrate of silver will then, perhaps, succeed in exciting healthy granulation so as to close these passages ; failing which, they must be slit up and healed from the bottom. Chronic induration of the lymphatic glands is best dispersed by the occasional application of iodine paint; but if suppuration has taken place, and perhaps