FKACTURE OF THE LOWER ARTICULAR END OF THE FEMUR. 659 Union by bone commonly takes place; and, indeed, such was tbe result in the more severe cases above noticed. Treatment.—A flexed position of the Icnee, supported by the douhle- incUnedplane or Mclntyre splint, thus to relax the gastrocnemius, is per- haps the most effectual plan of treatment in these fractures. Inflamma- tory swelling of the knee-joint—concomitant with fracture near or into the joint—must be subdued by cold lotions or irrigation. Passive motion should be used, as soon the union will bear it, to prevent anchylosis. The starched bandage will be appropriate in the treatment of any fracture of the femur—as in all other Fractures—only when retention, without any extending force, may be sufficient. It will, therefore, be found very useful, after consolidation has taken place, to thus finish off the union, without further confinement to bed. Or, it may be employed from the commencement, in children and infants ; where the ordinary apparatus cannot well be applied or continued. In adults as well as children, for the treatment of fractures of the thigh, Mr. Erichsen extols the starched bandage, as being suitable, in most cases, from the commencement. He has tlaus treated "many fractured thighs, both in adults and children, without confinement to bed for more than three or four days, and without the slightest shortening or deformity being left." I must confess to never having been so fortunate in a single instance. In the last case where I removed the long splint, and put up the limb in a starched bandage, earlier than usual, i.e., before consolidation of the callus, the upper fragment progressively over- lapped, occasioning acute pain, and the man had to go to bed again for another month. the limb, in the act of leaping from the Chelsea pier on to a steamer. The knee- joint presented the appearance of a partial dislocation inwards of the condyloid portion of the femur, with laceration of the lateral and crucial ligaments. The patella remained in its natural position, although the ligaments were relaxed. There was also a compound fracture of the leg at its lower third, and extensive laceration of the integument in the inguinal region. The limb, from the knee downwards, was quite cold, with considerable swelling, especially about the knee, the ankle, and foot. Amputation of the thigh was performed immediately. Examination of the limb disclosed the following additional particulars:—The displacement of the shaft of the femur inwards was such that its external portion rested on the internal condyle, and projected forwards. The periosteum was stripped from the lower third of the shaft, but adherent to the upper margin of the detached epiphysis, and formed a thick fold posteriorly, which prevented the reduction of the portions of bone. The epiphyseal cartilage had separated with the condyles, thus exposing the cancellous tissue of the end of the shaft. In the knee-joint, the ligaments were entii-e, except a slight rupture at the inner part of the posterior ligament. "Within the joint, there was a large quantity of recently effused blood. Both the epiphyses of the tibia, upper and lower, were detached, partially at least, carrying with them the epiphyseal cartilages; but no displace- ment had taken place. In like manner, both the epiphyses of the fibula were detached. The fracture of the tibia was at the lower third of the bone; that of the fibula at the middle of its shaft. Within the ankle-joint also, some blood had been effused. The muscles were extensively lacerated, and the cellular texture of the limb was infiltrated with blood. The popliteal artery had undergone a rare form of partial rupture—both the inner and middle coats being torn through, for about one third of an inch, just above the bifurcation of this vessel; and thrombosis having taken place so as to obliterate the vessel for an inch above and below that point, gave rise to the symptoms of gangrene. No injury had occurred to the popliteal vein, or the nerves. Pyremia followed the operation, and tho patient died thirteen days after the accident. In connection with this mode of death, the femoral vein was found in a state of phlebitis or thrombosis as liigh as the external iliac vein; the vessel containing a large clot of semi-puriform blood. Secondary abscesses had taken place in both Inngs.