SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 392 Hsemorrhage; bat the syncope arising from such lesion is due more to the injury, itself possibly extensive and severe, than to the ex- travasation of blood. The shock of injury is always severe, some- times overwhelming ; tetanus also is apt to supervene, especially after any such wound of the hand or thumb, of the sole of the foot or of the toes. Locally—the textures, disintegrated by violence, inevitably die to a greater or less extent. This event, which is strictly speaking traumatic gangrene, on however small a scale, takes place in one of two ways, or both may co-operate. Severe contusion or laceration kills the part out- right; or it does so indirectly, by damaging the blood-vessels some distance off, in which case mortification is occasioned by a deficient supply of blood to the part. In both cases, gangrene is immediate, or at least immediately commences; it evinces no tendency to spread beyond the seat of injury, and, in due time, is defined by sloughing, or by "a line of demarcation " when the injury is more extensive. The appearances and textural changes may be gathered from Billroth's observations. Completely crushed skin presents a dark- blue violet appearance, and feels cold; or, at first there may be no alteration, but in a few days it becomes white and insensible, later it assumes a grayish hue, or when quite dry, a brownish-black colour. The healthy skin is bordered by a rose-red line, which shades off into diffuse rediiess ; this is the reaction redness about the wound, marking the line of the living skin, which only begins where the blood still flows through the capillary vessels. In muscles, fascias, and tendons, this appearance is far less pronounced at first; and how far they will be detached is uncertain. The process of separation comprises the following textural changes:—At the line of junction of the dead with the living tissue, the cir- FiG. 96.* culation is arrested by coagulation of the blood in the adjoining capil- laries, and nutrition ceases ; cell-infiltration and the formation of vas- cular loops lead to the development of granu- lation tissue, from the surface of the living tissue below; and then, by the solution of the granulation tissue into pus, its cohesion and continuity with the dead tissue ceases, and the parts are detached. (Fig. 96.) This suppurative separation in con- nective tissue takes place in all other tissues, bone not excepted. But more often the gangrene of a contused wound is of an inflam- matory character, and occurs at a somewhat later period—in the course of a few days—as follows :— Course.—Gangrenoihs inflammation supervening, in the progress of * Diagram of the process of detachment of dead connective tissue in a contused wmd. Upper, or contused, dead portion, showing blood-vessels occluded by coagu- lation ; lower portion, the living tissue, is the scat of cell-mfiltration, principally at the junction of the living with the dead tissue. 300 diam. (Bilhoth.)