709 DISEASES OF PARTICULAR BONES. be performed in the earliest recognized condition of tbe disease, and certainly before any enlargement of the lymphatic glands has evinced the supervention of systemic infection. Moreover, removal by am- putation can only be effectual for the prevention of the recurrence of cancer, when the operation is performed high above the part affected, so as to be entirely free of the seat of the disease. Hence, in interstitial cancer of bone, the line of amputation should be, not in the con- tinuity of the bone, but above the next joint; and in periosteal cancer the line will be most judiciously selected even higher up, above the origin of the muscles infiltrated probably by proximity to the disease. , Pulsatile Tumour of Bone, and Osteo-aneurism.—Structural Oon- ditions.—A pulsating tumour in, or on, bone may be—(1) a tumour, not itself pulsating, but in connection with an artery which communi- cates its pulsations thereto; as an enchondromatous, fibi'ous, or other tumour, thus connected; (2) a vascular tumour; usually cancerous and, particularly, encephaloid in the course of its development (Fig. 330); (3) a vascular groivth or erectile tumour of bone, resembling aneurism by anastomosis in the soft parts, and constituting osteo- aneurism. This last condition is very rare, if it exist at all; the best authorities, such as Oruveilhier and Rokitansky, are agreed respecting the rarity of osteo-aneurism, and that most pulsating tumours of bone are highly vascular encephaloid tumours. The situation of any such tumour is generally the cancellous interior of a bone, especially of the long bones, at their articular ends; as the femur, tibia,humerus, radius ; also in the flat bones, as those of the pelvis and skull, and in the ribs. Signs, and Diagnosis.—An en- largement of the bone, with a thrilling pulsation and bruit, are symptoms common alike to a highly vascular tumour, such as advanced encephaloid cancer, or aneurism by anastomosis. And this pulsation subsides on com- pressing the main artery of the limb. But the persistence of a tumour, and its incompressibility, would be distinctive of a mass having formed independent of the blood- * St. George's Hospital, II. 231. Malignant pulsatile tumour of the ilium. The patient, a man aged fifty-one, was admitted into the hospital, October, 1855, with a small tumour in the neighbourhood near the sacro-sciatic foramen, pulsating very distinctly. This disease was referred to an accident eight months previously. The case was distinguished from aneurism of the gluteal artery—a very rare condition— by the different character of the pulsation, by the fact also that pressure in the sacro-sciatic notch did not control the pulsation, and by the absence of bruit. In November, 1856, the tumour had increased very much on the nates, and pre- sented also in the iliac fossa, where fulness and pulsation were perceptible on deep pressure. The gi'owth had now acquired a lobulated form, its consistence varied in different parts, and the softest parts of the mass were most pulsatile. There was paralysis of the sphincters of the bladder and anus, and occasional haamaturia. The patient was emaciated. CEdoma of the lower extremities, especially of the left, supervened; and death ensued in about two years from the commencement of the Fio. 330.*