I DISLOCATIONS OF THE SPINE. 733 an arrest of development of the dislocated side of the face, the osseons and muscular structui'es being atrophied and imperfect. A singular deformity of the face was thus occasioned on the one side, as compared with the other; and the nsual signs of dislocation were absent or reversed,—the front teeth of the upper jaw projected beyond those of , the lower, the mouth was closed or opened voluntarily, and these move- ments of the jaw were more extensive than in the normal condition. This congenital dislocation is incurable. Dislocations of the Spine—through the inter-vertebral substance— are almost necessarily accompanied with fracture of the articular pro- cesses, or of the bodies of the vertebrfB ; excepting in the cervical region, the articular processes there being placed more obliquely than those of the other vertebrae. Any dislocation of the spine is rare, and more so without fracture. The displacement may be forwards, and more commonly in this direction ; latei'al rotation, to either side; or back- ward displacement. It is always incomplete, except perhaps in the cervical vertebrae, which may possibly undergo complete displacement, forwards (Malgaigne). The seat of dislocation varies; this injury occurring in the cervical region most frequently, and particularly at the fifth or sixth vertebra; in the dorsal region occasionally, and particularly at the eleventh or twelfth vertebra ; in the lumbar region very rarely, but perhaps at the first or second vertebra in this portion of the column. It appears, there- fore, that spinal dislocation is more often met with in the cervico-dorsal and dorso-lumbar regions; at the junctions of curvatures, and of flexible to comparatively inflexible por- tions,—the weakest parts of the column. In all dislocations of the spine, the cord is more or less involved. Detachment of the inter-vertehral snhstance, with displacement of the bodies of the vertebra, is a very uncommon form of injury. I have seen one such case in the cervical region of the spine, as shown by post-mortem examination. The Signs and Symptoms of spinal dislocation are similar to those of fracture in this region ; some irregularity or projection at the seat of dislocation (Fig. 339), and paralysis, more or less complete, of those portions of the body which receive the nervous supply from below the point at which the dislocation hns oc- curred. The^diagnosis, as compared with fracture, can hardly be * Koyal Free Hospital. A case of partial dislocation, apparently, of tlie third and fourth cervical vertebriB, of some duration; unaccompanied with any symptoms of paralysis. Fig. 339.*