15 MODEEN SUBGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. physiological fact known to John Hunter, that detached portions of the body may be re-united or even transplanted, had been witnessed in such instances as where a bit of the nose or a finger-end, accidentally cut off, was thus restored; and the additional fact of subsequent growth was not unknown ; yet the principle involved in these remarkable phenomena remained without much suggestive application in the prac- tice of Surgery. This double law of independent vitality and growth has recently received a most remarkable and friiitful illustration in the practice of skin-grafting, as originated by M. Riverdin; particles of skin being implanted on a granulating surface, that each may repro- duce integument from itself as a centre, and thus complete the cica- trisation of a large or slow-healing ulcer. Some most remarkable results have been achieved by this method of reparation, the introduc- tion of which into this country is due to Mr. G. D. Pollock, 1870. Pathology in Surgical Operations.—In the plan and performance of Surgical Operations, the G-uidance of Pathology supplements and com- pletes that of healthy Anatomy. It is only under the circumstances of disease or injury, and life com- bined, in one word, Pathology,—as superadded to Anatomy, that the operating surgeon interferes. He is never called upon to touch the body in its healthy and dead anatomical conditions. Surgical Anatomy, properly so called, is found to be modified throughout by constant association with pathological conditions, in the performance of any operation. Such an association therefore will tend to correct the purely Anatomical impressions of the Student, and to safely guide the operating Surgeon. Certain Operations are only apparent exceptions to this otherwise unexceptional law in Operative Surgery. It may be that the seats of operation and of disease or injury are not identical; that our operation is somewhat removed from the diseased or injured locahty. Such are amputations, and the ligature of arteries for aneu- rism. But even under these circumstances, pathological anatomy can alone determine whether or not we operate clear of the disease and amid healthy tissues; whether, for example, the bone and soft parts left after amputation are healthy, and whether we cast our ligature around a healthy portion of artery. This negative application of pathological anatomy is obviously of the highest importance in respect to the suc- cessful results of surgical operations. On all other occasions, the physical properties and relations of parts disclosed during an operation are then so changed by disease as some- times scarcely to admit of recognition; and thus it is that anatomy plus certain pathological alterations, or the patliologico-a,na,tomical con- ditions of the body, are those with which, the operating surgeon is concerned. Guided by this a priori principle, we can predicate those pathological conditions which from their nature must chiefly influence the perform- ance of surgical operations ; alterations of certain physical properties, more especially of colour, consistence, and elasticity ; also modifications of shape and size, with those affecting the situation, position, and rela- tion of parts. Such peculiarities altogether change the scene with which the mere anatomist is familiar. Nor are these the only circumstances that overshadow the appear- ances to which he is accustomed. Whoever has observed the arm of a dead subject as it lay extended over the side of a dissecting-table, must