119 INFLAMMATION. Aspiration is due to the ingenuity of Dr. Georges Dieulafoy; and in his hands, coupled with the practice of most surgeons, this method of treatment has been extended to the removal of any collection of fluid; while it is applicable alike for the purpose of exploratory punc- ture, in diagnosis, without the admission of air. The tube near the needle is interrupted by a piece of glass-tube; so that the puncture cannot penetrate beyond even a layer of fluid, without some portion traversing the glass window,—being siicked up, as it were, by the aspirator. The diagnosis is at once indicated. This method is specially serviceable to determine the presence and nature of a fluid, when the collection is in small quantity, or deeply seated. Thus, aspii-ation has been employed successfully, whether for diagnosis or treatment, in abscess within joints, or under the muscles of the thigh, in the gluteal region, or in the iliac-fossa; or as affecting internal organs, such as the liver or kidney. Cystic ovaries, or cysts within the pelvis, have been submitted to aspiration, through the abdominal wall, or per vaginam. Effusions within the skull, in hydrocephalus ; into the peri- cardium, the pleural or peritoneal cavities, have thus been safely with- drawn ; and the hernial sac may be relieved of fluid, so as to admit of effectual taxis, in returning the visceral protrusion. Collections of blood, which may have become partly coagulated, yield less readily to aspiration. Yet I have drawn off a mixture of bloody serum, to the amount of fifteen ounces, consequent on extensive bruising of the back. But, in aU cases, the fluid is apt to re^ccumulate, especially when pressure cannot be brought to bear upon the part. Lastly, in retention of urine, supra-pubic puncture with the aspirator, affords the means of speedy and safe relief ; and which may be resorted to several times with impunity. Gomiylications of Abscess.—HcemorrJiage into an abscess sometimes occurs, and either before or after it has been opened. The source of the bleeding may be capillary, from the highly vascular pyogenic membrane; and then the haemorrhage is of an oozing character. It usually occurs when the abscess is opened, and the nature of the case is plainly declared by the admixture of blood with the pus, or the discoloration of the purulent discharge afterwards. This form of haemorrhage arises partly from the capillary vessels yielding under the loss of pressure of the fluid which had occupied the cavity of the abscess ; but the bleeding proceeds principally from the unsurgical thumbing and squeezing to which an abscess is sometimes subjected, in order to empty the cavity; and sometimes there may be a constitu- tional tendency to haemorrhage, as from scrofula or purpura, or in the haemorrhagic diathesis. Arterial or venous htemorrhage arises from ulceration laying open an artery or vein of some size ; and then the bleeding is sudden and profuse. This may occur before or after the opening of the abscess. In the former case, the nature of this com- plication is indicated by the sudden enlargement of the swelling; and when the haemorrhage is arterial, by the pulsating character of the tumour. But these signs are often obscure, and in the latter case, the abscess can only be distinguished from an aneurism by any marks of inflammatory action and the previous history. The treatment of these different forms of abscess-hasmorrhage will vary accordingly. Capillary bleeding may be restrained, by laying the abscess freely open, and then applying a compress and ice-bag.