386 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lend tlieir aid, as the most effectual tonics; thongli this condition often lasts perhaps for life, as an incurable cachexia. Transfusion of Blood.—This operative procedure offers an ultimate resource, justifiable only in extreme haemorrhage; not, however, to be delayed until the patient is dying, nor declined on that account, re- coveries haying occurred when the patient was lying in articulo mortis. The operation consists in the injection into a large-sized vein, at the bend of the arm or instep, of a variable quantity of blood—six to six- teen ounces—freshly drawn from the vein of a healthy man or woman. Blundell's transfusion apparatus, or Dr. Roussel's instrument, is perhaps the safest and most convenient; but transfusion may be effected by means of an ordinary glass syringe, fitted with a stop-cock, and a, cannula. A clean glass vessel is used to receive the blood, this vessel being rather deep to retard coagulation; and both it and the injecting syringe are warmed up to blood temperature, 98°. The patient's vein having been opened by an incision just large enough to admit the cannula, and the blood having been drawn from the arm of another person into the vessel, the injecting syringe is then filled with blood, and the nozzle being inserted into the cannula, the vital fluid is passed into the circulation, in a slow and equable stream. In this procedure, three other particulars must also be observed :—that the blood injected does not approach to coagulation; that no bubbles of air be thrown in ; and that the vein be not injured by the cannula. If Wood cannot be procured, warm water may be injected. The results of transfusion have been siiccessful, occasionally, in saving life, for a time, at least, or even to complete recovery. First practised by Dr. Blundell in cases of flooding after child-birth, this method of restora- tion has since been resorted to in extreme surgical haemorrhage; notably in a case by Mr. Lane, where a boy was thus rescued, and who after an hour or two sat up in bed with no return of the bleeding. Dr. Roussel, of Geneva, has more recently practised transfusion with much success. Entrance of Aib into Veins.—The fatal result or the extremely perilous symptoms arising from the forcible introduction of air into the veins of animals, had long been known; and was at length made the subject of experimental observation by Morgagni, Valsalva, Bichat, and Nysten. But, in Surgical Practice, the accident first occurred in the experience of M. Beauchesne in 1811, during an operation for the removal of a tumour from the lower part of the neck. It was necessary to disarticulate and raise the clavicle; and while this was being done, the patient became faint, exclaimed, " I am dying," and expired in less than a quarter of an hour. Dissection revealed a small wound in the internal jugular vein, at its junction with the subclavian, and the entrance of air through that wound caused the fatal result. The accident has since happened in the practice of Mirault, Clemot, Roux, Majendie, Castara, Dupuytren, Delpech, Begin, B. Cooper, Warren, Mott, Stevens, and other Sm-geons, both in Europe and America. A Commission of the French Academy was appointed to investigate the subject; and the names of Majendie, Amussat, Wattraann, and Cormack, are distinguished for the light their labours have thrown on the pathology of the entrance of air into veins. Symptoms.—The local phenomena consist in a peculiar sound, of a i hissing, gurgling, lapping, or sucking character, produced by the