SPECIAL, PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 594 points, or littlo streaks; tLey are tlio young granulations, which rapidly growing in height and breadth, spread and coalesce, so as to present a mamillated granulating surface, continuous with the granu- lations of the surrounding soft textures. Thus far the process may he traced by the eye, aided only by a lens, in the early stage of vascular pointing. But an injected specimen of such bone, deprived of its inorganic matter, shows certain changes in the osseous texture, which are disclosed by microscopic examination. (Fig. 196.) The Haversian canals are crowded Fig. 19G.t Fig. 195.* with small round cells—apparently emigrated white blood-cells— which infiltrate the connective tissue along the walls of the canals, and the included blood-vessels have developed into vascular loops; this infiltrated tissue, together with the looped vessels, growing to the surface of the bone, sprout out of the open ends of the osseous canals, in the minutely punctiform appearance of the young granu- lations. The canals themselves at first become atrophied and enlarged, by absorption of their walls, to make room for the cell-infiltration, and thus the granulating bone appears porous, when macerated to remove the out-cropping granulations. Ossification of the granula- tion-tissue proceeds rapidly within the bone, so that the osseous texture soon loses its porous character, and becomes denser and harder from the interstitial deposit of new bone. Between the fi-actured ends, ossi- fication takes place far more slowly, leaving the callus a soft, fibrous connective-tissue bond of union, for perhaps a long period; while, on the surface of a bone, granulations acquire only the character of a con- densed texture, in a cicatrix which, although continuous with the surrounding skin, is firmly attached to the subjacent bone. Diftise suppurative periostitis and osteomyelitis, or diffuse suppuration within the medullary canal and cancellated structure of a long bone, may both * Diagram showing fracture of a long bone with external wound, i.e., compound fracture, in a longitudinal section.—o, necrosed ends of bone;, h, internal callus ; c, external callus; the darkly shaded granulations are continuous with the extcrual wound, d; e, ends of bone, displaced; /, surrounding soft parts. Natural size. (Billroth.) , . , ., . t Diagram showing detachment of a necrosed portion of bone; smnlar to Bloughing in a contused wound. The upper or dead portion is detached from tiie lower or living portion of bono, by cell-infiltration between the two portions and into the adjoining Haversian canals. 300 diam. (Billroth.)