SPEOLVL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 366 gold, silver, iron, or lead. They are apt to induce inflammation and ulceration of the skin around each, as a centre. Silver wii-e is, perhaps, less irritating than silk, which acts as a seton, A number of such sutures are, in efL'ect, so many little setons, along the margin of a wound. Fine telegraph wire has been introduced into surgical practice by Mr. Clover. It consists of a fine copper thread, coated with gutta-percha. This is soft, flexible, tough, and perfectly unirri- tating; it admits, therefore, of ready introductioii and knotting as a suture, and it may be left in the tissues for ten or fourteen days, with- out inducing any suppuration or inflammation along its ti'ack. Sutures, of some kind, are necessary alone, or as adjuncts to strips of plaster, whenever the wounded part is liable to be disturbed; whether by muscular action, its own weight, tension, or looseness. Such parts are the lips, tongue, soft palate, checks, nose, eyelids, ears; breasts, abdominal walls, bowels, scrotum, and the integuments around joints. When used, sutures are applied hefore the retentive strips of plaster; and only to bring the margins of the wound together, here and there, form- ing the "interrupted" suture. (Fig- 86.) Commencing in the centre of the wound, in order to judge of the even adjustment of the rest of its extent, the first suture is inserted by means of a curved needle, armed with silk or wire. Then another is placed alter- nately on either side, and so on, from point to point; but only where neces- sary to secure apposition. If silk be used, each suture is tied with a reef- knot ; if wire-suture be employed, a twist or two wiU secui'e it. In either case the ends are then snipped oif short. A few sutures only, as may be requisite, should be inserted ; for, besides their irritating character, co- aptation can be efficiently maintained in the intervals between them by straps of plaster. Other forms of suture are employed in special kinds of incised wounds. The " twisted " suture is a waxed thread, twisted or coiled into a figure of eight shape around a fine needle, previously ti-ansfixed through ■ the lips of a wound in apposition. It is most serviceable for wounds in the lips, as in the operation for hare-lip, and for wounds of the abdommal walls. The " quilled " suture consists of a number of inter- rupted sutures, secured, not across the lips of the wound, but on either side, to a quill, piece of bougie, or other small cylinder, placed parallel about half an inch from the margins of the wound. Textures below the surface are thus approximated and steadily held together; an ad- vantage in respect to a deep wound, as Avell as in any movable part. Ruptured perinseum is thus secured. The " unmterrupted" suture, or Glover's stitch, is seldom used, excepting for wounds of the mtes- tine, which are stitched close so as, if possible, to'prevent the escape