DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 783 * St. Bartholomew's IIosp, Mus., C. GO, Dislocations of the Head of the Fibula.—Tho uppoi' end of the fibula may, occasionally, be dislocated forwards or backwards. Of the former dislocation, Malgaigne has collected three examples, uncon- nected with any other accident, and not apparently due to any abnormal condition of the ligaments. I have seen another, or fourth, such dis- location, which had remained unreduced. Of backward dislocation, Hamilton enumei'ates three cases on record. The Signs of these dislocations are very palpable; the projecting head of the bone, immediately under the skin, forwards or backwards, cannot fail to be observed. The Cause is almost necessarily direct violence, as a blow on the head of the fibula. But muscular action is said to have produced two, at least, of the three forward dislocations. The consequence of any such dislocation may be a laxity of the joint, with mobility of the fibula backwards and forwards upon the tibia. This was the result in one of the backward dislocations re- corded by Sanson. Treatment.—Reduction having been effected by pressure, the head of the bone must be kept in place by a compress and bandage. Dislocation of the Lower End op the Fibula.—The only instance of simple dislocation is related by Nelaton as having occurred in the practice of M. Gerdy. It was a bacJcivard dislocation, of thirty-nine days' duration, and caused by the wheel of a carriage passing obliquely across the leg so as to displace the outer malleolus, backwards. The bone was in almost direct contact with the outer margin of the tendo- Achillis; the outer face of the astragalus, abandoned by the fibula, could be plainly felt, and the position of the foot remained unaltered. The patient could walk pretty well, the bone was fixed, and reduction not attempted. Dislocations of the Ankle-joint.—The astragalus in connection with the foot may be dislocated from the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, in four directions : (1) outwards, (2) inwards, (3) forwards, and (4) backwards. They may be termed dislo- cations of the foot in these directions. Most of these displacements are accompanied with frac- ture of the fibula, the tibia, or of both bones. The description of these several forms of disloca- tion will, I think, be simplified by regarding at least some of them, conversely, as relating to the tibia. Structural Conditions.—(1.) Dislocation o^it- wards. The lower end of the tibia is displaced laterally inwards upon the astragalus ; the outer portion of the articulating surface of the tibia resting upon the inner portion of the upper articulating sui'face of the astragalus, or it may slide completely off in the same direction. Tho foot is turned outwards—everted. The internal lateral ligament is ruptured, but not perhaps completely, or the inner malleolus may be broken, or both; the fibula, also, usually gives way two or three inches above its articulation with the astragalus. (Fig. 397.) Sometimes, in addition