699 MOLLITIES OSSIUM. bath is mticli recommended by Sir Ranald Mai'fcin, as a valuable adjunct. Daily exercise may be taken advantageously ; but tlie bones of the lower limbs should be relieved from the weight of the body, by the patient reclining at intervals during the day, and wearing steel- supports so applied as to resist any tendency to curvature. The support should be placed on the opposite side of the limb to the direction of curvature. When applied upon the curve, observes Mr. Brodhurst, pressure should be exerted only in the horizontal position, to avoid sloughing. Many a little, rachitic child, pot-bellied and bandy-legged, may thus be reared to man's estate; when ]S"ature will complete the cure. Permanent curvatures in the long bones may remain, after the osseous texture has become strengthened by ossific deposit, and ac- quired perhaps sclerotic hardness. Any such deformity, if it interfere with the use of the limb, may resist mechanical treatment by means of properly contrived apparatus. It has, therefore, been proposed to fracture the bone subcutaneoitsly, and then set the limb straight; or, if the bone be too firm, to perform subcutaneous osteotomy, as Langen- back recommends. Successful results have been obtained by both these surgical procedures. But the probability of a natural cure taking place should ever be remembered ; that the bones will straighten in their growth, the child out-growing the deformity. MoLLiTiES OssiuM—OSTEOMALACIA—Malacosteon.—Structural Con- dition.—This diseased state of the bones is far more rare than rickets, only a few instances having been recorded; but it is also far more serious. The earthy matter is greatly diminished, but replaced by a peculiar reddish gelatinous matter, chiefly fatty, and con- taining nucleolated nuclear cells, -which have been I^'ig- 320.* described by Mr. Dalrymple. This matter occupies the cancelli, which are considerably enlarged, and cavities in the compact texture; infiltrating the whole substance of the bone, until, as Dr. Ormerod remarks, it more re- sembles fatty matter enclosed in a periosteum than a bone. Bones thus affected are soft and flexible; on section, the osseous texture yields a gritty sen- sation, and has a reddish-brown or maroon colour, exhibiting the peculiar gelatinous matter in an extremely rarefied osseous texture. (Fig. 320.) The characteristic appearances are well-marked in the section of the lower half of the femur, as repre- sented. Atrophy, by rarefaction of the cancellous texture, and thinning of the walls of the bone, is : associated with the substitution of the peculiar : gelatinous and fatty matter. The pei'iosteum and I articular cartilage are healthy. The chemical com- ; position of bone in this state, according to Dr. Leeson's analysis, is—in 100 parts, 18"75 animal 1 matter, 29-17 phosphate and carbonate of lime, and 52'08 water. Commencing, apparently, in the cancellous tissue, the compact ] portion may retain its natural consistence, as an outer shell of bone; ; and the whole length of a long bone may not be affected. But I many bones are always simultaneously diseased. Fracture, or bend- * St. Bartholome\Y's Hosp. Mus., 1, 233. Sec also Specimen 1, 120.