634 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. deformity resulting from tenosynovitis or from contraction of the palmar fascia. But the rigid flexor tendons or processes of the fascia, in the palm of the hand, are not found in the paralytic condition ; and the causes of those affections are also very different. In the treatment of wrist-drop, and of the paralytic club-hand, a palmar splint should be applied, to counteract the tendency to per- manent contraction and deformity ; and the restoration of nerve power may be promoted by the galvanic current. But its influence will have little effect when the nerve-lesion is nearly complete. When an exubei-ant callus can be felt anywhere in the course of the musculo- spiral nerve, a portion of the bony clasp may be removed so as to disengage the nerve ; and this operation of excision has been followed by the cure or relief of the paralytic affection, in a few instances. Peactuees of the Foeearm.—The Radius and Ulna are each, singly or conjointly, liable to fracture, in the various situations here delineated. (Fig. 229.)— 1. Fractures of the] Ulna.—(1.) The Olecranon. —Transverse fracture not unfrequently occurs, with displacement upwards by the action of the triceps muscle, and which varies in extent according to the Fig. 230.t Fig. 229.* complete or partial rupture of the tendinous ex- pansion of this muscle. (Fig. 230.) An interval between the fragments is thus presented; and the forearm being partly flexed by the unopposed action of the flexor muscles, that interval is increased. Mobility of the oleci'anon, and some crepitation, easily produced when the arm is extended, will further indicate the nature of the injury. Considerable fluid swelling over the seat of injury may, however, soon render these signs somewhat obscure. Causes.—Direct violence, as a smart blow with a stick, or a fall on the elbow, is the usual occasion of this fracture; and of the contusion which then accompanies it. But a powerful action of the triceps muscle will, sometimes, snap off the olecranon. Union by ligament ensues in most cases; the length of this band * Fractures of Kadius and Ulna. Diagram showing situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.— jiadius.—\. Through head, longitudinal (St. George's Mus., 1, 111). 2. Through neck, transverse (Mutter). 3. Upper third, both bones. 4. Middle third, both bones. 5. Lower third, both bones. 6. Carpal end, or Colics' fracture. 7. Ditto, comminuted into wrist-joint (St. George's Mus., IQ'd).—Vina.—I. Through ole- cranon, transverse (St.' George's Mus., 1, HI). 2. Through coronoid process, transverse (St. George's Mus., 1,111). 3, 4, 5, as lu radius. (Author.) t After Listou.