829 DEFOEMITIES OF FACE AND NECK. The first three of these sub-classes are considered in connection with other Injuries and Diseases ; Deformities as Malformations also are thus associated;—e.g., with Congenital Dislocations, and with the pathology of Organs and Regions—Hare-lip, extroversion of the Bladder, etc. It remains only to here notice the affections included in the last sub-class (4) ; associating therewith, any remaining Malformations of musculo-nervous origin or character, as that of congenital club-foot. Even in this sub-class, the following Deformity is more conveniently considered elsewhere. Lateral Curvature of th-e Spine.— See Spine. Deformities of Face and Neck.—Wnj-Neck or Torticollis.—This deformity is a twist of the head and neck to one side, in the directions of action of the sterno-mastoid muscle ; the head being drawn down- wards, sideways, and rotated somewhat outwards. The ear of the affected side may be drawn down towards the clavicle. In proportion to the duration of this deformity, the face is turned askew, the features losing their symmetry. The sterno-mastoid muscle is firm, and stands out more prominently, though shortened, as compared with that on the opposite side. Other muscles apparently become involved, the anterior margin of the trapezius acquiring an outline which defines the posterior boundary of that named triangular space of the side of the neck. The cervical vertebrae slowly undergo lateral curvature with rotation. Causes.—Congenital wry-neck is the most common form of this aifection. The side of the head, neck, and shoulder which present the deformity, appears to be considerably smaller than the parts on the opposite side, the shoalder and scapula unduly raised, and the features drawn down and unsymmetrial. The sterno-mastoid muscle is re- duced . to a narrow, shortened cord, hard and tense. Curvature of the cervical spine has taken place, laterally to the opposite side, and a compensating curve in the opposite direction lower down. Spasmodic contraction of the sterno-mastoid muscle of the affected side is a very rare cause of the deformity,—then known as spasmodic wry-neck. The special accessory nerve would seem to be the source of this muscular action, and hence its extension to the trapezius muscle. The spasm is remarkably jerking, painful, and constant, excepting during broken sleep, and it continues for many years ; the sufferer ultimately sinking exhausted. This kind of wry-neck usually commences about the age of thirty, and in females not apparently hysterical, but whose families have an hereditary tendency to other cerebro-spinal affections. Some- times, however, it is a symptom of hysteria. Paralysis of one sterno- mastoid is a rare cause of paralytic wry-neck. The head is drawn to the opposite side by the healthy muscle, not being counteracted by its antagonist. Disease of the cervical vertehrce, of scrofulous or rheumatic character, occasionally gives rise to the deformity. The exciting cause would appear to be, not unfrequently, exposure to cold, or some occa- sion of local irritation or inflammation of the cervical glands, resulting in stiffness of the neck. Burns of the neck, followed by contraction of the cicatrix, occasion remarkable distortions resembling wry-neck ; but not depending on any affection of the muscles, they are thus distin- guished from wry-neck thence arising. Treatment.—Tenotomy, or the subcutaneous division of tendons and