167 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. two cases, althougli the glands are not involved to so great a distance from the seat of disease, as in the other species of cancer. The results of Paget's observations, respecting the decidedly infective character of epithelial cancer, are at variance with those of Lebert and Hannover. Cancerous lymphatic glands present more or less enlargement and induration, without any adhesion, or discolouration of the skin, at first. But the course of their disease is similar to that of the primary cancer- growth. Derangements of function are produced, some of which are irritative ; as pleurisy and hydrothorax by mammary cancer, peritonitis by ovarian cancer, vaginal discharge by non-ulcerated scirrhus of the uterus. Other derangements are mechanical; as effusions by the compression and obstructions of blood-vessels, spontaneous fracture with cancer of bone, stricture of the urethra or bowel, pressure on the brain, spinal cord, or nerves, inducing paralysis, partial or complete, pressure on the optic nerve or from within the eyeball, impairing or destroying vision. (h.) Constitutional effects.—The functions of the various parts of the body, other than of the part affected, may continue uninterruptedly for a longer or shorter period as cancer advances. Thus then the general health remains unimpaired, independently of the local disease. Conversely, the growth of cancer is inversely proportionate to the general health; being temporarily arrested, if it remain unaffected or is maintained, and coming into activity as it declines. Consequently, with advancing age, there is, so far, a greater liability to cancer; and particularly of the uterus, during the decline of generative power. In like manner the functional vigour of any part of the body apparently protects that part against the production and growth of cancer; whei'eas the decline of such vigour has the opposite tendency. Thus, pregnancy and lactation protect the uterus and breasts, respectively; while the cessation of those functions is favourable to cancer-growth in these organs. The supervention of either of the functions refei"red to, is, however, sometimes accompanied with a rapid extension of the disease, or the tumour may remain unaffected by these local changes. Cachexia is the term used to denote all those functional derange- ments, chiefly of the circulation, nutrition, and innervation, which together represent the constitutional condition. Peverishness, loss of appetite, nausea and vomiting, distressing thirst, imperfect digestion, obstinate constipation or diarrhoea, ^^progressive emaciation with peculiar yellow sallowness," muscnlsir weakness, sleeplessness, and melancholy; such are the leading phenomena of this condition. They are somewhat proportionate to the amount and diffusion of cancer-growth in the system, and hence are more pronounced when it appears in different parts suc- cessively, as secondary cancer, and as affecting especially the great internal organs, which minister to the nutrition of the body. Cachexia is most marked in scirrhous, or in encephaloid at an early period of the disease, and least in colloid cancer. Much has been urged for and against the reality of cachexia as a constitutional symptom of cancer. I think the truth may be thus expressed; that an individual affected with cancer often presents a pallid, or perhaps yellowish and emaciated appearance, but that this state is not peculiar to cancer disease. The patient may look very ill and worn, just as in any other chronic disease ; and that no such state can be recognized as the cancerous cachexia. This acknowledgment, however, amounts only to the fact, that in