44 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tripetal nerves of the injured part, and reflected by the vaso-motor centre through the centrifugal nerves to the vessels. This physio- logical explanation rests on the observations of Ludwig and Loven; in curarised rabbits, excitation of the central end of a divided nerve in the external ear, or of the dorsal nerve in the foot, was noticed with regard to its elfects on the corresponding artery; and similar experi- ments on the sciatic nerve of the frog, relative to the circulation in the web of the foot, were conducted by Strieker and Riegel, and repeatedly verified by Dr. Sanderson. Emigration of blood-corpuscles through the walls of the Capillaries.— In the course of Inflammation, the passage of blood-corpuscles through the walls of capillary vessels, seems to have been been originally noticed by Dr. W. Addison (1842), and more completely described by Dr. A. Waller (1846) ; but this remarkable fact first attracted atten- tion by the observations of Professor Recklinghausen (1863), Professor Strieker (1866-6), and specially by the investigations of Professor Cohnheim (1867) and Dr. Prussak; more recently confirmed in this country by Dr. B. Sanderson. Experimental observations upon the transparent parts of animals, as the foot-web, or the mesentery of the frog, or the tongue of that animal, have been the source of our know- ledge in this important physiological inquiry. The jJrocess of emigration in the passage of white corpuscles, or leucocytes, is as follows:—The Fig. 4.* corpuscles having accumulated within the capillary vessels, those which lie on the interior of the vessel begin to sink into the capillary wall, presenting button-shaped projections externally (Fig. 4) ; gradually enlarging in the shape of pyriform bodies, the imbedded corpuscles pass through the wall, but are still adherent by their pedicles; lastly, becoming detached, the passage is completed, and the corpuscles— which have thus emigrated from within—are each free outside the vessel. The red corpuscles may emigrate in like manner, though less abundantly. The cause of this migratory process seems to be, that the cells possess an inherent vital activity—that of protoplasm, and resembling the mobile power of amoeba}; and that the capillary walls also possess the same contractile power of protoplasm, in addition to their vital capacity for proliferation, as evinced in the ramifying formation of new vessels, and, moreover, the physical * Mesentery of living Frog.—a. Vein. hb. Adjoining connective tissue per- meated by colourless corpuscles, which have migrated from the vessel, c. Central column of red corpuscles, y^. (Cohnheim.)