SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 566 Fig. 177. The hvisted sidure may be applied at intervals along the course of the vessel; with subcutaneous section of the portion of vein included between any two such sutures, placed about one inch apart. (Fig. 178.) The subcutaneous section is made with a fine narrow-bladed tenotomy knife—straight or curved, as may be convenient. (Fig. 177.) The point of the knife is entered under the vein, and carried to the opposite side to just beneath the skin; then, by drawing the blade outwards, Fig. 178. n so that the point traverses a semicircle under the integu- ment, as felt by the forefinger of the other hand, the vein is thus divided, its thickened structure cutting with a leathery resistance. This operation has already been described in the treatment of Varicose Ulcer. It is the most successful and least objectionable mode of obliterating varicose veins. In no case, but one, have I seen any untoward event— sloughing, phlebitis, or pysemia; and in some cases the cure has been permanent. It is the only mode of obliteration which I have recourse to. The suture part of this proceeding originated, I believe, with Velpeau-; the subcutaneous section additionally, is due to Mr. Lee. Subcutaneous section of the vein, without placing a suture-barrier on either side of the divided portion to guard either aperture, is always perilous : owing to the I'isk of pyasmic infection consequent on any phlebitis which may thus be excited. Excision of a small portion of the vessel is equally hazardous, as attested by Sir B. Brodie. Cauterization, to excite inflammation of the vein, may be affected by the application of caustic potash, or chloride of zinc, so as to produce eschars in the course of the vessel; the phlebitis advancing to adhesion, and stopping short of suppuration, within the vessel. But thence the risk of pyemic infection. Tet this mode of inducing obliteration has been recommended by Mayo, Seutin, Bonnet, and other Surgeons; and is particularly advocated by Mr. Skey, within certain limitations.' He recommends the application of Vienna paste; potash in the propor- tion of two parts with three of lime, and spirits of wine being added to form a paste. The eschars should not exceed the size of a split pea, and their number be regulated by the extent of the varicose vein. Thus produced and restricted, they are said to be free from danger. Injection of a few drops of the perchloride of iron, and the influence of rjaioanism transmitted through needles introduced into the vein, are modes of obliteration so questionable as to their efiicacy, or their safety, that they need only be mentioned. Venous hmnorrjiage occurring in the course of varicose veins, the bleeding may be arrested, temporarily, by digital compression, slight