602 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. bones, as the radius and ulna, the tibia and fibula, or two adjacent ribs. Diar/nostic Signs.—These various conditions of deformed union present obviously characteristic appearances ; but they resemble the appearances produced by corresponding displacements in Fracture ■without union. Absence of mobility will always be distinctive of deformed %inion. _ Causes, and Effects of Deformity.—The external canses of deformed union after Fracture may be any circumstances which occasion dis- placement of the fragments. Thus, unsuitable retentive appliances, or their unsuitable application, will have this effect; so also, rough handling of the part, during the process of repair. Internal causes comprise muscular action displacing the fragments, and diseased conditions of the callus ; as exuberant callus, resulting from inflammation affecting it during, or after, its formation. The effects of deformed union of Fractm-e are mechanical. If occurring in the neighbourhood of a joint, its action will be impaired. If in the shaft of a long bone, as the femur, ineffectual power is experienced, and in various ways, according to the direction of dis- placement. Thus, shortening of the limb occasions lameness. If two companion bones are conjoined, serious loss of function may be the result ; as loss of pi'onation and supination of the forearm by union of the radius and ulna. Or such union may be unimportant; as in the case of the tibia and fibula. Terminations.—In respect to the process of union, the vital history of deformed union presents nothing peculiar. The recognition of two stages in the process is, however, of practical importance; recent or incomplete ossification of the callus, and old-standing or comijlete- union. Treatment.—(a.) Recent union, with displacement, suggests the pro- priety of endeavouring to rectify the deformity gradually. Infraction, by extension or bending, and compression, may be applied; either by manipulation, from time to time, and the interim application of a suitable retentive apparatus, or by means of some contrivance to slowly reduce the displacement. Either should be worn as long as occasion requires; say, from 3 to 5 weeks. Successful results have been obtained in numerous fractures after union of some duration; as 25, 29, 59 days ; and, possibly, after 4 or 5 months. Thus, I succeeded in straightening the forearm by manipulation, in the case of a child, where fracture of both bones had joined at an angle backwards; a tolerably firm callus having formed. The arm became completely useful, in all its movements. In the event of a more unyielding callus, although still of recent formation, refract^ire becomes necessary; but this must be done cautiously. It may be accomplished in like manner —by manipulation, or by the application of a screw-press; in either way, the object being to break the callus, under the influence o£ chloroform, and to reset the bone in its natural axis and position. The extreme period of union when this procedure can bo_ safely resorted to, is determined principally by the degree of consolidatioa which may have taken place. Experience has sanctioned different periods of limitation. Thus, the twenty-fourth week is the extreme- limit advisable, according to Osterlen. A little longer was conceded by Bosch, perhaps 6 or 6| months. Mr. Skey, however, m one case