GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 232 and there at the margin or on the surface of the cornea. These pus- tules burst and expose small ulcers. Frequently an interstitial deposit overshadows the whole cornea, which thas becomes thickened and opaque (pannus), projecting also, so that the eyelids cannot be closed. This is one destructive sequel, and should ulceration of the cornea not terminate comparatively favourably, in specks of opacity, perforation of the anterior chamber will be inevitable, the aqueous humour is dis- charged with prolapsus of the iris, and the eye collapses. Fretting ulceration of the Meibomian glands, attacking the margin more especially of the eyelids, and known as ophthalmia tarsi, is a frequent concomitant of scrofulous ophthalmia; or this diseased con- dition extends to the iris, giving rise to scrofulous iritis. But there is nothing peculiar about this variety of iritis, taken per se; and indeed it is only as one of a series oi local manifestations that we venture to designate it " scrofulous" iritis, and refer the whole series to one and the same constitutional cause in operation. The organs of hearing do not escape. Chronic suppuration per- forates the tympanum; the ossicula crumble, loosen, and are washed out by the discharge. The nose assuredly enjoys no immunity. Habitual swelling, ulcera- tion, and foetid discharge from the pituitary membrane—ozaena—may or may not be accompanied with caries and discharge of portions of the spongy bones. The upper lip is commonly tumid, protuberant, and chapped. Fissures also and ulcerated spots are seen on the tongue. Nodules, moreover, superficially imbedded in the substance of this organ are said to arise in most instances, and to present the following characters. They vary in size from a small shot to that of a horse-bean ; are pain- less, unless subjected to firm pressure, which occasions a pricking sensation. The superimposed mucous membrane reddens, soon breaks in the centre, and forms an ulcer, which spreads and destroys by sloughing erosion; accompanied with mucli pain, profuse salivation, furred tongue, and foetid breath. If cicatrization ensue, hardness still remains ; fresh nodules also form in other parts of the tongue. Chronic and considerable enlargement of the tonsils, with perhaps indolent ulceration, is another outbreak of the scrofulous diathesis; so likewise is swelling of the sub-lingual, sub-maxillary, and occasionally the parotid salivary glands; but these affections alike owe their signi- ficance to the invariable co-existence of other local diseases of more unequivocally scrofulous origin. Chronic laryngitis may be due to this constitutional cause. The vocal cords become thickened; the voice therefore is hoarse or squeak- ing, and the breathing embari'assed; a tickling cough from time to time ejects a slimy, not frothy, expectoration, streaked with blood perhaps; or the sputa are muco-purulent. In either case the breathing is relieved by this expectoration ; but eventually ulceration of the rima glottidis renders its closure imperfect, the act of coughing incomplete, and expectoration therefore difficult; so that the respiration is yet moi'e oppressed. Should ulceration of the epiglottis supervene, there will be considerable difficulty of deglutition. A certain mammary tumour was first described by Sir A. Cooper. In young women, says this author, who have enlargement of the cervical glands, I have sometimes, though rarely, seen tumours of a