895 CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. so skilfully as to channel a curved passage through, the fibro-cellular tissue. Nerves and lymphatics do not apparently enter the substance of granulations. The process of development having finished, healthy granulations are seen in the shape of small conical papillfe, of a glistening red colour when free from pus. The ims-cells in suppurative granulations are either degenerate or immature granulation-cells. If the former, pus represents the s^qjerficial portion of organized granulation material, which, having lived its time, passes off, just as epithelial cells are de- tached. If immature granulation-cells, pus represents the superfluous portion of organizable material, which never reaches maturity. This is the more probable interpretation, considering the structural similarity or identity of pus-cells. As immature granulation-cells, pus ceases to be secreted when the granulations come to the level of the skin, for then, the wound or chasm being filled up, no more organizable mateiial is needed. Sometimes during the granulating process, granulations from op- posed surfaces meet together. They may then unite; this conjunc- tion being designated " secondary " adhesion, to distinguisli it from ad- hesion primarily, as between the surfaces of an incised wound. But it takes place in the same way, by the development of fibres out of nucleated cells and the interchange of capillary blood-vessels through this medium of commuication. The contractUe force of granulations is supplemental to reparation in bringing down the marginal skin to their own level and diminishing the area of the wound. Thus, then, by their actual growth and possible coalescence, aided by their contrac- tion, granulations and skin at length become even. Cicatrization commences, its purpose being to cover the granulations with skin. At the margin of the wound or ulcer, the granulations become flattened, and cease to secrete pus; appearing as a red, dry, smooth border, about half a line in breadth ; this is followed by a translucent, bluish-white border, in advance of the opaque-white true skin. Converging at the rate of about half a line daily, the surface gradually gets covered. Sometimes little islands of cuticle form, here and there, on the granulation surface, which coalesce, and thus shorten the process of marginal cicatrization. But these isolated centres or patches of epidermis apjDcar only where corresponding portions of the cutis with rete malpighii have remained undestroyed, on the surface of the wound or sore. (Billroth.) Newly formed and healthy c^'caifria; IS thin and red, with a stretched, shining aspect, and not so supple and elastic as true skin; somewhat depressed, sometimes elevated, but always attached more or less firmly to the subjacent tissue. It con- tracts for a long while, and perhaps with considerable force, especially after burns, thus becoming smaller in area, particularly if the sur- rounding skin be loose or redundant. In the course of months or years, the cicatrix acquires a pearly white colour, and becomes more supple, elastic, and movable as part of the integument. Nature has healed, and almost effaced the wound. But a cicatrix always remains perma- nently, being more or less visible for life ; it never wears out altogether. It is less vascular, and less sensitive than the adjoining skin. Re- sembling true skin in its fibro-cellular structure, cicatrix never acquires its glandular elements, neither in the form of sweat glands or sebaceous follicles; and it remains destitute of hairs.