THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 34 Bichloride of Methylene and Chloral Hydrate are anaesthetic agents wtich have more recently been added to those already noticed—nitrous oxide gas, sulphuric ether, and chloroform. For this addition we are indebted to the experimental researches of Dr. B. W. Richardson. Bichloride of Methijlene, compared with chloroform, has certain alleged advantages ; anaesthesia is rapidly induced, and it can be main- tained for any length of time, without also any muscular excitement or rigidity, recovery is rapid and complete, and without any unpleasant after-symptoms. Sickness, however, is not less liable to occur from the influence of this agent when continued beyond a few minutes. In point of safety, it seems to be about equal to chloroform. According to Dr. Richardson's estimate, up to October, 1869, bichloride of methy- lene had been administered to between six and seven thousand persons with only one fatal termination. It occurred in a patient of Mr. Can- ton's, on whom he was about reluctantly to operate at Charing-Cross Hospital, for advanced malignant disease of the upper jaw. The patient, a man thirty-nine years of age, was previously exhausted, bodily and mentally, by great suffering of three months' duration, the apparent date of the disease; one nostril was closed by the tumour, thus obstructing respiration, and the patient was subjected to the influ- ence of the bichloride in a sitting posture. One drachm and a half, in separate quantities, had been administered, when the man's head fell back, the pulse became feeble, and then ceased. There was no accom- panying stertor nor lividity of countenance. The horizontal position, artificial respiration, and galvanism, failed to restore life. Other fatal cases have since occurred. Mr. Rendle, of Guy's Hospital, observes that the rapid action of bichloride of methylene,—in twenty or thirty seconds,—and the rapid recovery from its influence, are apparently due to its great volatility and solubility, enabling a large quantity to reach and escape from the nerve-organs at once; while its safety is referable to its rather stimulant action on the heart, and to its speedy elimina- tion. The bichloride, being very volatile, should be kept in a well- stopped bottle, placed in the dark, and inverted under water. Mr. Rendle's inhaler consists of a leathern receptacle, dome-shaped, and perforated for the admission of air; having also an accurately fitting mouth and nose piece. This inhaler is lined with a loose flannel bag, fastened round the mouthpiece by an elastic band. A drachm dose of the bichloride of methylene is scattered over the interior of the flannel bag; the vapour should then be administered cautiously, with a sufl&cient proportion of air not to induce anaesthesia under one or two minutes ; and as sensibility returns in only a few minutes, the effect of the bichloride may be maintained by giving another drachm, if necessary, observing to discontinue the inhalation immediately, in the event of dangerous symptoms,—namely, cessation of the pulse and respiration, with turgid lividity of the face. This ansBsthetic agent is employed chiefly in operations on the eye, as at the Ophthalmic Hospital, Moorfields, and in the Ophthalmic Wards at Guy's Hospital; also in Ovariotomy, by Mr. Spencer Wells, at the Samaritan Free Hospital, where I have seen it used very satis- factorily. In general surgery, to save time, bichloride of methylene is sometimes administered in order to rapidly induce anesthesia, which is then continued under chloroform. Chloral Hydrate is, by some observers, said to possess powerful