ULCERATION AND ULCEBS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 205 Duly considering the anatomical facts which I have adduced, namely, the condition of the veins in certain cases of ulceration, and the absence of the lymphatics in other cases; also, the fact that con- tamination of the blood is neither a constant sequent of primary venereal ulceration, nor, in its order of sequence, consistent with the hypothesis of absorption; the fair inference is, that ulceration may begin and continue without absorption. Other facts show that ulceration is a process of disintegration, solu- tion, and discharge of disoi'ganized textures. Take, again, the ordinary case of an ulcer arising from a blow on the shin. In the course of a few days, a small portion of dead tissue—a slough—comes away. Its discharge announces ulceration. Dead texture can, as we have seen, be absorbed, yet this slough is discharged. It may be urged that in such case sufficient time is not allowed for absorption; that the tissue dies too extensively and too rapidly for the process of absorption to keep pace with that of destruction. But subsequently, as ulceration continues, a similar discharge of dead tissue continues. This discharge of textures m^iy be recognized when now and then they die too rapidly to dissolve as they die, and thus become imperceptible. In all sloughing ulcers, whether from inflammation or fast-spreading phagedsena, the disintegrated portions of texture are visible. On the other hand, the common indolent ulcer and the varicose ulcer, also indolent, are gene- rally free from the debris of the textures, which, as they have died, have been disintegrated, dissolved, and discharged. This, at least, is the fair inference ; for every intermediate degree of disintegration and solution of the textures is witnessed, from the most obvious sloughs down to debris and all the varieties of mixed discharge. This view of ulceration is supported by Mr. Key's observations, at the later date* referred to; by the observations of Earle,t Gaskell,]: and Wallace.§ Mr. Paget,|| also, has collated much important evi- dence in the same direction. Thus, in ulceration of cartilage, inflam- matory exudation has no share, and the process of ejection of the disintegrated tissue may be clearly traced; but of cartilage it may be said, being extra-vascular, absorption cannot take place. The same process of ejection, however, is discernible in ulcerating bone (where absorption may occur), as shown by the observations of Virchow; and Bransby Cooper ^ noticed, that while in pus from soft parts' only traces of phosphate of lime are found, the pus from around diseased bone contains in solution nearly two and a half jier cent. A similar, but less complete, observation was made by M. T. Taylor,** and also by B. von Bibra.tt Then, again, this view of the pathology of ordinary ulceration harmonizes with the process by which a specific ulcer is seen to be formed. Earle XX pointed out the sameness of the process. An in- cipient chancre is a vesicle which, bursting, discovers a minute slough. * Op. cit., vol. xix. " Further Eemarks on the Ulcerative Process," p. 135. t "On the Nature of Inflammation,"ilfed. Gaz., 1835, vol. xvi. p. 254. X " Jacksouian Prize Essay," 1837. MS. Coll. Surg. Eng. § "Venereal Disease," 1838, p. 48 et seq. II " Lectures on Surgical Pathology," 1845, vol. i. pp. 420, 453. H Mad. Gaz., 1845, and "Lectures on Surgery, 1851, p. 127. ** "Diseases of the Bones." Stanley, 1849, p. 89. tt " Ohemibche Untersuchungen verschiedcner Eiterarten," 1842, p. 85. XX Op. cit., p. 254.