20 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. No less important in Operative Surgery is the knowledge, partly- Pathological, to which I would next direct attention, as mainly deter- mining the success of operations. Conditions Pavouiublb ano Unfavourable for Operation.—The selection of cases fitted for Operation should always most seriously engage the Surgeon's consideration. The Conditions Unfavourable for any Surgical procedure being known, all other conditions may be presumed to be favourable. Unfavourable conditions comprise: (1) certain states of the Patient's Health, constitutional, and local in regard to the seat of disease or injury,—in short, certain Pathological conditions; (2) the Hygienic circumstances by which he is surrounded. Constitutional conditions unfavourable for Operation, relate both to the mind and body. Persons who are naturally of an irritable and anxious, or of a desponding, mind, cannot sustain a surgical operation so well as those of a tranquil and cheerful disposition. This rule holds good also in the case of persons who, from temporary circumstances, may be men- tally affected in like manner. And especially unfavourable, is any despondency respecting the issue of the operation itself. This adverse influence affecting the patient's bodily health, before and after the operation, will be alone sufficient to undermine the result of any skill on the part of the Surgeon. On the other hand, the sustaining in- fluence of hope is well exhibited by the fatal effect produced when it is suddenly withdrawn. Sir A. Cooper tells the story in his Lectures of a poor countryman in Guy's Hospital, who, lying in bed previous to a capital operation, was asked by a student what part of the country he came from ; "Cornwall," he replied. Then said his interrogator, "You will never see Cornwall again." Nor did he; the man never rallied. An instance of such heartless or thoughtless indiscretion, suggests the kind of address and tact, animated by honest sympathy, with which the true Surgeon will manage his patient's mental disposition, ever fairly supporting hope as the well-spring of life. Conditions of bodily health, of a constitutional character, unfavour- able for Operation, are numerous. They relate to all the organs of the body, and vary in importance according to the physiological agency of the organs in maintaining life. Thus, the nervous system, the heart, lungs, disgestive organs, and excretory organs, especially the kidneys and skin, have severally to be considered, and from a twofold point of view. Firstly, organic conditions must be considered, as affecting the general health, and thence the life, of the individual, when subjected to any particular surgical operation; and, secondly, they should be regarded in relation to reparation, or the reserve-power of nutrition requisite after any operation of magnitude, and which necessarily also entails an ordeal of some duration for the system to undergo, before the health can possibly be re-established. Age, or Period of life, has a very significant relation to the proba- bility of recovery after surgical operation, no less than from any injury of equal severity. Extreme periods of life,—infancy or childhood and old age, are about alike unfavourable for operation, as affecting the nervous system—by shock, and the circulation—by hemorrhage. But old age, or an approach thereto, is more especially adver.se, owing to the degenerations of textural structure which the vital organs have