108 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. intimate relation to inflammatory fever. Experience alone sanctions their use. Their administration constitutes what is more particularly designated "febrifuge" treatment. A liberal allowance of water, soda-water, or other bland fluid, seems to favour the excretory operation of these medicines ; probably by diluting, and, as it were, washing away effete raatters from the system. A cool, fresh atmosphere around the patient is a most important adjunct to febrifuge treatment, in carrying off the heat, and excrementitious emanations of febrility. Hence, the antiphlogistic value of a well-ventilated apartment, the amount of clothing or bed-covering being regulated by the diaphoretic treatment ; while cleanliness must be attended to, as subservient to atmospheric purity, and freedom from any irritation to an externally inflamed part. Starvation is another kind of depletion, by withholding the supply of nourishment. And if this were all that the term suggests physio- logically, its significance therapeutically in relation to pathology, would be very simple. But starvation has reference to many differently constituted textures ; each undergoing its own nutritive changes, and having its own food requirements. Consequently, the starvation of any one kind of texture, and kindred textures, is physiologically possible without, at least proportionately, depriving others of their food. Thus, the albuminoid textures, of which muscle is the type, might be starved, apart from the gelatinous, as skin and mucous membrane; and these again apart from osseous texture. The various artificial preparations of food have not, however, hitherto reached this desideratum of com- position, for the purposes of therapeutic treatment, yet it would bear very directly on inflammation,—accelei'ated nutrition,—as affecting different organs and their component textures. The "antiphlogistic regimen " is rather a negative than a positive regimen. Dietetically, it consists in abstinence from animal food and stimulating drinks, and in the moderate use of bland fluids, as barley-water, gruel, arrow-root. But it also implies the exclusion of all surrounding circumstances of excitement to mind or body. A cool and well-ventilated apartment, an easy bed, exclusion of light and noise, the prohibition of conver- sation, of the constant presence and attention of friends, and the banishment if possible of care; such are the principal features of this regimen. Antimony, as an internal remedy, most nearly resembles general blood-letting. After a dose of, say, half a grain, repeated or increased to one or even two grains, every three hours, until vomiting occurs, the effect on the circulation and secretions are very marked. At first, the pulse becoming more rapid and feeble, it dwindles down to a fine thread. Then, vomiting having occurred, the pulse loses its frequency, and perhaps regains its force, but acquires a peculiarly full and soft character; showing that vascular tension is overcome or relieved. Simultaneously, perspiration and the secretion of urine are notably increased ; and liquid evacuations from the bowels not unfrequently accompany this relaxation. The muscles also are flaccid and powerless. In short, the whole muscular system, voluntary and vascular, is re- laxed ; and a flux or flow takes place from various secreting organs, which further reduces the vascular tension. Any local inflammation is thus materially diminished. A full dose of tartarized antimony having this result, similar