418 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Gheloid or exuberant cicatrix is well defined, gradually rising, with a rounded border, and a smooth, level, or slightly convex, or sometimes centrally depressed surface. Its substance is always tough and firm, becoming more so as it grows older. At first, usually more vascular than even a recent healthy scar, and having a florid or purple tint; it gradually becomes paler as it becomes harder, and at length resembles healthy exuberant skin. In point of structure there is nothing peculiar; compact fibro-cellular tissue more or less completely developed or de- generate, and slightly vascular, is covered with a thin cuticle. The size of a cheloid growth is generally distinctive; rarely more than half an inch in thickness, or more than half an inch in any direction beyond the extent of scar in which it grows, the growth thus differs from a fibrous growth of skin which it nearly resembles. Exuberant cicatrLx may ai'ise from some local cause of irritation during cicatrization, or some more obscure cause of a constitutional character. The latter would appear to be the origin of this cicatrix; considering its infre- quency as compared with the frequency of wounds and scars, and that many such growths may appear in the same individual, and reappear in the scars of wounds made for their removal. It occurred as the result of confluent small-pox, in a remarkable case under my observa- tion ; the face presenting a seamed cicatrix, having a trellis-work appearance. Cheloid cicatrix may supervene on a completely formed healthy cicatrix, and even long after it has remained so ; it grows slowly, and generally, after a long duration, ceases to enlarge or diminishes, and it is liable to degeneration and ulceration. Treatment.—Strong stimulants, applied repeatedly, have some effect in dispersing an excessive cicatrix; apparently by inducing or favouring degeneration and disintegration of the already imperfectly developed fibro-cellular tissue, and thus facilitating its absorption. Further growth may at least be retarded or prevented in like manner. Iodine paint and mercurial ointments will perhaps prove the most effectual of these applications. Adhesion of the cicatrix to subjacent textures and to bone, is best overcome by subcutaneous division, as was, I believe, originally recommended by Mr. Hancock. A cicatrix, hitherto intractable, will, when thus detached, contract, and not unfrequently close in rapidly. Contraction of the cicatrix, as after a burn, is more preventable than curable. Mechanical restraint by some form of con- trivance adapted to the situation and extent of the ulcer, and applied as soon as the eschar is detached, will perhaps prevent the effects of contraction. Counter-extension, by similar means, in the dii'ection of contraction, will less surely overcome its effects. But it may be necessary to continue such resistance for weeks or months; often taxing the ingenuity of the Surgeon, and trying both his perseverance and that of his patient. In accordance with pathology, the general principles to be here observed are the following :—" That scar-tissues seem rather to adapt themselves by changes of nutrition to the external forces brought to bear on them, than to be merely stretched by them; that, in however long a time, the natural course and tendency of sears is to soften down to a greater resemblance to the natural parts in both structure and relations ; and that they are of low vital power, apt, therefore, to waste or ulcerate quickly under irritation, friction, or pressure, and are thus removable by absorption." (Paget.) Cheloid cicatrix is removable only by excision, complete extirpation