CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 281 preferable to mercury; particularly in secondary affections of the periosteum or bone, and as occurring in cachectic subjects; or it may be useful in clearing off the effects of mercury. The stimulant and diaphoretic actions of guaiacum may, perhaps, explain its thera- peutic influence in the course of secondary syphilis, and as an anti- mercurial. It would be of little practical importance to enlarge this general view of the medicinal treatment pertaining to Syphilis. Excluding the many nostrums which, from time to time, have had a temporary remedial reputation; the details of the course of treatment, with reference to the various forms of skin eruption, and other secondary, arid tertiary, syphilitic manifestations, can alone be taught at the bed- side, or learnt by experience. The pathology and treatment of Syphilis are thus summed up by Mr. Lee:— There are four varieties of local syphilis, resulting from the inocula- tion of the syphilitic virus, which are quite distinct, although they may occasionally succeed each other. The first variety is accompanied by the adhesive inflammation, and produces a peculiar chronic enlargement of the inguinal glands, which does not involve the skin or the cellular membrane. This variety is followed by secondary symptoms, and requires, both in its primary and secondary forms, mercurial treatment. The second is accompanied by suppurative inflammation. It does not affect the inguinal glands. It is not followed by constitutional diseases, and requires merely local treatment. The third is accompanied by the ulcerative inflammation. It pro- duces suppuration, generally of one inguinal gland only, which yields an inoculable secretion. It is not followed by constitutional syphilis, and may be treated by local means. The fourth is accompanied by mortification. It does not affect the inguinal glands, is not followed by constitutional symptoms, and re- quires only local treatment. Treatment of Congenital, Hereditary, or Infantile Syphilis.—The treatment of the congenital manifestations of Syphilis is advantage- ously considered in connection with that of the constitutional disease. And here also the surgeon should begin with the higher consideration oi preventing the disease, before proceeding to the curative treatment of its manifestations in the infant after birth. It may be within the province and the power of the medical practitioner to thus preclude much domestic shame and misery, by timely counsel with regard to marriage, if he be consulted respecting such an important question. When may a syphilitic patient safely marry ? Mr. H. Lee imposes only a fairly judicious restriction by allowing an interval of three years from the date of the primary stage of the disease, and that the patient shall have remained free of any syphilitic manifestation for the period of one year; but that even then the patient should be warned of the possibility of a relapse. When a syphilitic male patient is already married, but his wife is not pregnant, the husband should be candidly told of the risk of his transmitting the disease both to his wife and offspring; and he himself should be placed under specific treat- ment. When, unhappily, there is reason to believe, or suspect, that the woman is infected, she, also, shoald be treated accordingly, with