DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. 745 wards, but was unable to lift tbe slightest weight; and any motion of the biceps muscle was attended with great pain. This state having continued for two years, death occurred from a compound fracture of the skull; and post-mortem exaniination dis- covered the real nature of the former injury. Fig. 349.* The capsular ligament had been slightly rent, and the long tendon of the biceps, thrown out of its groove, inwards, was lying on the smaller tuber- osity of the humerus (Fig. 349) ; with this dis- placement, the head of the bone, being no longer kept in position, was partly dislocated upwards from the glenoid cavity, lying beneath the acromion, and directed somewhat inwards toward the coracoid process. In a second case, Mr. Soden found the disloca- tion to be somewhat forwards, as well as upwards, in connection with inward displacement of the tendon, and to such an extent that it lay on the inner and posterior aspect of the joint. Prior to these observations, Mr. Stanley had called attention to this form of injury in the "Med. Grazette," vol. iii.; and in the 14th vol. of the same journal, Mr. Gregory Smith describes seven specimens met with in the dissecting-room, some of which showed the same altered relation of the bones, and in all of which the tendon was more or less injured,—in five it had been ruptured, and in two it was displaced from its groove. In one case, related by Mauget in the " Encyclopedie Methodique," the tendon appeared to be " dislodged to the outer side of the groove, for the elbow was immovably flexed." Professor Pirrie has since met with an additional instance of this double form of injury to the shoulder-joint; that case also having been verified by dissection. A case may be mentioned in which a similar inward displacement of the biceps tendon and upward dislocation of the humerus had taken place, but slowly, as the result of destructive disease of the shoulder-joint; the nodulated character of the head of the bone, from ossific deposit, plainly distinguishing this condition from the effects of injury. The preparation will be found in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital. (2.) Dislocation, with Fracture of the Humerus in its Surgical Nech or in the Shaft. In a well-marked case of dislocation of the head of the humerus forwards and upwards under the clavicle, there was also fracture of the surgical neck of the bone. This double injury having happened to a boy at the age of nine years, it is probable that the apparent fracture was a separation of the upper epiphysis of the humerus. On examination, I found a large globular swelling in the subclavicular hollow on the right side, and externally, beneath the deltoid muscle and under the acromion, another projection; the one was plainly the head of the humerus, the other the broken end of that bone. These two projections together gave a remarkably enlarged appearance to the whole shoulder. (Fig. 350.) The arm was much shortened from the elbow, and the humerus was directed obliquely outwards from the side. On extension, the dislocated head could be readily reduced, by pressure with the fingers, into its natural position in the glenoid ♦ King's College Museum, ISil.