GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 286 discharging their contents—serum, pure or bloody—subside into thin incrustations. When, in the course of a week or ten days, these peel off, they disclose the subjacent skin either in a sound state or beset with superficial ulcerations. Suppuration, in the form of small subcutaneous abscesses, sometimes occurs. In some instances the true skin is less spared. It has a reddish-brown or livid hue, and even gangrene of the sidn succeeds; announced by great tension, heat, and acute pain. But this issue of erysipelas is rare, and generally fatal. Such are the origin, course, and terminations of simple erysipelas— an inflammation akin to erythema, and contrasting with the phlegmo- nous variety, in which the skin and subcellular texture are both the seat of inflammation—the latter tissue being more especially, but secondarily, engaged. Diagnosis.—It is highly important to distinguish simple erysipelas from certain other diseases, which bear more or less resemblance to this cutaneous inflammation. Urythema is an inflammatory affection of the skin, which presents a pale rose colour, with slight tension of the skin, and is attended with a tingling or painful sensation; but this inflammation appears in the form of irregularly circumscribed patches, of variable extent and number, and which have not the spreading cha- racter of erysipelas. Any part of the body is liable to be attacked with such patches, but the trunk or limbs are more commonly affected; rarely the head. The accompanying febrile symptoms are slight. Erythe- matous inflammation is transient, subsiding with efl3orescence, in a week or two ; or it may assume a chronic character. The varieties of erythema are distinguished principally by the shape, size, and colour of the flattened patches; in one variety, however, E. nodosum, the patches are elevated, and somewhat indurated, in the form of oval and more or less firm swellings, to the extent of two or three inches long, and which have a red or purple hue. They are commonly seated on the shin; and so far mii^ht be mistaken for syphilitic nodes. Certain diffuse inflammations of the subcutaneous cellular texture more nearly resemble simple erysipelas in appearance. Capillary lymphatitis is one such inflammatory affection of the smallest lymphatic vessels beneath the skin, to which I would especially direct attention, with regard to diagnosis. This inflammation appears in the form of a uniform blush of redness, nnlike the ramified streaks presented by the larger lym- phatics when inflamed; the redness is of a pale rose tint, and is accom- panied with little or no cutaneous tension to the touch of the finger,— these two characters differing so far from those of simple erysipelas, to which perhaps may be added the less-marked boundary of capillary lymphatitis; yet in both diseases the inflammation has the same con- tinuously spreading character. But in respect to their causative origin, the distinction is most manifest; erysipelas generally being communicated by infection; whereas capillary lymphatitis is always of traumatic nature,—as a diffuse subcutaneous inflammation of the smallest lymphatics, proceeding from an open wound, or even a sub- cutaneous lesion, perhaps only friction of the skin. Traumatic erysipe- latous inflammation arises only in connection with a wound ; and, indeed, it may be doubted whether, usually, the traumatic erysipelas, so called, is not essentially capillary lymphatitis. From erythematous inflammation of the skin, this inflammatory affection of the subcu-