SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 640 inner side of the loft external iliac artery; and hoih the internal iliac veins are posterior to the corresponding internal iliac arteries, the right being somewhat external to its artery. The muscles in relation to these arteries are:—the psoas, on the oater side of the common iliac, at its termination; and then along the outer side of the external iUac to its termination, where the artery lies on the muscle at Poupart's ligament; this muscle is also near the internal iliac at its commencement, the external iliac intervening, while the pyriforvi muscle is behind this artery, on which it rests and on the lumbo-sacral nerve. In front, the j3enio?iewm overspreads these three arteries, the internal iliac being contained in the fold that forms the posterior ligament of the bladder. Branches of the sympathetic nerve, proceeding from the aortic plexus in front of the lower part of the aorta, descend over the common iliac to the hypogastric plexus in the upper part of the concavity of the sacrum. The inferior mesenteric artery crosses the left common iliac. The ureter crosses sometimes the common iliac of its side, but generally the external and internal iliac, the former at its commencement, the latter lower down. The external iliac, near Poupart's ligament, is overlaid by the spermatic vessels and genital branch of the gejiito-crural nerve, proceeding obliquely inwards to the internal abdominal ring; it is crossed out- wards by the circumflex iliac vein, and inwards, just above the ligament, by the vas deferens turning down on the inner side of the artery. The abdominal parietes are interposed between the aorta and iliac arteries and any operations on these vessels. They consist of the skin and superficial fascia; the tendon of the external oblique muscle, the internal oblique and transversalis muscles; the transversalis fascia, and peritoneum, which are loosely connected about the situation of the internal abdominal ring, where the spermatic cord passes through the abdominal walls. Operation.—The iliac arteries, external, internal, and common, and even the aorta, may be reached by Pig. 162. the same line of incision ; com- mencing a little above the middle of Poupart's ligament—where the cord passes through, and carried outwards and upwards, nearly parallel with the ligament, to about the anterior superior spine of the ilium, or as far higher as may be necessary. (1.) To reach the external iliac, this incision may terminate near the anterior superior spine. (Fig. 162.) The skin and superficial fascia only are first divided. The bluish-white tendon of the ex- ternal oblique is next carefully, divided to the same extent; ex- posing the spermatic cord as it passes under the lower margin of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, in the lower angle of the incision. These muscles should now be divided with great caution, and the dull wlute transversalis fascia