SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 762 Fig. 373.* and forwards into tlie obturator foramen; and (4) upwards and for- wards upon the piibes. To these may be added, as anomalous and occasional dislocations—(5) Dislocation diredly upivards, between the anterior superior and inferior spinous processes of the ilium, or there- abouts ; downwards and hackwards, upon the posterior part of the body of the ischium, between its tuberosity and its spine; (7) downwards and bacliwards, into the lesser or lower ischiatic notch ; (8) directly or vertically downwards, beneath the lower border of the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity—stibcotyloid; (9) and forwards, into the perineum, upon the ramus of the ischium and pubis, or upon the body of the pubcs. The four first-named dislocations severally require special consideration ; but even their relative frequency is very different. Sir A. Cooper states that in 20 cases of hip-joint dislocation, 12 will be on the dorsum ilii, 5 into the ischiatic notch, 2 into the thyroid foramen, and 1 upon the pubic bone. This was about the proportion in Hamilton's larger collection of the same dislocations; of the whole number 104, the relative numbers were 65, 28, 13, 8. Ohelius and Samuel Cooper reverse the order of liability in regard to thyroid and pubic dislocations, placing the latter before the former in frequency. Dislocation upwards and backwards (1) on the Dorsum Ilii, and (2) INTO THE GREAT IsCHiATiC NoTCH.—Structural Conditions.—(1.) The head of the femur rests on the Dorsum Hii, or within the fibres of the deeper gluteal muscles; and it is directed back- wards, the great trochanter forwards. (Fig. 373.) The capsular ligament, and especially its posterior half, is lacerated, and the round ligament ruptured; the small external rotator muscles are stretched or rent completely asunder, and the glutgeus maximus, medius, and minimus torn up more or less in extent from the dorsum ilii; thus allowing the head of the femur to occupy its un- natural situation. The triceps adductor is put upon the stretch. The particular direction of the head backwards and trochanter forwards, has been attributed to the strong anterior portion of the capsule which proceeds to the anterior inter-trochauteric line still remaining entire, and thus resisting the action of the rotator muscles. Resistance to reduction in this, and other disloca- tions of the hip, has been ascribed either to the rent capsular hgament entangling the head and neck of the bone ; or to opposing muscles ; or to both this ligament and the muscles. * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 209. Dislocation of the femur o° the dor- sum ilii, with the remnaBt of the ilio-femoral lipramcn (inverted Y-sbapoc^^liganm Bigelow), the shaft of the femur being placed ver ical y to bnng into view The dissection showed that the head of the bone was lodged great sacro-sciatic foramen, the capsule having been ruptured so as f^^'^^ sufficient size to transmit the head of the bone. The pynformis muscle was partiaHy lacerated; the oth™ scles were uninjured. This dislocation was caused by a faU from a height of fifty feet.