629 rRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. possible form of injury. In a specimen belonging to Dr. Pope, o£ St. Louis, the upper fragment was reversed upside down, and the lower fragment was displaced in the direction of the coracoid process; both were united by bone. (Hamilton.) (3.) Fracture of the Qreat Tuberosity is an occasional form of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. A double displacement here, also, is produced. The tuberosity is drawn outwards and up- wards by the action of the three attached rotator muscles—supra- spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor—this portion of the bone being found under and outside the acromion. The head of the humerus is rotated inwards by the sub-scapularis muscle acting on the small tuberosity; it lies on the inner edge of the glenoid cavity, and under the coracoid process. Or, a partial dislocation backwards may take place, on to the dorsum of the scapula, with a splitting fracture of the acromion process (Fig. 222); this complicated injury arising from the direct violence which knocks ofi the great tuberosity of the humerus. Signs.—Deformity of the shoulder, corre- sponding to these displacements, is always con- spicuous. Marked flattening and great breadth of the shoulder, even to double its natural breadth, catch the eye at once. A double pro- jection may be felt—an outer, the tuberosity; an inner, the head of the bone; both, however, lying nearly on the same plane Jiorizontally, and with an intervening sulcus or hollow below the acromion. Thus distinguished from fracttire of the surgical neck by the position of the frag- ments, fracture of tlie great tuberosity some- what resembles dislocation of the shoulder, by its sub-acromial depression; and, indeed, partial dislocation forwards might be said to have taken place. But the presence of tiuo osseous projections is distinctive as to the nature of the injury. In the rare form of fracture with partial dislocation iach- loards, the double osseous projection would be wanting. In either case, there will be crepitus on approximating the two portions of bone, and mobility of the tuberosity. Causes.—Direct violence is, mostly, the cause of fracture of the upper end of the humerus. Thus, a heavy fall on the shoulder may occasion fracture of the anatomical or surgical neck, or of the great tuberosity. Protected, however, by the cushion of the deltoid muscle, these fractures are not common, and the first and last are rare. Age seems to favour the occurrence of fracture in the two first-named parts; the anatomical neck being broken more frequently in youth, although possibly at any period of life ; while the surgical neck giving way at the epiphysis is an accident peculiar to a period from infanay to about the twentieth year. Treatment.—These three forms of fracture of the upper end of the humerus may be treated alike, and with successful results. The fragments having been adjusted by extension of the arm, a pad should be placed in the axilla, so as to prevent any re-displacement inwards ; * Univ. Coll. Mus., 103. Fracture of great tuberosity of humerus, and of the acromion, with partial dislocation on the dorsum of the scapula.