SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND STJIiaEIlY. 438 a bursa is apt to form, which, becoming inflamed from tiine to time by pressure, greatly aggravates the pain and inconvenience in walking. Suppuration is liable to ensue. Treatment.—Rcliei is obtained by simply removing the cause of, pressure—wearing a loose shoe or slipper, or protecting the corn by means of a circular plaster of thick leather, having a hole in the centre over the corn. The common " corn-plasters " are thus used. Pencil- ling with nitrate of silver induces desquamation, and thus thins down the corn. Paring or scraping down the corn, previously macerated in warm water, will also ease the pain, as occasion requires. Extraction of the centre or core of the corn is the ordinary practice of chiropodists. But the full -grown corn often returns. Inflammation and suppuration must be treated on ordinary principles. Horns.—Remarkable forms of out-growth, consisting of fibrous or fibro-cellular texture, have been known to occur on various parts of the body, particularly the head or face ; and springing from the various sebaceous cysts, unruptured, or ruptured spontaneously or by accident. Such a homy excrescence has a crooked, tapering form, and a yellowish- brown colour. It may be met with in middle age or advanced life, though very rarely. Similar kinds of out-growth may arise from the matrix of one of the toe-nails, especially the great toe ; extending from one to four inches in length, tapering at the point, and curved spirally like a ram's horn. This is simply a vertical elevation of the epithelial layers forming the nail. Excision completely from the base of the horn is the only cure. Warts or Veerdcj; are collections of overgrown cutaneous papillge, either completely ensheathed by an excessive production of scaly epithe- lium, or with the papillas isolated, each having only its own natural cuticular sheath. They may form in various parts of the body, a common situation being the hand and fingers. Warts may arise spontaneously, apparently, or be congenital, or perhaps hereditary; but usually they proceed from some source of local irritation, as dirt or discharge, or from the handling of animal matter, in cooking or dissec- tion. They occur more often in children, and in girls who have the evil habit of masturbation, though the presence of warts on the hands should not alone beget an unworthy suspicion of such practice. Venereal warts, excrescences, or vegetations well illustrate the origin of warty growths from ii-ritative discharge. Such and similar warts are undoubtedly contagious. Common warts come and go, sometimes, in an unaccountable manner. Treatment.—Escharotics may succeed in removing these often ob- stinate out-growths. The strong acetic acid, applied by means of a glass-brush, or rod, is the most efficacious. Excision with the knife or curved scissors, is the only other mode of cure. MoEBiD Growths.—Besides Warts and the other cutaneous out- growths already referred to, the skin may be the seat of tumours or morbid growths—e.g., painful subcutaneous tubercle, nasvus, epithelial cancer. (See Ch. II.) Ulcers. (See Ch. IV.)