SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 676 tion of external appearance. This pain is more severe at night, and aggravated by changes of weather ; thus resembling rheumatic pain, for which it may be mistaken. Enlargement of the bone at length becomes perceptible; with, perhaps, some redness, cedematous swelling, and tenderness of the integument. This swollen state of the integument renders any enlargement of the bone more apparent than real. Soften- ing of the bone, in some portion of its substance, may eventually be de- tected on pressure; but the diagnosis will be sufficiently obvious, Avithont subjecting the patient to the pain of such examination. Inflammatory fever, of varying intensity, accompanies these local symptoms. Scrofulous ostitis is attended with more considerable enlargement of the bone, and of an indolent character. The surrounding integuments are cedematous, white, and painless; becoming somewhat red and tender, as suppuration supervenes. The concomitant symptoms of scrofula will also determine the diagnosis. Syphilitic ostitis must be diagnosed entirely by the concurrence of present and past symptoms of Syphilis. Periostitis.—The symptoms are similar to those of ostitis, but more simultaneous and superficial. A painful, puffy swelling is presented, the pain subject to exacerbations, and the swelling acquiring a bony hardness. These diagnostic characters are well illustrated by an. ordinary syphilitic node in a subcutaneous bone, as the shin. Endostitis is not characterized by any peculiar symptoms, apart from those of Ostitis. Like the inflammation of other parts, ostitis and periostitis may be distinguished as acute or chronic, according to the more or less severe character of the symptoms, and their duration. In the latter or chronic state of osteal or periosteal inflammation, the patient, worn down by long-continued pain and sleeplessness, presents the consti- tutional symptoms of hectic. Variety of Clhronic Ostitis—" Osteitis Deformans."—Under this title. Sir James Paget has described an hypertrophy and softening of the bones, as the result apparently of chronic inflammatory change ; and the chief characters of which disease are best expressed in his own abstract of the original communication to the Royal Medical and Chirui-gical Society (1877):—This form of chronic ostitis " begins in middle age or later, is very slow in progress, may continue for many years without influence on the general health, and give no other trouble than those which are due to the changes of shape, size, and direction of the diseased bones. Even when the skull is hugely thickened, and all its bones exceedingly altered in structure, the mind remains unaffected. " The disease affects most frequently the long bones of the lower extremities and the skull, and is usually symmetrical. The bones enlarge and soften, and those bearing weight yield and become un- naturally curved and misshapen, suggesting the proposed name ' osteitis deformans.' (Fig. 291.) " The spine, whether by yielding to the weight of the overgrowTi skull or by change in its own structures, may sink and seem to shorten, with greatly increased dorsal and lumbar curves; the pelvis may become wide ; the necks of the femora may become nearly horizontal. But the limbs, however misshapen, remain strong and fit to support the trunk.