11 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. As tlie student yet lingers at tie bedside over the living human body, to watch all the wondrous phenomena it presents in its multiform diseased conditions,—its innumerable modes of living and modes of dying; and, as he has then revealed to him glimpses of that higher life,— the innermost workings of the soul, as a moral agent, when almost disso- ciated from its co-operation with physical forces ; under these privileged circumstances of observation, he will more fully realize the superiority of his clinical study of life over that of the pure anatomist and physio- logist in their view of the body only through the course of its development and the evenly balanced condition of health ; and, in his position of final intercourse with nature, he is favoured with something like an experimental demonstration of that life which is to come, beyond this brief tenure of our earthly existence. Such, then, are the chief aspects of modern Surgery as a Science, Let me now turn to its practice as an Art. Thus regarded. Surgery, like most other Arts, may be practised in either of two ways—Em- pirically, by experience alone, or as a Scientifi.c Art, by the guidance of the Science pertaining to it. In its full signification, this Art embraces the scientific, as distinguished from the empirical, practice of diagnosis, etiological investigation, prognosis, and treatment. In its common acceptation, the art of treatment is more especially considered; and from this point of view, the aspects of modern Surgery are singularly interesting. 4*^"Treatment derives its Indications from each of the three foregoing heads of inquiry respecting morbid conditions. Diagnosis fixes the essential nature of the morbid condition, and thus not unfrequently indicates the requisite remedial measures, particularly as to surgical operations, manipulative procedures, and mechanical appliances; etiology suppUes the knowledge of causes, which, if they be still in operation, must be removed ; and prognosis determines the remaining indications of treatment. A considerable portion of surgical treatment yet remains empirical; but it is now generally felt and acknowledged to be so far aimless, and as often therefore unsuccessful. Such treatment of injury or disease is like trying to hit a mark blindfolded. It can, indeed, only be regarded as a temporary resource, accepted by the practitioner under the pressure of his natural anxiety to relieve human suffering in any possible way, but as often little better than nothing until enlightened by Pathology. As thus directed, however. Treatment acquires three primary Indi- cations of the highest importance. In proportion as the natural course of any morbid condition is towards an unfavourable issue, the Surgeon thence discovers the earliest occasion for interference, and the unfavour- able conditions to be removed; while, in proportion as the natural course is towards recovery, it indicates the least amount as well as the hind of surgical assistance requisite, from time to time, to conduct the case to this happy issue. Treatment in accordance with the natural course of morbid condi- tions towards recovery, is evidently responsive to the requirements of a Self-Bestorative or Repa,rative Power, which is inborn and inherent in the living body. The existence of some such power had been recog- nized by clinical observers from the earliest period, but the practical acknowledgment of its varied operation and resources in the treatment