894 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. margins of the wound. But, in a healthy state, this inflammatory character passes oE. A period of inactivity or calm succeeds, lasting from one day to ten or more, but which varies with each particular texture in the wound; fat being tardy in its revival, as compared with the more vascular skin, or muscular texture, and bone, especially the compact portion, remaining longest dormant. Some further oozing of the serous fluid may, however, continue during this period of incubation,—in which, as the brooding time for good or evil, observes Sir James Paget, the mode of healing will be determined, and the mutual influence of the injury and the patient's constitution are often manifested. At length, a distinct afflux of blood takes place, but with sluggish circulation, in the margins and surface of the wound. Eepara- tive^ lymph begins to flow, abounding with emigrated white blood-cells, which mingles with or displaces the film which had hitherto glazed the wound. This lymph undergoes the same process of organization as in healing by primary adhesion, namely, self-development into fibro- cellular tissue ; but in the form of granulations. Numerous minute bright-red points, or nodules, spring up from the surface of the wound, as seen on an open amputation stump ; appearing first on the margin of the skin and the general muscular surface, while the bone-end or its compact disc remains yet covered only with the yellowish-white lymph-film. These rosy nodules or granules are young granulations. The deepest granulation-cells are most advanced; they are spindle- shaped, or elongated nearly into fibres. (Fig. 97. Bennett). The Fig. 97. superficial ones remain in a rudimental state, and at length acquire the character of epithelial cells. Capillary blood-vessels spring from below, forming loops—as also seen in the figure. Each new vessel is constructed by he outgrowth of two pouches from a parent vessel. The pouches, crammed with blood-corpuscles, shoot upwards, and curving inwards, never fail to meet exactly in apposition, neither segment overshooting. They coalesce by absorption of the partition at the junction of their closed ends, thus completing a vascular loop ; through which the blood, diverging from the main current and rejoining it, is continuously pro- pelled. If, in the construction of any such vascular arch, the pouches burst, the process is then completed by the propulsion of the blood- corpuscles, the current of blood from the parent vessel bcmg directed