7 Fiiblicatioiis by Bailliere, Tindall, attd Cox. Handbook for Attendants on the Insane, with practical information respecting their duties and liabilities; instruct tions for the management, artificial feeding, mechanical restraint of the insane ; legal documents required for their confinement, &c. is. By L. S. Forbes Winslow, M.B., D.C.L., Oxon; M.R.C.P.; Lecturer on Mental Diseases, Charing Cross Hospital; Editor of The Journal of Psychological Medicine. Manual of Limacy. A Handbook relating to the Legal care and treatment of the Insane. Sa7?ie Author, \2s. 6d. "A comprehensive digest of every subject connected with the legal care of the insane."—Meaxal Times. A Lunacy Chart: being a Synopsis of the Lunacy Acts, and having special reference to the management and care of persons of Unsound Mind. By the same Author, \s. 6d. Varnished and mounted on canvas and rollers, 4^. 6d. Spiritualistic Madness. By the same Author, \s. Hints for Hospital Wurses. By Mesdames Williams Rachael and Alice Fisher. 2s. 6d. Cholera: how to Prevent and Resist it. By Professor von Pettenkofer, Professor of Hygiene, University of Munich, President of the Sanitary Department of the German Empire; and Thomas Whiteside Hime, A.B., M.B., Lecturer on Medicine at the Sheffield School of Medicine, Illustrated with Woodcuts and Diagram, 3^. 6d. Diarrhoea and Cholera : their Successful Treatment. By John Chapman, M.D., M.R.C.P. London, is. 6d. "His arguments are enforced at great length in the pamphlet before us, and are supported by an extensive array of facts."—Medical Times. Causes of Cholera: its Treatment. By Wm Grove Grady., M.D., M.R.C.S. is. How to Prevent Small Pox. By Mordey Douglas, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P Third edit., 6d. "This is a very valuable pamphlet."—Medical Press.' The Physiology of Intestinal Obstruction and Constipa- tioD, in certain cases, and in certain persons. By Chas. J. Harris, M.R.C.S. is. Sterility: its Causes and Treatment. Read before the Medical Society of London, by L B. Brown, F.R.C.S., late Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Diseases of Women, at St. Mary's Hospital (printed by request), is.