103 INFLAMMATION. year on the same disease, have waged controyersy on this subject; and not nnfrequently it has seemed probable that medical juries, inquesting any given dead patient, would divide in equal numbers, whether much bleeding or little bleeding had killed the man. In explanation of this anomaly the same author urges that, prac- tically, all impartial observers seem now to agree, that while there are inflammations which bleeding can relieve, yet there are also inflamma- tions wliich every act of depletion, instead of diminishing, will increase. And the obvious inference from this fact is one which, certainly, the pathology of inflammation would indicate—that the therapeutical value of blood-letting does not so much consist in its directly controlling inflammatory excitement, as in its controlling some condition, which may or may not be concomitant. What, then, is this condition ? Reserving for a moment that which Mr. Simon suggests, I would first notice another. Forcible contractile action of the heart, with a strong pulse, un- doubtedly maintains the local determination of blood; although this latter may be aided by the accelerated nutritive changes of the part itself, using up the plasma supplied, and thereby continuously eliciting exudation from the capillary vessels. Greneral blood-letting, by venesection, powerfully relieves the action of the heart, even to syncope. But, with inflammatory fever, the system is more tolerant of loss of blood than in health, or other diseases. This increased tolerance was first clearly shown by Dr. Marshall Hall, the results of whose investigations are given in the following table, which represents, as compared with health, the mean quantity lost before incipient syncope is induced, the patient being in the sitting or the erect posture :— 1. Healthy Tolerance: This depends on the age, sex, strength, etc., and on the degree of thickness of the parietes of the heart; but it is about . . . . . j xv. 2. Increased Tolerance: Congestion of the brain . . . . . j xl.—I. Inflammation of serous membranes . . . ] Inflammation of synovial membranes . . . >^xxs:.—xl. Inflammation of fibrous membranes . . . j Inflammation of the parenchyma of organs— brain, lung, liver, mamma, etc. . . . q xxx. Inflammation of skin and mucous membranes, erysipelas, bronchitis, dysentery . . .5 3. Diminished Tolerance: Fevers—eruptive and others . . . . j xi.—xiv. Delirium tremens, and puerperal delirium . . J x.—xii. Laceration or concussion of the brain . . ^ Accidents, before the establishment of inflam- ( w ... mation H viu.—x. Intestinal irritation . . . . . .) Dyspepsia, chlorosis ^ viii. Cholera vi. The condition to which Mr. Simon refers as deserving especial