INFLAMMATION. 73 stitutionally, its operation was ti'aced in the origin and development or the pathology of inflammatory fever. Course and Terminations.—Inflammation may proceed to either of four Terminations : Resolution, or disappearance ; Effusion, or lymph- production ; Suppuration, or pus-formation ; Ulceration and Mortifica- tion, or death of texture. Excepting the first of these terminations, that of resolution or simply cessation of inflammation, the line of de- marcation between each of the remaining three modes of termination, is indistinct, and they are commonly more or less combined. A more definite line of distinction may be drawn between them, by regarding the course of inflammation in reference to its two principal constituent elements; increased productiveness, and increased destruction, of texture. According as one or other of these predominates, so may we associate therewith the remaining terminations of inflammation respectively ; as efEusion, and suppuration ; ulceration and gangrene. 1. Resolution.—Inflammation may subside and terminate without any permanent structural result. The redness fades away, the part recovers its healthy tempei'ature, slight swelling if perceptible sub- sides, and exalted sensibility or pain ceases; while any inflammatory fever passes off. This is resolution; a termination of inflammation by the concurrent cessation of all the elements of this process ; and consequently, the cessation of its local and constitutional mani- festations. 2. Productiveness may predominate ; then. Inflammation proceeds to Effusion, or, perhaps, Supfmration—an increase of new material in the part, beyond the small proportion which necessarily attends inflamma- tion. Liquor sanguinis appears, consisting of coagulable lymph and serum. In the latter constituent, the proportion of albumen and of salts is increased ; but of these there is a larger proportion of chloride of sodium and phosphates than in the blood, as shown by Lehmann, and Dr. L. Beale. Three conditions of lymph may be distinguished by tolerably well marked structural characters; the fibrinous and the corpuscular of Paget, and a transition condition, consisting of both fibrils (filaments) and cells, the latter predominating. Similar susceptibilities of organi- zation represent the varieties noticed by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, as the euplastic, aplastic, and cacoplastic. They differ also in point of vascu- larity, in the course of theu' development. With these typical conditions of structure are associated tolerably definite physical properties. Fibrinous or Euplastic lymph—trans- paret, nearly colourless, and tenacious. Corpuscular or Aplastic lymph—opaque, yellow, diffluent. Transition condition or Cacoplastic lymph—opaquish, yellowish, and less tenacious than the euplastic type. These characters are more clearly contrasted when placed in juxtaposition. LYMPH. Fibrinous. Transition condition. Corpuscular. Physical (Transparent Opaquisli- Opaque. properties ] C-olou^'less. Yellowish. Yellow. ^ ^ \ Tenacious. Tenacity less. Diffluent. ( Fibrils. Cells. Cells. Structure < Cells. Fibrils. Granules. ( Blood-vessels. Blood-vessels few. Blood-vessels absent. Ex. False membrances. Ex. Cirrhosis. Ex, Pus. V