SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 538 Fig. IGO.* Fig. 160), entering the forearm between tbe attachments of the flexor ulaaris to the inner condyle and olecranon, approaches the artery under cover of tbat muscle, and from about the middle of tbe forearm, continues down on the inner side of the vessel to the wrist; the nerve being even more concealed by the flexor ulnaris tendon. A small brancb of this nerve descends in front of the lower part of tbe artery, to tbe skin of the palm; both artery and nerve passing over the annular ligament to the hand. The median nerve, to the inner side of the vessel at its commencement, crosses over to tbe outer side, and loses all relation to the artery. Throughout its course, the ulnar artery is covered by the skin, super- ficial and deep fascia, as well as by the superficial layer of muscles, above; below, only by the integuments. The named branches of this artery are five: anterior ulnar recurrent, and posterior ulnar recurrent, both arising close to the elbow-joint and passing upwards to com- plete the anastomosis around the joint; the interosseous trunk, the largest brancb given off, passes backwards to the interosseous membrane, there dividing into anterior and posterior branches; the metacarpal brancb, arising near the wrist; and carpal branches, anterior and posterior, anastomosing with corresponding offsets of the radial, across the front and back of the wrist. Neither of these branches is important in the operation of applying a ligature to the ulnar trunk, except the third or interos- seous. Operation.—In the uijper or deeper part, an incision along the radial border of the flexor carpi ulnaris will lead down to the vessel as it lies between this muscle and the flexor digitorum sublimis (see Fig. 159) ; the fibres of the former muscle being distinguished by their more vertical direc- tion from those of the sublimis, obliquely crossing the line of incision. Separating these muscles, the ulnar nerve will probably be out of tbe way, internally; the artery is seen and the ligature passed. More difiiculty, however, may be experienced in a * Deep view of Arteries in the Forearm.—a, pronator radii teres muscle, n flexor longiis pollicis; c, flexor digitorum profundus; e, flexor carpi ulnaris; F, supinator longus; a, radial artery; h, cutaneous palmar branch; G, artery; d, recurrent branch; e, anterior interosseous artery; /, branch with median nerve; g, brachial trunk. 1. Median Cutaneous palmar branch. 4. Ulnar nerve. " Illustrations of Dissections.") nerve. 2. Anterior interosseous. 3. 5. Cutaneous palmar branch. (Ellis,