SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 562 aided by this amount of surgical interference. Any earlier or more actual amputation -would occasion some haemorrhage, or might excite inflammation, and thus perhaps start the gangrene afresh. The ulcer left by the part removed, is a simple or healthy, healing sore. There- fore, during gi-auulation and cicatrization, water-dressing may suffice, or a slightly stimulant lotion, as balsam of Peru, pure or diluted, with an equal part of yolk of egg. Subsequently, the internal cause of gangrene—ossification of the arteries—still being persistent, exposure to cold must ever be avoided, and the circulation cherished by the patient wearing thick woollen socks and flannel drawers. Constitutional treatment will depend on the stage of the disease. During the typlioidal fever consequent on gangrene, prior to closure of the vessels, supporting measures are indicated; an easily assimilated diet of principally animal food, with malt liquor, and wine or alcoholic stimulants. Bark, ammonia, and chlorate of potash should be re- garded as accessory only, in the form of a medicinal tonic and stimu- lant ; a judicious restriction, which Sir B. Brodie more particularly inculcated. Opium is peculiarly eflficacious; the tincture being given in small but repeated doses, to the amount of two to four grains in the twenty-four hours, and increased as the system is brought under its influence. The value of opium in senile gangrene was, I believe, originally advocated by Pott, and it is confirmed by the experience of Dupuytren, and of most modern Surgeons. But the supervention of headache or any disturbance of the digestive organs would suggest its discontinuance ; even then, the hypodermic injection of morphia offers an advantageous substitute for its internal administration. During the inflammatory fever which accompanies occlusion of the vessels, in the separation of the gangrenous part, or when such febrile commotion may be otherwise present, opium should still be adminstered, to supjDress the nervous excitement, while it sustains adhesive inflam- mation, and the general circulation and strength be supported by moderate diet, with a mild tonic and stimulant plan of treatment. Topical measures to regulate the inflammation would probably provoke gangrene. VEINS. CHAPTER XXIX. INJURIES. VARICOSE VEINS.—PHLEBITIS. Wounds oe Veins.—See Wounds, Ch. XVI. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism,—See Aneurism, Ch. XXV. Varicose Veins, or Varix.—Structural Conditions and Diagnosfie Characters.—Varix signifies an enlarged, elongated, knotty, and tortu-