SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 824 as to their elaborate methods of application will bo found in Dr " l^ectures on Orthopedic Surgery and Diseases of the Joints p. 2b2. ' Contraction of the hip—as Sayre'fi " 187G, the result of joint-disease—may be counteracted by the annexed ap- paratus (Fig. 441), which success- fully combats each abnormal mal- position of the limb. The pelvic band bears two lateral uprights, upon which the armpits rest, and from which strong laced bands pass around the thorax. This instru- ment is especially adapted for cases of severe hip-contraction. Abscess should be opened to pre- vent burrowing of the matter among the muscles. The situation of point- ing is selected, usually about an inch above and behind the great trochanter. For the convenience of dressing, a long " interrupted" splint may be used. The general treatment, medicinal and hygienic, consists in a course of iron, quinine, cod-liver oil, and nutritious diet, with as much pure air as possible. I have very beneficially placed my hospital patients in bed in the quad- rangle of the hospital, for some hours daily, weather permitting. This plan of treatment must be —^ pursued for a considerable period—■ =^ some weeks or months—to solicit anchylosis; or the subsidence of the diaease, possibly, after dislocation, and a free discharge of matter with the detritus of the carious bone. Failing thus to bring the disease to a termination, and the general liealth beginning to decline, operative interference becomes imperative. This will he considered under Excision of the Hip. Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis or Arthritis.—Morbus Cox.« Senilis.—Structural Gonditimi.—This disease contrasts with scrofulous disease of the hip-joint, principally in the formation of osseous de- positions or outgrowths around the joint, and in the absence of sup- puration. Signs, and Diagnosis.—Commencing with stiffness and aching pains in the joint, both of which are somewhat relieved by exercise, at length a grating attrition, which can be both felt and heard wheu the joint is moved, affords characteristic evidence of the disease; coupled with its dry character,—the absence of suppuration in the jf)int, and its consequences,—the swelling of abscess and the dis- charging sinuses which would ensue in scrofulous disease. Shortening of the limb to some extent occurs, as destruction of the articular cartilages takes place, with expansion of the head of the bone, and I