SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. G96 (Fig. 317.) be ■witlidrawu. sequestrum by separately; or, be extracted, undesirable, as Or again, it may be more convenient to divide tlie the same instrument, and extract either fragment by removing a central portion, either end-piece may The removal of any portion of the bony case is the new bone is not reproduced, and the limb would remain pi-oportionately weakened; care also must be taken not to damage the interior of the sheath. The cavity of the new bone, usually single, is sometimes multilocular, and each interspace may contain a sequestrum. Htemorrhage occurs freely during this operative procedure; the blood springing from the vascular soft parts around, or welling up from the new bone. It can generally be arrested by pressure; but in this, and other operations on bone, the Surgeon will find the advantage of Esmarch's elastic ligature around the limb, previously emptied of blood by means of the elastic roller. The bottom of the wound should be lightly dressed with lint; any inflam- mation consequent on the operation must be subdued by ordinary treatment; and eventually the limb should be supported by a starched bandage until granulation is complete, and the bony case has acquired sufiicient strength to bear the weight of the body or the movements of the part. I have thus, from time to time, removed several loose sequestra from the lower half of the shaft of a femur; guided by the sinuses, and preserving the osseous case which had formed around the bone. In a compound fracture of the tibia with death of the periosteum, the end of the upper fragment, to an inch and a half in extent, separated as a sequestrum, which I removed, together with several small scaly and spiculous portions from the lower fragment. Union ensued, but imperfect consolidation ; a slight hinge-like mobility remaining for some months. An exfoliation may be thrown off naturally; but this process will be much facilitated surgically by incisions, when the dead portion has separated. Excision of the ivliole of the bone necrosed, or short of its articular end.—This operation may, occasionally, be had recourse to in extensive necrosis. Thus, the lower jaw has not unfrequently been removed for necrosis caused by the fumes of phos^jhorus. The entire shaft of the radius, leaving its articular ends, was excised by Mr. Savory, on account of necrosis ; and afterwards, the bone was reproduced from either end to such an extent, that in eight months there remained an interval of only an inch and a half, and this appeared to be gradually diminishing. The fibula also has been excised. Removal of the ungual phalanx of a finger, for necrosis from whitlow, has proved jDerfectly successful in Fig. 317. preserving the end o£ the fin2:er. These re- suits are sufficient to encourage the practice of excision in other cases of extensive ne crosis. In operations for bone-excision, in necrosis, as of the lowe jaw, a short, narrow-bladed saw will often be found very convenient. Amputation must be regarded as an extreme resource, but justifiable as a sacrifice of the limb for the preservation of life. In necrosis involving the neighbouring joints, or where the limb has become IL«wMMW^M^^^J^*m^^^^lW*»^^^^^^^