SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURaERY. 370 12 amputations in the upper limb, in each of the periods referred to. Of the 12 cases before the antiseptic period, 6 died; but of the 12 during tha,t period, only 1 died, and 11 recovered. The deaths were caused, principally, by pysemia, erysipelas, and hospital gangrene. Thence, it would appear, may be inferred " the effects of the antiseptic system of treatment upon the salubrity of a Surgical Hospital." * But my long experience at the Royal Free Hospital is decidedly in favour of those precautionary hygienic arrangements, with reference to cleanliness and ventilation especially, which may be denominated _pre-septicism, and which render the antagonistic measures of miti- septicism quite useless, and, indeed, unnecessary. After-dressing.—An incised wound should not be disturbed incon- siderately during the process of adhesion. Inflammation can scarcely be said to supervene. In the first instance, it starts this reparative pro- cess. Attended with a slight pouting and redness of the lips of the wound, this salutary degree of inflammation should not be repressed ; and, being transient, inflammatoiy fever is not excited, from first to last, if the wound, however extensive and deep, continues to heal by adhesion. The constitution remains calm and impassive throughout the process, taking little or no notice of the local reparation effected by the part itself. Consequently, no antiphlogistic treatment, topical or general, becomes necessary ; but the lightest dressings to maintain apposition, and the gentlest handling in applying them, are still sufficient. The first di'essing is not unfrequently the only one nature requires ; the wound healing in two or three days, possibly in twenty-four hours. But union is not then secure, nor much before the end of a week in small wounds, and a fortnight in larger incisions. Therefore, during even the shortest period requisite for sound union, the dressings must be changed occasionally; their reapplication having reference always to some obvious and important purpose. Cleanliness, rather than readjustment of the wound, is the guiding maxim for interference. The strip of lint is to be withdrawn wet, not to disturb the lips of the wound, as yet tenderly united. The strips of plaster, also moistened to facilitate their removal, are withdrawn by both ends together gently towards the line of incision, not to undo the work of nature; and each strip is replaced by a fresh one before the next is removed, not to leave any part unsupported. To moisten the dressings, a piece of lint is preferable to a sponge, which might be accidentally re-used in another dressing, or from another patient; and in cleansing the wound, a light stream of tepid water should be squeezed from the lint, to wash away, instead of wiping off, any discharge. The removal of sutures, if any, will be guided by the progress of adhesion, or by the accidental super- vention of inflammation. Within the first twenty-four hours, some, at least, may become useless, or worse,—irritating. These sutures should be picked out, wherever, from point to point, union appears safe, or the blush of inflammation is conspicuous. OtherAvise they will ulcei*ate their way through, and so peril the healing progress. In the event of considerable swelling and tension, the lips of the wound having a tightly puckered appearance at the point of each suture, and a pouting or protruding condition in their intervals, all the sutui-es must be * I gathered the foregoing description of the antiseptic treatment, and its results,/rom several monographs which Mr. Lister kmdly forwarded to me for this purpose, in the first edition of this work.