into connective tissue, so 571 Fig. 181.* THROMBUS. part in the thrombus, althougli sometimes the softening may commence in the coagulum last formed. An apj^areiit suppurative phlebitis may, therefore, arise from the softened ti'ansformation of a thrombus, without any inflammation of the vessel, according to the interpretation which Virchow originally advanced ; but Billroth affirms also the possible conversion of a thrombus into pus—that if the blood-cells in a thrombus have the power of changing may pus be formed from them, just as from cells wandering out of the vessels. This purulent, not puriform, transmutation of a thrombus induces inflam- mation of the vessels, the walls becoming thickened, and thus a real suppurative phlebitis is established. The same eminent pathologist is led by his observations to refer the origin of most venous thrombi to very acute inflammation of cel- lular tissue, and in his experience the changes which the clot within the vessel undergoes, are the same as of the inflammatory new formation. If the latter becomes organized into tissue, so also is the clot developed into connective tissue ; but when the infl.ammation issues in suppuration, the thrombus also softens and suppurates. We proceed to trace the yet further history of Thrombus from Virchow's view of softening by fibrinous disintegration. Embolism.—The friable thrombus which results from softening of a blood-clot within a vein, is ready for disintegration or disruption into fragments of variable size, any one or more of which shall be transmitted by the blood-stream through other veins into parts perhaps remote, until reaching vessels too small for their onward passage, the fibrinous fragments there become impacted; this process of fibrine- transference and impacted state of the vessels is known as embolism, and the impacted fragment is named an embolus or embolon. These terms are, however, applicable also to the similar history of a thrombus- fragment in the arteries, which are thus subject to embolism (Fig. 182) ; and an embolus may be any other foreign body, as a bit of atheromatous or calcareous matter. But it is only under certain cir- cumstances that embolism from the disintegration of a thrombus seems likely to arise. The thrombosed vessel itself is occluded, so that no fragment of the clot can be carried thence by the blood-stream into the circulation. But when the thrombus is prolonged into * Transverse section of an artery, closed with a thrombus, six days old, showing ■white blood-cells, mostly round and greatly increased in number, the rod blood-cells having disappeared; also ccll-infdtration in the outer coat of the vessel and sur- rounding connective tissue. 300 diam. (Billroth.)