239 SCURVY AND PURPURA. one plant cannot be substituted for another—prior to actual experience of its anti-scorbutic value—with the sure and certain prediction that it will pi'ove equally efficacious, or more so. And why are we still ignorant of this "essential element," and incapable, consequently, of substituting an untried for a known anti-scorbutic ? Because the blood-condition essential to scurvy is yet unknown, and that some- thing, by virtue of which various plants are anti-scorbutic, is therefore equally unknown. Accordingly, the prevention of scurvy can be determined only by the results of actual experience. Mark the further consequences of this empiricism. If j)otasli were assuredly known to be the thing in question, it could be procured in almost any emergency from the ashes of any plant or of any wood, and especially, as Dr. Garrod has suggested, from that ubiquitous weed, tobacco, which is rich in potash. In the present state of knowledge, the commissariat of an army, a navy, or commercial marine—ever liable to be placed in straitened circumstances with regard to all food—are in the dark on this most critical point. In encampments far from home, during sieges and long voyages, the allowance of lemon-juice has perhaps long been exhausted, and fresh vegetables are a dream ; when, therefore, under these adverse circumstances, scurvy stealthily threatens, with pallid hue and dejected mien, the light of Pathological Chemistry would supply an unerring guide in search of that yet unknown something—be it potash or what- ever else—by which the impending scourge would assuredly be averted. It might be possible, by a simple process perhaps, to extract that needful something from an abundant source at hand, in a locality otherwise well-nigh barren and desolate. To conclude, on behalf of the prevention of this disease; any new and untried kind of food cannot be suhstituted, in an emergency, for another less plentiful; and, should all food run short, then the essen- tially anti-scorbutic constituent cannot be extracted from substances perchance close at hand, in which, like a precious pearl, it remains undiscovei'ed, while scurvy is already overshadowing its victims. Empirical experience is our only resource under these circum- stances, and the rules which it authorizes for our guidance are neces- sarily of a very general character. They are enumerated by Dr. Budd as follows:— Firstly.^—Anti-scorbutic properties reside exclusively in substances of vegetable origin. Secondly.—These properties ai'e possessed in very different degrees by different families of plants; least so by the farinaceous, as wheat, oats, barley; most so by the succulent, as the aurantise, comprising oranges and lemons; lastly, by potatoes. Thirdly.—The anti-scorbutic property is impaired by the action of strong heat; nevertheless, boiled potatoes are anti-scorbutic (Dr. W. Baly) ; impaired, also, by vinous fermentation, but improved probably by acetous fermentation. To show the difficulty of determining the essential treatment of scurvy empirically, I might add, in striking contrast, the conclusions of Sir R. Christison in favour of azotized substances, and of animal origin, perhaps exclusively, such as milk. I'urj)ura.—Although resembling scurvy in appearance, the curative treatment of purpura, by abstinence, purgation, and venesection, as