766 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Hamilton, as from fifteen to thirty, but tliat the next, and nearly I equal, order of frequency is from thirty to forty-five years. These I slight differences of statement are due to the diiferent ages at which I each series of cases commenced, and they tend to confirm the general P result. Males are more liable than females to dislocation of the hipjj owing to the more oblique direction of the neck in relation to tmm shaft of the femur, and also to the accidents, in the various occud^B tions of the former sex, which cause dislocation. '^I Unrednced dislocation of the hip backwards proceeds to the forma^ tion of a new joint; the pathology of which may be regarded as the I type of any such compensatory construction, and is, therefore, cou-B sidered in the general history of Dislocation. I Cases are on record showing the efficiency of the limb eventually, in I a state of unreduced dislocation; one—related by Hamilton—afterB nine yeai's' dislocation on the dorsum, where a young man could walk* rapidly, althotigh with a halt, yet without pain and discomfort; iaj another case, after only eight weeks' dislocation into the sciatic notch,! the limb was quite useful. Reduction of dislocation on the dorsum is, i generally, followed by speedy recovery of the use of the limb ; in the course of a few weeks or months at most, the limb becoming as useful as before. The same may be said in favour of dislocation into the sciatic notch; reduction soon restores the thorough efficiency of the limb. But, after an unusual force or prolongation of extension, I have seen a permanent muscular weakness and limping lameness result; without, however, any recurrence of dislocation. Treatment.—Chloroform should always be administered—unless specially contra-indicated—to relax the muscles. A warm bath may be substituted for the relaxing influence of chloroform, in exceptional cases. Reduction can then be efi^ected in either of two ways: by ex- tension and counter-extension of the limb, pulleys being necessary to overcome the muscular resistance and its duration, in most cases; or by flexing the limb on the thigh, and guiding it so into position, that the muscles themselves, probably, complete the reduction—constituting the method by " manipulation." (1.) Extension and Gounter-Bxtension.—The patient must be placed on his back, inclining to the side opposite to that of dislocation ; and sufficiently raised from the ground on a bed or table, that the long axis of the thigh may be in a line with the force of extension, resisted by counter-extension, which should be applied in the following manner. (Pig. 377.) A padded belt is fastened round the lower part of the thigh, having a double strap attached to it, terminating in a ring; to the latter a multiplying pair of pulleys, of three cords, is hooked, whereby extension is brought into operation; the distal pulley