MORBID CICATRICES. 419 beino" necessary, and not even then a guarantee of non-recurrence; but a recurrent growth of this kind is not more intractable than the original one. Plastic operations, planned according to the particular case, are available for the cure either of excessive or of cheloid cicatrix. The chief general rules for such operations may be thus stated:—That if the scar is to be removed, so as to bring healthy structures together for union in its place, no portion whatever of its substance should be left; that scar-tissues should not be used for the formation of flaps, or relied on for any speedy or sound union; that if the scar or part of it is to be included in any flap for sliding or transplanting, all the borders and surfaces of such flap intended for union should, if possible, be of healthy structure, and not themselves parts of the scar; and that flaps should not be dependent on scar-tissues for their supplies of blood. (3.) Painful Cicatrix.—Commonly arising from adhesion of the sub- jacent nerves to the skin or bone, and not attributable to bulbous enlargement of their cut extremities; the cicatrix of any wound may thus be painful, although most frequently that of a stump after ampu- tation. Usually, the cicatrix-tissue is sound, but the nerves are sub- ject to constant irritation or inflammation, varying with the mobility and movement of the part. Neuralgic pain, of an excruciating and paroxysmal character, is due rather to some constitutional cause affect- ing a cicatrix, still healthy in itself. This condition may supervene long after the cicatrix is completely formed, and has loosened from any subjacent adhesions in the natural course of healing. Treatment.—Free subcutaneous section is almost sure to prove re- medial, when the pain arises from adhesion of the cicatrix. It is readily accomplished by introducing a tenotomy knife from the centre of the part, which usually remains open as an intractable ulcer, and sweeping round the cicatrix, to beyond its circumference. In this way I succeeded in permanently curing a painful, adherent cicatrix ( over the projecting head of the astragalus, after Ohopart's operation, i I found it necessary, however, to remove a portion of the bone, in order 1 to bring the margins of the ulcer together; and to divide the tendo- Achillis in order to prevent retraction of the stump and tilting forward i: of the astragalus, as was the case before the operation. The result was • that the pain ceased and the ulcer healed over the stump, the tendon ' was lengthened by gradual extension of the foot after operation, and the man walked well on the flat of the stump to the ground. This result was the more noteworthy, considering that, as a crucial experi- ment, I had previously divided the tendo-Achillis without any efEect on the cicatrix. After amputation in the upper third of the leg, I have had recourse to subcutaneous section of the cicatrix, when adherent to the tibia. Neuralgic pain can only be cured, if at all, by consti- tutional treatment; chiefly by quinine, and careful regulation of the bowels. The topical application of aconitina will often temporarily allay this pain; a grain of the best preparation of the alkaloid to " drachm of lard, in the form of an ointment applied from time to time. (4.) Ulceration, (md. other morhid changes, growths {md degenerations, ■ttecting cicatrix-tissues, follow the same pathological laws as in other tractures; and are amenable to the same treatment, accordingly.