781 DISLOCATIONS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. when tlie foot is made fast in a hole, and the tibia twisted upon the femur by the body swinging around upon the knee ; or by a fall from some height, or by the individual jumping from a carriage in motion. Direct violence is represented by a blow upon the upper end of the tibia, or upon the lower end of the femur. In one remarkable case, recurring dislocation backwards was produced, as it seemed to me, by hydrops articidi. The head of the tibia passed backwards whenever the patient, a woman, bore any weight on her foot and attempted to walk. Similar dislocation, or a tendency thereto, is not an un- common result of disease of the knee-joint, with retraction of the leg, causing the end of the femur to project forwards in standing or walking. Unreduced dislocation of the worst form, or backwards, may termi- nate in the recovery of a tolerably useful limb. Three such incomplete dislocations, backwards and unreduced, have been seen by Malgaigne, and neither of the persons thus affected were very greatly maimed in consequence. One walked with crutches after three or four days, and with a cane after about five weeks. Another did not leave his bed under one month, and it was nearly one year before he could lay aside his crutches ; but both of these individuals were finally able to walk at least twelve leagues a day. In a similar case seen by Lassus, the patient was confined to bed two years, yet he finally recovered a toler- able use of his limb. Reduction, promptly effected, with sufficient rest of the limb, is followed by sound recovery or very little, if any, maiming ultimately. This issue may be hopefully anticipated even when dislocation has occurred repeatedly at distant intervals, as hap- pened in Mr. Pitt's case; although in such cases the knee remains weak. Treatment.—Reduction can be accomplished, in the same way, in each form of dislocation of the knee. Flexing the thigh towards the abdomen, and fixing it for counter-extension, extension is then applied to the leg, in the direction of the long axis of the displaced tibia; pressure being made, at the same time, on the ends of the bones in opposite directions, so as to overcome the displacement. Thus, pres- sure should be applied laterally, on the head of the tibia in particular, inwards or outwards, according to these forms of dislocation; and on the same bone, downwards and backwards, in forward dislocation ; or downwards and forwards, in backward dislocation. Splints should be employed to fix the joint, and the appropriate measures also for sub- duing inflammatory swelling, which is often considerable. At the end of two, three, or four weeks, according to circumstances, passive motion may be used gently at intervals, and the joint allowed gradu- ally to resume its functions. Manipulation will perhaps succeed in effecting reduction, when the dislocation is incomplete and recent. The leg should be carried in whatever directions it moves most readily; or, this failing, forced flexion and extension may be tried, at the same time twisting the leg a little from side to side, with pressure upon the ends of bone in. opposite directions, to bring about replacement. Internal Derangement of the Knee-joint—so named by Hey, who first described it—or subluxation of the knee, sometimes so called. This accident is not uncommon. The strttctural condition is, probably, a partial dislodgmcnt of one of the semilunar cartilages, owing to a disruption of its ligamentous