581 FBACTUEE. mucli displacement, or if soft tissue of any kind intervene between the fragments, or if some days laave elapsed since the accident. In young children also, I have noticed that crepitus is less perceptible. The deformity of the limb, and the elevation or depression at the immediate seat of the injury, may be absent; as in impacted fracture, and in fracture without displacement; and these signs are less pro- nounced than usual, when one only of two companion bones is broken, I the other resisting and supporting as a splint. Shortening also is absent in the latter two conditions, and takes place to a much less degree with impaction. The most difficult case is this : a fracture of I one of two companion bones in the leg or forearm, and in a muscular subject, and when considerable swelling has supervened. There is no shortening and no angular deformity, no crepitation can be felt, and mobility of the broken portions is obscured by the swollen cushion of soft tissues surrounding the seat of fracture. But if the signs of fracture be j^reseii^, they may, severally, arise from other causes; with one exception, namely, mobility in the continuity of a bone. This can arise only from fracture. Crepitation may attend the play of the tendons in their sheaths, in connection with inflamma- tion ; but the creaking, jerking crepitation thus produced, differs from the rough grating of broken bone. The altered contour of the limb, and of the part at the seat of supposed fracture, and the shortening of the limb may arise from a previous fracture, interstitial absorption, or other disease of the bone, or from deformity, congenital or acquired, as rickets or moUities ossium. In the proximity of a joint, these signs may be due to dislocation; but the absence of crepitation and of mo- bility, or the fact of immobility, are the turning points of the diagnosis. It appears, then, that no physical sign taken singly, except one— mobility—is pathognomonic of fracture, and that any one sign may be absent; but all these signs taken collectively, determine the diagnosis. Functional symptoms, singly or combined, are insufficient; yet their concurrence further establishes the diagnosis. Separation of an epiphysis at the extremity of a long bone simulates dislocation, in regard to the deformity of, or closely adjoining, the articulation; but mobility and crepitation are distinctive. The age will also be suggestive. Causes, external and internal; and effects of Fracture.—Fracture is produced, in general, by external force, suddenly applied, either directly to the part, or indirectly at a distance; but occasionally, it is the result of the sudden and powerful action of muscles, as in fracture of the patella, not unfrequently. Predisposing causes are numerous and very influential. Some relate to the functional uses of the bone ; thus, the radius is liable to fracture in the manifold use of the hand ; others are anatomical predisposing conditions, as the exposed position of a bone—the tibia, for example—and brittleness of the osseous texture, as a condition consequent on age. Separation of an epiphysis, as at the lower end of the humerus, is a species of fracture incident to youth. Certain blood-diseases also apparently have some predisposing influence in the production of fracture; rickets, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy. Fracture is attended with shock, in a greater or less degree, followed by reaction ; or, if the latter be accompanied with exhaustion, a mixed state of prostration with excitement supervenes, constituting traumatic L