283 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. This mefhod of treatment, originated by M. Auzias-Tnrenne, about 1845, and adopted by M. Sperino, is specially advocated by Professor Boeck, of Christiania, with reference to constitutional syphilis ; and, in 1865, he visited this country to inculcate his views by practical illustra- tion in the Lock Hospital. The matter from a primary syphilitic ulcer, hard or soft, the former being preferable, or that from the artificial sore of a patient undergoing syphilization, is inoculated or introduced, in the same way as vaccine matter. To prevent large ulcers and cicatrices, the inoculations are commenced on the side of the trunk. Three inoculations are made on each side. After three days, pustules will have formed, and fi'om these, other inoculations are then made. This is repeated every third day, the matter being always taken from the last pustules, nntil no further effect can be produced with this matter. Fresh matter is now introduced, from another patient; pustules ensue as from the matter first used, but the pustules and ulcers resulting from this second matter are not nearly so large as those originally produced. A third matter elicits pustules and ulcers yet smaller and fewer in number ; until, ultimately, no matter applied to the sides will produce any specific effect. But the arms and thighs are still suscepti- ble to inoculation, either from fresh matter or from matter of the last pustule. The process is therefore now repeated on these parts in suc- cession, until there also an immunity is obtained. Ordinarily, this occurs in from three to four months. The conclusions arrived at by Professor Boeck are :— (1.) That artificial chancres on the sides and on the arms are always smaller than those on the thighs, and the series of inoculations shorter. (2.) By continued inocnlation the nlcers always become less and less, until at last inoculation gives a perfectly negative result. (3.) The inoculated individual grows insensible to one matter, but is still susceptible to another, yet in a lower degree; and again to a third matter, but in still lower degree; and so on until no further effect is produced by any matter. (4.) Immunity having been obtained on the sides and on the arms, it will still be possible to have rather a long series of inoculations on the thighs. All these phenomena are said to be constant; they do not occur in one individual and not in another; they will always be presented. "We have here an invariable law of nature." A saturation of the system with syphilis — according to MM. Auzias-Turenne and Sperino—is thus established; a syphilitic diathesis —according to Dr. Boeck—which, when once established, cannot be increased or intensified by the further inoculation of virulent matter. But the continued insertion of this matter stimulates the disease, and enables it to pass through its regular course; thus completing the series of phenomena which follow systemic syphilitic infection, in a far shorter period than if left to itself, or subjected to any other method of treatment. Relapses, and the supervention of the so-called tertiary disease, are therefore rarely found after this curative treatment; whilst the continued introduction of syphilitic matter into the system destroys, in a varying period of time, the susceptibility of the individual ; ultimately producing a local as well as a general immunity to the disease, which constitutes its preventive treatment.