GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 110 by the supervention of certain symptoms; just as the introduction of the syphilitic virus, for example, is followed,'in the course of time, by enlargement and ulceration of the tonsils, some definite skin eruption, and perhaps iritis ; symptoms declaring the syphilitic infection to have taken place. So far, then, there are certain effects specially due to the systemic influence of mercury. Formerly also, and until recently, it was unanimously held that the same influence prevented or retarded the effusion of fibrin, and promoted its absorption. That " the constitutional action of mercury opposes the organizing efforts of inflammation," is the somewhat equivalent expression of Mr. Simon. Does this represent the remedial virtue of mercury in the systemic or constitutional treatment of inflam- mation ? A good illustration of such influence was supposed to be, the visible disappearance of lymph in iritis, apparently under the operation of mercuriaHsm. Long as this therapeutic theory prevailed, and practice accordingly, there are reasons for doubting the accuracy of the one, and the efficacy of the other. That mercury exercises some kind of influence over nutrition, there can be no doubt; but it is questionable how far the natural course of inflammation, having induced the effusion of fibrin, may itself tend to absorption, apart from the co-operation of mercury. Mr. Simon limits the agency of mercury by the following qualifications: that, " if mercurial cachexia in its lesser degrees, and independently of the purging which may attend it, has a real effect on inflammatory products, this effect probably relates only to such products as are not organized, and perhaps is nothing more than the giving of some special assistance to the dissolution and removal of fibrin." Further clinical investigation is needed to determine the question at issue. Assuming the systemic influence of mercury upon inflammation, its remedial operation can be insured only by employing it in a certain class of cases, and with certain precautions. Both these practical requisites are generalized by Sir Thomas Watson, thus:— " In common adhesive inflammation, whether of the serous or areolar tissues; whenever, in fact, you have reason to think that coagulable lymph is effused, and mischief is likely to result from its presence, then you may expect benefit from the proper administration of mercury; as an auxiliary, however, to blood-letting, when blood- letting is indicated, not as a substitute for it Previous blood- letting renders the body more readily susceptible of the influence of mercury; and the operation of the mercury comes in aid of the salutary effects of the abstraction of blood. The two remedies accomplish by their joint power what neither of them might be able to accomplish singly. "On the other hand, mercury is likely to be hurtful in those forms of disease, where the morbid action approximates to its own action; in cases of erysipelatous inflammation having a disposition to gan- grene; in scrofulous diseases; in inflammatory complaints attended with general debility, and an irritable condition of the nervous system, or a manifest tendency to take on a low and typhus-like character." On behalf of the scrofulous diathesis, it is added that moderate sali-