649 LIGATURE OF THE ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. the latter nmscle crosses over the vessel to the inner side. The vencB coinites surround the artery with cross branches, particularly above. The anterior tibial nerve—a division of the external popliteal—winds round from below the head of the fibula between it and the peroneus longus muscle, then inwards beneath the extensor longus digitorum, and, between the tibialis anticus and ex- tensor longus, it inclines downwards to Fig. 1C8.* the artery about the middle of the leg; crossing the vessel once or twice in its course, the nerve is still external at the ankle-joint. Overlapped laterally by the fleshy bellies of the three muscles between which it lies, the artery is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and apo- neurotic fascia ; but beneath the anterior annular ligament, it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor pollicis from without inwards. The aponeurotic fascia is attached to the crest or spine of the tibia and to the outer margin of the shaft of the fibula; thus binding dovm the muscles in their relative position. Intermuscular septa, indicated by white vertical lines, pass in between the muscles, dividing them into three groups: an anterior extensor group of three, between the shafts of the tibia and fibula; an external or peroneal division of two, on the outer surface of the fibula; and the flexor muscles, on the back of the leg. The extensor muscles are separated by an intermuscular septum between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digi- torum. This septum can be readily recognized through the integuments when the foot is extended, the fleshy bellies of the muscles above rising up, and thus indicating the line of the septum. The anterior annular ligament of the ankle, a thickened portion of the aponeurotic fascia, consists of an upper and lower portion; in the latter there are three sheaths for the tendons of the extensor muscles—an inner one for the tibialis anticus, an outer for the extensor longus digitorum, and a middle intermediate sheath for the extensor pollicis. The artery behind the latter tendon is separated from it by the sheath. The tranches of the anterior tibial artery are muscular offsets and named branches: the recurrent, ascending in the tibialis anticus to the * Anterior Tibial Artery.—1. Tibialis anticus muscle. 2. Extensor pollicis and extensor longus digitorum muscles drawn outwards. 3. Part of the anterior annular ligament. 4. Anterior tibial artery; anterior tibial nerve external. (Quain, " Arteries," reduced.)