( 341 ) CHAPTER XIV. DELIRIUM TREMENS, 'No disease wliicli falls witliin the experience of the Surgeon, as well as of the purely Medical Practitioner, can compare with that which I am about to notice, in the wide range of its significance, and its interwoven association with other diseases. Not even Scrofula or Syphilis are more prevalent, in some form of constitutional affection or taint, than is that insidiously broken and degenerate state of the constitution which may be traced to habitual intemperance in the consumption of alcoholic stimulants, whether spirits, wine, or beer. But this view of the subject opens up the wide extent, and the rami- fications of the inquiry, into which we should have to enter, were I to attempt the full consideration of that "chronic alcoholism," to which, sometimes in the form of saturated sottishness, sometimes as " free living," or otherwise genteelly disguised, the people unhappily subject themselves. For here, alas ! the victim, and the sacrificing priest, are incorporated in one and the same person—^the " drinker," slain for the deity " Drink." The limits of a general work on Surgery will not allow me to do justice, if it were possible, to this theme; it must suffice to notice the incarnation of evil in its most pronounced form —" Delirium Tremens," or the Drunkard's disease. Symjjtoms.—As the name of the disease aptly implies, the leading symptoms are delirium, coupled with trembling movements, to which should be added sleeplessness, and a general depression of the nervo- muscular power; exhaustion sometimes underlying this state of wake- ful and tremulous delirium, so as to present a picture of " prostration with excitement." A person of intemperate habits has, for some days, looked dejected,—whether having the pallid, emaciated appearance commonly observed, or the florid and bloated face, with the fat and full-blown form, of other alcoholic habitues; he is restless by day, and sleepless at night; while a tremulous agitation of manner is exhibited in every movement,—particularly, perhaps, in a trepidation of speech, and a shaking unsteadiness of the hand, as in the act of writing, or buttoning the waistcoat; or even when the hand is not being used volun- tarily, yet it shakes, nor can the individual hold it steady. Then, he begins to wander in conversation, or to talk to himself ; and soon passes into that state of incoherence, that, coupled with other symptoms, no one can doubt an attack of delirium tremens has commenced. But the delirium is peculiar; it is essentially an active, or as it has been said, a "busy'' state of consciousness; in which the patient is always doing something under the spell of his own imagination. What that activity may be, seems to depend very much upon the individual's own pre- vious disposition and occupation. He may be busily engaged in some commercial transaction, or he would pursue some one against whom he has felt a grudge, or more often he is defending himself from some one who would injure him; but he never seems disposed to lay hands