536 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 158 * vessel; itself lying on the inner side of tlie biceps tendon with the median nerve more internal, by about half an inch. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism at the bend of the elbow, owing to communication of the brachial artery and median basilic vein', are both analogous conditions as to the operation for ligature in situ; but they present certain difficulties not met with when the artery alone is wounded. These complications have already been noticed— Aneurismal Varix. Ligature of the Eadtal Artery.—Surgical Anatomy.—The radial artery extends from the bifurcation of the brachial, opposite the neck of the radius, to the eiLd of this bone ; and thence posteriorly through the first in- terosseous space to the palm of the hand. It is thus found in the forearm, the back of the wrist, and palm. In direction, the continuation of the brachial, a line drawn from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the styloid process of the radius, will indicate the course of the radial in the fore- arm. More deeply placed above, between muscles, it becomes quite superficial below as it approaches the wrist. At first on the inner side of the radius, it soon lies over that bone, resting on the following muscles, in order, from above downwards: supin- ator brevis, tendon of pronator radii teres, radial origin of flexor sublimis, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus; and on the end of the radius, above the wrist. In the upper half of this course, the artery runs between the fleshy bellies of the supinator longus externally, and the pronator teres internally, being slightly overlaid by the former muscle; in the lower half, it is between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. (Fig. 158.) The radial nerve—a terminal branch of the musculo-spiral in front of the external condyle of the humerus—passes down under cover of the supinator to the outer side of, but not in contact with, the artery as far as the insertion of the pro- nator teres; then lying by the side of the vessel, the nerve passes backwards under the tendon of the supinator and becomes cutaneous, thus losing any immediate relation to the vessel. Throughout its course in the forearm, the artery is covered only by the skin, superficial fascia, and the deep or aponeurotic fascia. The named branches are three. The radial re- current, a branch of some size, is given oi¥ trans- versely under cover of the supinator longus muscle; it supplies the muscles on "the outer side of the forearm, and sends an * Eadial and Ulnar Arteries.—1. Kadial artery, and nerve external. 2. Ulnar artery, and nerve internal. 3. Pronator radii teres muscle. 4. Flexor carpi radialis. 5. Palmaris longus. 6. Flexor sublimis. 7. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 8. Supinator longus. 9. Biceps. 10. Palmar portion of ulnar artery. 11. Continued as super- ficial palmar arch, (Qnain, " Arteries," reduced.) 710