118 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. by those general hygienic arrangements, in regard to clean air and clean dressings, which prevent the necessity of having recourse to any antiseptic measures. In short, I advocate what may be termed 'pre- septicism, instead of an^isepticism, in the practice of Surgery. Why admit an enemy, in the shape of an impregnated atmosphere, to the bedside, and to the wound, of a patient; and then devise means to oppose the entrance of that enemy, through this breach, into the fortress of life ? Those Surgeons are to be pitied who seem compelled to practise the Art of Heahng, amid the perpetually adverse and embarrassing circumstances of foul air, and perhaps foul appliances, in aa Hospital which had far better be destroyed to below its founda- tion and rebuilt, or removed to another site—as in the case of the Norwich Hospital—and which should be constructed, and appointed, with the hygienic provisions for health to each patient. Otherwise, the Surgeon must ever be in battle with an unseen, subtle, and deadly foe; until, at last, from dire necessity, he invents some " antiseptic system of treatment," which is founded in conjecture, and, with ever- changing tactics, is followed in despair. Nevertheless, Professor Lister deserves great credit for the courage and skill he has so long dis- played in fighting this unequal battle with the shadow of death; by what further means of warfare, and the apparent conquests he has gained, will be seen in the treatment of Open Wounds. Fortunately, however, even under the unfavourable circumstances of the most insalubrious Hospital, an abscess can be opened without the slightest risk of any contaminating aerial influence, by a method which entirely precludes the admission of air, in the following manner:— Suhcutaneous pneumatic aspiration supplies the requisite method of drawing off a purulent collection, without the possibility of air entering the cavity of the abscess. A fine needle-like canula is thrust into the abscess, with a slight rotatory movement to facilitate the passage of this slender instrument, which is attached by a caoutchouc tube to a receiving bottle—the aspirator (Fig. 29)—from which the air has been Fig. 29. exhausted by means of a small pump. Needles of various sizes are used, according to the thickness of the fluid; and a small wire-stylet is provided to keep the passage clear. The purulent fluid is seen to pass into the bottle, descending in a steady stream, until it ends in dropping and may be slightly tinged with blood; when the needle should be withdrawn from the abscess. Now and then, a more complete vacuum may be maintained by working the pump.