COaiPOTJND FKACTURE. 599 appearances on removal of integuments.) But there was also (as represented) extensive laceration of the muscles, particularly of the tibiahs anticus muscle, which was torn aci'oss and thrown inwards over the tibia; the anterior tibial artery was torn through (as indicated by the lower pin in the figure), but the corresponding nerve and the musculo-cutaneous nerve (seen above) were entire. Here, then, in addition to the worst kind of fractiire of both bones, the conditions were present of inevitably profuse suppuration, by extensive laceration of the muscles, and of impending gangrene, by rupture of the anterior main artery. This injury was caused by contusion of the leg between a brewer's dray and a post, and I may add, therefore, another lesion had occurred—extensive detachment of the shin from the deep fascia of the limb, the superficial, cellular, or subcutaneous fascia being infiltrated Avith blood. It corresponded to the large sheath of integument thrown back in the figure. This condition I have found also in the dissection of many other limbs severely injured by direct violence. It may be present without any wound in the skin, or dis- colouration at first, and it may exist far beyond the apparent seat of injury, thus misleading the Surgeon as to the jjar^ proper for ampu- tation. The characteristic external appearance of this tyincal example of bad compound fracture is represented in the adjoining figure of the limb, as seen within a quarter of an hour after the accident. The swelling, of considerable size, corresponded to the lacerated and blood- engorged extensor muscles, and their displacement inwards over the tibia. Four apertures in the skin, the two upper communicating directly with the fracture, complete the picture. (2.) "When, however, the extent of damage is itself jiartial, the supervention of gangrene or of profuse suppuration is huiproportion- ately prolahle; the limb is not inevitably lost, nor the life surely perilled. Accordingly, the postponement of amputation until the actual supervention of either or both these local conditions—in other words, secondary amputation—should be the rule observed, in order to give the limb its chance of preservation; the safety of life being pro- vided for by timely amputation, under these circumstances. The question of amputation, and as primarily or secondarily, is determined by these pathological considerations. Certain rules, however, as to the urgency of amputation are laid down in surgical works, according to the extent of injury to the vessels, nerves, etc. Any such pathologico-anatomical conditions have signifi- cance only in proportion to the certainty or probability of gangrene or profuse suppuration supervening. I here omit the probabilities of secondary htemorrhage, exhaustion from shock, the occurrence of tetanus, erysipelas, or pytemia, as being contingencies which cannot be foretold, and some of which are preventible. >But observations of the course and tendency of compound fracture, in different doubtful cases of the other class, have not hitherto been sufficiently accurate and ample, to establish any such absolute rules of practice with respect to amputation; and less so when the necessarily unknown capabilities of the reparative power in different individuals are also taken into account. No Surgeon can positively determine whether amputation should be performed in a doubtful case; guided by this or that particular extent of injury, and in this or that individual; at diffei'ent periods of life also, from youth to age; and as subject to the modifying