149 TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. Treatment.—Cartilaginous tumour must be removed by surgical operation. The functional inutility of the part, owing to the size, increasing growth, and relations of the tumour, will determine the necessity for interference; as in regard to other non-recurring and non-malignant Growths. But the size to which it may grow is scarcely so much a consideration, as the firm attachment of the tumour to bone, in the great majority of cases. Amputation, therefore, rather than excision is indicated. The performance of the latter operation is aided by certain circumstances. The mass, usually lobulated, is defined by a tough capsule investing the whole surface, excepting at the base of attachment. Within bone, this investment is complete. In either case, the capsule is connected to the texture around, by a dry connective tissue which can be more or less readily split up. The hemorrhage is but slight, as occasioned by removal of the tumour, itself only sparingly vascular; and the surrounding textures are singularly healthy. Enucleation of a cartilaginous tumour from within bone is, observes Sir James Paget, more often practicable than practised. Recurrence need not be apprehended, otherwise than in exceptional cases. Any remnant portion of this kind of tumour will, according to Dieffenbach's observations, undergo ossification and become quiescent; but this result is uncertain. It should also be remembered that the part operated on may be rendered functionally useless, by the magnitude of an escisional procedure, or from tenosynovitis consequent on the interference with tendons in removal of the tumour. Thus, a finger subjected to such operation may become more useless than before. Myeloid tumour admits only of free excision or amputation, and as a recurring growth is far less favourable for operation. Vascular or Erectile Tumour.—Angioma.—Structural Gonditions, and Diagnostic Characters.—This tumour essentially consists of a conglomeration of blood-vessels, connected together, more or less in- timately, by fibre-cellular or con- nective tissue, which may form an investing capsule; the "whole being thus circumscribed as a distinct tumour, but of irregular shape, and perhaps lobed (Eig. 50) ; or, the mass not being distinctly isolated, is diffused, flattened, and shades off into the surrounding textures. The size or extent of such a mass, in either case, varies with the species and its growth, and is subject to temporary alterations, under cir- cumstances which will be noticed presently. Varieties.—Three varieties or species of this tumour are well defined, and easily recognised when formed in or under the skin. The constituent blood-vessels are capillaries, with arterial and venous * Section of an erectile tumour—showing the fibrous trabecular structure and investing capsule. (Hunter.)—Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons, Enf^iaud Dra^Yn one-third larger than the sj^ecimen. ° Fig. 50.*