CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 391 indeed, incisions, early and free, are imperative, to give vent to blood and pus, which, would otherwise rapidly putrify, and to prevent sloughing, or its progress. In sbort, any attempt to aid absorption would now be inappi'opriate, and the rule of treatment should be to anticipate if possible, or at least accompany, tbe work of destruction, and forthwith remove its results. Accordingly, in tbe event of ti'au- matic gangrene, amputation may become justifiable, as an extreme' and rare resource. Contused and Lacerated Wounds.—Structural Condition.—These forms of Injury, although nominally distinct, in regard to the kind of force by which they are produced, are essentially the same. A con- tused or a lacerated Wound is a sudden disintegration of tbe soft textures, with exposure to the action of tbe air. In the latter respect, wounds of this kind differ from contusion—a subcutaneous lesion ; and in virtue of the former particular; they diffisr from compound fracture and compound dislocation, wherein tbe lesion itself is not ex- clusively laceration of the soft textures, these parts being involved only by the injury. The characters of a lacerated wound are peculiar. It presents a torn, iiTegular surface or cavity, with more or less surrounding swelling and discolouration, owing to effusion of blood beneath the skin, or ecchymosis. Hgemorrhage from the wound itself is inconsiderable, the vessels being lacerated. With tbese external appearances, tbe degree of pain experienced would seem to be inversely proportionate to the extent and deptb of the laceration; for this kind of injury implies a ■ corresponding destruction and death of the textures. The pain is ' heavy and aching. The structural alterations produced by laceration, i and thence the characters of a lacerated wound, are somewhat modified by the extensibility, elasticity, contractility, and other properties of the 1 textures. The resulting appearances are most conspicuous when a ■ limb is drawn off, as by machinery; or abruptly struck off, as by gun- : shot injury. Some textures are comparatively unyielding, and their : torn extremities hang out of the stump ; others break off short within ; the general mass. Thus, the skin being tough and elastic, it either • yields higher than the included textures, or it retractsj exposing them ; the muscles protrude and are everted ; the tendons resisting with . greater tenacity, they hang out of the stump, or giving way higher up, they are pulled out of their sheaths ; nerves, for the most part, break off at the surface; the vessels, especially arteries, possessing consider- able elasticity, are drawn out to some length, their inner and middle coats yielding, while the external coat is prolonged over them; and as- their torn ends retract, they become less pendent and exposed than any other part of the stump ; lastly, the bone having broken off abruptly,, it forms the most prominent point. The stump, therefore, presents an irregular conical form, with the truncated bone as its apex. Causes of Lacerated Wound.—The force applied may be chiefly > lacerating, as when a leg is crushed by a railway carriage passing over the limb, or an arm is torn between two revolving cog-wheels ; or the violence may be chiefly contusing, as the kick of a horse, or the action ■ of a cannon-ball or other projectile. In either case the part is damaged ' beyond, and perhaps far beyond, the apparent extent of injury. The constitutional effects of the contused or lacerated wound are those already noticed with reference to other forms of Injury, and