GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 146 Fig. 46.t The probability of recurrence is uncertain. Any such tumour may be removed, apparently entirely, an indefinite number of times, and eacli interval may be of longer duration, even to some years apart, after repeated operations; thus prolonging life, and granting successive periods of ease. Or, as is usually the case, this history may be reversed; more rapid growth, and shorter intervals of freedom, larger operations, progressive exhaustion and death. Car tilaginous Tumour.—Enchondroma of Muller.—Structural Con- d/iiion, and Diagnostic Characters.— Fig. 45.* This tumour presents the appear- ance, the chemical composition, and the structure of masses of foetal car- tilage. It is enclosed in a tough fibrous capsule, which conducts a few blood-vessels. The surface of a cartilaginous tumour is more or less iiTegular and lobulated, the fibrous capsule pass- ing in between and separating the lobes; the whole mass varies also considerably in size (Figs. 45 and 46), from that of a pea to the bulk of a man's head, or growing even to enormous dimensions. Its sub- stance is pulpy or more consistent, it may be hard, but elastic, crisp when cut, and a section is bluish- white, like London milk, glistening and translucent. These appear- ances, however, vary with modifica- tions of structure. Two structural elements are found, the same as in ordinary car- tilage ; cells, and an inter-cellular substance, the latter being semi- transparent or molecular and dim, but more commonly fibrous. (Fig. 47.) The cells also may be scat- tered or aggregated, multiform, and they resemble either mature or rudimentary cartilage-cells. Their envelope is, therefore, more or less defined; it encloses one or more nuclei, within each of which is seen a nucleolus or two. Occasionally the nucleus appears radiated, not unlike the lacunaj and surrounding canaliculi of bone. There is, in fact, an intimate structural homology between the cartilaginous tumour and healthy cartilage, in its develop- * Euchondroma of the hand. The tumours are drawn too regularly round, and have not the nodulated character of the cartilaginous tumour, t Cartilaginous tumour of humerus. (Liston.)