443 TUMOURS OF MUSCLE. Traumatic inflammation may involve tlie muscular texture, in common witli other tissues. When myositis subsides, it leaves tlie muscle more or less stiffened and powerless, an affection which lasts perhaps for some time; and, in the event of suppuration, contraction is apt to result, as a more intractable state. The treatment of musctilar inflammation must be conducted on general principles, having reference to the apparent causes in operation. Abscess also requires no special notice. TuMOUES OP Muscle.—Equally rare, perhaps, as primary diseases, the muscles are yet sometimes the seat of Morbid Growths. The reader is referred to the situations of Morbid Grrowths, for some such particulars. But Mr. Teevan has collected 62 cases of tumours of muscles. About one-third were cancerous; 16 fihrous; 8 cystic; 5 Imjdatid; and 5 erectile. Mr. Erichson has seen 7 cases of tumours " primarily" formed in muscles. A fibro-cystic tumour, as large as a cocoa-nut, was "developed in connection with the tensor vagina3 muscle;" a cystic tumour, the size of a foetal head, was produced in the substance of the adductor brevis of the thigh; a fihro-jjlastic tumour, the size of a child's head, formed within the sheath and in the substance of the sartorius muscle of the left thigh; another cystic tumour, about as laro^e as a aroose's e^S, arose from the flexor brevis digitorum. Enoephaloid cancer formed in the cicatrix, and springing from the muscle just named, showed the nature of the original tumour. In two cases, the tumours were hydatid; one in the deltoid, the other at the outer edge of the latissimus dorsi. In the seventh case, the tumour was an enchondroma in the tibialis anticus muscle. In one other case, enchondroma was situated in the vastus-externus; and in yet another, it was connected with the pectoral muscle. The muscles of the lower limb are most frequently the seats of tumours ; in the upper limb, according to Mr. Teevan, the muscles, usually, are the pectoralis major, deltoid, and biceps. Those of the neck and trunk are seldom diseased, excepting the rectus abdominis muscle, a frequent seab of tumours. The treatment of muscular tumours differs in no way from that of the same growths situated in other parts of the body. Excision and amputation are the only known resources. Degeneration of Muscles.—See Greneral Pathology and Treatment of Degeneration.