579 FBACTUBE. Fig. 186. I Fig. 187. condition wlierein one fragment is wedged into another, the compact structure being driven into the cancellous textui'e. (Fig- 187.) An aperture made through a bone, as by a ball in gunshot wound, is sometimes named a perforated fracture. Generally, displacement of the fragments, in some degree, occurs with fracture; or subsequently, by mum muscular action or the weight ffliU limb. Displacement may iJiii be transverse, oblique, longitu- dinal, angular, or rotatory, as compared with the axis of a long bone; or a depression, in the flat bones of the skull. With fracture, the medullary web—endosteum—is torn, and completely across in most instances; the periosteum is rarely much damaged. Ac- cording to Paget's observations, the latter membrane is seldom stripped off the broken ends. Commonly, it is cleanly rent across at the same level as the fracture, and maintains its close union, having only its fibres somewhat frayed or pulled from their natural direction. Sometimes it remains entire, even with extensive fracture; and in this case, thickening, it contributes to the security of the repair of the injury. Any damage done to the surrounding soft textures, and the tempo- rary extravasation of blood, are concomitants of fracture, not pertaining to the lesion itself. Separation of the epiphysis is liable to occur, at the extremities of long bones, as the ends of the humerus, and the lower end of the femur, and tibia; or the various epiphysial processes, as the olecranon and the acromion, may be detached. Fracture of this kind takes place at the line of junction between the epiphysis and the shaft, or the body of the bone. Hence its direction is transverse. Such fracture is possible only before the completion of ossification, and perfect continuity of the bone ; during, therefore, infancy or youth, or probably not later than about twenty-one years of age. Signs.—Fracture is attended with motility of the broken portions of bone, and crepitation, su rough grating sensation, felt and heard, when the broken surfaces are gently moved in contact. Usually, the normal outline of the limb is altered, by the displacement of fracture and the speedy supervention of swelling, a disfigurement of contour which the experienced eye will frequently recognize at a glance; and there is more or less elevation or depression, also by the displacement and swelling at the irmiediate seat of fracture. Here also there may be more or less bruised discoloration of the integument, owing to ex- child, aged five years. The under surface of the bone is fractured, but the upper surface remaina and is bent outwards. An incomplete fracture of the shaft of the radius -will be found in the Museum of King's College, 1143-4; and an equally remarkable instance of such fracture in the ulna of a child, in St. Mary's Hosp. Mue.