295 EEYSIPELAS. believe, recommended by Mr. Syme. These measures are apparently more efficacious than tlie ipecacuanha emetic usually ordered to empty the stomach. The saline plan of treatment will, generally, prove sufficiently depletory—as well as excretory—without having recourse to blood- lettino-, to however small an amount. Debility, and the increasingly typhoid character of the fever, from the commencement of the disease, soon indicate the necessity for the substitution of a stimulant and tonic treatment. Carbonate of ammonia, in five or ten grain doses, with disulphate of quina, in similar or even larger doses, may be given every four hours. Tincture of the sesquichloride of iron, from ten to twenty minims every two hours, is highly extolled by Dr. Balfour, as a certain and unfaihng remedy, whether the erysipelas be infantile or adult, idiopathic or traumatic. The diet must correspond to this medicinal treatment. Wine should be given, tolerably freely, in all cases, and even from the very be- ginning. Brandy and egg beat up together, form a convenient and agreeable mixture, at once stimulating and nourishing. Beef-tea and the other preparations of nutritious and easily assimilated food, repre- sent the general character of our dietetic resources. Now, the degree to which this depletoiy, or stimulant and tonic, plan of treatment should be pushed, will vary with the symptoms, as they are more those of inflammatory or of typhoid fever. As the pulse becomes feeble and rapid, the tongue coated with a brown fur, and increasing debility supervenes, so must the one treatment be exchanged for the other. It is thus that the jjMegmonoits variety of erysipelas may, in the first instance, require more active depletory measures—purgative, dia- phoretic, and diuretic salines, with antimony, in doses to touch the pulse, and the occasional use of blue pill or calomel, in slightly chola- gogue doses; but these measures must soon be exchanged for a yet more free administration of quina with carbonate of ammonia, and a more supporting diet also, than in simple erysipelas. And again, erysipelas of traumatic origin may need yet further support, in proportion to the severity of the injury conjoined with the erysipelas. Complications, arising from internal inflammations, as meningitis or pleurisy, may be treated in the same way as when these diseases occur independently; due allowance being made for the low character of any such inflammation when associated with erysipelas. Local Treatment.—Any repressive application would be obnoxious ; not only as tending to divert the natural course of the disease, in the elimination of the blood-poison, but as possibly repelling the inflamma- tion to some other part, its migration or metastasis being perilous and prolonging the disease. In both these respects, the cutaneous inflam- mation of erysipelas is analogous to an attach of gout. Warm fomentations by spongio-piline or flannel steeped in a hot decoction of poppy-heads or camomile flowers, and continuously ap- plied, will hasten the termination of the inflammation by resolution. These epithems are also more soothing to the j^atient than dredging the part with flour or magnesia; a dirty, encrusting, and irritating application formerly in vogue, and still used by some surgeons. Nor can much be said in favour of a strong solution of nitrate of silver,