325 GLANDERS. being always tlie result of contagion. And this etiological considera- tion will always determine the diagnosis. Gonstihdional Disorder.—A variable period having elapsed, the con- stitutional symptoms supervene. Fever, attended with pain over the stomach, and vomiting, is soon succeeded by delirium and prostration, as the termination of septicsemia. In this advanced stage, death always ensues. The nature of the morbid matter itself is unknown, but it is de- veloped in beasts affected with " contagious carbuncle." The poison may be imparted by any accidental inoculation, in handling the animal when alive, or during the manufacture of hides, wool, etc. Malignant pustule is consequently most rife among butchers, tanners, shepherds, and wool-beaters. It may also be produced by eating the flesh of animals thus diseased. Instances in proof of this mode of production are cited by Wagner and Turchetti. Temperature and moisture have apparently some influence, for the disease is most prevalent in damp localities, and in wet autumnal weather. The morbid matter—what- ever it be—retains its poisonous power for a long time. Billroth alludes to the possibly spontaneous origin of malignant pustule in man some- times, as it certainly does arise in cattle and other animals; but this som'ce of production is disputed. Treatment.—Preventive measures are obviously suggested in accor- dance with the known etiology of this disease, although in the pursuit of certain avocations it may be difl&cult so to protect the hands and exposed parts of the body as to escape contagion. Even then, however, the progress of malignant pustule can generally be arrested at its commencement by excision or cauterization. Glanders is another disease derived by contagion from certain animals—the horse, ass, or mule—similarly affected. In the human species, it never arises as a primary disease. Inoculation of the human species is apt to occur by handling either animal when glandered; and the constitutional disorder thence arising may be briefly described as fever, resulting in the production of many inflammatory tumours in different parts of the body, which have a great tendency to suppurate and fall into gangrene. Towards the close of glanders, in eleven of fifteen cases (Rayer), puriform mucus, mixed with blood, oozed from the nostrils; in ten of these cases, the discharge came from one nostril only; and in all cases the qtiantity was inconsiderable, sometimes scarcely appreciable. The eyelids, also, are tumified, and secrete a thick viscid mucus. Muscular pains, and diarrhcEa with prostration, or delirium and coma, lead to a fatal termination. This disease runs its course in a period varying from a few days to many months, as an acute or chronic afEection. After death, septicaemia is declared by numerous abscesses, or collections of bloody serum or puriform matter, in the cellular texture and in the muscles. The period of latency in man varies from two to eight days. Treatment.—I am not aware of any means whereby the progress of glanders can be arrested when once inoculation has taken place, how- ever early our intended preventive measures may be applied. If in this respect unlike the bite of a rabid animal, a snake-bite, nr malig- nant pustule, glanders has at least one advantage—the diaease can always be avoided.