SYNOVITIS. 795 suppurate in the form of an abscess; while, in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, suppuration may extend up the thigh and down the leg. These periarticular abscesses, therefore, occur independently of, although consequent on, the purulent synovitis; but they may subsequently communicate with the joint, especially the bursal abscesses. Hence, according to the nature of the fluid in the bursro, puncture of the joint might yield pus in one situation, serum only in another part.* Puru- lent synovitis may be acute or chronic, according to the severity and duration of the symptoms; as depending chiefly on local or constitu- tional causes, e.g., injury or scrofula. Treatment.—Absolute rest of the joint should be observed, as pri- marily important; the limb being placed in that position which is most easy to the patient, and most convenient in the event of any stiffness remaining. A somewhat flexed position will, generally, best answer this twofold purpose. The limb may be sufficiently steadied by laying it on a soft pillow, which thus partially envelops the joint; or a suit- able splint should be applied to insure rest. Local depletion by leeches, followed by warm fomentations, or cold lotions or irrigation will be appropriate, according to the intensity of the inflammation. Gonsti- lutional treatment has reference to the inflammatory fever, and any constitutional cause of the inflammation. Hence, saline antimonials, Avith perhaps calomel and opium, may be sufficient to subdue the febi-ile disturbance and check effusion; or the special treatment for rheumatism, constitutional syphilis, or other such causative condition, may be requisite. Gonorrhoeal synovitis is amenable to the same treatment as that arising from rheumatism. Thus, colchicum and iodide of potassium sometimes prove remedial. But the disease, in most cases, I'uns its course; or a change of climate from a cold and damp atmosphere to the southern coast, may be followed by a speedy subsidence of the symptoms. By this plan of treatment, synovitis, in an early stage, will probably terminate by resolution or shght effusion. Chronic synovitis must be treated with a view to the removal of the accumulated effusion, and consequent weakness of the joint. Counter- u-ritation in the form of blisters should be employed to overcome any persistent inflammation; followed by stimulating embrocations, and pressure to promote absorption. Two or three blisters in succession ! are certainly preferable to a single blister kept open with savine oint- : ment. The discharge produced by savine ointment soon ceases, and • the surface of the skin acquires a mammillated appearance from en- largement of its papillee. The blisters should not be applied directly < over the inflamed joint, but in the neighbourhood. Thus, in the case I of the knee, a blister applied on either side of the thigh just above the ; joint; and with regard to the hip, a blister may be placed on the groin < or nates. Of stimulating embrocations, a liniment of turpentine and ' olive oil, or the iodine paint, are perhaps most efficacious. Pressure <can be applied by means of a gutta-percha or pasteboard splint, I moulded to the joint; or the joint may be strapped with soap-plaster : spread upon leather. The emplastrum amimoniaci cum hyclrargyro con- 'veniently combines both stimulation and pressure. Injection of the * See also " Formation of Synovial Cysts in connection with Disease of the 1 Knee-Joint," by li. W. Moirant-Uaker. (St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Eeports, vol. xiii.)