DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 771 more precise directions are tliese:—" Mex tlic limb towards a per- pendicular, and abduct it a little to disengage tbe bead of tbe bone; then rotate tbe tbigb strongly inwards, adducting and carrying tbe knee to tbe floor." (Fig. 383.) Dislocation Upwards and Forwards upon the Pubes.—btruc- tural Gondition.—The bead of tbe femur rests on tbe anterior margin of the horizontal ramus of tbe pubic bone, with the great trochanter directed backwards. (Fig. 384.) Sometimes, tbe ball is driven up so Fig. 384.t high as to be booked into tbe pelvis. Tbe capsular and round liga- ments are ruptured. In a case dissected by Sir A. Cooper, Poupart's ligament was torn, so as to allow tbe bead and neck of tbe bone to pass underneath tbe iliacus internus and psoas muscles; the anterior crural nerve lying upon these muscles and stretched over tbe neck. The femoral vessels were to the inner side. Sigyis.—Tbe limb is shortened, generally to tbe extent of an inch; flexed slightly, decidedly abducted, and everted. (Fig. 385.) The globular head of the femur can be plainly felt on tbe pubic bone, to the outside of the femoral vessels, and made to roll under the fingers by rotating tbe limb; while tbe prominence of the great trochanter has disappeared, this portion of the bone Being drawn inwards and upwards towards the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. Im- mobility of the limb is a marked symptom, as regards rotation inwards ; * After Bigelow. t Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 881. Dislocation of the head of the femur on the outer part of the horizontal ramus of tlio puhes, iu contact with the anterior inferior spine of the ilium; the posterior surface of the neck and great trochanter rested on the lower part of the ilium and the upper border of the acetabulum, extending backwards to the ischium. This dislocation had remained unreduced for many years before death. A new joint has formed, consisting of an adaptation of the surfaces of the ilium and os pubis to the upper part of the femur, and an eleva- tion of now bone receives the neck of the femur. A strong capsule of ligamentous tissue is attached above to the ilium and os pubis, and encloses the head, neck, and trochanter of the femur. In this articulation, the head of tlie femur has lost its cartilage; but tlie surface became hardened, and has assumed a conical form. The acetabulum is obliterated by a douse ligameutous matter, occupying its cavity. (W. Lynn.)