SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 656 The measurement should always be taken with a graduated, inelastic tape. In seventy-four cases of fractare, at all ages, from three to sixty-three years, and in both sexes. Dr. Buck, of New York, found that nineteen had united without any shortening; a proportion of about one-fourth. The average shortening in the remaining fifty-five cases was a little less than three-quarters of an inch. Another method of treatment consists in using the long external splint simply to steady the limb; or coaptation is secured by the ap- plication of four short splints to the thigh, according to Dr. Gordon Buck's method ; counter-extension is maintained by the weight of the trunk, the foot of the bed being elevated on blocks to the height of a few inches, sufficiently for this purpose, and continued extension is brought to bear by means of a weight suspended over a pulley from the leg, to which it is attached by a loop of adhesive plaster. (Fig. 262.) This double arrangement obviates the risk of excoriation from the use of the perineal band ; and also the tendency to ulceration of the instep, Fig. 262. when the extending force is limited to the foot, instead of being diffused over the leg. For this latter reason, more especially, I now generally treat Fractures of the Femur by weight-extension. This is applied by passing a long, broad strip of stout adhesive plaster down one side of the leg and np the other side, leaving a loop opposite the sole of the foot. (Fig. 263.) Within this loop, a thin plate of wood is placed, adherent to the plaster, taking care that this foot-piece be sufficiently wide—say, four inches across—to keep off any pressure from the bands over the sides of the ankle, during the continued extension. These extension-bands are further secured by the turns of a roller-bandage from the Fig. 263. foot up the leg. Then a weight, from about ten to twenty pounds for an adult, is attached to the foot-piece of the loop by a small cord, and thus suspended over a pulley in a wooden upright frame or standard at the end of the bed. The full weight necessary for complete extension may not be tolerated well at first, and it must then be moderated for a few houre. Sometimes the aching pain of continued extension will be relieved by slightly flexing the knee, with a small pillow underneath the joint.