127 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. Compound or Proliferous. Cystigerous. Glandular. Cutaneous. Dentigerous. Cystic Tumours—e.g.. Fibrous. Cartilaginous. Fatty Tumour. Lipoma. Steatoma. Sarcoma (Vircbow) :— Fibro-cellular Tumour. Painful Sub-cutaneous Tubercle. Neuroma. Glioma. Myxoma. Psammoma. (Vircbow.) Fibrous Tumour. Fibro-calcareous. Fibro-cystic. , . ,. f Fibro-nucleated. Eecurrmg Varieties. | Recurring Fibroid. Cartilaginous Tumour. (Enchondroma.) Fibro-Cartilaginous. Ossific. Mixed with otlier Growths. ^ . -TT • J.- ( Myeloid. (Paget, or Eecurrmg Varieties, j ^ibro-plastic. Lebert.) Granulation Tumours. (Vircbow.) Elephantiasis. Sypbilitic Tumours—e.g., Gummy Tumours; Lupus ; and Swellings of Glanders and Farcy. Vascular or Erectile Tumours. (Angioma.) , Nsevus.—Telangeiectasis. Aneurism by Anastomosis. Osseous Tumours. Glandular Tumours. Lymphoma. Adenoma. Papillary Growths. Warts. Horns. Infiltrating Growths. Cancer. Encephaloid. Varieties.—^Villous. Melanotic. Fungus Haematodes. Scirrhous. Varieties.—Osteoid. Colloid. Varieties. Cystic Cancers. Epithelial Cancer. Varieties. General Etiology.—(1.) Pathogeny of Morhid Groivtlis.—As distin- guished from the Pathology or Structure and Vital History of Morbid Growths, tbeir Pathogeny or Generation is an inquiry of great interest and practical importance. The origin of Morbid Growths appears to be similar to that of Inflammatory Products, in their being either textural geneses, or re- ferable to morbid conditions of the blood—dyscrasise. Virchow, Rind- fleisch, and 0. Weber concur in regarding Tumours as of local origin ; Billroth and other pathologists equally incline to their constitutional production. According to Virchow's theory, new formations, whether as in- flammatory products, or as new growths or tumours, are produced from the germs with which connective tissue and derivative tissues are said to abound; this common stock of germs being the source of new formations, instead of the plastic lymph, blastema, or exudation matter, which has so long been accredited. This theory of " con- tinuous textural development," in opposition to the "blastema" theory, IS based upon two species of evidence: the absence of any discernible