639 FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. CoUes' fracture, wlien. situated just above the articular surface, this fracture is generally transverse ; sometimes comminuted, or impacted. Displacement of both fragments occurrs. (Fig. 238.) The lower or articular fragment is displaced backwards and upwards, and slightly Fig. 238.* outwards, with some degree of similar rotation on its horizontal axis ; this fragment being drawn in these directions by the action of the two radial extensors of the wrist, the three extensors of the thumb, and by the supinator longus muscle; or similar displacement with impaction may arise from the direction of the force of fracture, when caused by a fall on the palm of the hand. The upper fragment is pronated by the pronator quadratus and teres muscles. According to Nelaton's obser- vations, the styloid process of the ulna is often broken, and the tri- angular ligament torn, in connection with this fracture of the radius. The Signs of Colles' fracture resemble those of fracture in general, but have certain characteristics in this situation. A prominence to be seen and felt at the back of the wrist, just above the joint, corresponds to the lower or articular fragment; immediately above which, a depres- 239. sion corresponds to the somewhat depressed upper end of the fracture. (Fig. 239.) The palmar aspect of the forearm, just above the wrist, presents the opposite appearances : a marked hollow underneath the articular f ragm ent; and immediately above, the prominence of the upper fragment-end, pronated b^ the pronator muscles, and bulging the tendons of the flexor muscles. These appearances are, of course, more marked on, or perhaps restricted to, the radial side of the forearm; and they are most conspicuous when the forearm is viewed laterally. The hand is prone, and drawn downwards and, pronely, inwards ; presenting a concavity on the radial side of the wrist, and a convexity on the ulnar side, the styloid process of the ulna projecting under the integument. Mobility of the radius above the fracture, the lower fragment not moving with it, and crepitus, both of which are elicited on rotating the bone ; pain, and dropping powerlessness of the * Univ. Coll. Mus., 211. t St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 103. Comminuted fracture of the lower articular surface and extremity of the radius. The fragments are very much dis- placed, particularly at the posterior margin of the bone; but bony union has oc- curred by new osseous deposit between the contiguous edges of the fragments. The injury was produced by a fall on the hand, from a height of about 20 ft.; and death took place eleven weeks after the accident. The carpal end of the other radius was fractured in like manner; this double fracture showing that tlio weight of the body must have been received equally by both hands. ^ Fig 240.t