OOt) SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. knee-joint; and malleolar, internal and external, wliicli pass horizoa- tally over the ends of the tibia and fibula. The dorsal artery of the foot, continuing the anterior tibial from the front of the ankle-joint to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, sinks into the sole of the foot to communicate with and coin- pleto the plantar arch. In its course, the artery res^s on the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones ; it lies between the tendon of the extensor pollicis internally, and the inner tendon of the extensor brevia digitorum externally, as far as about half an inch before the artery sinks into the sole, where this tendon crosses obliquely over to the inner side; the vessel is covered, otherwise, only by the skin, super- ficial and aponeurotic fascia, here a very thin membrane. Two vence comites accompany the vessel, also the anterior tibial nerve, which still lies external; becoming cutaneous in the first interosseous space, to supply the opposed sides of the great toe and the next. The branches are—a tarsal branch, which arises opposite the scaphoid bone, and passes under the extensor brevis to the outside of the foot; and a metatarsal branch, which forms an arch across the foot, under the extensor, near the bases of the metatarsal bones. Operation.—The intermuscular septum is the best guide to the anterior tibial, between the fleshy bellies of the tibialis anticus and extensor communis, and continued down between the former muscle and the extensor pollicis. Or, a line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to the centre of the ankle, Fig. 169. vrill indicate the vessel, throughout its course. Tn the upper third of the leg, an incision from two to three inches in length, between the extensor communis and tibialis (Fig. 169), leads down to the artery, deeply placed under cover of the latter muscle. The anterior tibial nerve, distant to the outer side, is here out of the way. On drawing the tibialis muscle inward, the artery is seen with its venfB comites, and the ligature may be passed from either side of the vessel. In the lower two-thirds of the leg, an incision, less in length and depth, will find the artery between the less fleshy portions, or between the tendons, of the extensor pollicis and tibialis anticus (see Fig. 169) ; but in the lower third, the artery inclines in front of the tibia, with the tendon of the former muscle approaching to cross over it. The anterior tibial nerve, from about the middle of the leg, may be seen accompanying the artery and its venae comites. Drawing the tendons aside, with the nerve, the vessel is easily ligatured from either side. The dorsal arterij of the foot can be readily reached by an incision along the outer side of the tendon of the extensor pollicis (see Fig. 169), dividing only the skin, supei-ficial fascia, and aponeurosis. The artery is seen between this tendon and the inner tendon of the