GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 226 But in certain of these naturally limited gangrenes, the limitation cannot he foretold, simply because the exact situation of the causative condition cannot be diagnosed. Of arterial conditions; such are ossifi- cation of a main artery or arteries, leading to senile gangrene ; arteritis, indefinite in a lesser degree, as to its extent; embolism; and partial rupture of an artery without any external wound. Of venous condi- ditions; such also are fibrous obliteration of a large vein; phleboliths or vein-stones impacted; and phlebitis, indefinite as to its extent. Hence, in all these cases, arterial and venous—the treatment appro- priate for the particular causative condition having failed—amputation must be deferred until such time as nature has indicated, by the forma- tion of the line of demarcation, that limitation which cannot be fore- seen. The venous conditions referred to seldom, if ever, necessitate amputation. On the other hand, the line of demarcation can be foretold, in other cases of definitely local origin. Such are aneurisms, spontaneous and traumatic, and wounds of a main artery; aneurismal varix, and varicose aneurism; and any occasion of prolonged pressure on a large vein. Hence in all these cases—arterial or venous—the treatment appro- priate for the particular causative condition having failed, amputation may be resorted to before the formation of the line of demarcation has indicated the actual extent to which the gangrene will spread. Generally speaking, the rule for amputation may be thus stated, in all cases of local origin; idiopathic gangrene, however caused, suggests the postponement of amputation until the limitation of gangrene is declared by Nature; whereas traumatic gangrene, however caused, suggests amputation more immediately, this anticipation of Nature by Surgical Art then being justifiable. Two exceptions are urged by Erichsen—namely, gangrene from frostbite, and that from severe burns. In these injuries, he considers it better to wait for the forma- tion of the line of separation, and then to fashion the stump through or just above it, as the circumstances of the case require. In Spreading traumatic gangrene, the question of amputation is to be determined rather by the consideration that a constitutional cause is in operation. Operative interference, thei'efore, should be deferred, pending the formation of the natural line of demarcation,—as was directed by Sharp and Pott. The contrary rule is, however, maintained by Larrey, and some other modern surgeons of large experience; that in this condition, if life be in danger, amputation should be performed, although gangrene may yet be spreading. (3.) Solicitation of the natural separation of the dead part, with reparative closure of the blood-vessels ; and the healing process of granulation and cicatrization. Constitutional gangrene, or gangrene arising from local conditions the exact situation of which cannot be diagnosed, may, in either case, have compelled the delay of amputation until the line of demarca- tion takes place; but Surgical Art should solicit this limitation, and thus also, if possible, restrict the extent to which the gangrene might otherwise have spread. By maintaining the temperature of the part not yet mortified, the lo(iial circulation may become diffused sufficiently to sustain its vitality; whereby the line of demarcation between the living and the dead portions will be declared. Hence, the preventive value of cotton wadding, with which material the limb