152 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. of treatment. What I have done or seen has led me to avoid such applications, as useless or pei'ilous. (3.) Removal, by ligature or incision. The former method is ap- propriate for vascular tumours larger, and, therefore, more arterial or venous, than those which can be safely obliterated by caustics or injec- tions, or in cases where such treatment has failed. The advantages are—less liability to hjemorrhage, and a more healthy sore when the tumour is detached. The difficulties are—to include all the vessels connected with the tumour around its base, and-to completely strangle without cutting them by the ligature,—thus insuring extirpation of the growth. But success is at least equally uncertain with regard to the treatment both by obliteration and absorption. Cessation of pulsation, or only a thrilling tremor in the tumour, and inability to reduce it by pressure, are signs that the operation of ligature has been effectually performed. Excision is also applicable to vascular tumours of large size, especially those of a venous character, and those which are encysted. But the situations should be such as to allow of the parts being readily brought together after operation. Free excision is necessary, to pre- vent the risk of haemorrhage, primary or secondary, and compression around will be an additional precaution. N^vus.—This species of vascular growth in the skin consists of capillary vessels, enlarged, tortuous, and convoluted in the form of lobuli; involving the papilla, the sudoriferous glands, the sebaceous follicles, the hair follicles, and extending down into the subcutaneous cellular texture, thus being seated both in and under the skin. But the vessels in either situation may be almost solely affected, forming the cutaneous and subcutaneous varieties of nasvus. And the vascular growth may incline to the venous or to the arterial character. The external appearances of n^evus are commonly these: it is a vascular cutaneous spot, of a dark red or steel-blue colour, flattened, but somewhat raised above the skin; soft and compressible, painless, perhaps slightly pulsating under the finger, but disappearing on pressure, and returning when again set free; the vascular distension being incx'eased by coughing, struggling, or any other effort which affects the circulation. Such a spot is usually congenital,—as a " mother's mark," it is situated generally on the scalp, face, or back of the neck, and varies in size from a pin's head to that of a half-crown, or larger. It is often single, but there may be two, three, or more vascular spots. Stationary nsevi of this description are known as " moles." A less common form of nasvus is that which presents a vascular patch of skin, having a deep red or claret colour, and extending over a large portion of the surface, as the side of the face, and perhaps down the arm and trunk. Treatment.—When of small size, cutaneous, and not progressively increasing, a ntevus may well be left to itself; and it may atrophy, wither, and disappear. When of large extent, although superficial, as on the face, presenting the appearance of a large purple patch; such nsevus must be left alone, it is irremovable, albeit a great dis- figurement. But, when ncevus is of large size, or subcutaneous, and increasing in size, occasioning also much disfigurement; operative interference becomes necessary, and indeed urgent in proportion to the development of these characters.