SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 390 bat absorption supervenes, and the originally purple or livid discolora- tion oi a bruise gradually fades away into a brown, and thence into a greenish or yellowish hue, the latter often continuing for weeks or months. Blood extravasated in considerable quantity may also remain stationary for a while, as a bag of fluid. Over prominent parts, as the crest of the ilium and the great trochanter, I have seen large tumours of this kind produced by heavy falls. Generally, however, any such collection of blood undergoes changes of consistence; becoming thin and serous, and enclosed in a fibrous cyst; or thick and dark like treacle, constituting a sanguineous tumour—hsematoma ; or with coagulation, organization of the clot may result, by the development of new blood-vessels. In either of these reparative alterations, the blood corpuscles disintegrate to some extent; and hence, apparently, the changes of colour, followed by absorption; and it can scarcely be doubted that the damaged structural condition of the tex- tures is more or less reinstated. But the intimate nature of all these reparative alterations, after contusion, requires further investi- gation. Lastly, the most obvious change may be destruction, prevail- ing over any reparative effort; the blood, acting as a foreign body, induces inflammation, the products of which, commingling, form a bloody purulent fluid, extravasated amid the disintegrated textures. Gangrene is imminent, an event the more apt to ensue according to the severity and extent of contusion ; and gangi^nous disintegration of the textures may appear in the form of sloughing, or as traumatic gangrene, thus converting the subcutaneous lesion into an open, lacerated wound. Sometimes, the extravasated blood rapidly passes into decomposition, accompanied with the symptoms of pya3mic infec- tion. HaBmorrhage, superadded to the blood originally extravasated, is another adverse issue, but even less common, unless in internal organs. Reparation by the process of suppurative granulation wiU be de- scribed in tracing the course of a contused or lacerated wound. Treatment.—The earliest occasion for interference is determined, not by the presence of contusion, which is naturally disposed to undergo reparation; but it depends on the degree of contusion and the quantity of blood extravasated. A slight ecchymosis disappears spontaneously; a more severe bruise may need help. The indications are, in the first instance, to stop any further ex- travasation, and then to promote absorption, without any breach of the integument. Compression, by the application of a bandage, may per- haps, therefore, have a doubly good effect. Various topical applications have reputed efficacy. Arnica, I think, possesses some virtue. The tincture diluted, in the proportion of an ounce to half a pint of water, is perhaps more efficacious than spirit lotion, or any other cold evapo- rating fluid. Leeches are not merely useless to withdraw the blood, congealed and infiltrated; but by admitting air, and thus inducing decomposition, they are positively noxious. Moreover, they are apt to excite sloughing of the skin. When the blood is in a fluid state, it may be drawn off by )?ieans of the aspirator; but the cavity is apt to refill again and again; as in a case of extensive contusion of tli. back, fi'om which I thus removed ten to fifteen ounces of sanguineous fluid several times. Should suppuration or gangi-ene threaten,—whether from the blood acting as a foreign body, from the severity and extent of the contusion, or from both these conditions co-operating,—then.