50 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and paralysis. Inflammation of the spinal cord presents similar symptoms ; excepting, of course, any modifications of purely cerebral functions. With nephritis, the secretion of urine is first increased, then diminished; and so with regard to other secreting organs. In pneumonia, dyspncBa represents increased respiratory effort, but this is attended with imperfect aeration of the blood and the retention of hydro-carbonaceous matter. Accumulation of excrementitious matters in the blood is the most serious consequence of inflammation affecting any specially excreting organ ; as the kidneys or skin. From Inflammation, as a local morbid process, which I have desig- nated Accelerated Nutrition of the part affected, we pass to its ac- companying constitutional disorder, a febrile condition of the whole body. Gonstitutional Symptoms—Inflammatory Fever.—The phenomena of this fever are briefly these:—The heart's action is excited, the pulse becoming more forcible and frequent than usual, and in some cases less compressible, while the temperature rises, perhaps to 10° F. above the normal heat of the blood,—-as determined by the clinical ther- mometer placed within the axilla or the mouth of the patient, for two or three minutes; the skin is dry and hot, alternating with chilliness or even shivering, the urine scanty and high-coloured, the tongue dry and furred, the bowels probably constipated, and the faeces dry and hard ; thirst and inappetency, weakness with general nervous excitement,—restlessness, sleeplessness, or delirium, and hurried respi- ration, are also primary phenomena. Thus, the vascular, secretory, and nervous systems, are together engaged in a constitutional disorder —symptomatic of the local inflammation, and hence sometimes named Symptomatic Fever. When the nervous phenomena predominate, as delirious excitement, soon succeeded by exhaustion in broken-down constitutions, it has been named Irritative or Nervous Fever. In a typical case of inflammatory fever,—as arising from compound fracture, without much haemorrhage,—the patient, if otherwise sound and strong, exhibits the following symptoms, of which the clinical description given by Mr. Simon is true to life :—Before twenty-four hours have elapsed from the time of injury, the patient's general system begins to be thus affected. He feels hot, or alternatively very hot and chilly. His skin and lips and mouth are dry. He passes urine in less quantity, but of higher colour, than usual. His pulse is quickened. A sense of general disorder gains upon him. He becomes restless and intolerant of disturbance. Signs of drought increase with him. His urine becomes scantier and more coloured. His skin feels hotter to the surgeon's hand, and his pulse, whether full or hard, is quicker and stronger than before. He craves more and more for water. His face has a flushed, anxious look. He is thoroughly uncomfortable; feeling distressingly hot, but at intervals feeling touches of chilliness—sometimes even of such cold that he shivers with it. His sleep is troubled and unrefreshing ; or, as night comes, he gets delirious. His tongue, besides being dry, is furred. If his bowels act (which commonly they are inapt to do without laxatives) the excretions are morbidly offensive. Grradually these symptoms give way : in proportion as the injured limb ceases to be tense, and passes into suppuration, the skin and mouth become moist again ; the ex- cretions lose their concentrated character; the hard pulse softens, and