800 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. folds wLich siirroTind the cartilages, they are often concealed by the new formation. (Pig. 412.) Billroth's special observations show that the circumferential synovial folds proliferate, in the sliape of red Fig. 412.* ^po^^gy granulations, overspreading the car- tilage, and to which this fleshy layer becomes firmly adherent, by roots or processes enter- ing the substance of the cartilage. A similar pulpy material forms in the areolar texture around the outer surface of the membrane, which thus becomes infiltrated and con- densed. This gelatinous material apparently results from a failure in the process of de- velopment of the products of inflammation ; in acute and healthy synovitis, a fibrous or areolar tissue being produced; whereas in scrofulous inflammation, development does not advance beyond the first form of crude cell-structure. Many intermediate gradations, however, may be found between these two conditions. The knee-joint is most commonly afEected ; less often, the hip. Signs, and Diagnosis.—In an early stage, a sense of stiffness of the joint is experienced and tumefaction appears, on either side of the patella; beginning almost imperceptibly, but slowly and gradually increasing; with absence of pain, even on moving the joint. The child walks with a limping or dragging lameness. These early symptoms are not very characteristic. In a more advanced stage, after the lapse of a few months, a very considerable enlargement is presented, generally of an irregular shape, colourless and elastic, without any distinct fluctuation. The joint has now become tender on pressure, painful when moved, and the limb more or less bent. This disease most resembles scrofulous caries of the ai-ticjilar ends of the bone in the joint afi^ected. But the swelling is diagnostic, in its being more obviously referable to the synovial membrane than to the end of either bone. From cancerous disease of either articular end of bone, the same feature of distinction may be available for diagnosis; while the whiteness of the skin contrasts with the reddish or purplish dis- coloui'ation which sooner or later supervenes in malignant disease, as the skin becomes involved. The lymphatic glands also are not con- taminated. Course and Terminations.—As the disease progresses, the cartilages undergo ulceration in spots, where the spongy processes are imbedded; though these spots are not, necessarily, at first, in direct relation with the pulpy synovial membrane. The changes which ensue are fully described in tracing the Ulceration of Articular Cartilages. Abscess forms within the joint, or in the substance of the swollen membrane; and making its way to the surface, opens by vai'ious sinuous apertures. Hectic supervenes. Occasionally, the disease subsides. The gelatinous growth is directed inwards towards the articular cavity, which it tends to fill up; while the material itself becoming more fibrous, and contracting, * Royal Free Hospital. Scrofulous synovitis of knee-joint. Amputation. (Author.)