PAET I. GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. DISEASES OF NUTEITION. CHAPTER I. INFLAMMATION. Inflammation may be defined to be a local modification of Nutrition ; consisting, essentially, in an increased textural productiveness and destruction of texture, and acceleration, therefore, of the nutritive process; resulting in an accumulation of mixed, organized matter,— partly, of products having an imperfect structural homology or re- semblance to healthy conditions of texture or textural elements, and partly, of debris or waste of the textures involved. In connection with this process of accelerated and imperfect nutrition, the local circulation of blood, and the containing vessels, undergo certain changes; an increased flow or determmation of arterial blood to, and in, the capillary vessels, at the seat of inflammation, stagnation and accumulation or congestion of blood in the capillaries of the inflamed parfc, the veins transmitting the increased current of blood through collateral capillaries, with enlargement of all the vessels concerned; vascular changes which are accompanied with an effusion or exudation of organizable plasma or liquor sanguinis. The condition of the local circulation in the capillaries is known as the stasis of the circulation in an inflamed part. This complex process has the most comprehensive significance, both pathological and practical; having relation to all Injuries, Diseases, and Surgical Operations. Hence, a due knowledge of Inflammation and its consequences, is of primary importance in the study of Surgery. The pathology of Inflammation is most appropriately introduced by a brief consideration of the physiology of healthy Nutrition,—in the maintenance of the structural integrity of the body, and the modifica- tions of this process in growth and development. Nutrition is that process, wherein the blood or its constituents as nutritive material—liquor sanguinis, plasma or blastema—is converted into the various textures and organs of the body; thereby restoring or repairing the loss or waste of their structure, which continually accom- panies the exercise of their respective functions. The changes which