697 * St. Bartholome-w's Hosp. Mus., A. 148. RACHITIS OR EICIiETS. •disoi'ganized by prolonged and profuse suppui'ation, or tbe general health undermined by hectic, amputation is unavoidable. Thus, in a case of necrosis of the femur consequent on typhoid fever in India, the whole shaft of the bone was involved, the limb enormously thickened, and the muscles were matted together. I amputated the limb close to the trochanter, and the patient made an excellent recovery, regaining his general health. And in the more rare cases, also, where a main artery is opened by ulceration, or wounded by the sequestrum, amputation will generally be preferable to ligature of the vessel, in situ, or by the main trunk. Eachitis oe Rickets.—Strudioral Condition.—This disease affects more or less the whole osseous system. The earthy matter of the bones is diminished, and the organic basis, therefore, proportionately increased ; the cancelli are enlarged and filled with a brownish-red fluid. Both the periosteal and the medullary membranes appear to be more vascular than in health, and the former membrane becomes thickened. All these changes are more marked at the epiphyseal ends of the long bones. The flat and the short bones, particularly the carpal and tarsal bones, are thickened. Some re- laxation of the ligaments accompanies the change of osseous texture. Bones in this state have acquired great softness and flexibility, thence undergoing remarkable changes of shape, in consequence of the weight of the body, or other forces to which they are subject. The bones of the limbs, in particular, become curved inwards or outwards and distorted, the pelvis collapsed and sis* twisted, the thorax contracted above and enlarged lower down by the drag- ging weight of the abdominal viscera, and the spine is often distorted by lateral or other curvatm'e. The cranium appears enlarged, owing perhaps to the imperfect development of the facial bones; presenting a large head and diminutive face. There is also a general arrest of growth and development. The Signs of rickets are some of these peculiar deformities of the osseous system. They are found often also in connection with manifestations of scro- fula. Perhaps the earliest observable deformity is a swelling of the wrist, due to enlargement of the carpal epiphyseal ends of the radius and ulna. The knee and ankles often present enlargements in like manner. Deformities of the bones soon follow, and in the order, generally, as Guerin observes, from below upwards. Under the weight of the trunk, the tibia and fibula of both legs are curved outwards and forwards, the arches of the feet yielding and turning inwards; with this excur- vation of the legs, the knees also are bowed outwards, accompanied