155 TUi\IOUES OB MORBID GROWTHS. ten recorded cases having failed, without one single instance of ultimate ciire. In two cases, however, where the scalp was the seat of aneurism by anastomosis, Gibson aided the effect of circumferential ligatures by incisions around the tumour in the intervening spaces; and this procedure proved successful. Ligature of the main trunk has been practised on the carotid, when the tumour was seated on the scalp, or in the orbit; or the brachial, and femoral arteries, have been ligatured, when the disease occurred on the arm or leg. The carotid has been tied in twenty-three recorded cases; in five of which, both arteries were tied at intervals of several weeks. Single ligature proved successful in some of the cases ; double ligature in all five. Ligature of the carotid for aneurism by anasto- mosis in the orbit, has been performed in thirteen cases; with a successful result in the majority. These two procedures—ligature of the circumferential arteries, and of the main trunk—may be combined or practised in succession, and the former aided by the intervening incisions. Other methods of treatment have been resorted to, but with less safety, or less success. Excision—another mode of removing the tumour—has been prac- tised, with previous ligature of the circumferential arteries. But the risk of hasmorrhage, primary or secondary, is considerable. Hence this operative procedure is suitable only in exceptional cases, where the tumour is of small size. Obliteration, by adhesive inflammation, or perchance sloughing, is another principle of cure, which may be applicable in the case of a small-sized tumour. Thus the injection of perchloride of iron has been tried. But experience is wanting to determine the relative safety and success of this treatment. Direct compression may be mentioned, as it would-seem an eligible mode of obliteration, when the tumour is so situated as to offer coun- ter resistance to the pressure of a pad and bandages ; e.g., on the tem- poral or parietal bone. Yet compression has seldom proved successful. Osseous and Glandular Tumours, respectively, are more properly considered in connection with Diseases of the Bones, and Glandular Organs. Infiltrating Growths comprise, perhaps, only one genus—Cancer: its typical species being Bncephaloid, Scirrhus, and, perhaps, Colloid, with many sub-varieties; distinguished chiefly by shades of difference in their general characters of colour, consistence, shape, size, and mobility. Structural Conditions, and Diagnostic Characters.—The three species of cancer present under the microscope the same cell. (Pig. 53.) This, at first I'ig- 53* colourless and pellucid, consists of a deli- cate envelope, containing a large clear nucleus or two, sometimes more, never less, within each of which is imbedded one or two nucleoli, also large and clear. Such is the " cancer cell." (Bennett.) But is this cell peculiar to, and character- * Cancer-cells a, from scirrhus of the mamma. Transparent cells h, seen after the action of acetic acid. 250 diam. (Bennett.)