Fig. 129.* ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 489 are completely filled with firm laminated coagnlnm. An instance of spontaneous cure, under circumstances thus apparently hopeless, should be considered in relation to the prob- ability of cure by surgical interference. Treatment.— Constitutional treat- ment—hygenic and medicinal as for Aneurism in general—is said to have proved successful in several instances. But such resources having failed, the naturally fatal character of these aneu- risms renders the alternative consider- ation of operative proceedings unavoid- able. Hence, the primary importance of a corrected diagnosis of the peculiar vessel affected; either of the three vessels at the root of the neck being, possibly, the seat of aneurism. Trache- otomy may also be had recourse to, under similar circumstances, and with the same precaution in performing the operation, as with regard to aortic aneurisms. To avoid injuring the sac, the trachea might be entered, as Mr. Spence suggests, above the isthmus of the thyroid, which should be drawn down so as to expose the upper rings of the trachea. (1.) Innominate Aneurism.—Ligature, on the distal side, may be resorted to; (a) of the subclavian artery alone ; (b) of the carotid artery alone; (c) of both arteries. Neither of these medications of Brasdor's operation for Aneurism has been followed by any notably successful results. Distal ligature of the subclavian alone has been practised in four cases, by Dupuytren, Wardrop, Laugier, and Broca. All were fatal, more immediately or remotely after operation. In the first case, death took place on the ninth day, from secondary hemorrhage; in the second, two years after operation, from exhaustion; in the third, at the end of a month, from asphyxia; in the fourth, at the end of six months, from gangrene of the lung. The sac, in the first case, became smaller, the tumour diminishing, but its pulsations continued; in the second, the size and pulsation of the tumour diminished, but pulsation returned in the right carotid on the ninth day, thus apparently saving the life of the patient for two years; in the thii"d, the aorta was dilated, but the right carotid obliterated by pressure of the tumour; in the fourth, the tumour became firmer, but not much diminished m size, and afterwards increased. In any case, ligature beyond the scaleni allows that portion of the current of blood through the aneurism to continue, which supplied the branches of the sub- clavian; namely, the superior intercostal, and internal mammary, the vertebral, and the thyroid axis. This direct transmission of blood in considerable quantity, not to mention that which passes off indirectly by the carotid artery, renders the probability of consolidation taking place in the sac all but hopeless. * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mu3., 1G81a. (Dr. Dowse.)