FEACTUEE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUE. 657 Of course, the length of the limb must be ascertained, when the fracture has thus been set, and occasionally afterwards; the extending weight being regulated accordingly, A lono- anterior splint, with suspension of the limb, may be resorted to, in cases of injury to the soft parts on the back of the limb, associated with fractared femur. This splint was devised by Dr. N. R. Smith, of Maryland, and a modification by Dr. James Palmer, of the United States Navy. In the latter contrivance, the suspension is directed obliqicely towards the foot, so as thus to more effectually maintain exten- sion while counter-extension is preserved by the weight of the trunk. Fracture of the great trochanter alone (see Pig. 246) would not require extension of the limb, which of course is not shortened. In such case, a broad hip-bandage may be applied, and will suffice to keep the fragment in position. This method of treatment was recommended by Sir A. Cooper. (Pig- 264.) But, in most cases, there is the addi- tional injury of fracture through the neck of the femur, or in the adjoining portion of the shaft below the trochanter. Practically, there- fore, the trochanteric fracture is usually associated with the treatment of these fractures. The additional support of a hip-bandage may, however, be advantageous, whenever the trochanter can be felt distinctly movable; an uncommon condition, for this rare form of fracture is obscured by the large swelling which arises from the direct violence of the injury. Fig. 264. (2.) Practure of the shaft of the femur near the small trochanter (see Pig. 246) may sometimes be adjusted more evenly by relaxation of the muscles, and the application of a splint to maintain the requisite position for that purpose ; a method of treatment proposed and prac- tised by Pott. The thigh is flexed on the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, and the limb laid somewhat on its outer side ; an angular splint, moulded to the hip and thigh, must then be applied, and, per- haps, a short counter-splint on the inner aspect of the thigh. Both are secured by a bandage. Malgaigne, Hamilton, and the majority of experienced surgeons prefer the straight position, with extension, in this, as in all other fractures of the femur; that method of treatment resulting in less shortening and displacement. In children, fractures of the thigh are best treated by means of two long external splints, one for either limb, with an intervening crossbar below the feet, so as to separate the legs a little. Thus the restless little patient is restrained from rolling about, and the perineum can be more readily cleansed to prevent excoriation. Hamilton particularly recommends this retentive apparatus, and I have tried it with much advantage. Practure near the condyles, in the shaft, may be conveniently associated with that of the lower articiilar end. PpvActure of the Lower Akticulak End of the Pemue. The 2 u*