42 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tions demonstrate tbe accelerated rapidity and force of the blood's motion to, and from, an inflamed part. Let an artery toward a part inflamed be divided, and the blood is seen to be ejected to a much greater distance than that from an artery of the same size and distance from the hearb, but not contiguous to an inflamed part. This increased propulsion was noticed by Dr. John Thomson, when the arteries of a finger were divided in whitlow, and when those of the prepuce, much inflamed, were cut in the operation for phimosis. More exact, because comparative and otherwise complete, was the observation of Mr. Lawrence. One hand of a patient being inflamed, venesection was performed, at the same time, and in a similar manner, in both arms: the vein from the inflamed hand yielded about three times more blood in a given time than the vein from the uninflamed hand. The blood's motion from the part was increased. Enlargement of the arteries leading to an inflamed part, in the human subject, is rendered probable by Hunter's well-known experi- ment on a rabbit. Hunter froze the ear of a rabbit, and thawed it again; acute inflammation began, with increased heat, and considerable thickening of the part. The rabbit was killed when its ear was at the height of inflammation. The head was then ejected, and the two ears were removed and dried. The uninflamed ear dried clear and trans- parent ; its vessels were distinctly seen ramifying through its substance; but the inflamed ear dried thicker and more opaque, and its arteries were considerably larger. (6.) Ga'pillary Circulation.—The state of the capillary circulation in inflammation has been observed in the transparent parts of certain of the lower animals, chiefly in the web of the frog's foot, or in the mesentery of that animal, and in the bat's wing. Conclusions drawn from such data relative to the human organism, are inferential only, the physiological and structural conditions being dissimilar. Yet these inferential conclusions represent the remainder of what is known respecting the nature of inflammation, in the human subject. Determination and Congestion of blood co-exist at the seat of inflam- mation. Dr. C. J. B. Williams was one of the earliest observers who demonstrated this conjunction of increased and diminished motion of the blood in the capillary vessels in inflammation, and also that the resulting compound state of the capillary circulation may originate either in determination or in congestion, or in the concurrence of both simultaneou sly. To illustrate the origin of inflammation by the concurrence of deter- mination of blood and congestion, Dr. Williams adduces elperimental observations on the web of the frog's foot, under the microscope. "If," says he, " a strong irritant, as a grain of capsicum, or a minute globule of essential oil, be applied to the Aveb, all its blood-vessels speedily become enlarged ; those most irritated are very large and red, and the blood in them is stagnant and coagulated; contiguous vessels are also very large, but less red, and the motion of the blood in them is slow, and often in pulses or oscillations ; whilst in vessels beyond, the en- largement of the capillaries is less considei'able, but that of the arteries is obvious, and the current of blood is very rapid."* The general enlargement of the capillary vessels is well shown in the bat's wing; * "Principles of Medicine," Edit. 3rd, 1856, p. 323.