GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 340 also, the intervening period of probation is available for surgical inter- ference. Wounds may be tkorougbly cleansed of foreign bodies, and the parts adjusted. Swelling, under tigbt, unyielding textures, may be relieved by incisions. Burnt surfaces may be effectually protected from tlie influence of the air. Most compound fractures and disloca- tions can be soon detected, reduced, and kept in position, ^ Are there any other causes possibly in operation besides the local injury ? Constipation is constant and significant; significant, partly because constant, and also because of the peculiar matter voided when an evacuation does occur. No purgative medicines, however,, that I know of, are specially serviceable. The foregoing preventive considerations are most important; for eveiy practical Surgeon will concur in acknowledging the hopelessness of all known medicinal treatment when the disease is fully developed ; and, in such case, the equal inutility of any surgical operation to relieve the symptoms of, much more to cure, this deadly disease. Remedies, then, there are none, at present known. The long list of medicinal and surgical resources which have been successfully tried, and have failed, Mr. Poland thus enumerates. Antiphlogistics, in- cluding blood-letting, purgatives, calomel, antimony, colchicum, etc., have been extensively used ; alteratives, as the various preparations of mercury, large doses of fixed alkalies, solutions of arsenic, etc.; diure- tics, in the form of tincture of cantharides, oil or spirits of turpentine, given in frequent and large doses, so as to irritate the urinary passages, or to occasion bloody urine; sedatives, such as digitalis, tobacco, nicotina, hydrocyanic acid, aconitina; anodynes and narcotics, as opium, morphia, belladonna, cannabis indica, ether and chloroform internally and by inhalation; stimulants and antispasmodics, including musk, ammoniacum, camphor, turpentine, assafoetida, castor, wine and other stimulants; tonics, such as quinine, bark, strychnia, iron, zinc, etc.; hygienics and dietetics, as support, milk-diet, etc.; injections into the veins of solutions of opium, stramonium, etc.; tracheotomy and laryngotomy. To which may be added, derivation from the spinal cord, by means of blistering, or the actual cautery, applied in the form of a hot iron or by moxse along the spine. This list of variously accredited remedies is at least suggestive of what to avoid, as useless, or perchance noxious, in the course of tetanus. Chloroform may relax the spasms, for a while, and thus relieve pain. It had this temporarily palliative influence in the over- whelming case, after strangulated femoral hernia, which I had reduced by operation. But death may occur under the influence of chlorofoiTQ, by recurrence of the tetanic spasms, even to the production of opistho- tonos ; as happened in a case where I was about to remove a finger which had been mangled by the bite of a horse, and tetanus had ensued.