GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 204 I am not in a position to offer any direct evidence against ulcera- ' tion by absorption in this sense; but I recur to the two series of facts to whicli I have alluded—the one series disproving absorption in any sense, the other demonstrating the disintegration, liquefaction, and discharge of disorganized textures in the process of ulceration, and this apparently without the intervention of any cellular layer, as described by Goodsir, _ In the first place, respecting ulceration without absorption. The veins proceeding from an ulcerated part are obviously much congested in certain cases, and therefore do not allow of that free passage of blood which venous absorption implies. A common varicose ulcer of the leg is a good illustration ; and, as regards the lymphatics, ulcera- tion may occur in a texture destitute of these vessels, or at least in which they have hitherto been searched for unsuccessfully. Ulceration of the cornea is a familiar example. Its conclusiveness is impaired by the presence of lymphatic vessels in, or immediately beneath, the con- junctiva. This anatomical fact was, I beheve, first observed by Dr. Sharpey, who states * that he has distinctly seen lymphatic vessels, distended with their own lymph, on the surface .of an eye which had repeatedly suffered from chronic inflammation. Again, Mr. Gaskell f has brought forward certain facts which are inconsistent with the theory that ulceration is absorption by the lymphatics. Thus, ulceration does not appear to be most common where the absorbents are most freely distributed. They are more numerous and of greater size in the jejunum than in the ileum, yet ulceration is rarely found in the former portion of intestine. The absorbents are freely distributed on the surface of the body, yet spreading ulceration does not extend so readily on the external surface as a little below. Lastly, absorption readily takes place from the surface of serous membranes; nevertheless, their inflammation is rarely followed by ulceration. The independence of ulceration and absorption, whether by the veins or lymphatics, is I think, further established by another species of evidence. " If," as Key remarks, J " the formation of an ulcer be an act of absorption, the parts that are removed in the formation of a chancre are so disposed of; the absorbents, in forming a chancre, carry into the system tissues tainted by the venereal poison, and must there- fore, in every instance, contaminate the whole mass of circulating fluids. A bubo, therefore, ought to be one of the earliest accompani- ments of chancre. Whereas, during the ulcerative stage of chancre, the glands in the groin usually remain free from infection ; it is when the ulcerative stage is at an end that the gland enlarges and bubo forms. In other words, when the absorbents are most actively engaged in producing the ulcer, and in carrying the poisoned mass into the gland, the latter exhibits no sign of irritation ; but when the absorbents are inactive, the gland begins to enlarge." Furthermore, as Wallace § truly alleges, if " ulceration implies absorption, contamination of the system should always follow a chancre," unless, indeed, we assume that the venereal poison may be received into the mass of circulating fluids, without necessarily causing constitutional disease, an admission which we are not warranted in making. * " Elements of Anatomy," 1848, vol. i. p. 260. t " Jacksonian Prize Essay," 1837. MS. Roy. Coll. Surg. Eng. X Op. cit, 1835, vol. xix., p. 141. § '"On the Venereal Disease," 1838, p. 51.