DEGENERATIONS. 185 year and a half, possibly to five years, or an indefinite time. But the ■prolongation of life is a very advantageous consideration. The average duration after operation is nearly five years,—thereby granting a period about twice as long as without operation, or an additional two years and a half, as the advantage gained by timely surgical interference. False Tumours.—Certain swellings, or even distinct lumps, of a transient or movable character, are apt to arise occasionally, simu- lating morbid growths or tumours properly so-called, in various parts of the body. Phantom tumours, appearing and disappearing, may arise from partial contraction of the muscles, any such tumour presenting a firm elastic swelling; as in the walls of the abdomen. When the part becomes relaxed, the apparent tumour subsides. Or, it may travel to another portion of the same muscle, by a similar lumpy contraction, as a shifting tumour, and then to other parts, in a succession of such tumours. These muscular lumps occur mostly in females of an hysterical temperament, being, in fact, a local manifestation of the constitutional malady; and their nature will be further declared by the apparent tumour vanishing when kneaded with the fingers; or, if the muscle be relaxed under the influence of chloroform, no further doubt can be entertained. Floating tumours not unfrequently form within the abdomen, a lump appearing, or becoming perceptible on careful palpation with the hand; but the lump is freely movable, and easily slips away from the touch to some other part of the abdomen, where it may again be found. The patient also feels these migratory movements. Any such tumour may be firm and elastic, and of the size and shape of a kidney; being met with also on one side or the other, commonly in the right loin, the lump resembles a movable kidney, and this, in some cases, is its real nature. But the tumour may be only a dough-like lump of faeces impacted in the cells of the colon, or a tympanitic and sacculated distension of the intestine— these conditions occurring mostly in hysterical women ; and sometimes an ovarian tumour or cyst, loosely attached, may have a floating character, with a more or less solid or fluid consistence. The treatment of any false tumour must of course be guided by its supposed nature. As an hysterical affection, the treatment appropriate might thus prove remedial. But often the phantom or floating lump baffles alike the suggestions of pathology and the resources of experience. CHAPTER III. DEGENERATIONS. ' To clearly understand the significance of the term degeneration, it is 1 necessary to bear in mind the nature of healthy nutrition, of which 1 physiological process. Degeneration is only another modification,— I concluding the Pathology of Nutrition. The functions of the various organs and parts of the body, in health, 5 are so adapted or adjusted as to constitute an evenly balanced living