FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 2 T G41 splint, applied from the bend of the elbow along the forearm, need only extend to the fingers; and bending them over a pad at the end of the splint, gives a flexed position to the hand which is easy and comfortable. A pad corresponding to the line of the radius, betwixt the splint and forearm, will further prevent any tendency to pronation of the upper fragment; while the curved shape of the lower end of the splint, inclining the hand to the ulnar side, corrects the displace- ment of the lower fragment. The short, straight splint applied to the dorsal surface of the forearm, from the elbow to the wrist, affords a counter-support; and with a pad between it and the lower fragment, directly prevents the displacement of this portion of the bone. The splints are bandaged from below ; the hand to the curved portion of the long palmar splint, and the roller being continued upwards around both splints to the elbow. The forearm is then rested in a sling. Much inflammation and swelling speedily ensue in this fracture, sug- gesting a watchful regulation of the bandage. In one case—a woman about thirty, but who had drank hard—spreading (traumatic) gan- grene speedily ensued, and passing up rapidly towards the shoulder, compelled me to amputate there. The patient made a good recovery. The opposite arrangement is Nelaton's plan of applying these splints. The pistol-sTiaped splint, placed on the dorsal surface of the forearm, extends from the elbow along the fingers ; and the open hand is thus inclined by the curved portion of the splint to the ulnar side, correcting the displacement of the lower fragment. The straight, short splint, placed on the palmar surface of the forearm, extending to the wrist or only to the end of the upper fragment, and padded along' its radial border, specially tends to prevent pronation of the upper fragment. A bandage is then applied as already described; and the forearm rested in a sling. Gordon's splint may be used with advantage, for correcting the displacement, when Colles' fracture cannot otherwise be kept reduced. This splint consists of two pieces : an anterior, which is provided with a hollow receptacle for the outer side of the hand, and a posterior splint, which reaches over the back of the wrist. The fracture having been reduced, and the hand placed in the Fig. 243. prone position, the splints applied appear thus (Fig. 243); being retained by a couple of buckling bands. Any displacement of the upper end of the radius is controlled by the anterior splint; while the hand dropping over the end of this spliut, raises the lower or carpal fragment to a level with the upper end. I have not hitherto had occasion to use Gordon's splint preferably to the ordinary pistol-shaped splint; and when I have not used the latter, a double straight splint, the posterior extending to the end of the fingers, while the anterior just catches the carpal fragment, has answered remarkably well; the resulting deformity being no more than almost invariably remains after any method of adjusting Colles' fracture. Union ensues in about a month, but rarely without some displace-