731 DISLOCATIONS OF THE LOWER JAW. to do this successfully may be impracticable, owing to those conditions being, generally, defective forms of structure, which, in producing, also "perpetuate the recurrence of dislocation. It is therefore mostly incurable. CHAPTER XXXV. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Dislocations of the Lower Jaw.—Structural Conditions.—Gomjjlete dislocation on hath sides—double or bilateral dislocation—consists in the dislodgment of both condyles from the glenoid fossaa and their displacement forwards, in front (if the anterior or transverse root of the zygoma, on either side; the coronoid processes thus being brought forward, and corresponding to the under as- pect of the malar bone, on either side. (Fig. 338.) Similar dis- placement on one side only— single or unilateral dislocation —represents the same altered articular relations of the con- dyle, on that side ; with a twist of the jaw to the opposite side. Partial dislocation, or subluxation of the jaw, is, ap- parently, a displacement in relation, to the inter-articular cartilages; the condyles slipping forwards in front of these cartilages, on both sides, or on either side alone. Bilateral dislocation occurs in about two of every three cases. Partial dislocation happens comparatively seldom. Signs.—Certain obvious and characteristic signs attend dislocation of the jaw. The mouth is open, the jaw being drawn down by the action of the genio-hyoid muscles, aided by the genio-hyoglossi, the digastric, and mylo-hyoid muscles ; and the lower teeth project in front of the line of the upper teeth. This open-mouthed appearance is more conspicuous at first, the distance between the teeth extending some- times to an inch and a half; subsequently the jaw become more closed, but the coronoid processes, hitching against the malar bones, mechanic- ally oppose any nearer approximation. Deglutition and speech are interrupted, the lips moving when the person attempts to speak and the saliva dribbling over the chin. The cheeks are stretched and flattened, and the angles of the jaw directed somewhat backwai-d towards the mastoid process of the temporal bone, on either side; a depression can be felt in front of the external auditory meatus, corresponding to the natural situation of the condyle, and an oblong prominence in the temporal fossa, with fulness of the masseter muscle. Dislocation on one side only is denoted by the same signs; but in a lesser