437 IN-GBOWN TOE-NAIL. The disease is sometimes named onychia maligna, as a s^eoific ulceration. Treatment is, firstly, evulsion of the nail; and this is accomplished either by tearing it olf as a whole, by seizing it with a strong, narrow- bladed pair of sequestrum-forceps, or with Hilton's instrument; or, by dividing the nail with a nari'ow-bladed pair of scissors, run up to the root of the nail, and then everting each half with the forceps. Both scissors and forceps must be applied with a firm hand. Local antes- thesia will sufiice to completely deaden sensibility, the pain otherwise being excruciating. Pounded ice and salt mixed in a bladder is con- venient for this purpose, or Dr. Richardson's ether spray answers equally well. Water-dressing or carbolic lotion may then be followed by arsenical solution, one or two drachms of the liquor potassse arseni- caHs to an ounce of water. Chlorate of potash and tonics, especially bark, complete the treatment. Syphilitic onychia, as a secondary affection, has already been noticed. In-grown Toe-nail.—This, is a not uncommon condition, among especially the working-classes ; it may occur on either side of the great toe-nail, but more frequently on the outer side. It is attended with considerable pain in walking, and gives rise to fungoid and sensitive granulations, overspreading and concealing the in-growth, accompanied with a thin, foetid discharge. This condition is caused, apparently, either by overcrowding the toes in a narrow, hard boot, thereby thrust- ing the adjoining integuments over the side of the nail; or, by the toe-nail having been pared away too deeply at the side, thus allowing the integument to overlap ; in either way the nail grows into and includes itself in the overhanging fold of integument. Treatment con- sists in removing any cause of press-ure, as a tight or hard-toed boot, and then endeavouring to correct the faulty growth of the nail. The pressure of the integument on the nail may be relieved by neatly inserting shreds of oiled cotton wool into the cleft by means of a probe or the back of a scalpel-blade. Then, when suflGLciently separated, in the course of some days, the margin of the nail can be gradually raised in like manner, until the natural state of the part is restored. Scraping the edge of the nail very thin sometimes affords sufficient relief; or, by notching the free edge down to the matrix, the strip of nail as it grows, may gradually overlap the body of the nail, and thus bring relief. An obstinate or deep in-growth can only be cured by evulsion of the nail, as in the treatment of onychia. After any such mode of cure, the fungoid granulations subside, or they may be repressed by pencilling with nitrate of silver or sulphate of copper. Zinc ointment may be applied during the healing. Corns.—Local hypertrophy of the cuticle forms the common corn ; a flattened or conical swelling, hard or soft, often acutely painful— varying in this respect, according to pressure on the part, the state of the health, and even the weather. Such cuticular out-growths occur commonly on the feet, usually on th© outer aspect of the end of the little toe; or between the toes, and then always as a soft corn, ap- parently from maceration of the cuticle by warmth and moisture. Occasionally, corns form on the hands, and more rarely over the pro- mmences of the elbows or knees. They are produced by intermittent pressure or friction on some naturally prominent part, as on the little toe, by wearing a tight, hard boot. Eventually, beneath an old corn,