Fig. 324.* TUMOURS OF BONE. 705 the bottom with lint. Granulation will * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., C. 219. Treatment—Fluid cysts may be laid open by removing a portion of the bone, by trephining or otherwise, and the cavity dressed from then obliterate the cyst. Solid cysts must be excised, or recourse had to amputation; according to the size and relations of the cyst. Cystic Tumours.—In bone, as in other parts, tumours occur, containing cysts. Fibro-cystic tumour of bone commences, apparently, in the cancellous tissue, and growing outwards, occasions fracture. The annexed figure represents a section of an enchondroma of the scapula, show- ing cysts, formed by absorption of the cartilaginous portion in parts, leaving the fibrous stroma. (Fig. 324.) The humerus was extensively involved. (See also "Path. Soc. Trans.," vol. i. p. 344.) The Signs are those of cysts in bone: an elastic sensation or obscure fluctuation. The absence of pain, integumental discolouration, and glandular swelling distinguish this tumour and other innocent cystic tumours from Cancer. The femur was the seat of the disease in four cases, one of ^'i^- 325.t ■which is related by M. J. Adams in the " Path. Soc. Trans.," vol. v., and the remaining three, by Mr. Prescott Hewett, are appended to the report of that case. Amputation was followed by permanent recovery in the above cases. Hydatid cysts in bone are interesting chiefly in relation to the fluid cysts, above described. The entozoon has been, in all cases, the echinococcus or acephalocyst (Fig. 325); except in one case, mentioned by Mr. Stanley, where the cysticercus cellulosse was found in the interior of one of the phalanges. But hydatid cysts are very rare; eight cases only being referred to in Rokitansky's work; to which a limited number of instances might be added. These cysts may be seated in a flat bone, as the skull or ilium, or in the expanded head of one or more of the long bones. The diagnosis with reference to ordinary fluid cysts can scarcely be drawn. The cysts increasing in size, fracture takes place, as probably the first appreciable sign; and the bone remains ununited. This, however, is incident to other diseases of bone. A discharge of t Ibid. C. 230. Hydatids in bone, the medullary cavity of the humerus being filled with echinococci in various stages of development; their growth has been attended with destruction of the cancellous tissue, and thinning and expansion of the shell of bone,—eccentric atrophy. About the middle of the shaft, this state has resulted in fracture. The patient waS' a man, aged thirty-four. (Presented by Mr. Boot, of Lincoln.) 2 Z