•i PUNCTURED WOUNDS. 399 | i inevitable. Considering tbat tbe injury is tbe exciting cause of this , gangrene, amputation bad better be performed at once, and at some i height above the apparent seajt of injury. But, in selecting a sound part ■ of the limb, and not merely that wlaich may recover itself as a stump, I it must ever be remembered, that while the damage done by contusion j or laceration is more extensive than may appear on the surface, the I destruction wrought by spreading gangrene, especially in the cellular ] texture, has even a wider range up the limb, than as declared by any discolouration of the skin. The safest parts for amputation are, pro- bably, at the shoulder-joint, when the arm is involved; and in the | upper third of the thigh, when the leg is affected as far as the knee. j The after or constitutional treatment is fully considered in connec- i tion with the general pathology of Gangrene. j Punctured Wounds.—Structural Gondiiion.—A Punctured Wound | is a more or less contused and lacerated wound; varying in depth, but of greater extent in this direction than superficially. Structures may thus be injured far beyond what appears to be the extent of injury, by the aperture in the integuments. Other kinds of Wound—the incised ; and the purely contused or lacerated—may indeed be complicated by their depth; a punctured wound is characterized by this additional | element. Thus, penetration of an artery and the formation of trau- ( matic aneurism may complicate a punctured wound in any part. | Penetration of the brain complicates a punctured wound of the skull; i and similar injury of the lung or heart, or of one or more of the ] abdominal viscera, may complicate a punctured wound of the thoracic j or abdominal cavities respectively. ' The external characters of a punctured wound are comparatively un- important, and not characteristic. Varying in size, from a pin's point to a bayonet-thrust or an aperture of larger size, its shape differs with i the form of the penetrating instrument; the margin of the aperture is ' !: irregular and the surrounding integument bruised, if the wound was ' I ] produced by the penetration of a blunt-pointed instrument; and this ! 1 laceration and contusion are the more conspicuous if the weapon was , ( of increasing size from the point upwards, as a bayonet. The hsemor- II rhage cannot be estimated by the quantity of blood which escapes J f externally. The narrow track of a punctured wound and laceration j (of the textures, rather impede the escape of blood, and are favourable ' t to the formation of traumatic aneurism. If the wound extend into an i internal cavity, as the thorax, hemorrhage may take place yet more abundantly without a corresponding escape of blood from the aperture ', externally. The Symptoms connected with the penetration of particular parts, '■perchance the viscera, are specially significant, in virtue of the function of the part which is thus involved; but, as not pertaining to the general | pathology of Punctured Wound, such symptoms are here omitted. Each successive injury, in depth, is less open to detection, owing to the narrow track of the wound. The diagnosis, therefore, must be ! I determined hj functional symptoms; and it will be remembered that ^ ■ structures of vital importance, possibly, may be implicated, beyond the I :otherwise apparently simple puncture, viewed externally. m Causes, and Effects of Punctiired Wound.—Any pointed instrament, fcbeharp or blunt-pointed—e.g., a pin or needle, a thorn or splinter of Bf'Wood, an old rusty nail, a pen-knife, or a bayonet—represents the i