SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 596 amputation. Ou the other hand, in attempting to save the Hmb, delirium tremens and tetanus were the common causes of a fatal result. Accidental causes, such as bronchitis, need not be taken into account. Treatment.—The same rules of treatment are applicable as for simple fracture; but certain particulars, having reference to the special pathology of compound fracture, are peculiar to its treatment. Beduction of the displacement may present special diflSculties. Thus, if one or both ends of bone protrude—whether this condition was pro- duced by the original force of the fracture, or by the sheer weight and position of the limb, or possibly by rough handling—the displacement can be reduced by suflficient extension of the limb. When, however, such displacement is due rather to muscular contraction, and spasm, acting especially on the lower fragment, which is thus drawn upward ; enlargement of the wound, by incision, will be preferable to forcible extension ; and this proceeding is the more urgent also, in proportion to the circumferential swelling, fi'om haemorrhage or serous effusion. With increasing tension, the protruded portion of bone becomes tightly embraced by the aperture in the integuments, through which it has passed ; a condition not unfrequently witnessed in compound fracture of the tibia, and which obviously suggests the propriety of enlarging the aperture to free the bone. Exceptional cases sometimes occur. When protrusion arises from deformity of the bone, as in rickets, ex- cision of a portion of the bone may then be necessary to reduce the displacement. Union, firm and permanent union, will probably take place, with, or without, the reproduction of new bone as an inter- mediate callus. The limb is ultimately restored to its original length, or remains proportionately shorter than its fellow. In one such case, where the tibia was arched forward, in consequence of rickets, I removed two inches of that bone, an inch from either fractured end ; and the result was highly satisfactory. When, more rarely, the pro- truded portion, although reduced, cannot be kept in place ; it may then be advisable to excise that portion to a sufficient extent for this purpose. But the difficulty can generally be overcome by an altered position of the limb, or by tenotomy; as when the lower end of the tibia is tilted forward by traction on the tendo-Achillis. Sj^Unters of bone have special significance in relation to the treatment of compound fracture, there being an open wound communicating. If only partially detached, any such portion of bono may retain its vitality and regain its connection. But if completely detached, the fragment is obviously a foreign body, and should be removed; a proceeding the more im- perative, when any such fragment intervenes between the fractured ends of laone; thus opposing their reduction and intercepting their sub- sequent apposition, and the process of reparative union. In any case, where a considerable portion of bone is removed in compound fracture, whether owing to protrusion, deformity, or splintering, care should be taken, in maintaining reduction, that the interval between the ends of bone be not equal to the portion removed; lest, an inadequate length of callus being produced, imperfect union should be the result. The Wound.—Keduction-difficulties having been overcome, and the limb retained in position by suitable splints, well padded and protected by oiled-silk from the soaking of any discharge issuing from the wound : then comes the treatment of the wound itself, and state of the soft parts involved. The primary indication is to close the wound, with the view