GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 54 turned upwards at a right angle, and ends in a sharp knife edge, upon which rests the long writing lever d. The centre of movement for this lever D is a pin, which passes through it and into the framework of the instrument at the point f. The screw E passes through the intermediate lever B, close to its free extremity, and rests upon the spring which presses upon the pulse. The movements of the pulse are imparted directly to the spring a, from the spring to the screw E, which rests upon it, by the screw to the intermediate lever B, and from the intermediate lever to the writing lever D. " The writing lever d thus forms a lever of the third order, and though working at a mechanical disadvantage with regard to power, it gains in. rapidity and extent of movement; the small movement im- parted to it by the intermediate lever B, close to its fulcrum F, is greatly magnified by the very great proportional length of the whole lever, and the consequently much greater excursion of its free or writing extremity. By the screw E, the short intermediate lever is kept in contact with the writing lever, the distance between the writing lever and the spring varying with the depth to which the spring a presses into the soft parts, and therefore with the degree of pressure employed and the amount of fat in the subcutaneous tissue. " The pressure of the spring upon the artery is varied by turning the thumb-screw at the side of the instrument, and thus causing the eccentric G to revolve above the spring a. The longer the radius of the eccentric at its point of contact with A, the greater the pressure upon the spring, and therefore upon the artery. The amount of this pressure is indicated on a dial plate, seen at the side of the instrument, and measured in ounces of Troy weight. The pressure employed to obtain a perfect tracing should always be recorded, and the pressure required to completely compress the pulse and arrest the movements of the lever may also be noted. " It is unnecessary to detail at length the method of applying the instrument; suffice it to say that the arm should be placed on a double inclined pad, the angle of which should be about 135°, the instrument strapped on to it, care being taken to apply the ivory pad at the extremity of the spring over the centre of the radial artery, where it lies on the inner side of the styloid process, and is crossing the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint. The proper pressure to employ is that with which the greatest height of upstroke can be obtained. The upstroke should be uninterrupted and the apex shai'p, forming an acute angle with the downstroke, any variation from this being due (except in very rare instances) to an imperfect application of the instrument. The paper on which the tracing is taken should be double enamelled, and enamelled on both sides. It is most easily smoked by burning a small lump of camphor, the size of a pea. After the tracing has been obtained, it may be varnished by passing the slip of paper through a simple spirit varnish, made by dissolving one ounce of gum benzoin, or Burgundy pitch, in eight ounces of methylated spirit.* " The tracing obtained by this instrument from a normal pulse reveals the fact that the pulse felt by the finger is not merely a simple movement of expansion and contraction of the artery, produced by * The instniment and all necessary appliances can be obtained of Mes.«i s. Krohue and Sesemann, 8, Duke Street, ]Mancliester Square. Price seven guineas.