SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUHGERY. vessels become atrophied and much diminished m the course of a few days. / 0— 862 medium of nucleated blastema—by the nuclei developing themselves into fibres (Henlo), or by the blastema itself passing through a fibrous transformation (Paget). The same state of organization—fibro-cellu- lar tissue—is thus attained, by cither of these dilfcrent processes of self-development, or, as I have said, by the association of both in some, probably many, instances of reparation. Fibro-cellular tissue thus produced, consists of cells lengthened and attenuated into fibres. This constitutes an intervening layer of tex- tures as the permanent bond of union,—thence named connective tissue, and Avhich presents externally the appearance of a linear cicatrix, or scar. Fibres of this kind must not be confounded with the very fine filaments seen in coagtolated lymph, and which are produced apparently by the linear coalescence of molecules. The one are cell- fibres, and arranged when finished as fibro-cellular tissue, in fibres having cellular interspaces ; the other are molecular fibres, and inter- woven like felt in various directions, as seen in the clot of buffed and sizy blood, or in coagulated lymph exudation on the surface of a serous membrane. New capillary blood- vessels shoot through the connec- tive tissue (Fig. 85) ; they are formed also in coagulated lymph, and occasionally in blood-clot, as reparative materials. These ves- sels are produced by a highly interesting process of development, as described with that of Healing by Suppurative Granulation, in Contused and Lacerated Wounds. Eventually, the new tissue is fashioned off, so as outwardly to resemble the particular texture in the substance of which it is in- terposed ; but this resemblance scarcely extends to their minute structure. Reproduction of the original texture is, in fact, a rare event. Skin, with its papillas and cuticle, muscle, tendon, artery, cartilage, and bone, in the first stage of fracture-union, are severally represented by fibro-cellular tissue, moi'e or less vascular; nerve is said to be repaired in like manner, and also by the formation of new nerve fibres, which running through the connective tissue, become contiimous with those in the nerve above and below, thus reinstating its continuity. The grey matter of nerve centres would not appear to be reproducible. Inflammation may, and often does, attend the process of primary adhesion ; the healing iS effected by what John Hunter named "adhesive inflammation." The divided capillary vessels, immediately adjoining the lips of the wound, soon become plugged with coagulated blood; whereby the collateral circulation is proportionately increased. Cells, identical with the pale corpuscles of the blood, or with lymph-cells, * Cicatrix of incised wound in the tongue of a dog; after ten days. Development of looped and anastomosing vessels from adjoining sides of the wound, winch diam. (Wywodzoff.) Fig. 85.*