ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 211 tolerably distinctive characters. Situated on some part of the leg, commonly on tlie inner side towards the ankle, and single; in the recent state it is of small size, ovoid shape, and with its long axis in the direction of the limb; without granulations and firm, a bluish- purple colour of the base and more so of the margin and adjoining integument will be noticed, and the ulcer is not unfreqiiently painful and sensitive. Inflammation and sloughing, or other conditions, may temporarily veil these appearances; but the tortuous, knotty enlarge- ment of the venous trunks, or the more difiiused mottling of smaller varicose veins, with, perchance, a brownish-red pigment-stained skin around the ulcer, is still a characteristic accompaniment. In the progress of varicose ulcer, an occasional event of practical importance is venous hsemorrhage; arising from the ulceration having penetrated an enlarged vein, it may occur suddenly and copiously. Treatment.—An indolent ulcer cannot cicatrize so long as it and the surrounding integument are both bound down ; the margin being upraised and retracted, and the base depressed. Accordingly, pressure and stimulation conjoined, represent the plan of treatment. The nitrate of silver freely applied to and around the ulcer, or the continued ap- plication of zinc ointment, with tolerably firm bandaging, may bring it into a healthy condition. A more even and constant pressure is secured by strapping the limb with strips of linen spread with soap- plaster, mixed with a little adhesive plaster to fix it. Drawn around the limb, from the side opposite the sore, each strip in succession should partly overlap the preceding one, and the ends be crossed obliquely; thus forming a compact casement, and which should extend two or three inches above and below the sore. This is known as Baynton's method of strapping. The strips should be changed every other day, to remove the discharge; but when the integument has became softened and loosened, so that the sore is beginning to heal, the strapping may be allowed to remain for a week at a time. At length, simple dressing, and the support of a roller-bandage, will com- plete the cure. Blistering circumferentially, softens and loosens the integument, and may thus tend to facilitate cicatrization. The actual cautery is recommended by Billroth, to induce purulent inflammation, or to destroy the callous edges entirely. A warm-water bath, according to Zeis's practice, has proved very efficacious in softening the dry, hardened borders of the ulcer. Incisions have been recommended to allow the granulations to contract; and, in most obstinate cases, transplantation of a portion of adjoining healthy integument, sufficient to close in the ulcer, may be tried, with the view of forming a substitute cicatrix. Of these resources, I am decidedly in favour of blistering. Opium seems to have some special influence in rendering the granulations florid, and promoting the healing of an indolent ulcer. It is therefore advisable to keep the system under this influence by the repeated administration of opium, in small doses. At the same time, the aid of stimulants, tonics, and a general diet should not be overlooked. When an indolent ulcer has healed, the thin and tense cicatrix may be protected and supported with a pad of lint and bandage, worn as long as may be necessary. The varicose ulcer is amenable to the same plan of treatment; but'