GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 415 but in wMch, tlie bone being struck above or below, the fracture extends into the joint. (6.) Respecting the lower limb :— Compound fractures of the middle and lower part of the thigh, occasioned by gunshot, require amputation. In the upper two-thirds of the thigh, with similar gunshot injury, the mortality following amputation has been so very great, that army sui'geons have generally abandoned the operation. On the other hand, this experience should be supplemented by the counter-fact that such injuries rarely recover. Six cases, however, in the upper third of the thigh, are reported to have occurred during the Crimean War. (Longmore.) We may therefore join issue with the Surgeon-Greneral of the United States Army, in the conclusion that such cases must be left to the judgment of the surgeon. (7.) Gunshot wounds of the knee-joint demand amputation. Ex- cision has not been attended with favourable results. The conditions of gunshot injury to the lower limb, which do not necessarily require amputation, are:— (8.) Fractures in the middle of the leg, unless the arteries are destroyed, or the injuries involve the neighbouring joints. (9.) In the case of the ankle-joint, if the posterior tibial artery and nerve have escaped injury, and if the bones be not extensively com- minuted, an attempt may be made to save the limb. (10.) Respecting the upper limb :— In gunshot injuries of the shoulder and elbow joints, provided the main blood-vessels and nerves are not involved, excision may be practised with a fair prospect of success. Thus, in 14 cases of excision of the shoulder-joint, by M. Baudens, as performed for gun- shot injury, 13 were successful. During the Crimean War also, Mr. Thornton states, that of 12 cases of shoulder-joint excision, 2 only were fatal; and in 17 of the elbow-joint, only 2; while 5 partial excisions of the joint were aU of them successful. In the Russian army, we gather from the report by Messrs. Mouat and Wyatt, that of 20 elbow- joint excisions, 15 recovered. (11.) Gunshot wounds penetrating the wrist, unless accompanied with great laceration, do not necessarily demand amputation. (12.) Gunshot wounds between the phalanges of the fingers or toes, may also be exempted. (13.) Before proceeding to any amputation on account of gunshot injury, great care should be taken to discover whether the patient may not be otherwise mortally wounded. In duly considering whether amputation should be primary or secondary—to give the limb its chance—the large proportion of un- favourable or fatal results of secondary amputation, must ever be taken into account. During the siege of Sebastopol, there were 3000 ampu- tations, among 80,000 wounded Russians. Of the primary amputations of the upper extremity, of the lower and middle third of the thigh, of the leg, and foot, about one-third recovered; but of all the secondary amputations, more than two-thirds died. These results are more than corroborated by those in previous wars. Thus, primary amputation J was successful in three-fourths of the cases, under Larrey, during the J Napoleonic Wars; whereas, of 300 secondary amputations, reported k by Faure, after the battle of Fontenoy, 30 only were successful. In