ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OP THE NECK. 487 The Pulse in Aneurism of Aorta, and Vessels at Boot of the Neclc.— I am indebted to Dr. Mahomed for the following valuable description of the Pulse in connection with the diagnosis of Aortic and Cervical Aneurisms.—" If an aneurism occurs directly in the course of the blood stream passing to either radial, it will usually so far interfere with its flow as to impart to the pulse certain characters, recognizable in some measm-e by the finger, and still more accurately by the sphy- gmograph. These characters will be most marked if the aneurism be on some large vessel taking origin from the aorta, less, so and perhaps altogether absent if the aneurism be of the aorta itself and not in- volving either of its branches. The characters imparted to the pulse- wave are produced by its passage through the more or less elastic sac, which acts in some measure as a buffer, does away with the sudden- ness of the impulse, and diminishes the volume of the wave. The chief characters of the aneurismal pulse recognizable by the finger are— (1) delay; (2) diminution in volume; (3) diminution in force(4)> persistency; (5) thrill. The latter, however, is only occasionally present, requiring certain peculiar conditions for its development. " The characters of the sphymographic tracing in aneurism, together with the corresponding sensations imparted to the finger are as follows— (1) a sloping upstroke = delay; (2) diminished volume of wave; (3) impairment of percussion = diminution in force; (4) obliteration of secondary waves ; (5) inequality of pressure employed on two sides; (6) occasionally vibratile waves = thrill. " All these signs are well shown in Fig. 1276^ obtained from a case of aneurism of the aorta, involving the origin and first part of left subclavian; the right pulse in this case (Fig. 127a.) must not be con- sidered a type of the normal pulse-wave. " The presence of these signs more or less developed in one or both Fig. 127.—Aneurism of Aorta, involving first part of Left Subclavian. (a.) Eight. Pr. 3 oz. (b.) Left. Pr. 2 oz. radial pulses may therefore afford important indications for the diagnosis and localization of an aneurism of the aorta. Thus their presence in the pulse at both wrists would indicate an aneurism of the ascending arch ; but this rarely affects the pulse sufficiently to afford any indications other than such as might be produced by other con- ditions. If the right pulse be affected more than the left, the aneurism must involve the innominate; if the left more than the right, the aneurism is of the transverse arch beyond the innominate. An example