SPECIAL PATnOLOGY AND SURGERY. 768 * After Bigelow. a complicated apparatus—and, I may add, expensive—it may be specially serviceable in country practice, where the Surgeon is often unaided, or in the colonies. Reduction by rectangular flexion, with vertical extension—Bigelow's method—ia guided solely by the state of the ilio-femoral ligament. The thigh must be flexed to a right angle with the trunk, thus to relax this ligament; then the dislocation can be readily reduced by making extension directly upwards. Manual extension may suffice, or the pulleys can be applied, by means of a tripod placed over the limb, to the. apex of which they are hooked. Or Jarvis's adjuster may be employed instead of pulleys. In either way, counter-extension is main- tained by fixing the pelvis to the floor with a belt. Sometimes, there being only a slit in the capsule, which resists the return of the head of the femur into the acetabulum, it will be necessary to circumduct the limb, in order to tear the capsule open, before reduction can be efEected. (2.) Manipulation.—This method of reduction was known to Hip- pocrates, and has since been variously practised by Surgeons in modern times, especially in 1815, by Dr. Nathan Smith, of New Haven; but, in 1851, Dr. "W. W. Reid, of Rochester, N.T., so attracted the attention of the profession to this proceedure, as to have fairly introduced it as an established method of practice. Dr. Reid's method consists :—" In flexing the leg upon the thigh, carrying the thigh over the sound one, upwards over the pelvis as high as the umbilicus, and then abducting and rotating it outwards." Hamilton's description of the proceeding is this:—" The patient being laid on his back upon a mattress, the Surgeon—assuming that it is a dislocation on the dorsum ilii—should seize the foot with one hand and the other he should place under the knee; then, flexing the leg upon the thigh, the knee is to be carefully lifted toward the face of the patient until it meets with some resistance; it must then be moved outwards and slightly rotated in the same direction until re- sistance is again encountered, when it must be gradually brought downwards again to the bed. We do not know that the whole process could be expressed in simpler or more intelligible terms, than to say that the limb should follow constantly its own inclination." In attempting the reduction of dislocation into the ischiatic notch, by manipulation, the same author warns us of the special danger, " that the head of the bone will be thrown across into the foramen thyroideum." Bigelow's directions for manipu- lation are very similar:—To flex the thigh upon the abdomen, abduct and then rotate outwards (Fig. 379) ; or perhaps adduct and rotate slightly inwards to dislodge the femoral head from behind the acetabulum, then to abduct and extend directly upwards. Circumduction may be necessary to lacerate the capsule more entirely, be- fore reduction can be accomplished. The following summary of a paper—prepared by Dr. Hamilton Fig. 379.*