ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 203 attention to this fact when first he advocated the doctrine of ulceration by absorption through the veins, rather than by the lymphatics, as Hunter had alleged. "When," says Mr. Key,* "the sequestrum is removed from its case of new bone, and the interior of the latter is exposed to view, a number of flocculent bodies are seen attached to a membrane that supplies the newly formed bone. When injected, these are shown to be highly vascular, and are seen to fill the indentations in the dead bone. If the latter be carefully taken out of its case of new bone, these vascular elongations will be found to have a slight attachment to those parts of the dead bone in which they are embedded." The absorbent function of this new vascular apparatus is in accord- ance with other facts of similar import. Thus, Sir A. Cooper f pos- sessed an injected preparation of an ulcer of the leg, in which the veins were developed in a remarkable manner. They were numerous and large, and surrounded the margin of the ulcer. In another preparation of ulcer of the leg the lymphatics were injected, but th.ey appeared to be neither increased in size nor in number. These observations prove the possibility, and even the probability, of ulceration by absorption ; yet this view of ulceration is overruled by two series of facts. Before stating them, I may mention a kind of compromise of the question at issue, and which I allude to chiefly on account of the general accuracy of observation which its distinguished author, Pro- fessor Goodsir, has evinced. Groodsir maintains, or did maintain,J that ulceration is a process independent of the vessels, both veins and lymphatics, they being " passive agents, mere ducts for conveying away the products of action. " A rapidly extending ulcerated surface appears, as if the textures were scooped out by a sharp instrument. The textures are separated from the external medium by a thin film. This film is cellular in its constitution, and so far it is analogous to the epidermis or epithelium." It is alleged that this cellular layer possesses the peculiar (vital) power of disintegrating the subjacent texture, and that by virtue thereof, so far from ulceration denoting a diminution of the formative power of the part, progressive ulceration represents its undue activity. " The apparent diminution is a consequence of the extremely limited duration of existence of the cells of the absorbent layer, which die as rapidly as they are formed, disappearing after dissolution partly as a discharge from the surface, but principally through the natural chan- nels by which the debris of parts which have already performed their allotted functions are taken up into the organism. " In this view of ulceration there is substituted, for the hypothetical active or aggressive power of absorption ascribed to the veins and lymphatics, a power which is known to exist in the organic cell during the progress of its growth; and the ultimate removal of the matter from the scene of action is ascribed partly to the formation of discharge, partly to the yet unexplained, but at the same time undoubted, and in all probability passive, agency of the returning circulation." * "Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1833, vol. xviii. p. 215. + Ibid., vol. xviii. p. 212. t " Anatomical and Pathological Observations," by J. Goodsir and H. D. Good- sir, 1845, p. 14 et seq.