WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. 381 probability of healing hy adhesion, and tbe improbability of purulent, or other septic infection of the blood—pycemia. (a.) Respecting hcemorrhage after amputations, in eleven cases of acupressure only one was followed by secondary hteraorrhage; whereas in eleven cases of ligature, four of secondary bjemorrhage occuri'ed, of which two were fatal. Such were the comparative results after ampu- tations at the Carlisle Hospital (Hamilton's Report). In other words, in that institution, secondary haemorrhage from ligature and from acupressure was as four to one in eleven cases. Other favourable results might be added. The most recent report is that of Professor Pirrie, who, with Dr. Keith and Dr. Fiddes, has more especially practised and advocated this mode of _ arresting arterial haemorrhage. The former enumerates his experience in important cases, of which records have been kept, as comprising the following operations:—Eleven cases of amputation of thigh, four of amputation of leg, two of ampu- tation of arm at the upper part of the surgical neck of the humerus, one of amputation at ankle-joint, one of Chopart's amputation, two of amputation of the whole of great toe, twelve of excision of mamma, six of excision of elbow-joint, one of excision of knee-joint, one of excision" of an erectile tumour, one of excision of tumour on chest, one of ex- cision of tumour on thigh (wound eight inches long), one of excision of head of fibula, three of excision of testicle, one of hEemorrhage from sloughing of hand, one of wound of hand, one of wound of upper part of forearm with great haemorrhage, one of wound of radial artery, and one of wound of hand attended with great hgemorrhage; in all fifty- one cases, and in which he has acupressed 185 vessels. But experience has not yet sufficiently accumulated to determine the relative value of these two kinds of treatment with reference to the improbability of htemorrhage supervening. Nor has pathology hitherto determined this question. " We want," acknowledged Sir James Simpson, " a series of proper experiments and observations as to the actxial pathological mechanism by which acupressure occludes the mouths and tubes of arteries, before we can attain fixed ideas as to its progress and completion." Accordingly, in the year 1867, I endeavoured to supply this desideratum by post-mortem examination of the process of occlusion in arteries, after acupressure, and its relation to the treatment of surgical hsemorrhage, compared also with ligature and torsion. The results of my observations were communicated in a Paper to the Clinical Society, in 1871. Previously, the observations of Mr. H. Lee and Mr. J. W. West, respectively, relative to acupressure were brought before the same Society. The practical object of my inquiry was, by a due knowledge of the process of occlusion, to determine the proper period for the safe withdrawal of the needle from a main artery, as the femoral, and the various periods in respect to different-sized arteries; rather than having recourse to the perilous mode of investigation, by tentative experience on living patients, in the treatment of haemorrhage by acupressure. Thus would be determined the hability of secondary haemorrhage occurring in this mode of treatment. Occlusion, after acupressure, consists, essentially, in the formation of a conical clot, adjoining the transverse line of acupressure, or needle; this clot increases in length, extending up probably to the first colla- teral branch of artery, and it increases also in calibre, so as to com- ] pletely occupy the bore of the vessel at, and for some distance adjoining,