MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 19 contracted with, stricture, then certainly we can learn nothing but the direction of the passage by practising on the dead body. In passing an instrument, the Surgeon's hand should be tempered by the vital conditions o£ the urethral canal,—its muscular irritability, its nervous sensitiveness, and perchance its disposition to bleed; coupled with the various states of organic induration and contraction met with at the seat of stricture. Should retention of urine demand relief, additional pathological knowledge may be needed. The variable size, shape, and consistence of the prostate, and even its relative position to the neck of the bladder, as altered by disease and examined during life, will further determine our pathway,—per urethram, or per rectum,—when guided no longer by pure anatomy and lost to sight. Approaching the bladder, and inspecting the scene of other opera- tions designed to gain an entrance thereto, we find, wherever we seek admission, that our procedures should be governed by anatomy, modified by the twofold conditions of disease and life combined. Is it our intention to remove a calculus by the lateral or Cheselden opera- tion ? Then what availeth it us to know that our incision through, the skin may also divide the superficial perineal branches of artery and nerve, and will inevitably sever the inferior hgemorrhoidal ? 'No anatomical knowledge, however exact, could foretell how far distant the artca^ of the bulb may be from the margin of the triangular ligament which is not seen; nor can we discern the transverse artery and muscle, and still less perceptible are a few fibres of the levator ani. Yet such are some of the misleading details of Anatomico-Surgical works respecting "the parts cut in lithotomy," or "the structures divided in this operation." All we know, or care to know, is, that as our first or perineal incision was directed by anatomical considerations, so also that a trifling stroke or two with the knife is continued until, guided upwards by the point of our left forefinger, it enters the groove of the stalf just in front of the prostate gland; the knife being then carried onwards through this body into the bladder, is followed by the finger; which, at once a protector of the rectum, a blunt gorget, and searcher, is required to discover the pathological conditions of the prostate and bladder, as it dilates the former and explores the latter, for the situation of the stone, just before sliding the closed blades of the forceps over the finger, as the guide thereto. The foregoing illustrations afford sufiicient evidence of what Pa- thology can do for the performance of Surgical Operations. Without the knowledge of Anatomy, attired in the garb of disease and life, neither safety nor success can be attained in the planning and performance of Surgical operations. " The operator,—I would say, without this knowledge,—is seen agitated, miserable, trembling, hesi- tating in the midst of difficulties, turning round to his friends for that support which should come from within, feeling in the wound for things which he docs not understand ; holding consultations amid the cries of the patient (before the days of chloroform), or even retiring to consult about his case, while he lies bleeding, in great pain and awful expectation." But the old carpenter style of Operative Surgery, derived merely from the dissecting-room, is passing away ; it belonged to a period when Surgery ranked with the mechanical arts, and shared their honours.