SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 49G Fig, Congestion and inflammation of tlie lungs is another affection not unfrequently consequent on ligature of the carotid. The explanation ot this condition is dilficult. It may arise from deficient influence of the bram or medulla oblongata in its relation to the respiratory move- ments. Suppuration of the sac is apt to occur, as with other aneurisms, and even some weeks or months after the application of the ligature! Secondary haemorrhage is another untoward event. Recurrence of pulsation in the sac, soon after the ligature of the common trunk—on the cardiac side—is not an uncommon nor un- favourable event. It would appear to depend on the free communica- tion of the arteries from the opposite side of the brain, returning blood through the branches of the internal carotid above the sac. A collateral circulation, however, becomes established through branches of the subclavian on the same side. Thus, in a case related by Porter, after ligature of the right carotid, the subclavian and vertebral arteries were enlarged to double their normal diameters ; the latter artery supplying the function of the internal carotid, and the inferior thyroid communicating freely with the superior thyroid artery. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneueism, of the Carotid Artery.—Ligature, im- mediately above and below the seat of wound, is the appropriate operative procedure, as in wounds of other arteries. Aneurismal Vartx of the Carotid Artery and Jugular Vein.—Resulting from punctured wounds in the neck implicating both these vessels, in one instance, related by ]\Ir. Macmurdo, aneurismal varix was consequent on disease. The only specimen with which I am acquainted exhibits a varix of the internal jugular vein, im- mediately above the junction with the innominate vein. This varix ascended and almost surrounded the common carotid artery, enlarging to the size and shape of a goose's egg. (Fig. 132.) The external carotid passes through the varix, being isolated to about half an inch in extent, and the internal carotid lies along the cavity behind. Internal Carotid. Extra-cranial Aneurism.—Stjmptoms.—The internal carotid, before its entrance into the carotid canal, may be the seat of aneurism. In situation, therefore, it nearly corresponds with aneurism of the common carotid at its bifurcation: but that of the internal carotid is situated under, or more immediately below, the angle of the jaw. The symptoms, also, are similar to those of common carotid aneurism, but there is » St. Thom. IIosp. Mas., Y. 155.