734 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. determined by crepitus, wliicli may be absent in fracture, and present in all the dislocations accompanied with fracture; but a peculiar rigidity of the spine in the position assumed by dislocation, the trunk inclining immovably forwards, backwards, or more commonly to one side, will generally be diagnostic. Causes.—The same as in fracture; falls on the head, feet, or back, and violent flexions of the spine backwards, or to either side. Termination.—Dislocations of the spine are, obviously, of a serious or fatal character; and—like fracture—more so, the higher in the spinal column dislocation takes place. Treatment.—Reduction of the displacement is impossible, or would be perilous; and but little can be done beyond the general treatment for fracture of the spine. Dislocations of the first two cervical vertebrae are conveniently referred to the first bone. The aflas may bo dislocated from the occipital bone; specimens of occipito-atloidean displacement having been reported by Lassus, Paletta, Bonisson, and Dariste. In each case, the displacement was incomplete ; but death speedily ensued, except in the last case, where the patient survived for more than a year, and then died from tubercle in the brain. Dislocation of the atlas from the axis—atlo-axoid displacement—has been known to occur forwards or backwards, or as a lateral rotation of one articular process forwards. The ligaments which keep the odontoid process in place may or may not be ruptured. Thus, in forward dislocation of the atlas, the odontoid process of the axis passing backwards, may rupture the transverse ligament, with its superior vertical appendage, attached to the basilar portion of the occiput, and carry down also the odontoid and suspensory ligaments connecting the process with the condyles of the occiput. Or, with similar dislocation of the atlas, the odontoid process may slip from under the transverse ligament to behind it, leaving that ligament intact, but rupturing its inferior vertical appendage, attached to the root of the process, and also carrying down the odontoid and suspensory ligaments. In both these liga- mentous lesions, the occipito-axoidean ligament—a continuation up- wards to the basilar grove, of the posterior common ligament—must also be torn. Lastly, fracture of the odontoid pi'ocess at its base may have occurred. The obvious importance of these lesions, accompanying dislocation, is their relation to the falling backwards of the odontoid process on to the spinal cord; complete compression causing instant death. This is said to be sometimes the mode of death in hanging; and it probably happened also in the sad case of the late Bishop of Winchester, who fell on his head from horseback, and died instantly. Dislocations op the Ribs have been met with, occasionally, at either their vertebral or sternal articulations. In the former situation, the head of the rib is sometimes dislocated, and always forwards; generally one of the lower ribs, including the false or floating, has been thus displaced. This injury is usually associated with fracture of the transverse or spinous processes of the corresponding vertebra, or with fracture of another rib. The signs of this dislocation will be obscure; the depression and mobility of the rib, adjoining the spine, might indicate fracture, and in such case the distinctive crepitus may bo absent, owing to displace- ment, or imperceptible, through the depth of the fragments. Either injury also may arise from a fall or blow on the back.