844 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. coupled witli the depressing influence of mental anxiety, may lead to an attack. Again, some bodily injury, slight perhaps in itself, may be sufficient provocation. It is in its traumatio production that delirium tremens most interests the surgeon; as with relation to ^wounds, fractures, operations, or other forms of injury, and their treatment. My experience inclines me to regard traumatic delirium, in some cases, as a form of delirium tremens, excited in a person predisposed by habitual intemperance. For I have observed that, in such persons, the delirium has no relation to the severity of the injury,—that even a slight lesion, as an incised wound, especially of the scalp, may have the effect of exciting the disease; and the almost immediate commencement of an attack after such injury, would seem referable to a predisposing condition, in the state of the nervous system, from chronic alcoholism. The cowse and terminations of this disease are further considera- tions of special significance; the delirium passing off, and giving way to sleep, the patient recovers ; or a fatal issue takes place, either by coma, or from exhaustion. Onv prognosis will be guided accordingly. Treatment.—Certain general indications with regard to treatment are obvious; namely, to induce the natural mode of recovery, and to avert the tendencies to death. Sleep must be procured, as soon as possible. If this indication can be fulfilled, by one sound sleep of a few hours' duration, the patient wakes up, rational, placid, and re- freshed ; in contrast with his previous state of delusion, and restless agitation or violence, yielding only to prostration. Of all narcotics, opium is the most efiicacious. Experience cannot set any definite limit to the doses which may be administered, so great may be the tolerance of the system for the influence of this medicinal agent. But not to overstep that tolerance, in our endeavour to invite the return of Morpheus, the operation of opium in contracting the pupil, and reduc- ing the frequency of the pulse, affords the best criterion of how far its narcotic elfect can be borne with safety. The hypodermic method of administering morphia offers considerable advantages in delu'ium tremens ; the narcotic action being more certain, speedy, and effectual; without any aggravation of the dyspeptic and hepatic symptoms, com- mon in this disease. Thus, in the following case from the Report of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, on this subject (1867), the comparative merits of subcutaneous injection are well illustrated: —A tailor's clerk, who, after giving up drinking for some time, had returned to his old habits, was suffering from severe delirium tremens. He had taken half-grain doses of the acetate of morphia at night, and twenty minims of liq. morph. hydrochloratis thrice daily, for two days, nntil the pu.pils were contracted, and yet he remained sleepless. The pupils were allowed to recover their natural state, and then only one- third of a grain Avas injected into the arm; the patient went to sleep in three-quarters of an hour, and no further opiate was required. Chloral is sometimes given in conjunction with opium; or as a substitute, when that narcotic provokes sickness, or does not prove successful, or when the drug has lost its effect, in the case of an "opium-eater." Thus, then, there are cases where chloral may be resorted to. But, as a narcotic, it is not preferable to opium. On the contrary, chloral is not equally potent; its action is capricious, and not without danger to the life of the patient. It may be administered