463 ANEUEISM. necessary to entirely arrest the stream of blood through the artery above the aneurism, and therefore unnecessary to obliterate the vessel by inflammation, in order to effect a cure. It is only requisite to lessen the force of the stream, and temporarily; in order to give a fair start to the deposition of laminated fibrine, and so at length regain the balance of resistance naturally offered by the artery to the pulse-wave of blood passing through it. A degree of compression just suflScient for this purpose, and applied intermittently for a few Piq, 114, hours daily, will represent the kind and amount of assistance necessary; instead of complete occlusion and by continuous pressure, which might lead to obliteration of the artery. This, the old method of compression, as employed by Dubois and Pelletan, has been judiciously superseded by the more conservative modifica- tion introduced by the Dublin school, and with which the names of Bellingham, Hutton, Tufnell, and Carte are principally associated. Compression is the means employed in either case ; but the old method was simply blind empiricism, the modern one is a strict imitation of the mode of natural cure. Instrumental Compression.—Various forms of Instruments have been devised for compress- ing an artery, above the seat of aneurism. The ^i®- compressor used may be in the shape of the horse- shoe or Signoroni's tourniquet (Fig, 114); or that invented by Carte (Fig. 115), the advantage of which is that it pro- vides an elastic and yielding pressure, in- stead of the unyielding force of the screw. Be- fore applying this or any compressor, the limb should be evenly ban- daged, to prevent con- gestion of the vessels, as much as possible; and the irritation occasioned by the pad of the instru- ment may be much pre- vented, by shaving and powdering the integu- ments of the part. The degree of compressing force appropriate should be estimated by its effect in controlling the pulsations in the aneurism ; it being only necessary to suspend them without entirely arresting the transmission of blood. The total dwra-