CONSTITUTIONAL OB SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 279 is ready for use. Resting on an iron tripod stand, the bottom of the pot is exposed to the flame of a spirit-lamp, placed snfBciently near, so that the flame shall expand under the whole bottom. In two or three minutes, the calomel begins to pass into vapour, and, the lid having been raised for a moment to ascertain that fact, the patient is told to inspire through the mouth-piece, at the same moment closing his nostrils between his thumb and forefinger, and then to expire through the nostrils; and so on alternately, breathing in a naturally free and easy manner. After about ten or fifteen minutes, all the calomel will have been inhaled as vapour, save a small quantity which adheres as a thin, white film to the interior of the pot and tube. In two cases wherein I have resorted to the inhalation of calomel- vapour for the treatment of secondary syphilis, with ulceration and sloughing of the throat—the teapot inhaler I improvised having been used—the following facts are worthy of notice for guidance in general. (1.) In both cases, previous treatment by mercury, and iodide of potassium, administered by the mouth, had been tried, successively, and failed; and, in one case, it was impossible thus to continue the treatment, these medicinal agents being absolutely rejected by the stomach with nausea, and constantly recurring sickness. (2.) The gradual process of inhalation,—ten or fifteen minutes, and the quantity used, twenty grains. (3.) Explosive coughing after inhalation,—variable in period of sequence, in its degree, and duration, but subsiding spontaneously and permanently. This might be moderated by reducing the quantity of calomel to, say, half—ten grains, while the same beneficial influence might be gained by repeating the inhalation. (4.) Slight salivation, in about forty-eight hours, and disappearance of the secondary symptoms; ulceration of the throat, especially. (5.) Compared with mercurial inunction, and with the mercurial bath; the inhalation of calomel vapour is more speedy and effectual, in its systemic influence, than the one, and far more so than the other. (6.) As to safety; in one of the two cases, the patient died, some days after inhalation, from bronchitis and pneumonia, but this patient had a very feeble venous circulation, and his constitution had been worn out by an Indian climate, and great intemperance, more than by constitutional syphilis. In the other case, the pulmonic effect of inha- lation was inconsiderable, and the process was repeated on four different occasions, without any danger. The balance of evidence, from these two cases, is, therefore, in favour of inhalation; and relatively also to mercurial inunction, and the mercurial bath.* Excessive mercurialization produces symptoms which it may be con- venient here to notice. They are; profuse salivation, swelling of the salivary glands, gums, tongue, and face, ulceration of the mucous meTu- brane, loosening of the teeth, and even necrosis of the jaws. Diarrhoea, with bilious evacuations. Certain varieties of skin diseases, e.g., mer- curial eczema. Periostitis and ostitis, otherwise than connected with the mouth. Low fever with great prostration or mercurial erythism. Nervous affections—e.g., neuralgic pains, partial paralysis, or mercurial tremor, sometimes complete paralysis and death; usually observed in those subject to the action of mercurial fumigation. * Summary of a Paper read before the Harveian Society, London.