GENERAL PATHOLOaY AND SURGERY. 254 glands, producing sympathetic bubo ; or proceed from the absorption of poisonous matter, or virus; or it maj depend on constitutional causes, as scrofula. (I.) _ Syphilitic or Indurated bubo denotes absorption of the syphilitic virus from the primary sore, which, on its way to the blood through the absorbents, irritates the nearest absorbent glands —commonly the inguinal—whereby they become swollen and hard, and perhaps suppurate. Compared with chancre, bubo can scarcely be called a primary symptom, for although the time of its accession after chancre is uncertain, it is always somewhat later. On the other hand, it has been held that bubo may possibly arise from direct absorption, without the previous formation of chancre; that bubo may thus be the only primary symptom. Such buboes, therefore, have been named "primary buboes," and by the French, "bubous d'emblee." But the existence of non-consecutive bubo, as indicative of true syphilis, is inconsistent with the present state of knowledge; although a simple inguinal adenitis may arise without any appreciable lesion of the genitals. Indurated bubo begins at a period of about eleven days (Rollet), and never later than two weeks (Ricord), after the commencement of chancre; or, usually, at a somewhat earlier date, the time when induration of the base of the chancre takes place. (Bumstead.) It appears as a hard, bullety, and scai-cely painful swelling of the lymphatic gland, nearest to the spot whence the poison was absorbed; the absorbents themselves proceeding to the enlarged gland, share this inflammatory induration, and sometimes feel like hard whipcord. Along the back of the penis, such cords may be felt leading to the groin, where generally, just above Paupart's ligament, lies the swollen, bullet-like gland. In the female, if a chancre be situated on the fore part of the vulva, this swelling is found at the external abdominal aperture; if situated posteriorly, then betwixt the labium and the thigh, inflamed lymphatic vessels lead to a swollen, hard gland in the groin. Commonly, as Bassereau observes, more than one gland is affected, forming a multiple bubo, of small olive-shaped or globular tumours, having a cartilaginous hardness, and which are freely move- able upon each other, being unattached to surrounding tissues, or to the overlying integument; and this little mass corresponds in direction to the inguinal fold. Almost painless, or only slightly tender, it does not interfere with walking. Sometimes the bubo is situated on the opposite side of the chancre ; or both groins may be affected, presenting double inguinal bubo. Chancres within the urethra, on the perineum, the anus, the mouth or neck of the uterus, the lower part of the abdomen, or the buttocks, are equally associated with inguinal bubo. Biit, when the vessels of absorption pass through other than the inguinal glands, the bubo will be situated elsewhere. Thus, Hunter saw a syphilitic bubo far down on the thigh. The course of indurated bubo is slow ; reaching its full develop- ment in a week or two, its ultimate duration varies from several weeks to five or six months (Bumstead), or may be prolonged even to a period of years. (Ricord.) Like chancre, it is thus essentially indolent and usually more persistent. It terminates by resolution; suppuration is a rare event, having occurred in only sixteen out of 383 cases, according to Bassereau, while Fournier met with only two in 265 cases.