Fig. 223. 630 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. a shoiildei--splmt of gutta-perclia or pasteboard is moulded to tbe shoulder and arm, both of which are then secured to the chest by a bandage, and the forearm rested in a sling, without raising the elbow, its weight tending favourably to prevent the recurrence of displace- ment upward. (Fig. 223.) Union may not take place in fracture of the anatomical neck, or hgamentous only, or perhaps even a false-joint fonns, if the neck be detached completely within the capsule. Sometimes, the head remaining as a foreign body, it undergoes partial absorption—as shown by Gibson; or it may induce inflammation and suppuration, resulting in its extrusion, or necessitating removal surgically. Im- pacted fracture is apt to unite by bone, with the formation of an exuberant osteo- phytic deposit around the head. Compound Fracture of the Upper End of the Humerus.—Often comminuted, and with great contusion of the soft parts, this condition of injury occurs only from gun- shot wound of the shoulder, involvinsr probably the adjoining glenoid cavity, or the processes of the scapula, or the axillary vessels and plexus of nerves. Treatment. — Excision may be per- formed, when the injury is restricted to the head of the humerus, with, perhaps, splintering of the glenoid cavity or scapular processes; and the best results have followed this operation in such cases. Amputation must be resorted to in any additional injuries to the vessels and nerves. Fracture of the Shaft of the Humerus.—(1.) Below the inser- tion of the three muscles into the bicipital groove, and above the insertion of the Deltoid.—Fracture in this portion of the shaft differs only from that of the surgical neck, in the relative displacement of the two portions of bone. The upper portion is drawn inwards, by the three muscles inserted into the bicipital groove ; the loiver portion outwards and upwards, by the deltoid muscle, and in the latter direction especially if the fracture be oblique. The Signs also, thence arising, differ accordingly. Thus, deformity of the arm is presented, corresponding to these displacements, and consisting of two projections—an upper and a lower—but the upper will be felt on the inner side, the lower on the outer side, of the arm. Mobility of the fragments is very perceptible, giving a hinge-like motion to the arm on the gentlest handling, and crepitus can be readily elicited by extension and rotation; inclination of the humerus out- wards, with some shortening of the arm, are equally conspicuous; and although the pain of manipulation may be less, the powerlessness is not less complete, than in fracture of the surgical neck. In a case, recently under my care, of fracture of the shaft just above the deltoid, all these signs and symptoms were well pronounced. (2.) Below the insertion of the Deltoid.—Fracture in this portion of the shaft differs only from that above the deltoid, in the relative displacement of the two portions of bone, which are liere reversed. The loiver portion is drawn inwards and upwards, by the flexor