SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. G32 Fracture in tbis situation happens more frequently in adults though still only occasionally. ' (2.) Separation of the Lotver Epiphysis.—The same displacement occurs, and attended with the same signs ; the diagnosis from that of dislocation of the fore- arm backwards is also similar. But the crepitus is less marked than in fracture, owing to the surfaces being cartilaginous at the line of disunion ; and thus this injury more nearly simulates disloca- tion. The mobility, however, is distinctive. This injury happens only in children, and not uncommonly. (Fig. 225.) Before ossific con- solidation has taken place, fracture can hardly occur just above the joint. (3.) Fracture of either Condyle.—The external or the internal condyle of the humerus may be fractured obliquely outwards, or inwards, and extending into the elbow-joint, thus completely separating the condyle. Or, again, a vertical fracture may extend from the joint upwards, bounded by a transverse fracture through the bone, thus separating hoth condyles, as occurred in a case of mine at the Royal Free Hospital. (Fig. 226.) Fracture of either condyle may be associated with fracture above the condyles. (Fig. 227.) With single fracture, there is not much displacement; but on taking Fig. 226. hold of the process between the thumb and finger, it can be moved backwards and forwards, with crepitation; the forearm is flexed and, perhaps, supine. With double fracture, there is more displacement, and especially when the condyles are separated by pressure in the longitudinal fracture; the condyles are freely movable, with distinct crepitation; the forearm is flexed and, generally, in a state of pronation. Contusion, with considerable pain and swelling, usually accompanies these fractures in the vicinity of the elbow ; and particularly fracture of either, or both, condyles. Causes.—Direct violence, as by a heav^y blow or fall on the elbow, • St. George's Hosp. Mus., 252. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mas., C. 141.