BURNS AND SCALDS. 421 Avliicli were beniambed witli cold during a rigorous winter, immersed himself in a batli heated to a high temperature. In a short time he experienced a general feeling of uneasiness, with acute pain in the skin. He was immediately withdrawn and carried to the H6tel Dieu, where he expired in thirty-six hours ! It is reasonable to suppose in this case, that although the water was heated to a high temperature, yet it was not at the boiling point, and that it acted only as a general rubefacient, -without raising or destroying the cuticle; and yet here was a burn of only the first degree, but very extensive, and therefore accompanied with a shock to the nervous system, so sudden and overwhelming as soon to have proved fatal. Beep burns, when not superficially extensive, are of comparatively subordinate importance; their significance having reference generally to the remote consequences of such burns, by exhaustion from sloughing and suppurative discharge. Causes, and their Effects locaUy and constitutionally.—Heat applied to the body is necessarily the cause in all cases; but it may have been either by fire, as by the clothes catching fire, the explosion of gun- powder or other explosive compound; or by means of a hot or scalding fluid, as boiling water or molten lead. The lesions produced in the former way are commonly designated burns; in the latter way scalds. This distinction is of practical consequence; burns not unfrequently resulting from the more prolonged application of heat, are deeper lesions, but perhaps of less superficial extent; scalds resulting from the more momentary application of heat, are more superficial, but generally they affect a larger extent of integument. Any adhesive fluid, as boiling oil, is a more persistent cause, and boiling perhaps at a higher tempera- ture than water, it affects the tissues to a greater depth, as well as superficially. Some such fluids, clinging to the skin, run over a yet greater extent. Thus, then, scalds may be even more severe than burns, by the duration of the cause; the amount of lesion, super- ficially and in depth, being perhaps equal. Explosive compounds are destructive, not only as causing burns of considerable extent, but also by the mechanical violence of their ex- plosion, producing wounds which might be called burnt wounds, con- tused and lacerated. Grains of gunpowder, grit, mud, or other material may, moreover, be introduced as foreign bodies into such wounds. Wounds of this kind were well marked in the persons of the unfor- tunate victims of the " Clerkenwell Explosion," admitted under my care into the Royal Free Hospital. In all cases, the wounds were not only lacerated, and ingrained with dirt, as if portions of flesh bad been gouged out by extremely forcible splashes of mud; but the surface of these wounds and surrounding integument were appa- rently burnt and contused by the concussive atmospheric force of the explosion. All the wounds sloughed for some time, with a yellow, and freely suppurating surface; healing very slowly by granulation. The cicatrix contracted, and assumed a seamed, puckered appearance, notably in the wounds of the neck ; just like the cicatrix presented by the healing of a burn. Bums and scalds immediately induce pain and shock, both of which are more or less severe according to the superficial extent of lesion. The symptoms of shock, affecting the nervous system and circulation, are the same as those arising from any other injury. But