621 FRACTURE OF THE CLAVICLE. the shoulder at the seat of fracture. The raotions of the arm are scarcely impaired, as a sufficient support in the larger portion of the clavicle remains. Causes.—Indirect violence, the more common cause, produces fracture in the usual situation—the outer curvature, and obliquely across the clavicle. The long and slender form of the bone, and its function, that of supporting the upper extremity from the trunk, render it peculiarly liable to fracture, in receiving every impulse through any of the component bones of this extremity. Thvis, falls on the hand, elbow, and shoulder especially, are common causes of fracture in the curve of the clavicle. Direct violence produces fracture in the part struck, and probably of a comminuted character. Thus, any part of the bone, on either the sternal or scapular side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, may be the seat of fracture from direct violence. The subcutaneous and exposed position of the clavicle renders it liable to be broken in this way. A heavy, crushing blow illustrates the corresponding class of causes. Muscular action, as in using a whip, has been known to break the clavicle; the fracture occurring near the middle of the bone, without displacement or only slightly forwards, and usually on the right side. Treatment.—On the sternal side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, displacement of the outer fragment,—inwards, forwards, and down- wards, must be overcome by giving the humerus an opposite direction, —outwards, backwards, and ujDwards. The first direction is accom- plished by a jpad in the axilla, and the latter two, by inclining the arm inwards across the chest and raising the elbow ; Desault's method of treatment, and which I, among most other Surgeons in this country, have usually practised. To keep the pad and arm in this position, many contrivances have been used. Before applying any such retentive bandaging or apparatus, it is well to provide against the supervention of swelHng in the arm and hand, by padding the palm with cotton wadding or other soft material, and bandaging from the fingers upwards to near the axilla. Then a good-sized pad, enclosed in a handkerchief, should be placed well up in the axilla, and the arm close to the side, so as to draw outwards the scapular portion of the clavicle to an even apposition with the sternal portion; the pad being secured in its place by tying the handkerchief at the opposite Fig- 211. side of the neck. Inclining the arm inwards across the chest, until the hand points upwards to the opposite shoulder, a few turns of a roller round the chest enclosing the arm, above the elbow, will secure this position. (Fig. 211.) The forearm should then be slung in another hand- kerchief, from the hand to the elbow ; care being taken that the elbow is w-ell supported, upwards. Any par- ticular shifting or loosening of these simple retentive appliances, subse- quently, must be corrected; but the fracture should not bo readjusted unnecessarily. Union, and of an