DISEASES OF ARTERIES. 559 is a manifestation of declining nutrition, witli disintegration and atroplij of the natural texture-elements, and the substitution of a new material, of a lower organization, or perhaps merely inorganic; thus resulting in a transfoi'mation, which is incident to advancing life, or which may occur prematurely. Age, therefore, implies a natural pre- disposition to degeneration. This change becomes more frequent and extensive, and the various retrogressive transformations become more complete, in proportion to the age of the individual, from mid-life downwards. Yet, on either side of life's zenith, there are exceptions ; premature ossification of the arteries having occurred in some rare cases at the early period of a year and three months, and at only 3, 8, 18, and 24 years; while, on the other hand, in quite old age, some persons are exempt from any arterial degeneration. Such exceptions, however, only verify the rule, and this—^with regard to ossific de- generation of the arteries—is supported by the results of chemical analysis respecting the proportionate amount of earthy matter in healthy arteries, at successive periods of life. Thus, Gmelin found that the amount of earthy matter in the coats of the arteries progres- sively increases as life advances ; that in a newly born infant, the ash of these vessels yields only 0"86 per cent, of phosphate of lime; in the adult, 125 ; in an old man, 2"77; and in an aged man, 4"01 per cent, of earthy matter. Bat constitutional predisposition is evinced by the marked tendency to arterial degeneration in persons under the influence of certain blood-poisons or diseases; notably, in connection with albu- minuria from chronic kidney-disease, in chronic rheumatism and gout, in constitutional syphilis, and in phthisis. How the morbid blood- conditions in these diseases impair nutrition is doubtful; perhaps sometimes by inducing an inflammatory process, the products of which may pass into the retrograde states of atheromatous and cretaceous matter. Sex does not seem to have any special influence on arterial degeneration ; males and females, of the same age, being about equally often affected; or women somewhat less frequently, and at a later period of life. But, in the two sexes, different arteries are more especially liable to degeneration ; according to Bizot, the arteries of the upper limbs,- in women ; those of the lower limbs, and the coronary arteries of the heart, in men. Consequences.—Arteries which have structurally retrograded into the various states of cartilaginous, atheromatoas, and ossific trans- formation, have thus more or less lost their elasticity and resiliency, whereby the blood-streams through such vessels are misdirected ; or the vessels being converted perhaps into rigid tubes, they are unfitted to transmit a varying quantity of blood ; or having become narrowed, and partially occluded, they transmit less blood than may be required. Consequently, in the organs or parts depending on a due supply of blood for their nutrition and functions, degeneration of their arteries is not only attended with various functional disturbances, but structural alterations or diseases of the organs ensue, in various forms of mal- nutrition, and which have fatal tendencies or terminations. The principal effects and consequences of arterial degeneration are as follows :—Symptoms of defective or deficient circulation, as manifested by coldness in the extremities, spasmodic and neuralgic affections ; atrophy and degeneration of organs, as of the heart, when the coronary arteries are diseased, causing angina pectoris and sudden death;