660 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Compound Eracture op the Femur—often comminuted—results, usually, from direct violence, as severe contusion or gunshot injury. Treatment.—The rules of treatment for Compound Fracture in general are liere applicable; whether with regard to preservation of the limb intact, excision of splintered portions of bone, or amputation. The amount of injury to the soft parts—integument, cellular textures, muscles, vessels, and nerves—as well as the fracture itself, mainly determines these questions of treatment. ' With, the view of giving the limb its chance, the fracture having been reduced, a long splint should be applied, as for simple fracture; the sijlint, however, being " interrupted " opposite the injury, to facili- tate the application of dressings. Excision might possibly be the means of saving the limb, short of the comminuted or splintered por- tions of bone removed. But I have not met with a case as regards compound fracture of the feimir; though I have succeeded in thus pre- serving the leg in compound fracture of both the tibia and fibula. Amjputation may prove successful in the middle third of the thigh, but never at the hip-joint. If, therefore, the fracture be so high as to render it doubtful whether amputation in the former situation should be per- formed, or an attempt made to save the limb, the Surgeon must use his own judgment in steering between Scylla and Charybdis. In a recent case of this kind, I was compelled to have recourse to amputa- tion at the hip, owing to the shattered state of the limb, and the persist- ing dribbling haemorrhage in spite of tourniquet compression. The patient, as usual, died in a few hours. Compound fracture, involving the Jcnee-joint, necessitates excision ; or amputation, primarily or secondarily, when excision has failed. Fracture op the Patella.—Stnictural Conditions.—In fracture of the jsatella, the line of fracture is generally transverse, and across the Fig 268 * middle (Fig. 268), or sometimes the upper rim only of the bone. Longitudinal fracture may occur ; 'Or comminution more frequently, the bone being starred and broken into three tolerably equal pieces. More or less laceration and opening of the synovial capsule has been known to accom- pany simple fracture, as shown by a specimen in the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. The upper fragment is drawn ujDwards, by contraction of the quadriceps extensor muscle; the lower frag- ment, fixed by the ligamentum patellae, remaining stationary. The Signs of fracture are sufficiently obvious: a depi*ession or in- terval into which the finger readily sinks, between the two fragments, and niore perceptibly when the joint is flexed; mobility of the frag- ments, and probably some crepitus, when the limb is extended. Pain may be inconsiderable, but marked inabiUty to raise the limb, in addition to the above signs, can never be overlooked. (Fig. 2G9.) Fracture of just the upper rim, without any rupture of the aponeurotic capsule of the joint, will probably render these signs obscure. In one such case, and since, a second case, the patella seemed to me of the usual shape and size; no interval could be detected, the small crest-piece of bone not being drawn upwards, but sHpping down into * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 543. Transverse fracture of patella. Incomplete osseous union.