674 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 287* consequent on inflammation. (Pig. 287.) Within these spaces the fatty matter and earthy salts—detritus of the osseous tissue—accutnu- late; and the products also of inflammation are deposited. They con- sist of plastic lymph and exuda- tion-matter, or pus ; the one kind I'ig. 288.t of deposit resulting in induration and hypertrophy of the bone (Fig. 288), the other in increased softening and disorganization. The description of these changes belongs to the conse- quences of Ostitis. Scrofulous ostitis structurally resembles simple inflammation of . bone ; the osseous substance be- I ing disintegrated and absorbed. Thence the bone is light, soft, and oily. But the rarefied cancelli or spaces in the compact texture are filled with peculiar products; a red jelly-like matter, or occasionally, a deposit of tubercle. The former is always diffused. The accompanying chemical changes—according to Dr. Black's analyses—consist in a considerable increase of fat in the diseased bone, a large diminution of the salts of lime, a diminution of the organic matrix, and an increase of the soluble salts. Associated with these destructive alterations, minute projections of bone from the walls of the cancelli evince an attempt at osseous reproduction, thus corresponding to the induration or sclerosis which results from simple inflammation of bone. Tubercle in bone may be either diffused or circumscribed; the latter form being comparatively rare. Diffused tubercle occurs commonly in the shaft of long bones. It occupies the cancelli, and appears as a nodulated, or granular, yellowish mass of soft consistence; extending frequently along the whole length of the shaft. Circumscribed tubercle is deposited most frequently on the outside of the skull, beneath the periosteum, constituting the strumous node ; and scarcely less frequently, in the cancelli of the articular end of a long bone, usually the tibia. Tubercle in bone sometimes becomes actually encysted; as well as in the lungs, in which organs I have seen cretaceous tubercle enclosed in a distinct cyst. Tubercular deposit, in either form, is prone to undergo softening; the diffused, it is said, passing into this state, less frequently and rapidly than the circumscribed. This change is always one of serious consequence. The softening of tubercular deposit induces, or is attended with, inflammation of the surrounding bone, and suppuration. An abscess thence results, and the bone around becomes condensed aiid indurated. Or Caries and Necrosis ensue, destroying the osseous * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 132. Necrosis of wall of femur, near the lesser trochanter, with rarefaction of the cancellous structua-e between it and the great trochanter. t Ibid. A. 3.