251 SYPHILIS. greyish-yellow membranotis secretion, consisting of disintegrated tex- ture and pus-globnles; and the margin of the ulcer is a little under- mined and vertical, instead of sloping inwards to the base, as in hard chancre. No induration ensues, so that when the prepuce, for example, is retracted, the nicer bends upon itself, instead of rolling over eji masse, like the indurated chancre; and on raising the sore between the thumb and finger, it feels quite soft and doughy, its edge and base moving easily, and a little pus oozes out; it is a soft and suppurating ulcer, the "soft chancre," or the "simple, non-infecting chancre," so named by Ricord. Attended with some loss of substance, the ulcer heals by granulation, generally in a shorter period than chancre, and cicatrization leaves a depressed and permanent scar. This soft, suppurating sore has no period of incubation ; it appears from two to four, rarely five days, or within a week, after exposure to contagion. Chancroid is much mOre common than chancre ; perhaps in the proportion of 4 to 1, though some say 3, or only 2 to 1. It may be solitary, but is often multiple ; and it affords no protection against recurrence, conferring no immunity whatever for the future. The ulcer is reproductive by inoculation, and the reproduced sore can be propagated in like manner. Hence, this fact supplies a diagnostic test of chancroid ; or, as often happens accidentally, the purulent secre- tion affects contiguous parts. The nicer is sometimes associated with a soft and suppurating enlargement of a neighbouring lymphatic gland, as in the groin—a suppurating bubo. The possible co-existence of chancre and chancroid—the indurated and the soft, suppurating ulcer—or of either species with gonorrhoea, must not be overlooked. And the co-existence of the two species may occur in the same sore—a suppurating ulcer, with an indurated base, an auto-inoculable discharge, and which is capable of communicating syphilis to an uninfected person. Such is the mixed chancre of Rollet and the French school. The consequent bubo may be both indurated and suppurating. Mixed chancre is produced by double inoculation, occurring perhaps at the same time; as in sexual intercourse, when a healthy man has connection with a woman having both a chancre and a chancroid; oi' the inoculation of either species may be engrafted upon a pre-existing ulcer of the opposite species. In either case, when fully developed, mixed chancre can be propagated, in both its kinds, by successive inoculation from one person to another. But prior to full development, when double inoculation has occurred, chancroid first appears, which by contagion will only reproduce itself; and towards the close of ulceration, whichever kind of sore lasts the longest, it will reproduce itself only. Chancroid may be contracted by an individual affected with secondary or tertiary syphilis ; and the ulcer then retains its identity of character, and runs its course. An apparent interchange of the two kinds of ulcer is liable to happen, temporarily, from various accidental circumstances; so that the chancre, even when indurated, may perchance suppurate for a while, owing to some cause of irritation ; and the soft sore may, for a time, become somewhat hardened by irritation, although it still discharges a purulent fluid. But, when the disturbing cause is removed, either kind of ulcer re-assumes its original and distinctive characters.