738 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. apparent dislocation of the scapula to paralysis of the serratus magnus muscle. The appearances come on slowly ; if they were due to a sudden slipping of the bone over the latissimus dorsi, the patient or his friends would hardly say " the shoulder-blades have been growing out for weeks or months." The serratus magnus binds the scapula in its place against the ribs, and its inferior bundles play a most im- portant part in raising the arm above the head. In the condition to •which we are alluding, the power of elevating the arm is much impaired. The affection seems occasionally to follow a fatigue of the muscle. In another case cited by the same Surgeon, the patient, a nurse, attributed the weakness and pain in the shoulder to years of attendance on an old lady, whom she used to rub for chronic pleurisy. The clinical history of "paralysis of the serratus magnus" is recorded in a case which Dr. Vivian Poore brought before the Clinical Society of London, February 12, 1875. Treatment—The treatment, observes Mr. Owen, should consist in rubbing and shampooing, and in the use of the interrupted current. One may give a more favourable opinion of the result if, on passing the current down the course of the nerve of Bell from the root of the neck to the costal attachments of the muscle, the scapula is braced up into its proper position. Bandaging the chest is futile ; and if the surgical mechanician is intrusted with the treatment of the case, he will probably supply an ingeniously constructed corset, whose expense is only equalled by its uselessness. Dislocations of the Shoulder-Joint.—These are the commonest of all Dislocations. The head of the humerus may undergo displace- ment—downwards, into the axilla, subglenoid; forwards, subcoracoid and suhclavicula.r; backwards, on the dorsum of the scapula beneath its spine, subspinous. These dislocations occur in the same order of relative frequency; the first named being by far the most common; the second, occasional; and the third, very rare. Subcoracoid dislo- cation may, however, be the most frequent; Professor Flower's investi- gations showing that of 41 specimens in the Museums of the London Hospitals, 31 are subcoracoid; and that in Fig. 343.* 50 cases known to him, 44 were of this form. Partial dislocation is said to occur; either as the subcoracoid, or a dislocation upwards —supra-glenoid—under the acromion. But the former dislocation is complete, the head of the humerus being lodged entirely out of the glenoid cavity, in the illustrative case given by Sir A. Cooper; the upward dislocation is incomplete, the head of the bone lying partly in the glenoid cavity. Structural Conditions.—(1) Dislocation downwards or subglenoid;—the head of the- humerus is lodged in the axilla, just below the glenoid cavity, and resting on the in- ferior costa of the scapula (Fig. 343), between the subscapular muscle and the long head of the triceps. The capsular ligament is torn to a * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 8. Dislocation of the head of the humerus down- wards into the axilla. The capsular ligament is laid open in front, and the head of the bone rests on the inferior costa of the scapula, beneath the glenoid cavity.