721 DISLOCATION. tlie round ligament in hip-joint dislocations; but—according to the observations of Sir A. Cooper—if one such ligament remain entire, it may occasion difficulty in the reduction, as he experienced with respect to the knee and ankle joints. In dislocations of the latter joint, it is often necessary to twist the foot, in order to relax the untorn ligament, before reduction can be effected. In dislocation of the proximal pha- lanx of the thumb on the posterior aspect of the metacarpal bone, ib may be necessary to divide, subcutaneously, one of the lateral ligaments ; the external being most easily reached. In all cases, coaptation should be guided by a due knowledge of the pathological conditions, and not effected by mechanical violence. Coaptation is announced by a snap, a jerk, or sensation of some- thing having given way; this being the signal that the muscles have done their duty by drawing the head of the bone home. If, therefore, the muscular system be paralyzed, as under the influence of chloroform, or if the particular muscles engaged be weakened by prolonged ex- tension, or extension be overpowering at the time of coaptation; in either case, the usual signal cannot be given. But the limb immedi- ately assumes its natural length and attitude, as in repose; and the natural contour of the joint is recovered. The latter sign is the one most available in practice; for the natural length and shape of the limb cannot be compared otherwise than by suspending extension, a cessation of effort which would at once undo all that had been gained, if coaptation be not accomplished. The natural mobility of the limb is immediately regained with coaptation; and this sign, coupled with the anatomical characters just mentioned, plainly declares that the natural articulation, is restored. Being thus assured of tbis event, the Surgeon need do but little more. Muscular contraction, having finally brought the bone into place, retains it there. Unlike fracture, the reduction of which is ac- complished easily, but maintained only by watchful care, dislocation is reduced only by watchful care, after which the muscles take care of the joint. To maiutain coaptation, it is necessary only to fix the limb, and in a suitable position for the relaxation of any muscles which by their action might re-dislocate the bone. This indication is easily fulfilled by securing the limb with a bandage ; the arm to the chest, the leg to its fellow. Position and immobility are the more requisite on behalf of shallow joints, and if the ligaments be naturally loose ; both of which conditions characterize the shoulder-joint. The twofold pre- caution of position and immobility is yet more necessary on behalf of any dislocation, when the muscles which usually prevent its recurrence are themselves naturally flabby and weak, or have been weakened by the dislocation, and by the extension necessary for its reduction. If, in such case, the limb be not securely fixed and supported in a suitable position, it may re-dislocate itself, not so much by the action of anta- gonistic muscles, as by the mere weight of the limb. Rest of the limb, thus retained in position, will also favour the sub- ; sidence of any inflammation which may have supervened. But, the inflammation being subcutaneous, it terminates in resolution, very : rarely in suppuration. Any so-called antiphlogistic treatment, there- ; fore, is as seldom necessary; certainly not of a constitutional character, i and locally only, by the application of a cold lotion in the first instance ; 3 A