187 DEGENEEATIONS. same sucli causes; namely, diminished supply of arterial blood, as by partial closure of the chief nutrient artery of the part; or by abi-ogation or suspension of function. Futhermore, both degeneration and atrophy occur commonly in old age, but possibly prematurely; both also may occur simultaneously in one and the same texture, under precisely the same conditions; and a cause of atrophy in one case may cause degeneration in another. In relation to disease, both may co-exist, as in inflammation; or the disease, so called, may be only degeneration, as in simple softening of the brain or spinal cord, and the liquefaction of inflammatory exudations during the suppurative process. General characters of Degeneration.—(1.) The new material is of lower chemical composition; i.e., less remote from inorganic matter, than that of which it takes place. Thus, fat is lower than any nitrogenous organic compound, and gelatine lower than albumen, and earthy matter lower than all these. (2.) In structure, the degenerate part is less developed than that of which it takes the place : it is either more like inorganic matter, or less advanced beyond the form of the mere granule, or the simplest cell. Thus, the approach to crystalline form in the earthy matter of bones, and the crystals in certain old vegetable cells, are characteristic of degeneration; and so are the granules of pigment and of many granular degenerations; and the globules of oil that may replace muscular fibres or the contents of gland-cells, and the crystals of cholesterine that are often mingled with the fatty and earthy deposits. (3.) In function, the part has less power in its degenerate than in its natural state. (4.) In its nutrition, it is the seat of less frequent and less active change; and without capacity of growth, or of development. General Treatment.—The pathological indications of treatment, in regard to degeneration, are two :— (1.) To elevate the condition of degeneration to some higher state of textural structure. This indication cannot be fulfilled by any known Hygienic or Therapeutic measures. The practicability of effecting recovery from degeneration would seen to be inconsistent with the vital incapacity of a degenerate part for growth or development. (2.) To counteract any further degeneration in an already degene- rate part, or its extension to texture continuous. This indication may, perhaps, be accomplished by Hygienic and Therapeutic measures, either of which are general or topical. It would appear that whatever in- fluence, of a preventive tendency, any such measures may have, their action is mainly through the medium of the blood, by raising its quality and promoting its circulation. Hygienic measures, of a counteractive character, have reference to the functions concerned in blood-production. Diet, selected with regard to the particular form of degenei'ation, pure air, friction of the skin, shampooing, baths warm or cold,' regular exercise, and other means of promoting excretion, are thus highly important. Medicinal measures, within the present range of therapeutics, are less obviously counteractive of degeneration. Iron, cinchona bark, the mineral acids, and other tonics, may have some beneficial influence, by improving the quality of the blood and invigorating the circulation; while aperients, diaphoretics, and diuretics increase and regulate the excretions of the bowels, skin, and kidneys. Some such resources are