GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. at once followed by this disease in persons associating therewith, and, being withdrawn, the disease at once ceases to multiply. It has been affirmed by some men of observation that this law holds good only of erysipelas affecting the face and scalp. Arnott and Wat- son are of this opinion ; but, restricting, as they do, their definition of this disease to its manifestation on the head and face, the law of in- fectious propagation becomes absolute. Other authorities, however— and the majority—who do not take this locaUzed view of erysipelas, are inclined to acknowledge its propagation by infection. I can throw into the scale my testimony as to the infectious character of facial erysipelas, and probably of every Idiopathic manifestation of the disease on any part of the body. Are fomites capable of transmitting this disease ? Yes, certainly. Among the earlier writers, Wells observed that a certain patient caught erysipelas in consequence of being laid in the unchanged bed of one who died of it. In one of my cases of knee-joint excision, two months after the operation, when the union was fairly firm and the wound had entirely closed, the patient, a female, aged fifty-three, caught erysipelas from having been transferred to a bed where the mattress had been accidentally stuffed with some flock previously used in the bed of an erysipelas case. The attack, thus communicated, was so severe—the inflammation extending up the limb to the loins and lower part of the abdomen—that she nearly lost her life. But the wards of an hospital may themselves become contaminated, and communicate the disease on a larger scale. By Gibson's report, already quoted, we learn that a woman, with erysipelas of the hand, having been admitted into the Montrose Infirmary, and the patients in either adjoining bed having become affected, the whole ward was then cleared out, cleansed, whitewashed, and fumigated. " Yet when they were again placed in that ward the disease reappeared," and it became necessary to remove all the patients from this little infirmary, and to take every precaution ere the infection was eradicated. The contaminating power of fomites, in the shape of furniture, floors, etc., is evinced by the fact that dry- scrubbing instead of washing the floors of an hospital, or the decks of a ship, is the surest safeguard against this source of infection. But fomites of all kinds retain most tenaciously the poison of erysipelas; and, indeed, Gregory is of opinion that this poison is banished with more difficulty than other known miasm. The period of latency or incubation—varying in each kind of infec- tious disease—in erysipelas, extends from two to fourteen days; and when developed, the infecting area is twenty to thirty feet. External causes.—Erysipelas acknowledges, apparently, a traumatic origin, in some instances. Hence all kinds of wounds, injuries, surgical operations, and irritants,. such as blisters, caustics, etc.—are accre- dited causes of this species of inflammation. Besides mechanical and chemical irritants, heat and cold may be accorded their share of im- portance. The situations or parts of the body more commonly affected with traumatic erysipelas, may be arranged, according to Billroth's ex- perience, in the following order of fi'equency : the lower limbs, then the face, upper extremities, breast and back, head, neck, and abdomen, this scale corresponding to the proportionate frequency of injuries in the different parts. Sometimes, erysipelas appears and proceeds as