GENEBAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 314 Goniagion.—This mode of communication can be traced as the only cause, m all cases since the days of La Motte, 1722, and Pouteau, in whose posthumous works, published 1783, hospital gangrene was first specially noticed. Pouteau observed that it may be communicated to the most healthy wound or ulcer in a person of the best constitution, and breathing the purest air, by merely placing in contact with any such wound or ulcer, sponges, lint, etc., contaminated by contact with a sore undergoing the disease. Thomson concurs in the accuracy of this observation, as well as advocating the infectious character of hospital gangrene. Delpech traced its propagation in almost every instance to the direct application of the morbific matter to the sores. Blackadder also recognized this mode of propagation in ninety-nine cases out of every hundred, Welbank arrived at a precisely similar conclusion. He speaks of the disease as being highly contagious by using the same sponges to different patients. And Guthrie specifies this as one of the " conclusions" of his observations during the Peninsular War. Nay more, that it is contagious through the medium of the atmosphere applied to the wound or ulcer. Boggie's experience during the same war compelled him to admit that hospital gangrene may be propagated by contagion, although he is disposed to attribute less importance thereto than to the continued operation of other local causes of an irritating character, in the shape of dirt, acrid appHcations, motion or mechanical irritation; attributing also considerable importance to other stimulating causes affecting the constitution, as hot weather, stimulating food, and the intemperate use of wine and sj)ii"ituous liquors. In short, Boggie considers it inflamma- tory gangrene, and recommends antiphlogistic regimen. While, however, admitting that all such conditions—local and constitutional—m&j preclisjjose to hospital gangrene, it does not arise in numberless instances where they are conjoined in full operation. Their essential importance,- therefore, cannot be allowed. The etiology of hospital gangrene is so far obscure that its cause or causes, in thej^rsHnstance of its occurrence, require further elucidation. The general conclusion is this:—The disease may arise from over- crowding in an ill-ventilated hospital or other institution; also, possibly, from epidemic influence ; and that the disease is perhaps communicated by infection, from the sore itself emitting a poisonous exhalation; but it is assuredly also propagated by contagion. Treatment.—Guided by the etiology of hospital gangrene, the nature of our preventive measures is at once suggested. Provision should always be made for space and ventilation, relative to the number of patients, in the arrangements of an hospital, or of the wards allotted to the reception of wounded cases, whether from accident or surgical operation. When the first case appears in any hospital or other institution, our immediate object is to decompose the poisonous slough and discharge, and, moreover, arrest the progress of gangrene. Strong caustics, such as will fulfil these intentions, should therefore be forthwith applied. Arsenic was originally recommended by Black- adder. The liquor arsenicalis, or diluted Avith an equal quantity of water, or with twice that quantity, was used, according to the emer- gency of the case. Strong nitric acid was first employed by Welbank. Either of these caustics, or even the actual cautery, should be applied until a new, hard, dry slough is formed, encrusting a clean and healthy