246 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. excess in tlie blood, is the materies morhi of gout. Obviously, thero- fore, the preventive measure which should be directed against sucli accumuJation is this:—To allow only that farticular amwunt of animal food which, with daily exercise in proportion, will preserve the blood free from uric acid, short of the trace existing in health. Now this goes a stop beyond mere experience. Guided by an exact knowledge of the essential morbid blood-condition from whence proceed all the phenomena of gout, we are enabled so to regulate tbe health as to prevent this disease. Exact information of the blood-condition, respecting any individual in question, can be readily obtained by abstracting a very small quantity of blood for analysis, or by examining the serum exuded under the application of a blister. Moreover, by this scientific knowledge we are led to rationally admi- nister certain medicines in aid of our hygienic preventive measures. Alkalies—of which the bicarbonate of potash is perhaps the most eificacious for prolonged use—may be administered daily, to neutralize any fresh accession of acid; and colchicum, as a diuretic, will aid the elimination of urate of soda by the kidneys. The mineral waters of Vichy, Wiesbaden, and other places of known repute, owe their virtue chiefly to similar qualities ; but in speaking of the principle of preven- tion, I need not enter further into detail. To illustrate the prophylactic management of gout. Dr. Grarrod relates a case, on the authority of Sir H. Halford, in which colchicum with quinine taken in moderate doses daily, gave immunity for two years, when previously scarcely two months elapsed without an attack. Curative Treatment.—Having due regard to the origin of the gouty diathesis—by mal-assimilation, primarily or secondarily—hygienic measures are also curatively important. A reduced proportion of animal food is obviously the leading curative measure, and active exercise daily to increase the elimination of any excess is equally necessary. No remedial measures are at present known for directly correcting mal-assimilation in respect to lithic acid or other products. The elfect of increased bodily exercise may be to increase the destructive meta- morphosis of the highly nitrogenous textures, i.e., muscle, and thus directly increase the production of lithic acid : but this may also react beneficially in subsequently correcting the mal-assimilation. Lithic acid passing off in the urine as lithate of ammonia, the latter is liable to be decomposed by the action of any free acid present in the urine ; and lithic acid being insoluble, it appears as a deposit of reddish-yellow sand, consisting of crystals, which may aggregate aud form a calculus. The administration of alkalies to neutralize the acidity of the urine is indicated, of which bicarbonate of potash is, perhaps, the best for oft-repeated use. Other alkalies employed for this purpose are the bicarbonate of soda, the acetates, tartrates, and citrates of soda and potash, phosphates of scda and ammonia, and borates of soda and potash. Hence the therapeutic efficacy of various mineral waters, to which gouty patients resort: the waters of Vichy, Homburg, Wiesbaden, Carlsbad, Kissengen, and Aix-la-Chapelles. Conversely, the removal of any source of acidity is also indicated; but this refers chiefly to hygienic considerations. Thus, with regard to food, the vegetable acids, or that which will form them, as sugar or starch in the food, should, in Dr. Bence Jones's opinion, be pro-