SPECIAL PATHOLOaT AND SURGERY. 716 mixed state constituting traumatic delirium or prostration with ex- citement ; which may be succeeded by tetanus. But, in general, no such serious consequences need be apprehended; after the dislocation has been reduced, the immediate shock of the previous injury soon passes off. Beparation.—The ruptured ligaments, and tendons, if any be torn, are disposed to re-unite by primary adhesion, without inflammation. Lymph is eiiused which speedily passes into fibrous tissue, through the medium of nucleated blastema. Any superfluous reparative material, and the blood extravasated by the injury, are absorbed ; and thus the concomitant swelling subsides. The joint is ultimately re- stored to nearly its originally perfect construction. This presupposes the previous reduction of the dislocation. If the bone remain dislodged from its natural articulatory surface or cavity, then a new joint is constructed, the formation of which will be described in connection with Unreduced Dislocation. The Prognosis of reduced Dislocation is favourable, with regard to re-union of the ruptured ligaments and the tendons, if any be torn ; their reparation by adhesion being subcutaneous, and not affected by exposure to the air, as in the healing of an open wound. But the prognosis must be determined by a due consideration of all those internal causes which either aid the recurrence, or may pre- vent the original reduction, of Dislocation; and which are, moreover, persistent in their tendency to perpetuate the displacement. Causes of recurrence may be noticed first, they being among the conditions already mentioned as predisposing to Dislocation. Some of these conditions are, as we have seen, anatomical; a patulous shape of the articular surfaces, laxity of the ligaments, and a long lever-like bone, on which many muscles act. Hence dislocations of the shoulder- joint are specially apt to recur, and less so hip-joint dislocations. Hinge joints are, anatomically, less disposed to re-dislocation. Other such causes are morbid conditions; ulceration of the articular carti- lages, with perhaps caries of the adjoining bone, relaxation of the ligaments, a weakened or paralytic condition of the muscles. Of causes opposing reduction, may be mentioned the anatomical shape of the articular surfaces; as the prominent rim of the acetabulum, in hip-joint dislocations, and the cup-shaped head of the radius, which is locked in front of the humerus, in dislocation of that bone forwards. Any ligaments which may not have yielded with dislocation, seem to bind down the bone; as the first phalangeal bone of the thumb when dislocated upon its metacarpal bone. Tonic conti'action of the muscles can scarcely be regarded as an unconquerable source of opposition; but the structural change of the muscles which accompanies their permanent shortening and functional adaptation, in unreduced dis- location, is a condition of resistance, not to be overcome judiciously by- forcible reduction; and less so in proportion to the duration of this condition. The prognosis is that of unreduced dislocation, with the formation of a new or substitute joint. Treatment.—After Dislocation, especially of the orbicular joints, the muscles which favour the particular displacement draw the head of bone into its new position, and there fix it; but this displacement, and fixation, are accomplished gradually. The head of the humerus, for example, having been displaced forwards by the violence which