702 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1,186. Fig. 322.* the the The compact variety, consisting of solid bone, is of small size, and is very hard—hence named ivory exostosis. It is generally situated on the flat bones, especially the cranium; occasionally on the scapula, ilium, or the great toe, from the ungual phalanx of which I have removed such an out-growth. This variety of exostosis, observes Sir James Paget, occurs in two forms. Some grow on the exterior of the bones of the skull, in smooth, spheroidal, or lens-shaped lumps, attached, commonly, by rather narrow bases. Others, which are usually of deeply lobed and nodular shapes, grow in the diploe, or the frontal or other sinuses, whence, as they enlarge, they project through the gradually thinned and perforated layers of bones that at first enclosed them. The former kind rarely in- crease to an inch in diameter; the latter may increase to many inches, and they commonly project into the cavity of the skull, as well as externally, or into cavities of the orbits or any other adjacent parts. The cancellous or spongy variety, consisting of open medullary texture of bone, containing marrow, and invested with a very thin layer of compact tissue, is of considerable size, and yields somewhat under pressure. It is generally situated on the shaft of a long bone ; particularly the femur, on its inner surface, just above the condyle (Fig. 322); the head of the tibia ; or phalanges of the fingers or toes. Such exostoses are outgrowths from the epiphyseal cartilages, and are thence named by Virchow " enchondrosis ossificans." Another very common situation, according to Mr. Holmes' observations, is beneath the deltoid muscle; but here I have never met with the cancellous variety of exostosis. In both conditions, the structure of exostosis usually resembles that of the bones on which they severally grow. Thus, the compact variety has a concentric lamellar arrangement, with Haversian canals; the cancellous variety, when continuous with the spongy substance of the epiphysis, is overlaid with a layer of hyaline cartilage, a line or a line and a half in thickness, and this growing in itself and from the periosteum or jDerichondrium, rapidly becomes ossified towards the centre. Mucous bursBe sometimes form on epiphyseal exostoses : these sacs contain ossifying cartilaginous growths, loose or attached, and communicate with the neighbouring joint,—such bursge being, according to Rindfleish, prolongations from the articular synovial membrane. Inflammation and suppuration of any such acquired bursa may seriously complicate an exostosis, otherwise quiescent, and lead perhaps to destruction of the joint. Exostosis generally occurs singly; but many may form, when they are usually symmetrical. This is particularly observed in the cancellous variety. A third variety of exostosis is recognized by some pathologists. It is attached to bone, although not as an out-growth, but proceeds from the ossification of tendons, f ascice, or muscles, and is consequent on chronic inflammation, induced perhaps by injury. Appearing in the form of long, spinous processes of bone, these exostoses may be found in con- siderable number, and connected with any one or more of the long