355 iHYSTERIA. cliaracter of plaiutiif, so far from being a cripijlc for life, lie was on his way to the park, to play in a cricket match ! And I believe that not a few of these railway cases get well, after the trial is over. On the other hand, there are cases of irreparable injury, with paralysis more often than any other result. The causes of Hysteria are mainly social and hygienic. As a disorder of the nervoiis system, its leading features are an undu.e general sensibility, Avith the loss or impairment of the controlling power of the will, and a corresponding exaltation of the involuntary excito-motory functions. With this disarrangement of the physiology of the nervous system, there is generally associated a feeble and suscep- tible circulation of the blood. Such persons chill and flush readily. Probably, therefore, the nerve-centres are subject to an irregular supply of blood; sometimes being in a state of hypersemia, at other times ana3mic. In conjunction with this twofold condition of the nervous and vascular systems, the digestion or primary assimilation of food is often imperfect, and it may be presumed that secondary assimilation or nutrition is also perverted. In some cases, there is a marked tendency to gout; in others, to scrofula. Now, this constitutional condition—representing what might be termed the hysteric diathesis— may either be congenital and hereditary, or acquired under the cir- cumstances peculiar to the individual. Commonly, Hysteria is en- gendered by a vicious social training in youth, and by a similar existence in after years. No one was more entitled to write with authority respecting this social product than Sir B. Brodie, and he has recorded his convictions from an unusually large and varied experience. "You can render," said he, "no more essential service to the affluent classes of society than by availing yourself of every opportunity of explaining to those among them who are parents how much the ordinary system of education tends to engender the disposi- tion to nervous affections among their female children. The boys ai'e sent at an early age to school, where a large portion of their time is passed in taking exercise in the open air; while their sisters are confined to heated rooms, taking little exercise out of doors, and often none at all, except in a carriage. Then, for the most part, the latter spend much more time in actual study than the former. The mind is over-educated at the expense of the body, and, after all, with little advantage to the mind itself; for who can doubt that the principal object of this part of education should be, not so much to fill the mind with knowledge, as to train it to a right exercise of its intellectual and moral faculties ; or that, other things being the same, this is more easily accomplished in those whose animal functions are preserved^ in an healthy state, than it is in others ? This liability to Hysteria is, in fact, among females, one of the several penalties of high civilization. It is among those who enjoy what are sujjposed to be the advantages of affluence and an easy life that we are to look for cases of this description ; not among those who, fulfilling the edict of the Deity, ' eat their bread in the sweat of their face.'" To this general description, however, must be added exceptional instances of Hystena among the poor, and labouring classes. I have seen the disease fully developed in a country girl, sent up to the Royal Free Hospital, for the euro of an apparent chronic synovitis of the knee- jomt, which was nothing but an hysteric affection. Thus, we may,