INFLAMMATION. 123 tinctive, being either free coagulable lympli or pus. Chronic inflamma- tion results chiefly in pus-formation, or in contractile lymph-deposit; while in subacute inflammation, the products are often of intermediate nature, as purulent lymph or curdy matter. Treatment.—Acute inflammation demands also the prompt use of antiphlogistic measures, regulated, however, by the more or less sthenic character of the symptoms. The subacute variety, marked by less febrile symptoms, but of longer duration, in a continuous or recurring form, suggests a moderation of such treatment, and its renewal from time to time as occasion may indicate. Mercurials with opium are often the most efiicient remedies. Chronic inflammation rarely admits of any reducing measures, but needs a stimulant and tonic plan of treatment, with mild mercurials, sustained by a nourishing diet; this course being prolonged for probably a considerable period. The local treatment, equally tedious, must be directed to the removal of the inflammatory products, by blistering, iodine, stimulating embrocations, pressure, and other applications to promote absorption. Chronic abscess should be treated as explained in noticing the local conse- quences of inflammation, generally. Phlegmonous inflammation is illustrated in the phlegmon or com- mon boil of the skin. Its chief feature consists in its being abruptly circumscribed by an effusion of solid lymph, which brings the inflam- mation to a termination, either by suppuration, or by slow subsidence, as in blind boils. A highly fibrinous condition of the blood contributes to render inflammation phlegmonous, but this form of inflammation is commonly exhibited by cellular and parenchymatous textures. The type of phlegmonous inflammation is usually sthenic ; and even when it advances to suppuration or sloughing, it defends the system against the noxious influence of the pus and dead matter. Hence, the fever is inflammatory, and the local pain, irritation, and heat are considerable. Treatment usually should be similar to that which is appropi'iate for inflammation of the sthenic type ; though the febrile disturbance may be asthenic, as is often the case in boils and phlegmonous erysipelas. But the tension of the part affected always demands relief by early and free incisions. Congestive inflammation is that in which the accumulation of the blood in the vessels of the affected part, and retardation of its move- ment, predominate over the determination of blood. Hence it is com- monly asthenic, and generally originates from causes that produce congestion, the reaction which converts this into inflammation being imperfect or partial. Its symptoms are less prominent than those of more active inflammation, and partake more of the character of con- gestion. There may be little pain, heat, or fever; but the redness, where visible, is more marked and deeper than usual, and if the affected organ be very vascular, as the liver, lungs, and kidneys, the swelling may be considerable. Congestive inflammation is usually subacute or chronic, not tending to speedy results ; but a kind of flux or dropsy may occur early, as happens from congestion. The solid effusion ensuing is generally cacoplastic; thence the consolidations or indurations resulting, are often of a dense indolent kind, tending to contract or to degenerate still further into aplastic matter. Inflamma- tion of the lung supervening on disease of the heart, on bronchitis, and