SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 374 Fig. 88. if organization of lymph within the artery, which thus becomes impervious and obliterated. Lost, however, for ever as a blood-conveying tube, hsamorrhage of perhaps fatal character is ai-rested. Nature is still victorious. The size of the vessel will somewhat afEect the issue, which is otherwise in favour of a longitudinal incision. An artery like the temporal, with a longitudinal slit, heals without obliteration. An artery of larger calibre, and similarly wounded, becomes impervious and ob- literated. And the ultimate success of Nature's effort is apt to be marred, even when the wounded vessel remains pervious; for the internal and middle coats not adhering firmly, this defect predisposes to aneurism. (2.) Comiylete division of an artery by incision is healed by a modi- fication of the same process—clot-formation, but not as a compress, being the temporary provision, and lymph-effusion permanently plugging up the vessel. Immediately after its division the artery retracts by its elasticity—longitudinally into its sheath, which thus projects loosely; and the mouth of the vessel contracts, even to a pinhole open- ing, owing to its muscular contractility —circularly. The retracted portion thus contracted has a conical shape, like that of a Florence oil-flask or French claret- bottle. (Fig. 88.) Contractility may be sufficient to close the vessel and prevent further hemorrhage. In this way small arterial branches spontaneously cease to bleed in an open wound exposed to the air, or the action of cold water; but the artery having retracted, coagulation is induced within the loosely projecting filamentous sheath, which entangles the blood as it flows; and this event may be aided by cessation of the stream, owing to failure of the heart's action —cardiac syncope—another resource of Nature for the temporary arrest of haemorrhage. Coagulation pro- ceeds concentrically. The clot, at first pervious and transnaitting a small central stream of blood, soon forms a solid mass, which, still enlarging, passes up the bore of the artery for a short distance in the shape of a small cone. This portion—internal coagulum or houchon—and that in the sheath—external coagulum or couvercle—together form a clot, in shape like a glass stopper fitted into a decanter, to which the wholo is compared by Professor Gross. The shape of Nature's product is not quite so finished off, for a small poi-tion of the clot is insinuated between the sheath and artery beyond the point of retraction, thereby compressing the arterial aperture, while a still larger portion of an irregular shape projects beyond the aperture of the sheath. The whole clot is however, continuous, and with these little offsets still bears the resemblance suggested. (Fig. 88.) The permanent closure of the vessel is effected by the effusion of plastic lymph. Like coagulated fibrin, its organization consists, essentially, of fibrils; but those of plastic lymph result from the elongation and attenuation of cells into fibres, in various stages of development. Corresponding m situation to the clot, i.e., at the aperture, around it slightly, and extending into i