SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 476 Fig. 119. sac. Various sucli agents have been tried. The least hazardous, and the most efficacious, appears to be a weak solution of perchloride of iron, used in small quantity. A solution of 20° Beaume, is the highest degree of strength recommended by Valette; and tvventy drops only to every 100th of a pint of the blood in the sac is the quantity permitted by Broca. The safest instrument for injecting is a small glass syringe, furnished with a screw-piston, and a fine-pointed nozzle— the hypodermic syringe. This instrument may be gradu- H ated, so as thus to regulate the quantity of fluid injected by means of a sliding piston; but a screw-acting piston / \ answers the purpose more exactly, one turn of the screw corresponding to a minim of the solution. Before intro- ducing it, the circulation through the artery should be suspended by compressing the vessel carefully on either side of the aneurism. Then the point should be thrust perpendicularly into the aneurism, until a drop or two of arterial blood escaping, shows that it has penetrated. The instrument may be directed to different points within the sac, and a drop or two deposited successfully, forming as many centres of coagulation. On -ndthdrawing the instru- ment, a turn of the piston, backwards, will prevent any of the solution escaping under the integument. Taking all these precautious, as to strength and quantity of the solution, and its injection into the sac alone, coagulation may proceed to consolidation and cure. But the process may stop short of this issue; or inflam- mation be excited in the sac, which, owing to the highly irritating character of the solution, will probably result in suppura- tion and sloughing, with fatal haemorrhage, or by extending to the surrounding integuments, may end in gangrene of the limb. Thus, then, the probable consequences of this treatment restrict its eligibility; while the kind of coagulation induced, e?i masse, disqualifies it propor- tionately, for the cure of aneurism. Then, again, the requisite com- pression of the artery on the cardiac and distal side limits the appli- cability of injection to aneiirism in certain situations only. Internal aneurisms are excluded; and external aneurisms — those of the extremities—are open to far preferable methods of treatment—com- pression or ligature. Injection seems to have been practised indiscriminately, or at least without regard to the situation of the aneurism. Originally suggested by Monteggia, injection was tried, with different coagulating agents, by Yilardebo, Wardrop, Leroy d'Etiolles, Pravaz, and Petrequin. Aneurisms in every part of the body have been subjected to this treat- ment ; those of the innominate artery by Barrier; of the subclavian by Petrequin ; of the carotid by Dufour; and of the popliteal artery by Wiepce, Minor, Isaacs, and Lenoir. Aneurism of all-sized arteries has been injected, from that of the supra-orbital artery, by Raoult and Deslongchamps, to the aorta itself, by Syme. The sum total at present exceeds thirty cases. But their results have not been sufiiciently analyzed to draw any numerical conclusion for, or against, this kind of treatment. Injection succeeds in so far as it induces coagulation, rather than excites inflammation and its consequences. Such ahso is the favourable modus operandi of galvano-puucture.