SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 814 described. These cartilaginous bodies form most frequently as the result of chronic rheumatic synovitis; and more often in adults than at an earlier period of life. Billroth's observations point to the liga- mentous capsule as the most frequent source of these ossifying cartilages, which may enter the joint, and become free. Rarely, they form in the synovial tufts. Other modes of origin seem probable in some cases. Thus, the fibrinous concretions may, perhaps, represent exudations, or precipitations from the synovia. Portions of bone becorning detached from the articular surfaces, or resulting from ossific deposit, give rise to similar symptoms. .Symptoms.—It will be readily supposed that any such foreign body getting nipped in between the articular surfaces, must occasion some remarkable symptoms. Hence, an attached cartilaginous body may remain quiescent; a detached, or entirely loose cartilage, moving about in the synovial capsule, is more apt to slip in between the bones. Up to this time the patient may have experienced occasional twinges, as if of rheumatic character; but now a sudden, intense, and sickening pain seizes him; and the joint becoming instantly locked, the hitching or fixed inability to move the limb may throw him to the ground in the act of progression. Sudden dislodgment of the intervening cartilage is equally apt to occur, whereby the joint is immediately restored to its original state of painless mobility; leaving only perhaps a little temporary effusion. These symptoms having recurred at intervals, on the slightest movement, and sometimes during sleep, the sufferer seeks relief. On careful examination, a foreign body can usually be found, and by palpation brought perhaps to a stand-still at the edge of the patella—in the knee-joint, and there made to bulge under the skin; or the patient can, perhaps, himself make the movable body perceptible, by a jerking movement of the joint; but the little smooth cartilage easily slips away from under the finger, and again disappears. Ultimately, the joint itself sometimes become diseased; prolonged irritation inducing synovitis, with relaxation of the ligaments, which are loosened also by having been stretched by the repeated interposition of the cartilage between the articular surfaces. Treatment.—Recurrence of the attacks of pain may be prevented by limiting the motions of the joint; thus fixing the loose cartilage tempo- rarily, or perchance permanently. Hence, an elastic bandage or knee- cap should be constantly woi^n. Often the relief afforded is such that no further interference becomes requisite. Removal of the foreign body is the only other resource; but this should never be lightly entertained, considering the risk to the joint and even to life, contingent on the operation of extraction. It is justifiable only when the cartilaginous body is loose, and freely movable, of some size, and apparently single. Taking a favourable opportunity—after tlie pain and irritation of an attack have subsided—this operation may be performed, in either of three ways. It is more difficult than would appear to one who has not done it. The cartilage must first be care- fully fixed, in a steady spot, with the forefinger and thumb. In the knee, it may be made to project on one side of the patella. The skin is then to be drawn to one side, and an incision made directh/ down upon the cartilage, which is thence allowed to escape. On relaxing the skin, the valvular aperture is at once closed with a strip of plaster, and the limb should be kept at rest until any symptoms of synovitis have sub-