SPECIAL PATHOLOQY AND SURGERY. 396 ^ Accidental complications—both local and constitutional—may occur m the course of a contused or lacerated wound. Scconda/ry hasmor- rhage is apt to happen when the sloughs or gangrenous portion separate ; and when, occasionally, a large-sized artery is thus laid open, m about a week or ten days, or from the suppuration of a thrombus or fibrinous plug, at a later period, the loss of blood may be of serious consequence. Bleeding granulations sometimes prove troublesome. Progressive sui^puration may take place from a contused or lacerated wound; the pus undermining the integument, extending along the sheaths of tendons, and burrowing deeply between the muscles. The part becomes swollen and sodden, and the granulations pale and oedematous; the pus also has a sanious, foetid character, and is exuded through fistulous openings. This state of the part is more often met with when the hand or foot,, or a large joint, was the starting-point of the suppuration, in a lacerated wound of either such part. The con- stitutional condition is no longer that of traumatic febrile disturbance, as in connection with the original wound, nor of the typhoidal character with gangrene, nor the collapse from secondary haemorrhage; but hectic emaciation ensues, and exhaustion. Various secondary inflammations' may proceed from a contused or lacerated wound. Lymphatitis, phlebitis, erysipelatous inflammation, and sometimes hospital gangrene, thus arising, offer no special pecu- liarities of practical importance. IchorrhaBmia or- pysemic infection may also be noticed as occasional consequences. The Prognosis of Contused and Lacerated Wounds maybe gathered, as with regard to other injuries, from a due consideration of their nature and course. It is less favourable than that of an Incised Wound, owing to the kind of structural disorganization in contusion or laceration. For gangrenous disintegration of the textures, in a greater or less degree, is inevitable; or gangrenous inflammation, with slough- ing and suppuration. The extent of the lesion will, therefore, much affect the issue. Spreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, but it is the most unfavourable consequence of contusion or laceration, as implying the co-operation of a constitutional cause. Healing by primary adhesion is exchanged for the slower and perhaps less effectual process of suppurative granulation ; yet the latter being another mode of Re- paration, it must be regarded as an eventually favourable element in the prognosis of the lesion under consideration. Treatment.—In all superficial wounds—contused or lacerated—and especially of vascular parts, as the scalp, the chance of primary adhesion taking place, to some extent, is not improbable, and it may be solicited with good prospect of success. In the first instance, therefore, the treatment should be the same as for an incised wound. Foreign bodies, such as grit or portions of clothing, having been removed by a wet sponge or stream of water, replacement of the torn textures, and their retention in position by the usual surgical appliances, are the immediate rules of treatment to be observed. The prevention of decomposition is a consideration of primary consequence, Isoth with regard to healing of the damaged textures, and to any liability of systemic infection. Ac- cordingly, an important principle of treatment consists in the exclusion of air, and the continued application of cold. This may be carried out in various ways ; by immersion of the pa rt in cold water, by irrigation, or by wrapping the part in lint, and applying an ice-bag. These pre-