THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 4 follows :—The pain may be insignificant at first, before swelling super- venes ; and the power of motion is retained in the case of impacted fracture, or where one only of two companion bones is broken, the other acting as a splint. With fracture of the radius, in the forearm ; or of the fibula, in the leg; the ulna or the tibia thus preserves some of the motions of the limb, although the special functions of either broken bone are lost. But if the functional symjoioms of pain and loss of volun- tary power attend the injuiy, they may each arise from other causes than fracture ; as from dislocation, a bruise, or an attack of rheumatism, which thus far may simulate fracture. The physical signs of Fracture, taken singly, are sometimes absent. Mobility, in the case of impacted fracture ; crepitation, if there be much displacement, or if soft tissue of any kind intervene between the fragments, or if some days have elapsed since the accident. The deformity of the limb, and the elevation or depression at the immediate seat of injury, may be wanting; as in impacted fracture, and in fracture without displacement; and these signs are less pronounced than usual, when one only of two companion bones is broken, the other resisting and supporting as a splint. Short- ening also is less marked or absent in all such cases. The most difficult case is this : a fracture of one of two companion bones in the leg or forearm, in a muscular subject, and when considerable swelling has supervened. There is no shortening, and no deformity as from fracture, no crepitation can be felt, and mobility of the broken portions is obscured by the swollen cushion of soft tissues around the seat of fracture. "Where is the surgeon," saysBoyer, "who has not hesitated sometimes to deliver an opinion in cases of this description ? " On the other hand, if the signs of Fracture be present, they may, severally, arise from other causes; with one exception,—namely, mobility in the continuity of a bone. This can arise only from fracture. Crepi- tation attends the play of the tendons in their sheaths, in connection with inflammation; although the creaking, jerking crepitation thus pro- duced, diifers from the rough grating of broken bone. The altered contour of the limb, and of the part at the seat of supposed fracture, and the shortening of the limb, might arise from various other con- ditions ; a previous fracture, interstitial absorption, or other disease of the bone, or from deformity, congenital or acquired, as rickets or mollities ossium. In the proximity of a joint, these signs may be due to dislocation ; but the presence of crepitation, and of mobility, are the turning points of the diagnosis. It appears, therefore, that no physical sign taken singly, except one—mobility—is pathognomonic of Fracture, and that any one sign may be absent; but that all these signs taken collectively, determine the diagnosis of this kind of injury. Functional symptoms, singly or com- bined, are insufficient; yet their concurrence will confirm the diagnosis. The surest ground of diagnosis is Pathological Anatomy, as directly manifesting during life the existence of morbid conditions; by the physical, the structural, and the chemical changes, which the different textures or organs, and the fluids, afiFected, have undergone. Thus, in the diagnosis of the general forms of Injury or of Disease:—the physical characters of Wounds are distinctive of these injuries, as represented by the terms incised, contused and lacerated, and punc- tured wounds ; the physical signs of Fracture are equally diagnostic, —in the altered length and shape of the limb, and the alteration at