PYiEMIA. 307 The habitual indulgence in alcoholic liquors is said to bo specially prejudicial. Hygienic circumstances chiefly include impure air from overcrowding of patients, want of cleanliness in the dressing of wounds, defective drainage, deficient ventilation, and the relative in- fluence of heat and cold on the decomposition of animal matter. Age and sex have apparently no particular relation to the liability of pyaemic or septictemic infection. (2.) Exciting Caitses, and their Ojjemiion.—Injuries and surgical operations attended with much suppuration, are well known to threaten pyemia; and they may do so, perhapis, partly by absorption of pus, and partly by suppurative inflammation of the disorganized veins. Com- pound fractures may thus occasion purulent infection ; and injuries of the head probably operate chiefly by suppurative inflammation of the veins of the diploe. Dance first suggested this explanation; Cruveil- hier gave the anatomical proof by dissection,—according to his theory. Indeed, the latter observer affirms that phlebitis of bones is one of the most frequent causes of visceral abscesses, from wounds and surgical operations implicating the bones. The mere removal of a necrosed bone is sometimes followed by pyaemia; but whenever destruction of the osseous texture, accompanied with suppuration, is followed by pyeemic infection, absorption of pus probably has been partly the cause, its absorp- tion being determined by the anatomical condition of the veins, which are kept open by the bony channels through which they pass. Amputa- tions of the limbs, of the breast, lithotomy, and the operation for fistula in ano, likewise threaten pyEemia, when suppuration is abundant. Absorption and suppurative phlebitis may co-ojoerate in these cases to infect the blood with pus. They assuredly co-operate in jjysemia following venesection. The vein is punctured, and the aperture absorbs pus, subsequently diffused around the vein; while the vein itself, having suppurated, transmits pus into the general circulation. Probably, suppurative inflammation of the lymphatics contributes to pyemia, in some cases where and when absorption of pus may have taken place. A faint blush in the course of the lymphatics frequently supervenes on the sudden cessation of a purulent discharge; forthwith pyasmic symptoms commence ; eventually the lymphatic vessels appear as red lines ramifying from the sore, becoming harder and more painful —more inflamed, in fact—as pyaemia advances. Pyasmic infection, thus read in the light of purulent absorption from suppurative phlebitis, consequent on wounds, may also be interpreted according to the other modes of pathogenesis already noticed; thrombosis, leucocytosis, septicEemia, and miasmatic infection. Prognosis.—The course of pysemic infection is generally to a fatal termination. But our prognosis will be more or less unfavourable according to the acute or chronic character of the disease. The more frequent the rigors, and more rapid the prostration, and the earlier secondary abscesses supervene, death will be more certain and speedy. When the progress of the symptoms is slower and less marked; when also the fever subsides for some days, and the wound begins to regain a healthy appearance; then, recovery is more hopeful. In septicaemia, the prognosis will be guided by similar considerations. Treatment.—Preventive measures consist in the rigorous observance of hygienic precautions, especially with regard to cleanliness in dressing wounds, freo ventilation, and the avoidance of any crowding of patients