666 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEKY. knee-joint (Fig. 275) ; in tho middle or lower part, the fracture is commonly oblique (Fig. 276), or transverse; or perhaps less frequently comminuted. These differences „_„ , Fig. 275.* are dependent on the causes of A'if>-276.t fracture, above and below. Dis- jdacement varies with the line of fracture. Angular displacement occurs with transverse fracture, \<t^'^^i the ends of bone remaining, partly at least, in contact. This dis- placement is produced by the flexor muscles of the calf drawing the bones backwards, aided by the weight of the leg, and per- haps the tilting forwards of the ends of the upper fragments by the quadriceps extensor, inserted into the tubercle of the tibia. Longitudinal displacement, with J \ the oblique fracture, is produced by the muscles of the calf drawing lower fragments backwards and upwards, as in the specimen figured. Rotatory dis- placement of the lower fragments may be occasioned by inversion or eversion of the foot. Fracture of the tibia or fibula, singly, is attended with less displacement; either bone acting as a splint to the other, and especially the massive tibia in rela- tion to the fibula. Signs.—The signs with fracture of both bones are most marked. Deformity is presented corresponding with displacement; an angular jDrojection forwards will be observed in transverse fracture, high up ; a depression on the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, in oblique fracture, lower down. Mobility and crepitus are easily produced on handling the fragments ; and the outline of the leg is seen to be altered, the shafts of the bones above and below the seat of fracture form- ing an angle; with some shortening also in oblique fracture. Pain, as in other fractures, is occasioned by any movement, and marked powerless- ness of the limb cannot be overlooked; the leg can be moved about loosely as a flail below the fracture, and lies helpless in any position in which it is placed. Fracture of the tibia or fibula, singly, is attended with the same signs, but less pronounced than in the case of both bones; the sound bone supporting the fractured bone. Fi'acture of the tihia presents the more obvious signs. On tracing down the bone, some irregularity will be discovered, and some mobility and crepitus of the fragments may be elicited. Fracture of the fibula in its upper two-thu-ds is obscured by * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 199.—Comminuted fracture of the head of the tibia, into the knee-joint. Bony union has partially taken place between the contiguous margins of the fragments, one of which is wanting. This extensive injury was produced by direct violence, in the person of a drayman, whose knee was jammed between a lamp-post and the wheel of his cart. Death ensued from suppuration and hsamorrhago. t St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 110.