105 INFLAMMATION. selected is one at the bend of the elbow,—the median basilic in particular; or the external jugular in the neck, will be preferable in exceptional cases. At the hend of the elhoiv, venesection maybe performed, with certaia precautions, as follows :—The median lasilic vein having been selected, on account of its large size, superficial situation, and fixed position by the aponeurosis between it and the brachial artery; a spot is chosen just above or below where the vein crosses upwards over that vessel. A roller bandage is drawn round the arm above the elbow, to obstruct the current of blood; in order that the vein shall be made more promi- nent by distension, and that, when opened, the stream of blood shall be free and uninterrupted. (Fig. 26.) Then, compressing the vein with the thumb of the left hand, just below where the puncture is to be made, so as to steady the vessel, the blade of the bleeding-lancet Fig. 26. being held betwixt the thumb and forefinger of the right hand, the point of the instrument is thrust into the vein, until resistance ceases or a drop of blood escapes, when, by a slight upward movement of the blade, a small oblique incision in the vessel is completed ; observing also to divide the skin somewhat more extensively, that the opening in the integument shall be larger than that in the vein. The stream of blood should be received into a vessel, shallov? or deep, according to the observations which may be desirable with reference to its co- Fig, 27. agulation and the formation of the buify coat. When the blood-stream becomes sluggish, the flow may be accelerated by desiring the patient to grasp some substance, as the lancet case, and work his fingers ; whereby the muscles of the forearm compress the deep veins, and thus produce an increased flow through the super- ficial veins. The quantity of blood to be drawn oif will be regulated by the considerations already explained. Then the stream is stopped by placing the thumb on the bleeding orifice, and removing the ligature from above the elbow. A compress of lint is slid on to the wound, and retained in position by a figure