363 INCISED WOUND. are soon producGd in abnndance, within the interstices of the con- nective tissue immediately adjoining the wound. The production o£ these cells admits of at least a twofold explanation, as in the process of Inflammation. This cell-production may be due to the emigration of pale corpuscles through the walls of the capillary blood-vessels, according to Cohnheim's observations, sti^jported by those of Strieker, Recklinghausen, and others; or, perhaps, the cells result from the proliferation of connective-tissue corpuscles in the textures under- going inflammation, as Virchow maintains. Possibly, both modes of cell-production may co-operate. The inflammatory cellular infiltration is developed into connective tissue, in the way already described; and intercellular substance is deposited, which consolidates the newly formed tissue. This interstitial substance is most probably fibrin; pro- duced, as Billroth believes, by transudation from the capillary vessels, under the influence of the wandering blood-cells. Schmidt's experi- ments point to the conclusion that a fibrogenous substance is deposited, which, by combining with the fibro-plastic substance of the blood and tissues, forms coagulated fibrin. But Thiersch maintains that this so-called iutestitial fibrin is only the connective tissue itself, in a transformed state. The external appearances which accompany, and as signs denote, this inflammatory state, are as follows :—In the course of twenty-four hours, the lips of an incised wound become red, and slightly swollen or puffed, painful or tender, and hotter than the adjoining integument; but this traumatic inflammation is restricted to the margins of the wound, in a healthy state; and reaching its height by the second or third day, the inflammatoiy reaction passes off by the fourth or fifth day, leaving the wound united at the end of a week. The cicatrix, however, appears as a red, stiffened line ; but it slowly assumes a paler tint, and softer character; and eventually it changes into a white and somewhat depressed line in the skin; although this mark remains permanently, being visible to the eye, or detected with the aid of a glass, in after years. Primary adhesion is less desirable than the immediate mode of union; the formation of lymph-cells being a process so indefinitely separated from that of pus-cells, that union thereby is much more likely to pass into suppuration than any process in which no lymph is formed ; then again, it is probably not so speedy in most cases ; and finally, if accomplished, it is not so close, a scar therefore always remaining by the organization of the new intervening substance. (3.) Siijpimrative granulation and cicatrization is that process by which all other than incised wounds are commonly healed. It will be described in connection with Contused and Lacerated Wounds. (4.) Healing under a seal ranks higher, in respect of its result, than that by suppurative granulation. Open wounds, and superficial burns, may heal in either way. The cicatrix formed under a scab more nearly resembles the natural textures, and being also less contractile, is less disfiguring. Yet the process of healing in this way is more liable to miscarry. Inflammation is apt to supervene, and discharge accumu- lating under the scab, the healing process is again and again delayed, or recommenced. No such impediment interrupts the progress of suppurative granulation, or the course of an open sore. The scab itself is formed of dried blood, lymph, or pus; but the