1 CABIES, OR ULCERATION OF BONE. 685 Fig. 302. can 136 said to recommend, and mnch. to reprobate, this principle of treatment. Unless in regard to quite superficial caries, any destructive application generally fails to arrest the disease, or actually provokes yet further caries, or destruction of bone. In a chronic state, the disease is beyond the Fig 301 po'"'^^ restoration, and reparation is unable to discharge the carious portion of bone piecemeal. Operative interference, therefore, now becomes necessary. The diseased bone may be removed by excision, either of the affected portion only, or of the -whole bone ; or amputation may be un- avoidable, owing to the extent of the disease, or after excision, as the last resource. Excision of the carious portion. This should always be a patient pi-oceeding, never a "brilliant" operation. The bone having been exposed by a crucial incision, the diseased portion must be re- moved piecemeal by means of a gouge. Various forms of this instrument are used, according to circumstances. The ordinary scoop-gouge (Fig. 301) is generally'most convenient; and Marshall's rose-head osteotrite (Fig. 302) will often prove very serviceable in finishing off a carious cavity. Care should be taken, in working with a cutting- gouge, lest the instrument suddenly slip, and be driven accidentally into the soft parts. A steady, slow movement of the hand, and grasp of the instrument almost to the point, are the best pre- cautions against any such misadventure. The carious portion of bone yields to the gouge with a gritty resistance; whereas the sound bone re- mains firm, and vascular. The extent of bone to be removed may, therefore, be determined by kt)XI these characters; portions of softened, crumb- ling bone shoxild be scooped out, until the firm, rose-coloured bleeding bone is reached. The surface or cavity, having this healthy character, is then dressed or plugged lightly with wet liut, and the wound allowed to fill up and heal by gi-anulation. In this way I have removed, more or less successfully, carious bone from nearly every bone. The whole rim of the spine of the scapula having been excised in one case, the '^^ f patient—a lady of very delicate health—re- covered slowly but soundly. In another case, I removed the whole of the middle third of the shaft of the tibia, excepting a shell of bone pos- teriorly. (Fig. 303.) Granulations, healthy and abundant, sprang up, and nearly filled up the large cavity; but the patient, by the rule of tho hospital as to time, left incompletely cured, and I do not know the result. The articular end of a bone—affected by Caries—may require ex- cision, as will be fully explained in treating of Diseases of the Joints. Fig. 303.