COMPOUND FRACTURE. 596 "be mentioned as causes o£ necrosis in compound fracture. But the necrosis will probably then be so extensive—the whole shaft of the bone perhaps perishing—that these diseased conditions have no practical relation to the union of compound fracture. The average ]}eriocl for union in compound fracture is about twice as long as in simple fracture. Thus, with regard to a long bone, and in the lower extremity, as the tibia, three or four months may elapse ere the same degree of firm ossific-union is produced. In the event of union being effected by granulation, the process is more prolonged; just as in the soft textures, this mode of healing is slower than primary adhesion; and osseous granulations are produced even more slowly than granulations in the soft textures. When the process is compli- cated by necrosis, the previous detachment of the dead portion of bone delays the union to the longest period. Ununited fracture, and false-joint, will be hereafter considered. The Prognosis of compound fracture, as gathered from a due con- sideration of the natural course and tendency of this lesion, is far less favourable than that of simple fracture. An open wound, communi- cating with the seat of fracture, as compared with subcutaneous lace- ration of the soft parts, is one unfavourable ground of prognostic distinction. Scarcely less so is the greater extent of their laceration, usually in compound fracture; especially if produced by direct violence. Consequently, the chequered histories of haemorrhage, shock, and tetanus; traumatic gangrene, inflammation, and its consequences, in suppuration and sloughing; necrosis ; erysipelas, and pyemia; have each and all to be taken into account, as being more or less prob- able contingencies in considering our prognosis of compound fracture. Spreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, yet a most unfavour- able one, as implying the co-operation of a constitutional cause. The following results of compound fracture are practically inte- resting and important for reference, as exhibiting the relative fre- qiiency of such fracture in either limb, and in different parts, their comparative mortality, and the causes of death; according to Mr. Bryant's analysis of 302 cases in Guy's Hospital, during a period of twenty years. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. xliv.) Of the whole number—302 cases— 17, or o"6 per cent., were of the thigh. 193, or 63-9 „ „ leg. 35, or 11"5 „ „ arm. 57, or 18"8 ,, „ forearm. In the tliigh, 11 of the 17 cases were fatal, or 647 per cent.; in the leg, 74 of the 193 cases were fatal, or 38'3 per cent.; in the arm, 4 of the 35 cases died, or 11'4 per cent. ; in th.e forearm, 7 of the 67 cases died, or 12-2 per cent. In the ivliole number of 302 cases, 96 were fatal, or 31*7 per cent. The causes of death were—exhaustion, gangrene, pyaemia, delirium tremens, bronchitis, tetanus, secondary hcemorrhage, internal compli- cations,^ erysipelas. As to the relative frequency of these various causes, it would appear that the two first named, exhaustion and gangrene, were the most common,—amounting respectively to 40'6 per cent., and 11-4 per cent. PyEemia amounted to 21-8 per cent., but this high mortality depended on amputation; pysemia being twice as fatal in those subjected to operation, i.e., 277 per cent., against 14-2 without