DISEASES OF CONTAGIOUS ORIGIN. CHAPTER VII. By the general term Contagion is meant the communication of Disease, either by external contact with morbid matter, perhaps of an imper- ceptible kind, or through the inhalation of such matter in the atmo- sphere by the act of breathing-in, which is sometimes distinguished as Infection. The disease produced by the former mode of contact is not necessarily constitutional, but, possibly, merely a local affection; e.g., Itch, as contrasted with secondary or constitutional Syphilis. Certain Diseases of the Blood, which come within the province of Surgery, are naturally associated, as being Contagious, or the offspring of Contagion; Syphilis, Erysipelas, Pyaemia, Hospital Gangrene, Hydrophobia, Snake-bites, Malignant Pustule, and Glanders. Of these diseases, the first four are derived from the human species, the remaining four from animals. This distinction allows a corresponding division of the whole class. Syphilis. Syphilis is essentially a blood-disease, produced by the introduction of specific virus or poison into the general circulation. Its introduction, by local contact or by inoculation, is attended with certain tolerably definite manifestations in the skin or mucous membrane of the part, and in the proximate lymphatic glands, in the form of chancre and bubo, respectively,—constituting primary or local syphilis; while the consequent blood-disease is manifested by certain tolerably definite inflammatory modifications of nutrition in the skin, mucous mem- branes, eyes, testicle, periosteum, bones, and other parts,—constituting secondary or constitutional syphilis. But the term Syphilis is also under- stood to signify an entirely constitutional disease; the term Chancre being restricted to the primary lesion or ulcer at the point of inocula- tion of the virus, which, followed by lymphatic absorption, in the form of bubo, gives rise to systemic infection or Syphilis. The so-called Chancroid, or simply Local Gontagioiis Ulcer, would thus be distin- guished from Chancre, by the absence of systemic infection. Gonorrhoea has long been recognised as an entirely distinct disease, arising from the contagion of another species of virus, which produces an inflamma- tory discharge from the urethral mucous membrane, of a contagious character, but which does not infect the system. These three diseases. Syphilis, Local Contagious Ulcer, and Gonorrhoea, alike arising from impure sexual intercourse, are included under the common term— Venereal Disease.