DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDEE-JOINT. 789 considerable extent, and generally the tendon of the subscapular muscle, near its insertion into the small tuberosity. The muscles attached to the great tuberosity are stretched or torn, particularly the supra- spinatus; and, possibly, the tuberosity itself may be detached. The axillary vessels and plexus of nerves suffer compression by the head of the bone. (2.) Dislocation forwards, and suhclavicular;—the head of the humerus lies under the pectoral muscles, on the inner side of the coracoid process, just below the clavicle (Fig. 344), and resting on the second and third ribs. The capsule may be completely separated from the neck of the bone; the lower scapular muscles much torn, namely, subscapularis detached from the smaller tuberosity, infra- spinatus and teres minor from the great tuberosity; and, possibly, Fig. 344.* Fig. 345.t this prominence of bone may itself be torn away from the head of the humerus. ^ The axillary vessels and nerves suffer compression. (3.) Dislocation hachwards, or subspinous; the head of the humerus lies just behind the glenoid cavity on the dorsum of the scapula, below its spine (Pig. 345), and between the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles. The capsule is ruptured, and the muscles in front of the jomt are stretched or torn; namely, the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, and long head of the biceps. Partial dislocation upwards produces structural alterations, but * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1,107. Dislocation of the head of the humerus upwards and forwards, with fracture of the coracoid process. The head of the humerus—as primarily displaced—rested on the anterior margin of the clavicle, just external to the junction of the pectoralis major and deltoid muscles, quite above the level of the glenoid cavity. In the figure, as from the preparation, it has fallen to the same level as that cavity. Owing to the fracture of the coracoid process, on which the head of the humerus also partly rested, erosion of the articu- lar cartilage has taken place, producing crepitus, when the head of the bone was rotated against it. The stump of this process appears behind the humerus in the figure. Its tip, not shown, was slightly separated by the tendons inserted into it, but the ligamentous fibres attached to the coracoid process opposed further dis- placement. The long tendon of the biceps was not ruptured. The injury was caused by a fall on the elbow, from a height of about thirty feet; and the patient, a rnan aged 49 years lived for a fortnight. For any further particulars, see " Med Chir. Trans.,' vol. xli. ' t St. Mary's Hospital Museum, A. a. 8. A very rare specimen.