SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 582 delirium; which, may be succeeded by tetanus. But these extreme consequciaces are uncommon; and usually the immediate shock of injury passes off, when the fracture is reduced. Reparation.—Fracture is disposed to unite by a modification of the process of primary adhesion, namely, by osseous consolidation of the bond of union, unaccompanied by inflammation, as follows:—Inflam- matory lymph, in small quantity, is first exuded round about the seat of fracture, rendering the cellular texture more succulent, and thus producing a swelling, which, however, is partly or principally due to the blood extravasated by the injury. This mix^d swelling gradually subsides ; the exudation of lymph not continuing later, in most cases, than the second or third day. A period of inactivity—"brooding time"—succeeds, of uncertain duration, but which, in the adult, is rarely less than one week or more than two. Then the proper reparative Fig. 189. Fig. 190. or osaif ving lymph begins to flow. A layer of this lymph is deposited between the fractured ends of bone, which, undergoing development into fibro-cellular tissue, or perchance into cartilage, and thence, in either case, into bone, restores the continuity of the fragments; forming an intermediately connecting layer of bone—an " intermediated callus." This is the only callus, whether the fragments be in even apposition (Fig. 189) or overlap (Fig. 190). The full sufficiency of an intermediate callus is beautifully illustrated in both the specimen* figured ; oblique fractures of the humerus—the one a fracture through the great tuberosity and part of the shaft (Museum Roy. Free Hosp.) r the other, a double fracture through the shaft (Sir A. Cooper). Neither an "external" nor an "internal" callus, therefore, is pro- duced in the human subject, as was formerly supposed, excepting when the fractured limb or part is subjected to unusual motion during the- process of repair, or when the original bone is diseased. Then, indeed^