828 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. died of watci' on the brain. Five years ago, this child fell down a long flight of stairs. Four months subsequently, she limped from side to side, in walking, like the motion of a milk-girl in carrying her pails. Shortly afterwards, she had intermittent fever, which lasted about two months. She met with a second fall down a flight of ten steps, and afterwards the limping gait became more marked. Then, the right gluteal region was observed, by her mother, to be larger than on the left side. For two years she continued to walk on crutches. During this period, some slight curvature of the spine had taken place, in the loins, and a spine-support was put on by a Surgeon at the Orthopaedic Hospital, in Oxford Street. A swelling presented near the vagina, on the right side, and that in the gluteal region remained. In April, 18GG, she was admitted to the Royal Free Hospital. The symptoms were those of the disease in an advanced stage ; abscess occupied the whole of the buttock, and pointed near the vagina, being therefore both extra- pelvic and intra-pelvic. Shortening of the limb, to a slight extent, had occurred, above the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The Course of this disease, as already indicated, is most unfavour- able ; and thence the prognosis is equally so. Continuing for months or years, the termination is nearly always fatal. In Sir B. Brodie's case, however, although shortening had taken place, recovery ensued. Treatment.—The same treatment, local and constitutional, as for disease of the hip-joint, represents the little that can be done in disease of the sacro-iliac articulation. Removal of the diseased articular surfaces, by excision, is, of course, out of the question. CHAPTER XXXVIII. DEFORMITIES. This large branch of Surgery forms the subject of several special Treatises. An abstract only—so far as the present discordant opinions respecting much of the pathology and treatment of Deformities will fillow—can be given here: sufficient for the requirements of the general Student, and for reference, in accordance with the design of this work. Deformities may be arranged in two general classes :—1, Acquired Deformities ; 2, Congenital Deformities or Malformations. Class 1 embraces those deformities pertaining, in origin or result, to :— / (1.) The Integuments—Burn-cicatrices. (2.) Bones—Fracture-union deformity. Rachitis, and MoUities Ossium. (3.) Joints—Dislocations unreduced. Diseases of joints with Anchylosis, and Malposition of the Limb. (4.) Musculo-Nervous System. Spinal Curvature—Lateral. Deformities of Face and Neck—Wry-neck—Squint. Deformities of Arm and Hand—Contractions. Deformities of Log and Foot—Relaxations and Contractions— Knock-knee—Bow-lcg—Club-foot.