448 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. strapping, is both stimulating and supporting to the part affected. In the event of suppuration, incisions in the course of the tendons, and poulticing, will be necessary; when the sheaths may heal, with out- cropping granulations, leaving a stiffened hand or foot. But necrosis may yet compel the Surgeon to extract the dead bone, or to amputate the part. (2.) Ganglion.—This is a simple or barren cyst or sac, attached to, but communicating with, the sheath of a tendon. It contains a firm, transparent, whitish gelatinous matter, resembling the vitreous humour of the eye. The cyst varies in size and shape, from a pea to a filbert; and presents a corresponding tumour, smooth, elastic, movable, and subcutaneous; situated usually on the back of the wrist, occasionally on the dorsum of the foot, as in a case which came under my notice. This little tumour is itself painless, even when pressed firmly under the thumb, although the patient experiences a sense of weakness in the joint. Chronic ganglion does not so much increase in size, as the cyst attains considerable thickness and resistance. Arising from a sprain, or as it were spontaneously—unHke a subcutaneous bursa which pro- ceeds from pressure—-ganglion is usually of slow growth, but, some- times makes its appearance quite suddenly. Compound Ganglion is described by Erichsen, as a dilatation of the sheaths of the tendons; often attaining a very considerable size, and usually becoming irregular in shape, several tendons being implicated in it. The sheath becomes thickened as well as dilated, and highly vascular, being lined with a red, fringed, and velvety membrane; the contained fluid is clear and yellowish, but usually thinner than in simple ganglion; or the fluid may be dark and bloody, containing masses of buff-coloured fibrin or a lai'ge number of granular bodies, like those met in enlarged bursae. " These bodies are composed of perfectly developed granulations, in which the remains of blood-vessels are visible, probably thrown off from the inner wall of the vascular sheath." Compound ganglion is chiefly met with in the palm of the hand, and on the dorsum, sole, or inner side of the foot. This form of the disease is extremely clironic, may acquire an almost malignant appearance, and occupy a very extensive surface; in one case, the dorsum and greater part of the inner side of the foot were involved. Simple ganglion, however, in this situation is larger, flatter, and less movable than on the back of the wrist. Treatment.-^Simple ganglion is usually amenable to remedial mea- sures. In its ordinary situation, on the back of the wrist, a ganglion may be dispersed by squeezing it with the thumbs, or by a blow with the back of a book; the sac bursting and evacuating its contents under the skin. A chronic ganglion, having a thickened sac, may require considerable pressure before it yields, and the sac remaining may still give the appearance of a ganglion; deceiving both the operator and the patient, unless the sensation of bursting be noticed during the application of pressure. Often the cyst refills, and it will be necessary to continue pressure by means of a compress and roller, firmly applied. Occasionally also, other measures, as for an enlarged bursa, become requisite; puncture and pressure, a seton, or extirpation by dissection. Compoiind ganglion—distension of the sheaths of tendons—is a far more obstinate disease; especially when forming in its usual situation,