334 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. being drawn up, a peculiar expression is presented, the " tetanic grin "— rism sardonicus. Deglutition is accomplished with great difficulty, and fluids are convulsively ejected when any attempt is made to swallow them. In this particular, tetanus resembles hydrophobia. Even the sight of fluids may occasion dread,—another point of resemblance. Yet in no other respect is there any similarity between these diseases. 'No foaming at the mouth of a thick mucus, Avith constant movement of the jaw to extricate it, is ever witnessed, as in hydrophobia. Other peculiarities supervene. Pain strikes through the body from the ensiform cartilage backwards to the spine, and being accompanied with intense spasm of the diaphragm, occasions agonizing dyspnoea, which has been compared to that of hydrophobia. Yery soon the muscles of the back contract, and with such violence that the body is drawn into the form of an arch resting on the head and buttocks (opisthotonos) ; or the abdominal muscles contracting, become as hard as a table, and draw the body forward (emprosthotonos). During these spasms, the rectus muscle has been torn with the violence of its contractions. The body is sometimes bent to one side (pleurosthotonos); but I have never yet seen this distortion. Next in order, the muscles of the lower extremities are involved ; and lastly, those of the upper, excepting the fingers, which generally remain moyable to the last. The tongue also is rarely affected, although it may be thrust violently against the teeth and be much lacerated. Such is the ordinary course of events in Tetanus. They constitute one continued manifestation of spinal excito-motion, without suspension of the cerebral functions ; but, as would be expected, the tetanic spasms —violent and continuous—provoke general disturbance of the organic functions. Thus, the respiration being much embarrassed, the heart beats more quickly and forcibly, giving to the pulse similar characters; but they are eventually succeeded by feebleness and irregularity. The temperature often rises, and in a marked degree as death approaches ; but there is no true inflammatory fever, from first to last. The urine is perhaps scanty and high-coloured, and is sometimes retained or voided in small quantities, while the skin pours forth abundantly a sour-smelling sweat. Lastly, obstinate constipation is a constant and significant symptom throughout this disease; and should an evacuation occur, it is singularly offensive. "I remember," says Abernethy, " on one occasion, asking an old nurse what sort of evacuations had come from a tetanic patient, who for a week had no. relief from the bowels. 'Lord, sir,' she replied, 'they are not stools, they are sloughs.'" The diagnosis of tetanus is not always clear. I have already noticed how it differs from hydrophobia, epilepsy, apoplexy, and hysteria. But it may resemble the latter disease. Hysteria with spasm—Hysteri- cal tetanus—occurs sometimes in females, and presents a wonderful likeness. No fatal case is recorded. According to Dr. Copland, in females, trismus or subacute tetanus may assume an hysterical cha- racter, or hysterical symptoms may be associated with the tetanic, the disease being really tetanus and occasioned by any injury. Certain drugs produce spasms, resembling those of tetanus. Strychnia is thus specially deceptive. But the tetanic spasms induced by strychnia are remittent or iatermittent, and subside entirely as the poisonous influence passes off, or kill in the first onset if the dose or doses le