297 PY/TLMIA. skin and subcellulav texture may Have subsided into suppurative for- mations of matter in various parts of the body; or gangrenous patches are not uncommon. Death takes place generally within a week; although the attack may be prolonged for ten days, or even three weeks. Sometimes pus-forming pleurisy or peritonitis complicates the disease, and may hasten the inevitable issue. The low vitality of the new-born infant would not seem to be a secondary cause of death; for, at a somewhat later period—;after only the first month of extra-uterine life—erysipelas is not more perilous than in adults. ' And while, in the one case, no treatment avails; in the other, under the resources of supporting measures, the blood-disease may run its course to recovery. CHAPTER IX. PTiEMIA—ICHOREHiEMlA. OR SEPTICAEMIA. The term Pyaamia literally signifies pus in the Blood (ttuov, pus, aT/xa, blood) ; a purulent infection of the blood, and arising, as originally observed, from the local disease known as suppurative phlebitis or in- flammation of the veins; that this infection is, generally, soon followed by the formation of secondary abscesses, or at least by deposits of matter, secondary to the primary disease, and which are distributed in various remote organs and parts of the body. But Pygemia has more' recently acquired a far more comprehensive, or a new, patho- logical signification, as representing also, or instead of purulent infection, three other blood-conditions:—(1) leiicocytosis, or an increased production of the colourless corpuscles of the blood, which are struc- turally nearly identical with pus-corpuscles, but which proceed from irritation of the lymphatic vessels and glands; (2) fibrinous infection, more commonly, as arising from the disintegration of fibrinous coagula, or thrombi, which had formed within the veins, or arteries, and that the circulation of such matter being arrested in the capillary vessels— a condition known as embolism of these vessels—the fibrinous embolia form metastatic deposits; and (3) the blood infection which arises from the absorption of decomposing animal matter or septic matter, and thence named ichorrhcemia or sepUccei^cc. Several kinds of systemic infection, allied or different in their nature, may, therefore, be associated under the generic name of Pyaemia; but, with this understanding, that title may still be retained, subject to whatever differences may have to be mentioned in connection with Septicfemia. Pyaemia.—Symi^toms.—A wound suddenly ceases to secrete and dis- charge pus, becoming drier and glazed, or slotighy; the patient is seized with a concussive rigor or shivering, more or less violent, and lasting for a few moments only, or for some minutes,;M;his is accom- panied usually with a sensation of cold, and always with great prostra- tion; the face looks haggard, vacant, and alarmed, as if the person were conscious of some vital injury, the nervo-muscular system re- sponding with a prolonged shudder. Rapid sighing sometimes