760 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Passing the ring of the key over the thumb, and hitching it against the projecting end of bone, extension and pressure can thus be brought to bear with advantage and simultaneously. Levis's extension-instru- ment (Fig. 370) enables the Surgeon to apply flexion or leverage also, in any direction. The Indian "puzzle," a cone formed of plaited ash-splittings, had long been used as an instrument of torture for the; traction of a thumb or finger, but it was first employed by Hamilton Pig. 370. to make extension in the reduction of dislocation. The thumb, for example, being introduced into the open end of this cone, on drawincr the opposite end, the greater the traction the tighter the hold becomes: yet the pressure is so equable and diffused over the whole surface, as to occasion little pain and no strangulation. When the traction is dis- continued, the cone immediately loosens and relaxes its grasp. Before applying any extending force, reduction may be facilitated by soaking the thumb for some time in warm water, in order to relax the parts as much as possible ; a very useful recommendation given by Sir A. Cooper. Suhmdaneoiis section of the opposing ligaments or tendons should be resorted to as the last resource. Originally projiosed by Sir Charles Bell, it was employed successfully by Mr. Listen in a case of recent dislocation,-—not an hour having elapsed, the patient an old man and very drunk; no resistance, apparently, to reductioa existed, and very powerful force had been applied and persevered in without avail. At last, the external lateral ligament was divided by the point of a very narrow and fine bistoury; and then replacement became immediate and easy. Some inflammation followed, but was kept within bounds, and the man regained the use of the articulation. This method has since been practised successfully by Syme and Lizars, and by Reinhardt, also by Gibson, Parker, and other American Surgeons. Dislocations of the Middle and Ungual Phalangeal Bones occur even less frequently than dislocations of the first Fig. 371.* row. Their pathology, signs (Fig. 371), and treatment are similar. Compound Dislocations of the Bones of the Hand.—Those of the thumb are most common, as they are also the most serious and important with regard to the future use of the hand. But any such dislocation is usually connected with fracture, and extensive laceration of the palm. The causes of these injuries are always some occasion of extreme •violence. The explosion of a flask of powder in the hand happens now and then, driving one or more of the bones backward, and othermso shattering the hand. I have had to deal with two such accidents. Treatment.—Eeduction can usually be effected without difficulty; tlio * St. ThoraaB'.'? TTosp. Mns., B. 20. Dislocation forwards of the second phalanx of finger, consequent on disease of tlie joint.