SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 694 carious teetli._ _ Any.form of inflammation of bone—ostitis, periostitis, or osteo-myelitis—may also induce necrosis. Constitutional causes are, however, very influential; sometimes pre- disposing to, or frequently producing, necrosis. Scrofula, syphilis, and formerly the excessive administration of mercury, represent this class of causes ; but necrosis occasionally results from typhoid fever, scurvy, and other exhausting diseases. Consequences.—Contimoecl suppuration accompanies necrosis, and in proportion to its extent. The matter burrows among surrounding muscles, and disorganizes the whole substance of the part; while the numerous sinuses opening externally and communicating with the bone, continue to discharge an unhealthy pus. Large, protuberant gi-anulations, springing up around the orifices of these passages, evince an abortive tendency to close up the soft parts ; but reparation of the bone, by the formation of a periosteal sheath, is far more active. Albuminuria, and amyloid degeneration of the liver, are not unfrequent constitutional consequences of prolonged suppuration. Certain accidents are, however, liable to happen in the course of repair. As, in a long bone, like the femur, the ensheathing cylinder of new bone acquires strength at about an equal rate of progress to that of the disjunction from the sequestrum, the firmness of the limb will be maintained ; but if consolidation fail, then, subject to muscular action aud the weight of the limb, fracture may take place; or, the new bone under- going some alteration of shape and direction, the limb becomes deformed and shortened. But either of these events will depend veiy much on an insufiicient length of sequestrum, within the new bony sheath, to support the limb; or on the want of suflBcient support from a side bone, as the fibula in relation to the tibia, when the shaft of this bone is neci'osed. The ulcerative detachment of the dead portion of bone, sometimes extends to a large vessel, or the point of the sequestrum may be driven into an artery in some movement of the limb ; giving rise to serious Jiceniorrliage externally, or to the formation of aneurism. But these perilous consequences are rare. The new bone Tvhich substitutes a necrosed portion of bone, may itself be attacked with necrosis; in which event, any repair will be very defective. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation must be the primary consideration. Traumatic causes, which have already ex- pended their force, so to speak, in producing necrosis, are obviously not under control. But, as arising from detachment of the periosteum, exfoliation may sometimes be prevented by timely replacement of this vascular membrane ; or if adhesion takes place between the bone and adjoining soft parts, or granulations spring up from the surface of the bone, a new periosteum will be gradually formed. Constitutional causes cannot be altogether overcome, but their full effect may be prevented. Hence, the medicinal treatment appropriate for scrofula, or constitutional syphilis, proves very beneficial in most cases. Suppuration and ahscess must be treated on ordinary principles, while the accompanying hectic, or the constitutional irritation arising from the presence of dead bone, should be supported by a tonic and stimulant plan of treatment with nourishing diet. Sequestrotomy.—Extraction of the sequestrum.—The dead portion of bone is a foreign body. Unless, therefore, it be thrown off by Nature,