671 FBACTURES OP THE LEG. straight splint applied to the inner side of the leg, from the knee to the foot. (Pig. 284.) The pad should be doubled just opposite the inner malleolus, and a roller wound round the foot and splint in a figure-of-8 form, thereby drawing the foot inwards over the thick pad as a fulcrum, Fig. 284. Fig. 285.' and the roller is then continued upwards to the knee to steady the splint. Some tendency to anchylosis of the ankle-joint must be met by timely recourse to passive motion, and relapsing swelhng may require the support of a bandage for a considerable period. Compound Fractures of the Leg, and of the Anlcle-joint.—In the former situation, compound fracture of the Tibia and Fibula, or of the Tibia alone, happens more frequently than similar injury of any other bone. It was, therefore, selected as the typical form of such Injuries in describing Compound Fracture generally. (Ch. XXXI.) Its Pathology and Treatment are there considered. In relation to the anJcle-joint, compound fracture presents no differences of practical importance. The same considerations guide as to the preservation of the limb, excision, and amputation. Fractures of the Tarsal, Metatarsal Bones, and Toes.—These bones are liable to both Simple and Compound Fractures, and with the usual signs of such injuries. The Astragalus is very seldom frac- tured, -without fracture of other tarsal bones. The line of fracture may be transverse, orj longitudinal, or perhaps horizontal (Pig. 285), sometimes attended with comminution; and with, or without, impaction of the fragments. Usually, the injury is complicated with dislocation of the foot outwards, or inwards, and with fracture of the fibula. Generally also, the dislocation is compound. The signs will be some crepitation and mobility of the fragments on flexing and extending the foot, backwards and forwards; but there * St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 247. Fracture of the astragahis, separating the siiperior third from the remainder of the boue. The lower fragment is partially- dislocated. All the ligaments of the aukle-joint are torn, excepting the internal lateral, Avhich is attaclied to the periosteum, as the only connection between tho bones of the leg and tho foot. This rare fracture was caused by direct violence an omnibus wheel passing over tho foot. Amputation, and recovery ("See also "Brit. Med. Journal" (18G2), part i. p. 328.) In anotlier case, Avitli fracture of the astragalus, the foot, and therefore the os calcis, was di.slocated backwards and inwards, with some rotation. (St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 29.)