.529 LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Three tranches arise from the subclavian, in this part of its course : tthe vertebral, ascending to the head through the foramina in the trans- 1 verse processes of the cervical vertebrcs; the internal mammary, de- rscendino- to the chest; and the thyroid axis, a short thick trunk arising ifrom the front of the artery, and dividing into the inferior thyroid, the : supra-scapular, and transverse cervical branches. The first part of the left subclavian is more vertical, the internal jugular and pneumogasfcric incline inwards over the common carotid, I the recurrent branch is given ofE round the arch of the aorta; and thus 1 the artery may be somewhat more free than on the right side. (2.) Beneath the scalenus, the subclavian reaches its highest point ; above the clavicle, is transverse and curved in direction, and placed less deeply than in the first part of its course. Covered by the skin, platysma, and fascia, it has also in front of it the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior scalenus muscles ; the latter being ; attached by a flat narrow tendon to the inner border and upper surface of the first rib. (See Pig. 163.) Between the two muscles, the phrenic nerve descends obliquely inwards, lying on the scalenus. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the posterior scalenus muscle; thus passing between the scaleni. Above the artery, in this interval, are the large trunks of the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus. Below, the artery curves over the apex of the lung and pleura. The sub- clavian vein runs transversely inwards, below the level of the artery; the anterior scalenus muscle intervening between the two vessels. One branch only arises from this part of the subclavian, namely, the superior intercostal artery from its posterior aspect, which turns downwards over the neck of the first rib to supply the first two inter- costal spaces. On the left side, this branch springs, commonly, from the first portion of the subclavian; thus making four, or all the branches of this artery, to arise from that part of the vessel. (3.) Beyond the scalenus, the subclavian descends to, the loioer margin of the first rib, and is more superficial than in either of the previous portions of its course. It is situated in the lower or clavicular part of the posterior triangular space of the side of the neck; behind and partly below the middle third of the clavicle. But the depth of the artery below this bone will vary with the elevation of the shoulder, vphereby it may sink altogether below that level. It Ues in a small triangular space, bounded internally by the outer border of the sterno-mastoid concealing the anterior scalenus ; supe- riorily, by the omo-hyoid muscle passing slantingly upwards and inwards to the sterno-mastoid and then beneath it; and inferiorly, by the clavicle. (Fig. 154.) This small space is commonly not more than one inch and a half in extent, from the sterno-mastoid outwards, and about the same from above downwards along that muscle. But these dimensions will vary with the length of the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, and the clavicular attachment of the trapezius. Usually attached, respectively, to the inner and outer third of the clavicle, the muscles in some persons may nearly meet along the whole length of this bone. Then again, the height to which the omohyoid rises above the clavicle considerably affects the vertical length of the space. Its depth varies naturally with the thickness of the neck, and is altered by the position of the shoulder. This portion of the subclavian is covered only by the skin, platysma, 2 It