451 NEUKALGIA. divisions of the fifth, pair are specially liable ; and in particular the supra-orbital branch. But neuralgia may occur in perhaps any part of the body ; in the scalp, ear, nose, back of the neck, the back, chest, breasts, testicles, clitoris, abdomen, arms, ball of the thumb, legs, feet; or in the joints, especially the knee and hip. The ends of nerves in amputation-stumps are not unfrequently affected; but more often when they present bulbous enlargement, and are adherent to the cicatrix. Causes.—Constitutional conditions, mostly of an obscure character, seem to be the essential cause of all this suffering. A generally de- pressed state of the nervous system, and circulation of the blood, may be said to represent the constitutionally causative condition, usually apparent. Thus, constant exposure to wet and cold, the climatic in- fluence of damp localities, or periods of the year, depressing passions, not unfrequently induce neuralgic attacks in persons previously healthy. Certain blood-poisons are less obvious, but not less potent. The malarious poison of marshy districts is thus sometimes the source of the most severe and persistent neuralgia. Chlorosis from amenorrhoea is another such, cause. The influence of blood-conditions may be even more frequent in albuminuria; a disease in the course of which I have mtnessed neuralgic attacks of more intense agony, than in any other disease. It was a sagacious remark by Romberg, I believe, that neuralgia is "the prayer of a nerve for healthy blood." Local irrita- tion is often the immediate and exciting cause. A carious tooth, or piece of dead bone elsewhere, the accumulation of scybalous matter in the intestinal canal, or other sources of irritation, centric or eccentric, are causes of this kind. The pressux-e of a tumour in the course of a nerve, or a neuromatous tumour itself, would sometimes appear to be causes of neuralgia; but any injury to, or disease of, the nervous system is in this sense causative. Dr. Pemberton suffered for many years from excruciating pains in his face, to relieve which Sir A. Cooper severed the three divisions of the fifth nerve, on different occasions, without avail. Driven from practice, and worn out by protracted suffering, at length death brought that release which art had failed to give. A tumour was then found in the bi'ain; and thence the origin and persistency of the pain endured during life. Course and Terminations.—Neuralgia is as uncertain in its subse- quent history, as its pathology and etiology are obscure. The attacks may cease suddenly, leaving the individual in apparently good health, or soon to recover from the temporary exhaustion consequent on pain and sleeplessness. Or the sufferer at length succumbs, dying from sheer exhaustion. Treatment.—For the treatment of neuralgia, only certain general directions can here be given. The cause or causes in operation must be diligently sought for, in each case. It will be useless, however tempt- ing, to remove a merely local cause, when the constitutional condition IS still in operation. A change of residence from a damp or malarious locality may thus be necessary. Other depressing circumstances, already noticed, are less under control. Medicinal treatment may, however, do something, preventive or curative. Quinine, in large doses —two, three, five grains, or more—will sometimes ward off an attack, or cut it short. Quinine treatment, continued in smaller doses, sometimes proves curative. Preparations of iron, the sulphate in particular, are more effectual in neuralgia of malarious origin. In albuminuria