ANEURISM OF AXILLARY ARTERY. 503 Axillary Artery. Aneurfsm'.—Symptoms.—The situation of fhe pulsating tumour of Axillary Aneurism is characteristic. It rises immediately below the clavicle, under the great pectoral muscle, or under the anterior fold of the axilla, if the second, or third, portion of the artery be the seat of aneurism. Pressure on the brachial plexus occasions pain and numb- ness, extending down the arm and hand ; oedema of the upper extremity also occurs from pressure on the axillary vein. But the situation of the tumour distinguishes it from subclavian aneurism, a very important distinction as to the portion of artery eligible for ligature. Diagnosis.—0 ther tumours may be recognized by their differential characters. An abscess pulsating over the subjacent artery resembles aneurism in situation, but differs in the antecedent symptoms of in- flammation. Pulsating tumour of the head of the humerus resembles aneurism in symptoms varying only in degree, but differs in situation, for it presents on the front of the shoulder. Causes.—A blow or fall on the shoulder, violent movement, or other injury to the joint, is the mode of origin traceable in most cases. Forcible extension in the endeavour to reduce old-standing dislocations of the shoulder has furnished some instances of axillary aneurism, by rupture of the artery with the adhesions betwixt it and the bone. The traumatic origin of the aneurism renders its occurrence more frequent on the right, than the left, side; and more common in men than women. Of thirty-seven cases, three only happened in females. Course and Terminations.—Enlarging rapidly in the loose cellular texture of the axilla, the aneurism extends downwards and forwards; occupying the whole axillary' space, and thus acquiring a larger size than aneurism in most other situations. Or it may take an upward direction, elevating the shoulder, or projecting above the clavicle into the' angular space between it and the trapezius muscle. At length rupture takes place, externally, or internally into the pleura or lung. Spontaneous cure has never been known to occur. Treatment.—Compression of the subclavian, in the third part of its course, may be either impracticable, owing to elevation of the shoulder or the projection upwards of the tumour, or it will be unendurable, owing to the unavoidable compression of the brachial pleux. Ligature of the subclavian, in the third part of its course. This operation is the only resource, but its results have been most disastrous. In 48 cases of axillary aneurism, unconnected with any external wound, Hgature of the third part of the subclavian terminated fatally in 25, while 23 were cured, a nearly equal proportion, or only 1 in 2. The causes of death consequent on the operation were, in some respects, peculiar; as shown by Mr. Erichsen's analysis of results. Inflammation Within the chest in 10 cases; suppuration of the sac in 6 ; hasmorrhage in 3; suppurative phlebitis, 1 ; gangrene of hand and arm, 1; general gangrene, 1; not stated, 3. If we extend the statistics of this opera- tion to all cases, including ligature for aneurism, the results are equally discouraging. Of 69 cases, tabulated by Norris, 33, against 36, died,' about the same proportion as after the operation for aneurism. In 6 cases, more recently operated on in London, 2 only recovered. Porta's table of 74 cases is slightly more favourable than the returns of the same cases by Norris, minus the few additions. But the average