UNUNITED FRACTURE AND FALSE-JOINT. 605 early, tiglit, or prolonged bandaging, or by an immovable apjDaratus; wefc, and especially refrigerant applications; or, on the other hand, inflammation, an abscess, or nicer; paralysis, or any occasion of pres- sure on the nerves distributed to the seat of fracture; and lastly, disease of the bone itself. But the latter causative condition is not unfrequently a local manifestation of some blood-disease as a consti- tutional cause, and affecting the qualitt/ of the blood supplied to the part. The influence of hlood-diseases in preventing or retarding the forma- tion of callus, has already been noticed among the complications of Fracture. The diseases alluded to are, chiefly, rickets, syphilis, cancer, scrofula, scurvy, fever, erysipelas, and the conditions of blood conse- quent on starvation and pregnancy. But opinions are, as I have said, divided respecting the alleged mal-influence of these diseases. The same advei'se character is attributed also to habitual intemperance, copious haemorrhage, or other discharges; and, in short, whatever induces genei'al enervation of the vascular and nervous systems with failure of nutrition. One or more of such caiises may, however, exist withoLit preventing or retarding the process of osseotis union and firm consolidation. The effects of ununited fracture are entirely local and mechanical, by impairing the action of the muscles and the use of the part. The limb becomes wasted, powerless, and useless; and the more so as non- union is complete and permanent. Terminations.—Ununited Fracture frequently proceeds to a natural cure. In case (a), this takes place by ossification of the cartilaginous callus, already foi'med, which then becomes an instance merely of retarded or delayed imion. The line of distinction between arrest and delay, in the transformation of a cartilaginous into an ossific callus, is imperceptible, and therefore doubtful, in all cases. Experience shows that not until after four, six, or even eight months have elapsed, is firm union by unaided Nature eventually improbable. In case (&)—that of total non-union—the process of natural cure may supervene by the formation of a uniting medium, and its ossific consolidation. But Ununited Fracture may remain in a stationary condition ; the process of union being arrested, in either of the cases, (a) or (&). Lastly, the Fracture may become more movahle by the formation of a false- joint; incompletely (c), or completely as a diarthrodial false- joint. In estimating the probability of either of the latter issues, sta- tistical results are at least trustworthy to show the comparative infre- quency of non-union, in any form, as the final issue of Fracture. Amesbury seems to have believed in the frequency of non-union. His experience extended to 90 cases. But Walker, of Oxford, aifirms that of not less than 1000 fractures which came under his treatment at some period of the repair, he does not recollect more than 6 or 8 instances. According to Lonsdale, not more than 5 or 6 cases of false-joint, excepting those within a capsule, occurred in nearly 4000 fractures treated at the Middlesex Hospital. In a table of 367 cases, collected and arranged by Mr. W. Morland from the books of the Massachusetts Greneral Hospital, extending through a period of nine- teen years, only one instance of false-joint is recorded; and as only