488 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. J 1^00^**^°^ condition is seen in the tracings represented by Figs 128a and 128&. In this case the origin of the left subclavian was not involved' Ihese tracings afford an illustration of another indication to be obtained by the sphygmograph, namely, the amount of general arterial disease and cardiac hypertrophy; Fig. 128a is a tracing characteristic of extensive disease of the heart and aorta, an observation which was confirmed by Fia. 128.—Aneurism of Transverse Aorta, not involving Left Subclavian. (a.) Eight. Pr. S oz. (6.) Left. Pr. 1 oz. the post-mortem examination. The pulse tracings are also of value in these cases as a gauge of arterial tension, and the results of treatment, both on the general arterial tension and also on the local conditions; as consolidation takes place in the sac, the pulse previously affected loses its aneurismal characters. " Certain sources of fallacy exist, some of which it is impossible to guard against; thus aneurismal characters may be imparted to the pulse by pressure of an aneurismal sac upon an adjacent vessel; by pressure of a tumour other than aneurism upon a vessel; partial occlusion of a vessel by endarteritis or by an embolism; by vaso-motor paralysis, or irritation, relaxing or contracting the vessels on one side ; by anatomical abnomalities; lastly, by inaccuracy of observation. Most of these errors, however, would be corrected by the general physical examination, which of course the sphygmograph is only in- tended to supplement, not to replace." Causes.—Aneurisms at the foot of the neck are frequently traumatic; resulting from some violence, a blow, or strain in muscular exertion. Disease of the artery affected predisposes, how- ever, to the occurrence of such aneurism. Terminations.—These aneurisms are almost invariably fatal, although in a variable period. The probable duration will depend on the par- ticular direction the aneurism takes with relation to adjacent parts; and death occurs usually by asphyxia, occasionally by rupture and repeated hasmorrhage. As a very rai'e event, the spontaneous cure of innominate aneurism may occur, as ia the following case. (Fig. 129.) Tt will be observed that in the specimen here represented, there was a double aneurism—aortic and innominate; yet in both, the sacs