531 LIGATURE OP THE AXILLARY ARTERY. isilong its inner border, are to be drawn inwards, and guarded with, a retractor. By partially dividing the muscle with caution, from without inwards, the artery comes into view. The aneurism-needle should be passed from below upwards. Beyond the scalenus.—The shoulder being depressed as low as possible, and the skin of the neck drawn down over the clavicle, a transverse incision is made along the clavicle, extending from the border of the sterno-mastoid outwards to the trapezius muscle, and in depth down to the bone. (See Fig. 152.) The skin, platysma, and fascia are thus divided. On allowing the integuments to resume their place, the incision will rise to just above and parallel to the clavicle. If there be reason, as already explained, to suppose that the artery lies deeply, a vertical incision may be added, as in figure, along the outer border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and meeting the transverse one below at a right angle. The sterno-mastoid or trapezius approaching each other along the clavicle in some cases, either or both these muscles may be here divided sufficiently to reach the artery on the first rib. The external jugular vein should be drawn inwards, and the deep cervical fascia cautiously divided to expose the artery. The supra- scapular artery running outwards nearly nnder the clavicle, must be drawn down, and the omo-hyoid muscle upwards and outwards, thus also guarding the transverse cervical artery at about the junction of the omo-hyoid and sterno-mastoid muscles—the upper angle of the triangular space in which the subclavian lies. This vessel, fawn- coloured, will now be fairly seen; with the three white cords of the brachial plexus above, and the large, turgid, blue subclavian vein below. On passing the finger down the anterior scalenus, the tubercle on the upper surface of the rib can be felt, and thus the situation of the artery ascertained; lying, as it does, on the outer side of the tubercle. Avoiding the subclavian vein, the aneurism-needle should be insinuated between it and the artery, but care must also be taken not to include the lowest of the three nervous cords, as the point of the needle emerges on the opposite side. The depth and narrowness of the space, in some cases, may render this proceeding perplexing, and considerable difficulty may be experienced in fixing the ligature, it being perhaps impossible to reach the vessel with both forefingers. As a substitute. Listen recommended a serre noeud to be nsed—a strong wire, perforated or notched at one end. One only, or two, may be employed, or a double one, according to the judgment of the Surgeon. Of course, the effect on the pulsation below should be ascertained before tightening the ligature. A suture or two having been inserted to bring the edges of the wound together, the limb must be elevated a.nd wrapped in cotton wool to maintain the circulation, as after the ligature of any other main artery. Ligature op the Axillary Artebt.—Surgical Anatomrj. — This vessel—the continuation of the subclavian—extends from the lower border of the first rib, through the axilla, to the lower border of the conjoined tendon of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles, at its insertion into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus. (Fig. 1.55.) Curved in its direction, the convexity of the curve looks upwards as the arm lies by the side of the body ; but the artery becomes straight when the limb is raised to a right-angle with the chest. The axillary artery may be divided, for the convenience of descrip-