SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 568 swollen, tense, and hard; of a polished, pearly white colour, or mottled, cold and insensible—a marble limb, and much larger than its fellow! The general symptoms are those of inflammatory fever, very shortly subsiding into prostration; and pyeemia, as a consequence of diffuse suppurative phlebitis. Causes.—Some form of injury is, commonly, the immediate cause of phlebitis; a wound, as in operations involving the veins, phlebotomy, or the application of a ligature. But some constitutional or blood- condition probably predisposes, or may be the predominant cause, in most cases. This causative condition is apparently akin to that of erysipelas. Having regard to its etiology, phlebitis is thus also distinguished as traumatic and idiopathic. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Absorption seems to prevail in some cases; the coagulum becoming centrally pervious, and a channel thus forming, through which the venous circulation is re-established. (2.) Or, obstruction continuing, the vessel becomes impervious, and, shrivelling into a fibrous cord, is obliterated; gangrene threatens; in proportion to the degree of occlusion, its suddenness, and the size of the venous trunk. Such are the consequences of Adhesive phlebitis, more especially. Sup2^''<''>'C't'>''>^^ phlebitis often proceeds to further con- sequences, local and constitutional:—(3.) Rupture of the vein, with the formation of abscess in the surrounding cellular texture, and sloughing. (4.) Pyasmia is announced by rigors, great prostration, rapidity of pulse, with other symptoms of purulent infection; followed frequently by a fatal issue. Treatment.—Local blood-letting, by means of leeches applied along the course of the vessel, and warm fomentations may prevent adhesive plilebitis, by promoting resolution of the inflammation before fibrinous exudation and coagulation have supervened. Subsequently, alkaline salines seem to induce disintegration and absorption of materials occluding the vessel. But the administration of calomel and opium is of doubtful efiicacy. Fibrinous exudation may, indeed, be thus prevented, in some measure; but the peril of diffuse suppuration will be facilitated. Abscess arising, it must be opened forthwith; and chronic oedema may be restrained by bandaging, or removed by blisters. Stimulants are more needed, and earlier, than in Arteritis; and they are less objectionable with relation to gangrene, which is rather a tendency only of the disease, than actually resulting from venous obstruction. Pyeemia cannot be overcome by any known remedial measures. Besides the treatment by opium, wine, or brandy and egg mixture, freely administered, Pime recommends the tincture of the muriate of iron, in doses of 26 drops every four hours. Thrombus—Thrombosis or Thromballosis.—The term Thromhcs, literally signifying a blood-clot, is applied to the formation of a clot within a blood-vessel,—whether an artery or a vein ; thus giving rise to arterial thrombus (Fig. 179), as after the ligature of an artery, or to venous thrombus, as after the wound of a vein, for instance, by venesection. But venous thrombi are more common in connection with disease, and have a wider pathological significance. Venous thrombosis, or the coagulation of the blood within a vein, may certainly arise independently of inflammation of the vessels; and it may be doubtful whether phlebitis is ever attended with coagu- lation of the blood within the vessel. Virchow's observations and