SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 466 until the thirtieth day; but in this instance the tumour was of larger size. Many cases also are reported in which flexion has been success- fully used in combination with pressure; one by Mr. Pemberton, another by Mr. A. Pritchard. (2.) Ligature.—(a.) Ligature of the aneurismal artery on the cardiac side, and at soine distance from the sac, in a sound portion of artery. This is the Hunterian operation Fig. IIG. for Aneurism. (Fig. 116, middle application of a for Aneurism, figure.) The ligature to any part of an aneu- rismal artery, divides the vessel when the ligature separates; thus permanently intercepting the trans- mission of blood through the artery, itself perhaps a main trunk. This treatment, therefore, should be an ulterior resource to tem- porary compression, in any form ; obliteration of the vessel not be- coming necessary until after tem- porary compression—])receded by hygienic (and medicinal) measures, for retarding the general circula- tion—has failed. Ligature on the cardiac side of an aneurismal artery, as a surgical procedure, is another illustration of treatment in accordance with the mode of natui-al cure by retardation of the current through the aneu- rismal artery ; but it is a further concession of such assistance. I have, therefore, postponed the consideration—as in pi-actice, the application—- of compression by ligature, until after that of other handy modes, without any surgical operation, have been tried and found wanting. Then, if the heart be competent to withstand the obstruction to the circulation consequent on the operation, and no internal aneurism complicate the case,—under these favourable circumstances, obliteration of the aneurismal artery, by ligature, is a justifiable resource. There are, however, certain unfavourable, if not positively contra- indicating, circumstances with respect to this ulterior measure. Ossification of the artery at the seat of ligature would be a decidedly adverse condition. But this can scarcely be discovered prior to opera- tion. A rapidly enlarging aneurism is unfavourable, as evincing an indisposition to the deposition of laminated fibrine. Then again, a very large aneurism is unpropitious, as threatening gangrene of the limb; an event almost inevitable, if the circulation were suddenly cut off by ligaturing the artery. Inflammation of the sac will be unfavourable, by possibly proceeding to suppuration; and suppuration itself would be a positively forbidding condition, by rendering the result of ligature abortive. The Hunterian operation, first performed in December, 1785, con- sists in applying a ligature, on the cardiac side of the aneurism, to a sound portion of the artery; and therefore at some distance above the aneurism. For popliteal aneurism, the superficial femoral artery is ligatured, where this vessel is crossed by the sartorius muscle, in the middle third of the thigh. The force of the current of blood having