465 ANEUEISM. adopted by Guattani, Heister, and other Surgeons, not unsuccessfully, at length gave way to compression on the cardiac side of the artery. Diijital compression, or pressure with the fingers, may be con- veniently applied to aneurisms in situations ineligible for instrumental compression. They are chiefly those of the axillary, subclavian, and cai'otid arteries. In these situations, pressure with the fingers on the cardiac portion of the aneurismal artery, will a^d the natural process of cure by retarding the flow of blood through the sac. The requisite continuance of compression is provided fox*, by having a sufficient number of assistants; each, in turn, taking charge of the vessel before the previous one withdraws his finger, and observing to apply only that degree of pressure which controls the pulsations in the aneurism. Having maintained compression, in this way, for a few hours, the patient may be advantageously allowed a period of intermission, followed by its reapplication, and so on alternately. The total duration of these periods necessary to complete the cure, varies of course in different cases. In 19 cases successfully treated by digital pressure, the average number of hours was not more than 4il^; spread, how- ever, over a variable period, of time, owing to intermissions of the pressure. Whereas, according to the most favourable reports of those who are greatly interested in the treatment by instrumental compression, the average duration of treatment by that method was 20j days in each case. Digital compression, for the cure of aneurism, is of quite recent date as compared with instrumental compression. In 1846, Professor Vanzetti first attempted it for the cure of a popliteal aneurism, at the Hospital of Karkof, in Russia. The case was deemed unsuccessful after only two days' treatment, and forthwith a ligature was resorted to. The particulars were not published until 1858. Meanwhile, in 1848, Dr. Knight, of Newhaven, United States, for the first time, successfully employed digital compression, as the sole means of cure, in a case of popliteal aneurism, and which had resisted compression by every kind of instrument. At the end of 48 hours' pressure, thus applied to the femoral artery, the tamour in the ham had become one- third smaller, hard, and pulseless. The treatment was then discon- tinued, and four months subsequently the tumour could scarcely be felt. Encouraged by this and similar cases, digital compression has since been on its trial, and this method now bids fair to rival instru- mental compression. It is more simple, comparatively painless, a more speedy cure, equally effectual, and as permanently so. Compression by flexion is another, and even yet more simple, method of pressure; but limited in its applicability to aneurism situated in the flexure of a joint. Thus, the cure of popliteal aneurism may be effected, simply by flexing the Ipg on the thigh and securing it m that position by a bandage, previously rolled round the limb from the toes upwards to prevent congestion. The degree of flexion requisite is an acute angle in the first instance; or better, a right angle only, at first, and gradually diminished. The dui'ation of genuflexion necessary can scarcely yet be averaged. In the first successful case on record, that by Mr. Ernest Hart, the cure was considerably advanced after the first day, and complete on the fourth; on the seventh day the patient was moving about. In a case by Mr. Shaw, the cure was far more protracted, the cessation of pulsation not having been observed 2 H