879 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES. ■well upon the vessel, with each forefinger, so as not to include the point of the forceps; and then, in tightening the loop, to press the threads in like manner, downwards, adjoining the loop, that its hold may be retained; tying them with a reef-lmot. (Fig. 91.) Failing these precautions, with regard to the vessel, the ligature may shift its position, and loosen- ing, haemorrhage recurs or supervenes when adhesion is not yet stifficiently advanced to safely seal the vessel. For the same reason, a ligature should be applied so as not to include any extraneous texture —a bit of muscle, a vein, or nerve; for then the twofold effect on the artery enclosed may not be produced, or sloughing may proceed more speedily in the extraneous texture than in the arterial coat, the lio-ature become loosened, and haemorrhage occur. Inclusion of a nerve-filament causes also great pain at the time, and for a considerable period in some cases. An imbedded artery may be inaccessible with- out including some other texture. In the most inaccessible situations' ■—as when, by amputation, the anterior tibial artery is divided at its origin and deep in the muscles between the heads of the tibia and fibula —it is absolutely necessary to " dip " for an artery so placed. A curved needle armed with a ligature is in this way carried round the vessel, and the thread tied as usual, but including as small a quantity of extraneous texture as possible. On the other hand, the ligature should not be applied to any projecting portion of the artery; the vessel being there denuded of its own nutrient vessels (vasa vasorum), plastic lymph is not effused, and when the slough-ring separates, haemorrhage is inevitable. Regarded as a foreign body, antagonistic to healing by primary adhesion, one end of the ligature is usually cut off close to the knot on the artery, leaving only the other end to command the noose, and thus reducing the quantity of foreign body in the wound by one half. The ligature or ligatures may be brought to one or other angle of the wound, and there fixed by a small piece of plaster, thus also limiting any defective adhesion to the narrow track occupied by the thread or threads. Duly observing all these suggestions of pathology, the constructive part of the process—adhesion—will generally accompany the destruc- tive—-sloughing—with even progress ; permanent closure of the vessel accompanying the separation of a ring of slough with the ligature. The security of the vessel is safely ascertained by gently twirling the thread between the thumb and finger. A yielding sensation shows that Nature has done her work, and that the ligature detached can bo withdrawn without the risk of haemorrhage. This, however, cannot be expected, nor should the experiment be tried, before sufficient time has elapsed—the j^en'ocZ varying from twenty-four hours to as many days or more, chiefly according to the size of the artery.