SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERy. 4G8 The old operation, or tliat of Antyllus, consisted in extirpating the aneurism. An incision was made throughout the whole extent of the aneurismal sac, in order to scoop out the coagulum and expose the two orifices of the artery leading into the sac; immediately above and below those points a ligature was passed round the vessel, securing it in both directions. But an unsound portion of artery was thus selected —that immediately above and below the sac, which participated in the degenerative change of structure that originally gave rise to the aneurism. Hence, secondary hremorrhage, perilous or perhaps fatal, generally occurred when either ligature separated, and as often necessi- tated amputation 5 while invariably, the large wound of the aneurismal operation healed tediously and often precariously to life by exhausting suppurative discharge. In Hunter's operation, a sound portion of artery was selected, thus avoiding these evil consequences. This operation, therefore, at once superseded that of Antyllus, and Anel's also—the ligature having been applied equally close to the aneurism in that operation. But the principle of Hunter's operation, in relation to the natural cure of aneurism, differed even more essentially from both these operations ; in the assumption that it was necessary only to reduce the force of the circulation by applying the ligature at some distance from the aneurism, for the process of natural cure to super- vene, instead of entirely arresting the current of blood through the aneurism by ligaturing the adjoining portion of artery. Signs after Ligature, by Hunter's Operation.—Certain alterations in the signs of aneurism attend or follow the Hunterian operation of ligature. The aneurism ceases to pulsate and partially subsides. These changes taking place immediately the ligature is drawn tight, are valuable signs of its successful application. The circulation of blood being proportionately arrested in the limb, it becomes numb and cold, and its muscular power is diminished. As the collateral circula- tion is established, these immediate effects disappear, and the temj^era- ture of the limb may rise above that of its fellow. After-treatment.—The treatment after this operation should be directed to avert the temporary tendency to gangrene, pending the establishment of an adequate collateral circulation. Hence, the circu- lation and temperature of the limb must be maintained. A thick wrapper of carded wool answers most effectually, aided by a suitable elevation of the limb to relieve congestion. The diet should be moderately nourishing and stimulant, which, with the judicious ad- ministration of opium, will tend to sustain the process of cure. CofLsequences.—Certain unfavourahle consequences and evil results are liable to ensue from this application of the ligature for aneurism. (1.) Pulsation may continue or return in the aneurismal sac. The small stream of blood conveyed by collateral branches into the artery below the ligature, and thence into the sac, depositing the laminated fibrine, is not a pulsatory cm'reut. If, however, these feeding vessels are larger than sufficient for this purpose, pulsation continues, or soon returns ; if they enlarge immoderately, then also pulsation returns. Any regurgitation of blood into the sac, from below, and therefore in opposition to the current, need scarcely be taken into account. If it occur, it will cause gradual enlargement of the aneurism without pulsation; simulating the gradual increase of a malignant tumour, liarer causes are these :—Any condition of the blood which, delaying or