93 INFLAMMATION. detachment of an external portion of bone, in the shape of a tliiu scale or plate. Ulceration may be conveniently described first, as being in its nature introductory to mortification. The fTienomena of ulceration generally, are these:—A portion of integument having become inflamed from any cause, after a few days a small piece separates and comes away, leaving a corresponding loss of substance—a chasm, from which a discharge, variable in kind and quantity, issues. Thus, then, the skin, or mucous membrane, with perhaps the subjacent cellular tissue, has undergone a " solution of continuity," slowly, however, as contrasted with a wound, or other recent breach of texture, and an ulcer is formed. (Fig. 25.) Its forma- tion and extension constitute ulceration. The pathological nature of this process has long been a disputed question. All the explanations Fig. 25. advanced may be reduced to two beads. Firstly, that ulceration signifies molecular dis- integration, liquefaction, and separation of the soft parts, thereby leaving a chasm. Secondly, that ulceration is an illustration of the process of absorption, the lymphatics and veins being jointly engaged, more especially the former. Possibly, both modes of removing the dis- organized textiires, co-operate in ulceration. The evidence will be fully cousidered in connection with the general pathology of Ulceration (ch. iv.). Textures undergo certain changes of structure preparatory to their ulceration. The latter is essen- tially molecidar disintegration; but, in so far as it proceeds from inflammation, degeneration of texture prepares the way for such disintegration. And the previous degeneration is generally fatty. The proper discharge from an ulcer—the pro- duct of ulceration, not of a granulating sore—is iclior. It is a thin sanious fluid, colourless or slightly yellow, structureless, but mixed with exudation, pus, and blood corpuscles, and with the debris of the ulcerating textures. Hence its variable appearance. Its essential chemical composition is unknown. Ichor corrodes the living tissues, and is thus distinguished from pus, which it often re- sembles in appearance. Thus also it maintains and extends ulceration. Ulceration, although itself a destructive process, is sometimes restorative or reparative, in virtue of its purpose. For example, by the pointing of an abscess and the natural forrnation of an opening for the escape of matter externally, or internally into some channel through which it can be safely discharged, as through, the bronchi, stomach, intestine, or bladder. Mortification is only another mode in whicb any part of the body may die; a reciprocal relation subsisting between this process of destruction and ulceration. They differ in degree, but are one in kind. Ulceration may be exaggerated into mortification, and this may subside into that. Both are convertible by difilerent gradations of the same process of destruction. Thus, now and then during ulceration,