COMPOUND FRACTURE. 59l7 o£ soliciting its Tinion by adhesion, and fhus convert the fracture into a simple one. For this purpose, a pad o£ wet lint, or soaked in carbolic-acid solution, should be applied over and around the wound, so as entirely to exclude the air. Considering the great difference, in safety and time, between primary adhesion and the process of suppurative granulation, assuredly the former mode of reparation should be first solicited in all cases. In some compound fractures, with comparatively little laceration of the soft textures and of the aperture externally, as when produced in- directly, by protrusion of the bone, the wound being closed and pro- tected from the air, heals by adhesion in a few days, and the subsequent progress of the case is that of simple fracture. In other cases, with contusion of the wound and subjacent textures, this mode of healing may be tried, in the first instance; but it should be abandoned imme- diately effusion and tension supervene in any such degree as clearly indicates the necessity for a free discharge of clots, and of matter during the course of suppuration. Early solicitation of primary ad- hesion, and timely abandonment of the attem]Dt, in favour of suppura- tion, as soon as this event occurs or is inevitable, constitute a compro- mise, which overrules any objection as to the prohahle failure of the one and the supervention of the other. If the attempt prove successful, the advantage is gained of then having to deal with only a simple fracture. Displacement, occurring during the healing of the wound, might tempt the Surgeon to rectify it; but the safer practice will be, to wait until this can be done without destroying the granulations, whereby probably the most intense inflammation would be provoked, and the fracture be made, or become, again compound. Sujjpuraiion, or Gangrene, having supervened, the treatment should respond to these consequences of Inflammation. Firstly, as regards local measures. With progressive suppuration, pus may be diffused and accumulate, without much, if any, tendency to point; then, early, free, and dependent incisiSks are necessary, for the easy vent of matter as it forms, and to relieve tension. Otherwise, the pent-up matter, working its way about the seat of fracture and among the textures around, dis- sects and detaches the bone, periosteum, muscles, nerves, and vessels ; and thus destroying their continuity, the fracture remains unuuited, and the parts around become saturated and soddened; in short, an irreparably disorganized Hmb is the result. Consequently, at a later period, incision may be necessary to remove any portion of dead bone, whether as an exfoliation or a sequestrum. Comj)resses of lint, properly appUed, will do much to prevent the burrowing of matter; and the pad of wet lint, which closed the wound in the first instance, may now be advantageously exchanged for a poultice, or piece of wet spongio-piline, as a cleaner application, to promote the discharge, for a time. But this should be succeeded by light water-dressing, or with carbolic-acid solution, when the continuance of warmth with moisture would only sodden and relax, and when the wound is granulating. Hectic fever and exhaustion, consequent on prolonged and perchance profuse suppurative discharge, are best relieved by a diet, consisting principally of animal food, in which albuminoid matters prevail, with wine, beer, or spirits, according to the patient's previous habits. In short, what is termed a nourishing and stimulating diet is most «£B.cacious; the quantity of food being regulated by the digestive