SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 644 fla.t surface of the body of either pubis covered with its immediate plate of libro-cartilage. The transverse or connecting fibres had given way, as well as the ligaments on each aspect of the symphysis, in- cluding the strong swi-pubic ligament. Gatt,ses.—Direct violence is almost the only cause of fracture of the pelvis. A heavy fall, or a crushing compression of the innominate bones, as by a cart-wheel passing over the pelvis, or the force of a squeeze between the buffers of two railway carriages; such, and similar accidents, are the ordinary occasions of these injuries; or they result from the equally formidable contusion of gunshot wounds. Indirect violence sometimes produces fracture of the pelvis; as of the acetaba- lum, when a person falls from a height and alights on his feet. Force applied from the back may have the same effect^ an instance of which is cited by Hamilton—a man setat. twenty-seven, on whose back a number of bricks had fallen while his right knee rested on the bank of a trench. Death ensued in a few days; and a fracture was found extending through the bottom of the right acetabulum, and about one inch and a half of the rim at its upper and posterior margin was completely detached, otherwise than as being retained by a portion of the capsular ligament. Dislocation upwards and backwards could be readily reproduced to and fro. The femur was not broken. Falls on the hip, striking the great trochanter, are perhaps the most common occasion of fractured acetabulum; the force then being transmitted more directly. Course and Terminations.—Union of the fracture takes place generally without diflBculty, resulting only in some degree of lameness. This result occurs more frequently in fracture of the acetabulum, with dislocation, owing to the nature of the injury not having been detected, or the impossibility of maintaining reduction. Permanent lameness ensues. But any visceral injuries are of more serious or fatal con- sequence. The chief difference in such cases depends on the situation of the injury; whether, or not, laceration of the bladder opens into the peritoneal cavity, with extravasation of urine internally or externally. In the one case, death is almost inevitable; in the other, urinary in- filtration behind or in front of the deep perineal fascia, will be followed by suppuration and sloughing, perilous to life. Treatment.—Any visceral injury demands immediate attention. A catheter should be introduced to discover the state of the bladder. If bloody urine or other symptoms of injury to this organ or the urethra be present, the catheter must be kept in the bladder, to prevent extra- vasation of urine. In the event of exti'avasation externally, early and free incisions into the scrotum may avert the full extent of the local mischief, and the consequent typhoid disorder. But the treat- ment of such Extravasation of Urine is described in a subsequent chapter. The fracture itself requires comparatively little surgical manipulation. The pelvis should be bound round with a broad roller, or rib-bandage, and the patient laid recumbent at rest on a flat bed or mattress, sufficiently firm to counteract any tendency to displacement. The thighs should be flexed upon the abdomen, and supported with pillows under the knees; this position preventing displacement by muscular action, and often proving also the most comfortable. Fracture of the acetabulum must be secured by means of a long splint, or a hip-splint of gutta-percha, moulded to the side of the