480 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Oourse, and Consequences.—Whether simply as Aneurismal Varix, or as Varicose Aneurism, the vascular condition may remain stationary for years. There are cases of varix on record, which remained without farther inconvenience for fourteen, twenty, and thirty-five years. But in all cases, the tendency is to gangrene of the limb or part below the seat of communication between the artery and vein. ^ Treatment.—The more simple condition—Aneurismal Varix—re- quires treatment only in proportion to its progressive enlargement. In most cases remaining stationary for months or even years, and without any notable inconvenience, no remedial interference will bo necessary. The prevention of any further enlargement of the already aneurism- ally enlarged and tortuous veins should be the first consideration. Moderate pressure, applied over the aperture of communication between the artery and vein, will, generally, be a sufficient restraint to counter- act any such tendency. A suitable compress should be worn, with an elastic bandage to support the veins below the aperture. In exceptional cases, aneurismal varix undergoes progressive enlarge- ment; at length attaining such a size as to endanger the limb by gangrene, or the patient's life by hsemorrhage. Then indeed it becomes necessary to entirely stop the transmission of blood from the artery into the vein. No partial arrest, no mere retardation of the arterial current, will avail. Compression, whether applied directly over the aperture, or indirectly to the artery above the varix, or the Hunterian ligature applied higher up, would, therefore, alike be useless. The transmission of blood can be entirely precluded only by cutting off all communication between the two vessels ; namely, from above and below. Hence, the operation by double ligature of the artery, on either side of the aperture, is the only safeguard; the same as for a punctured wound of the vessel. In the event of Varicose Aneurism having formed, this indication of treatment is the more imperative. A circumscribed false aneurism co-exists with the varix, and the sac has two apertui-es, placed also on opposite sides ; thus freely transmitting a stream of blood continuously through the sac, and completely frustrating any tendency to the deposition of fibrine and spontaneous cure. Gangrene and haemorrhage are both more imminent than in aneurismal varix. Operation.—The application of double ligature under the circum- stances of aneurismal varix, and of varicose aneurism especially, is attended with some difficulty. In either case, the considerable vari- cose enlargement of the vein, forming a fusiform pouch over the aperture in the artery, with tortuous eel-like communicating branches of vein above and below, and the dilatation of the artery itself above the apeiiiiTre, together constitute a pathological condition which well- nigh effaces the mere surgical anatomy of, say, the bend of the elbow, in a case of aneurismal varix resulting from unskilful venesection. If an intervening aneurism be superadded, as between the brachial artery and median basilic vein, in the case supposed; if, in fact, there be a varicose aneiuism, this pathological complication still further transforms the purely anatomical relations of the part. Thus, in performing the operation for double ligature, the first incision through the skin, and which lays open the venous pouch, brings into view a cavity, at the bottom of which an aperture is seen. But this is not the aperture for