GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 216 ensue. Iron, bark, and cod-liver oil, with other means of improving nutrition, have a decidedly beneficial influence. The disease seldom returns in the cicatrix, but lupoid nodules often re-appear in the imme- diate neighbourhood. These admit of early excision, as a preferable mode of removal to the more wide-spread destruction resulting from cauterization. Rodent Ulcer.—Variously named, as Rodent Cancer, Cancroid Ulcer, or Lupus Exedeus, the nature of this ulcer is disputed. Dr. C. Warren, of Boston, regards it as a modification of epithelial cancer, but distinguished as the small-celled and non-infiltrating form, and the progress of which is very slow. On the other hand, Mr. Jonathan Hutchinson and Sir James Paget have failed to find in rodent ulcer any of the structural elements of cancer, epithelial or scirrhous. It consists of fibroid tissue, with numerous nucleated exudation-cells. There can be no doubt, however, that the boundary line between these affections, although usually distinct, is not abrupt; that transitional forms occur. Commencing as a troublesome pimple, situated generally near the nose or inner angle of the eye, this may disappear and return, during a period of some months or years ; at length, a small, superficial ulcer forms, having a raised and hardened margin, set in healthy tissue. Progressing slowly, as a fretting ulceration, it spreads to the nose or eyelid, yet sparing the eye until a later period ; extending in depth, the ulceration destroys the nose and bones of the face, passing back- wards even to the pharynx, and thus forming a hideous chasm, over- spread with a greyish pultaceous matter. Similar ulcers are said to have occurred on the breast, and external genitals, but such cases are doubtful. Rodent ulcer rarely appears under forty years of age ; and both sexes are about equally liable. !N'o kind of treatment has any curative efficacy. At an early period, the part may be excised; or cauterization, with fuming nitric acid, may have some beneficial influence in temporarily arresting the spread of ulceration. Any poi'tion of loosened bone had better be removed, in order to preserve a cleaner surface, and which lies perhaps beyond the reach of detergent washes. Prom the carious cavity of deep ulceration I have removed, with forceps, several large portions of loosened bone, blackened, sodden, and foetid; or entire bones, as the ethnoid, save the cribriform plate, with the vomer, or the maxillary antrum and the palate bone. No hemorrhage attends such procedures. (12.) Syphilitic Ulcee.—Primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilitic ulcers form part of the general pathology of Syphilis. Mortification.—The transition of ulceration to mortification, as already noticed, will have suggested their mutual relation. As pro- cesses, they differ in degree, but are one in kind. The former may be exaggerated into the latter, and this again may subside into that. Ulceration and mortification are convertible by gradations of the saine process, disintegration of structure ; the one, molecular, as a liquid discharge; the other en masse, presenting accumulations of disinte- grated matter. Thus, during ulceration, ever and anon some tem- porary cause may accelerate the process; a larger portion of tissue undergoes disintegration than can pass away as discharge; a portion of such matter then appears as slough, instead of having disappeared imperceptibly—molecule after molecule—in ichorous solution. It is