263 CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. of tlie rima glottidis, denoted by a broken voice, impulsive cougb. and foul expectoration, may be a manifestation of advanced and grave secondary sypbilis. Portions of the laryngeal cartilages—e.g., the cornua of the thyroid cartilage, in an ossified state—are occasionally coughed up. But syphilitic laryngitis presents nothing peculiar in its characters, from first to last, whereby it can be distinguished from chronic laryngitis under other circumstances. The symptoms just mentioned might follow laryngitis, from a common cold. (3.) S]iphilitic iritis was overlooked by Hunter, in his observations of the course of the venereal disease; but although iritis is undoubt- edly a frequent form of secondary syphilis, it cannot be distinguished from arthritic iritis; and resembles scrofulous iritis, in so far as regards the appearance of the eye itself. "Although," observes Law- rence, " the effusion of reddish, brownish, or brownish-yellow lymph on the iris in the adult, clearly shows the case to be venereal, I have seen analogous appearances in several instances, both of young children and infants, in whom no suspicion of syphilis could be entertained." The symptom in question is not peculiar to syphilitic iritis. Nor is "displacement of the pupil upwards and inwards" a characteristic appearance. It has been seen, especially by Mackenzie, in chronic I'heumatic arthritis; and still more frequently in scrofulous sclerotitis, Avithout iritis. Moreover, it is present only occasionally in syphilitic iritis. This symptom, therefore, is inconstant as well as equivocal. Mackenzie mistrusts all the special symptoms accorded to syphilitic iritis, excepting the tawny or rusty colour of the iris near its pupillary edge, a condition present in most syphilitic cases, and almost exclu- sively in them alone. (4.) Chronic enlargement of the testicle occurs late, if at all, in' the course of syphilis, and cannot be distinguished from scrofulous enlarge- ment of this organ. The physical characters which the testis assumes in these two diseased conditions are very similar. In both cases, the enlargement may commence in the epididymis—sometimes in syphilitic, generally in scrofulous disease. In both cases, this swelling subse- quently engages portions of the testis itself, the intervening portions i-emaining free and healthy; so that sometimes, by careful manipula- tion, nodules can be felt in the substance of the organ, through the tunica albuginea. At length the whole testicle becomes considerably enlarged, and feels hard and heavy. Then the scrotum may become inflamed and adherent, eventually undergoing ulceration, accompanied with protrusion of the testicle. In one such case, having excised the organ, on section, the appearances were those of a scrofulous testis. The epididymis was filled with a yellow friable matter, which, under the microscope, was seen to consist of imperfect broken cells and granules; while nodules of this substance were deposited here and there throughout the testicle, itself otherwise healthy, the reddish-grey colour of its tubuli seminiferi contrasting with the yellow nodules. The man bore the mark as of a chancre at the corona glandis, which he says occurred about two years ago, and that the testicle began to (;nlai'ge nine months prior to the operation. Judging merely from the condition of the organ itself, in this case, it would have been almost impossible to have pronounced its enlargement syphilitic; and, indeed, the most accurate diagnosticians have acknowledged the resemblance of scrofulous and syphilitic disease of the testicle. Under whatever