ANEUKISM. 467 been thus reduced, coagulation within the sac is promoted, yet without cutting off the supply of blood entirely. A sufl&cient quantity is transmitted for the process of coagulation, by collateral branches issuing from the artery above the ligature and com- municating with the vessel below, but above the aneurismal sac ; while there is also a sufl&cient quantity of blood transmitted onwards, and by collateral branches which become adequately enlarged, for the maintenance of the limb below. (Fig. 117.) Mean- while, coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine is proceeding in the aneurismal sac, and it extends into the artery as high, perhaps, as the liga- ture ; both the sac and this portion of the artery thus become consolidated ; the ligature separates, in the usual manner, by sloughing of the ring of artery within the noose, and the divided ends of the vessel are simultaneously sealed with plastic lymph. This takes place in a period ranging from ten days to a month; but varying chiefly according to the size of the artery, and the plastic power of the individual. Of 54 cases recorded by Crisp, in which the femoral artery was ligatured, the average period for the separation of the ligature was 18 days. Finally, the consolidated aneui'ism and artery are partially absorbed, so that the latter withers and degenerates into a fibrous cord. The limb, nourished by the collateral circulation, may nevertheless become some- what atrophied. (&.) Anel's operation, 1710, contrasts with the Hunterian, in its ultimate jpurpose, more than as an operative procedure. The operation proposed by Anel was to ligature the aneurismal artery, on the cardiac side, but close to the aneurism. (See Fig. 116, left figure.) The aneurismal blood escaping through the distal portion of artery, the sac would, it was thought, collapse, and thus the tumour disajapear. For this purpose, the blood must remain fluid in the aneurism, instead of undergoing coagulation and the deposition of laminated fibrine, with occlusion of the sac, followed by the absorption of both, the tumour disappearing in that way. Although, then, these two operations are somewhat similar, they differ widely in their ultimate purpose as to their modes of cure. Moreover, Anel having performed his operation once only, and for traumatic aneurism of the brachial artery at the head of the elbow, he never himself repeated it, nor advocated its repetition, in similar cases. He apparently regarded his operation as applicable only in that particular case ; unlike Hunter, as a conception ruling the treatment of a large class of cases. It is, however, with reference to idiopathic aneurism—as implying a diseased state of the artery—that the operations of Anel and Hunter notably contrast, and when compared with the old operation which had been designed for the cure of such aneurism. ♦ From Listen.