SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 458 bones erode, -without, however, tlio accompanying formation of pus, as ill caries. (Fig. 113.) The bursting of circumscribed aneurism, and its conversion into the diffused condition, takes place in two ways. By sloughing and rupture of the skin, or of the mucous membrane in certain internal aneurisms ; or by fissure of a serous membrane, if the aneurism burst into the peritoneum, the pleura, or pericardium. The haemorrhage, taking place externally or internally, is sometimes suddenly fatal, or it recurs again and again, and thus at length proves fatal. Various special functional disturbances may be produced, according to the particular seat of aneurism. Thus, aneurisms of the aortic arch give rise to aphonia and cough, by pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve; or to dyspnoja and dysphagia, when the trachea and oesophagus are compressed. With diffused Aneurism, the functional disturbances—consequent on the circumscribed condition— may persist, or be relieved, temporarily or permanently. Yet with pro- gressive enlargement of the diifused tumour, other functional disturb- ance and alterations of suirounding parts supervene. Constitutionally, the influence of Aneurism varies with its structural condition. If cir- cumscribed, the tumour may induce some degree of inflammatory or sympathetic fever, arising from the local irritation; but this is suc- ceeded by exhaustion, from prolonged pain and sleeplessness. If the aneurism be diffused, the same constitutional disturbances ensue; and, when circumscribed aneurism becomes diffused, this alteration of structural condition is accompanied, as already stated, by more or less shock, which is due both to the sudden and severe pain, and to the equally sudden hfemorrhage or loss of blood in circulation. Teeminations.—Aneurism may undergo reparation, or spontaneous cure, as it is termed; or burst, and eventually prove fatal by hsemor- rhage, externally, internally, or in both directions. Death may, how- ever, result from functional disturbance, induced by pressure, involving some important organ; as in aortic, and other internal aneurisms. (1.) Spontaneous Cure.—Circumscrihed Aneurism is naturally dis- posed to undergo spontaneous cure. The essential nature of this process is coagulation of the blood within the aneurismal sac; for although coagulation therein may occur natui'ally under four or five different contingent circumstances, as modes of cure, they alike tend to thus obliterate the aneurism. The principle of cure will be readily understood. Aneurism arises whenever the force and velocity, or the impetus of the blood's motion through any given artery, or is no longer counterbalanced by the elasticity and contractile force, or the resisting strength of the walls of that vessel. Coagulation of the blood within the aneurismal sac tends to restore this resisting strength, and is there- fore proportionately conducive to the cure of aneurism. The details of this process are briefly these :—The blood continuing to flow through the aneurism, leaves upon the interior of the sac a thin layer of coagulum, upon which another is superimposed, and so on, forming a laminated coagulum; the outermost portion of which, attached to the sac, acquires considerable firmness and resisting strength. This consists of distinctly laminated fibrine. (See Fig. 108.) It eventually becomes somewhat friable, and resembles boiled beef in colour. The portion of coagulum next in order has the consistence and appearance of damson cheese; while the innermost portion, in contact with the flowing blood, is semi-fluid, like currant jelly. By this successive