SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 584 maj7 bo dissolved by the cell-formation, thereby setting free and disintegrating the inorganic matter. The normal result in the fractured bone is, that the osseous texture becomes porous, from enlargement of the Haversian canals; after maceration, therefore, the dry bone appears rough, while young bone is deposited around the end, and in the medulla. The periosteum is used up, and dis- appears, in an ossifying external callus; this membrane, therefore, plays only a secondary part, instead of being principally productive, as was formerly supposed, in the formation of callus. If external callus proceeded alone from the periosteum, the portions of bone free of this membrane, as where tendons are attached to the bone, could produce no callus. The new bone, wherever placed—between, around, or within—is true bone, and appears soon to acquire its proper miscroscopic characters. A new periosteum also is produced. At first firm, thin, and distinctly lamellar, it gradually acquires toughness and compact- ness of textui'e. But the external and internal callus, when present, &ve provisional and temporary. They serve the purpose of two natural splints to retain the fractured ends in apposition while the intermediate or permanent callus is forming. When no longer requisite for this purpose, they are gradually withdrawn, the bone being fashioned off by absorption, and finally restored to nearly its original symmetry of outline. Little remains in after years to mark the scene of former injury, as if Nature, ever seeking to show her perfect work, were unwilling that any evidence of past imperfection should permanently remain on record. In several cases of transverse fracture of the tibia, through the middle of the shaft, which I have had under my care, the line of union could scarcely be Fig. 193. seen or felt in the shin. Thus, then, by a modifica- ^ tion of the reparative process n of adhesion, as in an incised li wound, a simple fracture is reunited, and without regard to the particular direction of this lesion—transverse, oblique, or Jw >\ longitudinal,— or the position /g °^ fragments—in even ap- it >Sl position or overlaying; aua- ji yjk tomical conditions or contin- 11 i| gencies of minor consideration, If i| pathologically and practically. [I I It is, indeed, most interest- I I ing to observe, in corroboration I I of the provisional character of I wp callus, externally aud intei'n- £q ally, that no such callus may be ^ formed, even when the frag- ments are constantly subject to motion, as in animals. Fracture of the furculum or collar-bone in the common fowl may thus unite, as shown by a specimen m my possession. (Fig. 193.) Union of a fracture of the thigh-bone m