GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 407 on the ground, scatters its fragments upwards, and thua any such fragment will strike probably at an acute or obtuse angle. The penetrating: power of a projectile is determined mainly by its shape and velocity. The cylindro-conoidal form is. very pene- trating, in virtue of ita mechanical advantage as a wedge. Thus, supposing one of the old musket bullets to strike a limb- at 80 yards, and an Enfield rifle conical bullet of the same weight at 800 yards;. the rate of velocity being equal in either case, the injury from the latter shaped ball may be expected to be much greater than that from the former. The influence of velocity is well known, and shown by the- diffei"ent effects of the same kind of missile according to its speed. A spent cannon-ball, rolling or bounding along the ground—ricochetting —may carry away a limb; whereas the same ball at full speed would level a line of men. But the former injury, occurring possibly when the cannon-ball is rolling along so slowly, as apparently to have no more force than a cricket-ball, shows also the influence of weight as an element of the momentum. De^isity is an important consideration respecting the power of penetration. For example, the projectiles and charges being of the same weight, when lead is used, the penetration at 800 yards is one-third greater from the Whitworth than the Enfield ri&e; but, if a less yielding material be used, as when lead is mixed with tin, its penetration is as 17 to 4, at 800 yards. (Longmore.) The hind of motion has certainly some relation to the penetrating power of any projectile. If spinning, like a top, at a right-angle to the line of flight, as a bullet discharged from the old smooth-bored musket, the projectile is easily turned aside from its course; whereas the screw- motion of a ball discharged from a rifle-bored tube, coinciding with the line of flight, is very penetrating. Lastly, the angle at which a projectile strikes must affect its penetration. A right-angle will be more effectual than an acute or obtuse angle, the impinging body having a tendency to glance off in striking at the latter angle. Small shot, such as are used in civil life, seldom penetrate deeply; unless when discharged at a short distance, and entering in a mass, they thus resemble a bullet, or even a larger ball, according to the charge; When scattered and spent by a longer range, shot of small size are often found to have entered only skin-deep ; but to have been deflected, probably, in all directions. Other bodies are sometimes associated with projectiles as indirectly causing wounds, additional, perhaps, to gunshot injury. Such missiles may be stones, splinters of wood or bits of iron from gun-carriages, portions of clothing or coins, and fragments of bone from a wounded comrade. Having borrowed their motion from the projectile itself, of whatever kind—perhaps a ball already spent—any such body strikes with a proportionately diminished impetus, and with different degrees of effect under various circum- stances affecting its own displacement, shape, and so forth. The effects of a gunshot wound, locally and constitutionally, are quite analagous to those of a punctured wound, or of any contused and lacerated wound. Parts are damaged far beyond the apparent extent of injury. Thus, the textures are killed to a greater or less extent along the track of the wound, and a corresponding tubular slough is eventually formed. Shock, rather than syncope from sudden hsemor- rhage, is the primary constitutional disturbance. This sloughing is more extensive, and the shock more overwhelming and prolonged,