SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 518 from the surface; especially as connected with the posterior tibial, throughout the greater portion of the course of that vessel. The Treatment must be conducted on. the same principles as for aneurism in other situations; compression above the tumour, when practicable; or, that having failed, ligature of the femoral should be duly considered, with reference to the probability of curing the aneu- rism and also the consequent perijs of this operation. Wounds and Traumatic Aneurism.—Double ligature of the vessel, at the seat of wound, or the resulting aneurism, is unquestionably, as in all similar cases, the appropriate rule of treatment. But this operative procedure may be rendered impracticable by the depth of the vessel, especially in a muscular limb, and increased by the infiltration of blood. Under these circumstances, other procedures have, occasionally, been resorted to ; and, in the event of secondary haemorrhage, they must be taken into consideration. Ligature of the popliteal or femoral artery has thus proved success- ful in arresting hemorrhage. Wound of the posterior tibial, with secondary haemorrhage, warranted ligature of the popliteal artery, in a case under the care of Samuel Cooper ; and diffused traumatic aneu- rism of the same vessel seemed to justify ligature of the femoral, in a case under Dupuytren. Amputation should always be the last resource. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism.—The latter condition has occurred in the posterior tibial artery and one of the venae comites, just above the internal annular ligament at the ankle-joint. The two vessels communicated through a small circumscribed aneurism inter- vening between them. No history, I believe, could be ascertained; this varicose aneurism having been discovered by Mr. Cadge in the dis- secting room of University College, when he was Demonstrator of Anatomy in that Institution; and I well remember he showed me the specimen, which is, I believe, unique. CHAPTER XXYII. LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. Operations for the Ligature of Arteries are more conveniently and instructively described apart from the various Aneurisms to which these Operations pertain. By viewing the Arterial System thus Surgically as a whole, the similarity of anatomical relations in contiguous portions of the same artery will save much unnecessary repetition, which would otherwise be unavoidable, in describing the operations for their ligature. Certain general directions are applicable to the ligature of all arteries; and they relate either to the operation as performed on an artery in its continuity, or at the seat of a wound involving an artery. Ligature of an Artery in its Continuity.—This operation consists in dividing the textures down to the artery, and then applying a ligature around the vessel. A muscle or tendon, or perhaps a bone, is observed as the recognized guide for the incision. Thus, the inner