ANEURISMS AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 485 lutely no clinical history of its own. If, as at times, though with extraordinary rarity, an aneurism should limit itself to the mid-portion of the trunk and anterior wall (Fig. 125), it may remain for a time, or even through its entire course, intra-thoracic, descending and moulding itself upon the aorta, evoking all the physical phenomena and symptoms of aneurism of the ascending and transverse aorta, or it may additionally, by one or more loculi, ascend the neck either on the tracheal or acro- mial side of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Should, therefore, a pulsating- tumour, with or without cervical extensions, occupy the space corre- sponding to the second and third costal carti- lages of the right side and upper portion of the sternum, and present the ordinary symptoms of aneurism; though we may be practically safe in locating th'C disease in the aorta, it is not from any inherent dilference of signs or symptoms, but from the rarity of intra-thoracic innominate aneurism. " It is only when the distal end of the trunk becomes the seat of aneurism, that accuracy of diagnosis is attainable, though, in such case, the origins of the carotid and subclavian arteries often share the dilata- tion. Certain signs and symptoms are ascribed to innominate aneurism. Their value is high, in proportion as intra-tho3?acic disease can be eliminated; but extremely small, as the evidence for such disease increases. This is by far the most important point in diagnosis. The only possible source of error is the rare fact of an aortic sac arising from the convex wall of the arch, and mounting up the neck. Valuable aid is afforded by the knowledge of some antecedent local injury or violent and unusual effort; very many such cases being traumatic. These points determined; should severe pain of the right shoulder, clavicle, right side of the head, neck, and arm, with local venous congestion or oedema, precede the appearance of a pulsating tumour, which emerging from beneath the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and often dis- placing the head of the clavicle during its ascent, distends the space between the ieads of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and fills the epi- sternal notch—should there be marked weakening of pulsation in the right radial and carotid arteries, pressure upon one or other artery loosening the impulse on the tumour—should a murmur, loudest over the tumour and at the sterno-clavicular articulation, diminish down- wards, yet ascend the arteries on the right side, if pervious, such murmur being absent upon the left side; then, an aneurism of the terminal portion of the innominate artery may, with tolerable certainty, be diagnosed." * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1680a. In this case, an innominate aneurism springs from the anterior and inner wall of the artery, in nearly its whole extent; attaining to a large size, and pressing forwards and inwards, it has slightly displaced the trachea. The sac contained some coagulum, but is filled with wool. The arch of the aorta just below is the seat of atheromatous and calcareous degene- ration ; and the first and second portions of the arch are slightly dilated, and slightly sacculated in parts. The carotid and subclavian arteries were healthy.