GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY^ 144 flexions of the peritoneum ; in tlie ovaries, Fallopian tubes, or vagina (Walshe) ; in the interstitial fibro-cellular tissue of nerves. Connected sometimes with boJie, and—like cartilaginous tumours— formed either in its substance, or between it and the periosteum. The jaws are most liable to this kind of growth. Connected with the dura mater, is another frequent situation. In the sub-mucous cellular tissue, " more particu- larly of the intestine, stomach, and oesophagus; now and then in that of the larynx " (Rokitansky); in that of the pharynx, the nares, the rontal and sphenoidal sinuses; in the sub-peritoneal and sub-pleural tissue (Walshe); in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, as in the lobules of ears, after piercing for earrings (Paget); in the mammas, testicle, thyroid gland, thymus gland; in the arterial tissue; and indeed wherever fibrous or fibro-cellular tissue is normally present or most prevalent. As occurring in the substance of the heart of a child, six years old, a unique specimen is described by Luschka. (Virchow's " Archives," viii.) Fibrous tumour is usually a solitary growth; excepting in the nerves or nterus, in either of which several may co-exist. But when in the uterus, this species of growth rarely forms in any other part at the same time. Origin.—This tumour rarely appears in youth, most commonly in middle age—thirty to fifty years—and very seldom in advanced life. The uterine fibrous tumour may have some physiological relation to the organ in connection with which it occurs. Sex seems thus far to have some predisposing influence. No hereditary tendency can be traced. Course.—The influence of a fibrous tumour is purely local and mechanical. It may undergo softening, or sei'ous infiltration. Ulcer- ation of the integument of a superficial tumour is not uncommon, but the ulcer is quite healthy, and even disposed to heal. The rate of growth is slow, as compared with that of fibro-ceUular tumour; but recurrence is equally improbable. Varieties and Diagnosis.—Earthy matter or cysts may be found within the substance of this growth, and hence the terms fibro-cal- careous and fibro-cystic, as designating these modifications. Other and more important varieties are recurring growths; the fibro-nucleated (Bennett), and the recurring fibroid. (Paget.) (a.) The fibro-nucleated variety presents the external appearance and general characters of an ordinary fibrous tumour, for which Fig. 43* But it might be readily mistaken, the microscopic characters are those of the rudimentary white fibres of fibrous tissue, mixed with numerous large oval nuclei; thus representing a developmental con- dition of healthy fibrous tissue. (Fig. 43.) In point of course and tendency, the fibro-nucleated variety does not affect the lym- phatics around, nor does it con- taminate more distant parts ; yet, when extirpated, it has a tend- ency to return, in situ, (b.) The recurring fibroid variety also, in its * (a) Nests of nuclei, with interposed fusiform fibres, from section of a uterine polypus, boiled in dilute acetic acid, and dried. (Wedl.)