TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 841 The structural condition is similar, with regard to the alterations of the bones. But the muscles contracted are principally the gastroc- nemius, with also the tibialis anticus and posticus. (Figs. 460, 461.) The articular alterations, and the accompanying signs, are more like those of equinus, in propoi'tion to the extension, and curvature of the foot, which commonly occurs ; but the foot is turned inwards, or inverted and adducted; and these are the characteristic distinctions. The patient walks on the outer side of the foot (Fig. 462); or with extreme inversion, the weight is borne on the dorsum. The catises of this deformity would appear to be those of talipes equinus ; but the varus form of talipes has been attributed to pressure (1.) Fig. 462.* (2.) of the walls of the uterus. It is certainly most frequently congenital; almost as exclusively so as the equinus form is acquired talipes. Both feet, therefore, are usually affected. When only one foot is the subject of deformity, the right is twice as often affected as the left. A certain liability due to sex is shown by the greater frequency of congenital talipes in male than in female children, the proportion being three to one. Hereditary influence is often evinced, and by descent from either parent. Thus, on the father's side. Dr. Little has traced congenital club-foot through four generations; the male infant, the father, the grandfather, and the great-grandfather. The tendency to hereditary propagation on the paternal side is, perhaps, the strongest argument against the influence of uterine pressure in the production of con- genital talipes varus. Treatment.—In slight cases, remedial measures may consist in gradual mechanical extension, aided by passive motion-manipulations. A tin splint should be applied, adapted to the calf of the leg, and jDrovided with a foot-piece jointed at the ankle, the whole being properly padded ; and this should be so adjusted and bandaged as not to foi'cibly coerce the foot, in undoing the deformity. This method of treatment having failed, or when the varus is more extreme, operative interference must be resorted to, subject to Dr. Little's test—that when the foot is held in the normal position, it springs vigorously back into the abnormal as soon as it is left to itself. The operation should not be delayed longer after birth than a month, and it has been performed within the first twenty-four hours with rapid and permanent success. Tenotomy for talipes varus consists in subcutaneous division of the * Congenital talipes varus, in adult.—(1) Anterior view; (2) posterior view- (After W. Adams.)