77 INFLAMMATION. comes atrophied. The lungs may suffer in like manner, either way. Peritonitis is apt to agglutinate the abdominal viscera into one mass. Within the substance of parenchymatous organs, contractile lymph being deposited, they become stuffed, consolidated, and sometimes atrophied and granulated. Such are old hepatized lungs, cirrhosed liver, and granular kidneys. Strictures are liable to form around canals, as the oesophagus, rectum, and urethra, narrowing or closing them and thus interfering with the functions of these passages. Eventually, displacements of movable viscera are wrought by the slow contraction of lymph-deposit, overcoming the struggle of function to recover the right adjustment of parts. Analogous mischief may happen to the mechanism of the limbs; joints become stiffened by firm fibrous anchyloses, the tendons are bound in their sheaths, and the fascifB as:o:lutinated, in chronic rheumatism. This fettered condition of organs, their compression, consolidation, and atrophy, obstruction, and displacements, are the principal destruc- tive results of lymph-effusion. On the other hand, its operation is not unfrequently reparative, to reinstate an old function, ©r constructive, to fulfil a new and useful purpose. The reparative power of adhesive inflammation is manifested by the healing of incised wounds in those cases where the effusion of lymph is induced by inflammatory hypersemia. The repair of simple fracture and of simple dislocation, when reduced, is an analogous process, and commenced probably by inflammatory hypersemia consequent on the injury. So, also, wounded arteries are permanently closed by adhesion of an inflammatory character in some cases; and the healing of liga- tured arteries is certainly effected by adhesive inflammation, which seals the divided coats of the vessel above and below the line of ligature. Penetrating wounds of the thorax and abdomen, implicating the viscera, afford ample and varied evidence of the reparative power of adhesive inflammation. Wounds of the lung are healed by adhesion of the pulmonary pleura consequent on inflammation. Wounds of the ab- dominal viscera are healed in like manner wherever the peritoneal mvestment extends; and the visceral reflexion of the peritoneum is very apt to adhere to the parietal reflexion of this membrane opposite the external wound. These results are explained in describing the healing of wounds of the abdomen and thorax respectively. In certain cases the peritoneum is purposely injured by the surgeon, so as to establish adhesive inflammation. This constitutes the radical cure of hydrocele and that of hernia; the former being accomplished by a stimulating injection, the latter by long-continued pressure with a truss ; or the radical cure of hernia may be accomplished on the same principle by the successful operation recently introduced by Mr. Wood. Lastly, among the most familiar examples of beneficial adhesive in- flammation, I may mention the well-known fact that foreign bodies, long imbedded in the living tissues, thus become enclosed in organized lymph, and their presence rendered comparatively harmless. An encysted foreign body is quiescent. Constructively, we observe inflammatory adhesion preventing sup- purating, or confining its extent, in the pleura, or in the peritoneum, occasionally ; in the synovial capsules, and determining the boundary of an ordinary abscess ; beyond which circumscribed limit, in any case,