DISLOCATIONS OF THK HIP-JOINT. 709 Fig. 380.* Fig. 381. with the view of dctermiuing, if possible, the relative value of the two methods—manipulation and extension—and exhibiting an analysis of 64 cases in which manipulation was employed, will enable tlie reader to form some estimate of the difficulty in which this subject is involved • and if it does not actually decide a moot point, it will at least demonstrate that the method by manipulation is not without its hazards. Of 41 cases in which the fact is stated, 28 were reduced on the first attempt, 7 on the second, 4 on the third, and 2 on the seventh In 7 examples, the head of the femur has been thrown from one position to another upon the pelvis, travelling from the dorsum ilii to the ischiatic notch, and from thence to the foramen ovale; or directly from the dorsum to the foramen, and back again ; or in other directions, according to the character of the original dislocation ; m some instances these changes being made as often as seven times in succession. In the majority of cases, no evil consequences seem to have followed upon these changes of position." Dislocation Downwards and Forwards into the Obturator Yonk- yiy,,!^—Structural Condition.—The head of the femur lies in front of the obturator foramen, lodged upon the obturator externus muscle, the ball being directed inwards and the great trochanter outwards. The capsule has given way, especially on its inner side, and the round ligament is torn from its attachment; but the constancy of the latter lesion is dis- puted. In the case here represented (Pig. 380), the capsular lig- ament is extensively ruptured, and the round ligament torn from its pit in the head of the femur. This injury occurred in a man aged twenty- eight, deformed by rickets, who had thrown himself from a window sixty feet from the ground. The dislocation was reduced, but the case being complicated by a compound and com- minuted fi'acture of the opposite thigh, death from shock ensued fifteen hours after the accident. The dislocation was then easily reproduced, so as to replace the parts in their original position. (See also " Trans. Path. Soc," vol. ix. A. Shaw.) Signs.—This dislocation, also, presents very characteristic appear- ances. The limb is lengthened from one to two inches in extent, the knee bent, and the body inclined forwards—apparently to relax the painful tension of the psoas and iliacus muscles ; and the whole limb ♦ Middlesex Hosp. Mas., S. ill. IS.J 3 D