556 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. vessel, retaining its polished appearance, is finely puckered. Occa- sionally, a cartilaginous plate may become partly detached, and thus approach to the formation of a breach of surface—an ulcer; while the projecting eminence within the artery offers a nucleus for the gather- ing around of fibrinous deposit from the retarded blood-stream. But the cartilaginous patches are never subject to any intrinsic change, by softening or ossification. Such, at least, is the result of Hasse's obser- vations ; Audral and other pathologists have recognized the change of ossific transformation. Atheromatous, or Fatty Degeneration.—Atheromatous matter is ori- ginally seated between the internal and middle coats of the artery affected, or partly between the muscular fibres of the latter tunic; appearing in the form of patches, of a yellowish.-white colour, and opaque, flattened or slightly elevated, and fairly defined in outline; thus presenting a diJferent aspect from the inner surface of the artery in other portions of its extent. Even so abundant may be the athero- matous substance as to form lumpy protuberances within the artery. The aorta and large-sized arteries are mostly subject to this kind of degeneration. As age advances from mid-life, or earlier, some such atheromatous patches may be found after death from any cause. The atheromatous matter consists of fat-particles, with scales of chole- sterine and amorphous granules; baving a variable consistence, from that of firm putty to pultaceous or puriform matter. This fatty deposit, or educt of degeneration, is very liable to either of two changes of opposite character: softening and liquefaction, or hardening into an ossific deposit. Disintegration of the middle and internal coats of the artery accompany either of these two transformations. Softening of the atheromatous matter is attended with disinte- gration of the middle coat of the artery, which gradually loses its fibrous texture, becoming friable, and of a yellowish colour; then, the inner membrane of the vessel disintegrates, cracks, and at last dis- appears, forming an ulcer, corresponding to the former atheromatous patch. The ulcer which results from these destructive changes is set in the artery, its base being the external cellular coat, with any remains of the middle tunic; it has thus an uneven surface, while the edges are flattened and ragged. The softened atheromatous sub- stance having escaped, and been washed away by the blood-stream, the artery, attenuated at the spot of ulcei'ation, is exposed to the force of the current, beating on the bare external coat. Aneurismal dilata- tion would invariably ensue, or perforation of the artery, with sudden, and perhaps fatal, internal haemorrhage. But the external coat, always vascular, acquires even greater vascularity, and becomes thicker and stronger, offering a more resisting support, as the athero- matous degeneration pursues its destructive com-se. The other two coats do not share in this compensatory adjustment to the impinging force of the blood-current. No vascular development, in these mem- branes, besets the ulcer; its margins and base acquire a deep grey or blackish colour; while around the circumference, small fibrinous clots are gathered from the blood, and disposed sometimes in stratified layers, accumulating yet more and more. Rarely, an atheromatous ulcer heals; the inner surface of the artery is then marked with a black depression, in a puckered cicatrix ; leaving the artery, however, weak at that spot. Ulceration occurs more commonly in the aorta,