TUMOUKS OF BONE. 703 bones, but affecting cliiefly their articular ends at the attachments of tendons. Associated in their nature with this anomalous kind of exostosis are certain ossific formations in the substance of muscles, and which, as arising from some muscular strain or other injury, are known as "exercise-bones." Thus, in the deltoid muscle, osseous development sometimes results from repeated pressure or contusion by the habitual use of a rifle or fowling-piece. Hence, it is occasionally met with in the shoulder of soldiers and sportsmen. Signs.—The characters of exostosis are sufficiently obvious ; a very hard, or a somewhat yielding, rather pedunculated tumour, immovable or nearly so, and attached to the bone as an out-growth. Causes.—The compact variety is attributed to syphilis, scrofula, or other diseases affecting bone, and which produce an out-growing hypertrophy of the compact osseous texture. The cancellous variety results from the ossification of an enchondromatous or cartilaginous tumour. It may, therefore, be said to be developed through cartilage ; while the ivory variety is rarely so produced. Age seems to have some causative relation to exostosis ; both varieties commencing, probably, in earliest infancy. The epiphyseal exostosis can only occur in youth, or not later than the twenty-fourth year. (Billroth.) Men are said to be more subject than women to all these exostomatous formations. Course and Terminations.—Both forms of exostosis are slow-growing, and particularly the compact variety ; but the cancellous attains a far larger size. Both may undei'go certain destructive changes ; necrosis, or sloughing away from the bone, and with ulceration of the super- imposed integument. Both also may occasion various functional dis- turbances by pressure. The situation of exostosis will very much determine these results. Thus, an ivory exostosis has projected into the orbit; or, growing from the inner table of the skull, has pressed upon the brain; or, from the pubic bone, has perforated the bladder; and cancellous exostosis, or tendinous formations, in the neighbour- hood of a joint will more or less impair motion. Treatment.—Exostoses which remain stationary, or which form in certain situations, as the orbit, or involve a joint, such as the knee, are better left alone. The danger also of exposing cancellated bone should always be considered; diffuse suppuration and pycemia being very liable to follow the operation of removal. The tendinous forma- tions will probably prohibit operative interference, by their number, and the predisposition to ossific deposits. Otherwise, an exostosis may be removed mechanically, by excision; or destroyed, by nitric acid or other strong caustic, applied to its exposed base. Compact or ivory exostosis is often very difficult of excision. Several instruments should be provided; that one failing, another may prove efficient. A trephine, saw, chisel and mallet, or cutting-pliers, are sometimes severally requisite to remove the little ivory-hard lump of bone. They all, in turn, failed in the hands of an expert operator— the late Mr. Keate—although employed perseveringly for nearly twQ hours. The exostosis having been removed down to its base, caustic may then be applied to destroy the remaining portion by exfoliation. Potassa fusa and nitric acid were thus applied successfully in Mr. Keate's case. Exostoses do not recur after removal; and, fortunately, even when the base of attachment is left, the tumour is not likely to grow again.