749 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. In the variety which I have described, the state of the mnscles is also fully noticed with the arteries and nerves ; of which the latter structures had singularly escaped injury* (3.) Dislocation of the raduis and ulna inwards, or to the ulnar side, is much more rare than dislocation outwards, and always incom- plete, no example of complete dislocation inwards having been recorded. The ulna is driven over the elevated inner ridge of the trochlea, and falls down on the inner condyle, Fig. 355.t or epi-trochlea, embracing it instead of the trochlea; while the head of the radius, passing inwards also, occupies the trochlea. (Fig. 355.) The head of the radius is generally in the same line with the ulna; but it may be found a little forwards or backwards. A vanety of this dislocation is inwards and upwards or bachwards; the coronoid process- of the ulna being thrust upwards above the inner condyle, and the head of the radius occupying the olecranon fossa. The ligaments and muscles suffer some injury, and the ulnar nerve is peculiarly liable to contusion between the olecranon and inner condyle. (4.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna forwards was considered impossible without a fracture of the olecranon, this opinion having been taught by Sir A. Cooper and Vidal (De Cassis) ; but Monin, Prior, Velpeau, Canton, and Denuce have each reported one example—five in number. The structural condition of this dislocation requires further elucidation. In Velpeau's case, the head of the radius rested in the coronoid fossa, and the olecranon was carried upwards and a little outwards; whereas in Mr. Canton's case, as depicted in Hamil- ton's work, the olecranon rested, apparently, on its summit against the forepart of the articular surface of the humerus, and the head of the radius was free lower down in the smaller sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; thus constituting a complete dislocation of both bones forwards. (5.) Dislocation of the ulna alone, backwards, seldom happens with- ' out some dislocation of the head of the radius ; yet it is possible that the coronoid process may pass backwards into the olecranon fossa. (A. Cooper.) In one recorded dissection of such dislocation, observes Professor Pirrie, the coronary, oblique, and part of the interosseous ligaments were torn; the brachialis muscle was stretched under the humerus, and the triceps much relaxed. (6.) Dislocation of the head of the radius alone, backwards.—This I dislocation is of rare occurrence, only twenty-eight supposed ex- I amples having been collected. One only had been verified by dissec- 1 tion, and this is reported by Sir A. Cooper. The head of the radius ■ was behind the external condyle of the humerus, and rather to the (outer side. The coronary ligament was torn through at its forepart, i and the oblique had given way. The capsular ligament was partially 1 torn, and the head would have receded much more, but it was sup- 1 ported by the aponeurotic fascia. But I may add the following ! specimen. (Pig- 356.) The bicipital tuberosity lies close to the iTinoccupied lesser sigmoid notch. The orbicular ligament still en- ♦ " British and Foreign Med.-Chir. Eeview," Jan., 1866. t Guy's Hosp. Mus., 1306.