SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 428 that paralysis was suddenly produced, partially or completely; and this state may continue for an indefinite period. The special senses are variously affected; loss of sight, smell, hearing, and taste; or, more rarely, exaltation or perversion of these functions have occurred. Hasmorrhage fi-om the mouth, nose, or ears sometimes happens; and abortion in some cases. A remarkable effect is said to be produced occasionally; the formation of an image, as if photographic, of neigh- bouring objects on the body, even on parts covered with clothes. Every degree of hum may be produced, and perhaps in the same person, from the shghtest singeing of the hair, reddening or blistering of the skin, to the deepest charring. The course of lightning through the body is sometimes marked by reddish-brown lines on the surface, having a starred and radiated appearance. In any case, the clothes are more or less rent and burnt. Other incidental injuries have been found, but rarely; such as wound, or-fracture, particularly of the skull. The tongue was mutilated in four out of six cases of injury recorded by M. Bondin. The prognosis, guided by the same considerations as with regard to Burns, is generally more favourable respecting the local lesion, which is often comparatively trivial, and also in respect to shock. But the subsequent paralysis or other functional disturbance may be a specially unfavourable condition, as consequent on a stroke of lightning not immediately fatal. Some persons seem to have premonitory symptoms of the approach of a thunderstorm. One such individual, within my own knowledge, a remarkably robust young man, is invariably troubled with extreme nervousness, headache, and an indescribable dread, compelling him to go to bed some hours before any apparent approach of a storm. How far this might be an unfavourable state of the nervous system is unknown. After death by lightning, certain appearances are worthy of notice. The attitude of the body may be that in which it was when struck, or the body may be thrown to some distance from the spot. Rigor mortis, occasionally absent, is commonly present, and well marked, or even to an intense degree of rigidity, resembling the condition of a person frozen to death. The blood, sometimes coagulated, is usually singularly fluid, and continues in this state. Decomposition is some- times speedy, but often delayed. The clothes are generally bui-nt or rent, even when the body is intact. The Treatment of suspended animation from a stroke of lightning consists in artificial respiration, with warmth and stimulants to restore the circulation. Frost-Bite.—Cold, intense ot long continued, produces effects analagous to those of heat. It may kill the part directly, a local destruction analagous to charring, and accompanied with depression of the nervous and vascular systems, analogous to shock; or the part dies by the speedy supervention of gangrenous inflammation, a process of destruction accompanied with inflammatory reaction as the constitu- tional disturbance. Unlike heat, cold more frequently kills by its direct operation; presenting,the condition known as frost-bite. This local effect, moreover, frequently exceeds in importance the general depression of the system. The parts most liable to be frozen are the feet and hands, or the ears and end of the nose, which are most pro- minent and exposed to cold. But the cold which can be borne with