233, SCROFULA. scrofulous nature form in their bosoms, confined in most cases to a single tumour in one breast; but in one case two existed in one breast, and one in tlie otber. They are entirely unattended with pain, are distinctly circumscribed, are very smooth on their surfaces, and scarcely tender to pressure. They are very indolent, but vary with the state of the constitution, diminishing as it improves, and increasing as the general health is deteriorating. They can only be distinguished from simple chronic inflammation of the breast, by the absence of tender- ness, and by the existence of other diseases of a similar kind in the absorbent glands of other parts of the body. They produce no danger- ous effects, and do not degenerate into malignancy. Lastly, a peculiar enlargement of the testicle, or rather, of the epididymis, is worthy of special notice among the local manifestations of scrofula; and it particularly exhibits the usual characters of stealthi- ness and slow development. A small nodule, consisting of yellow friable matter deposited within the tubules or ducts, appears generally at one end of the epididymis; little pain or tenderness attends this structural change, and it may progress without complaint. Another and another such nodule forms on the 'surface of the testis, but generally connected with the epididymis, which becomes beset with three or four small tumours. Thus the testicle itself feels enlarged and irregular at an early stage of this disease. It has been stated by Mr. Curling, that scrofulous matter is also deposited within the body of the testis, in the form of pearly or greyish bodies, of the shape and size of millet-seeds—i.e., grey granular tuber- cles, which I suppose this description denotes. That these tubercles have a linear arrangement, like strung beads, less abundant and less regular in the anterior part of the organ than towards the rete-testis, where they are closely set, and sometimes confluent; and that they undergo transformation into a yellow friable cheesy substance, which at a later period softens, and is often broken up into a curdy j^urulent fluid, the gland-structure being absorbed to give place to this tuber- culous matter. But, if tubercles are deposited within the testicle itself, this structural change signifies little in reference to the diagnosis of this disease, for the testis is often masked by small local effusions of fluid in the tunica vaginalis, the surfaces of which are partially adherent. Now, the epididymis may remain nodose for many months ; the nodules quiescent, or enlarging very slowly, and becoming j^ainful. At length one declares itself more than the rest, attaches itself to the skin, which then assumes a purplish discolouration, ulcerates, and dis- charges a curdy purulent matter—the substance of the nodule. Other nodules undergo successively this process of disintegration, softening, and evacuation; but, unlike healthy abscesses, they do not heal. Fis- tulous openings obstinately continue to exude a mixed discharge—now curdy, now serous, now seminal; and in this advanced stage of the disease,^ destruction of more or less of the gland-substance is inevitable. According to Sir B. Brodie's observations, occasionally one testis is completely disorganized; more frequently the organ is only partially destroyed, and a considerable portion of the glandular structure re- mains unimpaired. Sometimes the disease is confined to one testicle; sometimes both arc similarly involved. By this process of disorganization and protracted discharge the