GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 160 section, a peculiar arrangement of the fibrous stroma, and a semi-trans- parent watery glossiness, with other characters, not unlike those which the section of a kidney presents; whence its name. (Recamier.) " Fas- ciculate" cancer is another variety suggested by the peculiar appearance of its fibrous structure. (Miiller.) The co-existence of softness, and linear or fibrillar arrangement, constitutes its most readily ascertainable peculiarity. (Walshe.) "Heematoid" cancer is a modification of en- cephaloid, in which the brain-like character is associated with an unusual amount of vascularity, the vessels sometimes interlacing so as to constitute a dense and somewhat spongy network, without, however, the peculiar structure of erectile tissue. "Fungus hsematodes" is rather an. advanced stage of cncephaloid, than a variety of this species of can- cer. It represents the occurrence of interstitial haemorrhage, which either infiltrates the whole mass, or forms irregular accumulations of blood in its substance; and ulceration of the integuments taking place, a fungoid bleeding growth protrudes. "Villous" cancer is a term somewhat expressing the appearance presented by this form of encepha- loid. It is very vascular, and apt to bleed copiously. This and its other characters are well marked when the disease occurs on the mucous membrane of the urinary bladder. It is described by Rokitansky as "dendritic vegetation;" an excrescence consisting, in its stem, of a fibroid membranous structure, on which the branches and villous flocculi are borne, as larger and smaller pouch-like and flask-shaped buddings, or sproutings of a structureless hollow tissue. " Melanotic," or mela- noid cancer, is, with very rare exceptions, medullary cancer modified by the presence of black pigment in its elemental structures. This is a species of degeneration; besides which, encephaloid is subject to fatty and calcareous degenerations. Other morbid changes are suppuration and sloughing, which it is very liable to undergo. The varieties of Scirrhus are—so-called " Chondroid " cancer, which is an early stage of scirrhus, dense and crisp; exhibiting, on sec- tion, an unusually shining aspect, and bluish-white colour. (Recamier.) " Lardaceous" cancer is occasioned by the infiltration of scirrhus through the substance of an organ, which then frequently appears not unlike the boiled rind of bacon. "Napiform " cancer is so named from the peculiar arrangement of its fibrous stroma, which, on section, has some similarity to a cut turnip. (Recamier.) "Apinoid" cancer derives its name from the striking resemblance presented, on section, to the cut surface of an unripe pear. This similitude arises from the dissemination of comparatively opaque and almost buff-coloured spots through a translucent ground of very pale yellowish-hlac tint. The quantity of more opaque substance gradually increases, and eventually predominates, so as to alter the appearance of the surface completely. (Walshe.) Allied, is the " reticular " cancer of Miiller. "Hsematoid" scirrhus is a condition of rare occurrence; but when it does happen, its peculiarities are of the same kind as those of the hsematoid variety of encephaloid; differing only in being less fully developed. (Walshe.) "Osteoid" cancer, or ossifying fungus growth (Miiller), occurs as a tumour, consisting chiefly of bone, but having on its surface, and in the interstices of its osseous parts, an unossified fibrous constituent, as firm as fibrous cartilage ; after a time, similar growths ensue in parts distant from the seat of the first formed, and not on bones alone, bnt also in the cellular tissue, serous membranes, the langs, lymphatics, etc. It