299 PYAEMIA. Instead of this typical and marked form of infection, an irregular and less pronounced manifestation of the disease is not uncommon. The wound may have undergone no morbid change, remaining in a state of healthy suppuration; no rigors, or pyemic shudder, may have announced the attack; but there is an insidiously increasing rapidity of pulse, and pungent heat of skin, alternated by sweats, with utter prostration, and thus the patient sinks. " The life of all his blood Is toucliecl corruptibly; and tlie piu-e brain (Which some suppose the soul's frail dwelling-house) Doth, by the idle comments that it makes, Foretell the ending of mortality." Pycemia is not always fatal. Sedillot and Vidal have recorded cases of recovery. Nelaton dissents, and afl&rms that death is inevit- able. It takes place usually about the tenth day; sometimes earlier, as the third day; or, much later—six or seven weeks. According to the duration of the disease, pycemia may be designated acute or chronic. Secondary abscesses.—Post-mortem examination reveals numerous abscesses in one or more organs and textures of the body; and they are not inaptly termed secondary, when subsequent to an abscess, or at least to suppuration, in some other part. Secondary abscesses most fi'equently occur in the lungs and liver. Their general characters are these:—In several portions of the organ affected, black blood has accumulated; such portions are indurated, brittle and easily break down under slight pressure of the finger; the texture is congested and disintegrated, forming the red infarctions so named by continental pathologists. Some of these disintegrated portions present a yellow spot of pus in the centre of the black mass, in other parts pus has altogether supplanted the blood and disintegrated textures; and these pus-deposits are tolerably circumscribed—in fact, abscesses are then formed, each surrounded with a dark margin of congested tex- ture. Mr. Lee states that the central spot of each affected portion at first consists of lymph, which gradually extends towards the circum- ference. If the disease continue, these spots suppurate, the affected portions having previously softened and disintegrated in the same order in which they were primarily sohdified. Secondary abscesses are usually of a small size, in the viscera varying from a pin's head to a walnut, very numerous, and of rapid formation, a few days sufl&cing for their development in many organs. Although most commonly found in the lungs and liver, other organs and tissues are not exempt. They occur elsewhere—approaching the following order of frequency— in the spleen, brain, kidneys, heart, skin, mucous membranes, within serous and synovial cavities, in the muscles and cellular tissue, and in the eye ; in the prostate (Gamgee). The diagnosis from primary abscess is twofold. It will be observed that the chosen seat of an ordinary or primary abscess—the cellular texture—is not the usual habitation of secondary abscesses; and usually there are no local symptoms—no pain, or functional derange- ment, although certain parts—as the lung, pleura, peritoneum, and intestinal canal—will not tolerate secondary abscesses without some local symptoms of disaffection. It may also come to pass that death ensues from coma, asphyxia, or from necrtemia as the result of further 1