GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 136 and glandular, proliferous cysts, the latter especially, render this pro- ceeding the more necessary. Cutaneous proliferous cysts also are more properly excised. The common scalp-wen, for example, in most instances ; and the operation in this case is very readily accomplished. An incision having been made extending down through the cyst, either half can be seized with forceps and easily turned out of its bed, the cellular connection offering very slight resistance. Erysipelas is apt to follow this simple operation, in old or debilitated subjects. It may, therefore, be advisable in such cases, to remove the contents of the cyst by puncture, or even to destroy the cyst by sloughing. If the fo rmer mode of treatment; the introduction of a probe through the small black point existing in most cases, will permit the contents to be squeezed out of the sac, which may then be made to heal from the bottom, by the substitution of a few threads as a seton. Or if it be desirable to induce sloughing of the cyst, this can be effected by intro- ducing a stick of caustic potash, and turning it about a few times, or by pencilling the skin over the tumour. In either way the cyst is laid open, when the slough separates, and heals from within. Nitric acid and other powerful irritants are useful for the same purpose. Fattt Tumour.—Structural Condition and Diagnostic Characters.— This growth is of soft, doughy consistence, defined or circumscribed, deeply and largely lobulated (Fig. 34), and freely movable; sometimes shifting from its original locality owing to the looseness of its connec- tion ; often attaining to a large size and great weight, even to fifty Fig. 34.* Tig. 35.t pounds ; usually subcutaneous, and probably situated somewhere about the trunk, posteriorly; and solitary. It has the composition and general structure of ordinary fat—i.e., fat-cells (Fig. 35), collected together, and imbedded in a fibrous mesh-work, more or less abundant, and resembling condensed cellular texture ; this, however, is continuous with a thin fibro-cellular capsule enclosing the tumour; prolongations of which, penetrating the mass, separate it into lobes, while, externally, the whole investment is loosely connected with surrounding parts. Blood-vessels, collected mostly at one point of the tumour, pass into its substance from the cellular capsule. A cavernous dilatation of the veins has often been noticed by Billroth. * Fatty tumour, rpmoved from under the tongue; half-size. (Listen.) t Structure of a flbro-fatty tumour.—a. Isolated cells, showing stellate crystals of margaric acid. (Bennett.)