609 UNUNITED FRACTUEE AND FALSE-JOINT. become tlae matrix of ossification. Hence, in this case, the introduction of foreign body here and there, around the false-joint, may have this result. The operation, originally proposed by Dieffenbach, can be readily accomplished, by cutting carefully down to the seat of fracture, and drilling holes in the fragments with Brainard's perforator or the Archimedean drill, taking care that the point does not slip to either side of the bone, into perhaps a large artery or nerve ; then introducing ivory pegs, foui*, five, six, or more, and driving them home with a mallet. The fracture, thus made compound, is reconverted into simple, by at once closing the incision with sutures, and lint-dressing. It may remain simple, but generally the wound reopens, with immense swelling around the part and profuse suppuration. Thence the peril, to limb and life, of this operation. The pegs must be forthwith extracted, leaving the fracture in a worse state than before ; thus rendering amputation perhaps unavoidable, and even sacrificing the life by the severe constitutional disturbance. If the wound remains tolerably quiescent, and consolidation of the fracture is found to have taken place after the lapse of a month or six weeks, the line of incision must be reopened by an incision and the pegs withdrawn, their ex- traction being very easily accomplished, owing to partial absorption or disintegration of the portions impacted in the bone. The wound may possibly again heal by primary union; or now run the course of granulation and free suppuration tediously to recovery, and with considerable impairment of the general health, consequent on the double operation and protracted process from first to last. Various authors bear testimony to "several" and "numerous" instances of perfectly successful results in their practice; but I am unable to find the particulars of such cases. For my own part, I have not hitherto experienced, nor witnessed, much of a satisfactory character in the results of this operation. In one case of false-joint of the humerus, at about the insertion of the deltoid muscle, I intro- duced four ivory pegs. That operation failed. I repeated it, and it caused such swelling and tension of the arm as to compel me to withdraw the pegs ; but the false joint remained nearly as movable as before this twice-performed operation. In another case, a false joint of the femur, about the junction of the lower and middle thirds, I saw the same operation performed; but it was not repeated, and the result was not moi'e efiiectual. (fZ) Complete false joint—the most irrecoverable structural con- dition—suggests the same operation as for the incomplete condition ; the introduction of ivory pegs, as foreign bodies, to induce ossification in the capsular ligament already existing as a matrix. But it should be thoroughly considered, whether the uncertainty of such reparation taking place, and the peril of the operation, are not advantageously counterbalanced by a condition of structure, which, although not that of united fracture, is yet a firm connection, and with which the limb is proportionately useful. Under these circumstances, it may be letter "to let well alone." Some form of supporting contrivance might perhaps be worn with advantage, in this and other conditions of Ununited Fracture, where other procedures have failed; or rather than run the risk of almost any operation. Disunited Fractuke is a parallel condition to Ununited Fracture. Union having taken place, and with firm osseous consolidation, a 2 R