SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 708 were situated near this joint. The pelvis, spine, skull, especially the antrum, and the humerus, are also seats of cancer. Signs, and Diagnosis.—(1.) Cancer in the sub- ttance of bone produces expansion and an osseous tumour; but the nature of this tumour can scarcely be recognized at first. The enclosed encephaloid cancer is much harder than when this disease affects the soft parts. At length, the enclosing shell of bone yields, and the mass declares itself at once, or very shortly, as the tumour, unrestrained, grovs^s more rapidly. The ordinary characters of an en- cephaloid tumour become apparent: its soft consist- ence, lobulated contour, and large size (Fig. 329); with purple discolouration of the skin, enlarged, ramifying veins, and pain throughout the course of the disease. Pulsation, of a thrilling or blowing character, may become perceptible, owing to enlarge- ment of the vessels in th^ tumour, as it undergoes development. Fracture often occurs at the affected part. Glandular swellings and constitutional symp- toms will confirm the diagnosis. (2.) Periosteal cancer presents a tumour of more clearly cancerous character, and it grows more rapidly, at an earlier period. The muscles attached to the bone often become extensively infiltrated with cancer-cells. Thus may Cancer in, or on, bone be recognized and distinguished from any other species of tumour. The diagnosis of malignant and non-malignant tumour of bone lies, however, principally between encephaloid cancer and enchondroma. Here the presence or absence, ultimately, of the signs which indicate an extension of the disease to the integument and neighbouring lymphatic glands, will mainly determine the question. Puncture with a grooved needle is also available as a critical method of examination, in this case, no less than in other doubtful forms of tumour. I was thus enabled to determine the nature of a tumour at the lower end of the femur, close to the knee-joint, which in point of consistence and lobulated appearance much resembled enchondroma. Amputation was performed, and the mass proved to be encephaloid. Pulsating encephaloid may be distinguished from aneurism by the expansive, heaving character of the latter, as compared with the thrill- ing vibration of the former. Treatment.—Excision will be appropriate only in cases of limited cancer-growth in, or on, bone, and when situated where the whole diseased portion can thus be removed. But under, apparently, the most favourable circumstances, the operation itself may prove most perilous. I once assisted my colleague, Mr. De Meric, in removing an apparently movable tumour, the size of a small orange, and situated over one of the mid-ribs. But this little mass sprang from the bone, the rib readily broke, and the welling up of blood from the tumour— an encephaloid cancer—was so profuse, that the patient nearly died on the spot. He sank in a few days from hosmorrhage into the pleura. Amputation must generally be resorted to. This operation should * " Trans. Path. Soc. Lond.," vol. xxii. Mr. H. Arnott's case.