SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 776 pennetim outwards, aided by the kjieo of the operator in the groiii. But the manijndative procedure which is adapted for a regular thyroid dislocation, will here also prove successful. Unkeduced Dislocations op the Rn\—Two mordhs wasi the period fixed by Sir A. Cooper, as the extreme period within which such dis- locations can or should be reduced. Increasing in difficulty and danger, as the opei-ation of reduction may be up to that time, it subsequently becomes extremely uncertain of accomplishment, and always perilous, owing to the liability of fracture or of abscess, from the straining injury to the soft textures. The former accident has occurred in the hands of some of the most able Surgeons ; fracture taking place usually in the neck of the femur or not far below the trochanters. Exceptional cases of successful reduction after a much longer period have more recently been recorded. Thus, two cases arc cited by Hamilton, both of six months' standing, and, it may be added, both dislocations on the dorsum ilii. At the end of ?ime months, Dr. A. W. Smith obtained a successful result, the patient having resumed his occupation as a ship- carpenter. In more rare instances, reduction has been accomplished— by Salicet, at the end of one year; by Liston, at the period of two years. The physiological consideration which, as a ride, should here, as in regard to all Dislocations, guide the Surgeon is, the degree of efficiency of the new joint; as indicating the practicability and safety of at- tempting reduction, and its utility when accomplished. After trying prolonged extension, it has been proposed, as the last resource, to attempt reduction by subcutaneous division of the capsule, or rather of the ilio-femoral ligament, followed by renewed extension or by manipu- lation. This method failed, however, in the hands of Hamilton, the only case apparently on record. Dislocation of the Hip, with Fracture of the Femur.—This complica- tion is undoubtedly possible, but very uncommon. Reduction of the dislocation would appear to be still more rare. The I'lde of irractice, however, should always be to attemjit reduction at the time of the accident. This may be accomplished, under the influence of chloro- form, simply by pressure on the head of the bone and with the requisite manipulation ; or by first setting the fractui'e and secui'ing it with lateral splints, in order to make use of the limb for extension in re- ducing the dislocation. Failing at the time of dislocation to effect reduction, union of the fracture must be allowed to take place, and then it should be again attempted. This resource proved successful in one case, a dislocation on the dorsum ilii, of five weeks' duration ; Mr. Badley being the operator. In another ease, a dislocation into the sciatic notch, reduction at the end of six weeks, as reported by Mr. Thornhill, appears to have been doubtful. It would seem that, probably, he refractured the bone; for the head of the femur is said to have resumed its place with a loud crash. Double Dislocation, i.e.,ot both hips, has been known to occur; and in different directions on the two sides, or with fracture of one femur. Congenital Dislocations of the Hip-joint have been met with, complete or incomplete. The former correspond very nearly in their directions with the regular dislocations of the hip, and with one of the anomalous varieties—upward dislocation, in which the head of the femur is placed outside the notch between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium. These dislocations seem to be more fi'cqucnt in females than in males,