PYAEMIA. 301 ' the lymphatics, laid open and exposed by meclianical injury, as by wounds, or rapid sloughing of the suppurating part; and that the pus thus produced within vessels, or introduced from without, possibly cir- culates with the blood, inducing secondary deposits. Si(,i}pwative Phlebitis.—Hunter originally observed, that "in all cases where inflammation of veins runs high, or extends itself con- siderably, it is to be expected that the whole system will be affected. For the most part, the same kind of affection takes place which arises fi'om other inflammations, with this exception, that where no adhesions of the sides of the vein are formed, or where such adhesions are incom- plete, pus, passing into the circulation, may add to the general dis- order, and even render it fatal." Nearly all subsequent observers confirmed Himter's theory of pyaemia as thus indicated; that suppurative phlebitis having occurred, the entry of ims into the circulation is the immediate cause of systemic infection. Cruveilhier came to the conclusion that pus is transmitted from the veins in which it is formed; and his observations of the stages of suppurative phlebitis seemed to establish two facts. Firstly, when pus produced within a vein is excluded from the general circulation, as by a barrier of coagulated blood, or by adhesion and obliteration of the vein, no symptoms of pyeemia ensue; secondly, when the obstruc- tion is removed, the symptoms of pytemia immediately commence. The unavoidable inference is, that pus is carried from within the suppu- rating vein into the general circulation. It would appear that pus is first formed, not between the vein and the clot, but in the very centre of the coagulum, which soon blocks up an inflamed vein. The symptoms of pygemia do not arise then. But the proportion of coagulum diminishes, while that of the pus increases, and this may take place here and there in the course of the vein, as the inflammation is more or less advanced, thus presenting adhesive, alter- nating with suppurative, phlebitis. Usually, adhesion limits and cir- cmnscribes the suppuration; and then, also, the general mass of blood, in circulation, remains uncontaminated. In a more advanced stage, the distended vein becomes knotty at the various parts where pus has accumulated; the vessel bursts, and partly discharges such matter into the adjoining cellular texture, forming abscesses; but, when the dyke made by the clots is broken dozvn, being removed by absorption, pus is transmitted into the circulation, and then pya)mic symptoms imme- diately commence, announced by violent rigors, and soon proceed to a fatal termination. This interpretation of pyaemia, as the consequence of suppurative phlebitis, was supported, apparently, by the observations of most pathologists, British and foreign; and whose writings were specially I referred to in the former edition of this work. ! Others have denied the possibility of pus entering the circulation i under the ordinary circumstances of suppurative phlebitis. Tessier I alleges that at all stages of venous inflammation the pus is enclosed in I the cavity of the vein by clots or false membranes, and that at no period of the anatomico-pathological existence of phlebitis, is its entrance into the blood possible. Mr. Lee appeals to the results of ' experiments on blood out of the body. He urges that the simple 1 experiment of mixing some pus with healthy, recently drawn blood, will ) at once show that such a combination cannot circulate in the livin""