796 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. joint with tincture of iodine has been much employed by Velpeau, i Jobert, and Bonnet. The tincture is diluted with two or three parts J > of water. A small trocar is introduced into the joint, a portion of .fl6i the serous fluid let out, and a corresponding quantity of the iodine T solution thrown in, and after being left for a few minutes, according to the degree of pain excited, it is allowed to escape, and the puncture carefully closed with a pad of lint, secured by strips of adhesive plaster. The joint may be bandaged, but compression should be • removed, if pain be induced. After the operation, the joint fills again with serous effusion, so as to be even larger and more fluctuating than ] before, and somewhat painful; but in about a week, absorption pro- ' ceeds slowly to recovery. On the other hand, very disastrous conse- : quences have ensued: purulent synovitis, with destruction of the joint, and pyaamia; or anchyolosis, as a less unfavourable result. Considering the danger to limb and life consequent on injection, and the more harmless although persistent nature of hydrops articuli, the Surgeon may well pause before having recourse to this procedure. The precautions necessary are—a very chronic, passive state of effusion; and that no air should enter the joint, either from the syringe, .or in withdrawing the canula and closing the puncture. Constitutional treatment, by the influence of iodide of potassium and cinchona bark, cascarilla, or other tonics, will aid these local measures. In hydrops articuli, the fluid has, I believe, been removed by the aspii'ator, whether without return may be doubtful. Sujpfuration and abscess, in the interior of a joint, should be met i i promptly, by evacuation of the matter. The presence of pus having ' ; been first assuredly ascertained by puncturing the joint with a grooved needle, an opening with a bistoury should be made forthwith, freely, j ] and in a dependent situation. This proceeding was, I believe, origin- J , ally advocated by Mr. Gray, and it has been sanctioned by subsequent 1 , experience. Perfect rest of the joint must then be secured by splints, and the limb placed in the position most convenient for use, in the event of anchylosis. A suitable kind of anchylosis having been attained, fibrous or osseous, according to the use of the limb, it will . be unnecessary to have recourse to further operative interference, by ; excision or amputation. Constitutional treatinent consists in the tonic and medicinal resources and supporting regimen requisite to i sustain the exhaustion of hectic. Chronic Rheumatic Stnovitis, or Chronic Rheitmatic Arthritis.— Structural Gondition.—This inflammatory disease involves other joint- textures besides the synovial membrane; but that is the texture firet affected. Sir B. Brodie, Cruveilhier, and Dr. R. Adams alike concur . in this view of the structural origin of the above-named disease. Hence, the term synovitis seems preferable to that of arthritis, proposed by Dr. Adams; the etymological signification of the latter term including | inflammation of any or all the structures of a joint (apdpov, a joint). ^ Billroth refers the origin of the disease, generally, to the articular cartilages, which undergo a fibrous or filamentous degeneration; and Mr. Barwell locates the initial change in the bone, as a rheumatic ostitis. Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis differs only from ordinary Chronic Synovitis in certain particulars as to its pathology and treatment, which are, however, worthy of separate notice. The inflammation of the synovial membrane seems to affect the vascular fringe-like pro-