SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. altered position of the limb. Lirjavientous union usually takes place in transverse fracture; witli rare exceptions, where osseous union may occur, nearly complete contact having been maintained. Union by liga- ment will form even when separation of the fragments extends to°an inch and a half; beyond this distance, thickened aponeurotic fascia serves as the only bond of connection. Thus the fragments may remain severed to an extent of four or five inches, and often become enlarged. (Fig. 270.) Osseous union, apparently, takes place more frequently in longitudinal and in comminuted fractures of the patella,, the fragments remaining in apposition. Hamilton has recorded two such cases: one of longitudinal fracture across one corner of the- patella ; and the other, a transverse fracture near the middle of the patella, with a longitudinal fracture near its inner margin, constituting a comminuted fracture. Sir A. Cooper also succeeded in obtaining bony union in some longitudinal fractures. The proof of this mode of union having occurred in these cases, and in my own experience, has rested on two facts: permanent apposition of the fragments, without any increased separation taking place eventually, as after ligamentous union ; and the absence of any mobility between them. Specimens of bony union, in fracture of the patella, would be more conclusive evi- dence ; and this is supplied by a specimen of such union after trans- verse fracture, marked E. A. (594), in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin. Incomplete ossific union had taken place in the preparation figured p. G60. Necrosis of the patella may ensue, after transverse fracture with ligamentous union; owing apparently to defi- cient vascular supply to the fragment affected. Treatment.—Position of the limb, so as, by relaxation of the quad- riceps extensor muscle, to bring the fragments into close apposition, is the guiding rule of treatment. The limb should be extended, and flexed on the abdomen, until the fragments would naturally fall into apposition, and this position maintained by a sufiiciently elevated inclined plane on which the limb rests, and which is provided with a foot-piece. Any swelling or distension of the synovial capsule—any synovitis, consequent on the injury, having subsided, aided by an evaporating lotion, the fragments can then be brought into absolute contact. When,, therefore, the swelling has diminished in the course of three or four days, during which period no reparation could have commenced, the fragments may be readily, and painlessly, retained in position by the application of a bandage immediately above and below them, encircling the limb and splint in a slightly figure-of-8 form, and tied together at the sides. This sjalinfc may be furnished with a hook above and be- low the popliteal space, to catch the turns of the bandage, and thus bring further pressure to bear upon the frag- ments. (Fig- 271.) Sometimes the addi- tional security of a compress, or a semilunar cap of gutta-percha, just above the upper fragment may be necessary, with a counter-cap below the lower frag-