700 SPECLVL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 321.» ing without fracture, ensues, according to the extent of the disease. When softening is limited to the interned part of the bones affected, leaving an outer shell of hard bone, fracture is liable to occur; in one case, related by Tyrrell, twenty-two fractures happened; in another, by Arnott, thirty-one fractures. When the disease in- volves the whole ihichness of the bones, they become bent in various forms, and to an extreme degree ^ presenting the most remarkable and frightful deformities. (Fig. 321.) Mollities ossium and Rickets have some structural characters in common; the marked diminution of earthy matter, and rarefaction of the osseous texture; both diseases also affect more or less the osseous system generally. But the gelati- nous matter is peculiar to molHties ossium. In respect of its fatty character, the disease has some afl&nity to fatty dcgenei-ation ; while, in virtue of the nuclear and nucle- ated cells, a few of which may be caudate-shaped, there would appear to be some alliance to the structural elements of Cancer. As compared with senile atrophy of bone, mollities ossium is distinguished by the softness of the osseous texture, as well as by the medullary canal being filled with the peculiar gelatinous substance, and which also occupies the j)lace of the compact walls of the bone, now reduced perhaps to a mere shell. Otherwise, the thin bony case resulting from senile atrophy so far resembles, and might be mistaken for, the atrophy which accompanies mollities ossium. Signs and Symptoms.—Certain premonitory symptoms usually pre- cede fracture or deformity from mollities ossium. Wandering pains in the affected bones are experienced, and of a rheumatic character, but more severe and persistent. Marked failure of the general health accompanies these osseous pains; while great exhaustion and some emaciation precede any perceptible change in the bones. Then a fracture here or there, and progressive deformity, leave scarcely any doubt as to the nature of the disease. Diagnosis.—From Rheumatism, it is at once diagnosed by these manifestations of morbid osseous condition; from Cancer, by the very general distribution of the disease, affecting more or less the whole osseous system, and by the deformity. Thus, according to Litzmaun, in 85 child-bearing women, the whole skeleton was affected in 6 cases, and all the bones except those of the head in 2; and in 4G other cases, all parts of the skeleton were diseased in 21, and all the bones except those of the head in 6. From Hickets, as well as other diseases, Mollities Ossium may be distinguished by another symptom. The state of the urine is peculiar. It contains a great abundance of earthy * " Med.-Cliir. Trans.," vol. xxvii. Mr. Solly's case.