PYEMIA. 305 arrested and impacted in the pulmonic capillaries, or in tlio portal capillaries of the liver (Fig. 81), thus, and there forming metastatic deposits. To this pro- Ficf. 81 * cess of fibrin-trans- ference, and impacted state of the vessels, Virchow gave the name of Emholism ; while any such im- pactedblood-clot,thus transferred, is named an emholus or embolon. But disintegrated fibrin, as derived from the breaking down of a throm- bus, consists of granular matter, and not of cells; however much, there- fore, this material may resemble pus in its physical characters of yellow- ish-opaque colour, and milky or creamy consistence, it is not a purulent fluid, although puriform. Moreover, as Virchow has shown, a similar process of fibrin-transference and embolism may take place in the arterial system; from fibrinous coagulum having formed in the heart, or thrombosis in an artery; and which, therefore, must be quite inde- pendent of any phlebitis, suppurative or otherwise. Billroth qualifies Virchow's theory of fibrin-transference, by the apparent fact that a thi'ombus may be actually converted into pus, in vii'tue of the con- tained white blood-cells, just as pus is formed from cells wandering, out of the vessels. When also a disintegrating thrombus has imbibed any purulent, or perhaps putrid matter, as from an adjoining wound, embolic fragments carry with them such matter, and thus generate metastatic abscesses. In this way—if the matter be putrescent—there will be a combination of septiceemia with the pytemia, properly so called. Leucocytosis signifies an increased quantity of the pale corpuscles in the blood, which having a close structural resemblance to, or identity with, pus-corpuscles, it becomes impossible to recognize pygemia as pus in the blood. Dr. Hughes Bennett, who originally discovered this white- celled blood, described it as suppuration of the blood. Leucocytosis may arise from any local irritation of the lymphatic glands and vessels. Ichorrhcemia or Septicoimia denotes that infection of the blood which proceeds from the absorption of ichorous or putrescent animal matter; whether generated in a wound, or inoculated. SepticEemia has more recently been investigated experimentally by Weber of Bonn, and Polli of Milan; animals having been subjected to septic blood-poisoning by the injection of putrescent animal matters into their circulation. The latter observer regards septicemia as a true fermentation of the blood, induced by the action of living oi'gan- isms, as bacteria and vibriones. Sulphites of the alkalies, or alkaline earths, seem to have a safely prophylactic influence, in being anti- fermentative, without having any poisonous or corrosive action. (3.) Miasma.—The production of what appears to be pyeemic infec- tion is sometimes referred to the importation of germs or minute living organisms, dried pus dust, or other organic matter, emanating from wounds. This view is suggested by the fact that pyoamia com- monly arises in Hospitals when and where many wounded patients lie crowded together, and in close wards; aggregation and deficient ven- * Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—A drawing. X