306 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tilatioii seeming to develop, as well as facilitate, the transmission of the contagious matter in the atmosphere. On the other hand, in wards not crowded, and freely ventilated, although occupied with wounded patients, i^yaomia is uncommon. According to Liicke's observations, blue-coloured pus abounds with organic germs, which are infective to other wounds; and this colour is not inherent in the pus as it comes from a granulating surface, but is developed in the absorbent lint or other dressing. ^ Bilh'oth, among other clinical observers, advocates the miasmatic origin of pyajmia; and I must confess that my own experience entirely accords in its probability, although not as the only mode of causation. At the Royal Free Hospital, under the favourable hygienic conditions of space and ventilation, coiipled with yearly removation of the wards, weekly scrubbing of the floors, frequent change of the bedding and Unen, and scrupulous cleanliness in the dressings of wounds, without any employment of sponges as a medium of inter-communication, pya3mia very rarely occurs. Regarded as the offspring of the contrary adverse conditions of hygiene, pyasmic infection is associated with other diseases of blood-poisoning, which together have sometimes received the name of "Hospitalism." This position is, however, the subject of much disputation. As the general outcome of a long dis- cussion at the Clinical Society of London, 1874, the question having been raised by an able address from the president, Mr. Prescott Hewett, it would appear that pyaemia is relatively as frequent after operations in private as in hospital practice; but this estimate was gathered more from the impressions of experience than from any sufl&ciently large collection of authentic cases, compared with those in Hospitals. For my own part, I cannot accord much weight to any such comparison; external circumstances alone being considered, while the influence of individual predisposition is necessarily unknown. As in the production of other blood-diseases, the development of pyaamic infection depends not only upon the seed sown, but also, and perhaps principally, upon the nature of the soil in which it is implanted; and respecting this element in the estimate, we are altogether ignorant. Formation of Secondary Abscesses.—The mode of production of secondary abscesses, in various and remote organs and parts of the body, in consequence of purulent infection of the blood, is doubtful. It may be by the arrest, and actual deposition, of pus in the capillaries of the parts affected, conveyed there through the circulation—the theory originally entertained; or, that the arrest of pus, or of dis- integrated fibrin, in these vessels, induces suppurative inflammation— phlebitis—of the smaller veins, as suggested by Cruveilhier. Causes.—(1.) Predisposing.—Certain causes appear to favour the production of blood-poisoning, whether pysemic or septica3mic. They are all of an enfeebling character, and are referable to the consti- tutional condition, habits, and hygienic circumstances of the individual infected. Thus may be enumerated, exhaustion, consequent on pro- longed illness, and especially from blood-diseases, as typhoid fever, or in certain organic diseases, as degeneration of the kidneys vfdth albuminuria, and phthisis ; or exhaustion, increased by the shock of injury or surgical operation, as' from compound fracture or amputa- tion ; mental depression also is another such predisposing condition; while parturition, when diihcult or tedious, induces a peculiar liabihty.