GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 98 Taking this list of remedial agents, some are of the most opposite character, but they may all be used appropriately, in the course of inflammation generally, and in the order enumerated. Best.—This element of remedial treatment has a most important relation, local and constitutional. Rest of the part undergoing inflam- mation will tend to arrest that process, by suspending the exercise of function, and the consequent nutritive changes, in the part thus afEected; rest of body and mind is restorative, by suspending, in some degree, the functional activity of the nervous, the muscular, and the vascular systems, which are principally engaged in febrile disturbance, and the excitement of which reacts unfavourably on the inflamed part. Thus, an inflamed hand should be kept at rest by placing it in a sling, or supported on a pillow, or more absolute rest may be secured by the mechanical contrivance of a splint; while the repose of recumbency on a couch, the cessation of any mental exer- tion or emotional excitement, and the exclusion of talkative friends, of noise and light, or other impression on the senses—in short, of every source of disturbance to the patient—constitute that general quietude which will be most favourable to recovery. Gold is more efiicacious in the early treatment of inflammation, and as affecting external parts of the body. It may be applied, according to the degree of cold required, by means of cold water or ice, or by an evaporating lotion of spirits of wine and water in various proportions. Lead lotion—the liquor plumbi diacetatis, a drachm or more to eight ounces of water—is another refrigerant, but far less serviceable. The application of cold externally will even reach an internal organ, as the brain in meningitis, through the interposed scalp and cranium; but in all such cases the more intense cold of pounded ice in a bladder is necessary to produce a beneficial effect. Esmarch uses an india-rubber bag, which certainly looks better in private practice. To some internal organs cold can be applied directly, as to the stomach in gastritis, by swallowing bits of ice. The leading fact to be observed in every case is, that refrigeration should be continuous and uniform. This twofold requirement is best fulfilled by some form of self-acting irrigator. A skein of cotton pen- dant from a bottle of cold water suspended over the part will supply a constant dribbling stream, and thus answer the purpose very well. Its efficiency is witnessed in preventing or arresting inflammation of the large joints. Heat, moderate, with moisture, is preferable in those cases where cold is uncomfortable to the part, or occasions any shivering sensation. Moist warmth is more advantageous also when inflammation is esta- blished, the efficacy of cold as a textnral depressor being restricted rather to incipient inflammation. Warmth and moisture are con- veniently applied in the shape of a light, soft bread-and-water or linseed-meal poultice ; or by means of spongio-piline soaked in warm water. The latter surpasses any kind of poultice, which is apt to dry, thus becoming an irritant, and is uncleanly. Spongio-piliue is even more retentive of moisture than an equal substance of flannel, and more suitable, therefore, as an epithem. Blood-letting locally is advantageous whenever it appears desirable to make a sudden, considerable, and direct impression on an inflamed part, as the eye in iritis. Leeches, scarificatiou, or cupping are avail-