GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 198 Fibrous degeneration, or induration of yjarenchymatous organs, takes place at the expense of tlieir proper structure, which atrophies and partially disappears. (4.) Amyloid, waxy or lardaceous degeneration, is probably allied to, if not a variety of, the fibrous degeneration. The texture affected acquires considerable firmness and density, is somewhat transparent, and of a yellow or yellowish-brown colour, which in many cases con- trasts with the colour of the original texture. The cut surface is not unlike that of firm bacon. Thus, the liver, the kidney, or the spleen, having acquired these characters, is then said to be in a state of waxy degeneration. The essential structure of the tissue or organ atro- phies ;—the secreting cells of the liver or kidney, and its malpighian bodies, wither; at the same time these cells present a remarkably pale and transparent appearance, as they become insignificant. The cor- puscles of the spleen, both in its parenchyma and in its malpighian bodies, shrivel, and have also a similar appearance. Amyloid degeneration is apparently due to interstitial exudation- matter. This material is unorganized; it is itself tran.slucent, but presents a dull surface, at first of a greyish tint, afterwards perfectly colourless; it belongs to the albuminoid group of organic chemical compounds, but its precise composition and chemical relations are unknown. If deposited in a free state, amyloid matter appears in the form of " coi-pora amylacea," bodies which are concentrically laminated, like starch-granules; as found sometimes in the nerve-centres. Pure amyloid matter assumes a blue colour by the action of iodine ; and this fact, first observed by Virchow,* led him to conclude that the waxy material in question was similar to starch, and therefore hydro-car- bonaceous. He accordingly named it " animal amyloid." Meckel regards the amyloid matter as fatty, and especially cholesterine; he therefore retains the name, lardaceous or cholesterine disease: but Friedreich and Kekule f have ascertained that the composition of the purest amyloid matter obtained from the spleen closely resembles that of the albuminous principles; and this conclusion is confirmed by the independent analysis of Schmidt. J Yet the chemical reaction of amy- loid being unlike that of albuminous matter, the material itself is so far peculiar. Ordinary albuminous matter is rendered yellow by iodine; and this reaction explains the different shades of colour produced, when a texture is submitted to the influence of iodine,—as a test for amyloid degenera- tion. The blue and yellow colours present the resultant colour—green; its shade, however, varying with the different proportions of the nor- mal albuminous and amyloid matters. Thus, there are cases, observes Virchow, Avhere throughout the whole extent of the digestive tract, from mouth to anus, the small arteries of the mucous membrane are affected with amyloid degeneration. The intestines are pale grey, translucent, and may have a slightly waxy appearance. Apart from microscopic examination, the nature of this change might not be dis- cerned. But the iodine test supplies a ready method of detection. Brush a little iodine upon such mucous membrane, and a number of densely aggregated yellowish or brownish-red spots are soon seen to * "Archiv f. Path Anat.," Bd. vi. s. 13.5, 268, and 416. t Iljid., Bd. xvi. s. 50. X " Annal. d. Chemie und Pharmacie," Bd. ex. s. 250.