GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 294 cially, or the trunk, the clanger is greater than when either limb is the seat of the infiammation; although the destructive character of phlegmonous erysipelas, in, the course of suppuration and sloughing, may prove fatal by exhaustion. Treatment.—Preventive measures must have reference to the causes of this disease. Its propagation by infection suggests the prompt isola- tion of any person having erysipelas—as the source of infection, free ventilation of the apartment, and the separate use of any bedding or other infected article, which might act as a fomes in carrying the disease to other patients. Dry-scrubbing instead of washing the floor of the bedroom or ward, has already been, alluded to as a safe-guard; evaporation favouring, apparently, the dissemination of the infected atmosphere. Cleanliness with regard to the dressings used for other patients, and on the part of the nurses, is an obvious injunction. With all these precautions, a nurse or the practitioner himself may yet be the medium of communicating the disease. Disinfectants, such as chlorine vapour, or chlorinated solutions, permanganate of potash, and carbolic acid lotions, have more or less influence in purifying a con- taminated atmosphere, or in guarding the wounds of patients who may be exposed to its operation. These preventive measures are less urgent with reference to erysipelas of traumatic origin. Predisposing causes, pertaining as they mostly do to the previous health of the individual, scarcely admit of prevention. They suggest, however, the greater protection of persons thus liable to infection. Such are persons whose blood has been depi'aved, and circulation en- feebled, by previous habits of intemperance, and by the wear and tear of a laborious, anxious life. Albuminuria is peculiarly inviting to erysipelas. Diabetic patients also are said to be liable. Remedial treatment—so-called—is a misnomer; for, like all in- fectious diseases, erysipelas runs a certain natural course, and the only power of art is to avert any unfavourable tendency. It is probable that a blood-poison is undergoing elimination from the system, through the great secreting surfaces—the skin, thus inducing the inflammation, and the mucous membranes. Consequently, the bowels having been evacuated by a mercurial and rhubarb or colocynth pill; a saline aperient, diuretic and diaphoretic mixture, may then be given with advantage for some days. Thus, the sulphate of magnesia, with nitrate of potash and small doses of tartarized antimony, seem to pro- mote elimination. The acetate or carbonate of ammonia, in camphor mixture, will be more si^ecially diaphox-etic. Bicarbonate of potash, in large doses, say half a drachm, has sometimes appeared to me to fulfil a special purpose, that of neutralizing the blood-poison, whatever it be. Erysipelas is, I think, thus allied to rheumatism or rheumatic gout, to erythema and urticaria; in all of which diseases potash has some peculiar remedial influence. And in harmony with their thera- peutic afl&nity, I have observed clinically, that the same individuals are not unfrequently subject to each of these diseases. A dusky yellow hue of the skin, and slight yellowness of the conjunctiva, with perhaps nausea and oppression of the stomach, arc often present in erysipelas. This condition, verging on jaundice, is best overcome by the repeated administration of calomel or blue pill, to restore tlin secretion of bile. A blister over the region of the liver is also. I