439 KUPTURE OF MUSCLE AND TENDON. MUSCLES AND TENDONS. CHAPTER XXII. SPRAIN.—RUPTURE.—TUMOURS. Sprains or Strains.—Structural Condition, and Symptoms.—Muscular and tendinous structures are liable to be suddenly stretcbed by violence, without any actual or perceptible rupture of fibre. This lesion com- monly takes place in those muscles which are most apt to be brought into action by any sudden and violent exertion, as in running, leaping, dancing, or lifting a weight. Immediate pain and inability to use the jDart, followed by stiffness, are conclusive symptoms. Any degenerative change, or softening of the structure, vrill predispose to this kind of injury. It may be succeeded by atrophy and partial paralysis. Treatment.—Rest is necessary for reparation, and this requisite is secured by the renewal of pain from any attempt to use the damaged muscle or tendon. Subsequently, friction and stimulant embrocations aid in overcoming the stiffness and removing any remaining thickening. Rupture of Muscle and Tendon.—This lesion may be regarded as only a further degree of Sprain, bnt it presents certain additional particulars of importance. The part of the muscle or tendon ruptured is in the muscular sub- stance, or at the junction of the muscle and tendon, in the tendon, or at the junction of the tendon and bone. In twenty-one cases Sedillot found the rupture had occurred at the junction of the muscle and tendon in thirteen, but through the muscle in eight only. Occasionally, the sheath of the muscle or tendon is ruptured; a protrusion taking place through the aperture. This more frequently happens to the long head of the biceps muscle, or the extensor tendons of the fiugers. The muscles most liable to sprain are also subject to rupture, by sudden and violent exertion. Hence the gastrocnemius, or its tendon ; the quadri- ceps femoris, just above the patella, of which I have seen two instances ; also the biceps or triceps of the arm, the former giving way above, in its long head, or below, at its insertion, the latter muscle or its tendon rupturing just above its insertion, into the olecranon. More rarely, the deltoid or the pectoral muscle yields, the rectus abdominis, or the muscles of the back are torn. The symptoms are generally -well marked;. sudden pain and power- lessness, with a sensation as if something had given way, and perhaps an audible snap. Pain is far less acute if a tendon be the seat of lesion. An interval may be discovered in the situation of rupture, into which the finger will fall when passed over the surface; a hard swelling above and below is also felt, if a muscle be torn, the retracted ends rising up. Subsequently, this state of the part is obscured as inflammatory swelling supervenes, or reparative lymph occupies the