GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 220 fingers. According to Duhamel's memoir in the Royal Academy of Sciences, 1748, in 120 cases, not more than four or five recovered. Post-mortem examination shows congestion of the brain, liver, and lungs ; the blood also, apparently, has undergone some change, predis- posing to hasniorrhage. The cause of this gangrene is a diseased state of the rye-grain,—known as ergot, or spurred rye, when eaten as bread. In this state, the grain is of large size, has a black colour, and horny consistence. But a similar diseased state of wheat may be equally pernicious. The gangrene induced by such food is peculiar to wet seasons and certain localities. First described with accuracy by Dodard, as having occurred in France, 1630, ergotism is uncommon in Grermany, Italy, or England. Mortification arising from any blood-disease spreads without limita- tion, as to its extent. (2.) The quantity of blood supplied to and circulated through any part depends upon, and is regulated by, the heart's mechanism and action, the state of the blood-vascular system—arteries, veins, and caplliaries—and the physical condition of the blood itself, chiefly in respect of its spissitude and adhesiveness. These conditions are severally, and collectively, more or less causes of mortification. Of diseases and malformations of the heart, their influence in rela- tion to mortification is impressiTcly illustrated by a probably unique case, —gangrene of both feet in a boy (like Fig. 77), arising from dilatation of the auriculo-ventricular opening, and of the auricle and ventricle, on the right side of the heart. Double amputation, which I performed by modifications of Hey's and Chopart's operations, was followed by speedy recovery, with sound stumps ; but death ensued from cardiac and pul- monary conditions,—pericarditis, capillary bronchitis, and pleurisy.* Ancemia, with weakness of the heart's action, is a rare cause of gangrene. Both feet, as the parts most distant in the circulation, are specially liable to be afl!ected. This ansemic gangrene occurs some- times in young chlorotic females; the premonitory symptoms being fatigue, fainting fits, and rigidity of the hands and feet; In one case, Billroth noticed that the tip of the nose first became gangrenous. (a.) Arteries are liable to undergo changes of structure, which are particularly worthy of notice surgically. Ossification or calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries, with fibrous thickening of the smaller ones, is accompanied with a more or less inelastic and contracted state of the vessels, thus leading to coagu- lation of the blood, in tubes which have become too narrow and rigid for the transmission of that fluid, and in quantity adequate to meet vary- ing demands. This condition represents the changes of structure con- cerned in producing " senile " gangrene,—a dry form of mortification, commonly affecting the foot, when the arteries of the leg have under- gone these changes. Some slight injury, followed by low inflammation, is usually the immediate or exciting cause in such cases. Traumatic gangrenous inflammation is, in fact, engrafted on the state of the arteries, as a predisposing condition. Mortification, commencing generally in a part most distant from the heart, as the ball of the great toe, and thence spreading upwards, gradually assumes the appearance of a black slipper on the foot. (See Fig. 77.) # "Trans. Clin. Soc.," 1872.