SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 477. congenital or acquired, the latter being more frequent. The flexor tendons, or sometimes the digital prolongations of the plantar fascia, are implicated, resulting in the contny;. tion or doubling up of one or more of tlie toes towards the sole of the foot. The second toe is most often affected, the first phalanx being slightly- elevated, and flexion taking place at the junction of the re- mainder of the toe, with perhaps some overlap- ping of the adjoining toes. The great toe may be thrust out- wards, and extended from the metatarso- pnaiangeal articulation, so as thus to overlay the second toe. Sometimes the little toe is similarly dis- placed. Both feet are not unfrequently affected symmetrically. Any such crippled condition is attended with lameness, and the more so owing to the co-existence of corns on the prominent points of the displaced toes. In the case of the great toe turned outwards, there will be an inability to stand on tiptoe, or to walk uphill; and the frequent association of a bunion is even more crippling. These con- tractions, or perhaps extensions, of the toes, wdth lateral displacements, are mostly produced by wearing tight or ill-made and hard-leathered boots. Treatment, therefore, consists in removing any such source of pressure—the patient wearing a loose, wide-made, soft shoe, and then the deformity may be rectified by counter-pressure. Contraction can be overcome by gradual extension of the toe ; a digital whalebone splint is applied under the toe, and fixed by a narrow roller-bandage or strips of plaster. In children, this often proves sufficient. In adults, and with a more rigid state of contraction, the aid of tenotomy may be required, the flexor tendon being divided opposite the first phalanx or the process of plantar fascia, followed by the use of an extending splint. This must be worn for a few weeks to complete the cure. An extended state of the great toe will probably necessitate division of the extensor tendon; when the lateral divergence can be corrected by the patient wearing a wide shoe, having a partition between this toe and the next, so as to restore the right position. END OF VOL. I. PRINTED AT THE CAXTON PRESS, BECCLKS.