SPECIAL PATHOLOGY. AND SURGERY. 784 Fig. 39a.t to these Injuries, there is an obIi(|ue fracture of the tibia upwards and outwards from the articulating surface, breaking oif that portion of the tibia which corresponds to the inferior tibio-fibular articulation ; this fragment remaining connected with the outer malleolus, while the'tibia carries inward with it the portion of the fibula above the fracture. Commonly, the astragalus undergoes a lateral rotation inwards, whereby its outer and upper margin glides beneath the middle of tlie lower articulating surface of the tibia; thus presenting the outer or fibular surface of the astragalus obliquely upwards, while its inner and upper margin is carried downwards towards the end of the inner malleolus. (2.) Dislocation inwards.—The lower ends of the tibia and of the fibula are displaced laterally outwai-ds (Fig. 398), and perhaps com- FiG 398* P'^^^V' ^^^^ articulating surface of the tibia entirely sliding oif the upper surface of the astragalus. The inner malleolus is broken off the tibia, but remains attached to the tarsus by the internal lateral liga- ment ; and the external lateral ligament is rup- tured, or the outer malleo- lus may be broken off the fibula, thus making a frac- ture of both malleoli. The 'g^iiii.p-^^ Jl . foo^ turned inwards— inverted. The astragalus may undergo rotation outwards, analogous to that in the outward dislocation ; here, its inner or tibial malleolar surface looks obliquely upwards. (3.) Dislocation haxlcwards.—The lower end of the tibia is displaced forwards on the astragalus, resting partly on this bone and partly on the scaphoid bone (Fig. 399) ; or completely forward, the tibia then resting on the scaphoid and internal cuneiform bones. The foot, in front of the ankle, is shortened. In the latter or complete displacement, especially, the lateral ligaments are more or less completely ruptured; generally the fibula is fractured, but on a level with the articulation ; sometimes the internal malleolus also, and, still more rarely, a fracture occurs through the posterior margin of the articular surface of the tibia. (4.) Dislocation forwards.—This injury happens even more rarely than the preceding, but Malgaigne has collected five instances. The lower end of the tibia is displaced backwards on the astragalus, resting * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 25. Dislocation of the tibia outwards, ^Yiih fracture of the inner nialleohis and of the lower end of the fibula. Bony union of both fractures, and anchylosis of the tibia and fibula. (Sir A. Cooper.) t Ibid. B. 2G. Dislocation of the tibia forwards, with fracture of the inner malleolus and of the lower end of the fibula. Bony union of both fractures. (Sir A. Cooper.)