833 DEFORMITIES OF ARM AND HAND. Fig. 444. It is said to result uot uufrequeiitly from habitual pre.ssure on the palm of the hand, as in bearing on a knob-headed walking-stick, or using an instrument which has this effect, in the exercise ot various trades; but this mode of origin is doubtful. But, without any ap- parent exciting cause, a rheumatic or gouty diathesis—and, so far, habitual intemperance—may give rise to chronic thickening or hypertrophy of the palmar fascia, in the form of projecting ridges extending towards the palm of the contracted fingers. (Fig. 444.) The little finger and the ring-finger are commonly affected first, and most severely; the middle and fore-fingers less in frequency and degree, while the thumb is rarely involved. The articulations are usually free. It is a painless affection, and progresses very slowly; thickening and contraction proceeding until the fingers may become tightly clenched, and even the nail pressed into the palm. Both hands sometimes undergo contraction, and symmetrically; or the disease may be associated with a similar hypertrophied condition of the plantar fascia in the soles of the feet. The treatment is, in principle, the same; manipulations, with mechanical extension, or subcutaneous division of any tense fascial prolongations binding down the fingers. Sometimes, owing to firm adhesion of the skin to these bands, it has been the practice of some Surgeons to make a long incision and dissect back the skin on either side; the bands must then be divided or dissected off the tendons, leaving their sheaths intact. After either operation, the fingers are to be straightened and retained in position on a splint. In the case of a clergyman, aged seventy-nine, the tendons were involved, apparently as the result of chronic rheumatic inflammation, and presented an appearance nearly like that depicted in the figure. Both hands were similarly affected. Being a man of uncommonly robust constitution, I performed tenotomy on the right hand, and then applied a palmar splint, padded so as to separate the divided ends of tendon by about half an inch, under a small lint compress; in the course of a week, gradual extension was practised, and the fingers were brought down straight, whereby the free use of the hand became quite restored. Some tendency to the recurrence of contraction was checked by wearing for a time finger stalls, with elastic extending braces, attached to a wrist-band,—a little contrivance made by Mr. Bigg. As a rule, tendons in dense sheaths are unfitted for tenotomy; suppuration taking place up the sheath, or no union of the ends of tendon. Congenital Deformities of the Fingers may be met with. Erichsen saw a case in which the fingers ap- peared as if they had undergone complete or partial amputation in utero. Some were marked by deep transverse sulci others shortened and terminating in rounded nodules, with a narrow pedicle attaching them to the proximal phalanx. 8u2>plGmentari/ fingers, or a thumb, are found in some cases. (Fig. 445.) 3 n Fig. 445,