452 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the blood-restorative action of iron is counteracted by the constant retention of urea and other excrementitious matters in the blood. Disordered menstruation may perhaps be remedied by the administra- tion of emenagogues—e.g., galbanum, myrrh, etc.—in conjunction with tonic treatment. Constipation or irregular action of the bowels must be overcome by aperients, chosen according to the occasion. Thus, aloetic purgatives, rhubarb, mercurials, and salines, are all useful, in difPerent cases. Any local cause of irritation should not be overlooked, but its removal will seldom overcome a true neuralgic tendency. The ex- traction of a carious tooth, for example, seems only to divert the recurrence of pain to another, and possibly sounder tooth. Local applications, sedative or counter-irritant, are comparatively useless. Belladonna, opium, aconitina, and otter powerful sedatives have been tried in vain. The hypodermic injection of morphia is perhaps more promising. Blistering, or stimulant embrocations, will rarely be tolerated by the patient. Section of the nerve is a last resource. It cannot succeed in cases of neuralgic pain depending on pressure in the course of a nerve, unless the occasion of pressure can be detected, and the operation be performed above that part. It was thus unavailing in the case of Dr. Pemberton. When appropriate, the section must be an excision of a portion of the nerve, the simply divided ends otherwise regaining their continuity. Neuromatous Tumour.—See Morbid Growths. AETERIES. CHAPTER XXV. injuries of AETERIES. ANEURISM. Wounds—and of Special Arteries.—These Injuries are conveniently associated, respectively, with Wounds in general (Ch. XVI.) and with Traumatic Aneurisms in various parts of the body. (Ch. XXVI.) Aneurism. — Structural Condi- tions.—Aneurism maybe generally defined to be a collection of arterial blood communicating with an artery, from which it has arisen. (Fig. 108.) This collection of blood may be circumscrihed, commonly, by en- closure within a dilated portion of the artery, as a sac, forming true aneurism ; or possibly within a sacculated dilatation of its external cellular coat alone, the internal * Tnio saccular aneurism, in arch of aorta; with laminated clot-formation. (After Hodgson, sHghtly modified.)