SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 586 treatment as to time was, and is still, I believe, with some Surgeons, to postpone any attempt to set the fracture at rest, until after tlio swelling itself—resulting from the injury—has subsided or been subdued by topical antiphlogistic measures. Some hours or even days, it is alleged,* as a general rule, should be allowed to elapse for the realization of this purpose. The utter fallacy of this injunction is obvious, the cause of increasing swelling still remaining in operation. After Fracture, the subject of the accident should not be moved unnecessarily. If a lower limb be the seat of fracture, it is important to wait until a suitable conveyance can be procured. A Htter is best fitted to carry the person, without any jerking movement, which would inevitalDly damage still more the already injured soft parts. This consideration will be the more important, according to the oblique direction of the fracture, and the amount of displacement. The pro- duction of compound fracture may thus be prevented. Hence, also, the limb should be properly secured, by tying it to its fellow, during the journey, however short, to an hospital or to home. The dress must be cautiously removed, and particularly from off the fractured limb, by ripping up the clothes. It may be advisable to aid the vital powers in recovering from the shock of injury, by the administration of stimulants ; wine, brandy, or ammonia. The pathological analogy of simple Fracture to an incised Wound, as a solution of textural continuity, and the natural mode of healing in both these lesions, by a process of reparation essentially the same, namely, primary adhesion, at once suggests the two Rules of Treatment. (1.) deduction and Coaptation, or the adjusted apposition of the fractured ends of bone. This condition implies a suitable position of the limb, to relax, as far as possible, any antagonistic muscles, which, by their spasmodic action, retain the fragments in a displaced position. It also implies some extension of the limb, with counter-extension or passive resistance, sufficient only to bring the fi'actured ends of bone parallel, end to end; a procedure which is designated the "reduction" of Fracture. Coaptation or " setting " is then readily effected. (2.) Maintenance of Coaptation during the process of reparation, including the solidification of the callus. This still presupposes a suitable position to prevent re-displacement by the spasmodic action of any antagonistic muscles. But it also implies the employment of suitable retentive appliances, or retentive apparatus; and botli^ to insure rest. This is, obviously, only the continued fulfilment, and completion, of the former rule of treatment. Certain exceptions to both the foregoing rules of treatment are tO' be observed. Considering the purpose of reduction, it can be necessary only in cases of fracture with displacement. Fracture without dis- placement, as when the lesion is transverse, and the ends of bone are broad and remain in contact, cannot require reduction. Such is some- times the case in fracture of the lower part of the shaft of the femur. Then again, if one only of two companion bones, articulated: together at either end, be broken, the remaining one renders any adjustment by extension and counter-extension impossible. In fi'ac- ture of the fibula, especially if high up, the tibia has this restraining- * Chelius, by South.