vi PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION. Having regard to the intimate relation of A.natomy—as well as Pathology—to the Practice of Surgery, whether in the diag- nosis of morbid conditions or their treatment by Operations, I have introduced the Pi'actical Anatomy of various important parts, in connection with their injuries and diseases; e.g. of the Arteries, with reference to Ligature; of the region or parts concerned, in relation to Hernise; and of the Bladder, Prostate Gland, and Urethra, as bearing on the Surgery of these organs. Physiology is interwoven, occasionally, with the Pathology of morbid condi- tions. The arrangement of the work is simple and comprehensive. By a condensed view of Modern Surgery, as a Science and an Ai't, the Student will gain an elementary knowledge of both. Then follows the primary division into General and Special Pathology; the one comprising Diseases of Nutrition, of the Blood, and of the Nervous System; the other being a Histo- logical association of Diseases, as affecting Textures and Textural Systems; and Topographical, as pertaining to Organs and Regions. Beginning with the Head, and proceeding downwards in the Body, this latter subdivision includes every branch of Surgical Practice. Some subjects to which, for many years, I have given particular attention, e.g. Diseases of the Joints,—chiefly with relation to their treatment by Excisional Surgery,—and Diseases of the Genito- urinary Organs, may have been dwelt upon more fully than others, yet not with undue prominence as parts of a whole. For the vast accumulation of facts within the rano-e of modern Surgery, very many sources of information—whether in the form of Special Treatises, Monographs, Transactions of Societies, Hospital Reports, Medical Journals, etc., have neces- sarily been referred to, not omitting some of the more important researches with which our American brethren and foreign con- freres have enriched Surgical literature. Indeed, it would be almost impossible to name individually all those to whom by their published writings I am thus indebted. But I trust that original observations are always duly acknowledged in the Text, —supplemented by the Index. My own pathological observa- tions and surgical experiences, interspersed throughout the Text, are not collected together in the Index. In certain special departments of experience, this new edition has the advantage of original contributions from authorities on their respective subjects. The chapter on " Injuries and Diseases