68 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. from each other (Fig. llh). This occurs in conditions of high tension, with excited and forcible action of the heart, as in early stages of Bright's disease. The Percussion wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Forcible contraction. 1. Feeble contraction. 2. Sudden contraction. 2. Gradual contraction. 3. Large volume of blood. 3. Small volume of blood. 4. Fulness of vessel. 4, Emptiness of vessel. "The Tidal wave is the true pulse wave, and indicates the passage of a volume of blood through the arteries, pumped into them by each contraction of the heart. It resembles the passage of the tidal wave or ' bore' up a river; hence its name. It is transmitted more slowly than the percussion wave, or rather attains its maximum intensity more gradually; hence their separation in the tracing. Though they usually commence to distend the artery together, the percussion wave necessarily attains its maximum intensity instantaneously, it being only a shock, while the tidal wave does so more gradually. (Fig. lift.) Sometimes a considerable interval elapses between them. (Fig. lib.) Frequently they are inseparable, the percussion wave not existing, or else being merged into the tidal. (Fig. 11c and e.) The Tidal wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Slow and prolonged contraction. 1. Quick and short contraction. 2. Large volume of blood. 2. Small volume of blood. 3. Emptiness of vessels. 3. Fulness of vessels. 4. Diminished outflow, or slow capillary 4. Increased outflow, or rapid capillary circulation. circulation. " The Dicrotic wave is the wave of elastic recoil, due to the con- traction of the aorta. It occurs during the diastole of the heart. It may reach almost as high as the tidal and percussion. (Fig. 11c.) The Dicrotic wave is Increased by Diminished by 1. Sudden contraction. 1. Gradual contraction. 2. Emptiness of vessels. 2. Fulness of vessels. 3. Increased outflow, or rapid capillary 3. Diminished outflow, or slow capillary circulation. circulation. 4. Elasticity of aorta. 4. Rigidity of aorta. 5. Relaxation of muscular coat. 5. Contraction of muscular coat. " The Sphygmograph will indicate and explain the meaning of all the terms usually employed in describing the pulse. Thus, the pulse maybe 'hard' or 'soft;' that is, require much or little pressure. It may be ' sudden ' or ' gradual,' namely, having a well-marked per- cussion wave or none at all; ' large' or ' small,' according to the size of the tidal wave and height of upstroke, which will depend on the volume of blood sent into the vessels by each systole, on the emptiness or fulness of the vessels during diastole, and on the conti-action or relax- ation of the muscular coat of the arteries. Should they be contracted, the terms ' wiry' or ' contracted' are applied to the pulse. The pulse is called ' flickering' when the systoles are feeble and unequal, the tidal waves being therefore unequal in volume and perhaps in rhythm; or ' undulating ' from an undulation in the respiratory line; ' dicrotic,' if the dicrotic wave can be felt. Irregularities in rhythm