SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 400 whole class of causative agents. Contusion and laceration are pro- portionate to tlie bluntness of the penetrating instrument. The con- stitutional effect of a punctured wound consists, partly, of syncope due to ha3niorrhage; partly and perhaps principally, of shock to the nervous system; and here, again, both are generally disproportionate to the apparent importance of the local lesion, which by its depth rnay involve large blood-vessels and nerves, and possibly implicate a vital organ. Tetanus is another constitutional condition not unlikely to occur. Course.—Sloughing ensues, more or less in extent, along the track of the wound, accompanied with suppurative discharge ; but eventually it heals by granulation. If the textures are not much contused nor lacerated, the wound may heal by primary adhesion; and this, although the depth of penetration may have been considerable, extending even into a great cavity and involving an important organ. Thus, in one case under my observation, after a stab in the back with a fork, which entered the lung, union of the flesh-wound speedily ensued, and the lung-symptoms also subsided. In another case, after a similar stab in the loins, penetrating the kidney, this mode of healing occurred, and the hematuria disappeared. Apart from this general vital history, a punctured wound extending into any internal organ, exhibits a series of phenomena peculiar to the particular organ implicated ; and thence the completion of the vital history of this form of injury, as occurring in different parts of the body, belongs to Special Pathology. Prognosis.—The prognosis of Punctured Wound is partly analogous to that of any other contused or lacerated wound. It is unfavourable in so far as the kind of structural disorganization is that of contusion or laceration. Sloughing and suppuration to some extent are almost inevitable. The presence of any foreign body in the wound has a simi- lar influence. But the prognosis is specially unfavourable according to the depth of the wound—or the number and functional importance of the parts implicated, as complications of the wound. Injury to large blood-vessels, nerves, or an internal organ, are thus, severally, unfavourable conditions; and according to the importance of the functional disturbances thence arising. The subsequent course of a punctured wound, in its undergoing reparation by suppurative granulation, is an eventually favourable ground of prognosis. Treatment.—The first indication is to arrest haemorrhage, which obviously claims immediate attention when it occurs in any considerable quantity. Pressure, by means of a compress, will generally prove suSicient, unless a large artery be punctured, when it will be necessary to ligature the vessel above and below the aperture, by cutting down in the track of the wound, if it can possibly be thus secured. The removal of any foreign body is another obvious indication, whenever it can be safely fulfilled. A portion of clothing may have been thrust so deeply into the wound, and possibly into some internal organ, that its presence cannot be ascertained with certainty, nor its removal effected with safety, and without unwarrantable mutilation. Guided by the processes of reparation, healing by primary adhesion should be attempted in all cases; but the prospect of success will depend on the comparatively simple character of the wound, by the less cir- cumferential contusion, the absence or removal of any foreign body,