449 INJURIES OF NERVES. the palm, of the hand. The sheaths of the flexor tendons are distended, containing a glairy or other fluid. The elastic tumour, thus produced beneath the palmar fascia, extends imder the tra isverse ligament into the forearm, in the form of a double swelling, constricted by the liga- ment. The fingers are contracted. Various plans of treatment may be followed. In the case of a surgeon, aged sixty-five, I made a subcutaneous small opening above the wrist, and evacuated a large number of melon-seed bodies, with a very successful result. Free in- cision of the tumour, dividing the annular ligament, and healing from ■within, as reconimended by Syme, may be advisable, although appa- rently an extreme measure. But other proceedings—the passage of a seton from above under the annular ligament into the palm, or the injection of iodine—are more hazardous, by inducing inflammation which cannot be controlled so as only to obliterate the swelling. NERVES. CHAPTER XXIV. INJURIES. NEURITIS.—NEURALGIA. Injuries.—Iserves are seldom injured alone, but in connection with other textures, the injury being shared in common with them. N^erves are, however, liable to similar lesions as other soft textures ; wounds, incised, punctured, and contused, and to contusion without breach o£ continuity. Perhaps the latter lesion is the most frequent, as when the ulnar nerve at the elbow is contused by an accidental collision, just catching the nerve in its course between the inner condyle and olecranon. The symptoms attending these forms of injury vary with the amount of injury to the nerve, and its own functional importance. Pain, tingling, or other perverted sensation, accompany contusion; complete paralysis of sensation, and of motion, in the parts supplied by the nerve, denote division. This has happened in excision of the elbow- joint ; division of the ulnar occasioning immediate loss of sensation on both sides of the little finger and inside of the ring finger, with inability also to move these fingers. Sometimes loss of temperature and failure of nutrition supervene ; owing probably to the loss of nervous influence on the circulation in the part to which the nerve is distributed, and the finger, as I have seen, may become atrophied. Fortunately, restoration after contusion, and reunion after division, not unfrequently take place; the nerve sooner or later resuming its functions. In large nerve-trunks, as the sciatic and median, the original structure is not completely reproduced. When, also, a portion of nerve has been excised, to the extent of, say, the third of an inch, the divided ends remaining apart, such portion will not be reproduced. The cut end of a nerve—as in an amputation-stump—often enlarges mto a club-shaped or bulbous extremity, consisting—Billroth observes— of convoluted nerve-filaments ; which grow from the nerve-end, as if to meet an opposite end. The cicatrix of a divided nerve is sometimes nodular, in like manner. 2 Q