072 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. t St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 0, 12G. may be no displacement—the bone being held in position betwixt tlie malleolar arch and the calcaneum, although sometimes the upper- fragment is driven up and wedged between the ends of the tibia and fibula. As accompanied with dislocation, the additional signs of that injury will of course bo presented. Causes.—Indirect violence seems to be the more common cause of fracture through the astragalus; in 10 cases collected by Dr. B. Monahan, 9 occurred by a fall from a height on the feet, 1 only from direct force, crushing the foot. Treatment must be guided by the amount of injury. Thus, the reduction of displacement can sometimes be accomplished, and then maintained in a Mclntyre's splint; but excision of a displaced frag- ment Avill be necessary, Avhen it cannot be reduced and kept in position;, and amputation of the foot is the only resource of treatment for a crushing injury. Compound fracture of the astragalus, with perhaps protrusion of a displaced fragment, may be produced, partly by the displacement, but principally by the violence of the injury. This condition of fracture generally admits only of amputation. Fo-achire of the as calcis presents particulars worthy of notice. The bone is broken transversely, or comminuted occasionally, with perhaps impaction; and the line of fracture may be Fig. 286.* either heJdncl the lateral ligaments, or thi^ough the hody of the bone. (Fig. 286.) In the former situation, there will be some displace- ment, the posterior fragment being drawn up- wards by the muscles of the calf; in the latter situation, this fragment is retained in position by the lateral ligaments and the strong inter- osseous ligament. The Signs of this fracture vary accordingly. Marked flattening of the heel on its plantar aspect, or even a depression upwards, and projection of the fragment posteriorly, with mobility and crepitus, denote fracture behind the lateral ligaments; of which injury I have had one well-marked case. Comparative absence of these signs, and particularly of the deformity of the heel, denotes fracture more anteriorly, or that across the body of the bone. Causes.—Direct violence is, probably, the only cause of fracture; as by a fall from a height, the person alighting on his heels, or by a cart-wheel passing over and crushing the foot. Yery rarely, the os calcis may be broken transversely, by the powerful action of the muscles of the calf, in jumping or falling on the toes. Twelve such cases are recorded; 8 having been collected by Malgaigne, 2 by South in Chelius's Surgery, and 2 by B. Cooper in his edition of Sir A. Cooper's work. Treatment consists, as usual, in the adjustment of the fragments, with relaxation of any opposing muscular action; and their retention in position. A gutta-percha or pasteboard splint must be contrived according to the fracture ; and, when necessary to place the leg in the- flexed attitude, with the heel drawn up, this position may be maintained