DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 825 lowei'ing of its neck to even below the level of the great trochanter. The limb is drawn up, the thigh and buttock are wasted; the patient stands on the other limb, and walks with a limping lameness. The disease progresses slowly, for years; clearly distinguishing it from the sudden result of fracture. Other articulations being or becoming affected, would leave no doubt as to the nature of the hip- condition. Thus, the finger-joints are often attacked, being greatly deformed with nodulated chalk-stones; while the ball of the gi-eat toe is frequently much enlarged, and the joint partially dislocated inwards. The general health is often little disturbed, the disease appearing as a local affection. Males are attacked far more often than females, and thin persons mostly. Chronic rheumatic arthritis, affecting the hip- joint, seldom occurs under the age of forty; differing in this respect from scrofulous disease of the joint, as well as in its pathology and symptoms. Treatment.—See Chronic Rheumatic Synovitis. Neuralgia of the Hip.—The diagnostic Symptoms of Neuralgia are pointed out in connection with affections of the Nerves. Neuralgia of some duration is attended with the alterations of atti- tude consequent on disease of the joint—whether scrofulous or rheu- matic. The weight of the body being habitually thrown on the sound limb to relieve the affected joint of the other side, the limb on this side becomes apparently lengthened and flexed, the toes touching the ground; the pelvis is inclined obliquely to the same side, and some compensatory lateral curvature of the lumbar spine results. But, with neuralgia, no real shortening of the limb ever ensues. Disease of the Sacro-iliac Joint.—Structural Oondiiion.—The cartilaginous lamella of the sacro-iliac articulation seems to be the seat of a disease, occasionally affecting this joint. Ulceration of the cartilage, as the Fig. 442.* primary change, involves the synovial mem- brane ; both of which structures are thus destroyed more or less completely. But the ligaments remain unaffected, or are only partially destroyed; and the adjoining osseous surfaces seldom become carious or necrosed. This disease is of very rare occurrence. It may be associated with extensive disease of the hip-joint. (Fig. 442.) In the sacro-iliac joint here shown, are two large cavities containing pieces of necrosed bone, not quite detached; and above there is a small cavity on the inner surface of the ilium, which contained scro- fulous matter. This disease occurred in a man aged twenty-three; and the symptoms of hip-joint disease were well marked. Numerous abscesses formed in various situations, and discharging very profusely, the patient died from hectic exhaustion. Signs, and Diagnosis.—Pain is one of the earliest symptoms. It is confined to the region of the joint, and increased by any movement or position whereby the weight of the body is thrown upon the sacro-iliac joint. Thus, walking, stooping, or even standing, is attended with a * St. George's Hosp. Mus., Ill, 03.