250 GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the same condition of induration may be produced artificially, by irritating applications ; such as kali purum (Hennen), corrosive sub- limate (Acton), and better still, says Ricord, by cbromate of potash, nitrate of silver, or the nitric and sulphuric acids; " so as to deceive even the most careful and experienced practitioners." The duration of chancre, as an open ulcer, is commonally a period of some weeks; it continues often until after the appearance of secondary symptoms, and being thus indolent and indisposed to heal, it then cicatrizes slowly and perhaps imperfectly; or the sore may reappear. Induration remains for a longer period, usually for at least twfp or three months ; especially when the chancre is situated in the furrow at the base of the glans penis. As instances of extreme per- sistence may be mentioned induration of two and three years, in several cases known to Bumstead; nine years, in a case seen by Puche; and thirty years, in one instance, according to Ricord. On the other hand, induration may disappear before the chancre heals, leaving a perfectly soft base to the cicatrix. This occurs particularly in the parchment form of hardness, around a superficial chancre ; the deposit being limited to the mucous membrane, without involving the sub- cellular texture, it is soon resolved. The termination of chancre is not attended with any loss of sub- stance, and thus there is no marked cicatrix. When situated on the skin, as the outer aspect of the prepuce, a brown or dusky-red dis- colouration often remains, which, however, at length fades away into a white colour. Chancre is generally solitary; although sometimes more than one such sore may be produced. It is protective against the recurrence of a similar sore, conferring a relative, but not an absolute, immunity against subsequent attacks. Thus, inoculation with the secretion of chancre fails to reproduce chancre in the same person, or in another person already affected ; in other words, chancre is neither capable of awio-inoculation, nor of /ie^ero-inoculation ; the reason of non-repro- duction being, apparently, that the system or constitution is already nnder the influence of the syphilitic virus—syphilis is established. Whenever the discharge from an indurated chancre proves to be in- oculable, it never begets a similar sore, but only a pustule, and then some slight erosion or ulceration. The failure of reproduction may, therefore, be regarded as diagnostic evidence that the ulcer is not a chancre. But it should be observed that no one character of chancre is invariably constant, nor peculiar to this species of ulcer, and, therefore, not absolutely pathognomonic; neither its period of incubation, its circular shape, its induration, its indolence, nor its protective power, and non-inoculable nature. Taken collectively, however, and in con- junction with an indurated or a bullety-hardened enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands, forming a multiple indurated bubo, the nicer is then recognized as a chancre. The co-existence of secondary symptoms in constitutional syphilis, will of course strengthen the diagnosis. (2.) Chancroid, or the Local Gontagioits Ulcer.—Commencing as a pustule, which bursts, or occasionally as an open sore, the ulcer formed has a circular shape, as if punched out; but the base presents a cellu- lar or honey-combed, worm-eaten appeai-ance, and is covered with a