SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. GIG Hanging, another instance o£ force compressing the hyoid bone, does not, I believe, generally produce fracture. Three cases only were thus caused out of the whole number of hyoid fractures, 10, which Hamilton has collected. In one case, having, by permission of the sheriffs, ex- amined the throat of a man after execution at the Old Bailey, I found no fracture of this bone, although the rope, producing a deep, puri^le indentation, had passed directly over the bone. ^ Hyoid fracture cannot be regarded as of vital consequence in itself, union taking place, although perhaps with some delay and deformity. Yet, in connection with the causes referred to, the fracture has often a fatal result. Treatment.—Adjustment of the fragment is easily accomplished by passing the finger of one hand into the pharynx, while coaptation is effected externally. Retention in position is far more difficult, owing to the mobility of the part, and the recurrence of deglutition. It has been proposed to embrace the neck in a firm pasteboard collar, as a splint; and thus fix the bone externally. But the liability of dis- placement in other directions, by muscular action, still remains a difficulty to be overcome. Feactuee of the Ribs, and Costal Caetilages.—Structural Con- ditions.—One or more ribs, even several, may be fractured. Seven and eight ribs I have seen broken, counting from the second downwards. The fii'st, and perhaps the second rib, are seldom fractured, they being protected by the clavicle; and the last two false ribs also escape, as being floating, or freely movable. The mid-ribs, most exposed and fixed, are, usually, the seat of fracture. Any part of a rib is liable to be broken, by direct violence; but the convexity, or near the angle, yields mostly under the force of compression. Thus the mid-ribs, somewhere in a line fi-om the axilla downward, present the fracture commonly met Avith. The line of fracture is generally ti-ansverse, sometimes oblique; rarely, there is comminution. Displacement may be outwards, or inwards; seldom upwards or downwards, the intercostal muscles apparently restraining the broken ends in either of these directions. Longitudinal displacement, in the axis of the bone, is apt to occur when several ribs are broken. The pleura and lung are specially liable to injury simultaneously; rarely, the pericardium or heart, the diaphragm, and liver. Compound fracture occurs sometimes, as by gunshot wound. The Sicjns of fracture are crepitus, and some mobility, felt on placing the hand over the seat of injury, while the patient coughs or breathes hurriedly ; and some irregularity or flattening in the course of the ribs can usually be detected, at least during such respiratory action. A catching pain, occasionally disturbing the respiration, elicits these signs more palpably. Hence the breathing is soon restrained, and becomes more abdominal. Haemoptysis, or a spitting of blood, pneumothorax, or a tympanitic accumulation of air in the pleura, and general emphysema of the subcutaneous cellular texture, may be further signs of fracture ; indicating that the injury implicates the pleura and lung, that both are penetrated by the fractured end, or ends, of bone. These additional thoracic symptoms are all-important, as the respiration will then be yet more embarrassed. But great oppression may also arise from compression of the chest by the act of fracture, without any penetration of the pleura and lung.