125 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. scorbutic or afEected with purpura, and in connection with disease of the liver or kidneys. Thus, Dr. C. J. B. Williams has met with several instances of hsemorrhagic pleurisy and pericarditis in conjunc- tion with cirrhosis of the liver, and Bright's disease of the kidney. The treatment forms part of that which is appropriate for whatever disease with wliich this variety of inflammation may be associated. The specific inflammations in Scrofula, Rheumatism, Gout, and Syphilis, will be fully described under these different titles, among Blood-diseases. CHAPTER II. TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. Morbid Growths present certain general characteristics, in respect to their structure and vital endowments, which may be advantageously noticed, before describing the various species of Growths. 1. In common with all other Morlaid Products, Morbid Growths are products supplemental, in the sense of being additional, to the parts of the body in which they occur. They form Tumours. 2. In their textural structure, and in their physical properties, Growths generally resemble the various healthy tissues in which they severally originate. There is a structural homology or at least analogy between the two, and their structural elements are similar if not identical; but there may be an apparent structural difference, or hete- rology. Growths are, therefore, sometimes designated Homologous or Heterologous; according as they represent a lesser or greater degree of structural departure from the normal condition of the tissues in which they are formed. Yirchow proposed the terms Hyperplasia and Heteroplasia to represent these relations of Growths, and of New formations generally, to the normal tissues of the body. Growths, in common with other organized Morbid Products, do not generally attain to the same state of textural development as healthy tissues; they so far represent structural retrogressions of the normal tissues to various rudimentary conditions, by arrests of develop- ment of their structural elements. In their degree or grade of organization. Growths represent states of textural structure, at least as highly developed as the False tissues produced in the Reparation of Injuries or resulting from Inflammation. 3. A Growth generally presents a well-defined boundary, often a distinct capsule, by which the included structure can be readily distinguished circumferentially from adjoining textures. By virtue of their structural homology or resemblance to healthy tissues. Growths may perhaps be regarded as hypertrophies or over- growths, but as discontinuous from the surrounding tissues; while, by the latter character, they are distinguished from out-growths or hypertrophies continuous with the adjoining tissues, e.g., out-growing portions of the thyroid and prostate glands. 4. The vital power of Growths is peculiar, and exhibits their