28 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. "chloric ether," in which it exists diluted with spirit of wine, this agent was employed by Dr. Morton in his first experiment upon him- self ; and it is a fact, not perhaps generally known, that it was also used in the same form, in preference to sulphuric ether, by Mr. Lawrence, at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the summer of 1847. It was in the autumn of 1847 that Dr. Simpson, who was engaged in a series of experiments with various narcotic vapours, employed for the first time the active principle of chloric ether, at the suggestion of Mr. Waldie, of the Apothecaries' Hall of Liverpool; and finding that pure chloroform had certain advantages over sulphuiic ether, he zealously recommended it to the Profession,, and it has since been generally used. The advantages alluded to in favour of chloroform are, that it is a more potent anaesthetic, its inhalation causes less bronchial irritation, its odour is more agreeable, it is less volatile, thereby rendering its administration more easy; and lastly, the vapour of chloroform not being inflammable like that of ether, it is fitted for operations by artificial light. Chlorofoem.—This anaesthetic agent will be briefly considered in regard to :■—its physiological action; the phenomena produced by inhalation; the question of its contra-indication in certain diseased conditions of the system; the method of administration; death from chlorofoi'm; and the treatment of an over-dose. Physiological Action.—The action of chloroform on the functions of the nervous system is such as to render it exactly suitable for the pur- poses of surgical practice. Chloroform is a narcotic, and hke most medicinal agents of this class, it produces temporary excitement, followed by suspension of the functions of the nervous centres ; but it affects them not simultaneously, but in a certain order. The brain is the first to evince loss of power, in the failure of sensation, including consciousness, and voluntary motion; the spinal cord, or rather the whole cerebro-spinal axis, secondly, soon loses the reflex function of involuntary excito-motion so far as regards the voluntary muscles, which lie perfectly relaxed and passive. This combined state of in- sensibility to pain, paralysis of muscular action, voluntary, and involun- tary with regard to the voluntary muscles, presents a condition most favourable for the performance of surgical operatibns. On the other hand, the involuntary action of the muscles engaged in respiration remains, and the action of the heart, as dependent on the gangha of the sympathetic nerve, continues. Thus then, while the whole physio- logical condition of the nervo-muscular system suits the convenience of the Surgeon, and the patient is rendered insensible to pain; those dependent functional actions are retained which are essential to life. Certain other important advantages attend the inactivity of the cerebro-spinal centre. The shock of injury, which would be increased by the additional violence of surgical operation, is diminished under the influence of chloroform ; thence, the contractile power of the heart, as affected by the action of the brain and spinal cord upon the cardiac ganglia through the medium of the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, is unreduced by such violence, thus averting the tendency to cardiac syncope and death during operation; and lastly, in the absence of faintness, the vessels bleed freely, and by at once declaring those which require ligature, the liability of secondary Immorrhage is prevented. Moreover, the mental tranquillity secured before operation by the pros-