388 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Owrative treatment comprises the fulfilment of the following indica- tions :—1. To maintain an adequate supply of blood to the brain, for the prevention of death by syncope. The patient should be placed recumbent, with the head low, and pressure should be made on the axillary and femoral arteries, so as to direct the circulation towards the brain. 2. To maintain the action of the heart by artificial res- piration, and friction at the prascordial region. 3. To promote the removal of obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries, also by artificial respiration. 4. After recovery, to treat the tendency to inflammation of the lungs. CHAPTER XVII. CONTUSION.—CONTUSED AND LACERATED "WOUNDS.—PUNCTURED WOUNDS. Contusion.—Structwral Condition.—Contusion is a laceration of the soft textures, subcutaneoudy, the skin remaining unbroken; whereby the textures, thus injured, are protected from the action of the air. This kind of lesion, therefore, is the connecting link between other subcutaneous lesions, by laceration, as simple fracture and dislocation, and openly lacerated, or contused wounds, compound fracture and similar dislocation; the turning point being exclusion from, or ex- posure to, the action of the air. Subcutaneous laceration of the soft textures is necessarily attended with some haemorrhage, also beneath the skin, but which extends inwards according to the depth of the contusion. The degree of laceration is proportionate to the force applied externally, and to the molecular cohesion of the textures affected; the quantity of blood effused is regulated, partly by these circumstances, but chiefly by the vascularity of the textures; while the effusion is finally determined by the resistance offered by the textures which, with the blood accumulated, together act as a compress upon the lacerated vessels. The vessels become more or less occluded with fibrinous clots; or this state of thrombosis may perhaps be in- duced by contusion of the walls of the vessels, Briicke having shown the influence of a healthy state of the walls in. maintaining the fluidity of the blood within the vessels. Signs.—The blood, diffused into the textures interstitially, and especially into the cellular tissue, is said to be extravasated; instead of being discharged out of the body as in ordinary hasmorrhage. Any portion of the blood which has accumulated in the cellular tissue under the skin, is made visible through the integument; and hence the ap- pearance of a livid or black discolouration, the ordinary appearance of bruise, as seen in the fii'st instance, accompanied with more or less swelling ; presenting the characters of the " black eye " produced by a blow. If only a small quantity of blood be exti*avasated, the appear- ance is designated ecchymosis. The pain of contusion is of a dull, heavy, aching character; or a vibrating sensation, extending perhaps far beyond the part, when a large nerve is more especially affected; as