91 INFLAMMATION. in a young girl, labonring under pi'olonged suppurative discliarge from disease of the hip-joint, and on whom I operated in the Royal Free Hospital. Such is hectic fever. Intermittent, it occui's at various periods ; frequently as a quotidian, sometimes as a tertian or quartan. Thus far resembling other intermittent fevers, hectic has diagnostic dif- ferences. It seldom recurs at a period perfectly regular, for more than three or four paroxysms. Then recurring at irregular intervals, it may disappear entirely for ten or twelve days; unlike the course of ague. Moreover, the intermissions of hectic are not complete, the pulse still remaining above par, and very easily excited. It is rather a remittent fever. Hectic, therefore, may recur two or three times daily; and a vei'y slight degree of emaciation, a pulse a little quicker than ordinary, with a slight increase of heat, particularly after meals, are sufficient to constitute incipient hectic. These ai-e the earliest symptoms. Rigor is not necessarily the earliest, nor the most con- stant constitutional announcement of suppuration, and of approaching hectic. This symptom may be present without suppuration and consequent hectic, as the harbinger of an. ague fit, or as arising during inflammation from exposure to cold ; or from the mere introduction of a bougie into the urethra. On the other hand, hectic fever some- times supervenes stealthily, without previous rigors. Pathology of Hectic.—The causative relation of suppuration to hectic fever, would appear to be, not through purulent infection of the system, but through absorption of the disorganized textures, and therefore proportionate to the pi"ogress of suppuration. (1.) Purulent infection is irreconcilable with known facts. Pus often exists in the body without hectic supervening, as, for example, in chronic diseases of the joints, and in psoas abscess. Probably, how- ever, in such cases absorption is not very active. In other cases, pus is readily absorbed, yet without inducing hectic. A large bubo will sometimes subside in a few days without any symptoms of hectic, and every pus-secreting ulcer is liable to absorb its own secretion, and yet hectic is an unusual concomitant. Purulent absorption, therefore, is not a cause of hectic fever. Yet, I am not prepared to assert that hectic ever occurs without previous suppuration. Assuredly the ' quantity of pus formed is no measure of the degree of hectic which shall ensue ; for after amputation, say, of a compound fracture, a much larger quantity of pus may form eventually, before convalescence, than 1 had been secreted during the period prior to amputation, and yet the ! hectic shall subside. (2.) Recovery follows the removal of the disorganized part. In - some way, therefore, a causative relation exists between the disorgani- zation of a part, and the supervention of hectic. It cannot be that ■ the progressive destruction of nerves by suppuration, and the injury thence inflicted on the nervous system, gives rise to hectic, for the - symptoms are not those of nervous irritation, and, moreover, they are intermittent, or at least remittent. This certainly looks as if some noxious matter was gradually absorbed and accumulated in the blood, until thrown off by a hectic paroxysm, again to re-accumulate. The matter in question is not pus, or if absorbed it does not infect. By f^^^^s/on we are led to infer that the morbid matter is probably ithe dehriB of the disorganized textures. Clinical observations and