FEACTUEE OF THE PATELLA. 661 fhe concavity between the condyles of the femur, and even behind the patella, itself apparently entire; and thus the fragment could not be readily moved laterally, nor brought into contact with the rest of the bone. But there was the usual powerlessness, or nearly so, in the patient's endeavour to lift his leg. Causes.—3Iuscular action is the most frequent cause, producing transverse fracture. A person falls back- wards, the knee is bent, and the patella snaps—as the tendon of the quadriceps ex- tensor might be ruptured—by the sudden strain thrown on that muscle in the effort to regain the upright posture. But the fall is completed because the patella gives way, and the bone is not broken by falling on it. This accident happens more commonly in men, and in adult life than childhood. In like manner, after fracture of one patella, the other is more liable to be broken by muscular action; increased strain being thrown on the quadriceps muscle of the other leg, in any similar effort of self-preservation. Both patellae have been known to snap simul- taneously. Direct violence, as by a fall on the knee, is the occasion of longitudinal, and, more especially, of comminuted fracture. According to Hamilton, such force will generally produce transverse fracture; but Fig. 270.t muscular action invariably having this effect, the greater pi'oportion of, if not all, transverse fractui-es are thus pro- duced. Considerable swelling speedily ensues from effusion into and around the joint, in connection with fractured patella, whether produced by muscular action or by direct violence; and this is associated, in the latter case, with marked discolouration. The signs of fracture are thus more or less obscured. The mode of Pinion in fracture of the patella would appear to be of two kinds, ligamentous and osseous; the difference depending probably on the less or more complete contact of the fragments, during the process of union. Hence the probability as to the one or the other taking place will vary ac- cording to the direction of the line or lines of fracture, whereby the frag- ments are subjected to displacement by muscular action—that of the quadriceps extensor, or perhaps by an * After Fergusaon. t f5t. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 3, 28. Two patellto from the same person- Transvorso fracture in both, separation to the extent of five inches, and connection only by a thin fibrous membrane. Enlargement of all the fragments. Fig. 260.*