591 FRACTURE. xesource, in the most obstinate cases; and division of the tendo-Achillis has been practised with success, in fractui'es of the leg. At length the proper time arrives, when splints and bandages may be exchanged for an "immovable apparatus." "When all chance of swelling has passed, spasm has ceased, and soft union is established, then only is the "starched" bandage safe and advantageous. At an ■earlier period, the unyielding nature of a solid casement would not allow for any alteration whatever in the size of the limb. As swelling inevitably supervenes, the immovable apparatus tightens, even to strangulation, and when the limb shrinks, it becomes as much loosened; thus entailing an almost daily entire reapplication of the apparatus, at that period of fracture. The unyielding nature of the starched bandage is oSensive also to the muscles about the fracture, at a time when they are most irritable and susceptible of spasm. Professor Erichsen, I observe, advocates the use of a starched bandage at almost the earliest possible period after fracture, urging its safety and advantage, chiefly on these grounds: that it takes the shape of the limb " accurately and readily," and retains this shape by virtue of its "solidity." But these very characters of the starched bandage are, in my opinion, the most obvious and valid objections to its application at that time. I am accustomed thus to fix the limb immovably, only when it no longer needs watchful supervision; and such apparently was Brichsen's rule of practice formerly. The construction of the starched bandage, and other kinds of im- movable apparatus, for fracture, should be well understood. By no means a recent invention; albumen and flour, mixed, were used by Cowper, to stiffen fracture-bandages. Powdered chalk was preferred by Lawrence; dextrine, by Yelpeau. Grum arable, with whiting, is ihe mixture recommended by Smee. Grum-shellac, with glue, has also been employed. Plaster-of-Paris, by Mathieson and Van der Loo, of Holland; also by Kluge, of Berlin, and PirogofE, of St. Petersburg. Starch was introduced by Baron Seutin, in 1834. A layer of cotton wool having Fig. 194. been wrapped round the limb, and more thickly over bony prominences, short splints of softened pasteboard are adjusted around the seat of fracture ; and, over all, a roller is applied in the ordinary manner, beginning from below upwards. A second roller is then applied, and the whole limb, thus encased, is smeared over with thick starch, which is worked in with the hands. A third roller may be used, if necessary, as additional security. The casement formed, dries firmly in a day or two. (Fig. 194.) Plaster-of-Paris has only one mechanical advantage; it dries, and sets in a few minutes. This forms the most rigidly immovable apparatus, and is espe- cially serviceable when the patient must undergo a journey. But it is much heavier, and apt to crack behind a joint, as the knee. Supported by a starched bandage, the patient can move