TJLCEEATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 219 in operation. Heat, cold, and electricity require no further considera- tion as causes of mortification, than that they operate, either by killing outright, or by inducing gangrenous inflammation; cold, however, not seeming to have the power of killing a part at once. A frost-bitten or frozen portion of the body is not irrecoverably dead. (2.) Chemical decomposing agents, on the other hand, mostly take effect by killing immediately—decomposing the living tissues with which they come in contact. Such are caustic alkalies, the concen- trated mineral acids, and other escharotics. (3.) Animal poisons introduced into the body, are generally less immediately killing to the part—i.e., they induce gangrenous inflam- mation. Bites of venomous serpents represent this class. Internal causes are perversions of the constituent elements of nutrition. Blood of a certain " quality," suitable to each part for its nourishment, and a certain " quantity " of this blood supplied to and circulated through the part; "an appropriate physical and structural condition of the part itself; " and some kind of " nervous influence ; " —these are the internal conditions which, when perverted, become internal causes of mortification. (1.) Blood-conditions, by alterations of quality, are eminently con- stitutional causes. Their pathological nature is but little understood; but their local manifestations in gangrene, having chai-acteristic appearances, are well known. Some of these blood-conditions were alluded to, in speaking of the varieties of ulcers as depending on con- stitutional causes. Other such causes more especially give rise to mortification, in various remarkable forms. Thus are produced carbuncle, boil, and the carbuncle of plague ; phlegmonous erysipelas, bloody small-pox, malignant scarlatina ; glanders, ergotism, scorbutic sloughing, noma or cancrum oris, the phagedsenic and sloughing buboes of syphilis. Other diseases of, or involving, the blood evince a tendency to gangrene; as manifested in uraemia, diabetes mellitus, septicaemia, typhus, and other fevers. Of these gangrenous diseases, those which fall within the province of surgical treatment will be described under the titles referred to. As an example of pure gangrene, from blood-disease, the following may be here noticed :— Ergotism results in gangrene of the toes or fingers, from eating bread made with the ergot of rye. The symptoms are peculiar ; red- ness and heat, with a tingling itching or crawling sensation in the skin, or sometimes a burning pain, succeeded in a few days by a sensation of cold, then loss of sensibility, and the part becomes black, hard, dry, and withered,—an extreme foi-m of dry gangrene. But a humid and putrid gangrene has been known to occur. The toes are more commonly affected than the fingers ; and the gangrene may spread up the foot and leg, even to the thigh, so that both lower extremities, black and dry as charcoal, and shrivelled, have resembled the remains of Egyptian mummies. The fever attending this gangrene is more or less pronounced, and sometimes accompanied with much delirium. Separation of the dead parts may be attended with an excruciating burning pain, followed perhaps by a distressing sensation of cold. An acute and a chronic form of the disease have been re- cognized; the former being distinguished perhaps by sevei-e general cramps, and death ensuing in from four to eight days ; while, in the latter, the patient usually survives, though with the loss of toes or