210 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. stimulant dressing. The discharge is thin and sanious; and tlie edge of the ulcer, irregular, sharp, and abrupt, evincing no disposi- tion—not to say an obstinate indisposition—to commence cicatrization. Commonly situated on the shin or lower part of the leg, an irritable sore or fissure of the anus also not unfrequently occurs, which well illustrates the pain and other characters of this variety of ulcer. It is generally connected with some disturbance of the diges- tive organs, and with constitutional irritation as distinguished from inflammatory fever. More rarely, some cause of local irritation may co-operate ; as the passage of the faeces and the contraction of the sphincter-ani muscle with regard to irritable ulcer in ano. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation is the primary consideration. Hence the rectification of the constitutional disorder, as by saline purgatives and mercurials to influence the secretion of bile. Then opiates, occasionally, will do mucli to allay the general irrita- bility. Of topical applications, nitrate of silver freely applied is the most efiicacious. Lead and opiate lotions may be recommended. Rest of the part is necessary or advantageous, as in the treatment of other ulcers; and thus, division of the sphincter-ani muscle by incision through a fissure of the anus, will relieve pain and facilitate granulation in that situation. In any case of in'itable ulcer, as healthy granulations spring up, the pain subsides; and the cicatrix formed is not more than ordinarily sensitive. (4.) QjDEMATOUS Ulcer.—In this variety of ulcer, the granulations are large, pale, translucent, and flabby, sometimes cropping up as large gelatinous masses above the level of the sore. The discharge is watery, and the margin has no disposition to commence cicatrization. Indeed, the granulations are apt to slough. This condition arises in connec- tion with a weak circulation, or it may proceed from the soddening of an ulcer by continued poulticing or other prolonged application of moisture and warmth. Treatment.—In addition to the removal of any constitutional or local cause, local treatment is often remarkably curative. An elevated position, astringent lotions, as of sulphate of zinc or nitrate of silver, and the support of a bandage, will probably succeed in reducing the granulations to the level of the ulcer, when exuberant, and strengthen their vitality, thus favouring cicatrization. (5.) Indolent, and Varicose Ulcer.—A deep and, perhaps, large excavation, presenting a flat surface,—without granulations, of a dusky or pale colour, scarcely sensitive to the touch nor disposed to bleed, and having a firm, hard base adherent to the subjacent fascia. A thin ofi^ensive discharge exudes. The edges are everted, thick, and callous, and of an opaque-white colour, owing to accumulated epider- mis ; the surrounding integument to some distance is congested, of a dusky hue, and pigment-stained, thickened, hardened, and bound down to the textures beneath. Such an ulcer is obstinately indisposed to heal. It is commonly situated on some part of the leg. An ordinary-—-non-specific—indolent ulcer does not seem to be dependent on any constitutional disorder; but it is apt to occur in weakly, ill-nourished, and perhaps ill-fed persons. The varicose ulcerj is a variety of indolent ulcer, and so named from its connection with the varicose condition of the adjoining veins. Resembling generally an ordinary indolent ulcer, it difi'ers in certain