88 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the nutritive material undergoes are of two kinds:—cliemical, in respect to its composition, plastic or formative, as productive of structure; analogous but opposite changes taking place in the course of decomposition and destruction of the textures. In any diseased modification of Nutrition, as Inflammation, the process is essentially the same in kind, differing only in degree. Hence, the products or structural results, and their appearances in course of destruction, are the same, differing only in character. Parallel, but apparently less definite, modifications of chemical composition, may be inferred. The process of Nutrition may be traced, to some extent, in certain tissues, which, being situated on the sui'face of the body, are open to observation. Epidermic tissues, namely, scarf-skin or cuticle, nails and hairs, are thus patent. The cuticle, for example, is a layer of cells overlaying the vascular and sensitive true skin. From the latter, a thin, and nearly transparent, serous fluid perpetually exudes, and in this, as a nutritive plasma or blastema, the cuticular cells are formed. Let a portion of cuticle be removed by a blister or a slight bum; the exposed surface is found to be constantly bathed with this fluid. If lightly sponged dry, the surface immediately perspires, as it were, and moistens again. The cells, first formed in this fluid, are soft and round, as seen under the microscope, in newly formed cuticle. They are also soluble in acetic acid. They give place to similar cells under- neath, and as the first formed pass upwards from the true skin, they become dry, hard, and flattened, and acquire the characters of ordinary scaly epithelium; which eventually disintegrates and desquamates from off the surface of the body. A chemical change also accompanies the maturation and destruction of cuticular cells; in this stage, they are insoluble in acetic acid. This twofold process—formative and destructive—is ever going on ; the cuticle being produced, and reduced more or less perceptibly by the decay, death, and shedding of the cuticular cells ; they having pre- viously served their function of protecting the subjacent true skin. Molecular disintegration and death, by the constant exercise of function, may be inferred, if not seen, to be proceeding in all other tissues. But constant waste, thus induced, implies constant repair, and the reparative material can only come from the blood. This vital fluid must, therefore, present an appropriate composition for the repair of each component tissue of the body, and must also be supplied in adequate quantity thereto, as all the tissues are alike undergoing incessant destruction. Assuming this twofold condition of quality and quantity of blood, due to the tissues severally ; they, on their part, select and secrete or separate from the blood-vascular system, as the common reservoir, that kind and quantity of plasma which is appropriate for their indi- vidual nutritive maintenance. The blood is thus left reduced m quantity, and, moreover, deprived of those constituents which have entered into the formation of the tissues. But, as each tissue draws its own particular nourishment, the residual mass of blood, m circu- lation, becomes relatively adapted, in quality, for the proper nourish- ment of other tissues, of dissimilar composition. The tissues, severally, in their functional relation to blood-elaboration, may therefore be regarded as excreting organs.