THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 22 fever, and the power of repair is unaffected by tlie constitutional peculiarity. pertain Uood diseases prohibit any operation, otherwise than one of immediate necessity for the preservation of life; as hernia or tracheotomy. Thus, any operation of choice should be postponed when the patient is labouring under erysipelas or pyasmia. Other diseases have not a fatal tendency, yet their existence is adverse to the successful result of an operation. Such are scrofula, and the con- tamination of the system by malignant disease. In the latter case, an operation will be almost surely followed by a return of the disease, in situ, or its development in some distant part. Heart disease, aiid particularly fatty degeneration of this organ, should make the Surgeon consider the necessity or the advantage of any operation attended with much loss of blood or shock to the nervous system. Consequently, when the pulse is habitually feeble, irregular, and perhaps slow, the patient breathless on slight exertion, and marked with the arcus senilis; these symptoms co-existing, almost surely in- dicate fatty degeneration of the heart, and should warn the Surgeon that he has a bad subject to deal with. Lung disease does not seem to have so important a relation to Surgical Operations. This may, perhaps, be explained by the fact that after any severe operation, the patient being confined to bed, there is no sjDecial demand on the function of the lungs as the organs of respiration. As double organs also, one may be more or less diseased and incapacitated, and the other fulfil a double or compensatory function, and especially in the case of old-standing disease. Phthisis is an exceptionally unfavourable condition, and particularly if this disease be in an active state or in an advanced stage. The operation for fistula in ano, a disease often co-existing, should not be performed under these circumstances. The Digestive Organs play a most important part with regard to the result of surgical operations, and disorders or derangements of these organs demand the most careful consideration. Obviously this is due to the necessity arising after any operation of magnitude, for an extra supply of nutritive material to meet the demands of the reparative process, a supply which implies an active state of the digestive organs incompatible with any kind of indigestion. Irritable dyspepsia, and hepatic derangement, terms not very definite, but sufiiciently familiar in practice, represent the conditions which are most adverse to surgical procedures. The Kidneys and Slcin, as excretory organs, have a grand relation to surgical operations by purifying the blood of noxious matter, the reten- tion of which would inevitably spoil the material requisite for reparation. Disease of the kidneys, in the various forms of degeneration, accom- panied with albuminous urine, and the retention of urea in the blood, constitutes the most unpropitious condition under which a patient can be subjected to operation. The wound is apt to undergo diffuse in- flammation and sloughing, while the patient sinks rapidly from the exhaustion of blood-poisoning. This seems to arise from the local products of inflammation, thus induced, becoming absorbed, and which accumulating in the blood, soon overwhelm the system beyond the endurance of life, when already oppressed by the urasmic poisoning. In this condition also, both kidneys are diseased, so that there is no