GEKERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 186 organization. And tliis co-operation is continued throughout life, in health. But the activity of all the functions—nutrition, for example- varies considerably during the successive periods of existence. After birth and with an independent existence, during infancy, youth, and adolescence to maturity, the function of nutrition is yet more one of groiotli and development. During mature manhood or womanhood, this function is simply one of maintenance, to repair the muscular waste of the body consequent on the functional exercise of its various members and organs. Lastly, as age approaches, and during decrepitude, the nutritive power of the body proportionately declines. Waste is still repaired; but the textural structure repro- duced is an imperfect representation only, not a copy, of either its original or mature condition; it is a retrogression of textural structure, effected by a degenerative modification of nutrition. Degeneration is, therefore, only the concluding stage of the natural course of healthy nutrition, and as the retrogression of textural structure ex- tends more or less throughout the body, and certainly pervades vital organs, the whole organism retrogrades or reverts to the unorganized matter whence it came. Earth returns to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust. To die by degeneration is, therefore, as natural as to live by growth and development, and by the subsequent maintenance only of nutrition. This function is, indeed, the consummation and resultant of all the other organic functions; and when in the order of nature they decline, nutrition declines also into degeneration, which it then Represents. But this ultimate modification of nutrition is sufficient for life as age advances, all other functions declining at the same time, and in due proportion. The senile retrogression of textural structure, thus effected, cannot, in any sense, be designated a diseased condition, nor the result of any moi'bid process. Nor again, when degeneration, natural to advancing and advanced life, occurs prematurely, can it then be regarded as a morbid process of nutrition, issuing in a diseased condition of textural structure. It is only premature old age ; but the individual overtaken by degeneration is the subject of defective nutrition, and in this sense only, retrogression of textural structure by degeneration ranks, and may be classed, with morbid products of Nutrition. Degeneration, whether senile or premature, is a form of atrophy: but it is so by a deterioration of structural quality, not by a mere diminution of quantity. And, be it observed, this structural deteriora- tion is effected by the relapse or falling back from a higher condition to a lower or more elementary grade of textural structure, or even to an altogether structureless condition. It moreover, takes the place of or substitutes the proper elements of the original texture, which disappear. This relapse and siihstitution of textural structure, are the essential characteristics of Degenerative transformation. By substitution, it is distinjruished from the transformation of texture resulting from simply Disintegration. Causes.—Analogy and facts alike concur to render the conclusion liighly probable that degeneration, as being a modification of nutrition, is caused primarily by an appropriate blood-disease, in regard to each kind, of which it is the local and anatomical manifestation. On the other hand—as Paget observes—degeneration, like simple atrophy of quantity may arise from local causes, and apparently the