INCISED WOUND. 365 Coaptation.—TLo coaptation of an incised wound miglit be post- poned, until the wound has become glazed and adhesive. Then re- parative material begins to exude. This indication as to time was always observed by Mr. Listen, with regard to the amputation-wound of a limb, and all other large wounds. The deeper and more extensive the wound, the more advisable is it to wait this event; with one ex- ception,—a deep muscular wound, which retracting and gaping, non- interference would allow the muscles to become agglutinated within their sheathing fascise. But the general rule, applicable alike to small cuts, or to extensive and deep incisions, accidental or surgical, is this : haamorrhage having ceased or been arrested, and any foreign body, accidentally present, having been removed, the wound is now prepared to undergo the process of reparation. (1.) Goaptation signifies the adjustment of the opposed surfaces in even contact. This, however, implies a suitable position of the part, to relax any muscular action or tension. (2.) Retentive Appliances.—Dressing.—The maintenance of coapt- ation during the j)rocess of adhesion, also implies the same attention to position, and some kind of retentive appliance; both being necessary to insure rest'. In the selection of any such appliance, the plastic nature of the healing process would indicate that the less retentive it is, the better; provided only it be suflB.cient to maintain easy apjDosition. The Surgeon should always consider his mechanical dressings in this light; that he may the more exactly reduce them to co-operative con- formity with the course of reparation. And by clearly understanding the proper management of a typical form of Injury, which occurs so frequently in Surgical Practice, as does an incised wound, and which represents nine-tenths of surgical operations, he will be enabled to take a commanding view of his art. The appliances in question are designed to maintain the ajoposition of either the lips, or the surfaces, of the wound. Plaster, sutures, or both, fulfil the one intention; a bandage, with or without light com- presses, accomplish the other purpose. The plaster, commonly used, is the adhesive—diachylon—plaster. Isinglass plaster, introduced by Mr. Liston, is, however, preferable. It is equally adhesive, quite unirritating, and transparent, so that the progress of healing can be watched from day to day. If common adhesive plaster be used, the remark of Professor Gross is of some practical importance. It should be cut in the direction of its length, the texture in breadth being more yielding; so that if cu.t in that direction, the plaster is apt to become loosened when heated by the skin. Any blood or dirt around the wound having been washed off, the surface is lightly wiped dry with a clean soft cloth. If blood be allowed to remain, it stiffens, tightens, and irritates ; nor can it be removed subsequently without an unwarrantable degree of handling and rubbing. Thus also, any hair on the part is better cut off in the first instance. Strips of plaster, of length and breadth suitable to the size of the wound, are then applied; and most advantageously, by placing the first strip over the centre, and another on either side alternately^ leaving intervals between them wherever the edges of the wound lie in even and easy apposition. Any oozing is thus allowed to escape, the more so from a deep wound. Sutures are made of silk twist; or metallic wire, of various kinds;