2 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. Special Surgical Pathology may bo subdivided into injuries and diseases of tbe Textures and Textural Systems—6.(7., the Skin and the Vascular System, and those which, with malformations, pertain to Organs and Regions—e.^^., the Organs of Special Sense, and of Repro- duction. The latter subdivision, as a mode of classification, makes no pretension to any scientific distinctions; it is simply an anatomical or a topographical arrangement of morbid conditions. In relation to Anatomy and Physiology, the truth has become fully recognized that disease is not an independent entity in the body, as if foreign to the healthy organism; but that Pathology represents only modes of living and modes of dying; although the line of transition from healthy to diseased states, in regard to structure and function, is indefinite, and variable in the history of every individual existence. But the student must ascend to yet higher ground than this in his contemplation of modern Surgery as a Science. Animated, or rather inspired, by a far more comprehensive spirit of inquiry, than that which relates to the human species alone, John Hunter's view of Pathology was an extension of a colossal Physiology, and a corre- sponding Anatomy, embracing the whole living creation. It was from this vast range of Biological Science that Hunter sought to interpret the structural conditions and the phenomena of life in any one species; and thus, for example, to enlighten our otherwise isolated knowledge of human anatomy, physiology, and pathology;—of man, structurally and functionally, in the states of health and disease. From this elevated point of view we must look, to justly appreciate the Hunterian conception, and its influence on the British School of Surgery. Sub- sequently, it became apparent how largely and intimately the Sciences of Physics and Chemistry enter into this system of Biology; and thence we might trace the grand contributions of the Continental Schools, more especially, and particularly in Germany and France. Here, then, we discern the three primary elements of modem Scientific Medicine. The more immediate sense, however, in which Modern Surgery claims the rank of a Science, is by virtue of the progress of Pathology; —of that Science which teaches the nature of all the abnormal or diseased changes which the living organism is liable to undergo; the causes of such conditions; their vital course, terminations, and conse- quences. In this country, the section of Pathology which relates to Surgery first assumed a representative position, mainly by the labours of Sir James Paget, as recorded in his renowned "Lectures," and " The Pathological Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons;" while, in Germany particularly. Surgical Pathology has been developed chiefly by the genius of Virchow and Billroth. Regarded as a scientific Art, the Practice of Surgery has a corre- sponding derivation from Science. The pathology of injuries and diseases, taken individually, em- braces : (1) the particular structural condition presented, its signs and symptoms, and its diagnosis or detection and discrimination from other conditions; (2) its cause or causes, or etiology, and the effects of the morbid condition itself as a cause; (3) its course, terminations, and consequences, and the prognosis or foreknowledge of these events. The treatment in any case may be operative, or medicinal, or both.