SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 548 Fig. 167. mg along the back of the tHgh, beneath the fascia, nearly corresponds with this depression ; and a little below the knee it perforates the fascia to become subcutaneous. The external or short saphenous nerve, a branch of the internal popliteal, descends, beneath the fascia, between the heads of the_ gastrocnemius to the middle of the leg; perforating the fascia, it is joined by a communicating branch from the external popliteal, and accompanies the external saphenous vein. The external OT short saphenous vein coursing up the back of the leg, in the super- ficial fascia, passes between the heads of the gastrocnemius, and perforates the fascia there, or lower down, to enter the popliteal vein. It thus lies over the course of the short saphenous nerve, separated by the fascia lata. The Branches of the popliteal artery are not of much importance, surgically. Supplying the muscle, and the joint, the latter branches are the superior articular—^inner and outer; the inferior articular— inner and outer; and the azygos, which enters the back of the joint through the posterior ligament. Operation.—The popliteal arteiy is reached by a vertical incision, in the middle line, from about three inches above the centre of the popliteal space and carried down to the extent of four inches. (Fig. 167.) Dividing the skin, superficial fascia, and fascia lata, the tendon of the semi-tendinosus is exposed internally, and the incision continued cautiously along its outer border. The internal popliteal nerve and the pop- liteal vein are seen, particularly the latter, lying superficial to, and somewhat to the outer side of the artery. Slightly flexing the joint, the semi-tendin- osus and semi-membranosus muscles are drawn inwards with a curved retractor; the vein being gently separated from the artery, it is protected in like manner externally, thus bringing the vessel more clearly into view; and the aneurism-needle should then be passed from without inwards, be- tween the vessels. LlGATTJEE OF THE ANTERIOR TiBiAL Artert.—Surgical Anatomy.— The anterior tibial artery extends from the bifurcation of the popliteal, at the lower border of the popliteus muscle, to the front of the ankle- joint; thence to the posterior part of the first interosseous space, it is named the dorsal artery ot the foot. Directed, at first forwards, through the aperture above the interosseous membrane, the anterior tibial passes downwards and forwards to the foot. (Fig. 168.) Situated ex- ternally to the shaft of the tibia, in the upper two-thirds of its extent, the artery inclines in front of the tibia, in the lower third. Deeply placed above, between the muscles, in the upper two-thirds of its course, it becomes superficial below, between their tendons, and in front of the tibia and ankle-joint. The anterior tibial artery rests on the interosseous membrane, and then on front of the tibia and ankle-joint. It lies between the muscles above; first, between the tibialis anticus internally, and the extensor longus digitorum externally, in the upper third of its course ; and then between the same muscle internally, and the extensor proprius pollicis externally; but beneath the anterior annular ligament, the tendon of