472 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. placed at the bottom of the sac, over its mouth; and of sufficient size to be secured in position bj a roller, evenly applied. Then comes the question of how to permanently arrest the hasmorrhage ? The diseased state of the artery immediately above and below the sac, in idiopathic aneurism, forbids the application of a double ligature in situ, as by the old operation. Ligature of the artery higher up than was performed prior to suppuration, would probably be the turning-point for the commencement of gangrene. In this dilemma, the Surgeon may advantageously wait and see what Nature can accomplish, as the healing process of granulation closes over the arterial aperture in the sac; guarded always by the compress, and during its reapplication occasionally, by tightening the tourniquet. This faithful following up of Nature's operation having failed, our only resource is amputation. 5. Secondary hcemorrhage from the operation-wound, after ligature by the Hunterian method, is an event unconnected with the course of Aneui'ism. It is a failure of the operation; and, as it arises from sloughing of the included portion of artery before the preparatory closure of either or both ends of the vessel has taken place, the haemorrhage occurs whenever the ligature separates. The average time was the eighteenth day, in 54 cases, recorded by Dr. Crisp, of ligature applied to the femoral artery. It is more likely to occur, the nearer the artery is to the heart, the central force of the circulation. The treatment in this case is not presumed to be restricted by any diseased state of the artery, at the seat of ligature. Consequently, the reapplication of tvto ligatures, one to each end of the artery at the point of division, will most probably prove effectual; the former operation-wound having been just sufficiently reopened for this purpose. Temporarily, the heemorrhage may be arrested or checked by plugging with sponge or lint. Statistical Results.—Ligature for Aneurism shows a considerable mortality. In 256 cases of this operation on the larger arteries, the deaths were about 22 per cent. This was shown by Dr. Crisp's tables. The result of investigations by Porta is even more startling. In 600 cases of ligature for diseases and injuries indiscriminately, the mortality rose to 27 per cent. Then again, as compared with com- fression, the balance is decidedly in favour of the latter mode of treatment. Thus, according to Norris, of 188 cases of ligature for femoral and popliteal aneurisms, 142 were cured, 46 died, 6 limbs were amputated; in 10 suppuration of the sac supervened, and in 2 gangrene of the foot; giving a total of deaths about 1 to 4, and failures 1 to 3. Whereas of 32 compression cases, also of femoral and popliteal aneurisms, collected by Bellingham, 26 were cured, in 1 liga- ture was resorted to after compression had failed, in 2 amputation became necessary, in 1 death occurred from erysipelas, in 1 from chest-disease, and in 1 instance the pressure was discontinued. The failures of compression were, therefore, only as 1 to 5-3; and the deaths only as 1 to 16. Even where compression itself fails, it most advantageously prepares the way for success by ligature. Thus, ac- cording to Mr. Hutchinson's Report, in 22 cases of ligature of the femoral artery, previously treated by compression,. 2 only died of gangrene; whereas, in only 10 such cases, without preparatory com- pression, 3 deaths occurred from this cause.