GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. 138 portas. (Andral.) In or under the tongue, this species of tumour has been known to occur. (Listen. Paget.) Origin.—Fatty tumour is very rare in children, but not unfrequently begins in youth, though, growing slowly, it may be overlooked for many years; it may begin to grow at any later age, but very seldom appears first in old age. This kind of tumour scarcely ever seems to be hereditary. Sometimes it has so appeared after fever or some general illness, as to seem due to a constitutional cause. It is some- times referable to local causes, as a blow, or, more commonly, frequent friction, as by a strap or band over the skin. But in the majority of cases, no good cause whatever can be assigned. Course.—The influence of a fatty tumour is purely local and me- chanical. The rate of growth is generally very slow, sometimes fitful, very rarely rapid. It does not return, even when partially removed. It is not liable to ulcerate, but I have seen ulceration of the skin, ap- parently resulting from weight and friction, in the most dependent part of a pendulous fatty tumour in the thigh. Treatment.—Absorption of a fatty tumour is perhaps possible, under the influence of medicinal treatment. Thus, this kind of growth is said to disappear occasionally under the influence of liquor potassse, administered in half-drachm doses, gradually increased to a drachm, and continued for a month or more. In one case, the tumour was sensibly diminished in size by this mode of treatment, which was originally tried by Sir B. Brodie. Excision, as a rule, is the only successful treatment. It is rendered necessary by the large size to which a fatty tumour generally attains ; and especially when the mass is so placed—which, however, is not generally the case—that by its further enlargement, it would encroach on important parts adjacent, thereby rendering the operation eventually difiicult or impracticable. The freedom with which a fatty tumour shifts its place, owing to the loose cellular connections of its thin di'y capsule, is an additional reason for timely performance of the operation. I have thus had occasion to remove a fatty tumour from the cheek, from the shoulder overhanging the axilla, and from other situations. The operation itself, although perhaps extensive, is easily performed. Dissection, even among parts of anatomical importance, is scarcely I'equisite. The lobulated mass rolls out of its bed or is easily detached, until some corner appears where the nutrient vessels enter. Haemor- rhage is inconsiderable, but when these vessels are divided, a ligature or two may be needed. Any small portion of the tumour left behind is immaterial, it ceases to grow. The portion of skin to be removed is not so extensive as would at first sight appear necessary. Any small portion spoilt by pressure and any superfluous portion, may be included in the excision; but the remaining integument will retract and pucker up, after the operation. Sarcomatous Tumours.—A large class of tumours are comprised under the common term Sarcoma; including the Fibro-cellular, the Fibrous, the Cartilaginous, and their varieties; also Glioma, Myxoma, and Granulation Tumours; or, all those Growths, the structure of which consists of fibro-cellular tissue, connective tissue, in various de- velojjmental conditions. But although the term Sarcoma, known since the days of Abernethy, has been revived by Virchow, Billroth, and other eminent pathologists, and adopted in some surgical works ; yet