SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 722 with subsequently friction daily to revive the dormant muscles. Ample time must be allowed for firm re-union of the ligaments or other lacerated textures; failing which, the joint will be permanently weakened and ever liable to re-dislocation. On the other hand, judi- cious exercise of the joint, by passive motion occasionally, will prevent the tendency, otherwise, to some degree of anchylosis and permanent stiffness; with the irrecoverable loss of muscular power in the limb. Thus, in ten days or a fortnight, the Surgeon may begin to put the joint gradually through its movements ; especially the more firmly secured joints, as the hip and elbow; the shoulder-joint, being naturally looser, must be handled more lightly. Some months may elapse ere . the patient regains free use of the joint and power in the limb. Compound Dislocation.—Stntdural Condition, and Diagnostic Cha- racters.—Compound Dislocation is, essentially. Dislocation with a wound in the skin communicating; thereby exposing the injured joint, however indirectly, to the action of the air. The structural disorgani- zation, as regards the state of the joint, is the same as in simple dis- cation; but compound dislocation is usually accompanied with mor ■ severe contusion or laceration of the surrounding soft textures. Thi- condition, coupled with that of the aperture externally, which is also contused or lacerated, together form a Contused or Lacerated Wound, connected with, and around, a Dislocation. The Signs of this injury are the same as those of simple dislocation, with the additional and distinctive character of an external irregular wound. In short, both the condition and characters are those of simple Dislocation, pZzis those of contused or lacerated Wound. Compound dislocation occurs most frequently in the ankle-joint, occasionally in the knee and elbow ; rarely in the shoulder and wrist: and very rarely in the hip-joint. Of the smaller joints, compound dislocations of the astragalus, and of the thumb, are most common. Causes, and Effects of Compound Dislocation.—Here also the patho- logical history is that of simple dislocation, with certain peculiarities superadded. Generally speaking, the dislocated bone having passed through the adjoining soft parts, in the direction of the displacement, and come to the surface, it protrudes through the skin; and thus the wound is an extension of the injury from loithin. But, in some cases, external violence is the cause of the wound in the skin and subjacent soft parts, as well as of the connected dislocation; which may then be regarded as produced by an extension of the injury from witliout. In the one case, the force is applied indirectly, to the bone at some dis- tance off, and the injury is more a laceration, and less extensive; in the other case, the force is applied directly to the joint, and tlie injury is more a contusion. In both cases, the lacerated or contused textures are damaged beyond the apparent extent of injury; and the shock to the nervous system is more severe than with simple dislocation, owing to the gi-eater damage to the soft parts, including nerves. Tetanus is, perhaps, more likely to ensue than after a contused or lacerated wound alone, and especially if the compound dislocation be that of a ginglymoid joint, as of the thumb. Injuries of unyielding fibrous or ligamentous textures are generally prone to induce Tetanus. The textures injured, being in a state of disintegration, die, at least to some extent around, if the wound be allowed to remain open. This purely traumatic gangrene is the same as that caused by a