85 INFLAMMATION. mcmhrane; and as it absorbs old pus, as well as secretes new matter, \ the abscess is gradually concocted or ripens. _ ] The Signs are now those of abscess. The throbbing pain, heat, ^ and redness, all tbe signs of previous active hyperaemia, are mitigated , by the yielding resistance of pus as compared with that of partially I solid lymph.; unless the matter be confined under any unyielding | texture, sucli as a fascia, or within bone. But a fluid and fluctuating, elastic swelling is presented, rather than one having the solidity of coagulated lymph, or the softness of pus diffused. To detect the presence j of matter, a gentle tapping pressure with one or two fingers may suffice to convey the sensation of fluid; or, by this digitation on one side of the abscess, while the fingers of the other hand are lightly applied to the opposite side, a fluid stroke, or a wave-motion—fluctua- tion—will be more or less distinctly felt. According t© the depth of the matter, so must these manipulations vary in degree; but the sense of touch varies also in different individuals, and the Student \ should lose no opportunity of gaining the " tactus eruditus." ; i Fig. 22.* \ Like any other structure, pyogenic membrane may lose its func- tional power; then, pus-secretion failing, while absorption continues and prevails, the abscess dwindles and gradually disappears; or, retaining its power unimpaired, secretion and absorption are, perhaps, equally balanced, and the abscess remains stationary and becomes chronic. This form of abscess often occurs in the cellular texture, but usually in connection with dead bone—necrosis—or within the sub- stance of a bone, as in the head of the tibia; and in the lymphatic glands or the salivary glands, chronic abscess is not uncommon ; although in these parts, owing to the constitutional character of the suppuration, this abscess is usually named scrofulous. The signs are still those of abscess, as a fluid, fluctuating swelling; but the pain is less, unless maintained by some source of irritation, as in necrosis, and there is little heat, or redness. Yet the pyogenic membi'ane may acquire a higher degree of secretory power; pus accumulates, the membrane itself grows proportionately, and the abscess enlarges. The pus- * Section of abscess. (Diagram after Paget.)* I