'^^^ SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. connection witli the margin of the condyle ; the thick margin of the cartilage thus becoming interposed between the articulating surfaces of the opposed condyles of the femur and tibia; or, part of the cartU lage slipping before or behind the condyle, the articular surfaces are Vra qoR * brought into contact. An analogous condition, j?iG. dJb. m relation to the symptoms thence arising, may also occur, by the interposition either of a frao-. mcnt of one of the cartilages (Fig. 396), or of an hypertrophied portion of cartilage, or of a false cartilage—a new formation, moving about more or less freely within the joint. Symptoms and Causes.—Sudden inability to use the joint is felt, which becomes locked, while walking, or by striking the toe against some- thing, or by tripping the foot. Intense and nauseating pain accompanies this sudden locking of the joint, and the person falls to the ground. Any slight twist of the leg, as in bed, by the mere weight of the bed-clothes hanging upon the toes, has been known to produce the same effect. In either case, the joint is slightly flexed, and the leg perhaps somewhat rotated. Considerable swelling of the knee rapidly supervenes, and the synovial capsule becomes distended with fluid ; in short, suj3acute synovitis ensues from this injury. It is very likely to recur, again and again; thus rendering the prognosis unfavourable. Treatment.—This "internal derangement" disappears, in most cases, as easily as it was produced. Flexion, with sudden extension, and slight rotation of the leg, will generally overcome the difficulty, if indeed it should not suddenly right itself. Immediately, the motions of the joint become free and painless, so that the individual can walk about as if nothing had happened. But it is better to place the joint at rest for a while, to subdue any synovitis which may have supervened, and then support the knee for some time by means of a knee-cap, to guard against the liability of recurrence. Compound Dislocation of the Knee-joint.—This injury must be regarded as the most perilous of its kind, but fortunately it is of rare occurrence. Treatment.—An attempt to preserve the limb will scarcely ever prove successful; and, excepting in a few cases of more limited damage to the popliteal vessels, nerves, and the integuments, where excision may be sufficient, amputation is the only resource. The injunction originally given by Sir A. Cooper, to sacrifice the limb, will generally be unavoidable for the probable jireservation of life. Congenital Dislocations of the Knee.—The head of the tibia has been found, at birth, dislocated in various directions: forwards, back- wards, inwards, outwards, inwards and backwards, outwards and backwards, and simply rotated inwards. The first-named dislocation is much the most frequent; and the majority of all these congenital dislocations were incomplete. Double dislocations have been found in some instances. Thus, both tibia) were displaced backwards in an infant otherwise deformed, according to Chaussicr's observations. * Univ. Coll. Mus., 284.