DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP-JOINT. 767 being hooked to a ring or staple driven into the wall or some firmly fixed object, in a line with the thigh. A padded perineal hand, for connter-extension, must be secured in like manner. An apparatus of this kind, and well adapted for the purpose, is manufactured by Messrs. Weiss. The cord of the pulleys may be intrusted to an assistant, the Surgeon taking charge of the thigh and hip. Extension should be made sloroly, gradually increased, and steadily maintained. The great trochanter will be observed to descend, and to come more into position, as extension proceeds; the upper part of the thigh should then be raised with one hand or by means of a towel passed under the thigh, in order to lift the head of the femur over the prominent brim of the acetabulum; while, at the same time, the thigh is rotated out- wards with the other hand, thus to incline the head of the bone downwards and forwards; it will, generally, be felt to slip in with a jerk, rather than a snap, the muscles being worn out beyond the power of any sudden contraction. On relaxing the extension, the perceptible disappearance of the signs of dislocation, in the length of the limb, etc., announces the certainty of reduction. The limb must then be retained in position, to guard against the liability of re-dislocation. A long splint and bandage, as for fracture of the thigh, has been recommended for this purpose; but simply connecting the reduced limb with the sound limb, by means of a few turns of a bandage around the thighs side by side, I have always found to afford a suffi- cient security. The patient must remain in bed for ten days or a fortnight, during the reparation of the ligamentous and other tissues. Dislocation into the sciatic notch is reduced in like manner, but with greater difficulty, owing to the imbedded position of the head of the femur. (Fig. 378.) Extension should be made across the middle of the opposite thigh, and the head of the bone more lifted out of its bed; the patient inclining more to the opposite or sound side. To effectually raise the head of the bone, it is sometimes recommended that a towel, passed under the thigh, should be looped round the neck of an assistant, who, stooping over the pelvis and pressing downwards with both hands, raises his shoulders; thus bringing considerable power to bear in drawing the bone forwards towards its socket. Jarvis's adjuster is applicable, instead of pulleys, for the purpose of extension. This instrument offers the advantages of completeness in requiring no assistant, and no additional means for fixing the pelvis while the limb can be moved in any direction during the extension! Bat the great power which can be brought to bear must not be over- looked, lest serious damage be done by any undue force. Although