INFLAMMATION. 97 nates; its withdrawal is similarly beneficial. The extraction of a piece of dead bone will arrest a discbarge of pus which had continued for weeks, months, or years, and had reduced the patient to the brink of the grave. Excretions are obnoxious when decomposed, and power- fully irritant to parts not intended by nature for their reception ; as urine extravasated into the cellular texture of the scrotum. And the evacuation of excretions under these circumstances arrests the con- current inflammation. Hence the efficacy of free incisions in the scrotum in the case supposed. Of morbid products, a calculus in the kidney provokes nephritis; this inflammation ceases when the stone passes down the ureter into the bladder, and is succeeded by cystitis, which in its turn subsides when the foreign body is removed by lithotomy or lithotrity. These examples will suffice to enforce the general rule of treatment. Whenever the exciting cause in operation—whether externally or internally—^is removable, the process of inflammation not unfrequently ceases with its removal. Fortunately also the fulfilment of this indica- tion meets the requirements of an already large class of cases, and an increasing class as our knowledge and detection of causes becomes yet more early and exact. It is thus that inflammation of local origin may often be arrested, as compared with that which depends on constitu- tional causes. In all other cases the process continues and runs its course to struc- tural results, if unopposed. The treatment required is no longer pre- ventive only, but counteractive also. (2.) Removal, therefore, of (a) the pathological conditions or elements which, co-operating, constitute inflammation; and of (h) its local consequences with their accompanying constitutional disorders ;— inflammatory fever, hectic, and gangrenous typhoid fevers. (a.) The conditions to be overruled by appropriate remedial measures comprise—accelerated textural productiveness, and accele- rated textural waste or destruction of texture; the determination of arterial blood, and any morbid quality of the blood supplied to the inflamed texture or organ; also perversions of the nervous influence. Experience has established the remedial efficacy of certain measures, both local and constitutional, and which constitute the "antiphlogistic " treatment. This term having been long since recognized in practice, it may be conveniently retained without implying any theory as to the modus operandi of the agents employed. Local antiphlogistic measures consist in rest of the part, and the application of cold, heat, or warmth, with moisture, as in the common bread-and-water poultice or moist spongio-piline epithem ; in blood- 1 letting by leeches or scarification, an elevated position of the part : inflamed; incisions, sufficient to relieve tension; antiseptic dressings; I blisters, setons, issues; caustics, as caustic-potash, mineral acids, iodine, burning heat or the actual cautery, and other strong irritants; astrin- gents, friction, pressure. Constitutional or systemic measures include — blood-letting by venesection, purgatives, diaphoretics, diuretics, starvation and the antiphlogistic regime, antimony, opium, mercury, wine, brandy, am- monia, and other stimulants ; cinchona bark, the mineral acids, and other tonics ; cod-liver oil, nutritious diet. H