302 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. body. It will be found tliat the blood coagulates round the globules of pus, and forms a solid mass which will adhere to the first surface with which it comes in contact; and it will be evident that it is not till the coagulum thus formed is broken up or dissolved that its elements can circulate with the blood. But Mr. Lee's inference from his " simple ex- perimentassumes that that which is true of blood mixed with pus out of the body, is also true of blood circulatinrj with pus in the livmrj body. The inference drawn breaks down, because the circumstances of the two cases are so essentially different. This, as Hunter said, is "putting living and dead animal matter upon the same footing, which is a con- tradiction in itself." The real objections to Cruveilhier's theory may be gathered, partly, from the process itself, described as phlebitis, advancing to suppuration. That the initial change is not in the coats of the vein affected, but consists in the formation of a coaguhim within the vessel; that the pus, so called, does not proceed from the interior of the vein, but appears in the centre of the clot; and that only when this pus-like matter, from within the coagulum, enters the circulation, pysemic symptoms supervene. To these facts may be added the positive evi- dence supplied by microscopic examination ; that this pus-like material is simply disintegrated fibrin, which has thus become changed into granular matter; a fluid, having the yellowish colour and consistence of pus, but not containing cellular elements, which are essential to-pus; in other words, it is—as Virchow expresses it—a puriform, but not a purulent, fluid. Sometimes, however, cells, like pus-corpuscles, are found associated with the granular fibrin; but these cells pre-exist within the clot, they do not originate therein, nor come from the adjoining coats of the vessel. Recent coagula are found to contain such corpuscles heaped up in masses, and which are set free by dis- integration of the enclosing fibrinous coagulum. These cells are, in fact, the pale corpuscles of the blood, which are now known to be identical with pus-corpuscles in appearance; and their pre-existence within the substance of the intra-vascular clot, explains what would othervnse seem to be the prodiiction of pus. What becomes of the red corpuscles ? They shrivel up, lose their colouring matter, and disintegrate with the fibrin; presenting a yellowish, instead of a reddish, puriform fluid. Bearing in mind this series of changes in the fibrinous coagula, and the enclosed blood-corpuscles, pale and red, we perceive how the whole process of disintegration, with perhaps the appearance of pale blood corpuscles, was mistaken for ijus-production ; although even then, the twofold fact of its occurrence, in the centre of a coagulum, and that clot-formation vpas the initial change within the vessel, might have corrected the misconception as to the nature of this pi'ocess. Moreover, it is alleged, as the result of experimental observations, that no exudation can be produced within a vein, when the blood-stream is prevented from passing through it; thus apparently disproving the possibiHty of phle- bitis having any such result. Virchow does not deny the possibility of a real phlebitis, and that it may advance to suppuration; but that it is an inflammation which affects the walls, and not the contents, of a vein; and that even abscesses may form, which cause the wall to bulge on both sides like a variolous pustule, without any coagulation of the blood ensuing in the cavity of the vessel. Sometimes, however, phlc-