SCROFULA. 231 this kind occur chiefly on the back of the hands and feet. They are very intractable. The characters of the scrofulous ulcer need not be repeated. An irregular, livid, and puckered scar is its remnant. Such cicatrices are seen mostly in the neck, near enlarged glands, and in the neighbour- hood of joints. Inflammation of the matrix of one or other of the nails is not un- common, more particularly in young persons having the scrofulous diathesis. Scrof ulo-derma ungueale, so named, begins by inflammation of the skin immediately round the edges of the nail about to be affected ; then follows considerable swelling, with vivid redness of the end of the finger, extending even to the bone, and presenting the appearance of a clubbed finger. The nail is shed, disclosing an angry raw surface, upon which, from time to time, there reappears a rugged, Hi-formed, and imperfect nail. Fungous granulations and unhealthy pus continue for perhaps many months. Other cutaneous manifestations of scrofula are noticed by some writers. Pomgo favosa, larvalis, and furfurans ; eczema impetiginodes and rubrum, in their chronic forms ; and f.hat variety of lupus which appears as small, red, button-like, indolent tubercles, chiefly on the lips and nose, occasionally on the genitals. These tubercles excoriate and run into eroding ulcers, with pale, shining, spongy granulations and encrusted margins ; or perhaps this work of destruction is concealed by a thick incrustation, which every now and then drops off, exposing its subjacent ravages. The osseous system and the joints seem to invite scrofulous inflamma- tion—in this respect somewhat contrasting with the indisposition evinced by these structures towards the syphilitic poison, unless rein- forced by mercury. The bones and joints, then, are more conspicuous in the history of scrofulous manifestations. In the extremities of long bones, or in the bones of the carpus and tarsus, their cancellated portion is specially liable to undergo scrofulous caries. Sometimes this species of mal-nutrition runs its course within the shaft of a long bone, but generally speaking, as I have said, in the neighbourhood of joints. The latter are secondarily invaded, caries so placed then being denominated "scrofulous disease of the joints." In the career of scrofula, mucous memhranes are not exempt from harm, particularly if its blood-associate, tuberculosis, be considered an ally. The eyes, ears, nose, upper lip, tongue, tonsils, salivary glands, and larynx, severally exhibit scrofulous inflammation; yet this is not altogether limited to the mucous membrane in connection with these parts. Scrofulous ophthalmia is a variety of conjunctivitis, characterized by great intolerance of light; so that the child (for this affection occurs mostly in young subjects) seeks a dark room, or buries its head m the bed-clothes, and screws its brows together with screaming agony on any attempt being made to examine the eyeball. From habitually endeavouring to exclude the light, the corrugator and orbicularis muscles become hypertrophied, eventually giving a remarkable heavi- ness of expression. When the eyelids are separated, a copious flow of tears trickles down the cheeks, excoriating the face. The eyeball is now involuntarily upturned to avoid the light, a patchy redness is observable on the conjunctiva, and vesicles or pustules are seen here