293 ERYSIPELAS. an epidem/ic; the disease seeming to be the offspring of some unknown atmospheric influence. Or again, it may have an endemic atmospheric origin; the disease arising from the overcrowding of patients in the ward of an hospital, deficient ventilation, or defective drainage. In like manner, the uncleanly dressing of wounds is an accredited source of erysipelas, and of its propagation. Predisposing causes.—Any external cause may be reinforced, at least, by conditions within the body; resulting mostly from previous habits of intemperance, previous hardships, or both, perhaps also from mental depression—cii'cumstances which have depraved the blood and enfeebled its circulation. But the disease is also most prevalent in spring and autumn, or at least when hot and cold wet weather alter- nate ; and if period of the year has some predisposing influence, so also has the period of life, they being most liable who are old in years, or old for their years. Apart from predisposing causes, erysipelas, probably, would not arise; with their concurrence the scratch of a pin only may be ap- parently the traumatic origin of this disease. Yet even in such cases its infectious character becomes developed. In one instance, noticed by Lawrence, erysipelas of the head and face, consequent on the insertion of a seton in the neck, was the only presumptive cause of this affection in two other persons. Travers, indeed, goes so far as to afiirm that he has repeatedly seen the "idiopathic" arising from the "traumatic," or this from the formei", and either from its own source. Lastly, the possibility of erysipelas arising spontaneously—that is to say, in an individual without any assignable external cause, and there- fore without infection—is, I think, indisputable. The recurrence of this disease in the same individual is possible. I can speak from my own personal experience, having had it four times severely, in my head and face, when from nine to thirteen years of age. I was then a pupil at the King's College School, and although many years have elapsed, I well remember the flaming pain, and that my face was like a distended bladder. I just mention these particulars to verify so early a reminiscence in evidence of an important fact, that susceptibility to trxie erysipelas—i.e., affecting the head and face—is not exhausted by one attack. Unlike most eruptive fevers, the blood does not lose its capability of undergoing this infection, again and again. Prognosis.—The constitutional conditions which rank as predis- posing causes of erysipelas, mainly suggest the prognosis of this disease. In persons of intemperate habits, and who are the subjects of degeneration of the kidneys, with albuminuria, or of the liver with a tendency to jaundice, erysipelas is generally fatal. In the aged, or persons of prematurely old and broken constitution, the prognosis is unfavourable. These adverse conditions owe their significance to the • retention of excrementitious matters in the blood, or blood-poisoniug, coupled with an enfeebled circulation. But the form of erysipelas, the part affected, the extent of the inflammation and the destruction of texture, the co-existence of other diseases as complications, or of various injuries when the erysipelas is of traumatic origin, have each their special share of importance in determining the issue. Thus, simple cutaneous erysipelas is less perilous than the phlegmonous or cellulo-cutaneous form of the disease; but, as affecting the head espe-