SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 542 Fig. 1G3.* in the adductor mar/nus muscle, at the junction of the middle and lower third of the femur, internally. In the upper third of the thigh, the artery lies somewhat internal to the head of the femur; in the middle third, the remaining portion of the vessel in- clines to the inner side of the shaft of the femur. In point of depth also, the first part is superficial and un- covered by muscle; the second part is deep and covered by muscle—the sartorius. In the upper third of the thigh, the femoral artery is contained in Scarpa's triangular space. (Fig. 163.) This space is bounded above by Poupart's ligament, forming the base; and laterally by the sartorius muscle on the outer side, and the adductor longus on the inner, meet- ing below in the apex. The artery passes down through the middle of this space, from mid-base to apes. But the length of the space, and con- sequently of this portion of the femoral, varies with the height at which the sartorius muscle inclines inwards and the breadth of that muscle. The artery lies on the psoas muscle, slightly tilted to its inner side under Poupart's ligament, then over the pectineus muscle separated by the profunda artery and vein in cellular tissue, and then on the femoral or companion vein, whicb intervenes between the femoral artery and adductor longus muscle at the apex of the space. Entering Hunter's canal, the artery—in this the middle third of the thigh—lies on the adductor longus, and lastly, on the adductor magnus, to the aperture of exit in that muscle. (Fig. 164.) The artery is thus slung as it were, close to the femur, on the insertions of these two muscles into the linea aspera; and it is bounded ex:ternally by the vastus internus muscle, wrapping round the inner surface of the femur to the linea aspera. Covered in the iipper third of the thigh—Scarpa's triangle, only by the skin and superficial fascia, the deep fascia or fascia lata, and by the inguinal glands; in the middle third—corresponding to Hunter's canal, the artery is also covered by the sartorius muscle, lying vertically over its course, and by an aponeurotic covering under this muscle, stretching across between the vastus internus and the tendons of the two * Scarpa's triangle.—A, sartorius muscle; b, iliacus; c, tensor fascifc latse; I), rectus fcmoris; E, pectineus; F, adductor longus; g, gracilis, a, Femoral Artery; superficial circumflex iliac (the superficial epigastric and the deep cir- cumflex iliac brandies are adjoining); c, deep epigastric; e, superficial pudic. inferior; 7; saphenous vein. Nerves: anterior crural, outside the artcrj'. 2. Branch to pectineus. .3. Middle cutaneous. 4. Internal cutaneous, f). Genito-crural. 6. External cutaneous. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections.")