778 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. distension of the joint with synovial fluid. Indirect violence is some- times the cause; as a sudden twist of the thigh inwards, while the weight of the body resting on the foot, keeps the leg turned outwards; or a fall with the knee turned inwards, and the foot outwards. Direct violence, as a blow upon the inner or outward margin of the patella, may sometimes produce dislocation outwards or inwards, respectively. These dislocations are very apt to recur. Treatment.—Reduction is easily accomplished. But although per- petually rccui'ring, or even remaining unreduced in a few cases, the use of the limb may be almost unimpaired. The patient lying on his back, the Surgeon raises the thigh towards the abdomen, so as to relax the quadriceps extensor muscle; and then by pressing the patella inwards, or outwards, over the condyle, it is at once drawn into place by the action of that muscle. (3.) In vertical dislocation, the patella turns on its axis and presents edgewise. One margin looks forwards; the other rests and is fixed in the groove between the condyles. This twist may be more or less complete; whereby the margin of the bone looks obliquely forwards, or turns almost completely round so that the posterior surface of the bone partly becomes anterior. The latter displacement is very rare; and, indeed, any vertical dislocation is uncommon, not more than fifteen examples having been recorded. Signs.—Vertical dislocation presents very characteristic appear- ances : the sharp projecting border of the patella can be clearly felt and seen under the skin, and the leg is forcibly extended, or some- times flexed slightly. The same causes may turn the bone vertically on its axis, which dis- place it laterally ; and—as Hamilton states—an incomplete lateral may be converted into a vertical dislocation, if the bone hitches on one margin, and the extensor muscle contracts suddenly and violently, thus raising the other margin, or even completely turning the bone on itself. Treatment.—deduction can sometimes be managed with tolerable facility, or it may be extremely difficult, and sometimes impracticable, the margin of the patella being, it would appear, mechanically fixed in the intercondyloid fossa. The same method of reduction is applicable as for lateral dislocation: relaxation of the muscles by raising the thigh, and pressure on the patella, laterally on both margins, but in opposite directions. Or, forcible flexion of the knee, with rotation of the tibia on the femur, may succeed; forcible flexion and extension alternately has also proved successful, or a violent effort by the patient to make these movements. This failing, suhcutaneous section of the tendon of quadriceps and of the ligamentum patellae has been resorted to. But, in a case related by Mr. B. Cooper, from " Rust's Magazine," in his edition of Sir A. Cooper's work, this proceeding was more than un- successful ; reduction was still impossible, and extensive suppuration followed, under which the patient sank and died. (4.) Displacement ujjwards can only result from relaxation, or rupture, of the ligamentum patellae; thus permitting the patella to glide upwards in front of the femur. I have seen this happen once, from forcible flexion of an anchylosed knee-joint. The Signs of such displacement are sufficiently obvious. The patella is drawn upwards, an interval appears below it, or a fold inwards when the leg is placed in an extended position ; there is also marked mobility