TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 173 cancer in 79 per cent. In calling attention to this important general fact Mr. Moore justly adds, there are covered cancers, thougli very few' which remain solitary to the end of life, and there are cancers on free surfaces which do become disseminated. The successive dissemination of cancer in the system, or primary and secondary cancer, must not be confounded with the simultaneous dissemination of cancer, or the production of more growths than one, in different parts, at the same time. The total absence, probably, of functional symptoms at an early period is apt to mislead, e.g., in cancer of the brain, lungs, liver, and stomach, organs of leading functional importance.- Thus cancers which are apparently successive may really be simultaneous. The relative tendency of the three species of cancer to affect the system secondarily, differs with respect to each. Encephaloid and scirrhus seem to dispute the first place in this aspect of their vital history. But colloid undoubtedly has here the lowest rank, as also in the other characters of malignancy. Species and shape of secondary cancer.—Encephaloid is produced in the majority of cases; Scirrhus far less frequently, and even rarely, although perhaps always secondary to scirrhus cancer of the breast (Paget); Colloid has not yet been found, in any case recorded. (Walshe.) The nodular form is that which secondary cancer usually assumes, especially in the liver, lungs, and bones. In a cicatrix, as after excision of a cancerous breast, this form of secondary cancer is very common. Nodules or button-Hke tubercles appear, which spread and coalesce ; or a hard ridge forms in the line of cicatrix. In either case the colour, whitish at first, deepens into a purpHsh-red hue. In proximate lymphatic glands, secondary cancer produces—and probably at an early period—tenderness, enlargement, and induration, increasing even to buUety hardness. Termination by Death.—This, the natural and most frequent issue of cancer, takes place in various ways, which may be concurrent or suc- cessive, (a.) By the constitutional influence of the disease on nutrition and blood-production, as manifested by cachexia; the proper cancerous death. (b.) The direct influence of the disease, locally, on various functions, e.g., of the liver, stomach, oesophagus, intestines, (c.) Haemorrhage, internally or externally, e.g., Cancer of the uterus. (d.) Exhaustion from pain and discharge, e.g., Cancer of the uterus, (e.) Mortification, e.g., cancer of the limbs. (/.) Intercurrent diseases, generally of the inflammatory class, e.g., pleurisy, or pnemonia, by cancer affecting the ribs and lungs, (g.) Substitute diseases, e.g., phthisis supplanting cancer; tubercular deposit in the lungs, for ex- ample, being pathologically equivalent to the cessation of cancer- growth in some other part of the body. Treatment.—Naturally incurable and fatal as cancer is generally, it may, as we have seen, undergo certain structural changes of a self-curative character, the purpose of which it should be the aim of therapeutics—medical and operative—to imitate. To establish this correspondence between the treatment of injuries and diseases and the processes of Pathology, in respect to their natural courses and ten- dencies, is one of the leading features of modern Surgery; and this relation of art to the indications of nature, is better illustrated