588 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. at once, but by degrees ; each adjustment being secured by a suit- able retentive appliance, placed so as to oppose the re-curving of tlie bone. In all other cases, reduction may be accomplished according to the directions just given. Coaptation of the fractured ends of bone is effected by the act of reduction in some cases. Muscular resistance having been overcome, aided by a proper position of the limb, the ends of bone readily come together, or they are easily adjusted by a little gentle manipulation. Any rough handling would further damage the soft textures round about the fracture. The ends of bone being brought parallel, their contact is announced by crepitation. This sensation and audible sign also assures the Surgeon that no portion of soft texture, as muscle, intervenes between the fragments; a condition which would impede or prevent their union. Adequate extension and counter-extension must, of course, be continued, during the application of any retentive measures ; and in some cases subsequently, as will presently appear. To maintain Goajytation—to retain the fractured ends of bone in adjusted contact—position must still be observed for the relaxation of any antagonistic muscles which would cause re-displacement. Flexure of the limb, in various degrees, according to circumstances, is generally most suitable; especially in fracture near a joint, where anchylosis appears inevitable. Splints of wood, pasteboard, leather, gutta-percha, or iron, and bandages, constitute the retentive appliances generally employed. Splints, made of wood, are suitable in fractures of the lower extre- mities, where more strength of material is requii-ed, as in the long splint of Desault, modified by Liston, for fractures of the thigh; and the tin trough, or Listen's modification of Mclntyre's splint, is well adapted for fracture of the leg. Bauer's wire-splints offer some advantage, in their capability of adaptation to the limb. Pasteboard, leather, or gutta-percha splints are suitable for fractures of the upper extremities. Splints are not always indispensable. In one or two fractures, coap- tation can be maintained effectually by position and bandages alone; for example, fracture of the clavicle. Two companion splints are generally requisite, one on either side of the fractured limb. Each should be broad enough to cover and protect the whole depth of the limb, but not to double over it. If too narrow, or too broad, the ban- dage applied will either exercise undue pressure, or not supjaort the unprotected soft textures, between the splints. In point of length, the splints should extend over and beyond the joint at either extremity of the broken bone; so as to fix it steadily, not by pressure on the seat of fracture, but by securing both these joints. With fracture of the thigh, the hip and knee; with fracture of the leg, the knee and ankle, are to be thus secured. " The true and proper use of splints," observes Pott, " is to preserve steadiness in the ivliole limb, without compressing the fracture at all." Hence the above rule of practice, and which he first inculcated. Splints should be comfortably padded with some light yielding material, as tow, or cotton wadding; and more particularly over prominences of bone, to prevent sloughing. Over the seat of fracture, any pressure is especially apt to peril the intervening soft textures, already damaged; while to forcibly subdue a rising end of bone by pressure, will surely induce sloughing, and rarely prove mechanically successful. Its replacement is best effected by removing the cause of