83 INFLAMMATION. upon its hand, cutting off three of its fingers. In a short time the mother also had inflammation of the corresponding three fingers of her own hand, and in twenty-four hours pus was evacuated by incision. (c.) Pus-production is determined very much by the condition of the blood. One would suppose so, judging from the analogy between pus-secretion and other efforts of the secretory power. Certain experi- ments made by Paget supply apposite illustrations. They show that the same tissue, inflamed by the same stimulus, and as near as possible in the same degree of inflammation, yields, in different persons, and in whom therefore the blood may be considered dissimilar, different forms of lymph. The inference is obvious, that blood-conditions determine the kind of product which shall be formed, or, as we may say, secreted. Blisters raised by cantharides in thirty patients gave sometimes a fibrinous, sometimes a purulent, product. It was found that in cases of purely local disease, in patients otherwise sound, the lymph formed an almost unmixed coagulum, in which, when the fluid was pressed out, the fibrin was firm, elastic, and apparently filamentous. Whereas, in cases at the opposite end of the scale, such as those of advanced phthisis, a minimum of fibrin was concealed by the crowds of corpuscles imbedded in it. Paget therefore concludes that the highest health is marked by an exudation containing the most perfect and unmixed fibrin; the lowest, by the most abundant formation of corpuscles, and their nearest approach, even in their healthy state, to the characters of pus-cells. (d.) Has continued determination of blood any influence in pro- ducing pus? It has been alleged by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, that such a result is most likely to ensue in complex and highly vascular structures, where the effused matter is retained in intimate contact with the blood-vessels; hence intensity and continuance of inflammation in the true skin, cellular textures, glands, and most parenchymatous organs, pretty surely lead to suppuration. But, if an incision be made when pus is about forming in a large boil, an abundance of solid lymph is seen agglutinating the cellular texture. Pressing as this does upon the vessels which it encompasses, they become, at least partially, occluded. And this obstruction, this solid lymph and agglutinated cellular texture, may extend for some distance, giving the external swelling a broad base. Around the periphery of the solid swelling blood plays freely, yet without pus forming there; whereas, in the centre, first appears a white spot of pus, far removed from the circumferential determination of blood. This afilux of blood goes on depositing fresh lymph, thus enlarging the swelling; while in the midst of the solid lymph and occluded vessels, more and more removed from all such external influence, suppuration proceeds. Per- sistent determination of blood, therefore, only prepares a structure for suppuration; suppuration itself is an independent process. Con- sequently, we are not surprised to discover pus in a texture where determination of blood cannot have availed much; as in the centre of a large fatty tumour, itself but ill provided with vessels for its own supply of blood; and the freest afilux of blood without suppuration, as in a gouty toe. Sirpifi of Effusion, and of Supj^uraiion.—Inflammatory Effusion is attended with swelling, in consequence of the progressive accumulation of the products of effusion. The nature of this swelling may bo