MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 29 pecfc of imimiiiity from suffering, is a condition higUy favourable to recovery afterwards. With regard to muscular action, ansBsthesia sheds a relaxing influence of special advantage in all those operations ■where any such action would interfere with the requisite procedures ; as in joint-excisions, amputations, ligature of arteries, herniotomy, colotomy, and other operations of abdominal section, and in operative procedures on the genito-urinary organs and rectum. Phenomena or Symptoms produced by the action of chloroform.— After inhalation for a time, varying considerably in different individuals, but generally of longer duration in adults who have been accustomed to the free use of narcotics, and shortest in children, symptoms of excitement are manifested by various ejaculations, and by muscular rigidity and movements requiring some restraint; but this state is soon and suddenly succeeded by complete relaxation and insensibility, accompanied with deep, heavy respiration. Or, without any previous stage of excitement, the patient may at once pass into a state of tranquil sleep. The suspension of reflex action is denoted by the absence of unconscious winking when the eye-ball is touched with the tip of the finger, as a stimulus ; a state commonly regarded as insensibility of the conjunctiva. The heart's action, and pulse, at first quickened and more forcible than natural, subsides under the influence of chloroform, and becomes slow and feeble or scarcely perceptible. The respiration also becomes feeble and imperfect, and the blood proportionately venous ; a state approaching or bordering on asphyxia. Snoring or stertorous breathing is soon induced, passing into complete obstruction to the entrance of air into the chest, although the respiratory move- ments of the thoracic walls still continue. Occasionally, without any premonitory stertor, the breathing becomes more or less suddenly obstructed, and a livid turgescence overspreads the face. Death is imminent where inhalation is carried to this degree as regards either the circulation or respiration; and whether as the result of administer- ing a highly concentrated vapour, or of long-continued inhalation. There are instances occasionally of persons who, from some peculiar idiosyncrasy of constitution, are incapable of being affected by chloro- form ; they are proof against its anassthetic influence. Thus, I have known four ounces of chloroform administered to a lady, by inhalation, without producing the slightest effect. Gontra-indications to the employment of chloroform.—Certain con- stitutional conditions and organic diseases, are said to prohibit the use of chloroform, or to require extreme caution in its administration. The influence of shock has already been adverted to, in speaking of the phy- siological action of chloroform. Pain is not a stimulant but a depres- sant, and therefore the performance of an operation during the con- tinuance of shock, and without chloroform, would increase the collapse ; and, moreover, as already explained, the influence of this agent pro- tects the action of the heart from the tendency to cardiac syncope, resulting from the pain incident to an operation. Hence, operations may be safely performed, under the influence of chloroform, during the shock of injury; thus overturning the old rule of postponing operation, amputation for example, until the patient has recovered from the state of collapse. The system may be at once relieved from the injurious presence of a mangled limb, or life preserved where it would be hopeless to wait for returning consciousness. But, daring shock, it