SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 740 less extensive. In two cases (see supra-glenoid dislocation) the head of the humerus was partly dislodged upwards, under the acromion ; the capsule was slightly ruptured, and the long tendon of the biceps thrown out of its groove inwards, on to the smaller tuberosity of the humerus. Signs.—Certain signs are common to all three dislocations of the shoulder. These signs are—flattening of the shoulder, externally; a depression below the Fig. 346. acromion, owing to the absence of the head of the bone, and a corre- sponding projection of the acromion above (Fig. 346); the presence of the head of the bone in an abnormal situation, downwards, forwards, or backwards; some immo- bility, and inability to use the arm, and pain, particularly when the arm is moved. But the direction of the axis of the humerus or arm, and the length of the arm, with the situation of the head of the bone, are distinctive in each form of dislocation ; thereby determining its diagnosis. Dislocation dowmvards into the axilla is accompanied with some inclination of the arm outwards, in a line with the trunk, and neither backwards nor forwards; an elongation of the arm is observable, or can be ascertained by measurement,—taking the apex of the acromion as a fixed point above the joint, and the external condyle of the humerus below. The head of the humerus can be felt in the axilla. Dislocation/orioarc^s, or subclavicular, is distinguished by a direction of the arm backivards, and somewhat outwards ; with some shortening. The head of the bone can be felt under the clavicle. Dislocation haclcwards, or subspinous, is characterized by a direction of the arm forwards, and somewhat outwards, or occasionally it hangs by the side; with some shortening. The head of the bone can be fel under the spine of the scapula. Partial dislocation upwards (see supra-glenoid dislocation) characterized, principally, by the position of the head of the bone, which appears to be drawn higher up in the glenoid cavity, and un- naturally prominent in front; abduction produces a sensation of crepi- tus, the humerus rubbing under the acromion, and becoming locked as the arm is raised; and severe pain is experienced by any action of the biceps muscle. But the detection of any form of dislocation of the shoulder-joint, downwards into the axilla more particularly, may be rendered difficult,