INFLAMMATION. 71 Internal causes may be either of an exciting character, in having an immediate action ; or predisposing in their operation. Exciting internal causes comprise the blood, textures, and excre- tions of the body, severally, under peculiar circumstances ; and morbid products, organized and unorganized. Blood extravasated and decomposing is a foreign body. So also are the various textures, when dying or dead; in the form of slough of the soft tissues, sequestrum of bone. The various excretions, as urine, ffEces, bile, are irritants to the organs which naturally contain them, if such matters be in a state of decomposition; or if, being themselves healthy, they are extravasated ; as urine into the scrotum, feculent matter into the peritoneum. These excretions are peculiarly obnoxious to cellular texture and serous membi'ane. Lastly, morbid products are apt to excite inflammation. Of deposits, softened tubercle does so in the lungs and other parts ; of growths, cancer especially has this effect, the ichorous discharge more particularly being irritating. Calculi are familiar examples of unorganized products exciting inflammation in organs where they occur. For example, a stone in the kidneys provokes' nephritis'; in the bladder, cystitis. All exciting causes of inflammation, in regard to their modes of action on the part affected, may be referred perhaps to two types : the stimulant kind, like heat, which acts as an excitant of textural changes in the nutrition of the part; the depressive kind, like cold, which acts as a textural depressor. Predisposing internal causes include all those conditions which, co-operating locally, would constitute inflammation; or which, as systemic conditions, incKne towards inflammation. The body is thus rendered susceptible to the influence of exciting causes. But the pre- disposition differs relatively, according to the nature of the cause which excites inflammation. For example, an excited state of the vascular system favours the production of inflammation from local irritation; whereas, a depressed state of the vascular system favours the develop- ment of inflammation from exposure to cold. It is not easy to refer an inflammatory predisposition to any one element of inflammation; but an approach to certain illustrations of their respective influences is exhibited by the inflammation of different parts, wherein one or other of these elements predominate. Thus, tissues in a devitalized state, and ready to die under the action of stimulants or depressors, are prone to inflammation; but tissues whose reproductive power is greatest, and which are commonly also most vascular, are equally predisposed; as, for example, the skin compared with fibrous or tendinous structures; or tissues whose pro- ductive power is temporarily exalted, as during the growth of the body in childhood and youth. The more vascular organs are similarly inclined; the lungs, for example, as compared with most other organs. On the other hand, a deficient supply of blood to a part inclines to inflammation by textural starvation; as in incipient senile gangrene. The condition of the hlood is specially influential; poorness of blood— spanasmia—depending on a deficiency of animal food, is apt to induce inflammatory affections of low type, by defective nutrition; rheumatic and gouty inflammations are ever impending when an excess of lactic or of lithic acid, respectively, is in circulation; the retention of urea in the blood, as in Bright's disease of the kidneys, leads to inflammation of