GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 218 distended. The part is irrecoverably dead; mortification having ad- vanced to its second and furthest stage—the condition of sphacehis. The textures, in this condition also, may be dry and shrunken; as in senile gangrene which has advanced to sphacelus. In either case the part is insensible and cold. The anatomical condition of sphacelus is somewhat peculiar. Dis- integration of the soft textures still prevails; the bones, indeed, may have undergone but little change, otherwise than appearing dry and bloodless, their periosteum being detached; but the articular cartilages and tendons are dull and slightly softened, while all the softer textures have broken down indiscriminately, with one exception. The blood- vessels alone have escaped destruction. Thus, phlegmonous erysipelas may have laid bare several inches of the femoral artery, by sphacelus of the integuments, and yet that vessel remain intact. The blood also —stagnant and coagulated therein, after death—may remain fluid and circulating during life; or, coagulation having taken place, the vessel will be impervious, and perhaps to some distance above the seat of sphacelus. Hence the absence of heemorrhage during amputation in such cases. Causes—External and Internal; and their Operation.—The patho- logy of ulceration and mortification being essentially the same, their etiology also is the same. External causes are of three kinds: physical—as mechanical violence and injury, heat, cold, electricity; chemical decomposing agents; and vital, as animal poisons introduced into any living texture. Either of these external causes may immediately kill the part, or kill, if the tissue be vascular, by inflammation supervening and terminating, perhaps speedily, in ulceration or in mortification. (1.) Violence or injury of any kind may give rise to gangrene, which is thence denominated traumatic. It is thus distinguished from gan- grene arising from any internal, and commonly constitutional disease —e.g., a blood-condition ; and which, as a local manifestation of that disease, is thence named idiopathic gangrene. This distinction is noticed, more particularly, in connection with contusion and contused wounds. Of traumatic causes, pressure or contusion, directly applied, severely although momentarily, as by a squeeze, kills the part immediately. A finger caught in the hinge of a door may thus be squeezed to death. Pressure, continued, although less severe, excites gangrenous inflam- mation. In either case, mortification is limited to the part injured. Indirect contusion or concussion, as by a fall, produces either gan- grene or gangrenous inflammation; and the mortification will be more extensive, although still co-extensive only with the part injured. Pressure or contusion—applied directly or indirectly—chiefly injures the capillary vessels and smaller arteries; but traumatic gangrene more frequently arises from injury to larger-sized blood- vessels. Considerable hemorrhage takes place, causing gangrene, partly by pressure of the blood extravasated among the textures, partly or principally by cessation of the supply of blood requisite for nutrition. Wounds implicating the larger blood-vessels, compound fracture, and dislocation, especially operate in this way. Gangrene is not necessarily limited to the immediate and apparent seat of injury : it may extend—e.g., up a whole limb, but still only as high as the cause