13 MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. of wound, fracture, dislocation, or other injury. The further develop- ment of this principle from the subcutaneous reparation of tendons, is exemplified by the practice of tenotomy. Introduced by Stromeyer, in 1831, the subcutaneous division of tendons has become the estab- lished treatment of deformities depending on muscular contractions; and in the hands of Scarpa, Dieffenbach, Lonsdale, Little, Tamplin, W. Adams, and other surgeons, tenotomy has created that department of practice known as Qrthopasdic Surgery. . Enlarging our view of the Reparative power, we observe in the treatment of Aneurism, as now understood, only so many imitations of the modes of natural cure, by the formation of clot and obliteration of the aneurism. As one such imitation, we have the Hunterian applica- tion of ligature to a sound portion of artery, at some distance on the cardiac side of the aneurism, just to take off the force of the arterial current, and thus induce coagulation in the sac; a mode of cure which has since been fulfilled also by temporary compression, and for which Surgery is indebted principally to the Dublin school. Distal ligature, or compression, would obtain the same result in the sac, by imitating occlusion of the vessel as occurring from the impaction of a piece of clot, dislodged from the sac into the artery below ; and manipulation of the aneurism, as proposed by Sir W. Fergusson, wt)uld effect this dislodgment by a mamial procedure, which is, however, attended with considerable peril. Then again, galvano-puncture, and injection, are procdflures designed to induce coagulation, somewhat as in the event of inflammation affecting the sac—another rare mode of spontaneous cure. Not to amplify these illustrations of modern surgical treatment, as responsive to the resources of Nature, medical treatment also has under- gone a similar advancement, at least to the acknowledgment of their curative efficacy. Pew surgeons there are who will not, each from his own practical experience, concur in the convictions expressed by an eminent American writer. Dr. Bigelow, in his treatise on " Nature in Disease " : "It is difficult to view the operations of Nature divested of the interferences of Art, so much do our habits and partialities incline us to neglect the former, and to exaggerate the importance of the latter. The mass of medical testimony is always on the side of Art. Medical books are prompt to point out the cure of disease. Medical joui-nals are filled with the crude productions of aspirants to the cure of disease. Medical schools find it incumbent on them to teach the cure of disease. The young student goes forth into the world believing that if he does not cure disease, it is his own fault. Yet, when a score or two of years have passed over his head, he will come at length to the conviction that some diseases are controlled by Nature alone. He will often pause at the end of a long and anxious attendance, and ask himself how far the result of the case is different from what it would have been under less officious treatment than that which he has pursued ; how many, in the accumulated array of remedies which have supplanted each other in a patient's chamber, have actually been instrumental in doing him any real good ? He will also ask himself whether, in the course of his life, he has not had occasion to change his opinion, perhaps more than once, m regard to the management of the disease in question, and whether he does not even now feel the want of additional light ? " The term " Conservative Surgery," as originally understood, when