SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G28 Fig. 221* also be felt on extending and rotating the humerus; if the muscular development of the deltoid and the swelling consequent on contusion do not together form a cushion of such thickness as to obscure these signs, blight shortening of the arm will be discovered by measuring as compared with the other arm, the distance between the acromion and olecranon processes. Considerable pain is experienced on moving tlie arm m examination; and it hangs powerless by the side. In the case of a female, aged 81, I was led by the signs to recognize this fracture, which, having regard to the functional symptoms, had been mistaken for a sprain. Ivvpacted fracture of the anatomical neck is attended with a notable absence, or lesser degree, of the ordinary symptoms; the shaft having been driven into the head of the bone. It more resembles dislocation of the shoulder into the axilla. (2.) Eatra-capsular fracture—beyond the capsule—and of the surgical neck (Fig. 221), which includes the portion of bone below the tuberosi- ties and above the insertions of the three muscles into the bicipital groove—the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles. Fracture in this situation is, sometimes, very oblique. The shaft of the humerus, below the fracture, is drawn inwards and upwards by the action of these three muscles; and the upper fragment outwards, by other three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity, the supra-spinatus, ' infra- spinatus, and teres minor, counteracted, however, by the sub-scapularis muscle inserted into the small tuberosity. Signs.—Deformity of the shoulder is presented, under cover of the deltoid muscle, but lower down than in fracture of the anatomical neck. And, the deformity corresponding to the displacement of the two ends of bone, it consists of a double projection, inwards of the lower end, and outwards of the upper end. Mobility of the lower end, and crepitus on extension and rotation, with some inclination of the humerus inwards, and shortening of the arm, are even more perceptible .^igns. Pain, severe during any manipulative examination, owing to irritation of the axillary plexus by the shaft- fragment, and inability to use the arm, conclude the diagnosis. Separation of the ZTjji^er Epiphysis from the shaft of the humerus may occur at the line of junction, just below the tuberosities and the commencement of the surgical neck. The signs are the same as in fracture of the surgical neck. But separation of the epiphysis happens only in childhood or youth. Impacted fracture of the surgical neck is chiefly characterized by the absence, or minor degree, of the ordinary symptoms. But the fracture is too low down to be well mistaken for dislocation into the axilla. Double fracture—namely, through the anatomical neck, and also through the surgical neck of the humerus—may be noticed, as a * After Gray.