315 HOSPITAL GANGRENE. surface. Bromine, or with the bromide of potassium in solution, was introduced by Dr. M. Groldsmith, U.S.V., and is much advocated by Dr. Hamilton. This agent has proved highly efficacious as a caustic, when thoroughly applied to the gangrenous surface, previously denuded of slough, or as a disinfectant and prophylactic dressing to unhealthy wounds. Pure bromine seems to have answered far better than a compound solution with the bronide; and a strong solution, 3i. to jiv. of water, may be used with advantage to paint the integument, to the extent of an inch, around the gangrenous part, after catiterization; while a solution of half the strength, oi- to jviii., will be sufficient when applied as a dressing. To prevent the iiropagation of this gan- grene, punctilious cleanliness as regards the hands of the dresser, lint, watei-, and other appliances, should be daily observed in dressing all other wounds, even the most trivial and healthy. The bedding, also, should be changed, and clean linen furnished, as often as may be necessary to prevent their impregnation and the accumulation of fomites. Free ventilation and isolation of the patient will have similar preventive efficacy, and should not be neglected, although the disease may not be assuredly infectious. When apparently of epidemic origin, it will be necessary to remove the patients, as in a military hospital, to another locality. Constitutional treatment must have reference to the combined state of irritation and debility; by the administration of opium, quinine, and stimulants, with nutritious diet. The protective value of these measures has long since been fully established by their results. Thiis, in military hospitals, the disease is apt to occur. Tet my own experience in respect of hospital gangrene, as it appeared during the war (1855), in the hospitals in the Crimea and at Scutari, does not approach what was formerly daily observed in civil hospitals. In the Hotel Dieu, for example, it raged -without intermission for two hundred years ; so much so, that " a young surgeon," says an ancient French author, "who is bred in the Hotel Dieu, may learn the various forms of incision, operations too, and the manner of dressing wounds; but the way of curing them he cannot learn. Every patient he takes in hand must die of gangrene." Now- a-days, such scenes have passed away like a dream. This disease has not been witnessed for many years in the hospitals of this country, excepting on three occasions,—^in the Middlesex Hospital, 1835, in University College Hospital, 1841, and in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 1846-7. With these exceptions, true hospital gangrene— contagious gangrene—has not reappeared; and many experienced surgeons of the present day have no practical knowledge of it what- ever. Billroth testifies to its equal rarity in many continental hospitals, as at the Berlin Charite, and that in Zurich it is unknown. The disappearance of a disease, once so frequent, once so formidable, can only be attributed to its causes having since subsided; and they are precisely the circumstances that have been specially obviated by the hygienic arrangements of the well-appointed and well-regulated hos- pitals of recent years; nevertheless, we are still bound to recognize hospital gangrene and to remember its etiology, as the best security for our continued observance of those protective measures which can alone prevent the recurrence of this disease in future.