SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 670 and botli fragments of the Fibula also in that direction ; in fractures of the Fibula and Tibia, or of tbe Fibula alone, tbe same displacement of its fragments occurs—i.e., inwards towards the tibia; in fracture of tbe internal malleolus of the Tibia, displacement of this fragment is still inwards. Dislocation takes place, not unfrequently, in connection with each of these fractures, and with that in particular of the inner malleolus alone ; which, I believe, seldom happens without, and from, dislocation of the tibia outwards. Eespecting fractures of the fibula, Hamilton writes: " In all the fractures which have been produced by falls on the bottom of the foot, and in all except one produced by a slip of the foot, the accident was accompanied with a dislocation of the ankle ; the foot being turned outwards." The exceptional case was doubtful. Signs.—Deformity is presented, corresponding to the displacement of one or both fragments, with, perhaps, dislocation; and mobility vsdth crepitus, discovered on handling the part. Fracture of the articular end of the tibia obliquely, and of the fibula, produces a notably increased breadth of the ankle-joint, between the malleoli, with some eversion of the foot, and obliquity of its axis, the toes being turned outwards and the heel inwards. Fracture of the lower end of the fibula, and of the internal mal- leolus, or Pott's fracture, is accompanied with a very notable eversion of the foot ; the sole being turned somewhat upwards as well as out- wards, so that the outer edge is directed upwards, and the inner side downwards, on which the patient rests. Thus, Sir A. Cooper, de- scribing his own case, observes: " I broke my right fibula by falling on my right side, whilst my right foot was confined between two pieces of ice; and I could with difficulty support myself to a neighbouring house by bearing on the inner side of the foot." Causes.—Indirect violence is certainly the more common cause of these Fractures; either by a fall or jump from a height, breaking the tibia, and fibula secondarily; or by violent eversion or inversion of the foot, breaking the fibula, with the internal malleolus, or rupturing the deltoid ligament; or snapping off the inner malleolus alone. The relative frequency of the two latter modes of indirect force has been doubted; most surgical authorities regarding violent eversion as the more frequent; but Dupuytren found inversion to be the ordinary occasion of fracture. Thus, in 200 cases of broken fibula, 120 were produced by inversion or twisting the foot inwards, and GO only by eversion or rolling of the foot outwards; the remaining 20 arising from direct violence applied to the bone itself. Union of fracture—not involving the ankle-joint—takes place readily; and without any appreciable displacement, under proper management and supervision. Treatment.—In all these Fractures, Mclntyre's double-inclined plane splint, or Liston's modification of that appai-atus, will be found a most efficient means of retaining the fragments in position ; and the more so proportionately to their mobility. The trough in which the leg rests steadies the upper fragments ; the foot-piece counteracts any tendency to twisting of the foot inwards or outwards; and the sock supports the heel. Any mai'ked tendency to eversion of the foot, as in Pott's fracture, may be more effectually restrained by Dupuytren's splint: a short,