189 DEGENERATIONS. elements have undergone fatty degeneration are tliese :—The texture is softened, or if soft in its healthy condition, it has now assumed a doughy consistence, which retains any impression or mould given by the fingers, as if it were soft putty; but this fatty texture is friable, greasy, burns readily and with a bright flame, and yields, by analysis, an unusual quantity of fatty matter. It has also acquired a dirty- brown colour, here and there mottled with a dead-leaf or wash-leather colour; these patches corresponding to the most advanced stage of fatty degeneration. Muscular texture in the state of fatty degeneration well illustrates these physical characters; while the co-existing changes of minute structure are also well defined, and they are characteristic of this degeneration. I select the muscular texture of the heart, for its fibres being striated, they resemble and represent those of voluntary muscle. The fatty degeneration of this organ is also a most important question in the practice of Medicine and Surgery; and, I may add, in relation to Medico-legal Inquiry respecting the (natural) causes of sudden death. The history of our present exact knowledge respecting fatty de- generation of the heart proves beyond a doubt that this condition of its muscular texture was for a long time confounded with the mere interstitial deposit of fat in the muscular substance of this organ. For the physical appearances of both these conditions are similar. They are those which I have just described, and they contrast with the healthy characters of muscular texture. Portions of the heart, commonly of the left ventricle, have acquired a mottled yellowish appearance, chiefly visible on the interior or the external surface of the ventricle, immediately underneath the endocar- dium or pericardium. When viewed more closely, these spots present wavy transverse lines. Each spot is not abruptly defined, but tinted off into the adjoining healthy texture. If degeneration be incipient, these spots are yellowish brown ; if advanced, they have assumed a dead-leaf • colour. The muscular texture is no longer fibrous, but friable; : and if the degenerative transformation be extensive, involving a con- I siderable portion of the whole substance, the heart will have acquired ! a doughy softness, which retains any impression given by the fingers. ' The organ is palpably greasy, and its texture burns readily, and with a ' bright flame. Chemical analysis has shown that, in connection with ithis degeneration of texture, the quantity of fatty matter, and the ] proportion of olein to margarin, is much increased.* Both ventricles are more subject to this degeneration than the 1 auricles; but, although rarely, the muscular substance of the whole 1 heart may undergo the same change. The foregoing physical appearances had long since been observed by ILaennec, and previously by Dr. A. Duncan, in 1816, and would even 5 seem to have been known to Lancisi and Morgagni; but many such (observations referred to fat, merely accumulated, on the surface of the 1 heart, and deposited interstitially amongst its fibres. It was reserved ffor the microscopic researches of Rokitansky, Drs. C. J. B. Williams sand Peacock, and more especially for those of Sir James Paget, Drs. (Ormerod and Quain, to fully demonstrate the changes of structure * See " A Chemical Investigation of the Pathology of Fatty Degeneration," by Mir. J. Peel. Appendix to "Address in Medicine," by Dr. E. L. Ormerod. "Brit. iMed. Journ." 186i.