genehal pathology and surgery. 338 been attributed to the muscular contractions, as the source of increased beat; but while the experimental observations of Leyden and A. Fick, with regard to dogs, might seem to bear this interpretation, tetanus, in the human species, may be unattended with any rise of temperature, even when the disease is most acute. Causes.—Injuries of all kinds may possibly be followed by tetanus. Prom the most trifling scratch to the most terrible laceration, tetanus is liable to ensue, yet not with equal probability. But it arises most frequently from those injuries which, in point of their extent or per- sistence, by continued nervous irritation, are most conducive to the continuance of Shock. I have already noticed that variety of "prostra- tion with excitement," in which the excitement is tetanic. Bums are thus peculiarly liable to induce tetanus. Punctured, lacerated, and contused wounds, particularly in the hand or thumb, of the sole of the foot or of the toes, have a direct tetanic tendency. Unyielding fibrous textures are peculiarly revengeful in this respect. Compound fractures and dislocations, rather than the simple form of these lesions, are threatening complications ; and more so, if the fracture be oblique and playful among nerves and muscles, or if the dislocation be that of a ginglymoid joint, as the thumb. Gunshot wounds, involving possibly other forms of injury, rank high as causes. Amputation, as in the thigh, or the removal of a breast or testicle, are known causes. So also minor operations; e.g., for fistula in ano, ligature of piles, extrac- tion of a tooth, cupping, the irritation of a seton. Diseases; e.g., gangrene, ulcer of the leg, a guinea worm under the integument, caries of the tibia. In obstetric practice; abortion, retained placenta. The influence of local causes in the production of tetanus, is shown some- times by the order in which the muscles become contracted; the muscles adjoining the seat of injury being perhaps first afEected, as happened in a case of gunshot wound of the thigh under my care; and Billroth has seen tetanus confined to one limb, or even to one hand. The condition of a wound, at the time of tetanus, seems to have little relation to the disease. Thus, in one case, recorded by Hennen, cicatrization was completed on the same day that life terminated ; and Dr. Elliotson observes, that the disease has sometimes declined and ceased, although the wound daily grew worse. Period of prohation or incubation, between the local injury and the commencement of tetanus.—This period has its average limits of duration. As extremes may be mentioned a few hours, or some days,— the fifth to the fifteenth day, and up to the twenty-second day; the average being the tenth day. Tetanus arising from any of the foregoing forms of Injury, is deno- minated traumatic; as distinguished from tetanus arising from other causes, whether external or internal, unconnected with Injury, the dis- ease being then named idiopathic. But this distinction relates to origin only, and is, moreover, not always definite. Such causes include ex- posure to cold and damp, hot weather, currents of air (hot or cold), bad ventilation or atmospheric poisons, irritation of wo^-ms, sudden sup- pression of the perspiration, of the catameuial or lochial discharges, or of acute diseases, and teiTor or anxiety of mind. Predisposing causes.—The disproportion, in many cases, between the local injury and the development of tetanus, as well as the varying