SHOCK OP INJUEY.—COLLAPSE. 331 Nervous Trmomatic Belirkmi is similar to Delirium Tremens, "when the latter disorder occurs in persons of habitual intemperance. The symptoms are those of exhaustion rather than of excitement. Thus, the pulse is weak, rapid, and compressible, the skin bathed with a clammy sweat, and the tongue trembling, and coated with a creamy fur, or has a dry, brown appearance, and the patient labours under a depressed, muttering delirium; all these symptoms contrasting with those which are associated with the happy, triumphant, boisterous ex- citement which characterizes deliriiim tremens in a young and vigorous or less saturated drinker, and which may happen after a sudden debauch. But, in both forms of the disease, the delirium is peculiar; some one affair or person haunts the patient's mind, and of this he is always talking to himself—it is a busy, sight-seeing delirium; yet the delusion passes off for a few moments, when the patient is spoken to, and he answers rationally, although with a trembling agitation, broken speech, and a perplexed anxiety of countenance. Sleeplessness, Avith tremors, in a person of intemperate habits, portends an attack of this nervous delirium after injury; and which may soon be fatal—death taking place in a few hours or days, from cerebral effusion and coma, or from rapid exhaiistion. Maniacal delirium, or other phases of mental aberration, are occa- sionally induced in persons of temperate habits, by an injury or surgical operation unattended with shock. Hysteria, or a nervous temperament peculiar to the individual, would seem to be the predisposing condition in such cases. Remote constitutional consequences are said to ensue after the shock of injury; resulting perhaps in sudden death, some weeks or months after apparent recovery. Hodgkin and James have directed attention to these consequences ; but it is very difficult to connect them as such with the original shock. Th.Q p-orjnosis of shock, is always precarious and uncertain. It will depend very much on the causes, immediate and predisposing, already mentioned. And here individual predisposition is a highly important criterion; and especially the natural calmness and hopefulness, or the irritability and despondency, of a patient. Watchful nurses recognize these distinctions in their prognosis, as well as surgeons. The explana- tion is obvious, that mental dispositions are not only predisposing, but also persistent, and therefore maintaining causes of shock. Persistent conditions of bodily injury are likewise unfavourable. The extent of an injury indicates rather the immediate intensity of shock, than the pro- bability of its continuance, under treatment. A certain fall and rise of temjjerature may be taken as a sure ground of unfavourable or of favour- able prognosis; the less the decline, the more favourable, and a fall below 97 degrees is proportionately a more fatal omen ; while a rise of temperature to 100 or 102 degrees, during reaction, not later than the second day, is a salutary indication, a stationary temperature below 100 degrees being equally unfavourable; but a higher elevation to 105 or lOG degrees is an almost surely fatal sign. Age affects the decline of temperature in shock; the fall being least in the young, lower in the adult, and lowest in the aged. After surgical operations, as a general rule, if recovery ensue, the temperature falls about half a degree; the inaximum temperature of about 102 degrees is reached in from twenty- four to forty-eight hours, and then there is a descent, gradual and steady,