752 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. Fig. 360.* Dislocation of the radius alone, hacJcwards, is cliaracterized by a projection of the head of the bone behind the outer condyle, where it can be felt to rotate; while dislocation/orwarcZs is distinguished by a projection of the head of the bone in front of the humerus. In hot/, dislocations, the forearm is shortened slightly on its outer side, and inclines to that'^sule, with slight flexion, and pronation. (Pig. 360.) But the latter form of dislocation is dis- tinguished by the position of the head of the radius, and the impossibility of flexing the forearm beyond a right angle, where the head of the bone impinging on the front of the humerus brings this motion suddenly to a dead lock. This peculiarity was first shown me, when a student, by Mr. Morton, in a case many years since at the University College Hospital; and it was a well-marked sign iu another case nnder my own observation and treatment at the Royal Free Hospital. Dislocation of the head of the radius, out- wards, may be recognized chiefly by the posi- tion of the head on the outer side of the external condyle, immediately tinder the skin, where it can be felt to rotate. Causes.—Indirect violence is, probably, more commonly the cause of all these dislocations. Thus, a fall on the hand may drive both bones backwards; possibly, outwards or inwards ; the ulna alone backwards ; or the radius alone backwards or forwards. But the position of the forearm, with regard to pronation or supination, will also affect the direction of the dislocation. The former position facilitates dislocation of the radius forwards ; and a violent effort to supinate the forearm, while it is gi^asped and held firmly in a state of pronation, will occasion dislocation of the radius backwards. Twisting or wi'enching of the forearm, as by machinery, may also occasion dislocation of both bones outwards or inwards ; and less probably of either bone—the radius, in particular—backwards or forwards. The latter dislocation of this bone has been produced in children, by lifting the child suddenly from the floor by the hand, or an attempt to sustain the child when about to fall. Direct violence may also be the cause of most forms of elbow-joint dislocation. Thus, both bones may be thi'own backwards, by a blow upon the back and lower part of the humerus; or on the front and Tipper part of the forearm; or the bones are usually thrown outwards or inwards, by a blow on the side of the arm or forearm opposite to the direction of dislocation ; and, in like manner, the radius alone has been started backwards, by a blow upon the front and upper part of that bone ; or forwards, by a blow upon the back of the head of the radius. Two dislocations of the elbow I have omitted to notice, in de- scribing the etiology of these injuries. Dislocation of the radius and ulna fonvards is, however, too rare an accident to be included in any general statement. In Velpeau's case, the man was knocked down by a carriage, the wheel passing over his right arm. Dislocation of the head of the radius, outwards—the other exceptional form of injury—is a * After Liston.