533 LIGATURE OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. and deep. On the outer side, the coraco-brachialis muscle lies along this portion of the artery, thus completing its muscular relations. Enclosed in a common sheath with the artery are—the axillary vein to its inner side, and the two cords of the brachial plexus, lying to the outer side of the artery above the small pectoral. Beneath that muscle they assume a new arrangement. The lowest, or inner nervous cord, passes to the inner side of the artery, separating it from the vein ; and either cord furnishes a fasciculus, which uniting form a third cord behind the vessel. Near the lower border of the small pectoral, a fasci- culus from either primitive cord, 07iter and inkier, form the median nerve which passes to the outer side of the artery, the fasciculus from the inner cord having crossed over the vessel to join that from the outer cord. Thus the artery is surrounded with nerves in this the second portion of its course, or beneath the small pectoral muscle. Below this muscle, the vessel is even more entirely surrounded with nerves. On the outer side lie the external cutaneous as well as the larger-sized median nerve, both derived from the outer cord; on the inner side, between the artery and vein are the ulnar, internal cutaneous, and nerve of Wrisberg, all derived from the inner cord; and behind the artery are the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves, both derived from the posterior cord. Three subscapular nerves are also derived from the posterior cord, but these muscular branches have no immediate relation to the artery. Six branches are given off by the axillary artery: the superior thoracic, opposite the first intercostal space; the acromial thoracic to the pectoral and deltoid muscles; the alar thoracic, an inconstant branch to the axillary glands ; the long thoracic under the lower border of the great pectoral muscle to about the sixth intercostal space ; the subscapular branch along the lower border of the muscle so named; and the circumflex branches anterior and posterior, the latter being the larger, encircling the neck of the humerus. Operation.—Above the small pectoral muscle. An incision is made just under the clavicle, extending from near its sternal end to the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, on the inner side of the acromion. (Fig. 156.) The pectoral muscle is next divided to this extent, and the costo-coracoid sheath cautiously opened; then the cephalic vein being drawn to the outer side, thus also protecting the cords of the brachial plexus more deeply placed, the axillary vein is drawn towards the chest, and the ligature-needle passed under the artery from within out- wards. If the trunk of the acromial thoracic artery be wounded, it will bleed almost as profusely as an aperture in the axillary trunk; and the inclusion of either anterior thoracic nerve should be avoided in passing the ligature. Beneath the small pectoral muscle, the artery should not be selected