GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 242 systemic blood-letting, venesection. Usually, however, a cholagogue dose of calomel, and an aperient saline, will prove sufficiently depletory, and remove also any source of irritation from the intestinal canal. But such measures are preliminary only. Then, the colchicum and alkaline treatment is generally the most effectual anti-rheumatic. Bicarbonate of potash, in Targe doses—two scruples or half a drachm—combined with the wine of colchicum in doses of ten or twenty minims, may be administered every four hours. The joint-affections may thus subside within an average period of ten days, and the urine becomes alkaline. Sometimes the colchicum producing sickness and purging, it must be discontinued, or moderated ; but it is desirable to keep the urine alkaline for two or three days after the joint-symptoms have subsided. This plan of treatment is certainly successful in many cases. In pro- portion as s7jnovial symptoms predominate, or mix themselves distinctly with the fibrous—observes Sir Thomas Watson—in proportion as the disease approaches in its characters to gout, you may expect to be successful with colchicum. Dr. Garrod, who originated the pntash- ti'eatment in large doses, affirms that it greatly diminishes the tendency to pericarditis and endocarditis. Nitrate of potash—still in large • quantity, half an ounce to three ounces a day—is the favourite salt with some practitioners; acetate of potash with others. The late Dr. Grolding Bird trusted to the latter, given in quantities of half an ounce, much diluted, in divided doses, during the twenty-four hours. In three days only, it has been known to overcome the pain and in- flammation, leaving the joints still swollen but placid. Iodide of potassium finds favour with yet other men of experience, surgeons chiefly, and lemon juice has been advocated by Dr. Owen Rees. Both the latter agents answer better in the less acute form of rheumatism. All these agents are probably eliminative, principally through the kidneys. Calomel and opium, quickly pushed to slight salivation, is another plan of treatment. It would seem to be preferable in cases having a tendency to cardiac inflammation. Opium is, perhaps, most remedial in all cases of acute fibrous rheumatism. Sir Dominic Corrigan has great confidence in its efficacy. Beginning with one grain, repeated at short intervals in the twenty-four hours, he gradually increases the quantity up to an average of twelve grains during that period; and continues it until the disease declines. In chronic rheumatism, the compound powder of ipecacuanha (Dover's Powder), guaiacum, and sarsaparilla have reputed efficacy. It would be useless to extend the list. The general nature of the treatment of this disease, acute and chronic, may be gathered from the foregoing observations. Local treatment can scarcely be of any avail for a disease which, apparently, naturally expends itself by inflammation of whatever part or parts may become affected. Assuredly no repressive application can be salutary. Warm fomentations are calculated to lead the in- flammation, as in all other cases, to an issue by resolution. Alkaline fomentations, and especially with an alkaline and opiate solution, are found to be even more conducive to this termination. Dr. Puller, who strongly advocates such an application, usually employs a solution of carbonate of potash or soda, about half an ounce, in nine ounces of hot water, adding six drachms of liquor opii sedativus. Flannel steeped