PHLEBITIS. 567 pressure with the point of the finger being quite sufficient; and per- manently arrested by a compress of lint, secured by a bandage, over the aperture in the vein, with elevation of the limb. PHLEBiTrs.—Structural Conditions.—Inflammation of any portion of the venous system produces structural alterations in the coats of the vessels similar to those resulting from inflammation of an artery. It is said to be Adhesive or Stippurative, but more commonly the latter ; and both forms of Phlebitis are far more common than Arteritis. The coats of an inflamed vein have a dark red colour, and have be- come thickened and pulpy, owing to an interstitial fibrinous exudation; the inner coat, in particular, presents this hue—partly due to the imbi- bition of colouring matter from the blood, and a lamella of lymph is adherent to the surface. The blood within the vessel has undergone coagulation, more or less perfectly, forming a hard or soft blackish coagulum, mingled with the fibrinous exudation. Thus far phlebitis is adhesive. But pus being readily secreted within the vessel, suppura- tive phlebitis may soon be established. If limited within the boundary of the coagulum and fibrinous exudation, above and below—the pus lying between the coats of the vessel and the cqagulum, and between interrupted portions of the coagulum—this circumscribed form of suppuration has been named limited suppurative phlebitis. And, as the matter thus occluded or imprisoned cannot be transmitted into the general circulation, this condition is not productive of pyeemic infection. But if the plastic lymph-barriers within the vessel, above and below these collections of pus, give way, diffuse suppurative phlebitis ensues, and pycemia will be inevitable. This interpretation of systemic infection may, however, perhaps be abandoned in favour of more recent views relative to the pathology of Pytemia. Diffuse phlebitis signifies a spreading form of the disease, but as this character is probably never unaccompanied by suppuration, the distinction seems unnecessary. The Symptoms of Phlebitis are referable both to the vessel or vessels affected, and to the circulation in the part below. An inflamed vein is hard, cord-like, and knotted under the finger, painful or tender on pressure; and a purplish redness, with some degree of heat, may be preceptible in the course of the vessel. If the vein be varicose—a pre- existing condition not uncommon—these symptoms will be even more marked, and those of varix are superadded. The supervention of suppuration is denoted, in the limited or circumscribed form, by the symptoms of abscess in exchange for those of purely adhesive phlebitis. One or more small fluctuating swellings appear in the course of the vein; instead of its previously uniformly hard, cord-like character, which thus becomes more knotty—hard here, and softened there. In the diffuse form of suppuration, the whole tract of the vessel softens down uniformly ; fibrine, coagula, and pus commingling. Obstruction to the venous circulation, from the fibz-inous exudation and coagulation within the vessel, produces some oedema in the part below, or general swelling of a whole limb, if a large venous trunk be the seat of obstruction. In adhesive phlebitis this swelling will be most conspicuous. No blood passes through the femoral vein, for ex- ample, in this condition of phlegmasia dolens; an ari'est of circulation which soon tells on all the tributary veins throughout the limb. Its cellular texture becoming gorged with serum, the whole limb is