i>^" GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. difficulty to rectify the whole process of digestion, and also of textural assimilation m nutrition, tliau to pass the iugesta through the portal of the stomach. What diet may be most suitable, and at what intervals such food should be taken, must be left to the observation and judg- ment of the Practitioner.. CHAPTER XV. HTSTEBIA. Few diseases admit of any exact and invariable definition; chiefly because disease is not an entity,—a something superadded to the bodily organism, in conjunction with the mind; but the whole body, and per- haps the mind, in a state of disease,—although manifested in one or more parts of the body, or even when the diseased state was itself of local origin. This indefinite character is especially true of the disease termed Hysteria. Its etymological signification, as if a uterine disorder, cannot be taken as the starting-point in the clinical history of this disease,—excluding the social and hygienic circumstances of its production; for Hysteria may be fully developed without any uterine disorder, from first to last; and a disease, essentially similar, may possibly occur in the male. Perhaps, as an approximate definition, it may be said that Hysteria is a disorder of the nervous system, consisting principally of general exalted sensibility and excito-motory function, Avith an impairment of the controlling power of the will; this disorder being manifested by various nervous and muscular affections; or exhibited in functional derangements of various organs, simulating diseases of those parts, or occasionally masking and concealing their diseases; but in all of which, as forms of local hysteria, pain or other nervous symptoms are dispro- portionate to all the other symptoms, (1.) General Symjjtoms, and Diagnosis.—In the pronounced form of Hysteria, an hysteric paroxysm, or an hysterical fit, sometimes termed an "attack of hysterics," presents a combination of symptoms, wliich is easily recognized, and is familiar to common experience. The symp- toms are essentially nervous and muscular. A young woman, of sensitive and nervous temperament, is not unfrequently seized with an alarming sense of choking, as if from a ball—the globus hystericus—rising from the abdomen into the throat; this is immediately followed by panting or deep sighing respiration, with violent action of the arms, beating of the breasts, or other move- ments, as if to relieve the agony of suffocation, aggravated by dis- tressing palpitation of the heart. And the aspect of the person is peculiar. Her head is throAvn back, the face appears somewhat flushed or suffused, but without lividity and distortion of the features; the eye- lids are drooping and tremulous, half-concealing the eyes, which are bright or lustrous. She retains her consciousness, if not completely. The impulsive or uncontrollable movement of the arms, struggling as