THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 14 introduced hy Sir W. Fergusson in 1852, was restricted to operations for the preservation of some part of the body, which would otherwise have been inconsiderately and unnecessarily sacrificed. The perform- ance of some operation of removal having become necessary, in conse- quence of an incurably diseased or injured state of a part; a lesser and limited operation, the extirpation of that part alone, may then be suffi- cient, instead of an operation involving also any portion of the sound organism. ^ "With regard to two, or more, practicable operations of re- moval, this consideration of anatomical preservation may guide the Surgeon's choice. For example, excision of an incurably diseased joint may be performed, instead of amputation of the limb. Thus, observes Sir W. Fergusson, " a compromise may be made, whereby the original constitution and frame, as from the Maker's hand, may be kept, as nearly as possible, in its normal state of integrity." This, then, is Pre- servative Surgery. Surely, however, it may be said, that is simply the object of all true surgery—the preservation of limb and life. Why, therefore, designate it by the superfluous prefix—conservative? "A rose by any other name would smell as sweet; " and Surgery will be equally saving, whether called conservative or not. Yet, on looking back to the gloomy records of the past, to the reckless amputations and mutilations which were then practised, it was not, perhaps, with- out a significant reason that the true character of Surgery should have been recalled, and a rallying standard erected, for a time at least,—the standard of Conservatism. Is any such admonition still necessary ? Allied to the conservative or preservative character of Modern Surgery, as displayed in operations whereby the removal of some por- tion of the body is effected ; another aspect of Surgery has assumed an equal prominence,—its reparative character, as exhibited in the design of the various operative procedures for the restoration of parts lost, whether in consequence of injury or disease, or for the construction of parts wanting by congenital malformation. Thence the origin of " Plastic Surgery." Enlightened by physiology in the fact that each individual part of the body has its own separate vitality, and by patho- logy in the additional fact, that the whole organism is ever ready to re-acknowledge any outlying, or even detached portion, by processes of reparative union; plastic surgery has responded to these overtures of science by the contrivance of some operation of anatomical repair, in almost every region, nay in almost every hole and corner of the body. Thus, rhino-plastic operations have been devised* for the repair of structural deficiencies in the nose, these original specimens of sur- gical reparation being connected with the names of Gaspare Taglia- cozzi of Bologna, in the sixteenth century, and Oarpue, who introduced the Indian Operation, in 1814; since which period, plastic surgery has visited the lip and palate, in the operation for hare-lip and cleft-palate; while the genito-urinary organs have become the scene of busy repara- tive procedures for the cure of rectal, urinary, and uterine fistulas, by closing up these communications between adjoining passages, so as to regain their continuity ; and extroversion of the bladder has been met by various constructive procedures. The principle of surgical repara- tion has lately undergone a remarkable extension, and acquired a new signification. Plastic Surgery had availed itself of portions of integu- ment borrowed, but not detached, from adjoining parts. But the