545 LIGATUBE OF THE FEMOBAL AETEBY. scrotum or the labium pudendi; tlie superficial epigastric and super- ficial circumflex iliac pass, the one forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, and then upwards in the superficial fascia on the lower part of the abdomen, the other branch outwards across the psoas and iliacus muscles, under the fascia lata, towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The deep femoral branch or the profunda is nearly equal in size to the continuation of the femoral artery after giving off this, the largest branch. Hence the femoral trunk is spoken of as the common femoral artery, this large deep branch as the deep femoral, and the continuation of the common trunk as the superficial femoral artery. The deep femoral arises from the outer and posterior part of the common femoral artery, from an inch to two inches below Poupart's ligament. Inclining outwards over the iliacus muscle—and there giving from its outer side the external circumflex branch, and near it, the internal circumflex branch from the inner and back part of the vessel—the artery curves inwards and downwards over the pectineus, behind the femoral vessels, to gain their inner side; and passing behind the adductor longus, this deep artery continues down between that muscle and the short and great adductors ; there dividing into three perforating branches, which penetrate these muscles close to the linea aspera, to reach the muscles at the back of the thigh. The profunda lies, successively, in front of the iliacus and pectineus, the adductor brevis and adductor magnus, muscles. ■ Placed at first to the outside, and crossing inwards behind the superficial femoral, it then runs parallel to it, but deeper by the thickness of the adductor longus muscle beneath what it passes. (See Pig. 164.) The deep femoral vein accompanies the course of the artery, but superficial to it; thus being interposed between the deep and superficial femoral arteries. And where the deep artery crosses inwards behind the super- ficial artery, the superficial femoral vein passes outwards between these vessels ; thus making both femoral veins between the two arteries at that point—about the apex of Scarpa's triangle; just below which, the long adductor muscle Fig. 165. separates the arteries and their accompanying veins. The anastomotic branch, the last-named branch of the (superficial) femoral, passes off near the opening in the adductor magnus; it gives a superficial offset with the saphenous nerve, and a deep articular one in front of the tendon of the adductor, which arches outwards across the front of the lower end of the femur. Operation.—(1.) The common femoral artery may be ligatured, by an incision over its course, between the inferior margin of Poupart's liga- ment and the origin of the deep femoral— about one to two inches below. (Fig- 165.) But the results of this operation have been most unsuccessful, owing to the shortness of the trunk in this situation, and consequent freedom of the collateral circulation. (2.) The superficial femoral is easily reached as it passes out of Scarpa's triangle, under the inner border of the sartorius muscle. If 2 N