161 TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. would appear to be tbe calcareous or osseous degeneration of scirrhous, or of medullary cancer, with which it not unfrequently co-exists. Un- interrupted gradations may be traced between the osteoid variety and these typical forms of cancer. Scirrhus is subject to other species of deo-eneration, and to morbid changes in common with encephaloid. Ulceration is more frequently observed in the course of scirrhus. Colloid cancer is singularly exceptional in not presenting varieties, properly so called. Nevertheless, the quantity of fibrous stroma, or of colloid matter, may respectively predominate. If the former, then this species assumes the appearance of a very tough, white, fascia-like mass, in which are small separate cysts or cavities, filled with the colloid substance. In the opposite extreme, large masses of colloid matter appear to be only intersected by fibrous white cords or thin membranes, arranged as in areolar tissue, or in a wide-meshed network. Another variety refers to the quality of the colloid matter, rather than its quantity. It may be, or become, white and pearly, or opaque. I once met with a remarkable specimen of colloid cancer, in a female patient at the Royal Free Hospital (1862), and which I carefully examined. Most of the abdominal and pelvic viscera were affected with this disease ; namely, the stomach; the intestinal canal, which was beset ex- ternally, here and there, with pedunculated masses of colloid, somewhat resembling plums on their stalks; two colloid masses were imbedded in the spleen; the pancreas was wholly converted into the same gelatinous substance, enclosed in loculi; the bladder was distended with a trembling mass, which rolled out like a jelly, leaving the mucous membrane pulpy, ragged, and bloody. The substance of the uterus and ovaries was infiltrated with drops of colloid, together forming a mass which seemed to be incorporated with a similar con- dition of the rectum. The gelatinous matter thus extensively diffused, was in some parts white, and of brilliant pearly transparency, looking like colourless and clarified jelly throughout the pancreas, white and opaque in the spleen and uterus ; while it presented its usual amber colour and transparency in the other organs I have specifi.ed. This opacity of the colloid matter was probably due to molecular disinte- : gration. Such are the principal varieties of each of the three typical species I of cancer. Some of them are, as I have said, the result of certain : morhid changes, to which cancer itself is liable ; they are illustrations I of a pathological law which prevails extensively—that morbid products I themselves undergo morbid changes—the diseases of diseases. Hence 1 their almost numberless, and sometimes perplexing, complications. Cyst-formation.—A further illustration of this law I have yet to ; notice in relation to cancer. This production, if not one of accidental ; association, represents an actual substitution of cyst-formation for (cancer-growth, and at the expense of its own structural elements. Thus cysts may either be formed with cancer; or from and out of the ( cancer-structures, by their erring development and growth. Sir James Paget's work contains the best summary of this subject, ( of which the following is an abstract:— (1.) Respecting cysts accidentally associated with cancer, but of ' independent formation. Scirrhus of the mammary gland may occupy a portion of it only, ; in the rest of which many cysts may be formed, that are in no sense M