TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 177 able and unfavourable for operation, may be stated, approximately, as follow ; cancer of the breast being taken as the type:— (a.) Favourable for operation.—(1.) A single tumour, not diffused, and whether in the nipple, on the surface, or in the substance of the breast. (2.) When the nipple alone, or some very limited portion of the skin, is drawn in towards the subjacent tumour. In either case, the integument not being widely infected but simply dimpled, the breast may be removed. But the disease is apt to return in and around the cicatrix. This took place in the case of a scirrhous breast wHch I removed in the condition described, a small portion of skin not larger than half a crown being attached to the gland. (3.) Ulceration of a cancerous tumour does not preclude operation, if in other respects the case is suitable. (4.) The glands having become diseased to an extent which does not interfere with their removal, is a condition propor- tionately favourable for excision of the primary tumour. But the state of the glands cannot be exactly determined, otherwise than in the course of the operation, and if then found to be cancerous, they also must be removed; not necessarily, however, at that time, if such an enlarge- ment of the operation migbt be perilous. Subsequently, and as soon as the health permits, the cancerous glands should be excised. This post- ponement I had recourse to in the case of a lady whose breast I removed for cancer ; when the wound had healed, I then removed the axillary glands—by a more limited incision than a continuation of the original operation would have involved. The disease eventually returned in the breast-cicatrix. (5.) Amputation of a limb is justifiable, although the glands show some hardening or doubtful enlargement. This rule appHes both to the encephaloid and epithelial disease. (6.) Hereditary tendency, strongly manifested, does not entirely prohibit operation. In a family, of which six members were the subjects of cancer, one sister underwent excision of the breast in 1845, and another in 1846. Both remained well, until in each, with a recent recurrence of the disease, a second operation was performed in 1856 — eleven and ten years after the primary operation. In 1859 both patients were alive. (7.) Recurrent cancer may be removed under the same restrictions, as with reference to a first operation. My own experience of operation in such cases, is not favourable. In two—the original disease having been mammary scirrhus—one or two only small button-like nodules reappeared in the cicatrix; these were at once excised, yet the disease speedily returned again. (8.) Age does not prohibit the removal of a growing cancer. (&.) Unfavourable for operation.—(1.) Certain constitutional condi- tions—e.g., cancer co-existing, especially in some internal organ, or marked cancerous cachexia, albuminuria or other grave organic disease. (2.) Diffused cancer and persistent oedema. But the latter condition is significant only when circumferential; oedema remote, depending on obstruction to the circulation at the seat of disease, e.g., oedema of the hand from cancer of the arm, is not itself a prohibitive condition. In such case, I have seen the swelling subside and return ; apparently with varying states of the circulation as connected with the growth of the cancer above. (3.) Adhesion, if at all extensive, either of the skin, or subjacent textures, is decidedly prohibitive of operation. (4.) Ulcer- ation, otherwise than to a very limited extent and depth, is equally so. (5.) Cancerous tubercles in the skin over a cancer, is a condition even more unfavourable for operation. Over a mammary cancer, increasing N