GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 194 Now, the question is—Are these granules outside the vessels, or in the substance of their walls ? Patches of granules were described and figured by Pr. J. H. Bennett* in 1842, and attributed to fatty degene- ration of exudation-matter, thrown out from the vessel. In 1849, Mr. Paget t also described the same appearances, but attributed them to fatty degeneration of the vessels themselves. These latter observations referred to the smallest cerebral vessels, in connection with apoplexy, and softening of the brain, respectively. He describes the fatty granules as being situated " beneath the outer surface" of the vessels. That in small arteries of of an inch in diameter, the granules are formed in the more or less developed muscular or transversely fibrous coat; in veins, the corresponding layer, immediately within their external fibro-cellular nucleated coat; in vessels, whether arteries or veins, whose walls consist of only a simple pellucid membrane, bearing nuclei, the substance of this membrane is the first seat of the fat deposit. As this degenera- tion proceeds, the portion of vessel thus affected undergoes changes of structure, the nuclei and fibres disappearing, until at length blood- vessels of of an inch in diameter appear like tubes of homogeneous pellucid membrane, studded with oil-particles, in its substance. By this change, the proper structure of the vessels wastes, and eventually disappears, giving place to the fatty granules. Alterations of shape, also, are not uncommon. Usually, the outer layer of the wall is lifted up by one or more clusters of oil-particles, and the outline of the vessel becomes tuberous. Sometimes aneurismal dilatations form. This fatty degeneration of the smaller blood-vessels occurs most frequently in arteries of xmt of an inch in diameter; veins of the same size, or smaller, are next in order liable; and capillaries, least so. A similar degeneration of the blood-vessels of the lungs has been observed by Dittrich, and in branches of the pulmonary artery, accom- panied with tuberculous disease of the lung, by Dr. R. Hall. J The placental blood-vessels often exhibit a similar transformation; and those of the eye, in connection with arcus senilis. Fatty degeneration of the cerebro-spinal substance, and of nerve- fibres, is questionable. The brain or spinal cord may liquefy or soften, partially, or throughout its whole substance, with breaking up of the nerve-fibres, and the production of abundant granule-cells or masses, and free-floating granules ; but these changes are collectively denomi- nated by Paget " liquefactive degeneration:" and this arises from obstructed circulation through the substance of the organ, or from ab- rogation of its function. Atrophy of nerve-fibres is thus described by Waller:—At first transverse lines appear in the intra-tubular substance, indicating its loss of continuity; then it is apparently divided into round or oblong coagulated masses, as if its two component materials were mingled; they are converted into black gi-anules—resisting the action of acids and alkalies; and finally, these granules are slowly and imperfectly eliminated. Besides fatty degeneration of textures, the healthy integrity of which is most essential to life, this transformation may occur in per- haps any other texture. In the air-vesicles of the lungs, and in the * " Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal," vols. Iviii. and lix. t " Medical Gazette," vol. xiv. X " ^^d. Chir. Rev.," October, 1855.