GENEPxAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 290 iiiHammation until after a period of from twenty-four hours to two or tlu-ee days; during which interval, however, other symptoms an- nounce the approaching attack. Thus, pending erysipelas of the head and face, a diffuse inflammation of the fauces, or " sore throat," generally precedes, and accompanies, the cutaneous inflammation; and, indeed, this affection of the mucous membrane is, according to some observers, an invariable accompaniment of the initiatory fever of idiopathic erysipelas. Swelling and tenderness of the lymphatic glands may be the forerunner of an erysipelatous outburst in an adjoining part; as of the cervical glands with relation to erysipelas of the head and face. A wound or ulcer assumes an unhealthy character; the granulations losing their florid hue, and the purulent secretion becoming thin and sanious. It may be here noticed, that when erysipelatous inflammation sweeps over a cicatrix, the new tissue often begins to ooze, and threatens to reopen; as I have seen after excision of the hip-joint. But in a case of knee-joint excision, I have known a most violent attack of erysipelas pass over the seat of recent union without loosening the recent anchylosis. Blood-patJwlogy.—Erysipelas has been thus examined, yet with little result. The blood is rich in fibrin, and poor in globules; but these alterations, together with others that occur, are common to all the phlegmasise. They are not peculiar to erysipelas, and therefore not characteristic. Post-mortem examination, in the uncomplicated disease, reveals no apparent cause of death; no organic changes, except a tendency to disintegration, softening, and blood-staining, common to all blood-diseases. Causes.—Iibfection.—Erysipelas may be caused by infection—I.e., it may be produced by inhalation from a person having the disease. But this mode of production is observed only in some cases. Certain cases reported by Dr. Wells * are much to the point. An elderly man was attacked with erysipelas of the face, and died in about a week from the time when Dr. Wells first saw him, viz., on the 8th of August. On the 18th of the following month an elderly woman, landlady of the house in which the old man had been a lodger, came under the care of Dr. Wells, also with erysipelas of the face. On inquiry it was found that the old man's wife had been seized with erysipelas a few days after his decease, and had died in about a week. Another old Avoman, who had nursed the landlady, was also attacked with this disease and died. Lastly, a young man, nephew of the old man, was seized, shortly after visiting his uncle, and died in a few days. In this last case the proba- bility of infection having been the cause of erysipelas is obvious, and with some probability the same mode of propagation may be inferred respecting the whole series of cases. For the report further states, that the landlady had been several times with the old man and his wife during their sickness, and that after their death she had removed some furniture from the room they had occupied to her own apartment. Cases of like import occurred in the practice of Dr. Wells's contempo- raries—Mr. Whitfield, apothecary for very many years to St. Thomas's Hospital, Pitcairn, and Baillie, who made similar observations in St. George's Hospital during the years 1795-96. Many years afterwards, to show the growing impression in favour of this doctrine, I might * " Trana. of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir. Knowledge," ISOO, vol. ii. p. 214.