MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 25 the blood, is affected by solar light. Hence the importance of ample sun-lighting, by the arrangement of windows in the wards of Hospitals, or in the bedrooms of private patients, especially with regard to recovery after the loss of blood incident to many surgical operations.. Defective Drainage, in its causative relation to the generation of typhoid fever, is now generally acknowledged, and the noxious in- fluence of decomposing animal or vegetable sewage-matter, in surgical* practice, is too well known to need further notice. Exposure to Contagious or Infectious Matter.—Among the characters of Modern Surgery, as an Art, Preventive treatment has acquired a position of great importance. The human body is encompassed by many external causes of disease, which may be not only of a palpable kind, but exist as subtle influences, wafted about in the air or im- pregnating the water, by either of which media they may find an entrance through any breach of the cutaneous surface, and must gain admission in the act of breathing or the reception of food. Other such agents there are in the recognized form of virus, ever ready to be communicated from one affected human being to another, or from the bodies of animals through poisoned wounds. Here, then, are so many sources of contagion or infection; the latter term sometimes being restricted to the reception of the morbid influence through the medium of the atmosphere, or by means of any other intermediate substance, called fomites. Certain diseases of contagious or infectious character more especially pertain to Surgery; principally erysipelas, pyaemia, and Hospital gangrene. Yet these diseases are preventible, chiefly by cleanliness in dressings, and clean or fresh air, the latter requirement having reference to free ventilation, and isolation of the patient or patients affected. Antisepticism may be regarded as disinfection in the treatment of wounds, not primarily poisoned; the object being to prevent the putrefaction of any animal fluid, as blood, liquor san- guinis, or pus, in contact with an open wound, and the consequent systemic infection known as pyaemia or septicEemia; the one disease signifying, literally, purulent infection of the blood, the other, that infection which arises from the introduction into the blood of decom- posing animal matter, septic matter, of any kind. Hence the so- named antiseptic dressings, in all their variety; for the experimental investigation of which, with regard to carbolic acid in particular. Surgery is principally indebted to Professor Lister, of Edinburgh. Diseases which arise from the local introduction or inoculation of any virus, as in Syphilis, are also far more of a preventible nature than amenable to any known curative treatment. Preparation of Patient for Operation.—It is scarcely necessary to observe that, on the ground of personal liberty of the subject, and legal liability of the Surgeon, the consent of the patient, and of his or her immediate relatives, should first be obtained before proceeding to any surgical operation. But this rule will as necessarily admit of excep- tions, according to the mental capacity, or the age of the patient, and the more or less urgent nature of the case proposed for operation. If the patient be sensible, of sound mind, and mature age; and he resolutely and persistently refuse to allow an operation of urgency to be performed; and if, moreover, his determination be backed by that of an immediate relative, as his wife; the Surgeon will have no alternative but to give up the responsibihty of the case. Thus, I have