484 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. larnygeal nerve ; when the urgency is due to pressure on the trachera, and necessarily below the seat of operation, such interference would be useless for affording even temporary relief. The proximity of the sac must be remembered, in using the knife or in entering the tube. Aneurisms at the Root op the Neck.—Diagnosis.—These aneurisms are associated in virtue of their pathology, and their diagnosis. They are aneurisms of (1) the innominate artery, and (2) of the commencement of the right common carotid and subclavian arteries, respectively. Aneurism of the tlioracic portion of the left common carotid or sub- clavian arteries is unknown. In the diagnosis of the aneurisms referred to, at the root of the neck, on the right side, the special symptoms of aneurisms of the aortic arch must be duly considered; but the difficulty will be to determine which of the three arteries is the seat of aneurism. The observations of my colleague. Dr. Cockle—in his valuable con- tribution to our diagnostic knowledge of these aneurisms—are here to the purpose. "Whenever," says he, "a pulsating tumour which in- volves the root of the neck to any extent is first submitted to observa- tion, and is unaccompanied by a sufficiently accurate previous history, there is generally a felt difficulty of diagnosis, whatever the actual position of the tumour may be. Such difficulty may occasionally arise from an inability to determine the real nature of the tumour, but most frequently (an aneurismal character being assumed) it consists in isolating the vessel engaged. The general rules laid down for guidance in this latter particular are based almost mainly upon the position of the tumour, and the relative state of the circulation in the corresponding arteries of the arm and neck." The rules, as laid down by Mr. Wardrop, are as follow:—Aneurism at the root of the carotid artery presents itself first in the small triangular space between the heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Aneurism of the subclavian presents on the outer or cervical side; and of the innominate, on the inner or tracheal side of that muscle. Then again, the pulse in the radial or brachial artery, or in the carotid or temporal, is less on the aneurismal side of the body. Diminished pulsation in the neck may indicate aneurism of the carotid trunk; in the arm, that of the subclavian; while diminished pulsation in both situations may indicate aneurism of the innominate artery. But there are many exceptions to these general rules. Thus, the pulsating tumour of aortic aneurism may rise in the form of secondary sacculations ascending the neck, in the ordinary situation of innominate or carotid aneurism; and induce modifications in the circulation and sensibility of the right upper extremity. Or, instead of rising, an aortic aneurism may find its way amid the loose cellular texture of the thoracic mediastinum; but by compressing the innominate, carotid, or subclavian arteries, it will affect the pulse in the same situations as aneurism of these vessels. Respecting innominate aneurism in particular, the differential diag- nosis, observes Dr. Cockle, is attended with difficulties in tolerably direct proportion to ihe part of the trunk affected. " When the origin of the vessel is alone involved, it is"—in his experience—"invariably combined with aneurism, either true or false, of the ascending aorta. This form of innominate aneurism thus loses all individuality, and merges into the general pathology of aortic aneurism. It has abso-