335 TETANUS. sufiicieutly potent. All these points of distinction were observable in tbe case of Cook, and were successfully nrged against Palmer in the celebrated trial for the murder of that man. MorjpJda sometimes produces convulsions, but they are epileptiform, and long in their development. Varieties.—Sometimes trismus and general tetanic twitches super- vene on continued pi-ostration, and remaining associated with it, con- stitute a variety of '^prostration with excitement." The excitement is tetanic. Such were the phenomena I observed during the course of a severe burn, in the Royal Free Hospital. The burn extended over the toes and instep of the right foot and lower part of the leg. Its depth was to Dupuytren's fifth degree. The annular ligament was de- stroyed, the interior of the ankle joint exposed, as also were the carpal bones, and the nails were burnt away. An attempt was made to save this foot, which would, I believe, have proved successful, with the removal of portions of bone; but the patient, a middle-aged woman, was fat and flabby, and a hard drinker. Prostration continued, and in a few days partial trismus, with tetanic twitches of the arms and hands, set in. The patient's mind wandered; she frequently raised her head, uttered a few words, and then dropped on to the pillow, tui'ning her eyes right and left with restless agitation. This condition having lasted for more than a week, the woman died exhausted. In other cases of continued irritation jp?<re tetanus supervenes. A man, says Travers, died of universal tetanus in a few hours after an obHque fi-acture of the thigh-bone, which penetrating the rectus muscle, was continually playing through its belly with a see-saw motion. A man having a simple fracture of the femur, and who appeared to be doing well for four days, was seized on a sudden with lock-jaw, and died in three days of acute universal tetanus. Ex- amination showed that the upper fragment of the bone, obliquely fi-actured, had perforated and left a detached spiculum of considerable size transfixing the vastus internus muscle. Certain varieties are noticed by Mr. A. Poland. Spasms primarily attacliinrj the muscles of the part injiorecl, instead of the muscles of the jaw. Two cases are mentioned, both of which were fatal. In the one, two months elapsed before the first symptoms occurred, a neuralgic affection of the muscles of the ball of the thumb, without any appear- ance of inflammation. The injury, oinginally, was a lacerated wound of the fleshy part of the thumb, by a splinter of teak-wood, which had transfixed the part. This was withdrawn at the time, and the wound healed soundly. But, after death, two pieces of splintered teak were found to be imbedded in the abductor muscle, and resting on a branch of the radial nerve. The other case was occasioned by a blow of a schoolmaster's cane on the hand. In this instance, both pain and spasm commenced in the injured part; followed by a gradual spas- modic contraction of the flexor muscles of the hand, drawing the fingers into the palm, and subsequently extending to the arm and other parts. Absence of pain was characteristic of one case, even to the last moment of existence. The cramps were accompanied by a tmgling and agreeable sensation, with a strong tendency to laughter. Special affection of the muscles of the face and eye was noticed in three cases, simulating ptosis in two of them. The muscles of the eyo are sometimes affected; the eyeball being fixed and drawn slightly in-