673 LYMPHATITIS. The treatment of Thrombosis and Embolism will, of course, be as widespread as their pathology, chiefly in connection with wounds of arteries and veins, and of arteritis and phlebitis, so named. Phleboltths, OB VEm-STONES.—Concretions are not unfrequently formed within various veins, more particularly in the iliac and its branches. Consisting of fibrine, which at length calcifying form concretions, these bodies are of a roundish shape, and the size of a pea or bean; they are either free, or attached to the interior of the vessels, cropping in and gathering more fibrine around themselves as the stream of blood eddies slowly by. One such body, situated in a principal vein, as either common iliac, might become a cause of serious obstruction to the return of blood from the whole lower extremity. The diagnosis would be dilficult or impossible, the occluding con- cretion being discovered only after death. Fortunately, however, when venous obstruction is gradually established, an adequate compensation is provided by the simultaneous enlargement of other veins, as collateral channels, for the return of blood. The obscurity of diagnosis, and this compensatory circiilation, render vein-stones of little practical interest. LYMPHATICS AFD GLANDS. CHAPTER XXX. ltmphatitis.—tumours. Ltmphatitis.—Inflammation op the Lymphatics, Lymphangitis, ok Angeioleucitis.—Stmciural Conditions.—The walls of the lymphatic vessels, when inflamed, are thickened and softened, the surroiinding cellular tissue is infiltrated with fibrinous exudation, and the capillaries are injected. Similar exudation mingling with the lymph within the vessels, forms a rosy clot, obstructing their interior. Stqjpuratio7b often ensues, limited as an abscess, or a chain of abscesses along the course of the vessel; or as diffuse infiltration. The Symptoms are referable both to the vessels aifected, and to the part. Inflamed lymphatics present purplish-red linear streaks, tortuous and intersecting, forming an arborescent appearance, not necessarily continuous with the source of inflammation, but running up to the neighbouring lymphatic glands, which also become involved. I'jrysipelatous patches frequently appear, having the same distribution, and render the islets of unaffected skin between the lymphatics more conspicuous. These red lines are hard and cord-like under the finger, and beset with a spongy swelling—the surrounding infiltration. A hot, burning pain, and tenderness on pressure, also corresponds with