INCISED WOUND. 367 of fa3cal matter. The " button " sutuve of Bozeman, the " clamp," and the "serrefine," of M. Vidal, may be here mentioned. A hanclage or roller, and comi^resscs or light pads of lint, may be required to maintain the surfaces of a wound in contact. This, more especially, if the parts are muscular and liable to retraction, or bulky and apt to fall asunder. Deep or excavated wounds, therefore, mostly need this extra restraint or support. But it should be applied evenly, and only with sufficient pressure to invite adhesion, by preventmg dis- placement and any oozing haamorrhage. Amputation-wounds well illus- trate the circumstances alluded to. Muscular retraction and weight of the flaps, thence recurring displacement and oozing htemorrhage, are overcome and obviated, by the additional retention of compresses and a bandage applied with even and moderate pressure. The line of incision, visible between the strips of plaster, needs only the protection of a piece of wet lint, as " water-dressing," covered with oiled silk to retard evaporation; and which maybe occasionally moistened without removing it or otherwise disturbing the healing process. Gol- lodion is sometimes used for the purpose of temporarily sealing the lips of an incised wound. AppHed with a camel's-hair brush, it should be used quickly, and in such quantity that one application of the brush may suffice; for collodion is very adhesive, dries almost immediately, and contracts. Antiseptic Dressings.—Disinfection and Deodorization have, of late years, attracted much attention, more particularly in this country; and especially in the treatment or dressing of "Wounds, whether occasioned by accident or by surgical operation. These terms, disinfection and deodorization, are not at all necessarily synonymous. Disinfection re- presents the neutralization or destruction of the infectious property, whatever that may be, in the atmosphere, or in any liquid, or solid substance, as an article of clothing—whereby a disease, itself infectious, is conununicated and propagated; Deodorization signifies only the neutralization' of an odoriferous property, and possibly, simply by masking it by some more powerful and penetrating odour. Probably, disinfection is far more frequently attended with deodorization, than the latter impHes the former. Thus, solutions of cai'bolic acid, chlorine, and chloride of zinc are Disinfectants; whereas the aroma wafted from burning spices, or the fragrant spices of the East, employed in ' times gone by, would sweeten rather than purify the sick chamber; like the camphor-bag in domestic use, or the time-honoured rue strewed about the dock of our criminal courts; all such agents more often delude the sense only—they are Deodorizers. Disinfection in relation to the treatment of Wounds, accidental or surgical, may be termed Antiseptic; the object being to prevent the putrefaction of any blood or liquor sanguinis cxtravasated, or of pus formed subsequently, and it would seem to also control the formation of the latter fluid. Thence, primary union of the wound is favoured, and the liability to purulent infection of the blood—Pyaamia—or to the decomposition of animal matter—producing Septictemia—is prevented. The principle of antiseptic treatment is twofold :— Firstly. By the exclusion of air, as the infecting agent, from the wound. Secondly. By the interposition of some positively disinfecting or antiseptic dressing, in the form of a close covering to the wound.