483 ANEUEISM. the special symptom, tlie oesoptiagus lying immediately to the right of the tumour. (3.) In the concavity of the arch, aneurism is beset with obstacles to its progress; notably, the bifurcation of the trachea, and either bronchus right or left, according to the inclining direction of the aneurismal enlargement. Dyspnoea is the ui-gent symptom, owing to the mechanical effect of pressure on the air tubes or pulmonary veins, or its influence on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve in its course round this portion of the aorta. (4.) On the posterior aspect of the arch, aneurism soon occasions dyspnoea, with, subsequently, dysphagia; the concurrence of these two symptoms, therefore, has diagnostic significance. (5.) At the upper iorder, or convexity of the arch, aneurism is at- tended with peculiar symptoms; cerebral disturbances, owing to interruption of the circulation through the carotid arteries. (6.) On the anterior aspect of the arch, aneurism is less productive of pressure-eifects than in any other part; oedema, only, slowly super- vening by compression of the innominate veins. Pain is a symptom common to all these aneurisms, as it is to aneurism in general. While, therefore, it cannot be reckoned a special symptom, its character is in some respects peculiar. The pain may be piercing and intermittent or neuralgic ; arising frbm pressure on the nerves—spinal or sympathetic. Affecting principally the left side, it darts up the side of the head and face, radiating down the arm to the elbow, through the chest, or piercing to the scapula. Or the pain may be grinding, burning, and continuous ; owing to excavation of the tissues and bones. This kind of pain affects chiefly the right side of the chest. In every case, pain is a very early symptom, as compared with symptoms more special and characteristic. Diagnosis.—The special symptoms thus indicated by the anatomical relation of these aneurisms, are variously combined; and, indeed, this sort of diagrammatic view of the aneurismal aortic arch is often modified so as to present the most perplexing cases of diagnosis; either as to the existence of aneurism, or the particular portion of the arch which may be affected. The former question can only be deter- mined by the presence of a tiimour, pulsating as an aneurism; and, therefore, with reference only to either of the three first-named portions of the arch, the part also being thus indicated. Presuming the existence of aneurismal tumour, the second question—as to its situa- tion—may perhaps be solved by due consideration of the special symptoms of functional disturbance referable to the several aspects of the aortic arch, which, although less favourably circumstanced for physical diagnosis, are more conducive to the manifestations of func- tional disturbance. Fortunately, this differential diagnosis as to the part affected, guides the special prognosis more than it modifies the treatment of these Aortic Aneurisms. Treatment.—The same principles which guide the treatment of aneurism in general are here applicable, for the arrest, if possible, of thoracic aneurism in any part of the aortic arch ; but any operative proceeding on the arch will obviously be out of the question. Trache- otomy may become justifiable, for the relief of urgent dyspnoea; but, as Professor Spence observes, only when dependent on laryno-eal spasm from pressure of the aneurismal tumour on the recurrent