FRACTUKE OF THE HYOID BONE. 6J5 witlidrawn witli tlie needle. The end of tlie wire afc A is to be inserted into tlie slit of the key in figure, and twisted in three or four coils; Fig. 207. Fig. 208. and then the end of wire at b must be twisted in like manner until the fracture is firmly fixed. The wii-e will require to be tightened as it loosens, every three or four days. Or the wire may be secured around the teeth, in other cases, as here shown. (Fig. 208.) A hole was bored from without backwards and inwards across the third molar tooth A, below the enamel, this tooth being firm in the posterior portion of the fracture. The wire having been passed through this hole, from without inwards, was brought forward between the bicuspid and canine teeth A. Then, the ends of the wire were coiled with the key. After hgature, union takes place in three or four weeks, when the wire may be removed. So firmly secured are the fractured sui'faces by a skilful application of the ligature, that the patient may have to be restrained from using the jaw in mastication. And the satisfactory results which have been obtained certainly recommend this method of treatment. I have practised it with success in two or three cases. But the wire ligature must be restricted to certain cases only. In com- pound fracture of the jaw, this method is eligible; but it would not be 3,dvisable to drill the bone, and possibly convert a simple fracture into compound. Then again, in the absence of teeth or in an edentulous jaw, the application of a ligature may be difficult or impracticable, as an alternative method of treatment. Fractuee of the Hyoid Bone.—The injury occurs very rarely. The body of the bone may be broken, as in hanging; but more commonly, one of the great cornua gives way. In one instance I have seen a fracture at the junction of the great cornu with the body of the bone, on the left side. The mobility, and perhaps crepitus, with some displacement of the fragments, are sufficiently characteristic. Besides which signs, there may be a sensation of something having snapped at the time of the injury, with haemorrhage from the throat and acute pain at the root of the tongue and in moving the organ; also perhaps difiiculty in opening the mouth, or in swallowing, and loss of voice. These functional symptoms are usually associated with some amount of swelling and bruising, or more distinctive marks of violence, over the seat of injury. Direct violence would seem to be the only occasion of hyoid fracture, as by the grip of an assassin, or by a blow or fall on the front of the neck ; but it is said to have been produced also by muscular action.