359 INCISED WOUND. Symijioms.—Pain, of a burning or smarting kind, and licemorrliage or effusion of blood, in various degrees, accompany tbe division of nerves and blood-vessels; and the wound opens or gapes more or less, according to the elasticity, muscular contractility, and weiglit of the parts. The former symptoms are not peculiar to this, or any other kind of Injury; but absence of the latter condition, gaping of the wound, is the negative distinction of a suhciotaneous incised wound. This lesion is, moreover, not exposed to the action of the air ; a pecu- liarity of essential importance, as determining the course of a sub- cutaneous wound in respect to its more speedy reparation. Gaiise and Uffeds of Incised Wo'imd.—An incised wound is produced by the edge of any sharp cutting instrument, as a knife, chisel, or sword; not by a blunt or a pointed weapon. Its effects are essentially local, in relation to the function of the part wounded; but the lesion produces constitutional disturbance in proportion to the implication of nerves and blood-vessels, and to the functional importance of the part in the system. Hence, the Shoch of injury to the nervous system ; the Gollai^se arising from profuse or persistent hasmorrhage ; and the serious junctional disturbance arising from wound of an internal organ, as the lung or intestine. The re- duction of temperature is greater after shock, complicated by the collapse from hcemorrhage. Thus, Mr. Le Gros Clarke relates a case of cut throat, in a man aged sixty-three, where the thermometer fell to 91*2°, one hour after the injury, and rose, during reaction, only to 100'1° in twenty-four hours. Some allowance must be made, in this case, for the mental shock, in addition to the shock of injury, as the hfjemorrhage was not excessive. The patient recovered. Traumatic or Surgical fever is simply that form of inflammatory fever which arises from a wound of any kind, or a surgical operation, if only the injury be of sufficient magnitude, as a compound fracture or an amputation, thus to induce this constitutional disturbance. Like ordinary inflammatory fever, the traumatic variety is essentially a blood-infection, proceeding from the absorjotion of materials at the seat of inflammation. This inflammatory fever, of traumatic origin, begins usually within a few hoiirs after the injury or operation, and is then associated with the reaction from shock, or not until the second day or later; and it may subside in a few hours, or continue from two to seven days. In the course of wound-fever, the pulse and the tempera- ture are generally concurrent; the one increasing in freqiiency as the other rises, and declining as it falls. The maximum temperature averages 104.-9° (Billroth). But the degree of febrility does not depend on the magnitude of the injury or operation, nor on the part affected. Nor, again, does hcemorrhage, even to a considerable amount, seem to have any influence, beyond delaying the rise of temperature. On the first day, a high degree of temperature affords no indication that the fever will be of long duration. Its continuance is not in- fluenced by primary union of the wound, nor, essentially, by the age and constitution of the patient. Lastly, suppuration does not deter- mine the period of febrility. The febrile condition may return, from some cause of irritation in the wound, the inflammation of an adjoin- ing pai-t, or from the supervention of some secondary affection, as erysipelas, pyfemia, or tetanus. Iteparation.—Incised wound tends to undergo the reparative process