565 VAEICOSE VEINS, OR VARIX, either from direct pi'essure, or from thrombosis; resulting in a varicose state of the veins which span over the interspace within which the injury occurs. Thus, observes Mr. Gay, when the thigh is broken high up, the veins between the saphena below and the superficial pubic and epigastric veins become varicose; whilst, when the leg is broken, the dorsal veins become similarly affected. Course and, Terminations.—(1.) Inflammation of the vein is very apt to supervene, and by increasing the liability to coagulation within the vessel, lead to further consequences; persistent oedema of the sub- cellular tissue, and ulceration, forming the varicose ulcer. (2.) Venous hcemorrhage may ensue, sometimes of an alarming character, in the event of ulceration extending into the vein, or some large branch. Similar hfemorrhage may proceed from attenuation and bursting of a varicose vein. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation, as any occasion of pressure or obstruction, will, of course, be the primary rule to be observed. But this may not be possible, and treatment of the varicose condition of the veins affected may therefore prova useless ; the sup- pression of varicosity in one set of veins being followed by a corre- sponding enlargement of other veins, as a compensatory provision for the circulation. Palliative measures consist in rest, elevation of the part, and mode- rately firm, even, and continued compression of the veins, by means of bandaging with an Fig- 176. elastic roller. (Fig. 176.) This figure shows the mode of applying a roller-bandage to the leg. Commencing from the toes, each turn of the roller is made to overlay the preceding- one, so that no intervals are left between the turns, through which the integument would become swollen ; the turns are made with moderate, but even firmness, by a slight pull in completing each circle; and cross-ttirns are made as the roller is carried up the leg, in order to adapt the bandage evenly to the in., creasing circumference of the leg—this mani- pulation being effected over the tibia by just fixing the bandage with the thumb of the left hand, as the cross-turn clowmuards is made, in carrying the roller around the leg. Or an elastic stocking may be worn, as another mode of affording support to the enlarged and weakened veins. These ap- pliances relate specially to varicose veins of the lower extremities; but a similar mode of treatment is applicable generally. The treat- ment of a varicose ulcer, which often co-exists with varicose veins of the leg, is described in connection with Ulcers. Varicocele and Hemorrhoids are specially noticed in connection with Diseases of the Scrotum and Rectum, respectively. Radical or Curative Treatment consists in obliteration of the Vein or Veins, by various operative procedures. They are none of them more than occasionally successful, and some are hazardous rather than curative.