GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 80 (h.) The quantity of liquor sanguinis, and therefore of fibrin, efEused, is further regulated by the degree of hyperismia, aided by the force of the general circulation. Virchow denies this explanation of fibrin-production. He argues that nobody has ever been able to prove the affirmative experimentally; that nobody has ever been able, by producing a mere change in the force of the current of the blood, to induce the fibrin to transude directly, as it is wont to do in certain inflammatory processes ; for this, some irritation is always required. But, in the absence of experimental proof, clinical observation supplies, I think, some probable evidence. When the pulse is strong and hard, the blood-stream beats forcibly through unyielding vessels, in an inflamed part; then fibrin is pro- duced abundantly in that part. When, again, the pulse is rapid rather than strong, and compressible, the blood current is misdirected; then less fibrin is found in the part inflamed. The former condition is illustrated by common phlegmonous inflammation, with much fibrin; the latter, by erysipelas, with much serum. (c.) Beyond these causes of lymph-effusion, it is possible that the charaeter of the deposit may be influenced by the nervous system; but the share of its influence, if any, must be determined by future inquiry. (d.) Lastly, the structure in which inflammation takes place, may itself exercise some power, either by selecting the fibrin from the blood, thereby inducing its effusion, or by producing it in the inflamed part through metamorphosis of the material effused. In other words, an inflamed structure may possess either a secretory or a formative power. Virchow adheres to the latter view, and maintains by experimental observations, that irritation indtices the effusion of a fibrinogenous substance, which can be converted into fibrin. In proof of the self- sufficiency of irritation, Virchow adduces the operation of a blister; that firstly, serum only is yielded, but if the irritation be more violent, a fluid which coagulates. The general doctrine advanced is thus stated : A patient who produces at a certain point a large quantity of flbrin- forming substance, much of it passes from that point into the lymph, and finally into the blood. The exudation may therefore in such cases be regarded as the surplus of the fibrin formed in loco, for the removal of which the lymphatic circulation did not suffice. As long as the current of lymph does suffice, all the foreign matters which are formed in the irritated part are conveyed into the blood; but, as soon as the local production becomes excessive, the products accumulate, and in addition to the hyperinosis, a local accumulation of fibrinous exudation will also take place. More consistent with known facts is the operation of a secretory power, by which structures select this or that constituent of the blood as it passes through them, and by which the effusion of that particular constituent is determined. An approach to the proof of this theory is, I conceive, the behaviour of the same blood in different textures. Blood, having the same composition and properties, deposits in one inflamed part much fibrin; in another, rather albumen; in a third, more fatty ma,tter. In pleuro-pneumonia, for example, fibrin and a large proportion of serum are effused from the inner surface of the