WOUNDS OF VEINS. 38^ the aperture in it, by tlie heart's action, and its effect on the flow of venous blood; and by the presence or absence of certain conditions which favour or retard the free flow of blood through the vessel. Thus, pressure on the vein between the aperture and the heart, a dependent position of the part, and muscular action in the course of the cui'rent, favour the haemorrhage; while the opposite conditions retard it. Causes, and Effects of Wounds of Veins.—Like an artery, a vein may be incised or cut with a sharp instrument, punctured with a pointed one, contused or lacerated by a blunt one, or injured by foi'ce of a bruising or wrenching kind. The operation of this lesion, locally, is to induce diffuse inflammation of the vein—diffuse phlebitis, if the wound be an open one, or to pi'oduce a collection of venous blood— blood-tumour, if the fluid be imprisoned in the textures. This con- dition will be described under Contusion. Constitutionally, whether venous hjemorrhage takes place externally, or internally into one of the great cavities of the body, its effects are manifested by syncope; either by failure of the heart's action—cardiac syncope, and thence of the circulation, or by loss of consciousness—-cerebral syncope ; or by both these effects, and their fatal termination if the hasmorrhage be sufliciently prolonged. These constitutional effects, and the probability of death resulting, are proportionate to the quantity of blood lost; not necessarily by its escape from the body, but even when lost to the body as blood in circulation. Such consequences are less apt to ensue from venous than from arterial haemorrhage; but another constitutional disturbance is specially liable to occur from an open wound of a vein, and more so, the larger the vessel. Air is apt to enter the circulation, attended with a whirling, bubbhng, sucking, or lapping sound; the individual feels death-struck, he moans and breathes heavily, becomes very faint, and probably dies, in a few minutes, or, at the most, in a few hours. Reparation.—Wounds of Veins heal by processes apparently analo- gous to those whereby similar Wounds of Arteries are repaired. Treatment.—The arrest of venous haemorrhage may be accomplished, by an elevated position of the part, and the pressure of a compress secured by a few turns of a roller. Cold or astringent lotions are also of some service. Ligature should be avoided, as being apt to induce phlebitis. But this resource may be necessary in the case of a large vein, or if the vessel be so situated that pressure cannot be applied. The treatment of diffuse inflammation of a wounded vein will be considered under the head of Phlebitis ; and the remedial measures appropriate to the formation of a blood-tumonr, in connection with Contusion. Constitutional Teeatment of H^morehage.—Arterial or Venous.— After the loss of any considerable quantity of blood, whether by acci- dent or surgical operation, the patient should be laid in the recum- bent position, to prevent syncope ; and afterwards, rest in this position wdl be favourable to the weak circulation. The circulation should be restored, in the first instance, by the judicious administration of stimulants and warmth, as in the case of Shock ; but subsequently, nourishing food will be required, especially in the liquid form, to regain the blood lost, and the bulk of the circulating fluid. In the chronic anaemia resulting from severe htemorrhage, iron and quinine 2 c