DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. CHAPTER XII. SHOCK OF INJURY.—COLLAPSE. Shock.—Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—Failure of the heart's action, or cardiac syncope, is the immediate effect of any sudden and violent impression on the nervous system. This failure of function is denoted by a thready, feeble, slow, and afterwards frequent and perhaps irregular, pulse; which is accompanied with pallidity, a cold clammy skin, with a reduction of temperature averaging one or two degrees, a haggard look, and lacklustre eye, great muscular prostration, soft sighing respiration, and, perhaps, some cerebral disturbance; symptoms which constitute the state known as Shock, or Collapse as arising from Injury. Other symptoms are exceptional and occasional only. Hickup, vomiting, relaxation of the sphincters, attended with involuntary mic- turition and defsecation; suppression of urine, convulsions, and stupor. It appears, therefore, that in this state of functional suspension, both the nervous and blood-vascular systems are overwhelmed, in- volving, possibly, all other functions; but, as the shock of Injury, the nervous system is primarily affected, and thence the vascular system; thus differing from cardiac syncope consequent on hasmorrhage. A great physiological relationship underHes the pathology of Shock;— namely, that while the action of the heart is independent of the nervous system, it is much influenced and even arrested by any impression through that system. Not unfrequently, however, with Injury, both modes of origin—nervous suppression and loss of blood—co-operate. Causes.—Injuries of all kinds—e.g., incised and lacerated Wounds, Burns, Fractures, and Dislocations—are attended with Shock; and according to their extent as involving the nervous system, and their persistence as causes in operation. A burn, superficial in itself, but extensively involving a considerable cutaneous expansion of the nervous system, will cause more extreme shock than a far deeper burn of limited nervous consequence. Unreduced Fractures and Dislocations continue to operate, by laceration and pressure, on the nervous system. But injuries of organs, abundantly supplied with nerves, or in intimate relation with the nervous system, are equally influential. Thus, crushing of the testicle, or lesion of an internal organ, may prove fatal. The part injured has an important relation to shock. Head-injuries, affecting or involving the brain, are attended with more disturbance of the cerebral functions; while injury to the peripheral nervous