519 LIGATURE OF ARTERIES. border of the biceps muscle guides to the brachial artery, the tendon of the supinator longus leads to the radial, and the upper margin o£ the clavicle, in its outer third, is the line of incision leading to the subclavian in the third part of its course. In the absence of any such anatomical "directing line," a line can, mostly, be drawn corre- sponding to the course of the artery. For example, midway between the anterior superior spinous pi'ocess of the ilium and symphysis of the pubes, a line commencing and terminating on the inner side of the patella nearly indicates the course of the femoral artery. The incision may be made in the line thus indicated naturally or artificially, or obhquely across that line ; the latter direction guiding to the artery which it .^iq. 144.. bisects in some point of its course, and leading more clearly to the parts adjacent on either side of the vessel. The length of incision should be pro- portionate to the depth of the artery which has to be reached, thence varying from one to three inches or more; but generally the skin alone should be first divided, the integument being gently stretched, without displacement, by the fingers of the left hand. (Fig. 144.) Then, the subjacent fascia, its superficial and deep layers, and muscle in some cases, must be carefully divided, in succession; any known veins or arterial branches being avoided, if possible, or hemorrhage from them commanded by pressure, torsion, or ligature. Adjoining the artery, a nerve may be found, lying by the side of the vessel, but outside its sheath—e.g., the ulnar nerve in collateral relation to the ulnar artery; or several nerves may surround the vessel, as the brachial plexus in relation to the brachial artery. Any such superficial vessels, the border of a muscle or tendon, and nerves, are conveniently drawn to one side and protected, and the wound made more open, by curved metallic spatula or retractors; wherewith re- traction can be gently main- tained by an assistant, as the textures are successively di- vided, and also during the passage of the ligature-needle around the artery. The sheath of the artery having been reached — as denoted by its dense cellular character, and the pulsation of the enclosed vessel, im- mediately beneath the finger —that structure should be slightly raised with the forceps, into a small cone off the artery, and the knife being laid flat under the pinch of the forceps, a small