CONSTITUTIONAL OR SECONDARY SYPHILIS. 267 and peculiar symptoms taken singly, but collectively tliey are diag- nostic. The order of development is uncertain. The cachectic, wasted, and withered condition of the child usually attracts attention. The face has a muddy tint, or there is a tawny-coloured patch in the place of either eyebrow, from which the hair has fallen; the skin is loose and wrinkled, especially around the eyes, mouth, and nose, which also has a flattened appearance; and the expression is remarkably old-looking, giving to the visage of the infant a monkey-like aspect. The voice or cry is cracked, like the sound of a penny trumpet, as Dr. Farre observes. Secondary symptoms are manifested by the skin, and mucous membranes—especially of the nose and mouth. Congestion of, and offensive muco-purulent discharge from the nasal mucous membrane, are accompanied with a puffed appearance of the nose, and constant snufiiing breathing, as a chronic catarrh, existing from birth, or soon supervening. The mouth may exhibit ai'ound the lips radi- ating cracks or fissures, with spots of ulceration, and milk-white ])atches may be found on the palate. Cutaneous eruiMons appear, before birth—the infant presenting some such eruption from birth, or not until some weeks have elapsed—usually three or four. Certain parts are affected more particularly; the mouth and anus, the nates or scrotum, the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet. Hence, observation should always be directed to these parts, in examining an infant supposed to be the victim of hereditary syphilis. The congenital eruption may be recognized in t"he form either of mucous patches, of a spongy, oozing character, especially besetting the angles of the mouth and perhaps the fauces, or gathered around the anus; elsewhere the eruption may be .that of roseolous spots, which come and go; or the cracked appearance of psoriasis may be presented, more especially in the inelastic skin of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot; some- times the eruption takes the form of flat, squamous tubercles ; or vesicles or bullae, known as pemphigus, which dry into scales or scabs. A brownish-red, coppery colour, of or around these eruptions, is more characteristic. Iritis is not uncommon; this affection occurring in about five or six months after birth, and being attended with an abundant effusion of lymph, occluding the pupil so that the sight is generally lost. Interstitial corneitis usually appears, but at a later period,—between the eighth and fifteenth yeai"s. Syphilitic periostitis and caries are comparatively rare; but sometimes the bones lose their epiphysial connections. The teeth, both temporary and permanent, are affected in the tertiary or later form of congenital syphilis. Ac- cording to Mr. J. Hutchinson's original observations, certain carious or ill-developed appearances are presented. The tempora'ry teeth are cut early, have a bad colour, and are liable to a crumbling decay. The upper central incisors usually undergo this destructive change early, and always first; then follow the lateral incisors, which become carious and are Fig. 73. shed; lastly, though rarely, the canine teeth wear away, so as to assume a flat- tened, tusk-like character. (Fig. 78.) The teeth represented are the upper set of a syphilitic child, aged nearly three . years. Owing to early decay of the incisors, the sypliilitic cMld remains I edentulous from an early period, in regard to these teeth, and has a