CONTUSED AND LACERATED WOUNDS. 397 ventire measures have been practised chiefly in Grermany; Professor Baum, of Gottingen, having used the bath, and with excellent effect in some cases, while Professor Billroth often employs it, though he does not regard this or the other such methods as surely prophylactic of decomposition. In Prance, irrigation is especially approved by some Burgeons. I have also used it with complete success; particularly in the case of a smashed hand, which seemed hopelessly lost. The tem- perature of the water-bath should be moderated according to the feelings of the patient; and this mode of treatment may be continued for a week or ten days, the part being cleansed from pus, which does not itself freely escape, and the water being changed so as to keep it quite fresh. If the cuticle of the part be thick and unyielding, as in the hand of a labourer, any continued soddening will, perhaps, be at- tended with, a tense, burning sensation, quite unendurable. Lubrication with oil, or the addition of a handful of salt to the water, is said to afford protection against this contingency. The healing by granulation is slower in a wound under water and the influence of cold; but when the treatment is discontinued, in time, the pale and infiltrated granulations, cedematous with the water, become ruddy and firm, and the wound soon begins to contract and cicatrize. Grenerally, however, carbolic acid dressings and syringing seem to have the advantage over cold water treatment, in being equally protective against atmospheric influence, without further endangering the vitality of the already disorganized part, by the prolonged application of cold. But the disintegrated textures inevitably die, to a greater or less extent. Hence, in the event of primary adhesion having failed entirely, and in all deep and extensively contused wounds, it becomes necessary to actually encourage and aid the process of sloughing, in order to bring into operation that of healing by granulation. The separation of sloughs will be favoured by warmth and moisture, in the shape of a light poultice or spongio-piline epithem. At this time secondary haemorrhage is liable to occur, if an artery of any considerable size was involved in the contusion or laceration. Any collection of matter should be let out, or a free vent may be given by a counter-opening, and discharge facilitated by the temporary introduction of a drainage- tube. Otherwise the reparative process needs little assistance; posi- tion, rest, and protection from the action of the air by carbolic acid dressing, will suffice for the granulating of any healthy wound. Deep and extensively contused or lacerated wounds of either Umh are conditions which, in relation to profuse suppuration or gangrene, must be considered both with regard to the preservation of the limb and the life. Amputation.—The propriety of amputation has regard to both these issues, which will be more advantageously considered in con- nection with compound fracture and dislocation. If gangrene be allowed to supervene, life is endangered; if the Umh be removed before the supervention of gangrene, it may have been sacrificed by such untimely interference. The compromise of these two considerations is better determined by pathology than by empirical experience :— (1.) If iheiuhole substance of a limb be involved by the injury, gan- grene is inevitable; amputation, therefore, is imperative to intercept this event, and thus preserve life. (2.) If, however, the injury be less