INFLAMMATION. 39 The blood is renewed in quantity, and further maintained in quality, by the co-operation of other functions,—digestion, excretive secretion, and respiration; while its circulation is regulated hy the agency of the nervous system. Again and again is this fluid, replenished and reno- vated, distributed to every part of the body, each tissue claiming and retaining that quantity of the common pabulum which may be neces- sary, and selecting those ingredients which enter into its own formation, to repair its waste and thus maintain its substance. Groiuth and Development.—It will be obvious that any increased nutritive demand, beyond that of mere maintenance, as by Growth, necessarily implies at least an increased supply of blood to the part undergoing this change, and perhaps also a different quality of blood to meet any such additional requirement. Indeed, ever moving and vibrative as are the leaves of an aspen tree even on a breathless summer's day, so likewise oscillatory is the nice adjustment and equilibrium of nutrition. The balance of maintenance could never be continued from hour to hour, scarcely from minute to minute, without a varying capacity in the circulatory system to satisfy ever- varying demands. This provision is brought into action by nervous influence. It is now known, originally by the experimental researches of M. Claude Bernhard, that the circulation of the blood is inflaenced by vaso-motor nerves—nervi-vasorum—forming a wide expanse of the nervous system, distributed to the blood-vessels, principally to the arteries, and extending even to their ultimate ramifications. This vascular system of nerves is derived, in part, directly from the sympa- thetic or ganglionic system, as from the splanchnics, which are the vascular nerves of the abdominal viscera; and in part, indirectly, by communicating branches between the sympathetic cord and the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, as the source of nerve-supply to the blood- vessels of the extremities, upper and lower. But, while the vaso- motor system of nerves thus proceeds from the sympathetic, its primary origin is in the cerebro-spinal system; isolation of any portion of the sympathetic, by division of its spinal communicating branches, being attended with paralysis of its vaso-motor functions. There is also, apparently, an excito-motory centre, presiding over the whole vaso- motor system of nerves; for the motor influence of these nerves on the blood-vessels can be elicited by stimulating afferent spinal nerves, being therefore reflected by that centre, through efferent sympathetic vascular nerves. The situation of the centre here referred to is intra- cranial,—the vaso-motor influence ceasing when the spinal cord is divided immediately below the medulla oblongata, and thereby causing paralysis of the whole vascular system. The most important results respecting the physiology of the vaso-motor system of nerves, as shown by the effects of their stimulation or their division, are thus summarily stated by Dr. Burdon Sanderson:—That section of a vascular nerve produces congestion of all the tissues to which it is distributed; that excitation by the interrupted current, or by mechanical means, produces constriction of the minute arteries presided over by the irritated nerve, and consequent anaemia; that excitation of a sensory nerve produces increased activity of the capillary circulation in the part in. which the nerve originates; and that all arteries exhibit alternating states of contraction and dilatation, their rhythmical