INCISED WOUND. 369 tened with carbolic solution, strong or weak,—one to eighty, to renew a supply of the antiseptic to the lac beneath. Great care must be taken in removing the antiseptic dressing, not to admit air into the wound, or any regurgitation of discharge. Hence two precautions; in removing the cloth, the plaster should be held down over the wound, so as not to be drawn up with it, at any part where they may have become adherent by dried discharge; then, in raising the plaster, the nozzle of a syringe is inserted beneath its margin, and a stream of carbolic solution is thrown over the wound, until a piece of calico, soaked with the same lotion, has been placed upon it, as a temporary security, pending the re-application of the plaster. " These details, while essential to success, are, happily, easy of execution." Theory of the Antisejptic Treatment.—To form an impartial judgment respecting the eflBcacy of " antiseptics," it is necessary, as in all other aspects of surgery, to draw a sharp line of distinction between observed facts, and their supposed explanation or interpretation. The non- recognition of this obviously important distinction has influenced, both favourably and unfavourably, the pi^actice of antisepticism. To pre- vent, if possible, the putrefaction of animal matter, whether as blood or discharge, in contact with wounds, is known to be most important, pathologically, as an observed fact; and that carbolic acid has some such influence, is another observed fact. But how it operates is doubtful. Opinions are divided, though not equally. The chemical theorists attribute the putrefaction observed, to the decomposition induced by the oxygen of the air, a process of oxidation. The ^er?7i-theorists attribute the putrefaction observed, to the pro- duction of living organisms developed from germs or ova floating in the atmosphere, as constituents of its dust; and not as the result of " spontaneous or equivocal generation," in the putrifying animal matter. The balance of, evidence would seem to be in favour of the latter or germ-theory. The observations of Cagniard Latour, 1836, in the dis- covery of the yeast plant, followed by those of Schwann of Berlin, in the following year, and the subsequent discovery of minute, jointed, living bodies—vibrios—in putrid matter, supplied the basis of the . germ-theory; while the well-known power of the atmosphere to carry ; and disseminate seeds or dust, completed the theory. The researches I of Pasteur seem to have brought it to actual demonstration. Hence, i antiseptic treatment would consist in excluding the atmosphere from ' wounds, and in interposing some agent which shall destroy the germs i m their introduction by any exposure to the air. Has carbolic acid, or other so-called antiseptics, any such effect ? The question is still .< sub judice. Results.—Comparing the aggregate results of amputations, in the Glasgow Eoyal Infirmary, Professor Lister finds the mortality to have been:—Before the antiseptic period, 16 deaths in 35 cases, or 1 death in every 2i cases; whereas, during the antiseptic period, it was 6 deaths in 40 cases, or 1 death in every 6| cases. This is certainly a greatly dimished mortality, and its significance is more notable from il the relative death-rate of amputations in the upper limb ; where gene- rally, neither the injuries nor the operations involve much loss of blood or shock to the system, so that if death occurs, it is commonly the result of the wound assuming an unhealthy character. There wero 2 B