506 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEEY. Situated at the ball of the thumb. Ligature of the brachial artery is usually very successful as regards the issue of the operation itself. lu .68 cases tabulated by Porta, 10 died after the operation, but whether in consequence of it is uncertain. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of these Arteries.—These lesions are as common as spontaneous aneurism of the same vessels is rare. The Treatment is the same as for similar lesions of other arteries. Double ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury; or that failing, ligature of the artery alove. Thus, in a case where the radial artery- was almost divided by a scale off an iron bolt which had been thrust up the arm, I enlarged the track of the wound, turned out the coagula, and distinctly seeing the opening in the vessel, a ligature was applied above and below. To render this procedure bloodless, as in other cases, an Esmarch's elastic coil was applied over the brachial artery in the arm, the limb having been previously emptied of blood by the elastic bandage. After the operation, the profuse hsemorrhage at once ceased; the ligatures came away on the sixth day, without any return of the bleeding, and the wound healed. Gompressio7i, by means of a graduated compress, applied in the seat of wound, or above, if an aneurism have formed, might be tried in the first instance ; but it will rarely prove sufficient to permanently arrest the haemorrhage. This method of treatment is most successful in wounds of the palmar arch, there being a steady resistance to the compress by the metacarpal bones. But it may become necessary to tie the radial and ulnar arteries, and subsequently even to ligature the brachial. Aneurismal Varix, and Varicose Aneurism. — These conditions mostly occur at the bend of the elbow ; the brachial artery and median basilic vein communicating, by puncture in unskilful venesection. Seldom met with, therefore, in these days of almost abandoned general blood-letting, the rules of treatment should still be remembered in the event of any such accident happening. Compression, with an accurately applied compress and roller, over the puncture, will generally succeed in restraining aneurismal varix. But, after considerable enlargement of the vein—varix being estab- lished, or the formation of an intervening sac—varicose aneurism, it will be necessary to completely cut off the current of arterial blood, by ligature of the artery on either side of the aperture of communication. Any other operative proceeding would be ligature of the arterial trunk above; an alternative rendered necessary only when the opera- tion in situ is impracticable, but which is not so directly effectual. Abdominal Aorta; and Iliac Arteries, Common, Internal, and External. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The symptoms of abdominal or pelvic aneurism are similar to those of aneurism in other situations. A tumour, the pulsations of which can be felt, heard, and perhaps seen externally ; compressible, and subsiding if pressure can be made on the arterial trunk above. The pressure-effects are various, according to the relations of the tumour to adjacent viscera; pain also and oedema supervene as the nerves and venous trunks suffer compression. Thus, in parts supplied by the lumbar plexus, pain is experienced—e.^., down the thigh and leg, if the anterior crural nerve bo stretched over the.