558 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 174. passes througli are also peculiar. The inner membrane of the artery rarely becomes involved. But the granular matter may be disposed in transverse streaks, at length forming complete rings around the interior of the vessel; sometimes named annular calcifica- tion. (Fig. 174.) Then the artery may acquire an alter- nately constricted and dilated condition ; the enlargements corresponding to the intervals between the rings, and where the walls are thinned by the atrophic disintegration of the middle coat, without the support of the substituted ossific deposit. Sometimes, by coalescence of closely arranged adjoining rings, the artery becomes converted into a rigid, inelastic tube ; as may also occur more often, from the conjunction of bony scales, in the other form of ossific degeneration; and this change of appearance has been named tubular calcification. Another, and very rare, form of the deposit is described by Bizot, in which the calcareous granules are disposed in linear direction upon the inner membrane of the artery; primarily, in elliptical groups, afterwards having the shape of irregular scales. They seem to originate in transverse cracks of the inner coat, which gather the cretaceous granules around their edges. The different kinds of degeneration — the cartilaginous and the atheromatous—are not unfrequently found associated, and in the same artery; and with atheroma, or where softening is taking place in one patch, there may be ossification co-existing in another and neighbour- ing patch. Hence the varied appearances which an artery or the arterial system may exhibit, when examined in states of degeneration. The relative frequency of degeneration, in its diiferent forms, varies, however, in different arteries. This diversity has already been noticed. Commencing with the aorta, this parent trunk is the chosen scene of these deteriorative and destructive changes in the arterial system. Chiefly affecting the posterior surface of the aorta, and where branches are given off, degeneration extends downwards, through the thoracic and abdominal portions of the artery. Ossification, as affecting different arteries, proceeds in the following order of frequency, according to Lobstein's arrangement:—" Arch of the aorta, end of the common iliac artery, thoracic aorta, splenic artery, abdominal aorta, femoral artery and its branches, spermatic artery, hypogastric and its branqhes, coronary arteries of the heart, branches of the subclavian, bifurcation of the common carotid, the cerebral carotid, branches of the external carotid, arteries of the thoracic and abdominal walls, brachial artery and its branches, twigs of the umbilical, arteries of the substance of the brain, pulmonary artery." If this order of procedure be taken as an approximation to the truth, it will at least tend to correct the apparently arbitrary selection which is sometimes assigned with regard to different arteries, respecting their liability to ossific degeneration. The symm.etrical distribution of arterial degeneration, on both sides of the body, may be accepted as an almost invariable law, as shown by Bizot. Causes.—The originating cause of degeneration, as affecting the arterial system, is obscure, and cannot be discussed here with much practical advantage. In whatever form degeneration may appear, it