792 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the sub-serous cellular tissue. This represents the adhesive stage of synovitis; an event, however, which rarely supervenes, as the opposed surfaces of the interior of the synovial capsule become yet more sepa- rated by its increasing distension. Subsequently, pus may be secreted withm the capsule, which thus becomes converted into an abscess. Signs.—Amde Synovitis.—The knee-joint maybe taken for example, as it IS more commonly afFected than any other joint. Coincident with the earliest stage of inflammation, pain is experienced by tlio patient, and usually referred to a particular spot, perhaps the inner edge of the patella; afterwards extending over the whole articulation. The pain has no specially distinctive character. It is severe in pro- portion to the depth of the articulation and the unyielding nature of the ligamentous and other surrounding structures. It is also most intense in synovitis of a rheumatic or gouty origin, and as if the joint were compressed by a vice, or being violently torn open. In a period varying from two or three hours to as many days, according to the intensity of the inflammation, swelling makes its appearance. The con- sistence^ and shape of this synovial swelling are characteristic. At first fluid and fluctuating, it becomes semi-solid as lymph is effused, and again resumes its original fluidity in the event of serous collection, or of suppuration. But the shape of this swelling is even more re- markable. Throughout the course of synovitis, it corresponds to the shape of the synovial capsule; presenting that outline more clearly according to the degree of distension, aud as modified by the com- pression of surrounding ligaments and tendons. The swelling, therefore, varies in form with each articulation, and its rela- tion to the ligaments and tendons. Thus, in the knee, the swelling of synovitis is most conspicuous as a protrusion on either side of the ligamentum patellte, betwixt it and the lateral ligaments, and rising up above the patella, bulges in a uniform shape as high as the distended capsule may extend. (Fig. 407.) At the same time, the patella is floated up from between the condyles, and when depressed with the finger, it rises again. In the elbow, the swelling projects on the posterior aspect of the joint, above the olecranon, and under the extensor muscles of the forearm. In the ankle, it presents on each side, between the lateral ligaments and the anterior tendons. In other joints less superficial, as the shoulder and hip, the swelling of synovitis is less perceptible; in the one being obscured by the cushion of the deltoid muscle; in the other, however, an evident fulness of the groin, and sometimes of the nates, can be detected. The wrist-joint is far less * Roy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 887. Synovial capsule of the knee-joint distended and thickened from chronic synovitis. A vertical section throngh the joint shows the height to which the capsule reaches —about four inches above the upper border of the patella, forming a sac between two and three inches iu depth, aud extending across the whole front of the thigh above the joint. (Hunter.) Fig. 407.*