SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 684 the bone, and as tlie consequence of syphilitic ostitis. Thus, moro often seen in the cranial bones, and as resulting from secondary syphilis, this form of caries attacks also the surface of the tibia, or of the ulna, affecting the subcutaneous parts of these bones. A some- what significant resemblance exists between the forms of syphilitic ulceration in bone and syphilitic eruption on the skin. Thus, Sir James Paget has described anmilar or circular, reticulated, and tuherculated ulcers of bone. But these various forms are more interesting patho- logically, than diagnostic. The Signs of Caries are the characters of carious bone, as just described. They are not declared until abscess having formed and discharged, the bone becomes exi^osed, or accessible. Superficial caries is more open to examination; but the introduction of a probe will readily discover the state of the bone, both in it and deep caries. Both forms of Caries, deep and superficial, are attended with pain, more or less deep-seated, redness and swelling of the integument; followed by suppuration and the formation of abscesses. The soft parts around then present the usual characters of increased swelling, fluctuation, and discolouration. Any such abscess bursting, discloses the carious state of the subjacent bone, or leads to a carious cavity, as discovered by a probe. Fistulous openings remain, discharging unhealthy pus mixed with the granular detritus of bone. (Fig. 300.) Large, out- cropping, abortive granulations spring up; and the surrounding integument has a congested purplish appearance. Caries evinces little disposition to any reparative changes. The Causes of Caries are those which produce inflammation of bone, especially as occurring under the influence of some constitutional con- dition. Scrofula and Syphilis Fig. 300.* thus not uncommonly affect the bones, and in the form of Caries; the disease arising often, ap- parently, without any external occasion of injury as an exciting cause. Treatment.—The removal of any cause in operation is the primary rale of treatment in this, as in all other conditions of disease. Hence the remedial measures appropriate for Con- stitutional Syphilis or Scrofiila will be requisite in most cases of Caries. Rest of the affected part is highly advantageous; but any topical appU- cations, as counter-irritation by iodine, blisters, or issues, are useless, compared with constitutional treatment. In an early stage, the disease may thus be arrested and the bone restored to a healthy state. Or,, under the influence of this treatment, disintegration proceeds only so far as to gradually remove the affected portion by a gritty discharge; recovery then taking place by granulation. Escharotics, such as the mineral acids, caustic potash, or the chloride- of zinc, have been used, or the actual cautery has been resorted to; with the view of completely destroying, and thus removing, carious bone, in order to gain a healthy surface for granulation. But littlfr * After Listen.