500 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 134. commonly external to the margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, the third part of the subclavian usually being affected. Its apparent size varies with the position of the shoulder, for the tumour disappears partly below the clavicle when the shoulder is raised. The annexed tigure shows the swftclavicular tumour which was presented in a case that came under my care in the Royal Free Hospital (June, 1877). (Fig. 134.) Pressure on the brachial plexus is accompanied with pain, and numbness down the arm even to the fingers; and the phrenic nerve also sometimes becoming disturbed, there may be spasmodic action of the diaphragm—hiccup —as an occasional symptom. The external jugular and subclavian veins suffering compression,oedema, particularly of the hand and arm, will be conspicuous in most cases. Diagnosis.—Other tumours may occasion similar symptoms; their differential characters, compared with those of aneurism, should therefore be remembered in consider- ing the diagnosis. (See Tumours in the Neck.) As possibly simu- lating subclavian aneurism, I may mention an instance of aneurism springing from the transversalis colli artery, the preparation of which exists in the Museum of St. George's Hospital, vi. 113a. Causes.—A traumatic origin can, generally, be traced—e.g., a blow, fall on the shoulder, or violent muscular exertion of the arm. Hence, the more frequent occurrence of subclavian aneurism on the right side, and, perhaps, in connection with an occupation requiring constant use of the right arm; and, certainly, the far greater liability of males than females. In 32 cases, 2 only occurred in females, and both from injury. Course and Terminations.—Slowly increasing in size, the tumour ultimately attains large dimensions ; occupying the space between the clavicle and trapezius muscle. Never passing inwards, the trachea and oesophagus escape pressure; neither dyspnoea nor dysphagia supervene. But the tumour may extend somewhat downwards, and thus encroach on the apex of the lung. Extending yet further, upwards or down- wards, the aneurism bursts externally, or internally with hgemorrhage into the pleura. Rarely, subclavian aneurism undergoes a spontaneous cure ; the sac becoming consolidated with laminated fibrine. Treatment.—Ligature of the subclavian, on the cardiac side, in the first part of its course. This operation has been practised for the cure of subclavian aneurism—in the third part of the vessel—i.e., beyond the scaleni, and when situated between these muscles—the second part. In the eleven cases recorded, all were fatal, in periods varying from the fourth to the thirteenth, twenty-second, and thirty-sixth day; and uniformly from hoemorrhage, excepting in one case, where death occurred from pericarditis and pleurisy. In my own case of aneurism, which was partly axillary, the patient, a man aged forty-two, first noticed a lump under the right