619 FEACTUBE OF THE CLAVICLE. these organs may evince symptoms of having suffered compression, without penetration. The Causes relate to various occasions of direct violence, as the "wheel of a carriage passing over the chest, or gunshot wound; but the clastic and yielding nature of the ribs and their cartilages, and the spongy texture of the sternum, resist fracture of this bone. Hence, although much exposed, it is rarely broken. But as age advances, and the costal cartilages undergo ossification, the liability to fracture of the sternum increases. Muscular action also is said to have caused fracture; as violent contraction of the abdominal muscles during par- turition, efforts at lifting heavy weights, or a fall on the back across a beam. Treatment.—Position is of some importance, to relax the abdominal muscles more especially, and thus prevent displacement of the lower portion of bone forwards, which would result in angular deformity. If the patient be recumbent, the pelvis should be slightly raised; or sitting up, the shoulders should inchne forwards. A broad bandage, encasing and fixing the chest, is applied, as for fractured ribs. It should be secured, observes Hamilton, when the patient is making a full expiration. Peactuke of the Clavicle.—Str^ictiiral Conditions.—The clavicle may be broken in any part of its extent; commonly, in one of its two curves, and particularly, in its outer or scapular Concavity. Fig. 209.* Rarely, fracture takes place external to the coraco-clavicular ligament—in that part of the bone between it and the acro- mion. (Pig. 209.) This dis- tinction is important with regard to symptoms, causes, and treatment. Hence, fractures of the clavicle are divided into those on the sternal and those on the scapiilar side of the coraco-clavicidar liga- ment,- which is attached to the rough oblique line on the under surface of about the outer inch and a half of the bone. On the sternal side of this ligament, fracture is usually oblique, from behind forwards and inwards (Fig. 210) ; but it may be commi- nuted, from direct violence. On the scapular side also, the bone may be similarly frac- tured. Displacement, in any notable degree, occurs only with fracture on the sternal side of the ligament, in the outer curve where the bone usually yields. The outer or scapular portion is alone displaced ; the inner portion being retained in position by the costo-clavicular ligament, * St. George's Hospital, 1, 80. See also another caso by Mr. Canton. Trans Path. Soc. vol. xii. Fig. 210.