SCROFULA. 229 oramilations and a gleety discharge ; although, sometimes pretending to heal, by this discharge crusting over its surface. Should cicatri- zation ensue, the scrofulous cicatrix appears drawn, puckered, and incomplete. Small bridges form across the ulcer, underneath which a probe can be passed readily, in and out, here and there. Nature does but " skin and film the ulcerous spot." Special Forms.—Scrofula is essentially a " pervading " disease. It blossoms and bears fruit chiefly in the absorbent glands, in the skin and cellular texture, mucous membranes, bones and joints, eyes, salivary glands, tonsils, ears, breasts, and in the testicles. Then, again, in some cases, various parts are simultaneously affected, in others consecutively; the scrofulous affection " migrating" from one texture or part to another texture or part. But their order of priority cannot be stated with accuracy. In some textures, the scrofulous affection is moi*e pro- nounced than in others. Ahsorhent glands, so called, appear to invite the deposit of scrofu- lous matter. At first soft and fleshy, these glands enlarge and harden; portions of each gland are observed to have altogether lost their flesh colour, and acquired a degree of transparen,cy, and a texture approach- ing to that of cartilage. At length, a soft, white, or yellowish, curd- like substance is deposited. Glandular tumours, thus formed about the neck and groin, sometimes attain an enormous size; in the latter situation, being perhaps half as lai'ge as the head of a new-born child. An enlarged scrofulous gland is not necessarily impervious—at least, mercury can be injected in many instances. Scrofulous glands are remarkably indolent, but eventually they soften and discharge the peculiar pus—flaky and ichorous, perhaps cretaceous matter; or they remain as soft and spongy tumours, beneath a thin, silky cuticle, which frequently breaks and oozes; or they waste, and are at length repre- sented only by a few bands of condensed cellular tissue attached to the cicatrized integument. Absorbent vessels are said to be rarely the receptacles of scrofulous matter, but there are such instances on record. Chronic enlargement with suppuration of the lymphatic glands is one of the earliest and most characteristic manifestations of scrofula. In childhood, therefore, these glands may be found as just described, in various stages of scrofulous inflammation and suppuration. Yet this is a rare event in children under two years of age. Cullen men- tions a case in which the disease broke out at the very early period of three months. Taking the other extreme, Thomson found the mesen- teric glands affected with scrofulous inflammation in persons of very advanced age. In various parts, also, of the body, the lymphatic glands may become scrofulous. Those in the neck—glandulm concatenatcB—are perhaps most frequently affected. This enlargement of the cervical glands is apt to arise from slight and transitory injuries and affections of the hairy scalp, ears, eyes, nose, and more particularly from slight and temporary affections of the teeth, gums, and other parts within the mouth. Decay of the first teeth is often the immediate cause of scrofulous glandular swellings in the neck, bat their eruption, seldom or never. The axillary and crural glands are less frequently affected than those of the neck. The mesenteric glands are very liable to undergo scrofulous inflammation, constituting that formidable disease