526 Si^CIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. course, it lies, at first, on the inner side of the internal carotid and then superficial to that vessel. But its depth varies below and above the digastric muscle, or a line drawn from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone. Below that muscle or line, the external carotid is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, the platysma, and deep fascia; then, passing beneath the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles and hypoglossal nerve, which cross obliquely, the artery enters the substance of the parotid gland, beneath the facial nerve and the external jugular vein. Here then the artery is deepest, and inaccessible. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the pharynx and the superior laryngeal nerve; and above the angle of the jaw, on the styloid process and glosso- pharygneal nerve, which separates it from the internal carotid. To the inner side is the pharynx, and above, the ramus of the jaw" and stylo-maxillary ligament. On the outer side, the internal carotid lies parallel with the external carotid, at the origin of the two vessels; but this relationship is soon lost, as the external vessel becomes more superficial in passing to its destination. More externally, the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds to the artery. (2.) The internal carotid, arising from the bifurcation of the common trunk (see Fig. 151), extends upwards to the carotid foramen in the temporal bone ; and there, passing through the carotid canal in that bone, it enters the cranimn. The cervical portion, limited by the carotid foramen, varies in depth—like the external carotid—with its relation to the digastric muscle. Below that muscle, the artery is covered only by the skin and superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia; then passing beneath the external carotid, separated by the styloid process and glosso-pharyngeal nerve—at the angle of the jaw— it lies under the deep surface of the parotid gland, until it enters the carotid foramen. Posteriorly, the artery rests on the transverse pro- cesses of the upper cervical vertebrse ; the rectus anticus major muscle, sympathetic and superior laryngeal nerves, intervening. Internally, the pharynx and tonsil are in contact; and the ascending pharyngeal artery runs up, on the pharynx, between the vessel and the external carotid. Bxternally, the internal jugular vein runs side by side with the artery, and the pneumogastric nerve behind and between the two ; these structures having the same relation as to the common carotid, of which the internal carotid seems to be the continuation. The hypoglossal nerve comes forward between the vein and artery, and passes inwards over the latter to gain the lower border of the digastric muscle, over the external carotid; thus crossing both arteries superficially. The inner margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle corresponds to the artery, externally. Operation.—The neck must be well exposed, as for the ligature of the common carotid. Guided by the sterno-mastoid, an incision along its inner margin—from the angle of the jaw to just above the level of the thyroid cartilage—will lead down to the internal carotid (see Fig. 1.52) ; and a little more internally, to the external carotid (see Fig. 152). The digastric muscle and hypoglossal nerve crossing the latter near the upper angle of the incision, identify this artery. A small aperture is made in the sheath of the vessel to be ligatured, and an aneurism- needle passed betwixt it and the vein; as in the operation on the common carotid.