179 TUMOUES OE MOEBID GEOWTHS. endoo-enous cells. They present many varieties of appearance, wliicTi may be regarded as the results o£ one or more nuclei, enclosed within cells, assuming, or tending to assume, the characters of nucleated cells. The "globes epidermiques" of Lebert (Fig. 61)—" lami- nated capsu les,'' Paget—are the most singular and character- istic structures of epithelial cancer, yet not peculiar to this disease; nor are they, appa- rently, special structures, for they consist of epithelial scales. These capsules are very large and spherical cysts, containing granular matter, nuclei, or cells, ob- scurely seen within them; and clustered so as to almost appear as if fused together; but each capsule consists of epithelial scales, superim- posed in successive layers, thus forming a laminated capsule. Such are the structural elements of epithelial cancer. They are found infiltrated—principally in the substance of the skin or mucous membrane—but not uniformly diffused throughout the component textures of the part affected. The cancer-cells may predominate in the corium, forming a swelling very slightly elevated above, or imbedded below, the proper level of the integument, and the depth or thickness of which is much less than its dimensions laterally; or these cells may predominate in the papilire, presenting a prominent warty or exuberant out-growth; or, tlae sub- integumental texture may be their chief seat, forming a deeper-seated, flat, or rounded mass. OY these varieties, the first two maybe named the superficial or out- growing ; while the third is the deep-seated form of epithelial cancer. Paget believes that either of these principal varieties may occur in any of the usual seats of this disease, but that they are not both equally common in every such part. The superficial, and especially those which have the characters of warty and cauliflower-like out-growths, are most frequently found on mucous membranes, especially of the genital organs; those also on the extremities and the scrotum have usually a well-marked warty character, and are rarely sub-integumental. The deep-seated are more frequent in the tongue than elsewhere. It must not be forgotten, however, that these distinctions are more airparent than essential. Their value consists in reference to the earliest and most exact diagnosis of this disease, in whichever form it may chance to make its first appearance. For subsequently, and especially when ulceration has commenced, an epithelial cancer which was superficial or exuberant, is prone to extend into deep-seated parts ; and one at first deeply seated may grow out exuberantly. Moreover, when ulceration is progressing, a greater uniformity of external ap- pearance is found; because, in general, while all that was superficial or exuberant is being destroyed, the base of the cancer is constantly extending, both widely and deeply, into the sub-integumental tissues. * Object to the left, a single globe epidermiqiie. (Lebert.) Object to the right, formation of a hmiiuatcd epithelial capsule, by endogenous development of nuclei into nucleated cella, their detrusion, and concentric lamination. (Rokitausky.) Fig. 61.*