DISLOCATION. 717 caused dislocation, it is then dravra inwards, and eventually there fixed. But, immediately after Dislocation, the muscles are always partially paralyzed by the shock to the nervous system consequent on the injury, and for a short period they remain powerless. Subse- quently, their tonic contraction comes into operation. Therefore, at the time of dislocation, and soon after, the displacement caused by muscular action can be easily replaced ; and any resistance of this kind may be partly neutralized by a position suitable to the further relaxation of the antagonistic muscles. This, then, is the earliest con- dition of dislocation, ere the muscles complete the displacement; and this the most favourable opportunity for its reduction, when the muscles are as yet powerless. Thus, immediately after a dislocation of the femur backwards, Listen, having this opportunity, immediately reduced it, on the spot, without pulleys, or even the help of an assistant. If Dislocation be overlooked or neglected for a few hours, tbe muscles will then have become more immovably adapted to their new lines of action; subsequently, they become shortened also ; a new joint is in process of formation; the track through which the head of bone has passed is occupied with plastic lymph; if the rent in the ligaments be small, this aperture tightly embraces the neck of th.e displaced bone, which becomes adherent and more fixed; and lastly, the natural articular surface or cavity gradually undergoes oblitera- tion. Replacement is, at length, scarcely practicable, if possible, and certainly not to be accomplished without endangering many structures —muscles, nerves, vessels, and perchance the bone itself; nor without re-opening the track through which the head of bone had passed, and re-rupturing the ligaments ; and even then only to find the natural articular cavity effaced or obliterated. Delay, therefore, proportion- ately precludes replacement by any conservative surgical interference. The rules of treatment are precisely analogous to those relating to Fracture. (1.) Bednction and Coaptation, or replacement of the displaced head of bone in relation to its natural articular surface or cavity. This implies a suitable position of the limb, as far as possible; to relax the antago- nistic muscles which, by their tonic action, retain the head of bone in its new position. But coaptation also implies extension and counter- extension of the limb, sufficient only to bring the head of bone parallel to its natural articular surface or cavity; the " reduction " of dislocation. Coaptation is then readily effected. ' (2) Maintenance of Coaptation, during the reparative process of re-union of the torn ligaments, tendons, etc. This still pre-supposes a suitable position; not, however, with the view of relaxing such mus- cular contraction as maintains coaptation, but for the prevention of re-displacement by the spasmodic action of antagonistic muscles. But it also implies the employment of suitable retentive appliances; and both, to ensure rest. The Reduction of Dislocation is & process; in this respect differing from the reduction of Fracture, which is readily effected. In Disloca- tion, reduction must be accomplished by retracing the displacement which has been caused by the muscles in operation; the head of bone being conducted, through the course it has thus taken, back to the point where muscular action began. Tonic contraction of the muscles