SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. 803 enlargement of the knee-joint, for example, thus differs notably in its characters from the swelling of Synovitis. The absence of pain in the first instance, and for a considerable period, is also diagnostic. In either disease, the limb becomes somewhat flexed, from muscular action prevailing in that direction. The general health remains comparatively undisturbed up to this period. Necrosis in the articular end of a bone might be mistaken for scro- fulous caries, as in disease of the knee-joint. But the absence of the peculiar globular swelling wiU be noticed, while the thigh becomes progressively enlarged (Fig. 415); and in a Fig. 415.* later stage, when abscess has formed and burst, a fistulous opening is seen above the joint, and Fig. 416.t by introducing a probe the sequestrum may be detected. Course and Terminations.—Scrofulous caries of a joint may subside, leaving only some oede- matous swelling and stiffness of the joint. Or, the disease progresses, both to the surface and the interior of the joint. In the one direction, as the disease advances, the periosteum becomes detached, supimration takes place around the joint, and sinus-openings form, leading down to worm-eaten carious bone, and giving' vent to a foul discharge. The textures are undermined and traversed by sinuses in various tortuous ways, according to the anatomical relations of the joint, (rig- 416.) Towards the joint, as caries extends, the nutrition of the cartilages, depending on the osteal vessels, becomes impaired. Their attachment to the bone is loosened, and they acquire a fibrous character. Ulceration commences usually on the deep or osseous sur- face of the cartilages; as a disintegration equivalent to the carious state of the bone. Portions of cartilage may be detached and lie loose within the joint. Sometimes the ulceration assumes a peculiar form, which has been named " spotted ulceration ; " there being several pits containing a curdy matter in the articular surfaces, and which corre- spond to pits in the bone, while the intervening portions of cartilage remain unaltered. Ulceration of the articular cartilage is announced by painful start- ings of the limb, occurring particularly at night. Synovitis speedily supervenes, and the formation of matter within the joint. The opposite * Royal Free Hospital. Amputation of the opposite thigh for necrosis; there was also angular curvature of the spine. (Author.) t After Liston.