GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 46 are open to inspection. The redness may be circumscribed, as in phlegmonous inflammation; or diffused, as in the erysipelatous. Ha3- morrhagic redness, arising from the interstitial extravasation of blood, in the form of spots or petechias, may be an accidental coincidence with, or result from, inflammatory engorgement of the capillary vessels; but increased redness from this source will be readily dis- tinguished from that of inflammation, the one remaining under pressure with the finger, the other disappearing when the engorged vessels are thus emptied. Persistent redness, such as I have described, is the earliest an- nouncement of inflammation, and also its most exact indication, being invariably present even when unseen, a sign of no other kind of hypersemia, and the measure of its own. The exceptional case of a growing part, e.g. new bone, or the gravid uterus, having similar redness, scarcely invalidates the general fact that this sign is, other- wise, peculiar to inflammation. Nor does its exceptional absence in extra-vascular tissues, e.g. cartilage and the cornea, affect the other- wise general constancy of this hyperasmia. Even in such cases the adjoining textures exhibit its characteristic appearance, as by a zone of redness around the cornea, in corneitis, and increased vascularity of the adjoining bone, in inflammation of cartilage. In either case, the seat of hyperaemia coincides with the capillaiy plexus which is subservient to the healthy nutrition of the part inflamed. Redness from the development of new vessels in an inflamed parb is not an early occurrence, but a consequence of the process of in- flammation. (2.) Seat is another local sign, partly due to the determination of blood; as such it is proportionate thereto, and to the number of vessels through which the extra supply of arterial blood is passing. But the increase of temperature will be perceptible only according to the superficial situation of the inflamed part, and the facility with which heat is transmitted through any intervening textures. Is heat generated by inflammation ? The flow of arterial blood, and therefore of red blood-corpuscles charged with oxygen, may pos- sibly generate heat. Yet the experiments of John Hunter show that the temperature of an inflamed part never rises more than two or three degrees, and scarcely, if ever, above the average heat of arterial blood—say, from ninety-eight to one hundred degrees Fahr. On the other hand, the experiments of Becquerel and Breschet, and the more recent "thermo-electric " observations of Mr. Simon and Dr. E. Mont- gomery are apparently conclusive on this point—that an inflamed part is no mere passive recipient of heat, but is itself actively calorific. For among the observed results are these :— " That the arterial blood supplied to an inflamed limb is less warm than the focus of inflammation itself. " That the venous blood returning from an inflamed limb, though found less warm than the focns of inflammation, is warmer than the arterial blood supplied to the limb; and, " That the venous blood returning from aii inflamed limb is warmer than the corresponding current on the opposite side of the body." Granting, then, that the inflammatory process unquestionably involves a local production of heat, "to interpret this fact," adds Mr. Simon, "is perhaps, in the present state of physics, not possible."