878 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUROERY. the artery ib securely sealed. Accessory, but incidental only, to the pre- vention of hjemorrhage, are certain changes whereby either portion of the artery adjoining the ligature is obhterated. The vessel having ceased to convey blood when the ligature was applied, the blood stagnant above and below, to the nearest collateral branch, has gradually under- gone coagulation in the shape of two conical clots, the bases of which accurately plug the artery on either side of the thread. The apex of the clot on the cardiac side tails off, usually opposite the first collateral branch above, through which the stream of blood, now diverted from its course, is carried off from the main. The distal clot is always less defined. At first either clot has the appearance of ordinary coagu- lum, subsequently it becomes mottled with paler spots, and its sub- stance porous, and ultimately acquires a buff colour, firm consistence, and fibrous texture. Blood-vessels, proceeding from the lymph imme- diately above and below the ligature, shoot into the base of either clot, and gi'adually extend towards its apex. Finally, these organized fibrous clots are incorporated with the lymph adjoining, which has acquired a similar structure; the coats of the unused portions of artery degene- rating, also assume a fibrous character; and the whole is converted into a small, firm, impervious, fibrous cord, extending usually to the first collateral branch above and below. Nature having safely severed the artery, under compression by the ligature, and securely sealed either end, has now obliterated the portions useless as a blood-conveying tube. Certain advantages, and disadvantages, attend the use of the ligature. Appropnate for the arrest of hemorrhage which would otherwise be persistent or recurring and perilous, the objections to ligature are:— the production of a slough or sloughs of arterial texture, according to the number of vessels ligatured—and thence the liability of secondary hjEmorrhage; the introduction of a foreign body, or as many foreign bodies, into the flesh-wound—a condition which, in conjunction with that of the arterial slough-rings, is antagonistic to the process of healing by primary adhesion; and that suppuration consequently, and the sloughs, are provocative of pyaemia. The efficacy of ligature in the treatment of haemorrhage from wounds of arteries, of flesh-wounds, and in relation to pyaemia, is to be estimated by all these considerations; and thence the value of this method of treatment as compared with that of "acupressure," proposed to supei'sede it. Certain particulars are of great moment in the application of a ligature ; the observance of which a due knowledge of the process which is thus induced for the arrest of htemorrhage, can alone insure. It is in this light that I specially here advert to them. But they have reference also to the value of ligature, as a method of treatment; for they determine the probability of haemorrhage recurring or super- vening, and also of the healing of a flesh-wound by primaiy adhesion when an artery or arteries are thus secured. The practical particulars having this twofold significance are these: —A ligature should be applied so as to cut through the two inner coats of the artery, leaving only the outer more-resisting cellular coat and sheath. Hence the ligature must be a small, round, and strong thread, fine silk twist waxed being found to answer best. Applied with sufficient tightness for this purpose; and also to induce sloughing of the outer coat by stra^igulating compression. Applied tran.wcrseh/ across the diameter of the vessel, observing to pi-css the loop down