SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGEBY. 808 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, 32. Ibid, 2. 33. tive process itself as pertaining to the elemental structures, in health and disease. In respect to ulceration of the articular cartilages, tlie researches of Goodsir and Redfem, more particularly, have shown tbat it represents a vital alteration, in the cartilaginous structure itself ; and that the influence of the neighbouring blood-vessels is only indirect or secondary. As consequent on inflammation of the synovial memhrane—synovitis, or of the ione—ostitis, ulceration of articular cartilage may be named' Inflammatory ulceration, or secondary, in its relation to the original disease. Similar ulceration may perhaps occur as an original disease of the cartilage, and is hence named primary ulceration. But this state would seem to be, usually, a degenerative disintegration. De- generation also precedes inflammatory ulceration when the disease originates in hone, and extends to the cartilage as a secondary affection. Ulceration may begin, either on the Fig. 421.* y^gg surface of articular cartilage, or on its Pig. 422.t attached surface; and at its margin, where the synovial membrane is reflected over it (Fig. 421), or in the substance of the cartilage. In the hip, it may commence close to the attachment of the round ligament; or in the knee, adjoining the crucial ligaments. Forming shallow excavations, these assume the appearance of grooves, at a greater or less distance from the margin and frequently in the central parts of the cartilage. Nearly the whole cartilage may disappear, leaving only a few isolated reddened patches. In contrast with ulceration, gouty deposit appears in the form of white patches, but raised above the level of the cartilage (Fig. 422), which might otherwise be mistaken for ulceration. Inflammatory ulceration, consequent on synovitis, presents the following alterations on the free surface of the cartilage. The colour of the cartilage is altered in spots; which either rapidly become holes, as if cut out with a chisel, or the spots assume a fibrous aspect, and becoming excavated, form pits with fringed margins. In this way, the cartilage may be extensively destroyed, and the bone laid bare. Or, and especially in scrofulous synovitis, a thick vascular membrane forms, which passes from the diseased synovial membrane over the cartilage. The cartilage is slowly transformed into a kind of granulation, between which and a similar material growing from the synovial membrane, adhesions ensue, resulting in absolute continuity. When ulceration of the cartilage has extended deeply, the bone becomes