348 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. are manifested, in tlie form of spasm, contraction, or sometimes of a paralytic character; and various exaltations or perversions of the special senses may perhaps bo superadded to the list, the eye being intolerant of light, the ear of sound, or the smell perverts every odour to a stench, and the taste prefers wormwood to honey. Sometimes there are strong cravings for certain things, digestible or indigestible. Thus, I have known an hysterical lady suck lemons with avidity; and other patients have been disposed to eat chalk. But the most remarkable and practically important feature in the local manifestations of Hysteria is this—that any such affection is apt to imitate and simulate or represent actual disease of the part, espe- cially^ of an inflammatory character. Under tliese circumstances, there- fore, in proceeding to the diagriosis, there is always the liability, not only of regarding structural disease as merely local hysteric, and thus of overlooking the requisite treatment; but the far more serious error may be committed—that of mistaking a local hysteric affection for structural disease, and of thence determining the treatment, as perhaps by having recourse to some surgical operation on the part which is apparently diseased. Now, the characters of hysteric fain are these :—The pain is exces- sive, and disproportionate to any other symptom of the simulated disease ; but the pain is also peculiar, in being cutaneous or superficial, rather than affecting any presumably diseased deeper structures, and it extends to perhaps far beyond the supposed seat of disease. This diffused and superficial or integumental pain is elicited on the slightest touch, and may then amount to agony ; at times, however, it may be altogether absent, or suddenly it settles in some other part, and in either case of capricious cessation, the feigned disease vanishes. A deceptive appearance sometimes accompanies and remains after this local nervous affection; the part may be somewhat swollen, and thus slightly increased in size and altered in shape. But the dispropor- tionate severity of the pain to the other symptoms of apparent disease in the j)art affected, will always attract attention; the comparative absence of other symptoms is no less remarkable; and, lastly, the absence of any constitutional disorder of local origin. Thus, in an hysteric affection of the knee-joint, as compared with inflammation, the severity of the pain, and its association with only a slight redness, or bluish discolouration, and slight puffy swelling, are sufficiently dis- tinctive, and more so when taken in connection with the absence of inflammatory fever, passing on perhaps to hectic. vSometimes an hysteric affection becomes engrafted on a previous and independent disease of the part; but even then the hysteric character is always predominant. Should the diagnosis still be doubtful, any difficulty may often be cleared up by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform ; for when pain and functional disturbance, as with relation to the knee-joint, are thus subdued, any structural disease of the part may be discovered more readily. To impress upon the Student the peculiarities of hysteric pain, and, at least, remind the Practitioner of the kind of cases Avith regard to which he will often have to exercise a critical judgment, we may briefly notice the more common forms of local Hysteria, and which come under the notice of the Surgeon. In relation to the joints, no better clinical illustration can be given