TETANUS. 339 period of probation intervening, are probably due to the influence of predisposition. A scratch of the thumb by a broken plate, proved fatal in a quarter of an hour; and in other cases, a slight blow, as by a whip- lash under the eye, although the skin was unbroken, has been followed by tetanus. In such cases, some predisposing condition probably was also in operation. Age.—No period of life is exempt; but, perhaps, infancy and middle age are most subject. In infants, the disease—then named trismus nascentmvi—appears from seven to fourteen days after birth. It may terminate fatally in ten or thirty hours, or life be pro- longed to eight or nine days. Its origin is apparently traumatic; namely, from division of the umbilical cord, or irritation of the intes- tines by meconium, or worms; or it has been traced to unwholesome food, bad ventilation, or exposure to currents of air. It occurs very frequently in the Tropics, occasionally in Europe. Sex.—Males are most liable to tetanus, in a ratio of about seven to one female. Hahits of life seem to have little influence, the disease attacking equally the temperate and the intemperate. Gonstitidional suscR])tihility is not apparent; individuals of any temperament being equally liable. Climate.—The disease is more prevalent in warm climates and in marshy districts; also near the sea-coast than inland. Nevertheless, season of the year is said to have no influence on the occurrence, or the mortality, of tetanus. Course, and Terminations.—(1.) Grenerally, tetanus proceeds in a con- tinuous course of development; affecting the muscular system, in the order akeady mentioned, and terminates fatally. About the second or third day, as acute tetanus; the ninth or tenth day, as chronic tetanus. But the former is commonly fatal, the latter far less so. The mode of death is, usually, during a imroxysm affecting chiefly the muscles of the larynx; which, by complete closure of the glottis, produce almost instant suffocation. The slightest attempt to move, or to swallow, seems to excite this issue. I witnessed it in one case, during the attempt to swallow an opiate pill. A sudden jerk of the throat took place, a suffusion of the face, succeeded by deadly pallor, and all was over. Exhaustion is another, but less frequent mode of death. (2.) Recovery is preceded by a gradual subsidence of the tetanic contractions ; and this happy issue is generally granted to the few who survive the tenth day. It is also stated, that the longer the period of prolation, before the commencement of tetanus, the greater is the pro- bability of recovery. Conversely, the shorter the period of probation, as well as the more rapid the progress of the disease, the more surely fatal is the issue. But this, perhaps, general rule is exceptional in many cases of rapid progress, after the probationary period of ten days. Prognosis.—The prognosis of tetanus will be guided by a due con- sideration of the conditions which chiefly determine its tendency to a fatal issue, or to recovery. They are, principally, the traumatic or idiopathic origin of the disease, the influence of predisposition, as evinced by its speedy accession, and its acute or chronic progress. Treatment.—Preventive measures are the most, or only, effectual resources. This implies the early detection and removal of any per- sistent causes in operation ; such intervention necessarily ha,ving refer- ence to local causes, rather than to constitutional conditions, which mostly elude detection or are beyond control. Hence prevention is practicable more frequently in tetanus of trawnatic origin. Happily,