576 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. circumferentially, with fistulous openings through which portions of the glandular mass protrude, it will be requisite to destroy such a mass by introducing a stick of caustic potash into its substance and turiiinc it freely about.^ Thus also any induration may be dissolved. A stimu- lant and tonic plan of treatment must take the place of any depletory measures, during suppuration or in chronic induration ; and removal of the latter may, perhaps, be aided by iodide of potassium in conjunc- tion with this treatment. Extirpation of the lymphatic glands in a state of chronic induration becomes necessary as a last resource. I have removed such glands ; in particular, a conglomerate bunch of axillary glands, which was found to consist of degenerate gland-tissue, enclosing spots of yellow, curdy pus, and cretaceous matter. Fistulous openings afterwards proved troublesome, but these closed under stimulating injections. Enlargements, and Tumours of Lymphatic Glands.—Lymplioma.— The term Lymphoma is applied to a class of tumours which in structure resemble that of the lymphatic glands. Commonly, this form of growth consists of a chronic enlargement or hypertroph}^ of the lymphatic glands themselves; but, associated with this con- dition, there are often a number of similar growths, in the form of distinct tumours,—beyond the normal number of enlarged glands, yet having the lymphatic structure. Lymphomatous tumours may also occur in parts of the body unconnected with the absorbent glands. The characters of lymphoma are similar to those of scrofulous enlargement of these glands,—as already noticed among the numerous local manifestations of scrofula; but for accuracy of description I shall follow Billroth's account of lymphoma. For a long time the glands preserve their kidney shape, and remain isolated, althougli clustered. Continuing to enlarge, these glandular tumours unite and form a lobulated mass, of a firm and elastic consistence; tender perhaps, but scarcely painful. The growth may then be arrested, and the conglomerate mass remain; causing only more or less com- pression and functional derangement of Fig. 183. the adjoining parts; or the tumour may slowly pass into caseous degexieratiou, with ulceration of the integument. All the lymphatic glands are not equally disposed to this disease; usually the cervical, less frequently the axillary and inguinal, most rarely the abdominal and bronchial. As forming in the axilla, the appearances were well marked in a case under Mr. De Morgan in the Middlesex Hospital. (Fig. 183.) The tumour oc- curred iu the person of a man, aged forty-five, of apparently healthy con- stitution. It had been growing for about four years ; was firm and elastic,' but fluctuation could be felt at the most prominent part towards the outer side; the skin was there getting thin and bluish red, and adherent. The veins over the surface were enlarged. No pain or tenderness. The axillary artery could be felt above the tumour, and separate from it. After removal, the