KHEUMATISM AND GOTJT. 245 add ordinary strong acetic acid, in the proportion of six minims to each, fluid di-achm of serum, which usually causes the evolution of a few bubbles of gas. When the fluids are well mixed, introduce a very fine thread, consisting of from one to tliree ultimate fibres, about an inch, in length, from a piece of unwashed huckaback, or other linen fabric, which should be depressed by means of a small rod, as a probe or point of a pencil. The glass should then be put aside in a moderately warm place until the serum is quite set and almost dry; the mantel-piece in a room of the ordinary temperature, or a book-case, answers very well, the time varying from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, depending on the warmth and dryness of the atmosphere. " Should uric acid be present in the serum in quantity above a certain small amount, it will crystallize, and during its crystallization will be attracted to the thread, and assume forms not nnlike that presented by sugar-candy on a string. This may then be examined by a linear magnifying power of about fifty or sixty, procured with an inch object-glass and low eye-piece, or a single lens of one-sixth of an inch focus answers perfectly. The uric acid is found in rhombs, the size of the crystals vai-ying with the rapidity with which the drying of the serum has been effected and the quantity of uric acid in the blood." An amount of uric acid equal to at least 0'025 grains in 1000 grains of serum, in addition to the trace existing in health, must accumulate before this experiment gives indication of its presence. Premonitory symptoms, however, coupled perhaps with the signal given by this test, announce that gout is impending. Hygienic Causes.—Certain habits of life predispose to gont, and certain other habits of an opposite character have an opposite tendency. Indulgence in animal food more particularly, and stimulating drinks; generally, in point of fact, what is called " rich living," together with a sedentary, idle life; these are the acknowledged parents of gont; while moderation in the " pleasures of the table," even abstinence, with a life of active exercise, has no such offspring. Luxnry and ease have long since been mistrusted as unqualified advantages compared with the apparent hardships of earning daily bread, by daily labour; so much so, that Abernethy's pithy advice, " Live on sixpence a day, and earn it"—pointing, as it does, to the two elements, food and exertion, in relation to gout—has passed into a proverb. Treatment.—Preventive. — The regulation of diet according to exercise—of bodily supply to expenditure—is the preventive measure fui-nished by experience. But experience is insufficient for practical purposes. It affords no clue to the right understanding of the physiological relation subsisting between food and exercise, nor of the pathological relation between these hygienic requirements, and which guides the rational prevention of gout. Physiological Chemistry having first demonstrated the fact that all kinds of animal food, more especially, furnish uric acid in their transit through the body, by indigestion, or by metamorphosis of the muscular textures, it becomes obvious that the balance between the production and elimination of uric acid can alone be adjusted and regulated by a supply of animal food in proportion only to the textural waste from bodily exercise. Then, Chemical Pathology contributed the additional and com- plemental fact, that uric acid existing as urate of soda in abnormal