FuUications by Baillihre, Tindall, and Cox. 9 A Treatisf) on Pharmacy, designed as a Text-book for Stu dents.- and as a Guide for the Pliysician and Pharmacist, containing the officinal and many unofficinal Formulas, and numerous examples of extemporaneous Prescriptions. By Edward Parrish, Fourth Edit., enlarged and revised by T. S. Wiegand, F.C.S. With 280 Illustrations, half-bound morocco, 30^. " There is nothing- to equal Parrish's Pharmacy in this or any other lan- guage. "—Pharmaceutical yonrnal. The PharmacopcBial Companiou to the Visiting List. Being a Posologtcal Table of all the Medicines of the British Pharmacopoeia, arranged according to their action. By R. T. H. Bartley, M.D., M.B. Lend., Surgeon to the Bristol Ii)ye Hospital. 2nd edit., 6d. The Specific Action of Drugs. An Index to their Thera- peutic Value. By Alexander G. Burness, M.D., and F. Mayor, President of the Central Lond. Veterinary Society, los. 6d. Short Lectures on Experimental Chemistry. Introduc- tory to the general course. By J. Emerson Reynolds, F.C.S., M.R.C.P., Professor of Chemistry, Royal College of Surgeons, Pro- fessor of Analytical Chemistry, and Keeper of the Minerals, Royal Dublin Society. 35-. 6d. Chemistry in its Application to the Arts and Manufac- tures. A Text-Book by Richardson and Watts. Vol. I. : Parts I and 2.—Fuel and its Applications. 433 Engravings, and 4 Plates . . . £1 16s. Part 3.—Acids, Alkalies, Salts, S oap, Soda, Chlorine and its Bleaching Compounds, Iodine, Bromine, Alkalimetry, Glycerine, Railway Grease, &c., their Manufacture, and Applications . , . 13^. Part 4.—Phosphorus Mineral Waters, Gunpowder, Gun- cotton, Fireworks, Aluminium, Stannates, Tung states, Chromates and Silicates of Potash and Soda, Lucifer Matches • . . . ij. Part 5.—Prussiate of Potash, Oxalic Acid, Tartaric Acid," Many Tables, Plates, and Wood Engravings,;^! i6j-. Parts 3, 4, and 5 separately, forming a complete Practical Treatise on Acids, Alkalies, and Salts: their Manufacture and Application, In three vols., £^ los. ^—3