SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 528 tlie second portion, beneath the scalenus; and the third, from the outer border of that muscle to the lower margin of the first rib. The anterior scalenus muscle is thus the boundary between the inner and outer portions of the subclavian artery, and of the middle portion beneath that muscle. (1.) Internal to the anterior scalenus, the artery ascends slightly outwards, and is deeply placed. (Fig. 153.) Covered by the skin, platysma, and fascia, it is also concealed by the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid and by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles Fig. 153.* Deeper still, and immediately in front of the artery crossing it from above downwards, are the pneumogastric nerve and the internal jugular vein; the latter having inclined outwards from the common carotid in the lower part of the neck, leaves a triangular interval between these two vessels. Along the base of this interval lies the subclavian artery; the pneumogastric descends vertically over it, and sends off its re- current laryngeal branch, which hooks up behind the vessel. Posteriorly, the artery is opposite to the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and longus colli muscle, but separated by a cellular interval; in which the trunk of the sympathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerve are in more immediate relation, the latter having hooked round the artery. la- feriorhj, the artery lies on the pleura; and lower down, the corre- sponding portion of the subclavian vein runs transversely inwards to join the internal jugular, in forming the innominate vein, behind the sterno-clavicular articulation. * Subclavian Artery and Nerves.—a, subclavian trunk, giving off its branches, vertebral (ascending), internal mammary (desceiuliug), and the thyroid axis, show- ing two of its branches—the supra-scapular and transverse cervical—cut; h, common carotid; c, external camtid. Nerves : ti, pneumogastric, with recurrent branch passing round the subclavian artery; c, hypoglossal; /, superior laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric; (/, thyroid-hyoid brancli of the hypoglossal; 7t, descendens noni branch, cut; i, phrenic nerve, on the anterior scalenus muscle; k, brachial plexus. (Ellis, " Illustrations of Dissections," reduced.)