THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF SURGERY. 6 uric acid; the octohodral and dumb-bell crystals of oxalate of lime ; and the prismatic, foliaceous, penniform, or stellate crystals of phos- phatic deposits ; will severally suffice to identify the morbid conditions of urine, which physical characters, and even chemical tests, perhaps, will not so surely determine. Organized forms occurring in the urine, may supply evidence equally trustworthy; casts of the uriniferous tubules, with blood and pus-corpuscles, presenting their characteristic appearances under the microscope, in connection with acute desquama- tive nephritis. Or, the artificial production of certain organized forms in urine, after its emission, may be the means of diagnosis; as by the yeast-plant in the urine of diabetes mellitus. Chemical diagnosis seems to contend with the structural method, for superiority, in regard to its scientific exactitude. Destined, probably, hereafter to become the most minute method of detecting and discriminating the essential changes which constitute morbid conditions, chemical diagnosis has already thrown a vivid and pene- trating light on certain classes of diseases which appertain to Surgery. Urinary Pathology, forming a neutral ground for research, has been cultivated by the labours of Prout, Bence Jones, Golding Bird, Leh- mann, Julius Vogel, N^eubauer, Owen Rees, Lionel Beale, Thudichum, Parkes, W. Roberts, Hassall, and other physicians; but Urinary Deposits have to be examined also by surgeons, if they would practise their art in the light of modern progress. All the various morbid conditions of the urine are of diagnostic importance in the treatment of surgical diseases, and relative to the favourable circumstances for surgical operations and their after-treatment. This source of guidance is often the key to the successes and failures of surgical practice in dilferent hands. Albuminuria is specially significant. The escape of albumen in the urine and the retention of urea in the blood,—the daily loss of so much nutriment in one of its highest forms, and the accompanying ureal blood-poisoning,—constitute a process so destructive, that, if overlooked, it would undermine any good results in the whole range of operative surgery. Phosphatic urine, in con- nection with cystitis, is specially ominous in the treatment of stone in the bladder, as to the relative safety of lithotrity and lithotomy. Now, the chemical tests for these, and all other morbid conditions of the urine, have been reduced to practical forms so simple and conclusive, as to be readily available to every one engaged, and almost under any pressure of time, in Surgical Practice. Diagnosis may be confirmed by the functional disturbances, which, as symptoms, accompany the particular injury or disease ; also by connect- ing either condition with its cause or causes; and by the characteristic effects of the operative or medicinal treatment employed. For example, pain, and inabihty to use a limb, are symptoms in aid of the physical diagnosis of Fracture or Dislocation, although the same symptoms may occur from even a sprain, without either such injury; and the functional disturbances arising from the pressure of a Tumour on surrounding parts are similar, with reference to Tumours of very dis- similar nature. In further aid of diagnosis, the external cause of an injury or disease, may be taken into account; the crushing violence to which a limb has been subjected, being presumptive evidence of a comminuted fracture ; or the direction in which force has been applied, will perhaps indicate the form of a dislocation. Lastly, the