INFLAMMATION. 101 An issue is applied in the following manner:—Take a -piece of adhesive plaster, say three inches square, and having cut a round central aperture, the size of a sixpence, fix it upon the part where the issue is to be formed. Then place a small piece of caustic potash, the size of a pea, in the central hole of the shield, and cover over with another piece of plaster. The severe burning pain of cauterization passes ofl: in the course of a few hours, when the plasters may be removed ; a black eschar is seen, which should be poulticed for a few days, until it comes away, leaving an ulcer in the form of a hole. To maintain the discharge, insert a pea or a glass bead, which may be smeared occasionally with savine ointment. A few examples vnll illustrate the remedial value of this class of agents in inflammation. Blistering the skin is very serviceable in chronic and deep-seated inflammation of the bones and joints. In chronic arthritis, the bulky ends of bone which form the knee-joint and their articular cartilages, are most advantageously influenced by the action of blisters, placed above or below the joint. A seton or issue, which produces a constant discharge of pus from the neighbourhood of the vertebrsE, is often of signal service in caries of the bodies of these bones. When applied to the nape of the neck, the same beneficial eSect is witnessed in chronic meningeal inflammation of the brain. Of caustics, the potass-fusa is sometimes useful in similar cases, but it is comparatively seldom employed. I rarely use this kind of caustic; and, indeed, it seems to be going out of fashion. Nitrate of silver, lunar caustic, promotes the resolution of a whitlow, a bunion, a hordeolum or sty in the margin of the eyelid, and such like intractable conditions of inflammation. Of the mineral acids, as caustic appliances, nitric acid, undiluted, is of great service for converting phagedtenic ulceration into inflammation with healing granulations ; but this is scarcely an appropriate illustration as to the treatment of inflammation itself. Iodine "paint," consisting of equal parts of iodine and of iodide of potassium, to two parts of rectified spirit, and four parts of water, is a strong irritant, of considerable value in removing the effusion and induration attending chronic inflammation generally. Various stimu- lating embrocations also, as camphor and ammonia, with olive oil, are thus used. The actual cautery may be resorted to, with marked benefit, occasionally, in cases of deep-seated and chronic inflammation affecting the joints and bones, and especially the vertebrae. Thus also the burning-moxa was formerly iu some repute. Placed over the spine, and allowed to burn down, it produces a circular slough of skin about the size of a shilling or half-crown. Several moxee were sometimes applied in a row. But the remedial eflicacy of such a powerful counter-irritant measure as even one moxa, is very doubtful; while the severe and continued pain is a decided disadvantage, and more so in virtue of its tendency to aggravate inflammatory fever. This consideration, indeed, restricts the use of the more powerful kinds of counter-irritants. Unlike the pain caused by the clean cut of a knife in most surgical operations, the pain induced by strong cauterization is felt when the influence of chloroform has ceased, ■ although the part itself may be killed outright. It deserves full I trial, observes Mr. Simon, whether every intense, and consequently I pamful, form of counter-irritation might not be superseded by the