807 ULCEBATION OF AKTIOULAR CARTILAGES. stimulating applications have some beneficial influence. Hence, embro- cations, iodine paint, and douclies of sea-water, are now useful. Pressure also—as by a stai-ched bandage, or pressure with, stimulation—by Scott's strapping, may be applied with advantage. Abscess having formed around the joint—in the course of the disease—a free and dependent opening should be made in time to prevent burrowing of the matter. The starched bandage can still be used, with a trap-opening opposite the abscess, for the convenience of dressing and cleanliness. When also ulceration of the articular cartilages has taken place, and the formation of abscess within the joint, anchylosis may be obtained, by continued rest, and position suitable to a useful limb.. Failing this result, timely excision must be had recourse to, before the supervention of hectic and exhaustion, when amputation becomes the only resource. Prof. Billroth and many other German Surgeons look with something like dismay on the consequences of joint-excision, for disease in general; and the clinical picture drawn from their experience of the operation would amply justify the sacrifice of the limb by amputation. After re-section, we hare left a large wound, with two sawn edges of bone, " which will certainly continue to suppurate for weeks, possibly for months; there may be suppuration of the subcutaneous tissue, of the sheaths of the tendons, and suppurative periostitis and necrosis of the sawn edges, things which patients may live through, but which always require time and strength." * The local treatment of scrofulous caries of a joint thus generally resembles that of scrofulous synovitis, in respect to rest and position of the joint, topical applications, and the treatment of abscess. The constitutional treatment of this disease is precisely that of Scrofula. This treatment consists in a course of tonics, especially the preparations of iron and quinine, a nutritious diet, including cod-liver oil, pure air, daily exercise, and sea-bathing. The administration of medicinal tonics should be varied from time to time, and with occasional intermissions. For children, the vinum ferri seems preferable, and after a while the syrup of the iodide of iron may be given in exchange; these and other simple preparations of iron being continued for three or four weeks, and then omitted for a week or ten days. But this course of treatment must be extended over a considerable period, probably two or three years. XJlceeation of Articitlae. Cartilages.—Structwal Condition.—The articular cartilages, when fully developed, and in a healthy state, are destitute of blood-vessels (and nerves). Nutrition is effected—as in the cornea—by imbibition; the nutrient matter being drawn from the blood- vessels of the subjacent bone and vascular fringe of the synovial mem- brane around the circumference of the cartilage. As the result of in- flammation—according to the observations of Sir B. Brodie, Mayo, and Listen—blood-vessels extend into the cartilages from the subjacent bone; just as they form in extravasated lymph. Hence the nutrition of articular cartilages, in this state, depends on a supply of nutritive matter, directly from the vessels, as in other vascular textures. But this question of the vascularity or non-vascularity of cartilage, with regard to the more or less direct supply of blood, has nothing whatever to do with the nutri- * " Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics," p. 471. 4th edit., German. Trans- lated by C. E. Ilacklcy. '