GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 200 from absorption of the animal or albuminous matter of the deposit, and precipitation of the associated mineral constituents. The same change may occur in exudations on serous membranes, forming osseous-like or calcareous plates, as on and in the pericardium, and in parenchymatous organs, forming calcareous concretions. Morbid growths of all kinds are liable, and some are prone, to calcification; fatty tumour, sometimes fibrous, or cystic tumour; cartilaginous tumour, very commonly; cancer, not unfrequently. And in all cases, this degeneration arrests the further progress of growth, and is a natural mode of cure. Regarding Degeneration, of whatever kind, as a process resulting in the transformation of the structural elements of textures and organs, this process may take place in apparently three diJferent ways, repre- senting as many modes of degenerative transformation. This change of textural structure may issue from (1) the deposi- tion of new matter, which directly substitutes the proper structural elements of the texture undergoing degeneration, they having dis- appeared; or (2) degeneration may proceed from cliemical trans- formation of the proper structural elements, or again, from similar transformation of exudation-matter, interstitially deposited. These modes of degeneration are illustrated by fatty degeneration. Pig- mentary degeneration, properly so called, I have restricted to the de- position of pigment-matter from the blood or from the bile. Fibrous degeneration, in its typical form, I have regarded as (3) the evolu- tion of fibrous tissue, by the atrophy and disappearance of another and moi-e essential structural constituent of a compound texture ; as in muscle, the muscular fibres disappearing, this change evolves and exhibits their interstitial connective tissue, which becoming con- densed, readily assumes the character of fibrous tissue. The actual conversion of muscle into fibrous tissue is the received view of fibrous degeneration. Obviously, however, this change cannot be effected by conversion of the muscular fibres,—for they have partially or entirely disappeared ; but it may occur from the more or less complete sub- stitution of interstitial exudation-matter, which assumes the fibrous character. This is the acknowledged mode of amyloid degeneration, and the new matter interstitially deposited seems to be chemically allied to that of fibrous degeneration in having an albuminous nature, while structurally it differs in being granular or structureless. Granular degeneration is also said to take place by the disposition of new matter interstitially ; as another form of albuminous material, which gradually usurps the place and substitutes the structural elements of the original texture, and thus completes this degenerative metamorphosis. I have regarded it as a process of Disintegration of the structural elements, without the deposition of any new matter; and that the granular matter is formed chiefly by the breaking down of textures originally fibrous, or by that of fibrous new formations. Calcareous degeneration is an analogous process; being either a chemical precipitation of saline matters from their associated albuminous matters, or possibly the de- position of new calcareous matter, interstitially, with absorption and disappearance of the albuminous matter. These Transformations—degenerative and disintegrative—of tex- tures, original and adventitious, are represented in the following table :—