691 NECKOSIS. Eree Hospital, (p. 688), it will be observed that a similar partial necrosis bas occurred; a small sequestrum lying within the wall of the up]per por- tion of the Tibia. There is also a very remarkable specimen in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons: a lower jaw, with a very small seques- trum lying within the body of the bone, which at that part is greatly thickened and indurated; externally, the circular mark of a trephine shows that an attempt had been made to reach a sus- pected sequestrum or abscess, which doiibtless had been attended with prolonged suffering during the surrounding ostitis. (3.) Necrosis of the cancellous structure within the shaft of a long bone.—Section of the upper part of a Tibia (Fig. 311), in which portions of the cancellous tissue have suffered necrosis and are partially separated. Lymph and pus are diffused upon and within the dead portions of bone ; the medullary canal con- tains them alone, the rest of its osseous and fatty tissue being removed. The walls of the tibia are thickened and penetrated by several apertures into the meduUary tube. The disease is limited to the shaft of the tibia; its head is healthy. From an old man, in whom the disease had existed more than twenty years. Necrosis loitlwut Suj^imration.—Necrosis is not invariably followed by suppuration. Mr. Stanley drew attention to this fact,t and it has been confirmed by Sir James Paget, who has recorded two examples of what he proposes to term " quiet necrosis." J Mr. Morrant Baker has, however, shown that much more extensive necrosis than that to which the term quiet necrosis is applicable may occur without the formation of pus; and he has recorded a case § in which nearly the whole femur perished, and at the time of the amputation of the limb, about three months after the commencement of the disease, not a drop of pus could be discovered. Mr. Baker supposes that this apparently strange deviation from the ordinary cotirse of cases of necrosis is due to the fact that the death of the bone occurs in the course of chronic ostitis; the shaft of the bone gradually dying as its sources of blood-supply are cut off, partly by inflammatory changes within it, and partly by the formation of new bone in and beneath the periosteum and endosteum. It might be expected, under such circumstances, that suppuration would be long delayed; and he suggests that if there were more frequent opportunities of examining, by section at an early stage, bones affected by chronic ostitis, deep- seated necrosis would be not infrequently found. As it is, however, no need commonly arises for operative interference until the presence of suppuration has removed the necrosis from the list of unexpected occurrences. Mr. Morrant Baker suggests the term intra-osseous for that variety of necrosis in which the dead bone is enclosed by new bone on both its outer and inner aspects; this new bone having been * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 267. t " A Treatise on Diseases of the Bones," 1849, p. 83. X " Trans, of Clinical Society," vol. iii. § " Trans. Medico-Chirurgical Society," 1877.