GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 78 the pus formed cannot pass. Then, again, the same process prepares the way for the discharge of pus, without infiltration of the textures during its passage or escape into any natural cavity through which it may traverse. Any collection of matter having become circumscribed —as an abscess—by the deposition of inflammatory lymph, it is thus also gradually conducted through the surrounding textures at their most yielding point; the pathway having been previously paved securely for this purpose by their adhesion. An abscess is thus advantageously opened by Nature. Absorption makes the channel, and in the direction of least resistance; but adhesion makes its banks secure. With this precaution a collection of matter is safely conveyed from a great depth in the body, and by an otherwise dangerous route. Witness the evacuation of pus from the pleura, in empyema, through a large and pendulous mamma. Adhesions of other serous surfaces favour the escape of matter. When a student, I once saw an abscess of the liver which pointed and threatened to burst externally, but which eventually relieved itself by perforating the diaphragm and right lung successively; a continuous expectoration of pus being provided for by adhesion of the pleura where perforation had taken place. Sometimes, by a similar provision, an. abscess of the liver discharges itself externally, or into the stomach, the duodenum, or the colon. An abscess of the kidney will also thus communicate with the colon; and an abscess in. the right iliac fossa will be emptied into the colon, CEecum, or bladder. (3.) Exudation corimscles are round or irregular little masses, having a dark and mulberry-looking appearance, under the microscope. Their size is about jiho to of mch in diameter. They consist of granules aggregated together, and sometimes enclosed in a cell-membrane; hence they are named also compound granular corpuscles. (Fig. 20.) Within each of these corpuscles is seen a round transparent nucleus, varying in size from 5^ to of an inch in diameter. The granules vary from 10^5 to jjxnnj of an inch. They are fatty. Acetic acid does not afiect the cells or masses ; but they dissolve immediately in ether, and disintegrate under the influence of potash or ammonia. (4.) Piis is a fluid having peculiar physical characters ; an opaque greenish-yellow colour, diffluent or creamy consistence, faint odour, and an average specific gravity of 1030, but varying considerably f roni 1020 to 1040. All the characters of healthy pus differ considerably in the many diseased states of this pi-oduct. This fluid consists of a serum in which are sus- pended an innumerable multitude of corpuscles. (Fig. 21.) They are spherical, somewhat granular- looking cells, from of a line in diameter; and consisting of a cell-membrane, enclosing granular or molecular matter, and a nucleus situated, generally, on the interior of the cell wall and adherent. It varies in size from ^ to * Granular cells and masses from cerebral softening. (Bennett.) t I'us-corpusclcs, as seen in healthy pus; the fine transparent cells are as seen after the action of acetic acid. (Bennett.) Fig. 20.* Fig. 21.t