GOG SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUPvGERY. soventy-fotir days had elapsed when this patient was discharged, it is doubtful whether this might not have proved to be a case of delayed ■union simply. Of 04G cases of recent fracture in the Pennsylvania Hospital, between the years 1830 and 1840, no instance of false union followed the treatment pursued. Sir Stephen Hammick, Listen, and Malgaigne bear testimony also to the infrequency of these accidents in the cases w^hich have come under their care. Hamilton has seen a considerable number of examples of non-union, but in not one of his own cases, whether in Hospital or private practice, has the bone refused finally to unite ; and his opinion is that, in proportion to the total number of fractures which occur, such cases are very rare, perhaps not more than 1 in 500. In my own experience, I may add, 6 cases only have come under my observation or treatment; as compared with many hundreds of fractures, during a period of nearly twenty-five years. Two were fractures of the humerus, at the junction of the middle and upper third; and two were fractures of the femur; one at about the junction of the middle and lower third, and the other at the junction of the middle and upper third. A compound and commi- nuted fracture of the tibia, about the middle of the shaft, was followed by the separation of portions of dead bone and incomplete or cartila- ginous union. Lastly, the case of the forearm figured at p. 603. Treatment.—Tjarliest occasion for interference. — Guided by the natural course and tendency of Ununited Fracture, not until the lapse of 4, 6, or even 8 months, is the Surgeon justified in concluding that union will not take place. During, however, the latter portion of this period, and even befoi'e the expiration of the first-named period, 4 months, he will begin to suspect the wvprobahility of union ensuing; .this improbability increasing according to the lapse of time, without the process of repair supervening, or adequately progressing. Con- sequently, ihe earliest occasion, or period for interference, is some months before the fracture assumes the condition of false-joint. Indications of Treatment.—Taking the structural conditions in the order already mentioned, the indications of treatment have reference primarily to non-union, in each of the two states described. (rt..) With incomplete union, the general indication of local treatment is to encourage, or excite, the process of ossification in the cartila- ginous callus, so as to complete the reparation. The fulfilment of this indication consists in the continued treatment of the case as one of fracture; namely, by the reapplication of retentive apparatus, observ- ing to correct any error in its construction or adjustment, which allowed of undue mobility, obstructed the circulation of blood, or the supply of nervous influence. By thus insuring rest to the part, and the other local conditions that are essential for reparative nutrition, ossification may ensue. Hence, also, any topical application previously in use, which may have reduced the nutritive vitality of the part, must be discontinued. Inflammation, and its consequences, suggest indica- tions of local treatment. Another general indication is to supply, if possible, any defective quality of blood referable to any of the Blood- diseases, which, are severally known to exercise some degree of preju- dicial influence on the ossification of callus. Phosphate of lime has been administered, or lime-water drank, for some weeks, but with little or no effect in promoting ossific deposit. Experience shows that a liberal proportion of animal food, with wine, beer, or spirits, according