600 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Fig. 198.* influence of previous habits. Misled by .1 priori considerations suggested by t^e patbologico-anatomical conditions of compound fracture, clinical observation is precluded; and thus many limbs are probably sacrificed surgically, which otherwise might be saved, if the treatment were determined by watching the actual course and tendency of the case; in other words, by observing the vital career of the particular form of injury, and as subject to the reparative power of the individual. Not one of the con- ditions of compound fracture, alluded to, are found to be invariably fol- lowed by profuse suppuration or gangrene ; not one of the considera- tions commonly urged in surgical works, as to the necessity for primary amputation, are infallible. If, then, exceptional cases are discovered by the advancing study of living con- ditions, in how many more cases might limbs, hitherto sacrificed sur- gically, have been saved, and be preserved in future ? Spreading traumatic gangrene, arising from compound fracture, has the same relation to amputation, as in the case of contused or lacerated wound. The rule of treatment should be : removal of the exciting cause by amputation of the limb, without delay, and at some height above the seat of fracture—no line of demarcation forming in spreading gangrene, to indicate the time and part for amjautatiou. CoMPLrcATED FRACTURES.—These injuries follow naturally in the order of description after compound Fractures, which is a complication relatively to the simple form of this injury. But the complications liere referred to are any additional injury or injuries which may be received simultaneously with Fracture, whether itself simple or com- pound ; and any morbid condition, local or constitutional, which may be * St. Bartholomew's Hospital, C. 79. In the valuable specimen from which the drawing for this figure was taken, the head of the humerus was dislocated ujjwards and backwards upon the dorsum of the scapula,—a rare form of dislo- cation ; but, being imreduccd, the formation of a new joint is even more peculiar. The margin of the head rested, in a hollow, against the inferior surface and the outer edge of the spine of the scapula; while the neck of the humerus moving upon and across the inferior half of the glenoid cavity and the adjoining part of the lower border of the scapula, this part of that bone has become broad and convex, and that of the humerus is deeply grooved for its reception. The surfaces of the bones in the new joint are accurately adapted, and highly polished. A fracture through the middle of the shaft of the humerus is firmly united, but with Bome angular deformitv.