497 ANEURISM OF INTERNAL CAROTID. a Greater tendency to extension of the tumour inwards towards the pharynx, the direction of least resistance. Diagnosis.—Internal carotid aneurism may thus simulate abscess of the tonsil. The marked pulsation of the tumour in its pharyngeal aspect, which can be both seen and felt expanding with each beat into the mouth, will principally determine the diagnosis. Treatment.—Digital pressure on the common carotid should be tried in the first instance. Ligatiore of that artery is the only available operative procedure, subsequently. Its results are uncertain. Intka-ceanial Anettbism.—Symptoms.—Within the cranium, aneu- rismal dilatation of the internal carotid may occur in either of the three parts of its course ; I'ig. 133.* (1) in the carotid canal; (2) in the cavernous sinus ; (3) in relation to the brain. (Fig. 133.) Aneurisms of the other cerebral arteries are conveniently associated with that of the carotid in the latter situation. Of 62 cases noticed by Sir William Gull, the vertebral arteries and their branches were the seat of aneurism in 28, and the carotids and their branches in 34. The basilar artery was affected in 20 cases, and the middle cerebral in 15. In 8 cases, the internal carotid vrithin the cavernous sinus was affected, and in 6 others the anterior cerebral artery. (1.) In the cavernous sinus the symptoms are mainly those of aneurism, of pressure on the orbital nerves, and of disturbance of the cerebral circulation. Thus, arising, probably, from a blow or other injury, the person who is the subject of cavernous carotid aneurism, hears a sharp crack, followed by a sawing or rasping noise, which may also be heard by the stethoscope applied to the head or neck; but this sound ceases when pressure is made on the common carotid of the side affected. No tumour can be discovered externally. Pressure 1 on the orbital nerves is announced, either by internal strabismus from paralysis of the sixth nerve, or by ptosis with external strabismus and dilated pupil from pressure on the third nerve, or by loss of sensation in the parts supplied by the supra-orbital nerve. The sense of vision usually remains unimpaired, or there may be double vision or other defect of sight. These affections of the orbital nerves exist singly or in combination. Cerebral disturbance is evinced by giddiness, head- ache, a sensation of fulness on stooping, and sleeplessness or disturbed sleep. Diagnosis.—Similar symptoms may arise from any occasion of pressure on the artery in the sinus; as by coagula formed in the ophthalmic vein, the cavernous, circular, transverse, and superior petrosal sinuses. Otlierwise the diagnosis of cavernous carotid aneu- rism can be made with tolerable certainty. Intra-orbital aneurism is associated in point of situation and origin; the aneurism springing from the carotid artery, or, in some cases, from the ophthalmic branch. Anastomotic aneurism, or erectile tumour within the orbit, is an independent formation, and occurs more * Univ. Coll. MuB. 287. 2 K