GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. .350 a disL-ase of scrofulous cliaracter; or regarded as chronic meningitis or myelitis, the membranes of the spinal cord, or the cord itself, seeming to be the seat of inflammatory changes, consequent on some con- tusion or wrench of the spinal column. Numerous such cases of apparent spinal disease, as resulting from railway injury, are brought into a court of law for compensation damages. Yet the usual characters of hysteric pain are generally well pronounced; and al- though the symptoms do not supply objective evidence, they may be tested so as to become almost of equal value in determining the judg- ment of an observant and experienced Practitioner as to the nature of the case. The local symptoms taken in conjunction with the general _ symptoms of Hysteria, will mostly lead to a conclusive diagnosis. A spinal case is brought for examination, or the Surgeon is requested to visit the case, the patient being " unable to be moved." On passing the finger down the spine from top to bottom, including the coccyx, with an equal, tapping pressure on each of the spinous processes, an exclamation of pain is uttered, perhaps a shriek of agony, But the pain, thus severe, is not limited usually to one portion of the spine, and notably it is superficial, aggi-avated by light percussion on the skin, rather than by deepei- pressure on the bone. Try the same mode of eliciting pain in the groove on either side of the processes, and the effect will be equally significant;—that pressure so as to reach the vertebral column, or the spinal cord, does not produce pain ; whereas, gentle digitation of the integument is more or less acutely painful. Here, then, is both a positive and a negative fact, in evidence as to the nature of the case; the one fact indicating the presence of hysteric pain, the other fact the absence of any disease of the spine or of the cord,—at least, in most cases. Sometimes the pain is found to be entirely limited to the extent of one or two vertebras,—too localized for any structural disease. And pressure on the tip of the coccyx is often specially painful. Lastly, this fictitioiTS spinal pain is apt to shift its position; from the dorsal to the lumbar region, or up to the neck. In the course of caries, the angular deformity of the spine •—the "hump-back," consequent on the falling down of the bodies of the vertebrae—leaves no doubt as to the distinction between this structural disease and a nervous affection. Spinal hysteria having been thus suspected or discovered, our diag- nosis may be aided by other concurring symptoms. There may be pains in the lower limbs, associated perhaj^s with weakness, or loss of power, amounting to paralysis ; and this paraplegia may be accompanied with difficulty of voiding the urine. Spasmodic affections of the muscles are not uncommonly witnessed. Surely, here is evidence in favour of spinal disease. But, if the case be watched from time to time, these paralytic symptoms are found to vary very much in degree, and may vanish altogether ; quite unlike the progressive and permanent character of paraplegia depending on disease of the spine, or of the cord. The constitutional condition of the patient remains unaffected, or is simply that of an hysteric person ; and is thus unlike the hectic state which ensues from caries, or the cachectic condition consequent on paralysis. On viewing the patient also, our diagnosis may be con- cluded by the consideration that here, perhaps, is a young female, fat and plump; although, possibly, pale and sickly looking, from uterine disorder—not disease—in the form of deficient menstruation.