9 732 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. degree, and one-sided, the jaw being twisted somewhat to the opposite side, though this alteration may be scarcely appreciable. A depression can always be felt in the proper situation of the condyle, and not on the other side. Partial dislocation presents similar signs, but they are still less perceptible, and perhaps recurring, the condyle slipping to and fro. Causes.—Muscular action would seem to be the usual cause, in the act of opening the mouth widely; as in laughing, gaping, violent declamation, yawning, vomiting, convulsion, or an attempt to take too large a bite. The condyles moving forward on the transverse root of the zygoma on either side, are dislocated by the action of the external pterygoid muscles and anterior portion of the masseters, the genio- hyoid and other muscles then depressing the jaw. Consequently, the temporal, internal pterygoid and masseter muscles are placed on the stretch, or even strained. External violence is an occasional cause, as in tooth-extraction, or the forcible introduction of something into the mouth. Sir A. Cooper records such a case; two boys were struggling for an apple, and the one in attempting to thrust it into his own mouth, dislocated his jaw. Age would certainly seem to have some predisposing influence; complete dislocation occurring very rarely in infancy or ad- vanced life, owing probably to peculiarities in the form of the jaw at these pei'iods. Nelaton attributes its greater frequency in middle life to the length and anterior inclination of the coronoid process. Women, also seem more liable than men; and to partial dislocation in particular, which arises probably from relaxation of the ligaments of the jaw. Unreduced dislocation of the jaw nndergoes changes, whereby the jaw becomes approximated to the upper, and its anterior projection is diminished ; some mobility and power of movement also are regained; thus restoring mastication, deglutition, and speech so far, that the person at length experiences no great inconvenience from the displacement. Treatment.—B.eduction is readily accomplished by retracing the dis- placement. The Surgeon, standing in front of his patient, introduces his thumbs—protected by a cloth—into the mouth, and applies them to the lower molar teeth on either side ; depi'essing the angles of the jaw, the chin is raised by the fingers externally at the same time, and the jaw is jerked in or returns with a snap. Chloroform may be administered, when reduction cannot be accomplished without its aid. Dislocation on one side is reduced in like manner; and so also partial dislocation, which may, however, be returned by the natural efforts to open and shut the mouth, the patient being told at the same time to make a lateral motion, or, as suggested by Professor Pirrie, to bring the jaw forward. A four-tailed bandage must then be applied, as in fracture of tlie lower jaw; and the patient fed on liquid food for some days, during reparation of the ligaments. After partial dislocation, the prevention of its recurrence may be aided by tonic treatment, and stimulant appli- cations over the articulation. Reduction has been effected after periods varying from days to several weeks ; after one month and five days, by Sir A. Cooper, in a case of double dislocation; and after ninety-eight days, Donovan succeeded in another case. Congenital Dislocation of the Lower Jaw—denied by Malgaigne, but affirmed by Guerin, R. W. Smith, and Hamilton—is, however, very rare, lu Dr. Smith's complete account of one such case, dissection showed'