GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 124 on aspliyxia, is generally congestive ; and so is inflammation of the liver, as arising from any cause. _ Treatment, both constitutionally and locally, will be that which is suitable for the subacute and chronic varieties of inflammation. But the congestive character of this variety seems to be specially amenable to mercury and antimony, as witnessed in the treatment of hepatitis and pneumonia respectively. At a later period, with a lax state of the vessels in the part affected, the mineral acids are very favourable, as part of the tonic treatment. Erythematic or erysipelatous inflammation contrasts with phlegmo- nous in its tendency to spread, owing to its not being attended with the effusion of plastic lymph. In its severe form, it is accompanied by much redness, pain or smarting, heat and swelling; the effusion is chiefly serous or sero-purulent, and often raises the cuticle in blisters. It may issue in resolution; but in its worst form, it terminates in diffused suppuration, sloughing, or gangrene. The fever is asthenic, or even typhoid, and of an infectious character. Treatment.—Depletion will be sufiiciently accomplished by salines, aperients, diaphoretics, and diuretics, without having recourse to any blood-letting or other active antiphlogistic measures. But this treat- ment must soon give place to stimulants and tonics—ammonia, bark, and particularly iron,—the sesquichloride of iron seeming to be specially beneficial, with a generous diet of wine, brandy, eggs, beef- tea, and other easily assimilated animal food. To prevent the spread of infection; isolation of the patient, free ventilation, cleanliness with regard to dressings, and the use of disinfecting agents, as by chlorine vapour and chlorinated washes, constitute our chief resources. The general plan of treatment, thus indicated, is more fully described in detail under the head of Erysipelas. Diplitlieritic or fellicular inflammation of mucous membranes is somewhat allied to the erysipelatous, being diffused and spreading, genei'ally asthenic, and accompanied with a low kind of fever. But it is attended with more soreness than pain, little swelling, and a deep redness, which is eai-ly obscured by a characteristic film of gx'ayish or dirty-white albuminous matter, exuded on the inflamed surface. Patches of this kind often occur on the tonsils in sore throat, re- sembling sloughs. In scarlatina sometimes, diphtheritic inflammation affects the whole throat, and extends even to the trachea and bronchi, and into the mouth and gullet. The films of lymph effused ai'e often foetid, apparently from incipient decomposition. Treatment should be in no sense depletory or reducing, but similar to that for the erysipelatous variety ; excepting perhaps in the employ- ment of mercury, with the view of controlling the pellicular exudation. Stimulant and astringent applications to the fauces may prove eflacacious: the nitrate of silver, pencilled, or applied in a strong solution, by means of a glass brush; dilute mineral acids, the nitric or hydrochloric, one part to two or three of glycerine; or solutions of alum or sulphate of zinc. A borax gargle, consisting of three or four drachms of borax, with an ounce of honey, to a pint of water, will also be serviceable for cleansing the throat and correcting the foetor of the exudation. Ecemorrlagic inflammation is attended with effusion or extravasa- tion of bloodj in a greater or less degree. It occurs in subjects