432 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. The Qauses of carbuncle are, as to their essential or pathological nature, obscure. It is a disease of advanced years, or it appears in those whose constitution has broken down prematurely. It is also induced by habitual free living, without exercise. It is associated, not unfrequently, with diabetes mellitus or albuminuria; and swellings of a carbuncular character are not uncommon in some infectious diseases, as typhus and typhoid fevers, and plague. Course and Terminations.—Generally, the slough of cellular texture having been thrown off or removed, the cavity, often of considerable size, slowly heals by suppurative granulation ; and the patient's health is ultimately regained, a marked improvement having taken place when the slough was detached. But the brawny induration remains for some time, and a puckered cicatrix permanently. Sometimes, however, the sloughing deepens as well as enlarging superficially; and involving important parts beneath, or overwhelming with prostration, thus proves fatal. A large carbuncle situated on the nape of the neck is especially perilous. Rarely, a carbuncle subsides suddenly, and the person rapidly sinks, death occurring apparently from septicemia. Carbuncle on the face is apt to speedily induce meningitis, attended with delirium, and death results from effusion in three or four days ; a case or two of this kind having happened in Billroth's practice. The prognosis, in different cases, will be guided by the foregoing considerations. Treatment.—Preventive measures are said to be occasionally success- ful. In the earliest stage of the disease, while yet only "a small pointed vesicle on a hard, brawny base," observes Mr. Erichsen, its further progress may often be completely arrested by opening the vesicle and rubbing its interior with a pointed stick of potassa cum calce or nitrate of silver. Later still, he has often seen the extension of a carbuncle prevented, and a cui'e effected, by covering it with a square of soap-plaster spread on thick leather, with a hole in the centre for the exit of discharge. I have had no experience of a carbuncle in this stage, nor of the preventive treatment accordingly. In con- sidering the appropriate curative treatment, the preservation of as much integument as possible, by the limitation of sloughing, with the relief of pain and constitutional disturbance, are primarily im- portant ; and the discharge of slough subsequently is equally so. Early relief of tension fulfils the former indications, an outlet fulfils the latter. Timely, free incisions fulfil both. A crucial incision, carried through the slough and the surrounding induration, as Sir B. Brodie recommended, answers admirably. The period for making this double incision must be determined by due observance of both the purposes in view; always inclining to the consideration of relieving tension. A free application oi potassa fusa, after the bistoury, was advocated by the late Professor Miller, in order to at once form an eschar and thus limit sloughing. Poulticing until the slough is discharged, with the use of carbolic, chlorinated, or other antiseptic solutions, and then dressing according to the state of the ulcer, are the only applications ordinarily required. Suhcutaneous section, as proposed by Mr. French, is another method of treatment, on the same principle; the mass being divided crucially, or in various directions, in order thus to facilitate sloughing and discharge through the openings in the integumeut. A poultice is applied for this purpose. On the