475 ANEURISM. introduced into tlie sac, in opposite directions, nntil tliey toucTi, and fibrine becomes deposited around one of the poles, or needles. The action of the batteiy should be continued for about ten minutes, and repeated sevei'al times. Under this galvanic influence, a soft clot may form -which, partially fills the sac; but acting as a nucleus it may induce the deposition of laminated fibrine, and at length occupy the whole sac. Or, a large but loose clot having formed, in the first instance, it may settle down, and thus the sac become consolidated. Or lastly, the current of electricity excites inflammation of the sac, rather than coagulation of its contents; and this may be followed by coagulation, or by suppu- ration with sloughine: of the sac and its obliteration. These are successful issues. But there are cases, and not a few, of an opposite kind. The clot liquifies, pulsation is re-established, and the disease resumes its course. This relapse, after galvano-puncture, is probably due to the mode of coagulation thereby effected ; the mass of blood setting suddenly into a semi-solid state, instead of consolidating by the gradual deposition of laminated fibrine. Then again, in the event of inflammation supervening, sloughing is mostly accompanied with heemorrhage which may be fatal to the patient's limb or life. Apart from any adverse issue, the pain occasioned by galvano-puncture is always hard to bear, in some cases intolerable; and the administration of chloroform would probably be injudicious. Galvano-puncture is of comparatively recent date. First introduced by Mr. B. Pliillips, in the year 1832, it was subsequently followed up by Listen, G-erard, and Keate; but with so little success that it fell into disuse. A few years later, however, this proceeding was practised by Petrequin and Burci with more success, and thence its revival as an occasional expedient. It is justifiable only, or chiefly, in cases of internal aneurism, or of aneurism at the root of the neck ; in fact, where compression, ligature, or any other method of treatment has failed, or is impracticable. The statistical results hitherto recorded are very unfavourable. According to Bonnet, up to July, 1851, 23 cases of aneurism had been subjected to this treatment; 8 were of the brachial artery, 7 of the popliteal, 2 of the subclavian; 1 of each of the following arteries— ophthalmic, temporal, carotid, thoracic aorta, ulnar; and 1 unknown. Of these, 13 cases were unsuccessful, and although 9 were reported as successful, 7 of them were due rather to compression and the appli- cation of ice, or to inflammation and suppuration of the sac, than to galvano-puncture. It failed, therefore, in no less than 20 cases out of 23 ; leaving only 2 favourable results, excluding the unknown case. Subsequently, out of 50 cases collected by Ciniselli, 23 were cured, 20 were not cured, and 7 were fatal. I have resorted to galvano- puncture in a case of subclavian aneurism, to which I shall again refer ; but the effect produced was slight and only temporary. Mr. Holmes concludes, respecting this method of treatment, that " its use is not so dangerous as to render further trials of it inexpedient," and he antici- pates that it may be so far perfected as to become " a safe and regular plan for th& treatment of thoracic, subclavian, and other forms of aneurism." The injection of coagulating agents has been practised, like galvano- puncture, with the view of inducing coagulation, en masse, within the