SYNOVITIS. 791 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 2, '6. could not be effected. Walking was rendered more tolerable by wear- ing a piece of hollow cork at the bottom of the inner part of the shoe, to prevent the pressure of the metatarsal bones upon the nerves and blood-vessels. Congenital Dislocations oi? the Bones op the Foot.—These In- juries are associated with the various forms of Talipes or Club-foot. CHAPTER XXXVI. DISEASES OP JOINTS. Unlike Diseases of Bone—wherein the osseous texture or bone proper, the periosteum, and the medullary membrane or endosteum, are less separately and distinctly the seat of any particular morbid condition— Diseases of Joints relate to the synovial membrane, the articular ends of bone, and the articular cartilages, not to mention the ligaments, as, severally, the seats of disease; although any such morbid condition, isolated primarily, often spreads to the adjoining structures secondarily. Thus, the component structures of the joints have each an individuality in relation to Disease; and Diseases of the Joints have reference essen- tially to these component structures. This pathologically analytical view of joint-diseases, with regard to their seat and origin in joint- structures, is due to Sir B. Brodie ; Fig. 406.* prior to whose observations, both clinical and pathological, diseases of the joints were confounded under the ambiguous terms, "Arthritis" and " White SweHing." Synovitis.—Inflammation of the Synovial Membrane. — Structural Condition.—An inflamed synovial membrane is more vascular than natural, in the form of crimson spots or diffused redness, and loses its glistening appearance. The synovial secretion is increased in quantity, and thinner or serous. These are the earliest changes. As inflamma- tion proceeds, the membrane ac- quires a pulpy thickening and opacity, by interstitial exudation, and lymph is effused from its inner surface, giving it a granular or villous appearance (Fig. 406), and forming flakes in the synovial fluid, which also accumulates in quantity. Some effusion may even occur in