TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 159 characters; for many other circumstances associated with cancer—its seat, character of the pain, influence of the growth on surrounding parts, the constitutional symptom of cachexia, course, and duration of the growth, and the peculiarities of age, sex, previous diseases of the individual, and hereditary taint—combine to regulate the diagnosis. All these elements will be more conveniently considered in the Vital History of Cancer. Biit the structural individuality of cancer-groivtk, as a distinct kind of growth, is itself uncertain. The supposed characteristic " cancer- cell " is occasionally absent in tumours, otherwise cancerous; and similar cells may be found, and as often—according to Foster—in healthy as in diseased tissues, and are, therefore, not peculiar to cancer. These two propositions, taken together, apparently negative the value of the " cancer-cell," as the most exact ground of identification. Excluding, however, those exceptional forms of growth which simulate cancer in their clinical history, but which do not present the cells of cancer; and excluding also those exceptionally healthy tissues with which similar cells are found; this structural element is the most unequivocal sign of the presence of cancer. In not a few cases, I have thus clearly demonstrated the nature of a cancer-tumour, by puncture with a grooved needle and submitting the material withdrawn to microscopic examination. The three species—encephaloid, scirrhus, and colloid—may possibly co-exist and be combined in the same growth. Of this association I once saw a remarkable example in the post-mortem examination of a patient, who had been under the care of one of my colleagues at the Royal Free Hospital. The abdominal viscera were literally agglomer- ated into an enormous mass of cancer, which consisted of the three cardinal species above mentioned. A beautiful wax model is preserved in the museum of the hospital. Then, again, these species of cancer may succeed each other, as well as co-exist, in the same individual. Yet, with all this fraternization, they never lose their individuality; they never become transformed. Varieties.—Many varieties of cancer have been described, which are worthy of notice, not because they possess any essential importance, but owing to the uncommon appearances they present, at least on examina- tion as pathological specimens, and which may verify the Surgeon's diagnosis, after removal by operation. Like the typical forms of cancer, their varieties also are, in most instances, occasioned by difEerent pro- portionate quantities of their constituent elements—the cancer-cells and fibrous stroma. Some of them, however, are'occasioned by morbid changes of structure; degeneration, and the consequences of inflam- mation. They are all, severally, distinguished and recognized by their physical characters, which have suggested appropriate names. The varieties of Encephaloid are—"mastoid" cancer, so named from its resembling, on section, the boiled udder of the cow. This term was originally proposed by Abernethy. " Solanoid" cancer resembles, on section, a sliced raw potato. It is hard, almost homo- geneous, pale yellow, and crisp ; hence this name, which was first suggested by Recamier. The substance of suchi a mass yields milk- like fluid in abundance, under pressure, and eventually softens. The "milt-Hke" tumour, so named from its general resemblance to the milt of certain fishes. (Monro Tertius.) "Nephroid" cancer exhibits, on