613 FRACTURES OF THE FACIAL BONES. occur if the fracture extends outwards to the lachrymal bone, across the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The nostril is more or less closed by displacement of the fragments inwards. The alveolar process also, a much thicker portion of this bone, is occasionally broken, thus displacing the line of the teeth. The malar eminence, externally, may participate in fracture of the malar bone with which it articulates ; and the antrum of Highmore is, sometimes, crushed. Direct violence only can occasion these severe injuries. Gunshot wound, or the handle of a crane revolving and striking the face, thus produces fi'acture; involving, possibly, all the bones of the face in one common smash, or disjunction, with pulpifaction of the integuments. The face " feels like beans in a bag." I have seen two such facial bags; the one resulting from machinery, the other from the compression of a cart wheel passing over the face. Treatment.—The contusion, which accompanies fracture of any por- tion of the upper jaw, always requires the application of cold lotions or the usual means to subdue inflammatory swelling. Adjustment of the fragments must be accomplished by proper manipulation within the mouth, and retained by any suitable contrivance. ISTone of the fragments should ever be removed, this con- servative principle in the treatment being strongly urged by Malgaigne, Larrey, and other Surgeons, as union will be found to take place very readily. (6.) Fracture of the Lower Jaw. —Stractural Conditions.—This bone may be broken in any part; the hody, and particularly hetioeen the symphysis and insertion of the masseter muscle (Fig. 204) ; rarely at the symphysis, in the rami, or the processes. Commonly, fracture is limited to one side of the bone. Its direction may be trans- verse, or obHque ; and in the latter form of fracture, the pointed end of the anterior poi'tion is apt to pierce the mucous membrane of the mouth, or to be tilted upwards by the depressing action of the genio-hyoid muscles ; thus, in either way, rendering the fracture compoimd. This condition of fracture in the lower jaw has, I believe, been questioned; but I distinctly found it in one instance of fracture of the body on the left side, which had become compound, in the course of a few days, by the tilting effect of the depressor muscles; the nature of the injury having been overlooked and no retentive apparatus applied. The Signs are some unevenness along the base of the jaw, and irre- gularity of the teeth, with mobility and crepitus when the parts are handled. The patient even experiences a harsh grating sound, con- veyed through the temporal bone, as well as pain, on moving the jaw. The anterior portion is drawn downwards by the genio-hyoid muscles, and particularly if the fracture be in front of, and therefore un- resisted by, the masseter muscle. Fracture on either side of the symphysis allows the middle, intervening portion of bone to be drawn more downwards. In any case there is also a dribbling of the saliva; which, at first, has a bloody tinge, from laceration of the gums, especially if the fracture be compound. Fracture of the processes is * St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 38.