822 SPECIAL TATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tliere may be an enlargement of the bursa over the great trochanter; tlio painful swelling, in this case, being more plainly defined, and limited to the trochanter. Periostitis or ostitis of the great trochanter resem- bles disease of the hip-joint; excepting in the more superficial seat of pain, and which is not aggravated by any movement of the joint itself, or by V?eight-bearing pressure, or by concussion upwards from the solo of the foot, nor is there any sympathetic pain on the inner side of the knee. No shortening of the limb results, as in a more advanced stage of hip-joint disease. Trochanteric disease co-existing with that of the joint no longer offers any ground for diagnosis; and, practically, no distinction is necessary. Treatment.—The directions given with reference to scrofulous disease of the joints generally are here applicable, rendering any repe- tition of detail unnecessary. Absolute rest of the joint must be secured, and a position favourable to the future use of the limb, in the event of anchylosis. A splint moulded to the hip and extending below tlie knee, with the limb straightened, may answer this twofold purjjose. In the second stage of disease, the long, straight, extending splint may be applied with more advantage; thus to counteract muscular spasm and pain coincident with ulceration of the cartilages in contact, and tlie liability to dislocation as the disease advances. But simple weight- extension from the foot is the mode of treatment I now generally prefer; and the successful results thus obtained are undeniable. A very useful splint has been devised by Mr. Thomas, of Liverpool. It consists of a metallic bar-support, extending underneath the limb, from about the middle of the calf to the middle of the back, the leg and thigh portion being straight, while the upper portion is bent to the form of the buttock and loins. (Fig. 437.) This is fastened by straps across the thorax, and further secured by a shoulder strap. When the limb is first placed in this ssplint, it may be allowed to remain bent, as Fig. 437. from disease of the hip-joint; but gradually it yields to moderately tight bandaging from below upwards, and subsides into a straight position. This splint possesses at least two advantages: it prevents any movement of the thigh upon the pelvis, and thus fixes the joint; and the whole trunk and limb form one piece, so that the patient can even be raised from the bed, without any disturbance of the joint. Both these conditions are very desirable, especially in young patients, and who are more frequently the subjects of hip-joint disease. _ In the case I have rcjiresented, a girl, who was thus treated by me m the Royal Free Hospital, experienced great relief from pain, after the ordinary long, straight, external thigh-splint had been used for some time. Sub- sequently, however, the disease advanced to the formation of abscess.