FRACTURES OF THE FOREARM. 6^5 Fig. 231. varying from a line to an incli or more. Bony union may form when tlie olecranon is in perfect apposition; yet not always, even in such cases. Treatment.—The displacement is reduced by a completely extended position of the forearm; and maintained by means of a splint applied in front of the elbow-joint, passing some distance along the arm and forearm. (Fig. 231.) This posi- tion of complete extension has been employed by a large majority of English and American Surgeons, ever since Sir Astley Cooper urged its most obvious advantages. A slightly flexed position was advocated by Boyer and Desault, and is still preferred by most French Surgeons; chiefly on the ground that this attitude of the arm will be most convenient in the event of anchylosis. But the rarity of permanent anchylosis after simple fracture, properly treated, whether by the flexed or straight position, overrules this consideration; and the loss of power almost inevitably consequent on the length of ligamentous union in flexure of the joint, is a result of more serious consideration. (2.) Fracture of the Coronoid Process.—Only nine cases are on record—according to Hamilton—in which the symptoms were, apparently, referable to fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna ; and not one of these cases was established by dissection, actually demonstrating the existence of fracture, opportunity not having permitted of this conclusive evidence. Only four specimens—according to the same authority—are known, illusti'ative, apparently, of this injury; and these are of doubtful character. Fracture of the coronoid process has, generally, been supposed to- co-exist with dislocation of the ulna, or of both bones of the f orearm^ backwards ; yet there are only two examples in which I have found this fracture in connection with such dislocation of the ulna and radius. (Fig. 232.) Signs.—The signs of an injury, the pathology of which is thus obscure, must necessarily be little known with certainty. As associated with disloca- tion, the signs of that form of injury will be present; and, probably, more prominently than those of fracture. Re-dislocation is apt to take place, when extension of the forearm is discontinued; and this sign has been regarded as diagnostic. It may be so, perhaps, in fracture of the coronoid process with dis- location of the ulna alone. Pertaining to fracture, there will be some displacement of the coronoid process upwards by the action of the bi-achialis anticus, if the fracture be situated at the base of the process, or beyond the insertion of this muscle. * St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 111. A precisely similar form of injury exists in 1, 112, which occurred in the same person, a man aged 20, who fell from a height on both elbows. Another very remarkable and perhaps uiii(]ue fracture co-e.xists with the coronoid fracture iu bulk the specimens—a fracture, lou^iLudiuaUv through the head of tlie nidius. ' o j r Fig. 232.*