GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 278 cury. But these preparations are apt to produce irritation of the gastro-intestinal canal, and the liver, by their continued use—occa- sioning bilious diarrhoea and sickness, long before their beneficial operation on the system can take place. Their introduction is, in fact, thus intercepted, and the mercury is said to "run off by the bowels." A small proportion of opium—say, a quarter of a grain—combined with each pill, will tend to make the blue pill or calomel settle on the stomacli. The iodide of mercury, combined with opium in the form of a pill, is the preparation which I have long been in the habit of pre- scribing. It is less irritating to the stomach, and equally remedial. The l^q^lor hydrargyri hichloridi, in half-drachm doses, more or less, is a convenient form of administering mercury internally; but I use it rather to sustain the systemic influence of the iodide. Mercurial inunction supplies a more sure metbod of affecting the system, without any collateral disturbance of the digestive organs. It consists in rubbing in a small quantity of some mercurial ointment ou the inner or thin-skinned aspect of the thighs, every night. A drachm of the blue ointment, unguentum hydrargyri, may be thus continued nightly, until the gums are touched, and the secondary symptoms evi- dently subsiding. The ointment must be rubbed in until it disappears, and then the greasy surface should be left unwashed. This, however, is a laborious and dirty ordeal, an additional penalty for any one to pay besides having syphilis. Mercurial fumigation may be preferable as a more cleanly and equally efficacious mode of introducing mercury through the skin. It consists in exposing the surface of the body, enveloped in a blanket up to the chin, to the fumes of some mercurial powder, which is heated until it rises in the form of vapour, and which can be advantageously associated with steam, as a vapour bath. For this purpose, an appa- ratus has been contrived by Messrs. vSavigny. A more ready con- trivance is a half brick, heated to a dull redness, on which the powder is placed, and set in a pan containing a little water. Calomel is the mercurial preparation generally employed; and fifteen or twenty grains, the quantity usually sufficient, will undergo volatilization, entirely, in fifteen or twenty minutes. The patient is then put to bed, so that the particles of calomel shall not be wiped off the surface of the body. This mode of introducing mercury is highly recommended by Mr. Lee, who observes that, in his experience, neither of the other modes removes the symptoms so readily as calomel fumigation; none is attended by so little mischief to the patient's constitution; and none is followed so seldom by a relapse. He extends it, as I have already mentioned, to the local treatment of primary sores; and by means of a tube and mouth-piece, the vapour of calomel can be conveyed to the throat, for the treatment of secondary syphilitic ulceration affecting that part. Mercurial inlialation can be administered by a simple and efficient form of inhaler, which is easily constructed; a common earthen teapot, to the spout of which is attached a tube of vulcanized india-rubber, about a foot long, and provided with a bone mouth-piece, in shape like the amber of a meerschaum pipe. A scruple of calomel is placed in the teapot, and the little hole in the lid which allows the escape of steam is stopped with a peg of tightly rolled paper,—better than wood, which yields and loosens in driving it in. The pot thus equipped