777 DISLOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. * St. Bartholomew's Uosp. Mus., 3, 111. aud usually tliey are double. The causation of hip-joint dislocation, before birth, was attributed by Dupuytren to defective organization, and by Guei'in and Carnoclian to spasmodic muscular retraction ; but it would appear that such dislocation is generally produced mechanic- ally, taking place at birth, and in breech-presentation, by the traction- force applied to the thighs of the child in delivery. When arising from defective development, the joint consists of a stunted, small femoral head, and a misshapen, shallow acetabulum, provided perhaps with complete articular cartilages; but the round ligament is long, or wanting, and the capsule very large, loose, and incomplete. Con- genital dislocation of the hip-joint, commonly on the dorsum ilii, is apt to be overlooked at birth, and may not be discovered until the child begins to walk, when the peculiar loose gait attracts attention. The displacement can even then be readily reduced, but it as easily returns. The movements are painless. Subcutaneous section of the trochanteric muscles overcame this difficulty in a case on which Mr. Brodhui'st operated. But when the joint is imperfectly develoioed, the cure of congenital dislocation must be impossible. In fact, there is simply an incurable lameness. Yet, practically, it is highly important that this state should not be misunderstood, when met with either in childhood or in after life. Dislocations of the Patella are liable to occur in four directions : (1) outwards more commonly, or (2) inwards; (8) vertically, the patella turning edgewise on its axis; or lastly, (4) upwards. Both the latter forms of dislo- cation are vei*y rare. (1 and 2.) Dislocation laterally, outwards or imvards. The structural conditions in these two forms of Dislocation are analogous; the patella is displaced more or less completely in cither direction, and rests on the outer side of the external condyle (Fig. 392), or the inner side of the internal condyle, of the femur. Signs.—An unnatural swelling—the pro- jection of the patella—can be seen and felt over the outer or inner condyle, with an un- natural depression in front of the knee, owing to the absence of the bone from its proper situation. The knee is much broader than usual, slightly bent, and immovable; considerable pain also is experienced, especially aggravated by any attempt to bend the joint. Causes.—Muscular contraction of the quadriceps extensor would seem to be the usual cause of these dislocations. The outtvard displacement is particularly liable to occur in persons who are knock-kneed, or whose external condyles have not the usual degree of prominence anteriorly. Dislocation of the patella in this direction may sometimes be produced ■voluntarily. A dancing girl, who, from her earliest years, had habitually twisted herself into various attitudes, eventually became knock-kneed ; and when the rectus muscle acted upon the patella, it was thrown nearly flat upon the side of the external condyle of the femur. Sir A. Cooper— who relates this case—also found the dislocation reproduced in another instance whenever the limb was extended, displacement arising from