SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 710 vessels, a vascular twmour, and not a vascular growth or enlarged con- geries of vessels. The bony case, however, which encloses any such tumour renders this test inapplicable, until the bone yields and the mass protrudes on the surface of the bone. Or compression of a main artery may be impracticable, ovsdng to the situation of the tumour, as in the pelvic bones. Or again, the supply of blood may come from so many arterial branches, that it cannot be arrested by compression. A tumour pulsating in connection with an artery is also distinguished in like manner. Subsequently, the nature of the tumour will be still further declared by its more developed characters; encephaloid cancer, for example, enlarges rapidly, and involves the skin and lymphatic glands. Treatment.—Having due regard to the almost exclusive cancerous nature of pulsating tumour of bone, excision must have the same re- stricted applicability as with regard to cancer of bone in general. This operation has failed in cases of cranial and scapular pulsating tumours. Amputation is the only justifiable operation of removal, in other than the few exceptional cases alluded to. The more decidedly en- cephaloid the disease, the more appropriate will be this more sweeping operation. It should be performed as soon as the nature of the disease is declared, and the line of amputation be chosen above the joint nearest to the bone affected. Ligature of the main a/rtery leading to the part is said to have proved successful in some cases ; but probably not in pulsating tumour of bone having an encephaloid character. Compression might be tried previous to ligature. Diseases of Particular Bones.—Cranial Bones.—Caries and Ne- crosis of these bones are liable to occur, as one of the local manifesta- tions of Scrofula or of Syphilis. Commonly affecting the arch of the skull, and particularly the frontal bone, the ethmoid and sphenoid bones do not escape. The temporal bone seems specially prone to scrofulous caries. The structural condition and signs are both described under the general pathology of Caries as affecting the surface of Bone, and of Scrofulous and Syphilitic Ostitis, and exfoliation. The causes, most frequently constitutional, are sometimes traumatic ; as exfoliation resulting from a contused wound of the scalp, or other injuries of the head. The course of either state of disease is important with reference to the probability of cerebral complications ; meniugitis with effusion, convulsions and coma, being apt to supervene and terminate fatally. Caries of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, as a form of Scro- fulous disease, is more particularly dangerous. Earache with chronic suppuration leads to perforation of the tympanum; the ossicula disease. Post-mortem examination disclosed further particulars. A very large mass of "malignant disease" was found connected with both surfaces of the iliac bone, and section on the dorsal aspect showed a cavernous structure. The arteries communicating with these large spaces accounted for the pulsatile character of the tumour. Both the ilium and sacrum were extensively eroded, the sacro-iliac joint destroyed, and spicula of bone were found scattered about the substance of the growth. The two portions of this mass, on the opposite sides of the iliac bone, were continuous through the substance of the bone, and around the sacro-sciatic notch. In the course of the disease, the internal iliac and other veins had become infil- trated with malignant deposits, which had also taken place in the left kidney.