■SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. G48 thus to relax the muscles whicli act upon the hip-joint, in order to relieve the pain in the hip; it may, therefore, indicate simply a sprain of the joint; or it may result from hip-joint disease, former fracture of the thigh or leg, malformation, or arrest of development. Any obliquity of the pelvis will also affect the comparative length of the two limbs. To determine whether shortening be apparent or real, the patient should be laid upon his back, with the pelvis even on either side; then the relative length of the limb can be estimated by observing whether the soles of the feet are in the same plane; but measurement with an inextensible, graduated tape will afPord the only exact and conclusive evidence—observing to draw the tape between two fixed points, the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and the lower margin of the inner malleolus of the ankle, thus to find the actual length of the limb, as compared with the other side. Possibly, no shortening may take place at first, no displace- ment having occurred, and this state may continue for a period of some hours, or even for days; on the other hand, considerable shortening may soon be induced by a rough examination of the limb. Eversion is produced, partly by the action of the external rotator muscles inserted into the great trochanter, and partly or principally as the natural position into which the lower limb falls when left to itself. Inversion sometimes occurs, but very rarely; and is owing, probably, to the action of the adductor muscles, aided by some partial rent of the capsular ligament favouring such muscular action. Thus, if the inner side of the capsule remain entire, this, it has been supposed, would facilitate inversion; but it seems to me that a rent of the inner side of this ligament would be more conducive to inward rotation of the femur. Dissection in cases of inversion is wanted to establish either opinion. An unusual position of the lower fragment, in front of the upper one, is the explanation urged by Dr. R. W. Smith. Neither aversion nor inversion of the foot may be present, according to Hamilton, in some cases; the toes pointing directly forwards. Impacted fracture is denoted by an absence or minor degree of all the signs, except shortening. Some degree of shortening of the lower limb, which cannot be extended to its original length ; un- acompanied by the other signs of fracture—or dislocation—and im- mediately consequent on some occasion of injury, is diagnostic of fracture, with impaction of the fragments,—an impacted fracture. A well-marked case of this kind, which was under my care in the Hospital, is reported in the " Medical Times and Gazette," 1866; and subsequently, I brought forward other cases at the Harveian Society. Eversion, or occasionally inversion, with impacted fracture, may be produced, partly by the causes already mentioned, but specially, perhaps, by the direction and extent of the impaction, giving a turn to the limb one way or the other. Causes.—Indirect violence, but of so slight a character, in many cases, as scarcely to exceed a stumble, will, generally, be found the only external cause to which intra-capsular fracture of the neck of the femur can be referred. A slight trip of the foot, slip, or mis-step in going down stairs, are the usual occasions of this fracture. But arje very much predisposes to the injury. It seldom happens in persons under fifty; and the predisposing condition consists of an alteration in the structure, and consequent direction of the neck of the femu/,