799 SCROFtJLOUS SYNOVITIS. shape of tlie articular surfaces, predispose to partial dislocations and contractions of the limbs; leaving the patient stiffened and crippled in his movements, and ultimately reduce him to a helpless condition. Loose cartilages, moreover, are apt to form in the joints. Suppuration rarely, if ever, occurs; the disease—apai't from any temporary effu- sion of fluid—is essentially a dry disease of the joints. Anchylosis also is a rare event; although the increasing articular rigidity, and wasting of the disused muscles, have an equivalent result. At last, the general health declines, and the patient becomes emaciated to a shadow. Treatment.—Preventive measures, in the early stage of this disease, may succeed in averting its destructive consequences ; but any cura- tive measures for the removal of the osseous deposits or out-growths, and restoration of the disorganized state of the joints—in respect to ligaments, synovial membrane and cartilages—will have scarcely any avail. Local treatment—in the early stage—is that of synovitis. Rest of the joint, and slight topical depletion by a few leeches, may now prove efficacious. Bat, as the symptoms of inflammation subside, leaving some structural results—in thickening of the synovial mem- brane and effusion within the joint—counter-irritation, by means of blisters or iodine paint, will become advantageous. Stimulant em- brocations and friction, as by shampooing or local douches, and motion, may then succeed in recovering the use of the joints. The constitiotional treatment should be that of rheumatism. In the early stage, bicar- bonate of potash, in large doses, with wine of colchicum, may arrest the progress of the disease. Subsequently, iodide of potassium and guaiacum seem to have more controlling influence. Free action of the skin must be promoted by warm clothing and sudorific medicines, as Dover's powder and hot-air baths ; while a rigorous attention to diet will be indispensable when the disease has a gouty character, with dyspeptic symptoms, denoting a constitutional origin of that kind. Nor should hydropathic treatment be disdained, when properly conducted. Mineral waters, coupled with a due observance of dietetic precautions, sometimes prove singularly beneficial in rendering joints supple and restoring the general health, at least for a time. The waters of Bath or Buxton in this country, Vichy, Wiesbaden, Carlsbad, Ems or Aix- la-Chapelle on the Continent, are thus hopeful resorts for the victims of chronic rheumatic synovitis; and such patients should, if possible, winter abroad, out of the cold, damp, and variable atmosphere of this country, in the genial cUmate of Nice and other parts of Italy, or the south of Trance. Scrofulous Synovitis.—Structural Condition.—A pulpy or gela- tinous degeneration of the synovial membrane, resulting from inflamma- tion of a chronic character, modified by a scrofulous constitutional condition. The synovial membrane, in this state, is thickened and converted into a soft yellowish or light-brown gelatinous material; more vascular also than the healthy membrane. This change may be partial in its extent, affecting only the membrane reflected over the ligaments, or over the cartilages. Sir B. Brodie, who first described this disease, relates such cases as shown by dissection. The articular cavity be- comes diminished as the pulpy thickening of the membrane encroaches on the joint; and this taking place most freely in the loose synovial