701 TUMOURS OP BONE. matter, wliicli was shown by Mr. Solly to be pbospliate of lime, removed from the bones and eliminated through the kidneys. But the urine may also contain a peculiar substance, nearly allied to albumen, and in great abundance. According to the analysis of Dx'. Beuce Jones, in Mr. Dalrymple's case, this substance is the hydrated deutoxide of albumen, and 66'97 parts were passing out of the body in every 1000 parts of urine. Here, therefore, there was as much of this albuminoxis substance in the urine, as there is of ordinary albumen in healthy blood; an ounce of urine passed was eqiiivalent to an ounce of blood lost, as regards its albumen. " The peculiar characteristic of this hydrated deutoxide of albumen was its solubility in boiling water, and the precipitate with nitric acid being dissolved by heat and reformed when cold. By this reaction a similar substance in small quantity may be detected in pus, and in the secretion from the vesiculse seminales. The reddening of the urine on the addition of nitric acid might perhaps lead to the re-discovery of this substance; when found, the presence of chlorine in the urine, of which there was a suspicion in the above case, should be a special subject of investigation, as it may lead not only to the explanation of the formation of the albuminous substance, but to the comprehension of the nature of the disease which affects the bones." Causes.—The pathological cause of mollities ossium is unknown. But the disease in no way arises from an imperfect formation of the osseous texture, and does not generally occur before the middle period of life, or subsequently; thus, also, differing from rickets. It would appear to be hereditary, in some cases. Females are more subject than males, and repeated pregnancy seems to engender a predisposing condition. Termination.—The fractured bones evince little or no tendency to the formation of callus; and as the deformity resulting from their bending increases, the patient becomes a wretched crip^sle, yet living perhaps for years. Ultimately, death ensues from sheer exhaustion; or functional disturbance, consequent on altered relations of the viscera or pressure from deformity, proves fatal. Treatment.—^No known medicinal agents have any curative efficacy. A generally tonic and nourishing plan of treatment may somewhat reheve the concomitant exhaustion of mollities ossium, and opiates : alleviate the wearing pains. Posture and mechanical contrivances : are also of some use in counteracting the progressive deformity, and rendering life more tolerable to the patienb, when bedridden. Pragilitas Ossium.—Brittleness of the bones is, pathologically, ■ the opposite condition to Rickets; implying a superabundance of 1 earthy matter in their composition. The only sjoecimen with which I am acquainted, is an upper end of the Femur in the Museum of ; St, George's Hospital. Occurring as a natural change in the bones as life advances, it may ; also, at other peiiods, be symptomatic of cancer, syphilis, scurvy ; and, ] probably, of other diseases of, or affecting, the osseous system. TuMOUES OF Bone, Exostosis.—Strxociural Conditions.—Exostosis is an out-growth of ' bone; its texture therefore resembles either the compact or the cancel- ! lated structure of bone.