SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 478 only that the force of the circulation through the aneurism can thus be sufficiently retarded. But if the aneurism be, or become, of large size, although circumscribed, the force of the current preponderates over the arterial resistance, and the balance cannot be sufficiently- restored by a ligature at any part of the artery, on its cardiac side alone. The treatment accordingly is again restricted to double ligature ■—one on either side of the bleeding aperture—by the operation already described; the old operation of Antyllus, as for diffused traumatic aneurism. The treatment of traumatic aneurism unaccompanied by an ex- ternal wound, will be considered in connection with Complicated Fracture and Dislocation, respectively. Aneurismal Varix and Varicose Aneurism.—Structural Conditions. —An opening between an artery and a vein, in contact, whereby a direct communication of the two vessels is established, constitutes Aneurismal Vai'ix. (Fig. 120.) Through this opening, the current of arterial blood, being the more forcible, passes, in part at least, into the opposing current of venous blood. Under favourable circumstances— to be presently explained—an indirect communication is established, by the formation of an intervening circumscribed false aneurism ; this condition constituting Varicose Aneurism. (Fig. 121.) It is so named from the varicose condition of the vein, with which the artery thence communicates. But the vein is varicose also in Aneurismal Varix. Fig. 120.* Signs.—The same signs accompany either of these lesions, and they are very significant. Take, for example, a communication of the brachial artery and median basilic vein, occasioned by unskilful vene- section ; whereby both these vessels are punctured, as they cross at the bend of the elbow. The superficial aperture in the vein and skin may soon be healed, but the deeper aperture in the vein and that in the artery remain open. The current of arterial blood, being partly diverted from its course, is less forcible below the seat of injury, reducing the pulsation at the wrist to a feeble thread; and as the ♦ From Listen. t From Listou.