479 ANEURISMAL VARIX AND VARICOSE ANEURISM. jetting stream passes throngli tlie median basilic vein into the veins of the forearm and arm, they become distended and tortuous, or varicose; The median vein, more especially, assumes an eel-like appearance down the forearm; while the median basilic and median cephalic, the radial and ulnar veins, with the basilic and cephalic veins at the bend of the elbow, also exhibit in various degrees the force of the arterial current; they all become enlarged and varicose. Aneurismal Varis simply, is formed as the result of the puncture of both vein and artery; or, the jet of arterial blood passing into the vein, may burrow for itself a cavity in the intervening cellular tissue ; forming a circum- scribed false aneurism, as the medium of an indirect communication between the two vessels, and constituting Varicose Aneurism. In either condition, the varicose state of the neighbouring veins con- nected therewith, is the earliest and most characteristic appeai-ance. The aneurismal swelling is wholly, or partly, formed, as the case may be, of enlai'ged and tortuous veins. And these veins, with or without the circumscribed aneurism, pulsate in unison mth the arterial 23ulse; their pulsation being distinctly visible, perceptible also as a tremulous thrill, and audible as a soft, burring sound. Moreover, the whole swelhng can be emptied by pressure upwards in the course of the veins, or it subsides and regains its former dimensions, when pressure is made on the artery. An elevated position of the limb will have the same effect. In the event of a circumscribed aneurism having formed, between the aperture in the artery and that in the vein, this portion of the swelling is at first soft and compressible, but it acquires a firmer and less elastic consistence, by the gradual deposition and consolidation of fibrine within the sac. If allowed to progressively enlarge, the skin shows the tint of venous obstruction, by assuming a livid hue; while the whole limb, downwards from the seat of injury, becomes swollen, oedematous, feeble, numb, and cold, even threatening gangrene. Causes.—The communication between an artery and a vein is com- monly of traumatic origin ; as that produced by puncture in unskilful venesection at the bend of the elbow, or a lesion from the thrust of a sharp instrument, or a ball in gunshot wound, passing, between an adjoining artery and vein. But an opening may result from a diseased condition of the vessels, the lesion having an idiopathic origin; as in the bursting of an ordinary aneurism occasionally into a neighbouring vein. The determining cause of Aneurismal Varix simply, or the formation of Varicose Aneurism, has reference to the anatomical re- lation of the artery and vein. Whenever the two vessels are in contact, a direct communication may be produced—giving rise to Aneurismal Varix; whenever the vessels are not in contact or in apposition, an indirect communication is established, by the formation of an inter- vening circumscribed false aneurism—constituting Varicose Aneurism. The latter is an additional condition. Aneurismal varix, or, perchance, plus the intervening aneurism, may be produced in various parts of the body; wherever a direct, or an indii'ect, communication can be established between an artery and vein of tolerable size. Therefore, with respect to the thigh, the ham, the neck, the arm, and in other situations, there are cases recorded. But the bend of the elbow, as already described, is the more common seat of these lesions, or it was so in the days of venesection.