GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 150 Fig. 51. trunks proceeding, respectively, to and from the mass ; but either order of vessels may predominate, and constitute nearly the whole mass apart from the connective tissue. Thus then there are the capillary the venous, and the arterial varieties of vascular tumour. The first consists almost entirely of capillaries—dilated, tortuous and convoluted, as in "noevus matemus" or "mother's mark" also known as Telangeiectasis. The second is formed almost entirely of enlarged veins, or venous sinuses, embedded in a firm, fibrous network, —constituting a cavernous and erectile structure. This variety of vascular tumour was that which John Bell specially described, and to which he gave the name of " aneurism by anastomosis," or " aneurism by the dilatation of anastomosing vessels." The third variety consists almost en- tirely of arteries—enlarged, elongated, tortuous, and perhaps convoluted, and (■^(^ V ^ y-ai» II \ ¥1 """^^"^^ freely communicate. This is \^^^^jm. iM ■^^^ called " aneurism by anastomosis. Vamjl''fj^Wrlff y (Fig. 51.) If the larger vessels are involved, it has received the name of " cirsoid aneurism." These varieties of structual condition are accompanied with con-esponding peculiarities of physical characters, by which their diagnosis can be determined. A vascular tumour is soft and compressible, but regains its former size when the congeries of vessels is left free to fill again,—the tumour is erectile. Its sabstauce some- what resembles a sponge; and if visible, as when subcutaneous or in the skin, the colour of this distended sponge plainly shows that it is full of blood, arterial or venous. The cajjillary and venous varieties are alike characterized by their circumscribed shape and soft doughy consistence, which can be moulded under the fingers ; but at the same time a trembling sensation or indistinct throbbing is felt, if the mass for the most part be venous, and have attained some size. After compression, the tumour sloivly re-distends, and assumes increas- ing size and tension during exertion, especially if sudden and violent, as in running, coughing, straining, struggling ; and by any obstruction to the free return of venous blood. A bluish tint is laerceptible when the tumour is situated superficially. Lastly, if wounded, the mass collapses. The arterial variety is chiefl.y distinguished by its strong pulsations, and threatening distension, increasing also under any occasional excitement of the heart's action, and with the flow of arterial blood. Situation.—This species of tumour may be deep-seated ; in muscles, in bone, the stomach, spleen, liver, kidney, supra-renal capsules, the uterus, in the brain, orbit, parotid gland, the tongue, and indeed wherever capillary blood-vessels naturally exist and most abound. The diffused form is more frequently situated superficially, as beneath the skin, and probably involving it; constituting the common cutaneous n^vus, as seen on the scalp or the face. Origin.—The vascular tumour is not unfrequently a congenital growth; it may be a subsequent formation, but more frequently in