343 DELIRIUM TREMENS. presenting tlie well-known appearance of " wet-brain." Thus, the cerebral substance feels like wet putty in consistence, and slips about under the finger. There is perhaps no other more constant and peculiar organic condition, consequent on delirium tremens,—at least, when fatal—than this serous effusion on, and within, the brain. It may be accompanied with a congested state of the cerebral blood-vessels. ■ But this additional pathological condition is found also after death from poisoning by opium, and as a constant result; yet which may be un- attended with serosity of the brain. So far, there would appear to be a tolerably definite differential state of the brain in connection with delirium tremens. This pathological distinction, and thence the evidence derived from post-mortem examination, would be more reliable, were it possible to determine how far the cerebral congestion, as an occa- sional condition, may be due to treatment by alcoholic stimulation; the violent exertion of the patient, coupled perhaps with the effect of restraint, contributing also to the same result in delirium tremens. Probably, both the effusion and the congestion, when present, may have co-operated as the cause of death in this disease, from coma. On the other hand, examination after death demonstrates even more clearly the distinction between delirium tremens and inflammation, whether as affecting the membranes or the substance of the brain,—in the form of meningitis or encephalitis; the effusion in either such disease, having the character of lymph or purulent fluid, differs thus notably from simple serosity of the brain. The causes of delirium tremens may be further considered with relation to its treatment. The intemperate imbibition of alcoholic stimulants, in some form or other, is undoubtedly the cause of this disease ; and prolonged over-stimulation, or the habit of intemperance, is equally necessary to induce, or to predispose to, an attack. But the quantity of stimulant drank continually, varies much in different cases; a comparatively moderate quantity proving suflB.cient in some persons, who are naturally predisposed to the disease; a complete saturation being requisite in other persons. Yet, in either case, time, and thence habitual intemperance, is the essential factor in the production of delirium tremens. An attack of this disease is not the work of a day's debauch in a person previously temperate; but the product of continued alcoholism. Intoxication may, however, beget an attack of delirium in a person addicted to drinking; or, far less frequently, an attack arises, when such a person is suddenly de- prived of his accustomed stimulation. This form of the disease, delirkm ehriosum, differs ; partly in the character of such an attack; prmcipally, in the immediate cause, and the antecedent condition. But^ when a man of intemperate habits becomes sleepless and agitated, he is pretty surely on the verge of true deUrium tremens. There are many persons who live constantly in this half-and-half state of the disease,—in chronic alcoholism. Something more is required to aetermme an attack. Various circumstances may then come into operation, as the immediate or exciting causes of the delirium. In- creasing mappetency, and abstinence therefore from nourishiug food ; the drinker picking a bit now and then, or fancying only such things as hot tea and coffee, to whip up the stomach, or pickles, just to get something down. In this state of half-starvation, the disease is ever lable to set in. Or, the deprivation sometimes through penury,