VARICOSE VEINS, OR VARIX. 663 ous condition of the veins of a part; the knotty enlargements corre- sponding to the sinuses behind the valves in these vessels. Thickening or thinning of the coats of the veins, at different points, and destruction, wholly or partially, of the valves, accompany these more perceptible changes of size and outline. Certain more mimde changes in the coats and valves of varicose veins are thus described by Hasse ; changes which constitute different forms of varix, and represent the order of their occurrence :— " In persons affected with a morbid preponderance of the venous system, we first of all observe an undue prominence of the veins of the skin. These appear in dense nets of branches, remarkable for their diffuse distribution, and are generally turgid with blood, or liable to become so from the slightest mechanical or dynamical causes—like what, under ordinary circumstances, would be the effect of violent and prolonged muscular exertion. In this condition of the veins, their coats have not undergone any absolute change, being eveiywhere pro- portionate to the width of the calibre; the vessels are not more than usually tortuous, and cannot as yet be called morbidly altered. "After a while, however, the veins become permanently dilated, and more distinctly prominent (JFig. 175), an oc- currence more frequent in elderly than in young persons. This is brought about by a reinforce- ment of the fibrinous texture of their external coat, in the shape of an accession of conspicuous trans- verse fibres. Meanwhile the internal membrane remains unchanged in structure, merely displaying numerous lines or superficial furrows running lengthwise, and the vessel still maintains its natural course, not assuming a more sinuous, but rather a straighter direction. It does not collapse on section, but remains patent, and is distinguishable from the arteries by its colour, which is of the same pale red as the fibro-felt texture constituting the normal external membrane of a vein. The valves remain unaltered. In this condition the saphena is frequently found in old persons, so also are certain branches of the vesical plexus, while other branches manifest still further changes. " In the greater number of instances, however, the external membrane of the vein is not thickened, but, along with the other membrane, presents considerable attenuation, in proportion as the vein becomes more and more dilated. Conformably with their irregular disposition, the intermediate fibres give way unequally, allowing the internal membrane to jut out in sac-like 'protrusions, and to establish so many irregular, constricted, pear-shaped, and often in appearance, pedicu- lated tumours. At the commencement of some of the smaller branches, the membrane thus forma pouch-like dilatations, or forces itself be- tween the longitudinal fibres of the external membrane in lengthy protuberances, which exceed in circumference that of the vein in its natural state; or it may, perhaps, distend cylindrically and pretty equably for a considerable length the intermediate fibres before alluded * Saphena vein; showing enlargement,, anrl varicoBe state, as seen under the integument. Royal Coll. Surg. Mu.s., ITJ'Ja.