TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 135 before the healing of the first wound ; a third in May ; a fourth in September of the same year; a fifth sprang up, and was removed in February, 1833 ; a sixth in the ensuing May ; by a seventh operation, in June of the same year, three tumours were again excised ; but from the same spot two more arose, which grew rapidly, and the patient died. Course.—The vital career of cysts, and cystic tumours, is sufi&ciently indicated by the proliferous changes which cysts, originally barren, may undergo, and their issue, in the protrusion perhaps of the intracystic growth. The rate of growth of cysts, and the probability of their recur- rence, when removed, or apparently obliterated, vary considerably. Thus, of Simple or barren cysts; the serous and sanguineous observe no definite rule of increase, and neither, per se, are likely to return. A mucous cyst is more difficult to obliterate, and long after apparent cure, may fill again. Of Proliferous cysts ; the cystigerous may be slow growing, as an ovarian tumour, and not liable to recur- rence ; so also cutaneous cysts, as scalp wens; but cysts proliferous with vascular growths, may grow rapidly, as in the mammary gland, and generally return, even repeatedly. Treatment.—Cysts and Cystic Tumours are amenable to treatment, in accordance with the general indications, 1, 2, and 8. Simple or Barren Cysts, containing unorganized secretions of various degrees of fluid consistence, may be eiSectually reduced by absorption, destroyed, or removed, by one or other of the following modes of treatment:— Stimulating applications, as the compound tincture of iodine, may induce absorption of the contents of the cyst; and if no re-secretion ensues, a cure will thus be effected. Puncturing the cyst, and drawing off its contents, followed by compression by means of a pad of lint and bandage, is also a curative proceeding of at least a temporaiy character. But the cyst is apt to fill again eventually. By this treatment, I suc- ceeded for some time in controlling two large cysts deeply situated, one beneath the muscles of the calf, the other deep in the popliteal space. The diagnosis also, in these cases, was determined by the preparatory puncture. Puncture, and a stimulant injection, or the introduction of a seton, may succeed in obliterating the cyst by adhesion of its interior, or destroying it by sloughing, and in either way effecting a cure. Excision of the cyst is a procedure available when other resources have failed, or more advantageously, in the first instance, before the textures have been tampered with by any other treatment. A cyst may have become converted into a painless chronic abscess. I once removed a large cyst, in this condition, from beneath the tensor-vaginae and sartorius muscles, by an incision eight inches long. The man made a good recovery. In another case, I removed such a cyst from the axilla. Complete excision is rarely necessary to insure the non- recurrence of any simple cyst; a small portion left after operation, will granulate and cicatrize. But a cluster of cysts must be removed entirely; otherwise, any one remaining will afterwards continue to grow. Thus the whole mammary gland, if beset with cysts, must be sacrificed. Proliferous Cysts.—Excision is the only sure and safe mode of treat- ment ; removal of the cyst or cysts entirely, by the knife, being neces- sary to overcome the productiveness of any such cyst. Cystigerous^