CONTENTS OF VOL. I. INTEODUCTION. MonERN SuEGEEY as a Science and a Scientific Art. A primary division of Medi- cine. Pathology, and the intimate relations of Anatomy and Physiology. Biology, Physics, and Chemistry. The relative importance of Diagnosis—its Methods, Physical, Structural, Chemical, and as connected with Pathological Anatomy by Post-mortem Examination; Etiology and Prognosis. Their relation, severally, to Treatment. Conservative Surgery, and Medicine. Plastic Surgery. Pathology in the plan and performance of Surgical Operations. Conditions Favourable and Unfavourable for Operation. Pathological Condi- tions ; constitutional and local. Hygienic Conditions : Diet; Ventilation and Sunlight; Atmospheric Space in "Wards of Hospitals, Civil and Military; Drainage; Prevention of Contagion or Infection ; Antiscpticism. Preparation of Patient for Operation. Arrangements—The Eoom, Table, Instruments, Assistants. Anajsthetics—Historical notice. Chloroform—its Physiological Action. Phenomena or Symptoms. Contra-indications to the employment of Chloroform, and exceptional Operations. Administration of Chloroform, and signs of Anaesthesia. Inhalers. Death from Chloroform—by Asphyxia, Car- diac Syncope, Coma, persistent Sickness. Treatment of an overdose. Sulphuric Ether. Other Anesthetics—Nitrous Oxide or Laughing Gas; Bichloride of Methylene; Chloral. Local AnEethesia. Freezing—by frigorific mixtures, ether-spray. Dangers attending, or consequent on. Surgical Operations. Dressing of the Wound, and Constitutional After-treatment. Eesults of Oj)era- tion—Temporary, Permanent. Modes of Unsuccessful Results. Statistics in Surgery. PART I. GENEEAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. DISEASES OF NUTRITION. PAGE OuAPTER I.—Inflammation. Nutrition ......... 37 Inflammation ........ 40 Textural Changes, and State of the Circulation and Blood-Vessels . 40 Signs ......... 45 Constitutional Symptoms—Inflammatory Fever . . .50 Causes ........ 70 External and Internal . . . . .70 Exciting and Predisposing . . . . 71