720 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. This second occasion, fairly tried, should be our last by increasing- extension ; yet it is not our last resource. Unreduced dislocations, of some duration, and not reducible by ordinary extension, prolonged even for an hour or two, have sometimes been reduced by tiring the antagonistic muscles; simply by attaching a trifling weight to the limb for a few hours. This tiring-extension is quite safe, as regards both limb and life, and would therefore, whenever practicable, be far pre- ferable to increasing-extension under the influence of chloroform; but, if it fails, the muscles will have gained considerable advantage by the further delay, and by the consolidation consequent on inflammatory effusion. While, therefore, tiring-extension might be a valuable safe- guard—probably an assistant—in the intervals of a first and second attempt at reduction by increasing-extension, aided, if necessary, by chloroform, as an extra resource it is most eligible in old dislocations, where that mode of reduction would be dangerous or useless. The younger Cline, in this way, succeeded in reducing a dislocation of the shoulder which had been out for several weeks and could not be re- placed in the ordinary way. Having fixed the shoulder, a brick, attached to the hand, was suspended over the end of the bed. On visiting his patient next day, the bone had returned to the socket. In the course of extension, and especially towards its completion, it is the practice of some Surgeons to rotate the dislocated bone, so as to forcibly clear away any adhesions in the path along which the dis- placed head of bone should return home. But this forcible detrusion of any and every obstacle is damaging and unnecessary. And if such obstacles have become established, in an old unreduced dislocation, then indeed it is very questionable whether reduction should be at- tempted, and certainly not accompanied with the rupturing force of rotation. CoajJtation, following adequate extension, is the next and final step, after reduction, which it may be said to complete. The displaced head of bone has been reduced, or brought back to that point where the muscles first began to operate, and where it was situated immediately after the displacement as effected by the violence which dislodged the bone. It stands on the brink of its natural articular surface or cavity; the one ready to regain, the other to re-establish, the articulation. This final step it is now the duty of the Surgeon to observe, or to undertake, by coaptation—a manipulation analogous to the setting of fracture. Surgical assistance is needed according to the resistance offered by the shape and attitude of the two articular surfaces to be brought together. The head of bone may only need guiding to its proper place, into which the muscles, if not too much relaxed, will draw it; or it may require to be lifted over the brink of the articular cavity, if this its margin be prominent; as that of the acetabulum, in relation to dislocation of the bead of the femur. Direct manipulation is, however, more generally necessary in the coaptation of hinge-joint dislocations; while, in ball- and-socket dislocations, the displaced bone is more usually guided into its hole, by properly directing the axis of the limb, towards the finish of extension. The ligaments scarcely ever resist. They are, in most cases, extensively torn ; the capsular ligaments especially so. But a small rent only, in a ligamentous capsule, may offer some impediment; or the aperture may be occupied by a portion of torn tendon or muscle. Any ligament peculiar to the joint is also generally torn through, as