SCURVY AND PURPURA. 237 all over the hard palate. Red or livid spots are found on various parts of the body, principally on the legs, together with bruised-looking patches, of a yellowish-green colour, swollen and as hard as brawn. Extensive effusions of fibrin rather than pure blood, forming very hard, broad, and painful swellings, are found imbedded in the deep cellular texture and between muscles. Over these fibrinous mats, the skin sometimes retains its natural colour, but usually appears bruised, is always thickened and brawny, and adherent to the subjacent textures. SwelHngs such as these occur particularly in the thighs and legs, but most commonly in the hams, occasioning stiffness and contraction of the knee-joint. Nodes also arise from this effusion taking place between the bones and their periosteal investment; the tight swellings formed thereby giving great pain upon the slightest motion, even by turning in bed. None of these effusions, whether of fibrin or blood, ever suppurate ; nor do the nodes just mentioned, however large their size, ever cause the bone to exfoliate. The dark livid or purple colour of scurvy overshadows any skin- eruption, wound, or ulcer, which may chancd to be present during this disease. A dark grumous coagulum juts out from the surface of an ulcer; and this—which, owing to its appearance, has been named by sailors hulloch's liver—often attains an incredible size in the course of a single night. To conclude the catalogue of haBmorrhagic lesions, repeated issues of blood from the nose are common, blood may be coughed up or vomited, lost by the bowels, and perhaps passed with the urine. Scurvy is apt to prove fatal suddenly, from exhaustion. This re- markable feature in its career, with others of instructive moment, were exemplified in an equally remarkable manner during Lord Anson's expedition, 1740-44. The narrative states:—"Many of our people, though confined to their hammocks, ate and drank heartily, were cheer- ful, and talked with much seeming vigour and in a loud, strong tone of voice; yet, on their being the least moved, though it was only from one part of the ship to another, and that in their hammocks, they immediately expired; others, who confided in their seeming strength, and resolved to get out of their hammocks, died before they could reach the deck. It was no uncommon thing for those who could do some kind of duty and walk the deck, to drop down dead in an instant, on any endeavoiir to act with their utmost vigour ; many of our people having thus perished during the course of this voyage." Purpura.—Similar Symptoms characterize Purpura, but there is not the same marked dejection and feebleness, nor are the gums always fungous. Extravasation of blood occurs in the form of small, round, purple spots, rather than parti-coloured blotches. These spots of blood are scattered in almost every texture. According to Sir Thomas Watson's experience, they are not peculiar to the skin, nor to the sub- cutaneous tissues, but occur occasionally upon all the internal surfaces also, and within the substance of the viscera. For example, on the mucous membrane of the mouth, throat, stomach, and intestines; on the pleurae and pericardium, in the chest; on the peritoneal investment of the abdominal organs ; in the substance of the muscles ; and even upon the membranes of the brain, and in the sheaths of the larger nerves; and they may be accompanied with large extravasations of blood in most of the vital organs of the body. Such lesions are neces-