253 SYPHILIS. Mr. H. Lee recognizes four different morbid ^processes and corre- sponding forms of Primary Syphilis :— First.—The inoculated part may become affected with the adhesive form of inflammation, in which lymph is poured out either in the sub- stance or on the surface of the part. Second.—The inoculated part may, within a few days of the applica- tion of the poison, be affected with su-ppurative inflammation. Third.—The absorbents may assume an active share in the morbid process, and taking up some of the infected parts, and with them portions of the syphilitic poison, produce an acute inflammation of a lymphatic gland. This form of the disease is termed ulcerative in- flammation. Fourth.—The morbid action may terminate in mortification. Of this there are two practical subdivisions :— (a) Death of the whole infected part, which is then thrown off as a slough; (i) Dissolution and death of a part only of the contaminated structure, leaving a part still infected. Situation.—The external parts of the genital organs are obviously the common situation of the chancre, and some parts are more especially liable. Thus, in the male, that portion of the penis is commonly the seat of chancre, which having been exposed in sexual intercourse, is apt to retain any secretion with which it came in contact. Hence, the furrow between the glans and prepuce, and perhaps near the frasnum is the most frequent situation; but chancre may form on the inner surface, or at the margin of the prepuce, or on the frsenum; sometimes on the glans, or at the orifice of the urethra, or perchance on the skin, of the penis. Urethral chancre is, however, not unfrequently met with; the chancre being situated immediately within the orifice of the urethra, or higher up in the canal. In the one case, it may easily be seen on just everting the lips of the urethral aperture; in the other case, it can be felt as a more or less nodulated induration of the urethra when pressed between the thumb and finger. Chancres thus situated have been found by Ricord to extend along the whole canal up to the bladder, in rare cases. Urethral chancre emitting its discharge from the external orifice, may be mistaken for gonorrhoea; but, while their diagnosis cannot be determined by the variable appearance of the dis- charge, inoculation will evince its true nature; a chancre being produced if the matter be syphilitic, and not by gonorrhoeal discharge. The presence of a nodulated induration in the urethra will corroborate the diagnosis. In the/emaZe, also, the external genitals are the common situation of chancre, as just vnthin the labia minora; less frequently on the mucous membrane of the vagina, or on the os uteri or within the cervix. Examination will readily discover a chancre when situated externally; but the speculum must be used to detect the presence of a vaginal or uterine chancre. In certain unnatural situations, chancre may occasionally be found ; as at the anus, or on the lips of the mouth; suspicious of practices which need not be named. Bubo, and its Diagnosis.—Bubo is a generic term, signifying a' swelling of the lymphatic glands, and specially those of the groin {jiovfioiv, the groin), of an inflammatory character, acute or chronic, and with or without suppuration. It may arise from any cause of local irritation, affecting the lymphatic vessels continuous with the