469 ANEUKISM. hindering coagulation, disposes it to remain fluid in the sac, will favour the continuance of pulsation. A vas aberrans may exist, which com- municating directly, or indirectly, with the aneurism, thus continues its pulsation. An instance of this kind occurred to Sir Charles Bell. He ligatured the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. The patient died a week afterwards from erysipelas ; and it was then discovered that the femoral artery was double, and that the vas aberrans had continued to supply blood to the aneurism in the ham, after the operation. Tet in this case, the sac had become completely consoli- dated with coagulum, and in the short period of one week. The preparation is in the museum of University Col- lege, London; and the instructive lesson it con- ^^S- US., veys will be further impressed by the engraving. (Fig. 118.) Other contingencies, by which the pulsation of an aneurism continues after the appli- cation of a ligature, relate to the operation. The ligature may not have been applied to the aneu- rismal artery ; or having been applied thereto, the noose may have been tied obliquely, instead of transversely, then shifting its place and loosening its hold, the pulsation continues, or' returns, soon after the operation. Of all these causes of pulsation after the Hunterian operation for aneurism, that arising from an undue collateral circulation, as explained,, is by far the most common. But it occurs with different degres of frequency in different arteries. In carotid aneurisms it is most frequent. Of 3^1 cases, in which the carotid artery was ligatured for aneurism, pulsation continued or returned in nine ; whereas of 92 cases of inguinal aneurism, in which the external iliac artery was ligatured, pul- sation returned in six cases only. In axillary and popliteal aneurisms, respectively, recurrence of pulsation is an exceptional event.. It should be remembered that a slight thrill may very frequently be felt in an aneurism, on the second or third day, after the application of a ligature by the Hunterian method. This, how- ever-, is a favourable occurrence, as it bespeaks a feeding stream of blood for coagulation in the sac; and it supervenes with about equal fre- quency in all aneurisms, irrespective of any particular portions of the arterial system, and the distribution of vessels accordingly. The thrill, thus arising, soon subsides—with consolidation of the sac. Returning pulsation, on the other hand, if it occurs, usually begins at a much later period, not until a month or six weeks have elapsed, and continues for some- time. Returning pulsation is seldom persistent, and rarely terminates, fatally. Of 26 cases in which pulsation returned, three only were fatal and then not owing to this event, but by sloughing of the sac. (2.) ;SeconfZcw2/Aneurism, or aneurism reappearing hj redilatation of