MODEKN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 21 naturally undergone in the course of this period of life. Nutrition is inactive, and reparation accordingly is defective ; hence the special liability to secondary hemorrhage—the vessels being insecurely closed, and to pytemic infection—the wound remaining open; or exhaustion ensues from the prolonged process of repair, and thus the patient is apt to sink even during convalescence. Bad subjects for surgical operation are those persons who, if not old in years, are yet, in appearance, old—prematurely—for their age. Certain types of this description are vividly portrayed by Sir James Paget in his highly suggestive " Clinical Lectures and Essays": " They that are fat and bloated, pale, vnth soft textures, flabby, torpid, wheezy, incapable of exercise, looking older than their years, are very bad. They that are fat, florid, and plethoric, firm-skinned, and w^ith good muscular power, clear-headed, and willing to work like younger men, are not indeed good subjects for operation, yet they are scarcely bad. The old people that are thin, and dry, and tough, clear-voiced and bright-eyed, with good stomachs and strong wills, muscular and active, are not bad ; they bear all but the largest operations very well. But very bad are they who, looking somewhat like these, are feeble, and soft-skinned, with little pulses, bad appetites, and weak digestive power; so that they cannot, in an emergency, be well nourished." Previous habits of life are connected with sofne such bad subjects for surgical operation. Habitual intemperance, in the use of stimulants, is specially unfavourable; whether the individual be a confirmed drunkard, or an habitual soaker, who never appears to get drunk. The latter are, indeed, worse subjects for operation than the former. On the other hand, teetotalers, as being more often reclaimed drunkards, are also by no means good subjects. " Of such people," observes Sir James Paget, "I have no good opinion when they come to be the subjects of surgery ; for they seem to retain the bad liabilities of the intemperate long after they have given up their bad habits." Habitual over-eating—another mode of intemperance—is scarcely less important, although perhaps less generally prevalent, relative to the risks of life from surgical operation. Among the " upper classes," not a few persons are thus bad subjects,—having their blood surcharged with unassimilated food, especially of an azotised character; and this evil condition reaches its maximum in the retention of excremen- titious matter, from the want of bodily exercise, or when relieved only by " carriage-airings." I proceed to notice, more particularly, various constitutional and organic conditions. The state of the nervous system is a primary consideration. When itself naturally irritable, or when in an irritable state for the time being, this condition is peculiarly unfavourable for surgical operation. It seems to be associated with a weak circulation, and the patient is apt to sink soon after any severe surgical procedure. But the judicious administration of opium with wine, brandy, or other stimulants, will often succeed in preparing the patient for operation, and carry him oy her through the critical period subsequently. Chloroform, be- sides preventing pain, has a specially beneficial influence in irritable nervous persons, subjected to operation for surgical disease, or when the circulation is depressed by the shock of injury. Hysteria does not render the patient liable to any special risk; the sensibility to pain not being attended with any notable excitement of the circulation or