76 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. lymph, which has undergone more or less development; and on serous surfaces, it may reach the state of organization just described, that of fibro-cellular tissue, supplied perhaps abundantly with blood-vessels. The physical characters of false membranes vary according to their more or less high degree of organization and vascularity; the mem- brane formed is either pliant and yielding, or tough and unyielding. Adhesion is apt to take place when the opposed surfaces of a serous cavity lined with inflammatory lymph, meet together. Similar adhesion may take place in wounds, or under other circumstances. Any such result of inflammatory lymph-effusion is sometimes referred to adhesive inflammation. Other and more highly developed tissues are reproduced. Many such results of inflammatory lymph-production are adduced by Paget. Adipose tissue may be formed, if not directly from inflammatory lymph, yet in the fibro-cellular tissue of completely organized adhe- sions. Elastic tissue is sometimes abundantly formed in the adhesions developed from inflammatory lymph, and particularly in those of the pleura. Epithelium covers the surfaces of well-formed adhesions. Fibrous tissue is produced from the development of inflammatory lymph, interstitially deposited in any fibrous tissue; as in ligaments, capsules of joints, etc. Bone is often formed, either as a late trans- formation of inflammatory lymph, which had become organized into perfect fibrous tissue; e.g., osseous plates in false membranes of the pleura, and in those of the pericardium, which plates are not true bone; or new bone appears in the form of ossific deposits, connected with inflamed bone or periosteum. Cartilage may be produced in chronic rheumatic arthritis. This new cartilage is prone to ossify. Lymph-effusion may undergo ah sorption; or if persistent, its operation may be either destruc- tive, or reparative and construc- tive, and accordingly unfavourable or favourable to the function of the organ or texture affected. Destructive consequences of lymph-effusion are illustrated by many organs. The heart may be shackled by tags of false mem- brane, which continually restrain- ing the action of this organ, at length induces its hypertrophy; a compensatory provision of in- creased structure for extra con- tractile power. Or the heart may undergo compression by great thickening of the cardiac reflexion of the pericardium, in consequence of the interstitial deposition of lymph therein (Fig. 19) ; and thence, eventually, the organ be- * Great thickening of cardiac reflexion of the pericardium. Sudden •while turning in bed.—Author.