202 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Disintegration is related to Degeneration: the latter presupposes tbe former, but conversely, the former does not necessarily presuppose the latter; for Disintegration may occur independently, without any preceding Degeneration of texture. Ulceration, and Mortification including Gangrene, are essentially processes of Disintegration and textural death. But the pathology of these processes, and their difference in degree only, should be clearly understood. Uloekation is a disintegrative process, essentially; generally also oi inflammatory origin. The molecular matter resulting from ulcera- tion may disappear in either of two ways :— Firstly.—By discharge, in the liquid form; thus leaving a chasm or ulcer. Secondly.—By absorption through the lymphatics and veins jointly, especially the former vessels; thus leaving a chasm or ulcer. Possibly, both modes of removing the disintegrated textures co- operate in ulceration. Observe a case of common ulceration. The shin having come into collision with some blunt obstacle, receives a tolerably severe bruise. What probably happens ? The bruised portion of integument becomes inflamed; in the course of a few days a small piece separates and comes away, leaving a chasm, from which more or less discharge of some kind issues; in fact, the skin, with perhaps the subjacent cellular tissue, has slowly undergone " solution of continuity," and an ulcer is formed. (Fig. 74.) Its formation and extension are termed ulceration. The balance of evidence is, I think, decidedly in favour of the removal of the disintegrated matter by discharge. This matter can, indeed, be seen to come away occasionally; the molecular matter accu- mulating in the form of minute sloughs, whenever disintegration pro- ceeds too rapidly for its discharge in the liquid form; and again disappearing as molecular matter, when disintegration and discharge proceed evenly. Hunter originated the doctrine of "ulcerative absorption"—a doc- trine which eventually took firmer root than perhaps any other of Hunter's views. "When," says he, "it becomes necessary that some whole living part should be removed, it is evident that nature, in order to effect this, must not only confer a new activity on the absorbents, but must throw the part to be absorbed into such a state as to yield to this operation;" and among the circumstances which lead to absorp- tion. Hunter enumerates '■'■death of the part." Now, the possibility of dead tissue being removed by ulcerative absorption is demonstrated by the appearances which necrosed bone presents when a portion has been exposed, and the remaining portion for a time sui-rounded by living textures. For example, the shaft of the femur having become necrosed, the sequestrum loosens and even- tually separates, or is easily taken away with the forceps. If, during the process of separation, part of the sequestrum has been exposed, that portion is seen to be smooth and polished, while the remaining poi-tion which has been enclosed in new bone is seen to be xoorm-eaien, obviously, under these circumstances, from absorption. So also dead bone, artificially inserted into living bone, is in time partially absorbed. New blood-vessels are developed around a sequestrum, apparently to meet the increased demands on absorption. Mr. Aston Key called