INFLAMMATION. 99 able for this purpose. LeecHes can be applied to a part wbicli is inaccessible to the cupping-glass, as tlie os uteri. But the drawing action of a cupping-glass, the pressure of the atmosphere being removed, penetrates to a greater depth than the abstraction of blood by leeches. Hence cupping is more suitable for inflammation of internal organs, as the kidneys when inflamed. In employing either mode of topical blood-letting, it should be re- membered that hemorrhage may continue for some time after a leech- bite or cupping. An average-sized leech, when fully distended and ready to drop off, holds about a drachm and a half of blood, and the amount drawn by a cupping-glass can be watched and measured ; but the quantity which flows subsequently should always be taken into account and allowed for, more especially with regard to leeches, the after-heemorrhage from which is more uncertain—by fomentation amounting to half an ounce, or far more, even spontaneously. A single leech has thus proved fatal to an infant. The haemorrhage is, perhaps, best arrested by touching the little triangular punctured wound firmly with nitrate of silver ; or, by transfixing the bite with a fine needle, and applying a figure of eight ligature. Dry cupping, or the application of an exhausted cupping-glass without previously using the scarificator, is a method of drawing blood to the surface, without abstracting it from the mass in circulation; yet it may be questionable whether the blood thereby rendered stagnant, is not spoilt for the purpose of any returning circulation. The corpuscles are damaged or destroyed, and this change will, of course, be more likely to occur, the more frequently the cupping-glass is re-applied to the same part; so that the blood might as well be withdrawn from the body, as left partially extravasated with its corpuscles broken up. It has been proposed to stop the afflux of blood to an inflamed part, either by ligature or compression of the main artery ; a mode of reducing the local circulation which may prove even more effectual than the topical abstraction of blood. Ligature was thus practised by Professor Campbell, at the Georgia Hospital, during the American war; and his experience led him to this conclusion—that in all cases of destructive inflammation, especially from injury, in the leg or arm, ligature of the artery supplying the affected part should be tried, whenever the state of the patient will admit of this procedure, before resorting to amputation. Compression, recommended by Professor Vanzetti of Padua, has been practised with success, not only by himself, but also in Paris, and in Prague, and in a case by the late Mr. C. H. Moore. Position.—An elevated position of an inflamed part is equivalent to the local abstraction of blood. The determination of blood becomes diminished, and the return of blood facilitated ; whereby the quantity in the part is greatly reduced. Elevation thus offers a resource which is a good substitute for, or a useful adjunct to, local blood- letting. Its efficacy is witnessed in the treatment of inflammation affecting different parts of the lower extremity; as in compound fracture of the leg, dislocation or disease of the knee-joint, and other morbid conditions. The relaxation of any muscles which, subject to spasm, would disturb the part inflamed, is another important con- sideration. This must be affected hj posture. Incisions may be resorted to for the relief of tension; this beino-