SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 450 The treatment will, therefore, be guided by these indications of nerve-reparative power. Rest in all cases, and apposition of the ends, if the nerve be divided. Neuritis.—%m^i5oms.—Inflammation of a nerve is attended with pain, severe and continued, shooting along the nerve or nerves affected; and rendered intolerable by pressure in their course, or on attempting to move the part. Jerking of the muscles often occurs. Some heat and swelling along the course of the nerve may perhaps be detected, if the inflamed nerve be situated near the surface. Marked inflammatory fever is present in all cases. Chronic neuritis is distinguished by a subsidence of all the symptoms, leaving the nerve still sensitive, and sometimes painful; and the individual worn out by suffering and sleeplessness. Causes.—Usually arising from injury, the vai'ious lesions to which nerves are liable may induce inflammation, extending along the sheath of the injured nerve. But neuritis may also proceed from some blood- poison, of which it is the local, or one of the local, manifestations. Sciatica is probably a manifestation of this kind ; a rheumatic inflam- mation of the sciatic nerve. Treatment.—Local blood-letting and warm fomentations are most suitable in neuritis of traumatic origin; while opiates or sedatives, as hyoscj^amus or conium, may procure sleep, or relieve the otherwise incessant suffering. Rheumatic neutritis must be treated, locally and constitutionally, as acute or chronic rheumatism. Neuralgia.—Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—Pain is still the essential symptom of neuralgia, as in neuritis. It may be even more severe or excruciating, but it is paroxysmal; shooting along the course of a nerve, or diffused, but commonly relieved by firm pressure, although generally induced by the slightest superficial touch or movement of the part. Various anomalous sensations may be experienced, as creeping, tickling, or burning in the part. Spasm of the muscles is a frequent concomitant. Slight heat, pufiiness, and redness may supervene, and increased secretion, as of tears or saliva when the nerves of the eye or jaw are affected. But no fever of an inflammatory character accom- panies the attack. Its duration is usually much shorter than neuritis; lasting perhaps only a few minutes, although prolonged indefinitely in some cases. The periodical return of neuralgia, at a certain time in the day, or in certain months of the year, is also .characteristically distinctive. From structural disease of the part, neuralgia is distinguished by the absence of any special physical signs—e.g., inflammatory swelling, and of fever ; and also by the character and disproportionate severity of the pain. From hysterical pain, it differs in mostly being restricted to one part, and by the absence of general hysterical symptoms. The association of structural disease with neuralgia is sometimes most perplexing. But here—and with regard to hysteric pain—the diagnosis may be determined by the aggravation of the pain by deep pressure, rather than any marked cutaneous sensibility. The mis- taking structural disease for neuralgia would mislead the treatment; but this error is riot so seriously misleading as the mistaking neuralgic pain for structural disease. By attention to the foregoing points of distinction, the line may generally bo safely drawn between neuralgia and disease of the joints, the breast, testicle, and other parts. Certain nerves are more frequently the seat of neuralgic pain. The