713 DISLOCATION. having become converted into an abscess, the joint should be laid freely open by incisions, as advocated by Mr. Gay; and a position of the limb secured favourable for its utility, in the event of irreparable destruction of the articulation, followed by anchylosis. Destruction of the joint without this issue must be met either by excision of the diseased bone, or by amputation of the limb. The choice of these alternatives should be determined by a due consideration of the local and constitutional conditions. Fortunately, traiimatic arthritis, as proceeding from the synovial membrane to the adjoining cartilages and bones, seldom engages these structures beyond the range of excision. But the constitutional exhaustion may be so severe, as to compel recourse to amputation, rather than peril life by the slow recovery consequent on excision. Or, amputation may become necessary—and then without an alternative—after excision. Primary amputation, it would thus appear, should not be resorted to in any case. But, in its preventive relation to pyaemia, more espe- cially, it is questionable whether this operation might not be justifiable occasionally. An open, and perhaps contused, wound of a large joint, as the knee, represents conditions which may justify immediate ampu- tation. In the two such knee-joint cases under my care, life might perhaps have been saved by at once removing the limb; although in the third such case, both limb and life were preserved without any operative interference. Fracture involving the joint, or dislocation, as complications, in similar cases of wound, mostly demand immediate amputation. Wounds of Particular Joints are to be regarded in accordance with the general pathology and treatment of this kind of injury. Dislocation. Dislocation.—Structural Conditions.—Dislocation is a displacement of the articulatory portion of a bone from the surface on which it was naturally received ; accompanied by more or less laceration of the liga- ments, of the tendons and muscles, or other surrounding structures, and with some effusion of blood around the seat of injury. As arising from external violence, Dislocations may be termed 33X. traumatic; and when consequent on destruc- tion of the joint from disease, they are named spontaneous or pathological — dislocations which take place chiefly in the hip and knee-joints. Dislocations differ essentially in regard to the mode of their reparation, according as they are unaccompanied or attended by an open wound communicating with the dislocation ; the one being termed Simple, the other Compound. Complicated Dislocation is also a recognized distinction, signifying the concurrent injury of some other part. But this is not an essential con- dition, as pertaining to Dislocation. Con- genital Dislocation arises from malformation of the joint affected. In respect to the extent of displacement; dislo- cation may be incomplete, as hinge-joint dislocations not unfrequently are; or complete, as those of orbicular joints usually are (Fig. 331); this