ULCERATION AND ULCERS, GANGRENE AND MORTIFICATION. 221 Arteritis—inflammation of an artery—is a far less frequent cause ; it acts in a similar manner, and may induce gangrene of the same character, or more dry and horny. Fibrinous coagulum may form as a thrombus within an artery, either by the deposition of fibrin around a calcareous projection from the interior, or in a sacculated dilatation of the vessel; in either way the clot, gathering more fibrin, advances into the artery, so as at length to entirely plug up the canal. Or, instead of arterial thrombosis, the coagulum may not have formed in the artery where it is found im- pacted, but have been washed from the left ventricle of the heart and carried thence by the current of blood to that vessel; such a clot being known as an embolus, and an artery thus impacted with clot, as embolism. The gangrene arising from either of these modes of arterial occlusion may be dry or moist, according to the rapidity and complete- ness of clot formation or impaction. Rupture of the internal and middle coats of a large artery, by vio- lence, will also induce coagulation; the loose portion folding inward across the stream of blood. Mortification is liable to supervene. Aneurism is another cause ; partly by interrupting the free flow of arterial blood through the aneurismal artery, and partly, by pressure on adjacent veins, obstructing the return of venous blood. Popliteal aneurism will thus induce gangrene, which soon passes into sphacelus. Wound of a main artery acts in two ways. A punctured wound is sometimes an immediate cause, by loss of blood; gangrene taking place in the extremities. Sir B. Brodie mentions the case of a drunken man, who was bled profusely, and both feet became gangrenous in a few hours. A contusion or bruise may lead to sloughing of the vessel, after some days have elapsed; this being attended with haemorrhage and false aneurism, followed by mortification. Laceration of the vessel may, in like manner, have the same issue. In either case, the integu- ments may have escaped injury. Simple fracture, and perhaps simple dislocation, will thus lead to mortification, occasionally. Compound fracture and dislocation, far more frequently. Ligature of an artery is liable to induce to gangrene, an event which will be considered in the treatment of Aneurism. It is highly important to observe the partial extent to which gan- grene spreads, in connection with all these vascular lesions, as con- trasted with gangrene arising from any constitutional cause. Unlimited in that case, it is here limited in extent to the source of gangrene, and probably restricted to less than that extent, by the enlargement of branches coming from the artery above the seat of injury, which supply a collateral and compensatory circulation of blood. Thus limited is the gangrene arising from the ossification of arteries or senile gan- grene ; from arteritis; from embolism; from partial rupture of an artery; from aneurism ; from wound of an artery, whether punctured, contused, or lacerated; and from ligature. But, then, the limitation connected with some of these causes—the point to which gangrene may extend—can scarcely be determined during life. This is the practical ground of distinction between senile gangrene, arising from ossification of the arterial vessels, and traumatic gangrene; and in favour of the latter, the limitation of which can be more definitely predicated. Failing this foreknowledge, the Surgeon must wait the "line of demarcation," drawn by nature.