GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 332 until the normal standard is regained, and wliich is maintained. In fatal cases, no fall of temperature takes place, as in cases of recovery. Chloroform seems to have little or no influence on the temperature. Although the thermometer thus supplies the most reliable indications of shock and reaction, the correspondence, observes Mr. Furneaux Jordan, between the temperature and the pulse, and especially between the pulse and the respiration, is less than in medical fevers. Treatment.—This should have reference to the cause or causes of shock. Some are slight and transient, and reaction soon follows. Others, again, are more severe and perchance persistent; whereby the shock being more intense and lasting, reaction will be delayed and imperfect. The removal of any cause still in operation is, therefore, obviously of primary, and in a measure of preventive, consequence. Hence, surgical interference—as by the reduction of fracture or disloca- tion, of strangulated hernia, and the amputation of a severely injured limb—may be of vital importance, in the treatment of shock. Remedial measures take effect according to the natural tendency to reaction, and this—even apart from the continued operation of causes—is not immediate. The patient should be placed in the recum- bent position, and stimulants administered to further aid the returning circulation. Warm tea for children, brandy or ammonia and water for adults, may be given, provided the patient can swallow; otherwise, during insensibility, any fluid is liable to pass into the larynx and cause suffocation. Watching the effect on the pulse, stimulants must be repeated from time to time as occasion requires. Volatile ammonia may be held to the nostrils occasionally, when fluids cannot be swallowed. Then also, a stimulating enema, of turpentine for example, will be an advantageous mode of stimulation. In all cases, warm blankets, hot bottles to the feet and epigastrium, and perhaps galvanism, are available and effectual resources. The possibility of over-stimulation, by any of the means employed, must not be overlooked ; remembering that sensation, for a time, is in abeyance, we should, as Professor Miller expressed it, " feel for the patient." In apparently Iwimless cases, arti- ficial respiration, patiently continued, may be resorted to with success. Opening the external jugular vein is recommended by Mr. Savory, in consideration of the engorgement of the right side of the heart and venous system. Collapse from the loss of blood by hgemorrhage from any cause, suggests the employment of " transfusion," as the special means of meeting this emergency. Nourishment also, to supply the loss of blood, is then a more immediately urgent requirement than in ordinary nervous shock. Excessive reaction must be met by opiates rather than blood-letting; the fever being nervous more than inflammatory. The substitution of light nourishing food for mere stimulants, will be found advantageous; for there is still a strange mixture of exhaustion with such reaction. Traumatic Delirium requires similar treatment. The quantity of opium borne with impunity, and eventually proving remedial, by in- ducing sleep, is often surprising. Grain doses of solid opium, or equiva- lent doses of the tincture, may be administered repeatedly, at intervals, according to the degree of excitement, with stimulants, in kind and quantities, according to the prostration or exhaustion, and the previous habits of the individual. The hypodermic injection of morphia is often a more cex^tain and speedy method of administering a narcotic, without