ANEUEISM OF COMMON FEMORAL ARTERY. 511 * St. George's Hosp. Mus. vi. 119. and 1 of delirium tremens. Of tlie remaining 2 out of 33, one deatb was unconnected with the operation, and in the other case the cause is not specified. Pulsation returned in the sac in six of the Fig. 139. * aneurismal cases ; several weeks after the opera- tion in some cases, and followed by death in only one case. In two of the three successful cases after ligature for double aneurism on the same side, pulsation returned in the inguinal aneu- rism ; but it ceased, after a while, in both. In the following case, ligature of the external iliac (Fig. 139) had a successful result with regard to the aneurism. The sac is quite full of clot, mostly colourless; and the artery also is plugged with coagulum, between the sac and the ligature, and at a part two and three inches above it. Below the sac, the artery is free from clot. Death occurred fifteen days after the operation, from " secondary deposits" in the lung. Ligature of the common iliac must be had recourse to, if the aneurism extends beneath. Poupart's ligament into the pelvis, or partially involves the external iliac. Wounds, and Traumatic Anetjrism, of tJie Common Femoral Artery.— Doiible ligature of the vessel at the seat of the injury is the rule of treatment established by Gruthrie's observations in this, as in all similar cases. The artery being wounded so near to Poupart's liga- ment, haemorrhage will of course be more perilous, owing to the great difficulty of compressing the vessel above, in applying the ligatures. Secondary hgemorrhage also and gangrene are both imminent sub- sequently. Amputation is the only resource in either of these events; ligature of the external iliac has invariably failed to prevent the recurrence of secondary haemorrhage. Aneurismal Vabix, and Varicose Aneurism, in the Groin.—Double ligature; the tumour having been laid open, and the aperture of com- munication between the vessels sought. This operative proceeding ia recommended by Guthrie, as for varix and varicose aneurism occurring in other situations. But the unavoidably perilous haemorrhage, in • seeking the aperture of communication between the femoral artery and vein, will always be a most serious consideration; for it will be found : impossible to safely control the hgemorrhage during the operation, by I compressing the artery above. Ligature of the external iliac—the alternative operation—has, on the ' other hand, failed entirely. In the four cases recorded, a fatal termina- I tion was referable to the operation; two dying of secondary hsemor- 1 rhage, and two of gangrene.