371 WOUNDS OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. •withdrawn fortliwith. If thus released, the lips do not adhere; the surfaces may do so, partially or entirely. But if the parts be heavy, and pendulous, as the under-flap of a thigh-stump, yet without tension, all the sutures had better be left in this, the first dressing. The removal of any ligature or ligatures is, like their application, not necessarily part of the treatment of an incised wound; and will be considered under "Wounds of Arteries. The bandage, if any, and the compresses, if any, are no longer needed when union is sufficiently firm not to risk straining the parts, by the loss of these surface-supports. Generally, the first few days will sufiice. Swelling, however, as in amputation-wounds, may yet require the partial support of a turn or two of the bandage, until tension has subsided. Thus, one by one, the appliances of Surgery are withdrawn; one by one, these artificial props are removed; until at length, and ere long, in most cases, nature is able to consolidate the union, without further assistance. Such then is, what I would term, the "conservative" treatment of incised wounds; an example, from first to last, utterly opposed to meddlesome Surgery. "Wounds of Aeteries and Veins. These Lesions are conveniently taken next in order. "Wounds of Arteeies.—Structural Conditions.—A wound of an artery, like that of any other texture, may be incised, or lacerated; either of which lesions may be partial or complete. Fig. 87. Incision, i^artially extending through the calibre of an artery, and practically equivalent to a punctured wound, varies in direc- tion; being longitudinal, oblique, or transverse, and these are important practical distinctions (Fig. 87); so also is the varia- tion in size of an aperture, which :may be of any circumferential extent, short of comjolete division ' of the vessel. Laceration, partiathj extending through the coats of an artery, is limited to one or more of its three coats; the external, and more or less of the middle coats, may be torn through, leaving only the thin inner one entire; or, the two inner coats are severed, leaving only the thick external cellular coat untorn. This latter condition of laceration IS effected by the surgical application of a ligature. Lastly, all three coats are torn through, if the laceration be complete; but the external cellular coat and cellular sheath, being tougher than the two inner coats, are drawn out from off them, which also retract; thus forming a canal of loose cellular tissue. The Signs of any such wound of an artery are hcemorrhage, the blood haying a florid red colour, and jetting out from the vessel, per satiwn, with each beat of the heart; not escaping in a continuous stream of purple or black blood. The force and, in a degree, the rapidity of