■■■^4 GENEKAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. tansky, Frerichs, and Mr. Simon, respecting cysts of the kidney. It would appear that certain cells expand and develop themselves into larger cells, which aggregate together in " nests," each nest becoming enveloped with a thin capsule of fibro-cellular filaments, which thus forms a cyst containing cells. Fig. 33.* But the erring cells themselves may each acquire suflBcient size to merit the name of a cyst. The cells which naturally inhabit the villi of the chorion, according to Dr. Mettenheimer, occasionally enlarge into cysts, and form the hydatid mole. From erring cells are some- times produced serous cysts in the neck, in the thyroid body, in the gums, in the mammary gland, and a cystic condition of the choroid plexus. By this mode of origin, also, may be evolved certain sangui- neous cysts, e.g., in the neck ; certain adventitious synovial burs®, e.g., ganglions formed in connection with the sheaths of tendons; and certain seminal cysts. (Paget.) A surprising proliferous power is frequently manifested by cysts derived from erring cells, of which some instances of cystic diseases of the breast and other glands are probably illustrations. Associated with this power of growth and development, is the well-known fact that proliferous cysts frequently recur after, as it would appear, the com- plete extirpation of the original cyst. Sir James Paget relates a remarkable case of this kind, recorded by M. Lesauvages. The patient was sixty-three years old. The first tumour of the breast, of great size, was extirpated in February, 1832 ; a second appeared, and was removed * Proliferous cyst-formations from the cortical substance of the kidney, as a sequel to Bright's disease.—a. The fibrous sheath in progress of development out of d, the elongated and caudate nuclei coursing around the parent cyst or aggregation of parent cysts. They eventually break up into the requisite fibres, c is to repre- sent the point-molecule, within an amorphous blastema, out of which the nuclei (6) form. They are at first spherical, afterwards elongated, and ultimately broken into fibrillation. This constitutes the "alveolar type or arrangement." 90 diara. (Eokitansky.)