INFLAMMATION. 81 pleura; an albuminous matter is deposited in tbe lung parenchyma; and pus, in wbicli fat abounds, is more readily secreted from the (bronchial) mucous membrane. These products are known ingredients of the same blood, flowing alike to each of the three structures mentioned, and yet they severally receive a diiferent kind of deposit. The inference is, that the particular deposit is selected or secreted by the particular kind of texture. How far this secretory power is a vital property, how far it results from the physical construction of the texture, is an open question. Assuredly the physical consistence and permeability of a part will very much affect its capability of receiving this or that kind of effusion. Pyogenedis, or the origin and formation of pusrcorpuscles, is a process respecting which various explanations have been propounded, but all of which may be resolved into two sources :—(1.) Derivation of pus- cells from some source external to the capillary blood-vessels. Dr. Redfem's original observations on cell-division in articular cartilage, subject to irritation, suggested the doctrine of pus-production by the proliferation of tissue-cells. Subsequently, similar observations on the cornea of the frog, by Virchow and Heis, confirmed this view. After cauterization with nitrate of silver, or after the passage of a seton, the corneal texture swarmed with young cells, apparently in various stages of endogenous development from the tissue-cells. Enlarging fi'om this stand-point of experimental investigation; corpuscles or germs are said to abound in the cellular or connective tissue throughout the body, which, as a common stock, may generate pus-cells; and it is alleged that cell-growth results from irritation of the pai'enchymatous textures. Such is Virchow's theory of pyogenesis. Dr. Burdon Sanderson observes, that " a region is found outside the focus of suppuration, in which the connective-tissue corpuscles present altei*a- tions which are so distinct, that it is impossible for any one who is conversant with them to doubt that they signify that the tissue is germinating." This doctrine completely overturns the old theory of pus-formation by disintegration and solution of the textures. As Virchow expresses it, " Pus is not the dissolving, but the dissolved, i.e., the transformed tissue; a part becomes soft, and liquefies whilst suppurating, as the result of the proliferation of the tissue." (2.) Effusion, or exudation of the plasma of the blood, would appear to be the source of pus-cells, according to Rokitansky ; and trans- formation of the exudation corpuscles was the doctrine propounded by Dr. Hughes Bennett. In either case, the source would then be from wiilmi the vessels. It is alleged that exudation granules aggregate and constitute a compound granular mass. An investing cell-mem- brane may gather round such a mass, as a nucleus. Both these are forms of the exudation corpuscle. Partial liquefaction of the peri- pheral granular matter of a cell-enclosed mass, may then give rise to a pus-cell, with its compound granular nucleus. The chemical metamorphosis of cell-contents, or the substitution of albuminoid for fatty granules, is not explained. But the structural relation of pus-cells to exudation corpuscles, would seem to be a degenerative transformation. Several such apparently transformative conditions of exudation corpuscles are represented in Fig. 20. i'i.) Eniujration oi the paLu hlootl-corpusdes through the walls of the capillaries, is now the generally accepted iiitci'pretation of pyo- G