MODERN SURGERY AS A SCIENCE AND AN ART. 7 effects of treatment may confirm our diagnosis ; as when, in the reduc- tion of a Dislocation, the sensible snap of coaptation announces the replacement of the articular surfaces; or, the non-recurrence of a Tumour, after extirpation by operation, is evidence in support of its non-malignant nature. Medicinal agents afford, occasionally, diagnostic testimony, by their definite and specific effects; as by the influence of mercury in sypliilis, quinine in ague, and sulphur in the cure of itch. But it is only by careful and repeated clinical observation of the physical, the structural, and perhaps the chemical conditions,—^which are the more constant signs of disease or injury; by a similar observa- tion of the functional alterations, as coincident symptoms; the asso- ciation of causes, and the effects of therapeutic measures; and by connecting all this evidence, gathered during life, with the patho- logico-anatomical alterations—as demonstrated by the scalpel, the microscope, and perhaps by chemical appliances—after death, and in all stages of these alterations, that we can rationally hope to establish the most exact and earliest Diagnosis. This connection, oft-recurring, at length begets self-confidence; so that with the accumulation of such experience, our diagnosis, although determined during life, and therefore by evidence not infallible, yet having been repeatedly verified by post-mortem examination, has now become proportionately exact. The most remarkable result of Diagnosis thus worked out has been the analysis of compound diseases. Morbid conditions which were formerly regarded as simple, have been discovered to be com- pound—to consist of several diseases, which may, or may not, be associated; each of which presents its own individual pathological history, and has its own peculiar treatment. One of the most striking illustrations of this diagnostic analysis is afforded by our present differentiation of joint-diseases. The term "white swelling," which was formerly in vogue, is now known to have included at least three diseases of dissimilar character—scrofulous caries, synovitis, and ulceration of the articular cartilages, this analysis having been clearly established by the diagnostic investigations of Sir B. Brodie. Under the old term amaurosis, several distinct diseases of the retina have been discerned. Again, in the province of medicine ; continued fever, by the clinical and post-mortem investigations of Sir William Jenner, has been resolved into typhus and typhoid; exanthematous diseases as distinct as smallpox and measles. More recently also, the term phthisis pulmonalis, which in the time of Louis signified exclusively tubercular disease of the lungs, is now being resolved into other diseases, by the penetrating analysis of modem diagnostic inves- tigation. It is needless to point out how much all this advancement of Diagnosis has reformed, and is still changing, the old Nomenclature of diseases and the old iSTosology or classification of diseases. 2. Etiology comprises the knowledge of causes, and their operation, m the production of injury or disease. Such causes may be external to the body, as external violence in the production of injury, or exposure to cold in inducing disease; or, they may be internal, by the excess, deficiency, or perversion, of structure and function. Both classes of causes may be either predisposing, or immediate and exciting, in their operation. Sometimes, the former occurs after the latter mode of causation, as when an individual undergoes fatigue or privation, after