CANCER OF BONE. 707 Fig. 327* althougli the disease a further degree of Fig. 328. t such a formation is expanded and thinned or thickened; with osseous fibres traversing the substance of the tumour, radiating from its centre. It is situated most commonly in the articular ends of a long bone, or in a flat bone, as the pelvis or skull. As affecting the whole bone, this condition of the disease is some- times designated infiltrated cancer of bone. On the surface of bone, periosteal cancer forms between the bone and periosteum; rarely involving the one, while the other may sometimes be traced over the tumour. Osseous fibres radiate from the surface of the bone through the tumour; and a bony deposit, forming a coral-like mass, often spreads around it. Periosteal cancer appears, usually, in the long bones, especially affecting their articular ends. (Fig. 327.) The incrusting cartilage of the contiguous joint generally escapes, in both this and the interstitial formation of cancer; may extend to the capsule. Osteoid cancer is a term used to designate ossification than that commonly met with in interstitial and periosteal cancer-growths. This is analogous to the ossification of enchondro- matous or cartilaginous, and fibrous, tumours. Osteoid cancer is described by Mr. 0. H. Moore as being, in a well-marked case of the primary tumonr, a large mass of the hardest enamel or ivory-like bone; the glandular disease is bony, though it may be less hard; and the disease disseminated in the soft internal organs, and protruding into the blood-vessels, is also in great part osseous. The osseous fabric or skeleton of any tumour which bas undergone ossification, may thus represent an osteoid tumour or growth ; as well as when such a tumour appears in the form of a purely osseous growth or out-growth, e.g., exostosis. The characteristic appearances of the new bony- growth are seen when the soft growth, with which it is associated in the general mass of the tumour, is removed by maceration. I have here represented the skeleton of an ossified encephaloid cancer, as an osteoid tumour. (Fig. 328.) The section of a femur, showing the osseous part of such a tumour, which occupied the place of the shaft of the bone.) The osseous substance is cancellous and spiculated ; but the form of the cancellous spaces differs from those of healthy bone. The whole tumour measured thirty-six inches in circumference. It was taken from a girl aged eleven years. Any bone is liable to cancer-formation; but some are far more so than others. The femur and tibia are most subject to the disease, and particularly the articular ends of these bones at the knee-joint. 3es of cancer of the long bones of the lower limb 11 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 27. | Ibid. 1, 170 Thus, of 20