683 CARIES, OR ULCERATION OF BONE. Caries, or Ulceratioit op Boke.—The term Caries has been applied to different morbid conditions of Bone. By some Surgeons it has been used to denote scrofulous ulceration, exclusively ; and by others, to represent a morbid condition peculiar to bone, as distinguished from that of ulceration affecting the osseous texture. But the pathological identity of Caries and Ulceration is now generally acknowledged; and as such I use the term to signify Ulceration, modified only by the textural peculiarities of Bone. Structural Conditions.—Caries is essentially a disintegration of the osseous texture; and, like ulceration of the soft textures, it may be presented in two forms—as enlarging a pus-discharging cavity or abscess in the suhstance of Bone, and as affecting the surface of a Bone. Carious bone is softened, and easily breaks down under pressure with a gritty resistance; it is porous, and infiltrated with a reddish- brown oily fluid, and granular inorganic matter—the debris of the disintegrated texture. Small detached masses of dead bone may be found associated with the carious bone. It has a greyish, brown, or black colour, but the surrounding bone is highly vascular. Beyond and around the carious area, induration and hypertrophy may have taken place; the circumferential substance of the bone being dense, and presenting externally osseous nodules or spicula, with thickening of the periosteum. In the suhstance of bone, the appearance of Caries is more marked in the cancellated structure, which is also more especially the seat of caries. (Fig. 298.) The enlarged cancelli are filled with the detritus, and their walls are in a softened state; the whole crumbles down under pressure with the finger, or may be readily penetrated by a probe, and yields with a grating sensation. This condition is commonly found in the cancellated portion of the bones, and as the consequence of scrofulous inflammation-—ostitis. Caries usually occurs in the articular extremity of a long bone ; as that of the tibia Fig. 298.* or femur, in scrofulous disease of the knee-joint affecting either bone; but scarcely less frequently, it attacks the bodies of the verte- bra ; or the bones of the tarsus or of the carpus, in the foot or the wrist-joint. On the surface of a bone, Caries presents a drilled, worm- eaten appearance (Fig. 299.) The periosteum is loosened or de- tached, thickened, vascular and villous. The projections, thus formed, pass from the under sur- face of the periosteum into corre- sponding depressions in the bone, its compact structure having acquired more the open character of the cancellous. The textural condition of the bone is similar to that already described as pertaining to deep caries. Superficial caries perhaps, more commonly met with in the compact portion of * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 103. f Ibid. 1, 221. Fig. 299. t IS