Fig. 42.* TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. 143 tnay be found in tlie eye, or tlie brain ; in the connective tissue of the nerves, in subcutaneous tissue, as near the angle of the jaw ; or deep in the thio-h, in the breast, or in the jaw. As a mixed tumour associated -with other textural elements, as bone or cartilage, the growth may attain a large size, still of slimy softness, and situated perhaps in the septum of the nose. Treatment by extirpation with the knife will always prove a permanent cure, when the locality of the tumour admits of complete removal. Among fibro-cellular growths may be mentioned a rare species, named by Virchow Psammoma; a tumour containing brain-sand, and which forms only in the choroid plexuses and dura mater. FiBEOUS Tumour.-—Stmctural Gonclition and Diagnostic Characters. —The great firmness and elasticity of this growth are peculiar; and less so, its spheroidal shape when uninfluenced by the pressure of sur- rounding parts, and its occasionally lobulated character. The tumour sometimes attain a large size and weight, even seventy pounds. Its chemical basis is gelatine, but the other constituents are unknown. On section, it commonly presents a greyish colour, sometimes a yellow, brown, or bluish tint, and variously intersected by white opaque lines ; the surface assuming a convex form, like that of an inter-vertebral fibro-cartilage, owing to the elastic tension of the texture. It consists of the white, and perhaps the yellow or elastic fibres of ordinary fibrous tissue, which have an undulatory arrange- ment (Fig. 42); or a concentric disposition around distinct axes, with intermediate waving filaments ; occasionally, a uniform aspect, without any marked fasciculation. Like fibrous tissue, it is but scantily sup- phed with blood-vessels, which pass into the substance of the tumour from a fibro- cellular capsule, conducted by thin un- sheathing partitions, in the lobulated form of growth; and the capsular investment is more apparent around those tumours which are imbedded in solid organs. The vascularity of a fibrous tumour is generally inversely proportionate to its density. An abundant supply of vessels, both arterial and venous, may render the texture highly vascular, the veins perhaps forming a coarse, cavernous network. Nerve-filaments do not seem to enter into the pi'oper sub- stance of a fibrous tumour ; but, according to Billroth's observations, the fibrous texture may form around nerves and blood-vessels, and thus both may occupy the centres of the concentric arrangement of fibres. Muscular fibres, of the unstriped kind, are sometimes associated with the fibrous tissue; and the tumour so constituted Yirchow has named Myoma, or it may be called Myo-fibroma. Uterine fibrous tumour, especially, answers to this description, being a fibro-muscular rather than a purely fibrous growth. Situation.—Fibrous tumours are formed in connection with the fibrous or fibro-cellular textures ; most commonly in the substance of the uterus, or in the fibro-muscular tissue of the ligamentous re- * Uterine fibrous tumour, section, like polypus, but discontinuous with the substance ol' the uterus. (Paget.)