GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 826 As bearing on tlie question of prevention, tlie early and exact diag- nosis of glanders in animals is important. It is communicated to man by an animal in a state of disease so obviously characteristic that the danger cannot be overlooked. Two varieties of this disease, in the horse, ass, or mule, are re- cognized by Dr. R. Williams. In gangrenous glanders, the animal immediately loses its spirits, and staggers ; the nasal and conjunctival mucous membranes are beset with a number of red points, which at the end of twenty-four to |orty-eight hours, become livid; the nostrils now discharging a yellow matter, streaked with blood. This condition lasts two or three days ; then the nasal membrane falls into gangrene, and large ulcers form where portions have sloughed. The discharge increases and exhales a foetid gangrenous odour; oedema of the nostrils, scrotum, and legs soon supervenes : at length, the nostrils being glued together, respiration fails, and the animal dies. In imstular glanders, the same general debility and fever are observable as in gangrenous glanders. The specific inflammation of the nasal membrane is an eruption of pustules, said to resemble confluent small-pox, followed by a copious yellow viscid discharge from one or both nostrils. After two or three days, these pustules ulcerate, sometimes internally, so as to destroy the bones and cartilages of the nose. By absorption of the nasal morbid secretion, the sub-maxillary glands become swollen and tender, but only on the inflamed side of the head. Such enlargement is called the "kernels." QEdema of the nostrils, the sheath, and hind limbs succeeds, as in the gangrenous variety ; and respiration failing, death ensues on the eighth or tenth day, at latest. Glanders is often accompanied with "farcy," and farcy often ends in glanders. Button farcy is characterized by inflammation of the cellular tex- ture, forming tumours in different parts of the body; the head, neck, and extremities, particularly the hind legs. In four or flve days they soften and ulcerate. It is an inflammation of the lymphatic glands and vessels, usually beginning in the hind extremities, attended with lameness, and forming an irregular swelling of the limb, which at length ulcerates and discharges a sanious fluid. The period of latency in glanders affecting animals is generally short. Tavo asses—one about a year old, the other about a year and a half old —were inoculated by Turner. In the former the maxillary glands became tender on the second day, and the discharge from the nostrils was established on the following day. In the latter the maxillary glands enlarged on the third day, but the nasal discharge did not appear until the sixth day. In a horse inoculated with farcy matter, the disease did not appear untU the end of three months, and then pre- cisely at the points of puncture. Gerard states that he introduced the matter of the discharge every day, at difllerent times, into the nostrils of certain horses by means of a brush, and that the disease appeared on the seventh day, but in two others not until the thirty-second day. Fortunately, however, glanders is not an eminently contagiorm disease, either from one animal to another, or from this source to the human species; and its communieahility from one human being to another is very doubtful. A case once apparently occurred in St. Bartholomew's Hospital; a healthy nurse contracted disease from a glandered patient, and she died after a short illness, having every symptom of glanders.