GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. J22 appear drunk. Deatli ensued. In another instance, tlic bite of a rattlesnake began to manifest its effects within the first half-hour. Treatment.—U we assume the period of latency to be wider half an Jiour, preventive measures should be very promptly employed. The poison may be removed from the bitten part, or arrested before entering the general circulation, or neutralized. The application of a cupping- glass, or excision, is calculated to withdraw the poison; a ligature above the part affected, fulfils the second purpose ; caustics, the actual cautery included, the third purpose. These resources very much cor- respond to the plan of treatment enjoined by Dr. S. Weir Mitchell, of Philadelphia. Of these appliances,'that of cupping is most effi- cacious and practicable, if not the only one of value. Diffuse inflam- mation, consequent on the introduction of the poison, must be treated by free incisions and fomentations. Curative treatment has very little effect in overcoming the constitutional condition of utter prostration. Stimulants, such as brandy, wine, or ammonia, must be freely admin- istered. Arsenic, in large doses, has been recommended as a specific. Such is the " Tanjore pill," a famous Indian remedy. But its efficacy is doubtful and even perilous. Dr. Halford's experiments led him to suggest the injection of ammonia into the veins, as tending to prevent coagulation of the blood, and to stimulate the nervous system. The strong liquor ammonias is to be diluted with water, one part to two or three, and twenty to thirty drops are injected into one of the large veins near the bite. Three successful cases, by this method of treat- ment, are narrated in the " Brit. Med. Jour.," 1869. Insect-stings comprise the poisoned wounds or punctures inflicted by a variety of insects; bees, wasps, hornets, gnats, mosquitoes, the scorpion, tarantula. The local symptoms of irritation and inflammation excited by the virus introduced, and any constitutional febrility or nervous dei^ression induced, are seldom severe and soon subside. But the symptoms may assume a dangerous or even fatal character, in persons predisposed by a low state of health; the sting being followed, perhaps, by erysipelatous inflammation, of the part, or death taking place by syncope. Some such cases have undoubtedly occurred; as happened (July, 1872), in the person of a middle-aged lady, at Twickenham,—the sting of a bee behind the ear, was soon followed by unconsciousness, and death ensued in about an hour. A similar case, with a fatal termination in ten minutes, is noticed in the American " Journal of Medical Science;" and a bee-sting on the back of the finger soon induced vomiting, sweating, trembling, and great difficulty of breathing (Beck's " Med. Jurisprudence"). A number of stings, as when bees swarm and settle on the head of a person, may certainly give rise to alarming symptoms; and the locality of the part stung is sometimes also a source of danger, as the eye or the mouth, tongue, or pharynx, from swallowing a bee in a piece of honey-comb, or a wasp in a peach. The bite of the scorpion is less noxious than commonly credited in poetry and popular tradition, although in the East its effects may be more formidable ; the virulence also of the tarantula, in Italy, has been much exaggerated, while the " tarantismus," or nervous excitement produced, and which is said to be curatively ^affected by dancing to music, is merely a fiction of imposture and prejudice. Treatment.—The local ii-ritation of insect-stings may be subdued by