GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 162 cancerous; or, the ctief lactiferous tubes may be dilated into pouches or cysts, contiguous to, but quite independent of, the neighbouring cancer-growth. Such a cancer may nevertheless in its course enclose these cysts, and they remain for a time imbedded in its substance. Tlie ovary may be the seat of cysts, and also the seat of cancer; the two growths thus accidentally associated, will probably become connected, although of independent origin. Further than this, cancers may grow from the walls of common cysts, i.e., of cysts which have not origi- nated in cancer-structures. Medullary cancer, especially the villous form, sometimes grows from the walls of cysts which have themselves no cancerous appearance. (2.) Cysts derived from cancer structures—by their erring develop- ment and growth—constitute a series parallel with that of the cysts barren and proliferous, which form in innocent tumours, or in the natural textures. Cancer-cysts having this origin, are, therefore, either barren or proliferous. Of the barren species are :—Cysts filled with serous fluid, variously tinted. Serous cysts are often born in cancers, especially in those of the medullary type, which grow quickly, or to a great size. One or many such cysts may be present on the surface or in the substance of a cancer. Sometimes a single cyst of this kind enlarges so as to surpass the bulk of the cancer, exceedingly perplexing the diagnosis. Sometimes many cysts are present, as if the tumour were entirely composed of them, with cancerous structure only in their interstices. Sanguineous cysts are born as often as serous, in medullary and other cancers. The imprisoned blood undergoes changes in respect of colour and consistence, thereby diversifying considerably the appearances presented by cancers containing these cysts. Colloid cysts, i.e., cysts containing a glairy jelly—not cancerous—may likewise be developed in cancer-growths, by conversion of their structural elements. The ])roliferous cysts which originate in cancers, bear on their inner surface cancerous growths—thus corresponding with the glandular growths which spring from the interior of cysts in the mammary and thyroid glands. These endogenous growths are often found in the alveoli of colloid cancer. Clusters of clavate, or flask-shaped villous processes, resembling those formed in the early stages of " dendritic vegetation " of villous cancer, spring from the waU of the alveolus. The origin and modes of development of these cysts—simple and proliferous—have been traced by Kokitansky, and shown to correspond with those of all other cysts; the only difl'erence being the source of the cyst-formation—here a cancerous element, while in respect of all other cysts it is an element of some natural tissue. Situation.—The preference of Cancer for different tissues and organs, ranges according to the following average scale. (Rokitansky.) " First, the uterus, the female breast, the stomach, the large in- testine, and especially the rectum ; next the lymphatic glands, especially as retro-peritoneal cancer-accumulation iu front of the vertebral column; hepatic, peritoneal cancer; bone-cancer ; cancer of the skin, and of the lips; of the brain; of the globe of the eye ; of the testes ; of the ovary; of the kidneys; of the tongue, and the oesophagus ; of the salivary glands and parotid;" to which I may add—without pretending to determine their relative places in the scale of frequency—cancet-