GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 342 on himself—tliere is no suicidal tendency. And, in all cases, this victim of self-excitement is occupied with some other person, or even a hideous animal, as the object of his intercourse, his aversion, or his fear. Then again, the delirium may be a boisterous excitement, usually in the younger and more vigorous drinker; or muttering rambling, in the old, worn-out sot. But—^unless in the last stage—the patient recognizes those about him, and can be made to understand, when spoken to. His attention being drawn away from his own imagination, the delirium passes off for a few moments. Thus, he puts ou.t his tongue, when requested; and notice, this muscular organ also trembles; or, he thrusts out his hand, when you ask to feel his pulse. Then, however, he lapses again into his previous state of wandering, busy incoherence—not unconsciousness. All the secretions point to the operation of a blood-poison. The tongue is commonly moist, and coated with a white creamy fur; it has also a flabby, sodden appearance, and may show teeth-marks along the edges. The breath is often fcBtid. Perspiration bedews the skin, which generally feels cold and clammy; but occasionally, a profuse, rank-smelling sweat breaks out, under the influence of the patient's own exertions, or from his opposition to any necessary re- straint. The pulse varies accordingly; usually frequent and feeble, loose or of low tension, it becomes sometimes more rapid, but of higher tension; yet in either case it is the pulse of prostration or of exhaustion. Other functions are perverted, although their derange- ments may be less constant. In a person who has lived more upon spirits, wine, or beer, rather than food, it is not surprising that the digestive organs should have got out of working order. Hence, the inappetency and nausea of the intemperate is often associated with a hickuppy rejection of food, and irregular action of the bowels—con- stipation, with scanty, hard, lumpy motions, alternating with a foetid diarrhoea. Probably the capricious action of the liver will account for these changes in the intestinal evacuations. In the course of a few days, the incessant, restless delirium may be exchanged for sleep; the patient dosing and awaking to dose again ; or he falls at once into a heavy slumber of some few hours' duration, from which he awakes quite a different man. No longer perhaps delirious, for the cerebral functions are so far restored, he still remains very weak; and not until digestion and nutrition are reinstated, by the reception of nourishing food, is the recovery completed. Or, instead of the attack passing off, and the penalty of intemperance being thus paid, as it may have been upon more than one previous occasion, the oblation may now be offered by the life of the victim, who, becoming weaker and weaker, sinks rapidly from sheer exhaustion ; or, still muttering to himself with lip- movements rather than any distinct articulation, he subsides into over- whelming coma, and dies. Is this the work of that cup of Lethe, so often drained to " drown trouble," for a while ; or has "the glass which cheers but not inebriates," proved an insidious foe ? After death, no lesions of the brain are discovered by anatomical examination, which can explain the clinical scene that has been wit- nessed during life. Generally, serous effusion is found to have taken place, on the surface of the brain,—under the arachnoid membrane, into the ventricles also, and throughout the substance of the organ: