840 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, \V. Adams.) above described. Ultimately, friction, passive motion, baths, and gal- vanism prove serviceable in completing the restoration of function. Slight talipes equinus -will perhaps yield to mechanical extension, without tenotomy. Relapse sometimes takes place after an apparent cure. This may be remedied by the judicious roapplication of extending apparatus; or a repetition of tenotomy may be necessary, followed by extension. Paralytic talipes equinus cannot be radically cured by tenotomy, nor by extension, which releases or overcomes the contracted muscles, but does not restore the action of the paralyzed antagonistic muscles. This condition depending sometimes on disease or congenital defect of the nervous centres, may be so far incurable. But, if the paralysis be incomplete, some restoration of power in the muscles affected may be gradually gained by the voluntary exercise of such muscles—^the gymnastic or " movement" method of treatment—as of the extensor muscles of the foot, in talipes equinus. The influence of electricity, as a means of exciting contractile power, offers a most valuable resource in these local paralytic affections. This method of treatment must, however, be judiciously conducted ; and is considered more particularly in works on Medical Electricity. Mechanical contrivances may also be used with advantage. The "artificial muscle," invented by Mr. Barwell, consists of an india-rubber band, adjusted so as to supply continued traction in the direction of the muscles affected. Similar principles and modes of treatment are applicable in other conditions of paralytic club-foot. (2.) Talipes Vams.—This is the ordinary form of congenital club- foot; but it also occurs, in a less severe form, as a non-congenital affection, from infantile paralysis. Fig. 460.* Fig. 461.t * Congenital talipes varus, in a child aged six months. Anterior view. Ankle-joint, and transverse tarsal joint, a a, are laid open, showing altered relations of astragalus and scaphoid bone; b, point for division of the anterior tibial tendon. (From W. Adams.) j. x j -d • f t Posterior view of the same foot, showing relative position of tendons.—a, l o.ni for division of the posterior tibial tendon, just above the inner malleolus; b, anterior tibial tendon, crossing tlie inn(^r malleolus, and inclining backwards, llic elevalu.n of tlie OB calcis, and position of its tuberosity beliind the hbula, and inclination ot tlie tendo-Achillis, towards the fibula side of the leg, are also shown, (i-rom