GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 298 completes the picture of prostration. At length the heart arouses, and the pulse rises, even to 150 per minute, beating feebly and irregularly; soon a scorching heat of skin is experienced, and flooding perspiration succeeds. The paroxysm is over. Throughout the course of such an attack, the temperature, as registered by the thermometer in the axilla, undergoes remarkable chauges. During rigor, and perhaps before, the temperature actually rises, ranging between 100 and lOG degrees. This increase of heat is exactly proportionate to the severity of the rigor. When sweating begins, the temperature falls, until a lower level is reached. But, although subject to notable fluctuations, it remains uniformly above the normal standard. Similar paroxysms may recur at periods varying from twelve to thirty-six hours ; or at about the same hour for three or four days ; or at irregular intervals. Differing in its symptoms and fitful character from an attack of inflammatory fever, the attack as described might be mistaken for an ague fit; but other significant symptoms soon supervene. The breath—as noticed by Berard and G-amgee—has a very peculiar odour, like that of sweetish liver, or of new hay. This, however, is an uncertain symptom, sometimes being absent, or present in febrile disorders which are not pycemic. But all the secretions show signs of a blood-poison undergoing elimination from the system, albeit ineffectually. The tongue becomes dry, and brown or blackish, while sordes encrustations appear on the teeth and lips. Rank perspi- ration, often profuse in the sweatings, ammoniacal urine, and a putrid diarrhoea of bilious, serous or mucous, and perhaps blood-stained dis- charges, alike compete, as it were, incessantly to throw off the poison ; but these drains only help to complete the exhaustion. The skin acquires a pallid, muddy hue, or becomes overcast with a dirty-yellow tinge, giving the face and conjunctivse a jaundiced appearance; and the abdomen may be tympanitic. Rapid emaciation soon reduces the patient to a shadow; and now —at about the end of a week or ten days—the wound may have, regained some secretion, but in the form of a thin, foetid, purulent fluid; while in the subcutaneous cellular texture of different parts, doughy and scarcely painful swellings may be foiind, or one or more of the larger joints, as the knees, elbows, ankles, or hips, are swollen and acutely painful, as if attacked with acute rheumatism; but loose fluctuation is perceptible—in fact, the joints affected are full of pus or purulent fluid. Perhaps these secondary ahscesses have formed in some one or miore of the internal organs, and are announced by symptoms peculiar to the organ affected. Thus, with cough, expectoi'atiou, and the signs of local pleuro-pneumonia, the lungs will probably be the seat of purulent deposits ; or, with pain, especially on palpation, over the region of the liver, and perhaps bilious vomiting or purging, that organ may be suspected ; or, with cerebral symptoms and coma, tbe brain would not be overlooked. Yet the absence of any local symptoms and functional derangement, as compared with what is discovered after death, is often remarkable; the viscera seeming to tolerate secondary abscesses, without much disaffection. The patient, who had been restless and sleepless, as in all febrile disorders, sinks into a low muttering delirium, and at length into a comatose state; or death takes place from sheer exhaustion, the prostration from pytemic blood- poisoning is so ovei'whelming.