SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS COXARIUS. 821 unattended with any destruction of the articular cartilage, which still caps the head of the bone. Otherwise, a section (Fig. 436) has the flattened, stunted appearance resulting from progressive destruction of the head and neck. liheiimatism of the hip-joint may be an acute or chronic affection. An acu,te attack of rheumatism will rarely settle in the hip-joint, as rheumatic synovitis, leaving other joints unaffected. The co-existence, therefore, of similar symptoms in other parts, will at once distinguish such an attack from scrofulous disease of the hip-joint. But the intense character of the pain, and tender, tense swelling in the groin, behind the great trochanter, or in both situations, are unlike the more passive state of the joint, in an early stage of caries. Chronic rheumatic arthritis or synovitis, when limited to the hip-joint, certainly bears a general resemblance to scrofulous disease of the joint, in a more advanced stage. But here, again, the character of the pain is even more distinctive; an aching, boring, gnawing pain, increased by motion, yet wearing off somewhat by exercise during the day, worse at night, and aggravated by exposure to variable climatic changes of cold and moisture. The irregular enlargement or deformity of the joint, from nodular ossific deposit, may not be so palpable as in rheumatic arthritis of other joints, as the knee ; but the peculiar rigidity or stiffness, and crackling or grating sound on moving the joint, can scarcely be overlooked in the examination. The patient's age will also be considered; although acute rheumatism may occur in child- hood, chronic rheumatic arthritis is usually a disease of mid-life. Disease of the hip-joint might be mistaken for disease of, or originating in, other parts, if the Surgeon's attention were directed exclusively to any one symptom. Thus, the pain in the inner side of the hiee might be referred to disease of that joint; unless the association of the other symptoms or signs of hip-joint disease be observed, and the absence of the characteristic swelling of synovitis, or of scrofulous caries, as affecting the knee-joint. But the possible co-existence of disease in both the hip and knee joints should not be forgotten as an occa- sional association. Lateral curvature of the spine is attended with obliquity of the pelvis, corresponding to the lumbar curve; the pelvis being raised on the side of concavity, and lowered from the opposite convexity. Yet there are no other signs of hip-joint disease. Psoas abscess presents a swelling, often of considerable size, in the groin,—an exaggerated appearance of the fulness seen in disease of the hip-joint. But this swelling can be reduced or returned into the abdomen by compression, aided by the recumbent position; and it has a marked impulse when the patient coughs or makes any straining effort; in both these respects differing from any inguinal fulness in connection with the hip-joint. Abscess near the hip-joint, but uncon- nected, ^ may be extra-pelvic or intra-pelvic ; and in either case, the diagnosis must be determined by a thorough examination around the joint, and by rectal exploration, coupled with palpation through the abdominal wall. Enlargement of the lursa under the psoas-iliac muscle forms a swelling in that situation, distinct from the capsule, when the two do not communicate; and the movements of the hip- joint are free and painless, except when the muscle is stretched by extension and rotation outwards of the thigh. More often, I think.