682 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. witliout presenting any discolouration. Beyond this external appear- ance, little or no enlargement of the bone accompanies the remarkable pain of which the patient complains; and there is an absence of any symptoms of joint-disease. Diagnosis.—The nature of this disease may, however, be mistaken for chronic rheumatism, or periostitis; or still more probably, for a neuralgic_ or hysterical affection. The iiersistence of the pain is the most distinctive character of circumscribed abscess of bone. Causes.—This abscess can, sometimes, apparently be refei-red to injury, or exposure to cold. The influence of tubercular disease is very uncertain. Early adult life seems to be the period most liable; but the ages in recorded cases have varied from 13 to 50. Males and females have been affected indiscriminately. Course and Terminations.—The abscess slowly enlarging, by the excavation and condensation of the surrounding bone, never attains a large size. Ultimately, it opens into the neighbouring joint, which thus becomes disorganized; and a disposition to this result is evinced by synovial distension and swelling from time to time, after exercise. Or the abscess may open externally, and discharge its contents with complete relief to the previous suffering. Cicatrization follows, the cavity filling up as in the termination of other abscesses; and the fibrous material which occupies the space, probably undergoing ossification, obhterates any remnant of the abscess. Treatment.—No topical applications or medicinal treatment have the slightest curative efficacy. But the operative proceeding proposed by Sir B. Brodie is at once simple and safe, affords immediate relief and a permanent cure. It consists in trephining the bone over the seat of abscess, and in thus giving vent to the pus. Chloroform having been administered, a crucial incision is made immediately over the painful spot externally, and extending down to the bone. A small trephine, having no projecting rim to oppose its entry, is then applied, and worked through the indurated bone; penetrating to some depth, and entering the cavity of the abscess. The circle of bone is detached and removed by an elevator or gouge, and the pus evacuated. Or a drop may appear, and the bone must be penetrated further by the gouge until the cavity is entered. Sometimes no pus is discovered on raising the circle of bone; the exposed surface should then be pierced in various directions to find a drop, and the oozing aperture freely enlarged with the gouge. Otherwise, an abscess may exist, but remain undiscovered. This misadventure happened to an experienced hospital Surgeon; the limb was amputated, and an abscess found at a small distance from the seat of perforation; showing that the removal of a small portion more of the bone would have preserved the limb. The preparation is in the Museum of St. George's Hospital. Only a small quantity of matter will issue in any case, the abscess itself being small. But the cavity having been fairly opened, the relief following the cessation of tension is instantaneous. A poultice or water-dressing will suffice during the course of reparation; which proceeding uninterruptedly, a permanent cure is established. An error of diagnosis even may be unimportant as regards the favourable result of this simple operation. For if the disease prove to be chronic ostitis—as happened in the case of one of Sir B. Brodie's patients—the removal of a piece of bone will relieve the pain, and may induce a healthier action.