311 HOSPITAL GANGEENE. coloured fluid, or wlien ruptured, it appears a thin coaguluni of blood, of a dirty brownisli-black: colour. During the formation of the vesicle a painful sensation in the sore is generally experienced, like that of a gnat stinging. Thus the earliest and most elementary phase of Hospital Gangrene may be vesicular; just as gangrene generally begins, the senile gan- grene in particular. The features peculiar to, and characteristic of, this so-called Hospital Gangrene, ensue siihsequenthj—its slimy slough, its rapid progress, its appalling devastation. I shall presently have to notice one character which foretells all the rest, I mean proiJagation by contagion, and possibly by infection also, whereby the disease runs through a whole ward—a whole hospital if unchecked—passing from bed to bed with the rapid strides of death. The local results to be anticipated are always sad, sometimes shocking. Among Blackadder's cases; in one, half of the cranium was denuded, the bones were black as charcoal, the integuments de- tached posteriorly to the second cervical vertebra; anteriorly, to the middle of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone; and this was originally only a superficial scalp wound. In another case, the in- teguments and cellular texture, on the anterior parts of the neck, were destroyed, and the trachea laid open, presenting a horrid spectacle. Among John Bell's cases, in one, the skin and muscles were carried away from the shoulder down to the bellies of the supinator muscles; and eventually, when the sloughing terminated, nothing seemed to be left of the arm except the bone, covered with a velvet-like surface of shining red flesh ; and this was originally only a narrow splinter wound on the middle of the outer side of the arm. Continuing our course down the body; in one case, a very slight and superficial wound of the thigh grew into a sore, at first no bigger than the palm of one's hand ; in two days as large as the crown of a hat; and in a week the whole skin of the thigh was destroyed, the muscles were sti'ipped of skin and fascia from the hip to the knee, the trochanter was almost laid bare, the hamstring muscles were exposed to a considerable extent, and all the muscles of the thigh dissected in a manner which no drawing could express. With even these cases in view, imagination will scarcely realize the ravages of this gangrene. A tattered skeleton, still held together by ligaments ? No; for the joints may be laid open exten- sively, and the knee, ankle, elbow, or wrist disarticulated. Constitutional Disorder.—Long before any such irreparable injury has been inflicted, the constitutional powers take affront. The period, however, at which the constitution begins to exhibit symptoms of iiTitation is extremely irregular, sometimes as early as the third or fourth day, sometimes as late as the twentieth. The countenance assumes an anxious or feverish aspect, the appetite is impaired, thirst succeeds, and the tongue is covered with a white mucus. Some constipation prevails at first, which ends in diarrhoea. The pulse is rather irritated than accelerated. The general symptoms, however, have an inflammatory or typhoid character, according as the causes of either predominate. When an inflammatory diathesis prevails, the system becomes gradually more irritated, until acute inflammation attacks the sore, an event that frequently happens about the end of the second week. At this period the pulse is frequent and sharp, and not uncommonly the patient has one or more shivering fits, sue-