240 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. recommended by the late Dr. Parry, of Bath, is altogether at variance with that which is so efficacious in cases of scurvy; and points, there- fore, to some essential difference between these two diseases, otherwise allied. The manifestations of both are unquestionably of blood-origin, yet essentially different in this respect; and not until Chemical Patho- logy has determined the blood-condition peculiar to Purpura will it be possible to interpret rightly the whole etiology of this disease. Its rational preventive and curative treatment will follow. CHAPTER VI. EHEDMATISM AND GOUT. Rheumatism.—Symptoms and Diagnosis.—^Rheumatism is manifested by an inflammation affecting some portion of fibrous tissue; the liga- ments and tendons around the joints are more commonly selected, sometimes the fascite, and very probably the pericardium and endocar- dium. This inflammation is specific. It is denoted, just as common inflammation is expressed, by redness, heat, pain, and swelling; but rheumatic inflammation is distinguished by not tending to the effusion of plastic lymph, nor to suppuration and gangrene; unless, indeed, some other texture besides fibrous tissue shares the inflammation, as synovial or serous membrane, when its products are the same as those of ordinary inflammation. Fever.—This local condition is preceded by and accompanied with inflammatory fever, in perhaps its highest degree,—contrasting, there- fore, in every way with fever of the typhoid type. A strong, rapid, hard pulse ; headache without any delirium, excepting when pericarditis or endocarditis ensues; acid perspirations and urine; these are the chief phenomena of rheumatic fever. And this fever not only precedes the local inflammation, but possibly runs its course without any such manifestation. Blood-pathology.—Rheumatic inflammation, whether exhibited by the joints, the fascia3, or the heart, is evidently due to the operation of some morbid blood-condition ; and for two reasons more especially. The very fact of the same inflammation affecting, possibly, "many parts"—e.g., many joints—simultaneously, points to the blood as its common cause. So also does the " metastatic " character of this in- flammation. Passing from one joint to another—from the shoulders to the elbows, or from the knees to the ankles, perchance back again to the joints first affected, and probably thence migrating to the heart; these and similar alternations of the same form of inflammation betoken some morbid condition of the blood, which, as a reservoir supplying in common all parts of the body, is turned on, as it were, more abundantly (by inflammation), now on this part, now on that. The "symmetrical" distribution of chronic rheumatism, in many cases, affecting as it does corresponding parts of either half of the body, is further evidence of there being a blood-disease in operation; while