642 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ment; thickening and stiffness also remaining for a considerable period. Passive motion and friction should be resorted to, in antici- pation of this result. Some deformity remains permanently, except in rarely perfect results. Separation of the lower epiijliysis of the radius has occurred in youth ; an injury simulating fracture, and requiring the same treatment. (2.) Fracture through the Bead of the Radius, occurring alone, has, I believe, never been met with. In conjunction with fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, and dislocation of both bones backwards, this form of injury has occurred in two instances, one of which I have represented. (See Fig. 232.) (S.) Fracture of the Neck of the Radius.—This injury, uncompli- cated with any other fracture or dislocation, must be exceedingly rare. Sir A. Cooper doubted its existence, and Hamilton adduces only one apparently certain instance—a specimen of Dr. Miitter's. As accom- panied with fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna, Velpeau and Berard have each contributed a case of this radial fracture, verified by dissection. But I allude to this form of injury, rather to guard against any error of diagnosis. The upper end of the lower fragment of the radius would probably be displaced forwards by the action of the biceps muscle, inserted into the tubercle, and extension of the arm would increase this displacement. Mobility and crepitus will be more or less perceptible, with flexion of the forearm, and loss of pronation and supination. Treatment should consist in a flexed position of the forearm upon the arm to relax the biceps, the application of a compress over the abutting lower fragment, and a dorsal splint; the whole being secured by a roller-bandage, and rested in a sling. Fractuee of the Carpal, Metacarpal Bones, and Fingers.—Simple and Compound Fractures of these bones may occur ; and with the usual signs of such Injuries. Direct violence is perhaps their most frequent cause ; but indirect force may also be the occasion of fracture, as by a blow given with, or received upon, the fist. Union generally results in some deformity, yet without much impairing the use of the part. The treatment will consist in the adjustment of the fragments, and their retention in position upon a gutta-percha or pasteboard splint, contrived according to the fracture. Compound fracture may require excision or amputation. But the removal of only the injured portion of the hand should ever guide and regulate any operative interference; the hand being a most valuable member in each of its several parts, and readily recovering from most injuries. Fractures of the Pelvis.—(1.) Fracture of the Innominate Bones. —Structural Conditions.—Commonly, the rami of the pubis and ischium are the seat of fracture (Fig. 244) ; sometimes, the line of fracture passes from above the acetabulum across the ilium; in various directions. (Fig. 244); or it may involve the acetabulum, Assuring its floor (Fig. 244), or fracturing its margin (Fig. 244). Sometimes the acetabulum is comminuted, or simply divided into its three original segments, and the head of the femur driven into the pelvic cavity (Fig. 244) ; or a portion of the margin being detached, dislocation backwards takes place. In one case, I found the pubio portion of the acetabulum nearly detached, and another fracture at