FRACTUIIE OF THE SHAFT OF THE FEMUR. t St. Bartholomew'b Hospital Mus., 0. 5. * St. George's Hospital Mus., 1, 145. C53 Fig. 260. t Fig. 259.^ ^reat trochanter; and a lower, the shaft of the femur. (Fig. 258.) This fracture is very rare, and it had been verified by dissection in only two cases; the one related by Sir Astley Cooper, the other by Mr. Stanley, but the specimen represented in the figure is an additional instance. (5.) Inter-trochanteric fracture, or between the trochanters, the line of fracture passing obliquely, from just above the small trochanter downwards and outwards, to below the great trochanter. (Fig. 259.) Bony union. The signs, causes, prognosis, and treatment of these trochanteric fractures are the same as in extra-capsul ar fracture of the neck. (6.) Fracture through summit of great trochanter.—I have found only one apparent specimen of this form of fracture, or perhaps separation of the epiphysis, as having occurred in a boy, aged fourteen, from direct violence—a fall on the hip. (See Diagram, p. 646.) Dr. Roddick, of Montreal, Canada, has, I believe, met with another instance of this form of trochanteric fracture. Compound Fracture of the nech of the Femur is a very formidable injury, resulting almost exclusively from gunshot wound. The Treatment is that for compound fracture, in general; hence, according to the condi- tion of injury, retentive appli- ances may be used, excision of the splintered portion, or amputation of the hip, resorted to. But experience has shown that any attempt to preserve the limb entire will be almost hopeless, and amputation utterly hopeless; excision, therefore, re- mains as the only justifiable resource, followed by retention of the limb in the best position for union. Fracture of the Shaft of the Femur.—Structural Conditions.—The situation of fracture is, commonly, in the middle third of the shaft, and its direction oblique downwards and inwards or outwards (Fig. 260); or downwards and forwards in the lower third; and varying in the upper third; transverse in children ; or the bone may be not unfrequently comminuted. Dis- placement of the lower fragment occurs, upwards and inwards, somewhat behind the upper fragment, and with some rotation outwards, as in the figure. This displacement is produced by the adductor muscles. The upper fragment is drawn or tilted forwards by the conjoined psoas and iliacusmuscles, inserted into the small trochanter; and outwards by the external rotators. i