GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 222 (h.) Veins are less liable to become causes of mortification; obstruc- tion to the return of venous blood from any part of the body, having a less important relation in this respect, than obstruction to the supply of arterial blood. Phlebitis induces coagulation of blood within the vein or veins in- flamed, and this obstruction is attended with oedematous swelling of the linib or part below. The swelling becomes tense and persistent, a condition bordering on gangrene. Phlegmasia dolens, in which the iliac and femoral veins, the main venous trunks of the limb, are inflamed, thus perils the leg below. Fibrous obliteration of a venous trunk is another such cause, once in a way, of tense anasarca. ^ Phleboliths or vein-stones, not unfrequently formed within various veins, more particularly the iliac, have a similar tendency. Aneurismal varix and varicose aneurism, resulting from a communi- cation between an artery and a companion vein, as from unskilful venesection at the bend of the elbow, is attended with venous engorge- ment, persistent and increasing, and oedematous swelling of the limb below, threatening gangrene. Prolonged pressure on a large vein, itself in a healthy state, is an extraneous cause of obstruction to the return of venous blood. Tumours may thus, indirectly, have this effect in relation to mortifica- tion. But, usually, pressure produces an entire arrest of the circula- tion, arterial and venous; as by the application of a tight bandage at the elbow, after venesection, causing gangrene of the hand; the con- striction of paraphimosis leads to gangrenous inflarnmation of the prepuce; and a hernial stricture induces gangrene of the included bowel or omentum. On any exposed part of the body, the influence of prolonged pressure is witnessed in the formation of ulcers, as bed- sores. The limitation of gangrene is no less characteristic of that which arises from obstruction in the course of a large vein, than from obstruc- tion of a main artery; the gangrene, in either case, extending possibly up to, and probably within, that situation. Thus both classes of causes, those pertaining to the arteries and those pertaining to the veins, concur; and differ from any constitu- tional cause, in relation to gangrene. But the limitation dependent on some venous causes, like that dependent on certain arterial causes, can scarcely he foreseen. Diseased conditions of veins are more often perplexing in this respect, as com- pared with any tendency to gangrene of traumatic origin from injury to a large vein. (c.) Capillaries.—Compression of these vessels is followed by gan- grene of the part, if thereby deprived of a due supply of blood. Inflammation, therefore, with lymph-production, and compression of the capillary vessels, reacts destructively upon the textures. More- over, inflammatory products, for the most part, are inherently short- lived. And especially during suppuration, the surrounding textures are dying, disintegrating, and being absorbed to make room for the new product—pus ; destruction and production here usually keep- ing pace. Hence the formation of abscess necessarily pre-supposes the death and absorption of the textures around; and co-extensively with the formation of pus, which now occupies their place. Sometimes,