555 DISEASES OF AETEEIES. other textures, are here inappropriate; the arterial system, in part at least of its extent, being- itself the seat of inflammation. Thus, stimu- lants, in their beneficial influence on the general circulation, might increase the exudation of fibrinous matter within the vessel inflamed, and induce gangrene. Stimulating applications also, as mercurial inunction, to promote absorption of the exudation would be similarly- hazardous. The treatment of gangrene, medicinally, and with reference to amputation, and also of any pysemic symptoms, presents nothing peculiar. ' Degenerations op Arteries.—In the course of life, the arterial system, more especially, undergoes certain degenerations of structure, which, apart from their intrinsic pathological interest, have great practical importance; both with regard to the diseases of organs and textures generally, and with reference to the consequences of such changes in the vessels themselves. But these degenerations of arterial texture relate primarily, and almost entirely, to the inner and middle coats of the vessels, the external or cellular coat remaining unaffected, or even passing through changes of an opposite character; this difference being due to the vascularity, and therefore higher nutrition, of the external coat. Degeneration leads to destruction of the inner and middle coats of an artery; hyper-nutrition of the external coat sup- plies a compensatory, albeit at length ineffectual, provision for the preservation of the continuity of the vessel. The degenerations to which arteries are subject are of three kinds: cartilaginous, atheromatous, and ossification. These deteriorative altera- tions of structure differ in, at least, five important particulars: the kind of matter deposited; its seat, with regard to the arterial coats; and the appearances presented; the changes which take place in the deposit, and in the arterial coats, with corresponding alterations of appearance; the vessels which are principally affected in the arterial system. (1.) Cartilaginous degeneration.—Cartilaginous patches are apt to form on the free surface of the inner or membranous coat, lining the arteries; partly in the aorta and large vessels, especially at the offset of branches, but principally in the smaller arteries, where these patches are more frequent and numerous. Commencing in the form of a substance having a semi-fluid or gelatinous consistence, and a pale yellow or reddish colour, this exudation from the membrane, or perhaps deposit from the blood-stream, appears as a layer of greater or less extent, upon the inner surface of the artery. With any such gelatinous layer may be associated other deposits, in which the sub- stance is more consistent, white and opaque, like boiled white of egg; and others, again, which present the appearance of cartilaginous patches. There seems, then, to be a gradual transition from the former to the latter or more complete condition of this degeneration. The lining membrane of the artery becomes so adherent to, or identified with, these patches, that they may be said to lie in contact with the middle coat. Certain changes may take place in connection with the cartilaginous plates. "When several such plates are grouped together, they become overlaid with a thin, pellucid membi^ane, as if a layer of the inner membranous coat was continued over them. The walls of the artery are thickened, and less elastic; and the inner surface of the