SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 806 Fig. 419. Fig. 420. the leg should be closed so as to closely engage the leg, but not to prevent a free return of blood. Now reverse the loose extremities of the strips of adhesive plaster, bring them over the collar and upon the leg, and secure by a few turns of the bandage. Press the lower collar down into the plasters which engage it, and then secure the upper band about the thigh. This can be done by taking one piece of plaster behind and another in front, at points exactly opposite upon the cir- cumference of the limb, and reversing them in such manner as to bring equal traction upon the collar posteriorly and anteriorly, which will balance it so that its edges will not come in contact with the thigh at any point,—thus to avoid pressure. The remaining strips of plaster can be reversed without causing the edges of the roller to make pressure at any point, and all are then secured with a roller-bandage. Thus, the instrument is fastened at its upper and lower ends, ready for extension and counter-extension. This is effected by means of the key and rachet on the bars of the instrument. (Fig. 419.) The amount of extension should be determined and regulated by the perfect relief from all pain in the joint, and on pressure or concussion; avoiding unnecessary tension on the lateral ligaments. This degree of extension having been obtained, the instru- ment is locked by the slide and retained there." The ankle-joint may be treated in like manner, by Sayre's extending-instrument, similarly applied by means of longitudinal slips of adhesive plaster, secured in position by a roller-bandage; and then the application of the instru- ment. (Fig. 420.) Lastly, whatever be the termina- tion of scrofulous caries, a starched landage is an exceedingly useful support. If the disease be arrested, leaving only some cedematous sv\ ell- ing of the joint, the uniform pressure of this support will aid in reducing the swelling, and the patient can get about on crutches—supposing the lower limb to be affected—with the benefit of air and exercise. If an- chylosis have ensued, or a new joint as the result of dislocation, the support of a starched bandage will be equally advantageous. The period of time necessary for the use of some support to the seat of disease is always considerable ; many months, possibly years. Other local treatment—from first to last—may be regarded as com- paratively unimportant. Scrofulous disease of a joint cannot be arrested by any depletory measures, and in proportion as they reduce the general health such measures are positively injurious. Local Uood-lctting, by a few leeches, may sometimes prove beneficial in the incipient or vas- cular stage of the disease. But the repeated loss of blood would be injurious. Counter-irritation, by blisters, setons, etc., has an equally restricted applicability. The discharge and pain they occasion more than counterbalance any good resulting from their derivative action, especially in children. If the disease subsides, with cedematous swelling.