492 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Surgeon. 42. Wardrop. 48. Broca. Artery affected. Date. Result. IV. Subclavian only. Innominate. Ditto. 1827. 1862. Recovered. Much benefit. Eecovered. Much benefit. Remarks. Lived two years. Lived seven months. (2.) Aneurisms of right carotid, and stibclavian, arteries, at their origin—the root of the neck.—Ligature of tlie innominate artery. This operation, in principle applicable to either of these aneurisms, is impracticable in some cases ; and has been fatal in its result with regard to all the cases in which it has hitherto been practised, except in one instance. Eleiven such cases have been collected by Mr. Erichsen, the operation having been commenced but' not completed in four other cases. Ten of the cases were fatal. Of these, eight were cases of subclavian aneurism, the remaining two aneurism of both the subclavian and carotid arteries. In the former cases, death took place in periods varying from the fifth day to the sixty-seventh day; and, with scarcely an exception, from secondary hgemorrhage. In one case only, on the eighth day, death resulted from iiLflammation of the aneurismal sac, luug, and pleura. In the two cases of double aneurism, death occurred on the ninth and thirty-fourth days, but in both from accidental causes. The eleventh, and only successful case, was by Dr. Smith, of New Orleans, for a subclavian aneurism. In the four incompleted cases, the operation-difficulties were apparently the large size of the aneurism, or the diseased state of the innominate. Carotid aneurism alone, at root of the neck.—Distal ligature of the artery. Six cases are recorded by Norris, in four of which the result was successful. This proportion is suflB.cient to justify a repetition of the operation, under favourable circumstances. In one case of traumatic aneurism of the carotid—at the root of the neck— arising from a stab in that situation, Mr. Syme performed the old operation for Aneurism ; that of puncturing the sac, feeling with the finger in the sac for the aperture which controlled pulsation, then turning out the coagulum from the sac laid freely open, and securing the vessel by ligature above and below the aperture. Subclavian aneurism alone, at the root of the neck—i.e., situated either internal to, or between, the scaleni.—Distal ligature of the artery, in the third part of its course. This operation has been pro- posed, but I am not aware that it has ever been practised. The axillary artery below the clavicle, under the pectoral muscles, was ligatured by Dupuytren for subclavian aneurism; and this distal operation proved fatal, on the ninth day, from hasmorrhage. Amputation at the shoulder-joint, with, therefore, distal ligature of the artery, was suggested by Sir William Fergusson; the presumed advantage being, that the tumour might then be much more under the control of pressure, as the supply of blood below would no longer be requisite. This suggestion has not yet been tried; except in a case by Mr. Spence, of Edinburgh, and with a temporarily favourable result.