312 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ceeded by great increase of heat, seldom or never terminating in a profuse perspiration. The cold fit is sometimes followed by a bilious mtestmal evacuation, with mitigation of the febrile disorder. If the local mischief be not arrested, weakness increases daily to exhaustion; the fever loses its inflammatory character, and unless the patient be cut off by hfemorrhage, he falls # victim to extreme debility. When the disease has a typhoid character, the pulse is small and frequent, the appetite and strength gradually fail, not unfrequently diarrhoea supervenes, and the patient at length sinks, retaining his mental faculties to the last. Causative Belation of the Local and Constitutional Conditions.— Whether does the constitutional disorder or the local disorganization precede ? What is the order of succession; which is the cause; which the effect ? Surgeons are neai'ly equally divided on this question; but the weight of experience decidedly preponderates in favour of the local origin of hospital gangrene. (1.) Local Origin.—Blackadder affirms—that in no single instance which he had an opportunity of observing, did the constitutional symptoms precede the local; unless the case be held an exception, where a stump became affected after amputation had been performed, on account of the previous effects of the disease.—That the morbid action could almost always be detected in the wound or sore previously to the occurrence of any constitutional affection.—That in several instances the constitution was not affected until some considerable time after the disease had manifested itself in the sore.—That when the disease was situated on the lower extremities, the lymphatic vessels and glands in the groin were observed to be in a state of irritation, giving pain on pressure, and were sometimes enlai'ged before the constitution showed evident marks of derangement.—That the con- stitutional affection, though sometimes irregular, was in many cases contemporary with the second, or inflammatory stage.—That when a patient had more than one wound or sore, it frequently happened that the disease was confined to one of the sores, while the other remained perfectly healthy, and this even when they were at no great distance from each other. To these five arguments, three more may be gathered from Wel- bank's well-known essay, forming so much additional support in favour of the local origin of this disease. That part of the diseased surface may clear off and granulate, while gangrenous disorganization continues progressive at the opposite edge; that, however advanced the sore, it not unfrequently becomes healthy, and rapidly so, on the application of appropriate measures; and that the symptoms of general disturbance also which supervene are promptly relieved by measures that control the local condition. Partly at variance with these facts and arguments, is the experience of Guthrie; that the febrile symptoms do seem to follow the appear- ance of the local alteration, is, in many cases, indisputable ; that they precede or accompany the local symptoms in many other cases, is in- disputable ; and that the disease in a mild state, although capable of committing much mischief, is neither preceded nor followed by febrile or constitutional symptoms, cannot be doubted. (2.) Constitutional Origin.—On the other hand, there are, or have been, those who affirm tliat the constitutional disorder generally, at