285 ERYSIPELAS. Any sncli doubt, and disputation, seem to have arisen from one oversight—that of associating erysipelas, as a diffuse inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture of the head and face 07ily, with erysipelatous inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture of any other part of the body. The former is decidedly infectious ; the latter, apart from co-operating causes, less decidedly so. According to some authors, the pathology of erysipelas is en- larged so as to include almost any diffuse and spreading inflam- mation ; as when arising from the contagion or local introduction of decomposing animal or septic matter; e.g., the cellulitis proceeding from a poisoned wound; with which may be associated diffuse phle- bitis and diffuse lymphatitis. But thus would be placed in the same class, diseases which, having the resemblance of appearance, as inflam- mation, yet differ in their pathology, especially with regard to their infectious or non-infectious nature. Simple or Cutaneous Erysipelas.—The inflammation is located principally in the papillary layer and rete malpighii of the skin. (Billroth.) Commencing in the integument of the head or face, simple erysipelas exhibits the following characteristic appearances:— On the nose, either cheek, the margin of either eai", or sometimes on one of the temples, a slight blush of redness becomes visible, accompanied with stiffness rather than swelling of the shin; which has lost only its wonted suppleness, and acquired a shiny roseate hue. A tingling, burning sensation also, rather than pain, is experienced, and hence the popular name of this inflammation—St. Anthony's Fire. The redness of erysipelas assumes different tints; usually being more scarlet, rather than purple ; but of whatever tint it may be, it disappears entirely on pressure, and returns immediately the finger is withdrawn—so free and persistent is the determination of blood. The tension also of the skin is readily perceived on passing the finger from the sound to the inflamed part. An abrupt margin defines this redness and this stiffness ; both are circumscribed by an irregular line. The inflammation, thus mapped out, spreads continuously: erysipe- las is, par excellence, a creeping skin affection; and while it diverges, creeping like water spilt on an impervious surface, the skin becomes swollen, some serum is effused into the subcellular texture also, and this swelling is soft and diffused. Nature makes no adequate repara- tive effort to limit and circumscribe the serum with lymph. Serous effusion, therefore, proceeds, and the swelling increases—so much so as to close the eyelids, distend the cheeks, disfigure the features, and, at length, obliterate all traces of personal identification. " What great events from little causes spring: " that trifling red nose, and now this defaced visage ! Terminations.—At this stage of the inflammation its course is sometimes arrested, the redness fades, the swelling subsides; and this termination by resolution occurs with, or without, shedding of the cuticle, in silky scales, or a branny powder, at the end of three or four days. In many instances, however, the issue is less speedy. Serous effusion, having continued for a period varying from twelve to thirty-six hours, elevates the cuticle into vesicles, or larger blebs, exactly like those which follow a burn or scald. These semi-trans- parent and yellowish, or sometimes livid blisters, soon burst, and