737 DISLOCATIONS OP THE SCAPULA. and a rapid inclination downwards and outwards of the line of the clavicle, its outer end being felt in the axilla. Inability to raise the arm to a right angle with the body, will generally be found symptomatic of either form of dislocation ; but the arm can be moved, passively, in certain directions. Thus, the range of motion is most free in the upward dislocation; whereas, in downward dislocation, under the acromion, the arm can be moved pretty freely backwards and forwards, but not outwards; and, with dislocation under the coracoid process, the arm cannot be moved inwards and upwards. Pain accompanies any opposed motion of the arm. Causes.—A fall on the shoulder would seem to be the usual occasion of these dislocations; the force being applied upon the top or back of the shoulder, in upward dislocation; and upon the clavicle, to produce dislocation downwards. Thus, in one instance of the latter displace- ment, a horse trod upon the shoulder; and in another, the accident occurred to a child, from an attempt to support a great weight upon the top of the collar-bone. But the upward displacement may be caused by force from below; in one case having been produced by a bolt thrust up from under the clavicle. Treatment.—Reduction is easily accomplished by drawing the shoulders backwards and outwards, the Surgeon placing his knee between them, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Considerable difiB.- culty will, however, be experienced in preventing the recurrence of dis- placement. A pad in the axilla, and the application of a bandage, as for fractured clavicle, constitute the most effectual retentive apparatus. Direct compression is available only in dislocation upwards. Many weeks should be allowed to elapse before this treatment is discontinued. Some deformity almost always remains, but with little loss of power in the movements of the arm. Dislocation of Both Ends of the Clavicle has been known to occur, simultaneously; but it must be placed among the rarities of Dislo- cations. DiSLOCATroN OF THE ScAPULA.—The lower angle of the scapula some- times projects, apparently having slipped from under the edge of the latissimus dorsi muscle, which there crosses the scapula. I have seen one such case, on the right side. Liston attributed this displacement to the arm being " suddenly raised above the head to an unusual ex- tent." The vertebral border of the shoulder- blade projects to a great extent, and its inferior angle is so loosely connected to the chest, that the fingers may be pushed up between the ribs and the bone halfway to the glenoid cavity. Some time since, Mr. Edmund Owen exhibited to the members of the Harveian Medical Society a boy who was the subject of this condition on both sides. Indeed, the shoulder-blades looked like rudi- mentary wings. This appearance was well marked in a case which Mr. Mac- Cormac met with, as here shown. (Fig. 342.) Mr. Owen refers this 3 B