GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 324 JThQ post-mortem appearances are analogous to those of pyaemia, but exhibited principally by diffuse cellular suppurations. Billroth regards the infection from dissection-wound as a form of pyemia, arising from the absorption of septic animal matter, with lymphatitis, but without phlebitis. Conditions of the dead hody most infective.—Putridity must not be supposed to signify an infective state of the body; the less advanced in decomposition, the greater the risk, not unfrequently, from the inoculation of the animal matter, and a fresh subject is often the most dangerous. The bodies of persons who have died in certain diseases are specially infectious; notably in blood-diseases which were attended with diffuse inflammation, of which erysipelas is the type, and particularly puerperal peritonitis. Hence, the peril of dissection, or post-mortem examination, in such cases ; the serous effusions in the cellular texture, or into the peritoneum, being highly infectious, the slightest prick or scratch suffices for inoculation, and the merest abrasion which might otherwise escape detection, the virulent fluid will find out. Dead matter resulting from mortification, as a small spiculum of necrosed bone soaked with pus, may prove equally noxious. But, as already observed, the constitutional state of the person, thus inoculated, determines the liability of systemic infection. Treatment.—Local measures consist in the prompt removal or destruction of the animal matter introduced. The immediate appli- cation of a piece of string, tape, or other ligature around the finger, above the wound, may prevent the poison entering the circulation. Any bleeding should then be encouraged, thus to cleanse the wound; as by steeping the part in lukewarm water, or by exposing it to a stream of water. But the wound had better be well sucked, and then cauterized by a firm touch with nitrate of silver. A drop of nitric or snlphuric acid is also very efficacious. Subsequently, inflammation or suppuration should be met, as nsual, by free incision and poultice, the hand being supported in a sling. Constitutional treatment com- prises stimulants, tonics, anodynes, a nourishing diet, and fresh air., In the event of lymphatic abscesses, early incisions must be made, to prevent the buiTowing of matter. After recovery, the finger may long remain swollen and stiffened; a state of chronic inflammation or its result, which must be managed accordingly. Malignant Pustule, or Chaebon, is also communicated by contagion^ the poisonous matter being caught directly from beasts, or their re- mains ; for the disease is not propagated apparently by the human species, from one individual to another. Local Condition.—Soon after any accidental inoculation with the morbid matter, a stinging sensation is felt, and a red point appears, hardly elevated above the skin. Then, at this point, the cuticle rises into a blackish vesicle, which speedily runs into a slough, surrounded by an cedematous swelling, having a violet tinge, and spreading rapidly in all directions. Occasionally, neither vesicle nor pustule arises, only swelling. "With obvious swelling, however, a sensation of tension, rather than pain, is experienced. Should several pustules arise, the disease is proportionately more perilous, and especially if situated on the neck or face; for then the swelling may be so considerable as to threaten suffocation or congestion of the brain. Indeed, malignant pustule is not unlike carbuncle in appearance, but differs from it in