SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 804 Fig. 417.* articular cartilage becomes affected and tbe bone exposed. The two sensitive osseous surfaces meeting together and being subject to attri- tion and pressure by spasmodic action of the muscles, the starting pains are much aggravated. The ligaments share this destructive pro- gress of the disease, and give way; the ahscess within the joint bursts through the synovial membrane, and at length finds its way to the surface, with sinuous openings around the joint. The head of the bone, altered in size and shape, and no longer restrained by ligamentous connections, undergoes dislocation, in whatever direction the disease may facihtate displacement, and subject to the action of the muscles. In the remarkable case here figured, from disease of the knee- joint, the tibia is dislocated backwards, and to a right angle with the femur. (Fig. 417.) The joint has now become irrepar- ably disorganized; but anchylosis may take place without dislocation, or an imperfect joi/nt form after dislocation, the bone remaining in its new locality. Either of these reparative terminations, in the course of nature, are rare. Constitutional disturbance of the most severe kind accompanies the destructive course of this disease ; and the patient probably sinks ulti- mately from long-continued pain and sleeplessness, purulent discharge, and the night sweats of hectic. The concurrence of scrofulous disease in other organs than the joints must not be overlooked in our prognosis. Thus, the lungs or mesenteric glands may be affected with tubercular deposit; or tuber- cular meningitis ensue, with effusion into the ventricles of the brain. And the social state of the individual should be taken into account; scrofulous disease arising and progressing far more readily in the poor and needy, than in the afiluent classes of society. Treatment.—Local appliances are of subordinate importance to con- stitutional treatment, yet they are co-operative in arresting scrofulous caries and the reparation of its destructive consequences. In the first place, absolute rest of the limb is an essential condition throughout this disease ; in the earliest stage to arrest its progress, sub- sequently to relieve pain and induce anchylosis. Due regard should also be had to the position most favourable for the future use of the limb, in the event of this issue. Such rest, and position, can only be secured by means of a suitable splint. A leather or gutta-percha splint moulded to the joint answers best, generally. But the splint mu&b be of sufiicient length to fix the limb entirely, and check any contraction of the muscles which would affect the joint. Thus, in scrofulous disease of the hip-joint, a gutta-percha splint should be applied so as to embrace one side of the pelvis and two-thirds of the circumference of the thigh, and extend from the short ribs to below the knee. The limb should be in a line with the trunk, or bent only slightly forwards. For the knee- joint, two lateral splints are preferable; supporting two-thirds of its circumference, and extending from the middle of the thigh to the middle * Guy's Hospital Mu?., 1345.