SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 652 ♦ St. George's Hospital Mub , 1. 182b. Pig. 25G.» Fig. 257.» only objection I have ever experienced in the ase of this retentive apparatus, has been, not as to its thorough efficiency, but the pain occasioned by pressure over the trochanter, owing to the contused state of the integuments in most cases. This in- convenience, however, is temporary, and can be overcome by using an interrupted splint. Impacted fracture should be treated in the same way; although the splint must be applied only for retention, as the limb cannot be ex- tended to its original length. Fracture partly with- in, and partly without, the capsule, forms a structural condition which presents a combination of the signs relating to fracture of the neck of the femur, in both situations. But such cases partake more of the character of intra-capsular fracture; although, to be on the safe side in regard to treatment, retention of the limb in position, by means of the long splint, should always be the rule of practice. Fractures relating to the Trochanters are extra-capsular ; but there are four forms of such fractures, specimens of which I have met with. (3.) Extra-capsular fracture of the nech of the Femur, impacted; with fracture of hoth trochanters, which are split ofi by the neck of the bone being driven into the cancellous tissue. (Fig. 256, front view; Fig. 257, back view. The peculiar lines of fracture here indicated are omitted from the diagram- matic view of Fractures of the Femur, p. 646.) There was slight eversion and shortening of the limb. Death occurred from pneumonia in about two months. No union of the fragments had taken place. This uncommon form of fracture was produced by a fall on the hip, in the person of a man aged 81. (4.) Fracture throiigh the great tro- chanter. — The direction of fracture through the great trochanter is a line passing obliquely upwards and outwards from the lower portion of the neck, like an ordinary extra-capsular fracture, but instead of traversing the neck completely, it passes through the base of the great trochanter, thus separating the femur into two fragments : an upper, consisting of the head, neck, and + St. Bartholomew's Hospital Mus., C. 131. Bony union, seven months after injury, in a man aged 85 years. Fig. 258. t