398 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGKRY. extensive, and gangrene not inevitable; what then ? Various patho- logico-anatomical conditions—Zess than the whole substance of a limb being involved—are defined in surgical works; respecting which forms of injury experience is said to justify amputation, in the first instance, considering the probable supervention of gangrene. But this event can never be foretold with absolute certainty in different conditions of injury; the resources of reparation and the reserve constitutional power of different individuals being unknown. Having regard, there- fore, to the preservation of the limb—in cases short of its irreparable destruction—the actual supervention of gangrene is the only ground of assurance as to the urgent necessity for amputation. This compromise between limb and life may be thus stated:— whenever a limb is destroyed, by injury, and life would be perilled by the inevitable supei'vention of gangrene, (primary) amputation is im- perative ; whenever a limb is not entirely destroyed, the rule should be, to give the limb its chance of recovery, by waiting for gangrene; but in that event (secondary) amputation becomes necessary, and further delay would peril life, without the compensating probability or pos- sibility of preserving the limb. Duly weighing both these conditions, the Surgeon will ever be prepared to estimate the urgency of amputa- tation in any particular form of contused or lacerated wound—other- wise than when destructive of the whole substance of a limb. The time also, as well as the conditions, for the performance of amputation is a very important consideration. Amputation for injury, in general, is commonly divided into Primary and Secondary; the primary being that which is performed during the first twenty-four or thirty-six hours,—before inflammation has commenced; the secondary being amputation performed after that period,—after the supervention of inflammation, and, at a later period, suppuration. Amputations performed in the intervening period, between twenty-four hours and inflammation, are sometimes designated intermediate. With regard to contused and lacerated wounds, the proper time for amputation under different circumstances, as expressed by the terms primary and secondary, has reference to the performance of the operation before or after the occurrence of gangrene; in accordance with the rules already laid down. Part for Amimtation.—In the event of gangrene, the seat of amputa- tion, or the portion of limb to be removed, should not be determined by waiting for the formation of the line of demarcation between the living and dead parts. Amputation must be performed at once, and sufficiently high above the seat of injury to prevent the recurrence of gangrene in the stump. The foregoing considerations relate ex- clusively to purely traumatic gangrene. Spreading traumatic gangrene being the local manifestation of some morbid condition of the blood, its supervention is so far less likely to be intercepted by the primary amputation of the injured part. On the other hand, gangrene appear- ing in the stump, would frustrate the intention of the operation with regard to the preservation of life. When spreading gangrene has supervened, the Surgeon is placed in this dilemma in regard to the part for amputation:—if the operation be performed without waiting for the line of demarcation, gangrene will probably reappear in the stump, and death ensue; if the operation be postponed, for this pur- pose, the gangrene spreads rapidly up to the trunk, and then death is