266 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. parents, is not necessarily transmitted to the offspring; who may in- deed be singularly free from any manifest constitutional syphilitic taint, or any other evidence of impaired constitutional vigour—as scrofula. Syphilitic infection of the ovum appears so to lower its vitality, as to entail many morbid consequences. Abortion may ensue, at a variable period of pregnancy, the ovum never reaching maturity. Several con- secutive miscarriages may thus take place, until the maternal or paternal state of infection is rectified or eradicated ; when the mother will probably retain the foetus for the full period of pregnancy—nine months, and then give birth to a living child. From the time of birtli, the infant may exhibit symptoms of secondary syphilis, and present a cachectic, weakly, dwindled, and as it were, aged appearance. Or, free from any secondary symptoms at birth, they supervene in a variable period—a few weeks, commonly between the second and eighth week —or, possibly, not until adult age. But after the eighth month, Trous- seau aflBrms that the disease very rarely appears. The mode of communication would appear to take place in either of four ways, or in their combinations:—(1) From constitutional syphilis in the father, and without communicating any apparent infection to the mother; (2) from constitutional syphilis in the mother; (3) from both parents; (4) from systemic infection of the mother, through a primary sore—a chancre contracted during pregnancy—the embryo having been quite healthy at the time of conception. And the liability of the foetus to infection is much greater during the earlier period of pregnancy than in the later months; an analysis of eleven cases by Diday tending to the conclusion that, after the end of the seventh month, syphilis acquired by the mother is not transmitted to the offspring. But neither parent may exhibit any symptoms of syphilis, the disease having been latent for perhaps a period of many years. (Bumstead.) The important relation of these modes of transmitting syphilis to offspring will be obvious, both in regard to treatment and to medico- legal inquiry. Many other questions pertaining to hereditary syphilis remain open to doubt, and are disputed. Firstly, whether a mother, pregnant with a syphilitic foetus, the offspring of a father having the constitutional disease, can be infected through it without herself having had primary syphilis ? Ricord answers this question in the affirmative, and the pos- sibility of this mode of maternal infection, is supported by a large amount of evidence collected by Mr. J. Hutchinson. Secondly, whether a wet-nurse, having the constitutional disease, can infect the child she suckles, through the medium of the milk ? Yes, says Ricord; no, says Acton. Thirdly, conversely, whether a syphilitic child can infect a healthy nurse ? No, say Ricord and Acton. But Hunter and Law- rence relate cases in which several nurses have been thus infected, in succession; and two of whom transmitted the disease again to their own offspring. Evidence in support of the affirmative of both the two latter questions, may be found in " Ranking's Half-yearly Abstract," vol. iv. As to the mode of communication by suckling; any crack or abrasion on the nipple, or on the Hp or mouth of the child, will facilitate the transmission. But, according to Dr. Colles, mere contact, without any excoriation, will suffice. Symptoms.—Congenital syphilis is not indicated by any constant