SrECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 508 Monteiro's case was a large false aneurism in the lower and right side of the abdomen ; the patient dying—on the tenth day—from secondary haemorrhage. Ligature of the Common Iliac.—This operation has not been uni- formly fatal in its results. In 32 cases, collected by Dr. Stephen Smith, of ISTew York, 25 died, 7 only recovered. But this list comprised ligature of the artery for all causes, including aneurism. Thus, (1) for arrest of haBmorrhage in wounds, or in surgical operations, 11 cases, 10 deaths; (2) for aneurism, 15 cases, 10 deaths; (3) for pulsating tumour mistaken for aneurism, 4 cases, 1 recovery; (4) to obviate haemorrhage in an operation in one case, and in an aneurism by anas- tomosis in another, making 2 cases, both of which died. The causes of death were noted in 19 cases; gangrene in only 3, exhaustion 8, haemorrhage 6, and peritonitis 2. Seven more cases may be added to Dr. Smith's table; 5 of which were fatal, and 2 successful—one by Bickersteth, of Liverpool, the other by Syme, in which he laid open the sac of an iliac aneurism, and tied the common, external, and internal iliac arteries opening into it. Out of the total number of cases of ligature of the common iliac, 39, 29 have died, and 10 only recovered; in 9 the peritoneum was wounded, and of these 8 were fatal. Aneurismal Varix of the Abdominal Aorta and Vena Cava.—Among the uncommon situations of Aneurismal Varix, that in which the abdominal aorta and vena cava are engaged is most rare. One such case is recorded by Mr. Syme, as having Fig. 137.* occurred spontaneously at the bifurcation of the aorta, I am enabled to verify this pathological condition by an allied specimen from the rich collection in St. Thomas's Hos- pital. (Fig. 137.) An aneurism the size of a hen's egg, and lined by a thin layer of fibrine, is situated at the point of bifurca- cation of the abdominal aorta. The left common iliac vein, which is greatly dilated, opens directly into it, and has no dii'ect communication with the inferior cava. The superior mesenteric artery is completely obliterated for a considerable length, where it, with the mesentery, is converted into an inseparable) brawny mass. From a soldier, fetat. thirty-eight, whose left leg was crushed by a horse about three years before admis- sion. He appeared to have quite recovered from the injury. Nine months before his death he complained of pain in his loins ; a' week subsequently, pain and enlargement of the leg, commencing in the foot, followed bathing. The veins of the leg and scrotum commenced dilating about, four months before death, when they were very large. A tourniquet was applied to the abdominal aorta for seventeen hours, with an interval of half an hour ; he did not complain of much discomfort, but sickness and hiccup ensued. Death occurred apparently from exhaustion. The * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., Y. 156.