389 CONTUSION. the ulnar nerve at the elbow. Blood extravasated in considerable quantity may still present the appearance of bruise, but have also the fluid and fluctuating character of an abscess. A hard circumscribed boundary can also perhaps be felt. Puncture with a grooved needle will determine a doubtful diagnosis. The discolouration of contusion bears a general resemblance to gangrene, but the temperature and sensibility of the part are retained, at least in a higher degree than in that condition. When extravasation of blood has taken place, deeply, and possibly into internal organs, it is declared by functional clisturh- ances of a less definite character, and which of course vary with the part to which the contusion extends. Compression of the brain, for example, may arise from cerebral contusion and extravasation. Causes of Contusion.—External force, in the shape of crushing pres- sure or a blow, may directly- produce contusion; or the force may be applied indirectly, at some distance from the part affected, as by a fall on the feet, bruising the legs. But the state of the textures very much. predisposes to this kind of lesion. The elastic firmness and comparatively bloodless condition of the flesh of a prize-fighter, who has undergone " training," contrasts favourably with the flabby, bloated face of one who is "out of condition,"as that of the intemperate debauchee, which is ever bordering on ecchymosis. Concussion often accompanies contusion; parts distant being shaken, as well as the part at the immediate seat of injury being crushed, by the violence of the force applied. Hence, concussion is-, more often, produced in contusion from indirect violence. Thus, the minute vessels may be concussed or shaken far beyond the range to which actual contusion extends. A fall from a height on the feet, causing contusion, may be attended also with concussion- of the vessels, even up to the trunk ; as denoted by interstitial spots of extravasated blood, in a case recorded by Sir B. Brodie.. Concussion of the nerves, apart from actual contusion, is also an important distinction, which Billroth notices, in relation to parts distant from the immediate seat of injury. For example, dangerous symptoms may be produced simply by con- cussion of the cardiac and pulmonary plexuses of nerves, in connection with contusion of the thorax. And reflex actions of the concussed nerves may possibly have their additional effects; as witnessed in the syncope or faintness induced by a blow on the epigastric region of the abdomen. The consequences of concussion, rather than contusion, affecting the nerves, are uncertain; resulting in various forms of paralysis, both motor and' sensory, with atrophy and degeneration of the muscles involved. The operation of contusion localhj is identified with the course of this lesion; while its effects constitutionally are those which arise from other forms of Injury, and Hsemorrhage ; but the syncope arising from contusion is due more to the injury, itself possibly extensive and severe, than to the extravasation of blood. Therefore, the shock of injury, i as manifested by the nervous system, predominates, rather than collapse; or tetanus may supervene. Course.—The natural course of Contusion is twofold; inclining, on the one hand, to suhcutaneovjs reparation; on the other, to sloughing, the formation of an open wound, and repair by the process of suppura- tive granulation. Thus, no perceptible alteration may take place in a contused part, the bruised appearance remaining, for a variable period;