100 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. caused partly by distension of the blood-vessels in the part inflamed, but principally by the scrum effused. The incisions should be made in extent and depth according as either condition of tension predominates. In chcmosis, the sub-conjunctival collection of serum suggests the kind of incision necessary. In glossitis, vascular distension is relieved by scarification over the upper surface of the tongue, rather than by one free incision. In phlegmonous erysipelas, both sources of tension are relieved by incisions in different parts of the skin, as the chief seat of vascular distension, and extending down to the subcellular texture, which is engorged with serum. In all cases, however, the requisite length and depth of incisions must be determined practically, by their effect in relieving tension. A poultice is applied, but after the cessation of hemorrhage, lest more blood be lost than would be desirable. If the bleeding return, the poultice must be removed, and strips of dry lint placed in the bottom of each incision u.p to the surface, and a light pad over all, retained by a bandage; with the limb or part in a elevated position. After a few hours, the bandage and pad may be removed, and a poultice re-applied, over the strips of lint, which should not be withdrawn nntil they separate with suppuration. Incisions for the discharge of pus and slough will be considered in a subsequent part of the treatment of inflammation. Antiseptic dressings are eligible in the treatment of inflammation, only when attended with an open surface. Their nature and modes of application are explained in the treatment of Wounds. Irritants.—Blisters, in the form of cantharides plaster or the blistering fluid ; rubefacients, as the mustard poultice ; setons, issues ; caustics, as nitrate of silver, potass-fusa, the mineral acids, iodine, mercury, tartar-emetic, croton oil, burning heat or the actual cautery, and other strong irritants, are remedial measures of more or less value in chronic forms of inflammation. Their intensity of action varies, but their kind of action is said to be counter-irritant or derivative from the inflamed part, by exciting inflammation in the neighbourhood of that part. This may be true in some cases. In other cases ii'ritante have the opposite effect—they increase the inflammation in the part itself ; either bringing it to a termination by resolution, or by promoting effusion and hurrying on the process to suppuration. According to the object in view, therefore, we should apply any such agent more or less nearly in relation to the part inflamed, and be guided in our choice of one or other by regard to the intensity of its operation; observing also that the local irritation do not increase the febrile disturbance. A seton consists of a skein of silk, worsted, cotton, or hemp thread, which is attached to the eye of a needle, three or four inches long, and a quarter of an inch in breadth. The integument is pinched up between the thumb and forefinger, and the needle passed through, carrying the seton-skein after it; the needle is then cut off, leaving the lash of threads in the subcutaneous track, and either end hanging out. In- flammation is soon excited, with suppuration; and this counter-irritation and derivative discharge are established for so long a period as it may be desirable to allow the foreign body to remain. If the needle be not at hand, the seton may be passed by means of a common probe; a bistoury having been passed through the fold of integument, the armed probe is slid along the flat of tbe blade.