764 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND BURGEEY. •was that recommended by Boyer. Extension is made from the wrist by one assistant, tbe forearm remaining at a right angle with the arm, while counter-extension is made by another assistant holding the arm ; the Surgeon, grasping the elbow with both hands, presses the olecranon process downwards and forwards. This method does not so readily unlock the bones, and extension from the wrist tells more upon the radius than the ulna, which chiefly opposes reduction. It is, therefore, preferable to grasp the middle of the forearm with both hands, and draw it forwards; no assistant being required except, perhaps, to steady the arm. In either of these methods, it may be advisable to direct the arm backwards, so as to relax the triceps muscle. Listen, who recommended this position, at the same time made extension backwards, counter-extension being made from the shoulder. (2.) Dislocations of the radius alone may be reduced by straight ex- tension gradually from the wrist, the arm being fixed; aided by pressure on the head of the bone forwards or backwards, according to the dislo- cation. In backward dislocation also, forcible supination will aid in just throwing the head of the bone forwards over the articular surface of the humerus ; while, in forward dislocation, forcible pronation will similarly jerk the head into place. But these movements are useless until the head lies on the brink of reduction, and unless while extension is still being continued. Skey applied this method of straight extension in dislocation of both bones backwards ; but, according to my own experi- ence, the ulna is thus less readily unlocked from behind the humerus. After reduction has been effected, it should be maintained by the application of a right-angled split upon the back of the arm and fore- arm, with a compress over the head of the bone—in the case of radial dislocations ; and the forearm supported in a sling. The period for removal of this retentive apparatus should be regulated by the liability to re-dislocation, and to stiiiness of the joint. Dislocation with fracture, as of the coronoid or olecranon process of the ulna, may be treated in the same way ; but retention of the bone in position must be continued for some weeks. Unreduced Dislocations of the Elbow are curable or incurable; partly according to their duration, principally however with reference to the form of dislocation. Recent dislocation of the ulna, or involving the ulna, is much more diflB.cult of reduction than that of the radius after a long period ; the difference being due to the irregular form of the head of the ulna, which opposes reduction. Dislocation of the radius alone has been reduced at periods varying fi-om a few days to weeks or months. In one instance I reduced a dislocation backwards, of ten weeks' duration, and the patient, a laundress, recovered good use of her forearm. Dislocation of the radius forwards has remained unreduced in the hands of skilful Surgeons. Sir A. Cooper failed in two recent cases ; and of the six which came under his immediate observation, only two were ever reduced. Malgaigne states that in a collection of 25 cases, efforts at reduction were ineffectual in 11, and the accident was unrecognized or neglected in 6 ; leaving only 8, of the whole number, reduced. The golden rule should be observed in t elbow-joint dislocations, as in all other such injuries, not to interfere ( when the motions of the joint are tolerably efficient. Compound Dislocations of the Elbow.—These injuries are always perilous ; both on account of their nature, the size of the joint, and as