FRACTURES OF THE HUMERUS. G27 Fig. 220.t neck, an axillary pad will be necessary to guard against the recurrence of displacement. Thus, the treatment of fractures of the scapula, and of the neck in particular, resembles that for fracture of the clavicle. Contusion of the soft parts, often severe, may render it impossible or improper to finally adjust the fracture, until the swelling and pain, thence arising, have partly subsided under the application of cold lotions or other appropriate measures. The union of all fractures of the scapula almost always results in some amount of deformity, owing to the tendency to displacement under the most careful treatment. Fractures op the Humerus.—Fracture of the Humerus is liable to occur in any portion of this bone; in the Upper Articular end, the Fig. 219.* Shaft, or in the Lower Articular end. (Fig. 219.) Fracture of the Upper Articular end may take place in either of three situations. (1.) Intracapsular fracture—within the capsule—or of the anatomical neck. (Fig. 220.) The head remains in the glenoid cavity, while the shaft of the bone is drawn upwards and for- wards to the front and outer side of the coracoid process. It was formei'ly a question whether this fracture ever occurred. The possibility has long since been verified by dissection. Such a case is described in Sir A. Cooper's work; and similar in- dividual specimens are recorded as having been seen by Bichafc, Delpech, Robert Smith in two cases, Pirrie, and other authors. Displacement sometimes accompanies the fracture; either as a dislocation, or by reversion of the head, the cartilaginous surface resting on the osseous sur- face of the lower fragment—a rare form of displace- ment, but of which a specimen was seen by Nelaton, in the possession of M. Dubled, and another by Dr. Robert Smith. Signs.—A projection, corresponding in situation to the end of the lower portion,—the shaft, can be felt on the outer side of the coracoid process, and some flattening loioer down may be perceptible—the deltoid being spread inwards by the shaft. But immediately below the acromion there is no hollow, the head of the bone remaining in the glenoid cavity; and this negative difference in the outline of the shoulder distinguishes fracture of the neck of the humerus from dislocation. Crepitus, and immobility of the head of the bone, may * Fractures of Humerus. Diagram showing; situations and lines of fracture; chiefly from specimens in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.—1. Anato- mical neck (St. George's Mus. 1, 89). 2. Surgical neck. 3. Upper third. 4. Middle third. 5. Lower third. 6. Above, and through condyles, into elbow-joint (Royal Free Hospital). 7. Internal condyle. 8. External condyle. (Author.) t St. George's Hospital Museum, 1, 89. Fracture of the neck of the Humerus — the " anatomical neck," in part; but for the greater part of its course, through the "surgical neck" of this bone. The patient, a young man, was carrying a heavy weight under his arm, and fell from a considerable height. Amputation at the shoulder-joint. This rare specimea of fracture was presented by Sir B. C. Brodie.