SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 482 (2.) The summit of the arch.—A pulsating tumour appears behind Fig. 123.* margin of the sternum (Fig. 123), and rising into the neck, commonly towards the right side, may simulate aneurism of the brachio-cephalic or carotid arteries. But the tumour has no defined lower boundary, being continued downwards into the thorax; and impulse, with dulness on percussion and a bellows or whirring sound, are felt and heard there. I shall have occasion to again notice the diagnostic significance of these cervical aneurismal loculi or saccu- lations of the thoracic arch, in connection with aneurisms of the innominate and carotid arteries springing from the arch, at the root of the neck. (3.) The posterior wall of the descending aorta.—A pulsating tumour appears poste- riorly, to one side of the spine or under the scapula, commonly on the left side, and attains the size perhaps of a man's head, ere it bursts. (Fig. 124.) Apart from these three situations of aortic thoracic aneurism, other aspects of the aorta, as, for example, within the peri- cardium or the concavity of the aorta, are so placed with relation to adjoining parts, that aneurism proves fatal before any pulsating tumour becomes perceptible. Presstire-effects vary with the particular situation of the aneurism, in its relation to surrounding parts, and according to its progressive size. (1.) At the root of the aorta, and par- ticularly in the intra-pericardial portion, an aneurism can scarcely attain any size before death occurs, by rupture into the peri- cardium. (2.) At the termination of the arch, or the descending aorta, aneurism often attains considerable size without any particular pressure-effects. Dysphagia is, however. Fig. 124.t * Eoyal College of Surgeons, Eng., Mus., 1664. In this case the aneurismal sac springs, by a narrow neck, from the posterior and upper part of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, just below the innominate artery. Tlie sac assumed a flattened, transversely ovoid form, and was about four inches in its chief diameter; lying across the lower and front part of the neck, it pressed backwards upon tlie trachea, narrowing the canal, and ultimately bursting into the trachea with a small irregular opening in its anterior wall, immediately above the bifurcation. Owing to the symptoms of laryngeal obstruction, laryngotomy was performed in the crico-thyroid space. The arch of the aorta had undergone atheromatous degeneration on the cardiac side of the aneurism, but on the distal side the artery was healthy, and is not dilated. The heart is slightly enlarged. t Ibid., Mus., leV.'iA. (Dr. J. Thurnam.)