436 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUKGERY. Treatment.—An incipient whitlow may sometimes be subdued by the prompt employment of repressive measures; by leeching, poulticing, and an elevated position of the hand. In the simple form of whitlow, a crucial incision into the pointed swelling of the pulp of the finger, should be made at an early period; or even snipping the vesicated summit will give great relief. In the tendinous form of whitlow, an early and free longitudinal incision, in the middle line of the finger, must be had recourse to, for the relief of tension and swelling. The digital arteries and nerves are thus avoided, and the sheaths of the tendons should not be opened extensively, thus to prevent sloughing and consequent rigidity of the finger. Suppuration or abscess in the palm must also be relieved by timely incision, observing not to wound the superficial palmar arch, which about corresponds with the middle indentation across the skin of the palm. Then well soak the finger and hand in warm water, and envelop the whole with a poultice. The nail, growing and elongating, appears large; it often loosens, and should then be removed by evulsion with a small pair of sequestrum- forceps, or with Hilton's nail-forceps, which holds more firmly and with less damage to the matrix. As a foreign body, the nail would be a source of continued irritation. Any adherent portion need not be removed, but may be pared and scraped to relieve tension. A new nail will form, if the mata-ix be healthy; probably taking a period of five or six months before it is completely restored. In tendinous whitlow, when the inflammation has subsided, a pasteboard splint will be advisable, to prevent contraction. Necrosis of the ungual phalanx necessitates the extraction of this •dead portion of bone; leaving the pulp end of the finger and nail, which eventually form a somewhat hooked extremity, tolerably sensi- tive and useful, and not so unsightly as a truncated end. Amputation will be unavoidable, in the event of more extensive destruction, in- volving the middle or the first phalanx. And it is better to operate rather, apparently, too high, than too low for the sake of preserving the *■ useless remnant of a finger ; any portion of the thumb, however, will be most. useful. The general health must be renovated by tonics and diet. Onychia is a form of ulceration, which com- mences about the matrix of the finger-nails. It usually arises from a pinch or crush of the finger end, bruising the matrix or loosening the attachment of the nail. Shortly after this injury, the finger-end swells, and fluid is effused beneath, the nail, which loses its natural colour, and be- comes thin and flattened at the end, or more rarely curled up laterally. . As the nail continues to grow, it turns upward, and exposes beneath it a very foul, foetid, and painful ulcer; while the finger-end becomes enlarged and bulbous, the integument hardened, shining, and of a livid red colour. (Fig. 104.) This affection occurs mostly, according to Mr. Thomas Smith's ob- servations, in children under ten yeai's of age; but is by no means common. It is little prone to spontaneous recovery; proceeding, perhaps, to necrosis of the ungual phalanx. Fig. Wi.