SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 756 disappeared. The motions of pronation and supination are lost. This dislocation is even more rare than the former ; nine cases only having been collected by Malgaigne, to Avhich Hamilton adds one more, as reported by Parker, of Liverpool. The CAUise is apparently, with hardly any exception, violent supina- tion of the forearm. And this mode of production throws light on the comparatively less frequent occurrence of this dislocation; the motion of supination being less extensive than that of pronation, and less likely to be excessive in any of the offices which the hand has to perform. Treatment.—Reduction is easily effected by forcible pronation of the forearm, with pressure on the head of the ulna backwards. Redislocation need not be apprehended. There was no such ten- dency in Mr. Parker's case. Dislocation of the Radio-caepal Articulation, or Wrist-joint.— Tliis articulation may undergo dislocation backwards, or forwards. Believed by Boyer, Petit, and the older Surgeons, to be a not un- common form of injury, it is probable that most of the apparent cases of wrist-joint dislocation were fractures of the carpal end of the radius, and that Dupuytren's final experience is correct—this accident is extremely rare. In my own practice I have never met with it, nor have I ever yet seen any such dislocation; but undoubted instances have been recorded by Fig. 364:.* Malgaigne, Cruveilhier, B. Coopei', Fergusson, and other Surgeons. (1.) Dislocation of the hand and carpus, baclavards, presents a large projection —the carpus—atthelsack of the wrist (Fig. 364), and another—the lower end of the radius and ulna —on the palmar aspect; with flexure and immobility of the hand. (2.) Dislocation of the hand Fig. 365.t and carpus, forwards, presents just the opposite appearances : a projection of the carpus in front of the wrist (Fig. 365), and of the radius and ulna on the dorsal aspect, with extension and im- mobility of the hand. Causes.—A fall on the hand is the usual occasion of dislocation; the back of the hand, probably, receiving the force of the shock in backward dislocation of the carpus, and the palm of the hand receiv- ing the force in forward dislocation. These dislocations are usually said to arise conversely ; but the cases described in Hamilton's work appear to clearly disprove the accepted representations in most surgical works. Treatment.—Redaction can generally be effected, in either form of dislocation, by extension and counter-extension; at the same time drawing the hand in the contrary direction to which it is inclined, * After Sir A. Cooper. t Bt. Thomas's Hosp. Jlns., B. 18. Dislocation of the hand and carpus forwards, i.e., of the radius and ulua backwards. From a woman, aged 33. No historj'.