805 SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE JOINTS. of tlie leg. A slightly flexed position will be tbe most convenient in the event of anchylosis. For the ankle, also, two lateral splints may be made to include the lower part of the leg and the sole of the foot; the patient being allowed to walk about with the knee supported by a wooden leg. Disease of the bones of the foot will require the support of a splint moulded to the sole, and turned round the inner and outer side. Over this, a large cloth boot may be worn, whereby the patient can walk about without injury to the diseased joints. In the upper extremity, scrofulous disease of the joints must be treated on a similar principle as to rest and position. For the shoulder, a splint should be moulded to the joint, and extend down the arm to the elbow; the fore- arm being suspended in a sling from the neck. A diseased elbow-joint is best supported by lateral splints; the wrist by a splint on its palmar- suT'face, extending upwards to near the elbow and downwards to the tips of the fingers, and doubled at its margins- over the sides of the hand and forearm. In an advanced stage of the disease, when painful startings of the- limb and a tendency to dislocation- have supervened, it becomes ad- visable to slightly separate the diseased articular surfaces, and counteract muscular contraction. Some extending force, moderate but constant in its operation, may be advantageously resorted to; the application and beneficial results of this plan of treatment having been more especially advocated and illustrated by Dr. Sayre.* For the hip-joint. Listen's long splint, interrupted, will accomplish this purpose. But I prefer- weight-extension from the foot, as in the treatment of fracture of the thigh. The knee-joint is, perhaps, best managed by a pulley sling- apparatus which encloses the limb in a canvas trough; while slight extension is maintained by the inclined direction of the pulleys. This apparatus—applicable also to fracture of the thigh or leg—gives great ease and comfort in advanced disease of the knee-joint. When any tendency to dislocation has been overcome, Dr. Sayre's extending- instrument may be used with advantage. For its application he gives the following directions:—" Surround the leg with strips of adhesive plaster about one inch in width, placed lengthwise, and reaching from the head of the tibia down to the ankle-joint, and secure them with a roller- bandage from the top down to the point at which the lower band of the instrument is to be applied, lea"ving four or five inches of the lower ends of the plaster loose, fastening the bandage with stitches. Then, surround the thigh with strips of adhesive plaster of about the same width, applied in the same manner, and extending lengthwise upon the thigh from the lower end of the femur, nearly its whole length. Secure these plasters with a nicely adjusted roller-bandage, from the knee upward to the point where the upper band of the instru- ment is to be applied, leaving the remaining por- tion of the plaster loose. (Fig. 418.) Place the instrument on the limb so as to bring the side-bars upon the same plane with the condyles of the femur, an assistant holding it steadily in that position. The collar embracing * Op. cit.