THE SCIENCE AKD PEACTICE OF SURGEBY. 10 co-operations and orders of succession in the body. Constitutional morbid conditions frequently co-exist. This combination of morbid states of the blood and nervous system is exhibited by fever, in every variety. Among blood diseases; erysipelas, which occurs not unfrequently in surgical practice, may co-exist with typhus, or with typhoid fever, with small- pox, or with syphilis—primary or secondary. Local morbid conditions frequently co-exist; as in the association of inflammation with every kind of injury—wounds, burns, fractures, dislocations, etc. As illustrating the order of succession perhaps most commonly met with; a (local) suppurating wound induces (constitutional) blood-poisoning or pyaemia, and this disease is reflected by the formation of (local) secondary abscesses in various parts of the body. Primary syphilis in its relation to the blood, and thence to secondary syphilitic affections, IS another familiar example of the same order of succession. Among diseases of the nervous system, we observe tetanus arising from some local injury, and then reacting upon that part, causing it to assume an unhealthy condition. After a strangulated femoral hernia, for which I operated, no bad symptom ensued for a week, then tetanus supervened, and the wound immediately re-opened and became distinctly gangrenous. But I can only glance at the whole of this inquiry, which I have endeavoured to develop in my " Principles of Surgery." 3. Prognosis is a department of clinical knowledge, which, compared with modern Diagnosis and Etiology, is far less advanced. To foretell the course and terminations, and the eventual consequences of any given disease or injury, is generally far more diflBcult than to discover the morbid condition itself, and its causative relations. At the same time, the practical importance of this foreknowledge in relation to Treatment cannot be doubted; whether we look to the prevention of impending complications, of a fatal issue, or of the consequences which may ensue even in the event of recovery. To this end, the old "prognostics" of symptoms being "good" or "bad" according to the suggestions of empirical experience, affords no better knowledge than can be acquired by observant nurses no less than by practitioners. On the other hand, the intelligible guidance of Pathology has hitherto failed, in most cases, to cast more than a dim and uncertain light on our prognostications. Why is this ? There are two unavoidable difli- culties to be overcome. The " natural history " of disease has been watched but little, and recorded less ; this deficiency in our knowledge being the result of our having to treat disease, as well as to observe its progress ; so that its vital history is continually modified by the intervention of our medicinal agents and operative procedures. Then again, individual peculiarities of constitution, age, sex, social position, and many other circumstances, have to be taken into account, and the influence of which in this or that case, may defy calculation. Certain general principles only seem to be trustworthy: the persistence of causes in their operation, as the immediate ground of Prognosis ; with the kind and extent of structural alteration which the organ or part has undergone, and the influence of which is somewhat proportionate to the period during which the disease or injury has continued, unless as a chronic lesion to which the system has become habituated. Beyond this source of foreknowledge, the nature and the importance of the functional disturbances may indicate the probable issue, and its conse- quences when not a fatal termination.