INFLAMMATION. 59 are also parfcicularlj well sliown, and their cause, wlietber purely cardiac or dependent to some extent on the respiratory movements, indicated. There is one character of the pulse, however, which is perhaps the most important of all to recognize, and which the Sphygmograph does not indicate, namely, that of 'persistence.' By this is meant the ability to feel the arteiy during the diastolic period, owing to its prolonged dis- tension and overfulness, due to contracted arterioles or impeded capil- lary circulation, whichever may prove to be the true cause of what is known as 'high tension.' Although this particular character is not shown by the Sphygmograph, and can only be felt by the finger, nevertheless others which are always associated with it, are most per- fectly indicated by the instrument, and comprise the signs of ' high tension.' It is as a measure of 'arterial tension' that the Sphygmo- graph is perhaps of the greatest value, and a few words on the indica- tions of the degree of tension existing are necessary. "By the term 'high tension' a condition is meant in which the arteries are fuller than natural. It produces increased resistance to the heart's contraction, and increased pressure on the arterial walls. If such a condition be chronic, it produces hypertrophy of the left ven- tricle and thickening of the heart, as in chronic Bright's disease, and is also the immediate cause of atheroma, aneurism, apoplexy, albuminuria, and other conditions. The most constant indication of this condition is prolongation, or undue sustension of the tidal wave. This can be Fig. 12.—To gauge High Teusion. (a.) Line from apex of up- stroke to bottom of aortic notch. (&.) Line from bottom of notch to base line. gauged as follows :—Let a line be drawn from the summit of the often upstroke to the bottom of the aortic notch (Fig. 12a, A c); if any part of the tidal wave rises above this line, forming a curve with its convexity upwards, the tidal wave may be said to be unduly sustained, and the arterial tension to be high. The next important sign of high tension is the height of the line drawn from the bottom of the aortic notch to the base line. (Fig. 12&, c D.) The longer the line, the higher the arterial tension, and vice versa. " In high tension the percussion wave is usually well marked, and separated from the tidal wave. (Fig- llh.) Sometimes it is absent, from failing power and feeble contraction of the heart. (Fig. 11c.) High tension may exist with the muscular coat of the arteries contracted or relaxed ; the upstroke may therefore be short or high. It usually requires considerable pressure to develop the pulse, but not