723 COMPOUND DISLOCATION. lacerated or contused wound. Limited, therefore, to the part injured, and defined, eventually, by a line of demarcation between the living and dead textures, the gangrene is also immediate, if the injury itself be severe. Course and Terminations.—Inflammation supervenes, followed by suppuration, often profuse, and partial sloughing; or gangrene, possibly, on a larger scale. Yet this also is limited to the seat of injury. Ulti- mately, compound dislocation, when reduced, not unfrequently under- goes reparation ; the torn ligaments and tendons becoming reconnected, and the wound closing up by the healing process of suppurative granu- lation and cicatrization. Spreading gangrene—due to some morbid condition of the blood— is only contingent, occasionally, on compound dislocation; just as it may be associated with compound fracture, and with contused and lacerated wounds. The phenomena of this species of gangrene were described under the last-named form of Injury. The Prognosis of Compound Dislocation, as gathered from the fore- going elements of its natural course and tendency, is far less favourable than that of simple Dislocation. An oj)en wound, communicating with the joint, as compared with subcutaneous laceration of the soft parts, is one unfavourable ground of pi-ognostic distinction. Scarcely less so is the greater extent of their laceration, usually, in compound Dislocation, especially if produced by direct violence. Sjpreading gangrene is an adventitious condition, but as implying the co-operation of a constitu- tional cause, it has a most unfavourable significance. Treatment.—The same rules of treatment are applicable as for simple dislocation; but certain particulars, having reference to the special pathology of compound dislocation, are peculiar to its treatment. Heduction of the displacement may present special difficulties. Thus, if the bone protrude, excision is preferable to violent efforts at reduction. In regard to the ankle, the knee, and elbow joints, removal of the ends of bone may be resorted to, with advantage and safety. The head of the astragalus has been removed, when, by dislocation forwards, it protruded and could not be returned. The practice of excision in compound dislocation, to aid reduction, is as old as the time of Celsus ; but in modern Surgery—revived by Mr. Hey, of Leeds, and advocated by Sir A. Cooper—relative to the ankle-joint, it has since been sanctioned, as an occasional expedient, by the united testimony of experienced Surgeons, English, American, and foreign. The Wound.—Reduction having been accomplished, and the limb retained in a suitable position—^to prevent the recurrence of dislocation —by appropriate bandaging or apparatus, the treatment peculiar to compound dislocation is that relating to the wound, and state of the soft parts involved. The ■primary indication is to close the wound, with the view of soliciting its union by adhesion, and thus convert the dislocation into a simple one. For this purpose, a pad .of lint—soaked in blood from the wound, as formerly practised, or better, simply wet lint, or soaked in carbolic acid solution—should be applied over and around the wound, so as entirely to exclude the air. But, watching the progress of the case, when primary adhesion becomes obviously impossible, the attempt should be forthwith discontinued, in order to give free vent to matter during the process of suppuration. JEarly solicitation of healing by primary adhesion, and timely abandonment of the attempt, in favour