785 DISLOCATIONS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. partly on this bone and partly on the os calcis, behind it. The foot, in front of the ankle, is elongated. Dr. E. W. Smith believes that this dislocation is never complete, so that the tibia shall lodge entirely on tlie OS calcis. The lateral ligaments are ruptured, or one or both malleoli are broken. Signs.—Dislocation laterally, outwards or inwards, presents opposite appearances. Outward dislocation is characterized by violent eversion of the foot, its inner margin being directed downwards; the inner malleolus projects prominently under the integuments, and there is a corresponding depression above the outer malleolus, in the situation of fracture of the fibula. Crepitus may here be detected, and the foot can be moved about pretty freely by the Surgeon, but with great pain. Imoarcl dislocation is distinguished by inversion of the foot, its outer margin looking downwards ; and the outer malleolus projects strongly under the skin. Dislocation backwards and forwards also present opposite appear- ances. Backivard dislocation is attended with shortening of the foot in front of the tibia, and depression of the toes; while the heel is elongated, projecting posteriorly, and'tdrawn upwards. The extensor tendons of the toes are sharply defined, and the tendo-Achillis is curved tensely forward. The foot is immovable. These signs are even more marked with complete dislocation ; the end of the tibia can be distinctly felt projecting forwards, accompanied with an evident depression posteriorly in front of the tendo-Achillis. Forward dislocation is characterized by lengthening of the foot in front of the tibia, and elevation of the toes ; with corresponding obliteration of the -heel, which is in a line with the back of the leg, and depressed downwards. A portion of the articu- lating surface of the astragalus may be felt in front of the tibia. Causes.—Direct violence, as a severe twist or wrench of the foot outwards or inwards, represents the ordinary mode of producing either lateral dislocation; the displacement taking place, obviously, in the oi^posite direction to such force. Indirect violence, as a fall from a height upon the bottom of the foot, may have a similar effect; if the foot have a suflficient inclination to either side, to thus direct the force of the impulse in favour of dislocation to that side. Forcible flexion or extension may produce dislocation backwards or forwards, respectively. A fall on the bottom of the foot, the body inclining backwards or for- wards, tends also to produce dislocation in the oijposite direction. But a person jumping out of a carriage in rapid motion, and alighting on his feet, is liable to dislocation in the direction of the momentum. Thus, from jumping out forwards, the dislocation will be forwards; from jumping out backwards, the dislocation will, probably, be back- wards. When these two forms of dislocation are accompanied with fracture of the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, the displacement may be partly due to muscular action,—the contraction of the flexor muscles of the calf. Luxation may therefore occur at the time of the accident, or be consecutive to the fracture. Treatment.—All these dislocations are reduced in like manner. The leg should be flexed to a right angle on the thigh, to relax the con- joined gastrocnemius and soleus muscles ; extension is then made from the foot in a line with the long axis of the leg, taking care that the foot inclines midway between flexion and extension of the ankle-joint, and by drawing with one hand on the back of the foot and the other 3 E