SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND 8UKGERY. 490 Distal ligature of the carotid alone is not liable to this source of failure ; no branch being given off from the parent trunk. The operation, as performed in nine cases of innominate aneurism, gave the following results. In eight, a fatal result ensued in periods varying from a few hours to a few days, or some months, even 20 months. Secondary haemorrhage, asphyxia, and exhaustion were apparently the causes of death consequent on the operation, excepting in two of the cases ; one dying—a few hours after operation—from insufficient supply of blood to the brain ; the other—on the sixtieth day—from hemiplegia. The only successful case, by Evans, lived 39 years, and possibly longer. The sac, in these cases, underwent consolidation in various degrees, the tumour and its pulsation diminishing accord- ^iigly; but this reparative change seemed to have no proportionate relation to the period after ligature. Thus, in one dying on the seventh day, the tumour was nearly filled with firm laminated coagu- lum; whereas, in another, on the 115th day, no alteration in the tumour had taken place. Suppuration in, and rupture of, the sac occurred in one case ; and also in the only case of recovery. Distal ligature of hoth the carotid and subclavian arteries, for innominate aneurism, has been practised in four cases, by Feam, Wickham, Malgaigne, and Rossi, with the following comparative results. In the first three, the vessels were ligatured successively ; an interval of two years, or of two months, or six months, elapsing between the operations. In the fourth case, the vessels were ligatured simultaneously. All were fatal; the first dying in three months after the second operation, from pleurisy ; the second, two and a half months after bursting of the sac. The third and fourth cases were fatal, in three weeks after the second operation, from erysipelas, and in six days after simultaneous ligature ; but the latter of these two cases was remarkable for having survived that time, the supply of blood to the brain being wholly cut off by occlusion of the left carotid and right vertebral arteries, so that the cerebral circulation was carried on solely through the left vertebral artery. The sac in the first of these four cases, i.e., after two years, was found filled with dense organized coagulum ; leaving a channel of the size of the artery, for the passage oi blood. In the second case the tumour diminished after ligature of the carotid, but increased after ligature of the subclavian had temporarily relieved recurring symptoms. The following table of cases collected by Mr. T. Holmes includes the cases of operation for Aortic Aneurism :— Distal Ligature m Aortic and Innominate Aneurisms. Surgeon. Artery affected. Date. Result. Remarks. I. Double Coksecutive Ligature. Feam. Wickham. 3. Malgaigne. 4. Bickersteth. Innominate. Ditto. Ditto. Aorta and In- nominate. 1836—1838. Sept.—Dec, 1839. Apr.—Oct., 1815. May—June, 'l8(jl. Cured. Died. Secondary liajmorrbage. Died. Erysipelas. Died. Suffoca- tion. Preparation.