SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 724 of suppuration, as soon as this event occurs or is inevitable, constitutes a compromise, which overrules any objection as to the jyrohahle failure of the one and the supervention of the other. It may secure the advantage, otherwise forfeited, of thus having to deal with only a sirrqAe Dislocation. In the event of Suppuration, early, free, and dependent incisions are indicated, for the same reasons, as in compound fracture; and a poultice or spongio-piline soaked in warm water as a fomentation, is now the proper application ; to be exchanged for light water-dressing, or with carbolic acid solution, when the continuance of warmth with moisture would only sodden and relax, and when the wound is granulating. The same hygienic and meAical treatment also, as for compound fracture will prove efficacious iu sustaining the system under the hectic fever a,nd exhaustion consequent on prolonged and perchance profuse suppurative discharge, and in overcoming the typhoidal fever induced by gangrene or sloughing. Amputation.—The " question of amputation " depending upon the supervention of gangrene, or of profuse suppuration, the;pro2nieiy of this FiQ. 334.* operation is determined by pathologico-anatomical conditions parallel to those of compound fracture. (1.) Frimary amputation, only when the whole substance of a limb being involved by compound dislocation, the limb itself is already, in the first instance, virtually lost, and life as inevitably endangered. Such was the condition of compound disloca/- tion represented in Fig. 334, the integuments having been removed from the limb to display the various kinds and extent of lesion. ; Unique as a new form of elbow-joint dislocation, by dislodgment of the' radius and ulna outwards and upwards on to the extei'nal ridge of the humerus above the condyle, the forearm had thus undergone an " external latero-angular dislocation.^' The relative position of the... bones, and thence the peculiar appearance of the joint externally and configuration of the limb, I have described in the " Brit, and For. Med. Chir. Rev., January," 1866. As justifying amputation, the lesions co- existing were these. A large lacerated wound about the middle of the forearm in front, exposing the muscles and a portion of both bones, with • Koyal Free Hospital. (Autlior.)