178 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. thickness of tlie skin, its widespread adhesion, and enlargement of the pox'es, constitute a decisive contra-indication. (6.) The glands having become diseased to an extent which interfei'es with their removal, pro- hibits also removal of the primary tumour, either by excision or ampu- tation. (7.) Rapid growth, in any way, is decidedly unfavourable for operation. Hence most encephaloid cancers are better left alone, unless in a very early stage. (8.) Cancers, the relations of which to important parts around cannot be foreseen, are better not meddled with. Thus circumstanced, are cancers beneath the scalp, which often implicating the bone, penetrate the skull; cancer of the eye, which often involves the optic nerve; cancer of either jaw, particularly the upper, where it is apt to protrude into the maxillary sinus or the ethmoid cells ; and cancers about the root of the neck. I once assisted my colleague Mr. de Meric in removing an encephaloid cancer situated about the sixth rib, below the fold of the pectoral muscle on the right side. The tumour was not larger than an orange, the skin unbroken, and it seemed movable on the rib. Yet, on commencing the operation, the haemorrhage was alarming, the rib gave way, and any further attempt was at once discontimied. The man, of florid complexion, became blanched with almost fatal syncope in a moment, and rallying only for a short time, he died of internal haemorrhage ; a warning in all such, and similar cases. Epithelial Canceb.—One variety of cancer I have reserved for special description; because, although in many points allied to ence- phaloid and somewhat to sciirhous cancer, it nevertheless presents very chai'acteristic appearances, and possesses much surgical interest. I allude to epithelial cancer. Structural Condition and Diagnostic Gharacters.~ll\\\5 variety con- sists essentially of cells or scales, resembling those of scaly epithelium, infiltrated among the component elements of the skin or mucous mem- brane, or sometimes among the textures of internal organs. Whatever portion of the skin or mucous membrane may be thus affected, the epithelial cancer-cell or scale has very much the same characters. (Fig. 60.) It is flattened, of an irregular outline, with usually a pro- FiG. 60.* longed diverticulum at some point of its margm, and of a variable size. It contains pale molecular matter, converging towards a central nucleus which is clear, bright, and well-defined, round or oval, and very small in comparison with the cell; more uniform also m its shape and siz^. This nucleus is usually single. It may contain two or more mmute granules, but rarely a bright distinct nucleolus ./i ..lu " or Associated with these cells, are what Paget calls "brood-cells, or * Epithelial cancer-cells or scales in various forms. Magnified 350 times. (Paget.)