425 BUEN8 AND SCALDS. so ominous of cerebral congestion ; but they are specially unfavourable as regards tbe liability to erysipelas. The duration of the burning cause is, perhaps, favourable, as to the less liability of internal conges- tion or inflammation ensuing, but unfavourable so far as it imijlies a considerable depth of burn and consequent exhaustive discharge. Age has scarcely any relation specially to the prognosis of burns. Children are peculiarly liable to the danger of (secondary) visceral affections, cerebral, thoracic, and abdominal; and more easily succumb to their influence than adults. Extreme age is, of course, always comparatively unable to resist the shock, and consequences of injury. Treatment.—(1.) Shoch and the tendency to Congestion require im- mediate attention. Wine, brandy, or ammonia are the stimulants commonly administered to induce reaction. Warm tea may be suf- ficient, if the patient be young and the burn slight. Laudanum, in favour with some Surgeons, is, I think, undesirable, as being conducive to congestion. The patient should be wrapped in a warm blanket; or immersion in a warm bath has been recommended, which also cleanses the surface of any charred portion of the clothes. (2.) Reaction, occa- sionally excessive, must be moderated by any gentle depletory measures, otherwise than by loss of blood. Mild purgatives, and the withdrawal of stimulants for a time, will generally reduce any undue reaction, as measured by the pulse and heat of the skin. It should ever be remem- bered that any temporary tendency to inflammatory symptoms readily subsides into a congestive tendency, affecting the internal organs. (3.) Suppuration and exhaustion are specially inevitable in the course of deeper burns ; although some exhaustion supervenes in all burns. The strength of the circulation should therefore be retained for this period, and maintained when it arrives. Stimulants are again required, with tonics, and the generous diet suitable in cases of profuse and prolonged suppurative discharge arising from any cause. Local Treatment.—The primary indication is to protect the surface from exposure to the action of the air. Increased and continued pain and shock will thus be prevented. For this purpose, various topical applications have been employed. The degree or depth of bum will, I think, best determine the choice. Erythema, or vesication, cannot require any application more than simply protective. Collodion, mixed with castor oil, two parts to one, may be brushed lightly over the surface ; or gutta-percha col- lodion, undiluted, may be used. Two or three coatings will perhaps be necessary. Some tingling pain, which aggravates the burning sensation, soon passes off. " Carron oil," consisting of equal parts of linseed oil and lime water, also answers admirably. Lint, dipped in this thick, yellow, pultaceous fluid, forms a covering, at once exclusive of atmospheric influence and emollient. Deeper burns, destroying the cuticle, skin, and so forth, thus presenting an exuding surface, are perhaps more advantageously covered with some absorbent material, riour, dredged over the surface, soon forms an encrusting artificial skin. This need not be removed until loosened by increasing dis- charge and separation of the eschar. The removal of this crust by the Surgeon would be attended with great pain, and damage to the surface about to heal, and would aggravate the constitutional disturb- ance. But the possibly irritating character of this kind of dressing, and the impossibility of removing it, without these evil consequences,