HYSTERIA. 353 Avith otlier attendant evils, Lad wrouglit a prejudicial infiueucc on her health. When the apparatus which she had so long worn was removed on the occasion of her first visit to me, the foot immediately resumed its twisted form. The attitude of the limb was that of complete inversion. The disease had appeared almost suddenly in a person hitherto healthy up to fifteen years of age. It could not be due to congenital deformity, and the limb gave no indication of disease. There was neither heat, nor pain, nor swelling. In this case, also, there was no catamenial derangement. I removed the apparatus from the foot, bandaged the limb, ordered a full nutritious diet, with bark and iron, and having explained the nature of the disease to the friends, sent the young lady home to the country, recommending her to rely on the kindly offices of Nature—the greatest of all doctors, orthopcedists not excepted. At the end of a month, some progress had been made. She still walked with much difficulty, but it was obvious that she was improving in health and vigour of system. At the expu'ation of six weeks, she accompanied her family to a ball, her foot, as she entered the ball-room, being not yet restored to its normal position. She was invited to dance; and under this novel excitement she stood up, and, to the astonishment of her family, she danced the whole evening, having almost suddenly recovered the healthy muscular actions of the limb ! She came to see me two days afterwards. She walked perfectly well into my room, and paced the room backwards and forwards with great delight. The actions of the limb were thoroughly restored, and all traces of the previous malady had disappeared." In briefly tracing the clinical history of Hysteria, we have noticed several manifestations of functional derangement, whether by exalted sensibility or pain, and muscular affections of a spasmodic character, or in the form of contractions; to these may be added the apparent loss of voluntary motion—paralysis. Among the many paralytic affections, as they would appear, which may be referable to hysteria, retention of urine has already been alluded to, as being sometimes due to the failure or the disuse of voluntary power, in a person perhaps otherwise subject to symptoms of the parent disease. But hysterical paralysis is not unfrequently witnessed in the more pronounced form of paraplegia or hemiplegia. Arising from some mental emotion, as fright, the loss of voluntary j^ower and sensibility in the lower limbs, or on the whole of one side of the body, more or less completely, may be referable to some slight injury, and not necessarily in any part of the spine, or the head. A sprain of the knee may as jsrobably give rise to hysterical paralysis, as a contusion in the back. But the most remarkable element in the history of this paralysis is, generally, that the loss of voluntary power, and of sensibility, in the lower limbs comes on suddenly, and as suddenly ceases, although the aj^parent paralysis may have continued for months or even for years. Under the influence of some strong emotion, the pseudo-paralytic affection may vanish, perhaps in a moment; sometimes to return, sometimes '. leaving the patient permanently recovered. Dr. C. J. B. Williams mentions the case of a lady, who for several years having lost the use of her lower limbs, was startled by a rat rnnning near her; she made an effort, and sprang upon a table; the power, however, did not remain, for she could not get down again. In like manner may be explained the supposed cures wrought by the excitement of religious 2 a