504 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. mortality of ligature of the subclavian in the third part, in all cases taken indiscriminately, would appear to be considerably above 40 per cent. ! In the following remarkable case of axillary aneurism, the patient was a man forty-three years old. The aneurism was referable apparently to a fall on the ice, when the arm was extended. Six months elasped before any perceptible swelling was noticed ; and then, after increasing for three months, the man came under the care of Mr. Listen. At that time the aneurismal tumour was nearly twice the size to which it afterwards became reduced; the arm was enormously swollen, the upper part being indurated; the lower part, as well as the compressed and flattened side of the chest, soft and oedematous. In this state, the arm retained its natural temperature, but it was insensible and motionless, and the pulse of the radial artery could not be felt at the wrist. Mr. Listen ligatured the subclavian artery ; and, for security, a second strong ligature was applied three-fourths of an inch nearer to the heart, close to the edge of the anterior scalenus muscle. At that part the artery was dilated, and its coats felt soft and thickened. After the operation, the case went on well for some days ; but on the fifth day, there was increased pain in the tumour and down the arm, with much constitutional excitement. The patient was bled to eight ounces, and an anodyne was given, which afforded much relief. On the thirteenth day, oozing of blood began, and the following day the wound discharged dark, putrid blood. Compression succeeded in arresting this haemorrhage, but the next day—the fifteenth after operation—the patient died fi'om exhaustion. Then the wound was found full of coagulated blood ; the upper ligature lay loose among the coagula, detached from the artery and enclosing a slough; the lower ligature was still attached, although the vessel was there extensively ulcerated. It appeared that the hgemorrhage had proceeded from this part. At the seat of the upper ligature the vessel was contracted, and contained a coagulum. The axillary artery passed over the inner part of the sac, adhered firmly to it, and had become obliterated three inches below the clavicle. Below the aneurism, the brachial artery had contracted to a small size, and coagulation had taken place in the vessel. All the anastomosing vessels were much enlarged to carry on a collateral circulation. The dissection in this case^ showed an enoi'mous aneurism of the axillary artery, which occupied the whole axilla, elevating the shoulder, and pressing in the side of the chest; a portion of the sao extends downwards for two inches on the inner side of the biceps muscle. (Fig. 136.) The brachial plexus of nerves is stretched over and closely united to the sac, at its upper and anterior surface. The sac has a globular or ovoid form, and measures from six to eight inches in * Eoy. Coll. Surg. Mus., 1695 ; and Edin. Med. Journal, 1827, vol. xxvii. p. 4. Fig. 136.*