GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 56 acquired velocity is exhausted, the over-distended elastic wall springs back and originates a new wave, which is prevented passing backwards by the closure of the aortic valves which it produces, and therefore passes forwards, imparting a fresh impulse or wave to the blood-stream, called the dicrotic wave, or diastolic expansion. A small gfecondary wave of somewhat similar production to the last is occasionally seen in the remainder of the downstroke, being apparently a slight oscilla- tion, before an equilibrium is attained between the blood-pressure within the tube and the elastic pressure of its walls. "Various degrees of dicrotism occur, to which terms have been applied indicating the relation of what is known as the Aortic notch to the respiratory line of the tracing. The Aortic notch, sometimes called the dicrotic notch, is the notch immediately preceding the dicrotic wave, or diastolic expansion. (Fig. 10, c.) It is so called be- FlG. 10.—Degrees of Dicrotism. (a.) Dicrotic. (6.) Fully dicrotic. (c.) Hyperdicrotic. cause it is coincident with the closure of the aortic valves, and indicates the termination of systole; the portion of the pulse wave preceding it coincides with systole, that following it with diastole. The Respiratory or base line of the tracing is the line drawn through the lowest points of the upstrokes. (Fig. 10, A B.) It should be straight in a normal tracing, but it varies if the amount of blood in the vessels, or arterial tension, varies. Thus, if during the tracing a deep inspiration be made, the blood tension is reduced, owing to the suction action of the thorax, and there is a fall in the respiratory line, while by complete expiration the tension is increased, and an elevation occurs in the respiratory line. So in some cases of disease, when there is severe dyspnoea, and dilatation of the right side of the heart, there is a constant variation in the respiratory line with each movement of respiration; it is then caUed ' undulating.'