141 TUMOURS OR MORBID GROWTHS. hasmorrliage is bat slight compared with the size of the tumour. I have excised such tumours without any recurrence. The largest fibro-cellular out-growth I have yet seen, that of the clitoris enlarged to the size of a cocoa-nut, was easily removed by a sweep of the knife through the peduncle. Painful Subcutaneous Tumour, or Tubercle—so named by Mr. W. Wood, who first described it—is a peculiar variety of fibro-cellular tumour, to which and to fibrous tumour it is structurally allied; but peculiar, if only as distinguished by the pain, intense and paroxysmal, which commonly occurs, and which is not to be accounted for by the structure of the tumour, itself perhaps destitute of any nerve-filaments, nor by any special relation to adjacent nerves. This painful tumour, situated in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is barely visible; for it is beneath the skin, and scarcely projects. It is also of small size, rarely exceeding half an inch in diameter; but it can be readily felt, as a roundish body, very firm and elastic. Isolated by a capsule, this hard body is free in the subcutaneous tissue, and is, therefore, so far movable; but it may be intimately adherent to the skin, and move with it when pressed under the finger. The super- imposed skin, if adherent, has the general appearance of a cicatrix; it is slightly puckered, stretched, glistening and white, unless during a paroxysm of pain, when it may become congested and swollen, and the surrounding blood-vessels turgid. The surface and section of this tumour are alike in colour variable ; commonly yellowish; sometimes only greyish, or pure white. Its sub- stance consists of fibro-cellular or fibrous tissue, with an abundance of nuclei intermixed; and the whole represents an immature state, or rather various immature states, of either tissue. JSTerve-filaments have not been discovered. The I'ig- 39.* tumour is usually solitary, as well as subcuta- neous. It is thus also distinguished from !N"eu- roma, a fibrous tumour connected with a nerve. (Fig. 39.) This latter species of growth is characterized by the presence of nerve-fila- ments in, or spread over, the mass; and by the large number of such tumours often produced in various parts of the body, not less perhaps than 2000 having been found in one unprece- dented case. (R. W. Smith.) Situation.—Painful subcutaneous tumour or tubercle occurs, as its name denotes, beneath the skin; and especially in the extremities, more particularly the lower limbs, very rarely on the trunk or face. It has, I believe, been found deeply imbedded in the substance of muscle. This tumour is solitary in nearly every instance. Origin.—Painful tubercle is very rare in both early life and old age. It occurs much more commonly in the female than in the male. Course.—Slow growth, and non-recurrence when removed entirely, characterize the life of this little tumour. Treatment.—This variety of fibro-cellular tumour generally requires * Neuroma. (After FoUin.)