630 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. and fascia, witli some of the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus; but below, the artery is under cover of the clavicle, and crossed, beneath this bone, by the supra-scapular branch from the thyroid axis. The transverse-cervical branch traverses the upper ' angle, at the junction of Fig. 154.* the omo-hyoid and sterno- mastoid muscles. Here also, the external jugular vein coming downwards over the last-named mus- cle, enters the space to open into the subclavian vein. The artery rests on the pleura and upper surface of the first rib; on which, between the vessel and the tendon of the scalenus, a tubercle may be felt—the guide to the artery. Above is the brachial plexus, consist- ing of three nervous cords, supported by the posterior scalenus muscle; below lies the subclavian vein. No branch arises from this, the third portion of the ai'tery. Operation.—Internal to the scalenus.—Ati'ansverse incision over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid leads down to the vessel in this part of its course. (See Fig. 162.) But a vertical incision also along the inner border of the muscle may be added, if necessary, for space; and the V-shaped flap of integument raised, with the platysma and fascia. The clavicular portion of the muscle and the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles beneath, are then to be divided transversely, just above the clavicle, and the vessel exposed. The internal jugular vein may be drawn outwards and guarded with a retractor, and the pneumogastric nerve being avoided, the aneurism-needle armed with a ligature should be passed around the artery from below upwards. Beneath the scalenus.—A V-shaped incision should be made, but with the angle looking inwards. (See Fig. 152.) Thus, a transverse incision over the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid, from two to three inches in length, is met by a vertical incision about two inches long, rather external to the outer border of the sterno-mastoid; and the flap of skin, platysma, and fascia is raised upwards and inwards. The external jugular vein may be conveniently drawn outwards. The clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid must then be divided inwards as far as may be necessary to expose the anterior scalenus cleai-ly. The phrenic nerve lying on that muscle, and the internal jugular vein * Posterior Triangle of the Neck, lower portion. 1. Sterno-mastoid muscle. 2. Trapezius. 3. Posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. 4. Anterior scalenus. 5. Middle scalenus. 6. Upper boundary, beyond the subclavian triangle. 7. Subclavian artery—its third part. 8. External jugular vein, joining the subclavian below. !). Nerves of brachial plexus. (Blandin, " Surgical Anatomy," part view, reduced.)