614 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. less easily recognized. The condyloid process, when detached, will be drawn forwards by the external pterygoid muscle. Direct violence is always the cause of fracture in the lower, as well as in the upper, jaw ; and such force must be considerable, as the bone is very thick, and readily moves from side to side. Treatment.—The fragments can be easily adjusted, but less easily retained. Yery many contrivances have been devised, which may be comprised under the names of ligatures,—such as silver or platinum wire, or strong silk thread; splints; bandages; and various forms of apparatus. It will suffice to notice the appliances which are com- monly ehgible, and successful in their results. A pasteboard or gutta- percha splint may be moulded to the base of the jaw (Fig. 205); the upper jaw being used as a splint above. A four- tailed bandage, with a hole in the centre to . Fig. 205. receive the chin, is then applied ; two ends tied over the top of the head, and two behind the neck, thereby fastening the jaw, both ways, in position. (Fig. 206.) Fluid nourishment only is allowed, which can be sucked in between the teeth. Double fracture, and near the symphysis, with greater depression of the fragment, requires the more steady and firm support of the clamp apparatus, contrived by Lonsdale. Loose teeth may, possibly, be preserved by fastening them to the sound teeth with fine gold or silver wire. But any tooth which would prevent even apposition of the fragments, should be removed. Advantage may perhaps be taken of the opening thus made, to feed the patient through a suction tube, during the pro- cess of reparation. Union, and generally osseous, takes place usually in a month or five weeks. The resulting deformity is slight; scarcely to be seen or felt by external examination, and amounting mostly to a little irregularity in the line of the teeth, owing to some depression of the anterior fragment. Wire ligature has been employed in fractures of the jaw by American Surgeons, especially Dr. Buck and Dr. Hamilton, and in this country by Mr. Wheelhouse, of Leeds; but this mode of treatment has been brought into notice more particularly by Mr. Thomas, of Liverpool. He has devised various methods of applying the ligature to secure the fractured portions together, and instruments for drilling the bone when necessary, and for fastening the wire. Silver annealed wire is used, the thickness -^j inch, so as to be easily manipulated, and yet of sufficient strength to retain its hold. The annexed figure represents one mode of applying the ligature. (Fig. 207.) The silver wire is passed through the opening at A. Then, the tubular needle (not shown) is passed through another aperture at B, into the open end of which instrument the return end of the wire being introduced, is