429 FROST-BITE. impunity may be many degrees below zero, wlien the air is dry and still; a cold atmosphere with moisture or the slightest wind will speedily freeze a part exposed thus to a further and sudden reduction of temperature. The symptoms of frost-bite are loss of sensation and power of motion in a muscular part; and, the circulation becoming arrested, a remarkable pallor overspreads the surface, deadening into a stone colour, with stiffness increasing to hardness, and even brittleness of the part, when quite dead. The constitutional disturbance arises principally from general ex- posure of the body to cold, under the circumstances of frost-bite. Languor, and an overpowering sleepiness, ending in stupor or coma, invariably supervene during prolonged exposure to severe cold, and may thus cause death, the part itself dying with the general failure of life. The whole body becomes frozen by more continued exposure, and thence the condition known as "frozen to death." A part frozen or frost-bitten is not irrecoverably dead. A whole limb may have become perfectly insensible and cold as ice, white and transparent like marble, incapable of being bent without breaking; and yet not absolutely dead. The combs of cocks and the ears of rabbits were frozen by Hunter, but these parts afterwards recovered. Leeches and frogs have been placed in the same state, and then restored to life. Cold-blooded animals, and parts of warm-blooded animals, when frozen, are, therefore, not dead, but asleep as it were, and can be aroused; even as a seed is ready to sprout, awaiting circumstances favourable to life. How long a frozen part may retain its susceptibiUty of life is uncertain ; but this is certain, that, unless reaction be gradual, the returning flow of blood is apt to become excessive—to pass into inflammation, speedily ending in gangrene. While, therefore, gradual and moderate elevation of temperature induces salutary reaction and restoration, sudden or immoderate accession of warmth will inevitably excite gangrenous inflammation. "When extensive, as in both feet, death may ensue from exhaustion, or from pysemic infection. Treatment.—In the dormant state of any part of the body from frost-bite, when although apparently dead the part is recoverable, pathology suggests the solicitation of reaction short of inflammation; and thence the prevention of gangrene, with loss of the part. Restorative reaction can only be accomplished by the moderate and gradual application of warmth. Friction with something of nearly the same temperature as the frozen parts, fulfils this twofold indication; and thus, rubbing the part with snow is a practice both surgical as well as popular. A tingling or burning pain, and purplish redness, announce the returning circulation and tendency to inflammation. Gangrene having supervened, the separation of the slough should be left to Nature; any unnecessary interference would give a fresh start to the process of destruction, in textures reduced to a low state of vitality. ^ Amputation may become necessary, as after a burn ; the operation being performed also in point of time and situation, after the formation of the line of demarcation and above it. Yet there may be cases where the apprehension of fatal exhaustion, or of pyaemia, would warrant amputation at an earlier period.