GENERAL TATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 86 secreting sac or cyst, thin and smooth, is gradually transformed into a thick, soft spongy membrane, slightly mammillated, and of a greyish or reddish brown colour; at the same time, the matter secreted generally loses the creamy consistence of pus in an acute abscess, and becomes converted into a thinner, sanious, flocculent or flaky, yellow fluid. The sac is attached to the surrounding textures loosely or closely. They are detruded and absorbed under constant pressure by the expanding abscess, and thus also the area or size of the fluctu- ating swelling increases; slowly attaining to perhaps a considerable size. Then the swelling has become more unlike that of an ordinary acute abscess, and, owing to the thickened induration, more resembles a solid turnour, for which a chronic abscess might be mistaken by an inex- perienced surgeon. Allied to the chronic abscess is the co7i-gestive, or cold, also named lymphatic, abscess; wliich occurs, sometimes, in the cellular texture or in the glands of debilitated subjects; the part suddenly falling into suppuration, as a thin bag of matter, without any notable symptoms of abscess. Thus, in the loose cellular texture of the thigh or axilla, or in the neck, a nearly painless and perhaps colourless swelling appears, and which freely fluctuates when examined. This swelling is often of large size, and may rapidly increase ; tending to burrow beneath the integuments, and in the cellular planes between the muscles. For, unlike an ordinary chronic abscess, the circum- scribing wall of fibrin always remains thin and ill-defined; but the contained matter is similar—a thin, sanious, opalescent, yellow fluid, consisting of serum, with broken-down pus-cells, in a state of fatty degeneration. As compared with the healthy pus in an acute abscess, the matter in a chronic, or in a congestive abscess, is even more and more aplastic. Course.—In a variable period, usually before an abscess becomes chronic, absorption of the pyogenic membrane itself begins, under the expansion of constant fluid-pressure. And generally, in the direction of least resistance the abscess points; the circumferential tissues under- going absorption more readily, or yielding more, in that direction, as the expanding force there gains advantage. On the side of the abscess opposite to this thinning portion, the pyogenic membrane, according to Macartney's observations, actually grows thicker, and conti'acts so as to exercise some degree of expulsive power. A prominent point appears, tense, as with fluid ; over which the skin assumes a dark livid tint, with a shining or glazed aspect, while the cuticle is shed in receding rings. Here fluctuation is most perceptible through the thinned integument, which at length becomes relaxed. This spot varies in extent, from a small point to an area the size of a shilling, or larger; and the margin is usually circular and well defined. Soon a small slough separates and pus escapes. Thus, also, in the case of mucous membrane, an aperture is formed; but serous membrane yields with a rent. Distension is relieved, and if the aperture be sufiiciently free and dependent, or made so, the matter is discharged or drains away daily, coagulable lymph is effused instead, and forming gi-anula- tions, it contracts towards the aperture, and gradually closes the cavity of the abscess. The residual abscess is now a healing ulcer, and the process of reparation is completed in a period varying from, perhaps, twenty-four hours to days, weeks, or months. If contraction be incomplete, the sac of the abscess is brought to