EUPTURE OF MUSCLE AND TENDON. 441 interposed, indicating tlie commencement of junction between the old and new tissues. The bulbous enlargement of the old tendon-ends, occasioned by the increasing interposition of new material, gradually subsides, until they regain their former appearance, and the new and old tendon become of uniform diameter. The appearance of fine dove- tailing long; remains, being distinctly traceable a year and a half, and three years, after division of the tendon. Complete and firm junction of the new with the old tendon is established; a want of definition along the deep surface of the new tendon remaining, by adhesion between this surface of the tendon and the deep fascia. The process of reparation is completed by the re-formation of a separable sheath on the surface of the new tendon. The new tendon, homogeneous rather than fibrous in appearance, is at first vascular and ruddy, but afterwards greyish and translucent; an appearance which contrasts with the old tendon, above and below, and which is retained up to the latest period of examination hitherto made in the human subject, three years after operation. Considerable tough- ness and strength are soon acquired ; in the tendo-Achillis of a rabbit, six days after its division, a weight of 201bs. was required to sever it, and after the lapse of ten days, the rupturing weight had increased to 561bs. A linear cicatrix is supposed by Mr. Tamplin, and other observers, to be the ultimate remnant of the. bond of union; but, according to Mr. Adams's observations, this appearance is deceptive, the connective tissue or new tendon re- maining as a permanent bond during life. I'ig- 105. The greatest length of new tendon formed in the human subject is apparently, as Mr. Adams states, two inches and a quarter; and this was found in the tendo-Achillis of a girl, aged nine years, a year and a half after tenotomy. Divided muscles undergo, essentially, the same process of reparation, union by a fibro-cellular bond. Treatment.—Rest is of course requisite for union to take place; but attention to position by relaxation of the muscle or tendon, and the maintenance of that posi- tion, are equally necessary, the structure being not merely strained or stretched, but divided. These indications of treat- ment are well illustrated by the treatment of rupture of the tendo-Aoldllis. The leg is flexed, and the heel drawn up, by means of a baud attached to the shoe behind, and fastened to a belt around the lower part of the thigh. (Fig. 106.) If the relaxed position be disregarded, the uniting bond will inevitably be elongated and weak. With this result, antagonistic muscles may afterwards occasion considerable de- formity by their continued and inadequately opposed contraction Talipes varus, after operation and premature removal of the splint,