ANEURISM OF BRACHIAL, RADIAL, AND ULNAR ARTERIES. 505 its several diameters; the prolongation downwards by the biceps is cyliudriform, and about one inch and a half in diameter. The right subclavian artery is enlarged to twice its natural size from its origin to within an inch of the part where the two ligatures have been applied. Between the upper ligature and the dilated portion, the trunk of the artery is much contracted. The innominate, carotid, and the left subclavian arteries were little dilated; but the aorta was enlarged to about half more than its natural size. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneueism, of fJie Axillary Artery.—Liga- ture above and below the puncture in, or division of, the vessel is the appropriate operation. It was performed by Mr. Syme in a case of ruptured axillary artery. Ligature of the artery below the clavicle, or of the subclavian above, must be had recourse to in cases where the previous operation is impracticable, owing to the great depth of the artery or other operative diiEculty, or in the event of secondary heemor- rhage. Of 15 cases in which a ligature was applied below, or above, the clavicle, 9 were successful, and 6 died. The innominate was liga- tured by Hutin, after operation on the subclavian had failed, from secondary hemorrhage by the axillary wound, but with a fatal result in twelve hours. Beachial, Eadial, and Ulnae Aeteribs. Aneurism.—The axilla is the limit below which spontaneous aneu- rism rarely occurs in the upper extremity. But it has been met with in the brachial artery, and in this vessel at the bend of the elbow ; in . the radial and ulnar arteries, and as low down as the ball of the thumb. Aneurism in any such situation is readily recognized by the ordinary symptoms, and can scarcely be mistaken for anything else. Causes.—Some injury is usually the immediate cause, but the vessel, probably, was previously diseased. This was the condition in an. aneurism of the upper part of the ulnar artery, under the care of Mr. De Morgan, at the Middlesex Hospital. (Medical Times and Gazette, Nov. 22,1862.) The tranmatic origin of these aneurisms can generally he discovered in their history. An old ship carpenter, whilst at work, felt as if something had snapped in his arm. Mr. Listen ligatured the brachial artery. Aneurism of the radial artery at the ball of the thumb has followed an attempted reduction of dislocation. Course and Termination.—These aneurisms rarely attain any con- siderable size, and may nndergo a spontaneous cure. An aneurism of the radial artery, in a patient nnder Mr. De Morgan, recovered spon- taneously. Treatment.—Compression of the artery above the aneurism is avail- able wherever the situation offers ready resistance, and it can be borne. As regards the brachial artery, the round form of the humerus, and the nerves of the brachial plexus, forbid compression. Digital pressure may be available ; and in the aneurism referred to, of the ulnar artery, this mode of compression, maintained by the patient himself as long as he was able .for several days, much reduced the size and pulsation of the tumour. On all these aneurisms, compression tells more effectu- ally than in those of larger-sized arteries. Ligature of the artery, above the aneurism. Thus, the brachial may be tied for aneurism at the bend of the elbow ; the ulnar or radial for aneurism of these arteries ; and the latter, if the aneurism be