882 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. (Author.) Fig. 93* the line of acupressure. Thus the artery is plugged. (Fig. 93.) This clot soon undergoes stinictural changes; becoming fibrinous in its distal portion, partly fibrinous, eventually perhaps entirely so, in its proximal portion, and there adherent to the interior of the artery. Further changes I have not yet traced. But it would seem highly probable that the occluded portion of artery atrophies, and degene- rating into a fibro-cellular cord, as after ligature, thus becomes permanently obliterated. In conjunction with this series of changes, as affecting the blood in the artery, and eventually the vessel itself, there are, however, no changes at the seat of acupressure—no division of the inner and middle coats of the artery, and their inversion or reduplica- tion, and no subsequent deposition of lymph with adhesion of the divided coats of the vessel; the integrity of the artery remains unaffected by the compression of acupressure, temporarily applied, the needle serving the purpose merely of preventing the escape of blood as primary haemorrhage, while, by arrest of the passage of blood, coagulation may be induced, and thus secondary heemor- rhage prevented when the needle is ■withdrawn. A firm, fibrinous, and ad- herent clot was found to have formed within five days, and in a main artery— the femoral. In treatment by acupressure, there- fore, the proper period for the safe with- drawal of the needle may be inferred to be at that period, if not earlier; without liability to the occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. (b.) Respecting the probability of adhesion taking place between the sur- faces of a wound, the ai'teries of which are secured by acupressure; it is alleged that the needles are, as foreign bodies, merely temporary, while their material is less irritating than that of ligatures; and that they are not intended or allowed to produce sloughing of the com- pressed arteries, whereby foreign bodies of worse character, in the shape of slough-rings of the cellular coats of these vessels, are produced and remain between the raw surfaces—with, moreover, suppuration, (c.) Hence, also, the greater probability, apparently, of jjya'.mic infec- tion supervening after ligature. And certainly the observations of Professor Pirrie are here to the point, not a single instance of pyemia having occurred in his experience where acupressure has been employed by himself or his Hospital colleagues at the Aberdeen Hospital. (6.) Torsion of cut arteries is another method of arresting haemor- rhage, which may be regarded as an imitation of another natural process * Occlusion of femoral artery after Acupressure—in amputation—five days.