115 INFLAMMATION. "be made, whenever and wherever pointing has taken place, and of sufficient extent to allow a free opening for the evacuation of matter, and its discharge as secreted subsequently; these directions constituting the rule of treatment. Abscess in certain situations should be opened early ; indeed, the surgeon cannot be too alert. Thus, in parts abound- ing with loose cellular texture, as the neck, axilla, groin, neighbourhood of the anus and vagina, popliteal region, and generally in the cellular planes between muscles. So also suppuration underneath unyielding fibrous expansions, and in the sheaths of tendons. Then again, when adjacent to mucous canals or important organs; as the trachea, pharynx, thorax, abdomen, urethra, rectum, and joints. Abscess^ moreover, arising from irritant matters, as by the extravasation of urine or ffeces, should be promptly set free. Abscess in situations less acces- sible, although urgent, perhaps, in other respects, requires some delay; as with regard to the lungs, liver, spleen, kidneys, and most internal organs Fig. 28. A dependent opening, in order to facilitate the after escape of pus, has been particularly recommended, rather than an opening in the situation of pointing. But this practical injunction may be ob- served too absolutely; for where- ever matter points, there, ulti- mately, an opening will take place. If necessary, however, a depend- ent cowuier-opening may also be made, to insure the ready dis- charge of pus as it forms. To discover the presence of pus, the mode of opening an ab- scess is important. By introduc- ing a bistoury perpendicularly, a drop of matter wells up along the side of the blade, or a half-turn of the instrument will enable it to do so. The puncture thus made i is then readily converted into an i incision of sufficient extent. (Fig. 28.) This little operation may be T rendered painless by the topical influence of the ether-spray. But, by t thus freezing the integument, which is already in a low state of vitality, s sloughing is apt to follow; and this consideration may be of more c consequence than immunity from a few moments' pain. Thick and flaky pus, and especially when situated deeply, requires a proportionately more extensive incision. Extrusion of any texture, ■as muscle or fat, hindering the free evacuation of pus, may be obviated by inclining the blade of the bistoury, instead of withdrawing it, as the matter flows. Haemorrhage is usually slight and temporary. But in puncturing a deep-seated abscess, there may be some danger. Mr. Hilton, there- ^rore, recommends that an incision be made through the integuments and fascia, so as to expose any muscle under which the pus lies; the icavity of the abscess should then be penetrated by a director, along the groove of which, as a guide, a slender pair of dressing forceps being