264 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. circumstances clironic enlargement of tlio testis takes place, the symptoms are precisely the same, observes Sir B. Brodie. Dupuytren, also, was led to this conclusion by his observations. Simple glandular enlargement or hypertrophy, and atrophy, of the testicle, are also noticed by some authors. The absorbent glands, in various parts of tbe body, are liable to become enlarged, and their indurated enlargement, especially on the occiput and back of the neck, is regarded by Ricord, I believe, as diagnostic of secondary syphilis. But this condition is attributed, by other writers, only to disease of the parts in communication with such glands. (5.) Diseases of the bones, periosteum, fascia;, and ligaments are possi- ble manifestations of constitutional syphilis, advancing from the surface to deeper textures within the body; but this is a neutral ground, shared by the mercurial poison—prolonged mercurialization, by scrofula also, and by rheumatism. The question of venereal origin is open, therefore, in every case, to investigation, probably afterwards to doubt. A truly syphilitic node, for example, is usually considered to signify merely chronic enlargement of the bone itself. A hard swelling forms, without any redness of the skin in the first instance, nor for some time; eventually it becomes red and acutely painful. The syphilitic virus appears to select certain bones or portions of bones for the pro- duction of nodes ; they are mostly subcutaneous, as the inner aspect of the shaft of the tibia, the subcutaneous portion of the ulna, the sternum, clavicle, and cranium; rarely also, I have found the seat of election to be the humerus, just above the inner condyle, or the crest of the ilium. These portions of bone more especially form nodes, which become inflamed. Nodes arising from periostitis are softer, and evidently inflamed from their commencement. They are also more acute. These distinctions are time, and yet the hard chronic node is no criterion of secondary syphilis. This kind of node seldom, if ever, appears, excepting when mercury has been used, and coming, as'it does, late in the career of syphilis, has perhaps been preceded by more than one salivation. Issuing from the mixture of mercury and syphilis, one cannot say how far a chronic node is due to one or the other. Carmichael's experience led him to regard this symptom as "equivocal and uncertain." Colles notices "a general nodose affection of the bones," which is liable to be confounded with so-called syphilitic nodes. Caries and necrosis are no less doubtful evidence of constitutional syphilis. Spongy softening of the bones, denoting caries, may happen in an advanced stage of secondary syphilis, and has its chosen seats ; these being chiefly those where nodes are prone to form-—on the tibia, ulna, clavicle, sternum, and, above all, the nasal bones and cranium. But whatever bone or bones undergo carious softening, there is nothing characteristic of syphilis. Mercury as well as syphilis may be at work; and indeed we rarely, if ever, find caries in syphilitic cases, excepting where mercury has been freely used. None of the cases of syphilis which came under the observation of Guthrie, in the York Hospital, were accompanied with caries; and such was also the experience of Rose, in his series of cases, upwards of 120 in number, and where he was able to ascertain that the patients remained free from syphilis for