157 TUMOUBS OB MOBBID GBOWTHS. form of the disease; and—the cellular or special element of cancer pre- dominating—encephaloid yields on pressure an abundant quantity of " cancer-juice," which resembles milk or cream. Scirrhus, on the other hand, is far more fibrous, and therefore hard and craggy; semi-trans- parent in a thin section, and of a bluish-white or fawn colour; compara- tively little " cancer-juice " is exuded on pressing the cut surface of the fibrous stroma, and this little rather resembles thick gruel than cream, or it may be a small quantity of thin yellow serous fluid exudes; but the fibrous stroma itself contracts, whereby the cut surface speedily assumes a concave aspect, unlike the section of any other tumour, which remains level or becomes slightly convex at its margins. Colloid—in contrast vnth both the foregoing—is gelatmous, owing to the predominance of the gelatinous, intercellular matter, and in which the cells are suspended, the whole being infiltrated through a delicate fibrous stroma: it appears, therefore, either as a trembling mass, or a glairy fluid, dimly transparent, and of a greenish yellow colour. Cancer is essentially an infiltrating growth ; but while this pecu- liarity almost constantly prevails in scirrhous and colloid cancers, encephaloid becomes encysted, about as frequently as it remains free. A very thin, yet distinct fibro-cellular capsule may invest this typical form of cancer, and from which thin partitions pass into the tumour thus defined, intersecting its substance, or investing its several lobes. Generally speaking, this capsule is not adherent to the surrounding textures ; it furnishes a matrix in which numerous and tortuous blood- vessels ramify, previous to supplying the mass itself with vessels. Encephaloid is, indeed, always abundantly vascular, as compared with scirrhous and colloid, both of which are relatively destitute of blood- vessels. Lymphatic vessels have been shown by injection in medullary cancer, according to the observations of Schroeder van der Kolk, with regard to specimens of this species in the stomach and liver. Nerves probably exist in the substance of a cancerous tumour; for pain is felt in scirrhous, and less so in encephaloid cancer, when cut into during a surgical operation. This sensibility may be diie to the nerves of the part, involved in the cancer-growth. But the question of nerve supply, in point of origin, proportion and distribution, has yet to be demon- strated anatomically, by dissection. Tumour.—The investing capsule, when present, gives a definite outline to an encephaloid tumour—round, oval, spheroidal, or lobed, which contrasts with the irregular and unbounded outline of scirrhous and colloid, the infiltrating course of which is very rarely circumscribed. The boundary of either of these species of cancer is perceived rather by their degrees of consistence, as compared vnth that of the textures around the seat of infiltration. The greater vascularity of encephaloid, coupled with its capsular and therefore more isolated condition, in many cases, are circumstances favourable to a corresponding rapidity of growth, and evolution as a distinct tumour; consequently this, the typical species of cancer, frequently attains an enormous size and protrudes (Fig. 57) : whereas scirrhus, being diiferently circumstanced in these respects, remains smaller, rarely acquiring a larger size than an orange, and this rendered indistinct by infiltration of the surrounding textures. It shrinks yet smaller by their condensation and absorption, as its abundant fibrous