337 TETANUS. masses of tlic tissue, oi' porfcions separating, are left as islets iu tlie fluid. This pi-ocess of destruction affects the grey substance of the cord; perhaps its central part. (Fig. 82.) The same lesions of the cord are found in paralysis. But they are commonly unaccompanied by spasm, during life. Tetanus therefore probably differs only fi'om that disease in being associated with a morbid condition or injxiry of some of the peripheral nerves. There is generally marked congestion or inflammation of some nerve con- nected with, and leading from, a wound that has occasioned the dis- ease ; the vascularity, which may be very intense, often extending up the neurilemma to a considerable distance. In the case of a man who died from tetanus, caused by a spike-woimd of the thigh, corresponding with the anterior crural nerve to the extent of some inches, that portion of this nerve was distinctly inflamed; and my house-surgeon, Mr. Hamilton, had promptly extracted two pieces of clothing, which re- lieved the symptoms. It would therefore appear—'observes Mr. Lockharfc Clarke—that this condition or injury of the peripheral nerves is the determining cause of the phenomena, and that the spasms of tetanus depend on the conjoint operation of two separate causes. First, on an abnormally excitable state of the grey nerve-tissue of the cord, induced by the hyperaemic and morbid state of its blood- vessels, with the exudations and disintegrations resulting therefrom; This state of the cord may be either an extension of a similar state along the injured nerves from the periphery, or may result from reflex action on its blood-vessels excited by those nerves. Secondly, the spasms depend on the persistent irritation of the pervpheral nerves, by which the exalted excitability of the cord was induced. In so-called idiopatliic tetanus, arising from exposure to cold and damp, it is probable that the morbid condition of the blood-vessels of the cord results fi'om changes in the state of the peripheral nerves, which may act through reflex action or otherwise. Associated with these essential changes of structural condition in tetanus, others, which are apparently incidental, may be noticed. According to Rokitansky's observations, in cases of some days' dura- tion, a development of young connective tissue takes place in the spinal cord ; as if tetanus had resulted from inflammation of the cord, —spinal myelitis. Or, a marked vascularity of the membranes of the cord and engorgement of the veins may be found within the vertebral canal. In a case of strangulated femoral hernia, for which I operated, aU went on favourably for a week, and the incision had nearly healed; when suddenly the most violent tetanus set in, beginning with lock- jaAv, proceeding to appalling opisthotonos, and terminating fatally on the fourth day, by which time the wound had re-opened and become gangrenous. I carefully examined the cerebro-spinal axis throughout its whole extent. The intra-spinal veins were gorged with blood, but not those of the cord itself. The intestines have been found much inflamed in several cases; and in two, a yellow, waxy fluid, of a peculiar offensive odour, covered their internal surface. The pharynx and oesophagus may be much contracted, and contain a viscid reddish mucus. The muscles are usually rigid, and sometimes ruptured ; but sometimes there is no rigidity. The rise of temperature in tetanus has z