SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 678 * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 375. Fig. 292.* growth, at the same time enlarge the circumference of the bone—as in the analogous production of external callus, occasionally, during frac- ture-union. Elongation of a long bone is, sometimes, consequent on its inflammation. The tibia has thus be- come longer than its fellow by nearly two inches. The osseous substance, resulting from inflammatoiy indura- tion, is more solid, heavier, and harder than that of healthy bone, increasing even to the consistence of ivory; and the nutritious foramina are said to be in- creased in size. This state of hyijertrojjhy corresponds to the inflammatory solidification of parenchymatous organs. But, as regards bone, it is a termination by restoration to health, or something beyond the natural condition of healthy bone. (3.) SiqJiJuration oi hone— another consequence of inflammation, of an opposite character to induration—merits a separate notice ; also Caries, or ulceration of bone; and Necrosis, which is analogous to sloughing or mortification of the soft textures. Treatment.—In traumatic and a.cute inflammation of bone—whether in the form of Ostitis or Periostitis —the ordinary remedial measures for inflammation will usually suflice. Warm fomentations, leeches, and rest, with the administration of calomel and opium, are appropriate. Billroth strongly recommends iodine paint applied to the whole limb, continued until large vesicles form, and renewed when this vesication disappears. In constitiitional and chronic inflammation this treatment must be supplemented, or partly superseded, by the general treatment for secondary syphilitic affections, scrofula, or rheumatism. Iodide of potassium is thus often singularly efficacious in syj)hilitic or rheu- matic ostitis or j^eriostitis. Tension and insupportable pain are more readily and permanently relieved by free incisions, than by any medicinal treatment. In peri- osteal tension, these incisions should be made down to the bone; in tension resulting from ostitis, an incision may be prolonged, by means of a Hey's saw, through the bone, down to the medullary canal. Trephining the bone has been resorted to for the relief of osseous tension. Chronic thickening, unattended with much pain, may be re- moved or lessened by the application of blisters, iodine and mercurial ointments. SuppuEATiON OP Bone.—Suppuration, in connection with bone, is liable to take place in either of the three situations described with reference to inflammation, and it may be either diffused or circum- scribed ; these conditions being also, less definitely, acute or chronic suppuration, respectively. Thus we recognize—(1) Osteo-myelitis, diffuse suppuration of bone, within the meclullarij canal and cancelli; (2) Diffuse Periostitis, and Periosteal Abscess; and (3) Circumscribed abscess of Bone, within either the cancellated or compact structure. (1.) Osteo-myelitis.—This condition certainly occurs, and not un- frequently; but—as Mr. Holmes observes—it is less frequently recog- nized at the bedside than in post-mortem examinations. The results are disintegration of the cancellated structure (Fig. 293), and diffuse