GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 354 fanaticism; ihc " miracles " of Miss Fancourfc, and Prince Hohcnloc; and the more recent impostures of mesmerists, spiritualists, etc. But we live in^ an age whicli is essentially hysteric or sensational, whether in its social or religious aspects; and daily is the truth of Feuelon's philosophic judgment witnessed, that "the" inherent weakness of the human mind is exhibited, not so much by its disbelief in the things which are,_ as by its belief in that which is not." The diagnosis of hysterical paralysis will be gathered from the absence of any notable injury or disease, coupled with the history of the symptoms; and when they occur in past or present association with other symptoms of Hysteria, in perhaps the person of a young female who is thus affected, the Sui'geon should duly weigh all this concurrent evidence. Some such cases are brought forward for medico- legal inquiry, in actions against railway companies, for compensatory damages on account of some alleged injury to the spine, or the head, from accident. There may be indisputable evidence of some injury, and that paralytic symptoms have followed. But the difficulty in estimating the nature of the case, whether it be hysterical or organic, is due to the character of the symptoms, as evidence. They are not objective,—there is nothing to be seen or touched ; they are necessarily siobjective,—that of which the patient herself, or himself, complains. The Surgeon is compelled to accept the statements of the patient on trust, for the most part; she declares she cannot move her legs, and she is never seen to do so, that she cannot feel when either limb is pinched, and she never winces under any test of their insensibility. Add to this apparently hond-fide evidence of paralysis, the fact that the patient's natural disposition, in Hysteria, is to deceive other persons, as well as herself, and that she lives for some weeks or months under the mental impression that her case is one of great importance, daily attracting the solicitude of her friends, and engaging the interest of her medical attendant; under these fostering circumstances, the paralytic affection continues. It is unnecessary to impute any dishonourable motives to the victim of Hystei-ia; nor would any honourable member of the Pi'ofession so identify himself with his patient's case, as to become, as it were, the plaintiff in the action. But he may enter so thoroughly into the case, that the symptoms and their connection with the accident are gone over again and again; the hysteric patient, always apt to learn, thus rehearses her part, until she becomes perfect in her role. In this state she is taken into court, pallid, emaciated, and paralyzed, looking the very picture of a wreck from "railway injury;" perhaps she has a " fit " in the course of her examination in the witness-box, though that species of concomitant evidence is always undesirable; the judge may direct the jury, but the jury think, or rather feel, for themselves; and thence a verdict is given, with sub- stantial damages. I remember, in one such case, more particularly, where I had endeavoured to explain the true nature of the symptoms, with due regard to the plaintiff's suffering, as from the accident, no less than with fair consideration for the shareholders of a railway company, damages to the amount of £800 were awarded for the permanent in- jury the plaintiff had sustained. The following year, on one of the hottest days in July, I was sauntering up the hill at Richmond, my shoes sinking at each tread into the softened asphalte; a gentleman overtook mc, and recognized me with a smile; having di'opped the