FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 663 ment, just to steady it in position. The bandage should be tigktened daily as the swelling subsides. Broad strips of plaster, overlapping each other, might be used instead of the bandage, but this retentive appliance cannot be tightened v?ithout reapjjlication and disturbance of the fragments. Various other apparatus have been contrived, but they are all alike in principle, and none of them succeed in bringing about union better than the above described. Malgaigne's hoolcs are a contrivance whereby the fragments can be forcibly drawn together, and retained, by steel claws thrust into them, or just above and below them. If there be no risk of penetrating the joint with this instrument, violent synovitis is not unfrequently in- duced. I have never thus used the clamp in my own practice ; but in one case particularly, having been asked by a surgeon to see a frac- tured patella which was subjected to its grasp, I found a huge globular knee, pierced by the claws of the instrument, and surrounded by a gutter of pus. Nor is this instrument necessary, if the position of relaxation be duly observed. Malgaigne, I learn from Mr. W". Adams, has used the hooks in only 14 cases out of a large number of fractured patellfe; exce^jtional cases attended with unusually wide separation of the fragments. The hooks will be found very serviceable, and safe, for fixing the semilunar caps of gutta-percha, instead of being thrust into the bone; my own method of employing this instrument. (Fig. 272.) Comparing the two retentive appliances, it may be fairly said that the bandage in a moderately figure-of-8 form is at least equally effica- cious, and invariably safe; whereas the hooks are unnecessary, and not unfrequently perilous. With the simple, efl&cacious, and safe plan of treatment I have de- scribed, union will be so far secure in a month or six weeks as to allow the patient to move about, guarded by a back splint and starched bandage. It is not advisable to have recourse to this sub- stitute apparatus at an earlier period; simply because the yielding ligamentous union should not be strained by any muscular action in usmg the limb, or the chance of osseous union he frustrated. Even after some six weeks have elapsed, the ligamentous band continues to yield; and in the course of as many months may present an interval between the fragments of several inches, resulting in a tottering movement of the joint forwards, whenever the patient stands or walks. For jiermanent support, I have used with advantage another simple contrivance; a laced elastic knee-cap, having a leathern receptacle to compress the patella. In one case, a gentleman, of powerful muscular development and accustomed to a sporting life, was thus enabled to go about, without any further separation of the fragments.