SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. C64 This apparatus should be worn until the union has become firm and unyielding, in a period from three to six months. But in thus taking care of the fracture, the tendency to anchylosis of the joint, from inflammatory effusion, must not be overlooked. Hence, passive motion should be used judiciously, in time to prevent this result. The union-results of this mode of treatment—by position and ban- dage-retention—have been, in my own practice at least, most satis- factory. In four cases, selected as having been authenticated by notes carefully taken by Mr. John B. Poster, formerly House Surgeon at the Eoyal Free Hospital, the principal points of interest and im- portance were the following :—(1.) The fracture in all four cases was transverse," and occurred in the left patella. (2.) Three of the frac- tures were caused by miiscular action, the fourth by direct violence. (3.) The ages of the patients were fifty-six, forty-nine, forty, thirty- three. (4.) The periods when union was found to be firm, and the support of a back splint in starch used only as a precaution, were ten weeks, six weeks, eight weeks, six weeks. (5.) The extent of separa- tion between the fragments, originally, and at the end of these periods, was as follows:—Original separation, in all the cases, two inches, slightly more or less. Union-separation : one-fourth of an inch, contact, one-fourth of an inch, one-eighth of an inch. Convpound fracture of the patella rarely occurs alone. It is almost necessarily comminuted, with great injury to the joint; and results from direct violence of severe character, as some crushing force, or gunshot wound. On the other hand, the joint may be opened, but not otherwise injured; as by an incised wound, Avith an axe, hatchet, or other cutting instrument; or by a lacerated or a gunshot wound. Treatment.—Special attention has been given to compound fracture of the patella, with an analysis of 69 cases collected in an elaborate paper, by Mr. Alfred Poland (Med. Chir. Trans., 1870), from which, I think, the following indications of treatment may be safely estab- lished. In compound fracture, tmcomiilicated with fracture of the articular ends of bone forming the knee-joint, i^reservation of the joint, without or with anchylosis, should always be tried, in the .first instance. The wound is to be accurately closed with sutures, and ice applied; in the event of suppuration, free incision must be made, and a drainage tube may be used. The removal of any loose fragments is always advisable; but attached fragments had better be left, to regain adhesion, perchance, or be thrown off during suppuration. Failing to save the joint in a state of useful anchy- losis, excision should be had recourse to, secondarily, that by sacri- ficing the joint the limb may still be preserved. The complication of fracture—when the articular end of the femur or of the tibia, or of both bones, are involved—must be submitted to primary excision of the joint; but extensive crushing of the bones of the joint is the only condition which renders amimtation justifiable; and, of coui'se, it is the only resource, as a secondary operation, whenever excision has failed. Bony union seems to be a not uncommon mode of repair in com- pound fracture of the patella, and especially w^hen comminuted. Besults.—Uhe total number of cases collected by Mr. Poland is 85 ; 69 being compound fractures of the patella alone, nnd the remain- ing 16, complicated with fracture of the other bones in the joint—a