TUMOUES OR MORBID GROWTHS. 129 Fig. 30* hereditary predisposition and relations to age and sex; causes—consti- tutional and local; course, and consequences. In other words, Growths have differences of character—pathologico-anatomical, physiological and pathological, in regard to species. These differences I proceed to describe and to consider in the diagnosis, etiology, and prognosis of the various kinds of Tumours, as arranged in the foregoing table. The special Treatment of each will also be described, in illustration of the general indications already enunciated. Cysts and Cystic Tumours.—Structural Condition.—This is very varied. (1.) Cysts. " Essentially, this species of growth," observes Paget, "is a cyst, sac, or bag, filled with some substance which may be regarded as entirely, or for the most part, its product, whether as a secretion, or as an endo- genous growth." This cyst (Fig. 30), sac, or bag, is either soli- tary, or frequently aggregated with others ; and each may be free and movable, or imbedded in the substance of some other growth, thus forming a "cystic tumour." But the contents of the cyst or cysts are the chief features of distinction. Some contain fluid unorganized secretions, and are spoken of as simple, or more correctly, barren cysts. Others contain organized, endogenous growths, and these are denominated compound, or more appropriately, jproUferous cysts. (Fig. 31.) But the simple sac is the type, from which the proliferous cyst may be re- garded as a departure to a more complex condition; and between the former in its simplest state of development, and the latter in its most anomalous condi- tion, each intermediate variety 1 may be distinguished by the < contents of the cysts, and the y whole arranged in a tolerably « even series of progressive or- g ganization. Fig. 31. t * A simple cyst in the broad ligament of the uterus, with very vascular walls —o.JNew vessels, h. Broad ligament. 30 diam. (Wedl.) tn tirf '^^p VuV^ ^ mammary gland.—A vascular growth is seen attached 10 part ot the inner surface of the cyst. Below is a smaller cyst nearly filled with Bizr^Pagto'''" ^"^'^"^"^'^^'^ Three'fourtSrthe natural