GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 260 than syphilitic eruptions themselves. Moreover, when present in un- doubtedly syphilitic skin-diseases, it does not superveue until their decline. The eruptions which follow this first efflorescence on the skin, ex- hibit a variety of appearances. Lichen, a papular eruption.—The papillas of the skin are enlarged separately, in the form of hard elevations having a copper-colour, which terminate by desquamation or resolution. These elevations may be scattered irregularly over the body, or collected together into groups. Tubercular eruption.—Effusion of plastic lymph having taken place, it becomes organized, as in the papular eruption, but now in the form of small and tense conical eminences, covered with a red shining cuticle ; which, gradually acquire a copper tint, and shed their shining silvery scales of cuticle. Tiie tubercles may be scattered singly over the surface, or aggregated into groups. Lepra, a scahj eruption, commences, like the mottled skin of roseola, by the injection of circular groups of papillae. The papilla? are at first separate, but soon the whole circular patch becomes equally involved; an effusion takes place into the substance of the skin, which then pre- sents a small flat elevation, the edges of which are sometimes raised higher than the centre. A copper colour, of a more or less decided hue, overspreads the eruption, but it is often partially masked by a thin layer of cuticle, which is shed in thin white shining scales, as in common lepra. Numerous patches, all perfectly circular, may form on any part of the body. Patches of syphilitic lepra sometimes much resemble flattened syphilitic tubercles. Psoriasis—another scaly eruption—appears in tbe form of oval or irregular patches, slightly elevated above the surface. They are not depressed in the centre, and are often traversed by cracks or fissures. A copper or brown colour is often observable, but covered with epithe- lial scales of various degrees of thickness. This disease is much more persistent than syphilitic lepra. It occurs on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, or on any part of the body. Vesicular eruptions, as manifestations of constitutional syphilis, are similar to, if not identical with, vesicular eruptions not of syphilitic origin. Thus, in point of their origin only, we recognize syphilitic herpes, eczema, and pemphigus or pompholyx. In all, an effusion of serous fluid raises the cuticle into vesicles, or blebs—bulljB, which are simply large vesicles such as form in the last-named form of eruption. But the diagnostic characters of syphilitic vesicular eruptions are even less peculiar than those of the eruptions already noticed. Pustular eruptions constitute also an analogous class to the non- syphilitic. They, like eruptions generally, may arise from the trans- formation of other eruptions, in the course of syphilis. Thus, the papular may change into the vesicular, and this pass into pustular. The proper pustular eruptions of syphilitic origin are divided by Cazenave into three kinds :— (a.) Psydraceo'us pustules, which are either small and narrow, or of large size, elevated, and round. They have a hard base, and are sur- rounded by a copper-coloured areola. The pustules ai-e of a dull reddish hue, and are developed in successive crops; showing examples of the disease in its origin, maturity, and decline. Tjeir progress is slow, and the accompanying inflammation moderate. In some cases,