ANEURISM OF GLUTEAL, SCIATIC, AND PUDIC ARTERIES. 509 mucous membrane tlirougliorit nearly tlie whole of tlie small and large intestines was of a yellow colour and dead ; this condition being most marked over the valculse conniventes, in places it involved all the coats. The intervening parts of the intestine were intensely congested. Gluteal, Sciatic, and Pudic Aeteries. Aneuetsm.—Symptoms.—The three chief branches of the internal iliac artery are, each, liable to spontaneous aneurism; but the sciatic and pudic arteries are very rarely affected. An aneurism of the pudic artery is preserved in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons (specimen 1701). It is about the size of a walnut, and contains laminated fibrine. The gluteal artery is more liable to aneurism. Its symptoms are not peculiar ; but the situation of the pulsating tumour is the posterior part of the buttock, where the gluteal artery emerges from the sacro- sciatic notch of the ilium. (Royal Coll. Surg. Mus.) As compared with pulsatile tumour of the ilium, the diagnosis must be guided by the distinctions already noticed. Encephaloid cancer may simulate aneurism, as happened in a case under the care of Mr. Guthrie, who ligatured the common iliac artery. Treatment.—Ligature of the Internal Iliac.—This operation, first performed in 1812, by Dr. Stevens, has since been repeated in other cases. Of these five were unsuccessful, four successful, including one wherein the peritoneum was accidentally wounded. Wounds, and Traumatic Aneurism, of the Gluteal Artery.—Diffused aneurism of enormous size may follow a wound of the gluteal artery. The famous case of punctured wound of this vessel, as related by John Bell, well illustrates the form of aneurism thence arising over the buttock. Treatment.—Double ligature of the vessel at the seat of injury. This operation proved thoroughly successful in the above case. The incision over the tumour was two feet in length, and eight pounds of blood were turned out of the sac; but the man ultimately " walked stoutly," and regained good health. In a case operated on by Mr. Syme, the base of the tumour had attained the size of a man's head, it occupied the whole hip, and rose into a blunt cone. The result was successful. Common Femoral Arteet. Aneurism.—Symptoms.—The pulsating tumour of aneurism of the common femoral trunk arises in the groin, but it may pass partly up- wards into the abdomen. Situated, otherwise, external to the pelvis (Fig. 138), the characters of aneurism are more readily perceptible than when the tumour is internal. Its pressure-effects are evinced by pain in the groin and down the thigh, the genito-crural and branches of the anterior crural nerves being affected ; and oedema of the leg supervenes, owing to compression of the femoral and saphena veins. The diagnosis must still have regard to the possibility of abscess or a cyst pulsating in connection with the artery; and that of a pulsating tumour of tlie ilium. Inguinal aneurism has been punctured by mistake for abscess; and cases of pulsating tumour simulating aneu- rism in the groin have occurred to both Mr. Stanley and Mr. Syme. But the pulse below an aneurism, as compared with the pulse in the