698 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. * St. Bartholomew's Hosp. Mus., 1, 35. perliaps with some excurvation and bending forwards of the femurs, and corresponding deformities of the thighs ; thus altogether present- ing the rickety and bandy-legged appearance familiar to experience. Sometimes, the opposite curvatures take place : incurvation of the legs and of the thighs, with a knock-kneed condition, and flat feet everted. (Fig, 318.) Occasionally, the curvatures have an opposite direction in the two limbs ; a general excurvation on one side, with incurvation on the other side. When the child crawls about habitually on his hands and knees, the bones of the upper extremities are no less liable to deformities, and at an early period. The constitutional symptoms are those of general debility, evinced more especially by night-sweats, affecting the head in particular, with a remarkable tender- ness or sensitiveness of the whole cutaneous surface of the body. The Causes of this disease are obscure. It would appear to be a condition of imperfect formation of the osseous texture; rickets never arising after the bones have become fully ossified and consolidated; nor, indeed, after the age of puberty. It is a disease of childhood or infancy, and possibly commencing in foetal life; although its results remain in the adult. As arising from mal-nutrition, rickets is eminently a constitutional disease, although manifested principally in the osseous system. Thus, observes Sir W. Jerner, it is no more a disease of the bones than is typhoid fever a disease of the intestines. Consecjuences.—In an early stage, before the disease is established, rickety deformities may disappear under favourable Fig. 319.* hygienic circumstances and treatment. At a later period, the bones become strengthened by osseous deposit in the parts most requiring support; the long bones acquiring increased thickness in their small curvatures, and the deposition extending even into the interior, so as to par- tially obliterate the medullary canal. (Fig. 319.) The epiphyses become thickened at the wrist, giving the ai^pearance of a " double-joint," owing to a second depression in the skin, above the radial epiphysis. Nodular enlargements form on the anterior ends of the ribs, at the junction of the costal cartilages; and lying regularly one under another, they present the appear- ance named the "rachitic rose-garland." Unlike the tendency to periostitis and ostitis, in scrofula, rachitic periosteal and osteal thickenings never end in suppuration. Fracture, and more often incom- plete or green-stick fracture, is liable to occur; but bony union generally takes place, and in the usual period. Treatment.—The primary indication obviously is, to supply the deficient earthy matter ; and so, probably, arrest the disease. But no knovra medicinal preparation seems to have this effect. The phosphates of lime, or lime-water, have been administered; but in several instances I tried them without any perceptible result. Iron and quinine, combined with cod-liver oil, often prove mor.e beneficial. These medicinal tonics, with due regulation of the bowels, nutritious diet, pure air, sea-bathing, frictions, and other means for improving the general health, con- stitute the most effectual plan of treatment. The nitro-muriatic acid