199 DEGENERATIONS. start up, leaving the intervening mucous membrane merely yellow. These points are the amyloid degenerate villi. Waxy and fatty degenerations are frequently combined, as in the liver and kidney respectively; but a series of analyses, chiefly by Dr. Drummond, and collected by Gairdner,* has elicited this important o-eneral result:—that the human liver in the state of waxy degenera- tion contains considerably less fat and water, and a greater amount of solid constituents, than in the healthy state. (5.) Grranular degeneration is manifested by an albuminous matter —granular, i.e., structureless, and, it is said, deposited interstitially; but superseding the proper structural elements of the texture, which atrophy and disappear. Thence the original texture becomes con- verted into a granular mass. With this degenerative transformation, the texture loses its cohesion, and also acquires an opaque yellow- ish colour. It is apparently identical with what Bennett denominates "molecular albumen," and a variety of "albuminous degeneration." I am inclined to regard tliis degeneration as being, more correctly speaking, a disintegration of the structural elements of the original texture, without the deposition, of any new granular or molecular albuminous matter. It chiefly affects the fibrous textures or fibrous new formations; either of which by their disintegration would yield this kind of matter, and present the physical characters of yellowish opacity and want of cohesion already noticed. (6.) Calcareous degeneration—the lowest form of all—approximates organized textures to unorganized concretions. The new matter con- sists of phosphate of lime and magnesia, and carbonate of lime. This matter also is said to be deposited interstitially in the original texture, the structural elements of which, having atrophied, are gradually superseded; thus completing that substitution of texture which con- stitutes a degenerative transformation. Rokitansky regards calcareous degeneration as a chemical precipitation of the apparently new mineral matters from their natural combinations with the animal matters of the texture. This view is analogous to what I have denominated the disintegration of organized matter; and still more so to degeneration by absorption of one structural constituent of a compound texture, and thence the evolution of another such constitnent. Calcareous degeneration takes place in tissues of simple organiza- tion and of low vitality in respect of blood-supply and nutrition. For example, in fibrous textures, in cartilage and fibro-cartilage, and in bone; the mineral transformations of these textures constituting that natural petrifaction whereby, as age advances, the body is slowly yet surely reduced to its primitive earth. Bat this degeneration is not unfrequently secondary to some other; commonly consequent on the fatty metamorphosis, and of the arteries, principally. Atheroma in the coats of these vessels, or in the valves of the heart, is followed by calcareous degeneration, so that both become associated in the same portion of texture; as was noticed in connection with fatty degenera- tion. The calcification of nerve-texture is seldom met with in the human species. Of deposits, tubercle is most liable to calcify, as in the pulmonary texture, and the tuberculous matter deposited in the bronchial and lymphatic glands. This change would seem to arise * " Monthly Journal of Medical Science," May, 1854.