INCISED WOUND. 361 going this change; and ifc was Avifcli liim tlie mode of " union by tlie first intention." Subsequently, tbe organizability of blood was dis- puted by Mr. Travers and otlier obser^^ers. Now, liowever, ifc is amply confirmed by tbe microscopic observations o£ Zwicky, Paget, and Dr. W. T. Gaii'dner, not to mention others. I allude to observations such as these :—the organization of blood effused in serous sacs, particularly in the arachnoid; of clots in veins being converted into fibrous cords, or having evinced less constructive powei", degenerating into phlebo- liths ; clots forming distinct tumours in the heart and arteries ; and the clot above a ligature on an artery becoming part of the fibrous cord which constitutes the impervious portion of artery. Sir James Paget thus estimates the function of blood in the repair of injuries :—1. It is neither necessary nor advantageous to any mode of healing. 2. A large clot, at all exposed to the air, irritates and is ejected. 3. In more favourable conditions, the effused blood becomes enclosed in the accumulating reparative material; and while this is organizing, the blood is absorbed. Lastly, it is probable that the blood may be organized and form part of the reparative material; but even in this case it jorobably retards the healing of the injury. Organization.—The process of organization which coagulable lymph undergoes, is briefly as follows:—Mhro-cellular or connective tissue is formed, but in either of two different ways, or by both processes of development simultaneously; and the particular mode of lymph-develop- ment is determined chiefly by the circumstance of exposure or not to the air. Lymph effused for the repair of open wounds generally de- velops itself into fibro-ceUular tissue, through nucleated cells (Fig. 83), Fig, 83.* which elongate into spindle-shape, or fusiform cells, and thence into filaments (Pig. 84); while that effused for the repair of siibcutaneous wounds as generally develops itself into this tissue, through the * Incised wound of the cornea in a rabbit; after three days. Union by emi- CBufroth ) ^^^^^^^ fibre-cells in the adjoining connective tissue. 300 diam. t Cicatrix of iuciscd wound in the lip of a rabbit; after nine days. Union by nDie-ceiis, tusitonn, resulting in connective tissue. 300 diam. (Billroth.)