DEFOEMITIES OF ARM AND HAND. 831 general treatment for hysteria, as noticed in connection witli Deformi- ties of the Arm and Hand. Paralytic wry-neck may perhaps be rectified by electricity, and other measures for the restoration of nervo-muscular action. A steel- spring cravat, or other contrivance for supporting the head, is the only mechanical resource available. Disease of the cervical vertebrae, as the cause of wry-neck, can be remedied only by the measures—medicinal, dietetic, and hygienic- appropriate for the particular constitutional condition; and by wearing a well-adjusted, supporting, and slowly rectifying apparatus. Strabismus or Squint.—A want of parallelism in the axes of the eyes, whenever both are directed to an object at the same time. This habitual malposition of the eyes results from irregular action of the internal or external rectus muscle; the one producing convergent strabismus—the eye being directed towards the nose ; the other, diver- gent strabismus—the eye being directed towards the temple. Either form of strabismus may be single; double, when both eyes converge or diverge. The latter direction is rare, and consequent on loss of sight in one eye, which has lasted for years. Causes.—Strabismus may arise from a cause remote in some distant part of the body, of which the squint is symptomatic ; or from various local conditions pertaining to the eye; but more frequently from the former class of causes. Thus, this affection arises from intestinal irritation or teething; or from disease of, or relating to, the brain, as hydrocephalus. It may be consequent on certain blood conditions, as measles or scarlatina, among the eruptive fevers. Inflammatory or other diseases of the eyeball, conjunctiva, or eyelids represent the class of local causes. Extreme shortness of sight, compelling the patient to converge both eyes in looking at near objects, may also induce strabismus; and it sometimes results from the influence of insensible imitation. Treatment.—Removal of the cause, in any case, will probably restore the regular and equal action of the recti muscles. Hence, any source of irritation in the intestinal canal or elsewhere should be sought for, and removed, if practicable. Persistent causes render this principle of treatment impracticable, and strabismus must then be rectified as an effect, by division of the contracting muscle. This operation, first introduced in 1840, has since been modified. It now consists in suh- conjunctival division of the muscle affected; commonly the internal rectus. The details of this procedure are described in the chapter on Diseases of the Eye. Deformities of Arm and Hand.—Contraction of the muscles of the upper extremity differs from those of the lower extremity, in so far as the individual muscles of their analogous parts perform functional movements, more delicate, varied, and complex. Various muscles may be affected, producing deformities which correspond to their respective functions. Thus, contraction of the biceps is accompanied with permanent flexion of the arm, or the extensors of the forearm, the flexors of the fingers, or those of the wrist, or the pronators, may be severally engaged. As affecting the fingers, muscular contractions produce forms of club-hand. Hysterical contractions are met witli, and either of a spasmodic or tonic character; but these muscular affections are distinguished by an absence of any evidence of local