TALIPES OR CLUB-FOOT. 839 Fig. 457. duced, at either side of the tendon, about an inch above its insertion into the calcaneum; passing beneath the tendon to its opposite side, the knife is withdrawn through the tendon slowly, or division may be effected by pressure with the edge of the blade, the tendinous fibres yielding with a creaking resistance, while, at the same time, the fore-finger of the left hand is applied over the tendon gently, just to give warning of the approach of the blade to the surface. The foot at once comes into position, or is readily brought down by extension with the hand, as the tendon is divided. (Fig. 457.) Scarcely more than a drop or two of blood escapes externally, and the puncture is closed by a small pad of lint. The apparatus for extension is known by the name of Scarpa's shoe, or its faodification by Liston. Liston's shoe was provided with two curved levers. (Fig. 458.) The form of apparatus, or shoe, generally used for talipes equinus, is here represented. (Fig. 459.) It consists of a steel splint on the oater side of Pig. 458. Fig. 459. the leg, with a foot support; both of which are secured by padded belts around the leg and foot. At the connection of the splint and foot-board, a joint with a cog-wheel, worked by a key, regulates the extension. Stromeyer postponed extension until the puncture-wound had healed, and then applied it gradually. Both rules are still observed by Little and other authorities. A pliant splint of pasteboard or metal is applied, after the operation, to retain the foot in its former position. On the fourth day, extension may be commenced, and it should be continued gradually until completed in about a month. Union of the tendon thus becomes more perfect, and without entailing any risk of recurring deformity; the new portion of tendon being elongated to a proper length, without weakening it, while the alterations, articular and ligamentous, are slowly overcome. Walking may be resumed as soon as the movements of the foot are regained, without any tendency to relapse—in, say, six weeks or two months ; the period of rest required being, of course, much lessened by wearing the precautionary apparatus