GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 94 some temporary cause may accelerate the inflammation; a larger por. tion of tissue undergoes degeneration and dies than can disappear aa discharge, and this portion of dead tissue becomes visible in the shape of slough, instead of having been removed imperceptibly by molecular disintegration and liquefaction, aided by the corrosive action of the ichorous secretion. Accordingly the ulcer presents a rim of slough, and from time to time, another and another, as the margin of the ulcer recedes and enlarges, either by sloughing or ulceration. Of course the sloughs will vary in their depth and extent, sometimes approaching the result of molecular disintegration, sometimes appearing as ob- viously portions of dead tissue, plainly showing the transition of ulceration to mortification. Small fragments of bone may be detached and cast off with the fluid from an ulcerating surface, and these, observes Paget, when they are not fragments of tissue detached by ulceration extending around them, are good examples of the transition that may be traced from ulceration to sloughing or gangrene of parts. Continued inflammation ends either in ulceration or mortification. And indeed the very fact of pus—a product of inflammation—accumu- lating in any texture or organ, by progressive suppuration, necessarily implies the death and removal of the occupied portion. But the determination and kind of blood, the kind of texture, and the nervous influence on the part, are each or all of them so modified as to bave a tendency to death. The determination of blood may be more intense, or the kind of blood may be that which indicates the operation of some blood-poison, or at least a morbid condition of the blood, as in carbuncle and boil, phlegmonous erysipelas, sloughing bubo, and certain secondary syphilitic ulcerations, hospital gangrene, malignant pustule, malignant scarlatina, and small-pox. Unyielding textures are liable to gangrenous inflammation, owing apparently to strangulation of the capillary vessels, consequent on effusion which cannot be accommodated interstitially. Inflammation of any texture situated beneath one of this kind, as beneath a fascia or tendinous aponeurosis, has also a gangrenous tendency, and thus subpericranial inflammation is soon followed by gangrene and sloughing, exposing the scalp. But inflammation of a loose texture, if a comparatively avascular one, as the subcutaneous cellular tissue, is prone to sloughing, owing apparently to strangulation of the vessels, consequent on the ready accumulation of effusion, e.g., in phlegmonous erysipelas. The influence of the nervous system is shown by the tendency to sloughing from injury to the spine. Mortification of the ankle has thence fol- lowed within twenty-four hours. (Brodie.) Ulceration of a part may supervene on injury of the nerves leading thereto; a central penetrating ulcer of the cornea was thus formed in consequence of destruction of the trunk of the trigeminal nerve by the pressure of a tumour near the pons varolii. (Paget.) And in another case, under my own observation, in the Royal Free Hospital, a similar ulcer of the left cornea followed an injury to the posterior part of the left side of the head. There was also considerable injection of the conjunctival vessels, and mucous secretion. These symptoms ceased, and the nicer healed, leaving a slight opacity in the centre of the cornea. Other illustrative cases arc on record. • The Signs of gangrenous inflammation arc—Ucutc burning pain,