Fig. 103. 435 WHITLOW OR PARONYCHIA. and hands, the circulation sliould be restored very gradually, by friction and warmtb. Ourative treatment must depend on the state of the part. When chilblains are unbroken, the congestive inflammation may be brought to resolution, by daily frictions with stimulating embrocations, as of camphor or tincture of iodine, and soap liniment. The old-fashioned remedy, brandy and salt, should not be despised. Intolerable itching sometimes admits of relief by lead-lotion, or opiate ointment. Vesicated chilblains may be protected by a coating of collodion and castor-oil varnish. Ulcerated chilblain must be treated by poulticing rendered stimulating by admixture with spirits of wine, or turpentine, until any slough separates ; and then the dressing may be resin ointment, or other topical applications, as for any other weak or indolent ulcer. Whitlow or Parontchia.—An asthenic inflammation o£ the dense fibro-cellular tissue forming the pulp of the finger or thumb ; this part becomes acutely painful, tense and hard, swollen so as to give a globular appearance to the end of the finger, and of a reddisb colour. The inflammation and swelling are always diffuse — unlike phlegmon ; and it tends also to suppuration and sloughing of the cellular texture, thus also differing in its termination. (Fig. 103.) ]S"ecrosis of the ungual phalanx is not an uncommon event, in prolonged cases. Whitlow occurs spon- taneously in persons of a naturally weak or of a debilitated constitution, affecting both young and old, and either sex. Occasionally, it seems to have an epidemic character, appearing in many persons without any trau- matic cause; and perhaps at certain seasons, as in the spring. But it arises frequently from some local irritation, as a puncture, scratch, or inoculation with some poisonous matter. Hence, it is more frequently met with in connection with certain occupations, as in cooks, washerwomen, and grooms. Whitlow, involving the slieath of the tendons, is a more severe form of this affection. It is attended with greater swelling of the whole finger, spreading to the hand, which becomes much puffed and enlarged. Violent throbbing in the finger, and shooting pain up the arm, are soon experienced; but the redness is not intense, and the end of the finger, particularly if the cuticle be thick, and the palm of the hand hardened by work, may assume a dull-white appearance— Boddeaed, perhaps, by poulticing. Some inflammation of the lym- phatics, denoted by red lines extending up the arm, not unfrequently accompanies this form of whitlow, and with much low feverishness or constitutional disturbance. Diffuse suppuration takes place in the sheath of the tendons, speedily involving the palm, and may even spread up the forearm, under the annular ligament. The swelling has an elastic character, but distinct fluctuation is obscure. Slougliing ensues, not only of the cellular texture of the finger and hand, but also of the tendons and palmar fascia. Neci'osis of the phalanges results; or a matted state of the part, with a rigid and contracted state of the finger and perhaps of the palm, rendering the hand useless.