417 MORBID CICATRICES. witli 64 per cent., after amputation in tlie thigh, during the American War. The method o£ amputation—whether by the circular operation, or by flaps—is a question worthy o£ consideration, principally with reference to circumstances, relative to the operator and the patient after operation. Thus, in amputations on the field, and performed necessarily under the pressure of time, flap amputation is more expeditious ; but if time permit, and the patient is likely to be con- veyed to some distance soon after operation, circular amputation will be preferable, considering that heavy, and perhaps swollen flaps, shaken by the motion of carriage, are apt to loosen and become gan- grenous. This difficulty was experienced during the Crimean cam- paign, among the cases of amputation subjected to journey by land, and even when the patients were conveyed by sea, in the transports to Scutari. The general treatment, hygienic and medicinal, in relation to gun- shot wounds, is the same as, under similar circumstances, with regard to other contused or lacerated Wounds, Compound Fracture, and Dislo- cation. Hygienic measures are chiefly important, and they claim special attention in Military Camp Hospitals; where, owing to the contingencies of warfare, regimen, ventilation, and general cleanliness are more than usually liable to be defective. CHAPTER XIX, MORBID CICATRICES. Morbid Cicatrices are either failures of reparation in the healing of Wounds and Ulcers, or various conditions of its results, in the form of faulty cicatrices. They comprise:—(1) Deficient Cicatrix; (2) Excessive Cicatrix; (3) Painful Cicatrix ; (4) Ulceration, Grrowths, and Degenerations of Cicatrix. (1.) Deficient Cicatrix. — A thin, flat, shining, reddish, easily wrinkled and cracked scar remains, after the imperfect heaUng of a weak ulcer or scrofulous sore. Such a result depends obviously on deficient reparative power of cicatrization. Treatment.—Pencilhng with nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, or other stimulant application, and protection of the surface from any external occasion of inflammation or injury, constitute the most probably successful topical treatment. At the same time, the general health must be improved as far as possible, thus having regard to the constitutional causative condition. (2.) Excessive, and Exuberant or Glieloid Cicatrix.—An opposite con- dition to the preceding; this form of cicatrix is thick, more or less projecting, irregular, dense, and perhaps adherent. Contraction of such a cicatrix is not an uncommon character, and the force thus exerted may be so powerful and long continued, as to produce great displace- ment and deformity. This result usually follows cicatrization after a burn, particularly if it be deep and extensive. 2 E