GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 288 Diagnosis.—Two forms of inflammation affecting the subcutaneous cellular texture—the one diffuse, the other circumscribed—must be distinguished from phlegmonous erysipelas. GdlulUis sometimes occurs in the form of a subcutaneous and diffuse inflammation, which so far resembling phlegmonous erysipelas, these two diseases are asso- ciated, according to the pathology of some authors. But, as in the diagnosis of other diseases, no constant differences of character can possibly be referable to diseases of essentially the same nature. Thus, cellulitis may bo recognized by a diffuse, oedematous, and spreading swelling, with the ahsence of cutaneous inflammation; there being perhaps scarcely the slightest blush of redness in the skin, although the pain is severe. The skin may become secondarily involved, by advance of the cellular inflammation from beneath upwards; but the subcutaneous cellular tissue is primarily and essentially the seat of the inflammation. Cellulitis arises from various blood-poisons; which may be introduced, either through a poisoned wound, or by atmospheric influence affecting any wound, or gain access to the circulation through inhalation. Thus, the etiology of diffuse cellular inflammation' comprises the blood-poisoning from a snake-bite or a dissection wound; and in the idiopathic form of the disease, as unconnected with any wound or surgical operation. But the disease does not appear to be the offspring of infection, or to have an infectious character. The febrile disturbance in cellulitis is more profoundly of the typhoid type, than in phlegmonous erysipelas; it runs its course more rapidly, and the exhaustion is more overwhelming, and generally fatal. The etiology and constitutional symptoms may, therefore, be taken in conjunction with the characters of the cellular inflanimation, as a wider ground of diagnosis between these diseases. Phlegmonous inflammation contrasts with phlegmonous erysipelas in certain particulars, and which determine their diagnosis—a question of much importance. Circumscribed and limited infiltration of the subcutaneous cellular tissue with coagulating lymph is the essential pathological condition peculiar to phlegmon. It is an inflammation of the cellular texture jjrimarily, the skin being only secondarily involved; whereas phlegmonous erysipelas selects, first, the skin, and then in- volves the subcellular tissue. Coagulating lymph, rather than serum, is effused in phlegmon; the consequent swelling is therefore circumscribed and limited, instead of being diffused and wide-spreading; it is also braiuny in the first instance, that of phlegmonous erysipelas becomes so gradually; lastly, respecting the issue of these two species of inflam- mation, that of erysipelas is prone to slough, while that of phlegmon is liable only to this termination. It seems unnecessary to add a third form of Erysipelas—the " oede- matous " of some pathologists, for the phlesfmonous form is itself oedematous in one stage of its career. In both, a diffused infiltration of the subcutaneous cellular texture with serum is conspicuous, and the pitting of this oedema on pressure with the finger is its most distinctive character. Erysipelas may spread from the scalp and face to the neck, thence to the thorax, and occasionally extend as far as the extremities; or it may begin in some other part than the head and face—such as the leg, sometimes the trunk. In whatever part of the body Erysipelas first shows itself, its characters and course are similar; but while