321 SNAICE-BITES. drauglit of cold air, all noise and conversation. Narcotics, such as opium and belladonna, have alike been tried in vain. But chlorofoi-m has often given relief. The application of an ice-bag along the whole length of the spine seems to have some influence in allaying the excitability of the cord; while stimulants and nourishment support the patient in the exhatistion consequent on the convulsive paroxysms. Snake-Bites.—Of Poisoned Wounds, in the ordinary sense, the bites of venomous snakes, happily of rare occuiTence in this country, possess much surgical interest; chiefly with the view of preventing their con- stitutional effects, rather than the more hopeless intention of curing them. The local effect of a poisoned wound is essentially cellulitis; inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular texture, announced by acute burning pain, accompanied with some, and perhaps, subsequently, enormous diffused sweUing, not at first involving the skin. In severe cases the swelling spreads rapidly, and to an almost unlimited extent, so widely may it range. The bite of the viper, occasionally found in England, and that of the rattlesnake, the cobra di capello, the whip-cord snake, the phoorsa- snake, the tobacco-pipe snake, and the puff-adder, of Eastern countries, answer to this general description. Local Condition.—A piercing pain is immediately felt, rapidly shoot- ing through the limb; swelling quickly succeeds, and a mottled livid redness, indicating that the skin is now involved. The cellular texture of the whole limb, and perhaps down the proximate side of the trunk, becomes gorged with a bloody sanious fluid ; and, as if to relieve this tense yet diffused swelling, phlyctenaB arise here and there. Very shortly the pain abates, the tension is exchanged for a flaccid softness, the Hmb is cold and benumbed; while patches of gangrenous skin announce that the work of destruction has commenced, not however disclosing the ravages already wrought beneath the skin in the sub- cellular texture, and still less the extent to which it may eventually be saciificed. Constitutional Disorder.—Rapidly as all this mischief is accomplished, the constitutional disturbance begins almost concurrently with the first introduction of the poison. Soon after the poisonous bite has been inflicted, symptoms of muddling intoxication ensue. The victim mumbles incoherently, and staggering, as if dead-drunk, is overcome with helpless prostration and oppressed breathing. Other and even peculiar symptoms are witnessed. Profuse cold sweating, bilious vomiting, and perhaps evacuations of bile ; while a yellow hue over- casts the skin. Excruciating pain about the navel is sometimes experienced. The pulse quivers irregularly, the nervous system suc- cumbs to the potent poison, and the sufferer expires. Now, in order to prevent this fatal issue, and, moreover, the for- midable antecedent systems, remember that the poison begins to operate almost immediately, varying in this respect, however, with the dose. Still its_ period of latency is short. Period of Latency.—In one case—carefully recorded by Sir E. Home—a man was bitten by a rattlesnake at half-past two p.m., and brought to St. George's Hospital, by three o'clock; during this brief period of only half an hour the constitutional disturbance had become overwhelming; and in the interval, when the man went of his own accord to a chemist's shop for relief, he was observed to stagger, and T