402 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. also, penetration of an artery, with the formation of traumatic aneurism, may complicate a gunshot wound in any part. Penetration of ^ the brain complicates a gunshot wound of the skull; and similar injury of the lung or heart, or of one or more of the abdominal viscera, complicates a gunshot wound of the thoracic or abdominal cavities in either such case. Compound Fracture or Compound Dislocation not unfrequently complicate the more severe forms of gunshot injury. The course of a ball in the body is determined by its shape and velocity. The round musket-ball—formerly in use and propelled with a velocity which scarcely reached eighty yards, revolving, also, on its axis, at right-angles to its transit—was turned aside by the slightest obstacle. On striking the body, the resistance offered by clothing, or, on penetrating the skin, by a bone, and, indeed, the different resisting media of different structures, would deflect the ball from its course, and make it assume a circuitous and perchance most extraordinary route; ultimately lodging in the body in many cases. Now-a-days, the cylindro-conoidal rifle-bullet, generally nsed, and pro- pelled with a velocity true at 1000 yards or more, pursues its course straight through the body, and out again, in most cases. An apparent deviation is sometimes due to the Surgeon omitting to view the patient in the position he was when the ball entered; and occasionally, though rarely, a real deviation, possibly a circuitous course, is caused by an accidental concurrence of circumstances, especially when the velocity of a conoidal bullet has become diminished. Of the various textures, none suffer so much damage as bone by the penetration of a conoidal bullet. Piercing and passing through the soft parts, it splits and comminutes any bone in its way, producing fissures which extend into neighbouring joints ; the gi^eater destructiveness of this shaped projectile resulting from its wedge-like action, and the peculiar resistance offered by the osseous texture. The bullet itself becomes somewhat changed in shape; its apex being flattened and reverted, if it strikes point-blank; or planed from its apex towards its base, when it strikes parallel to its line of flight. Foreign bodies, of various kinds, are often lodged in a gunshot wound, and not unfrequently lie deeply buried; thus constituting another complication. The lodgment of any foreign body is determined by its shape and velocity, chiefly by the latter circumstance. A conoidal ball, with a considerably reduced speed before entering the body, will lodge, more or less deeply; while a round ball, although at full speed, having taken a circuitous route in the body, may become expended, and thus effect a lodgment. Bullets scattered from canister or spherical case, are liable to lodge ; owing apparently to distux-bance of their course in the primary discharge, and secondarily, by explosion of their containing case. Grape-shot lodge occasionally, and possibly after a very devious course in the body. More rarely, a cannon-ball lodges, and remains concealed. A ball weighing 8 lbs. was buried in the thigh, and dis- covered only by amputation. (Gruthrie.) In another case, a ball weighing 5 lbs. was found also in the thigh by amputation. (Larrey.) Penetrating fragments of shell, if projected edgeways, almost invariably lodge, and are frequently concealed; of which some remarkable in- stances are mentioned by Mr. Longmore. In exceptional cases, a small scale may be detached from a leaden