GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, 268 remarkably unsightly appearance in the laugh of childhood, until the permanent ones are cut. The permanent teeth are more peculiarly affected; chiefly the upper incisors, and first the central ones. They are discoloured, short, peggy, rounded at the angles, standing apart with inter- spaces, or converging ; and marked, on their margin, with a deep broad notch. (Fig. 79, show- ing two upper and four lower permanent incisors, recently cut, in a girl, the subject of inherited syphilis.) They readily disintegrate, crumble, and wear down. After the period of infancy, the individual peculiarities of physio- gnomy and appearance of the skin, by which the subject of inherited taint may be recognized, are, as Mr. Hutchinson observes, the conse- quences of specific inflammations which the patient has undergone at former periods; e.g., the synechias and lustreless iris of irilis, the malformed teeth of periostitis of the alveolus and dental sacs, the protuberant forehead of hydrocephalus, the flattened nose of snuffles, the pale, earthy, opaque skin of cutaneous eruptions. If in infancy the child escapes some such inflammatoiy affections, their consequent peculiarities of appearance will be wanting in the picture of after- years. Growth and development are often arrested. As some com- pensation to the innocent victim of this inherited disease, it is probable that he enjoys some protected immunity to fresh syphilitic infection, or that the acquired disease would then have a milder character in a constitution which has once paid the penalty. The prognosis of congenital syphilis may be determined mainly by the more or less early supervention of the symptoms of the disease. A withered tawny-faced infant at birth, and affected with snufiling and nasal discharge in the course of a day or two, will probably die. The difficulty of suckling such an infant,—for the act of sucking is imper- fectly performed, the supply of milk from the diseased mother may be poor and scanty, and the substitution of a healthy wet-nurse would be obviously improper—the difliculty of weaning the infant to food suitable to its weak digestion and assimilation, and the oppressed respiration under which the child labours, are all very unfavourable to the reno- vation of nutrition and ultimate recovery. Whereas, when the infant remains free of syphilitic manifestations after birth for a period of two months or longer, and is then affected with symptoms,—when the syphilis is hereditary rather than congenital, it is probable that nutri- tion will have become sufficiently established for the child to outlive the disease, and perhaps also the liability to its return. But the mortality from congenital syphilis is far higher than that from the acquired disease. Bassereau is led to believe that in at least one-third of the congenital cases, death ensues within a few months after birth. Post-mortem examination discloses morbid conditions of certain internal organs, more especially; which, however, do not seem to possess any special practical importance. They comprise chiefly the appearances of broncho-pneumonia—death having often resulted from this pulmonary affection ; indurated deposits in the lungs, of a yellow colour and elastic consistence, which are probably gummy tumours,—the small cells found in these deposits being characteristic, and different from those of tubercle and cancer; a degenerate and