GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 244 intolerable lownesa of spirits, with general restlessness and peevishness, are not unfrcquen tly additional warnings. Blood-pathology.—Chemical analysis demonstrates the presence of an excess of uric acid, with no other change, in the blood. The absolute test of "blood-disease" having been thus supplied in this instance directly, it supersedes the occasion of any other evidence. But I might point to facts such as these :—Gout visits "many textures " and parts of the body " simultaneously " or in "succession." According to Dr. Gai-rod's original observations, the blood in gout always contains uric acid in abnormal quantities and in the form of urate of soda, which salt can be obtained from it in a crystalline state. It arises, apparently, from mal-assimilation,—primarily, of albuminous food in the course of digestion, or secondarily, in the metamorphosis of muscular texture. Or, it may denote simply an excess of animal food over the wants of the system. And the fact first disclosed by Garrod's analyses of the blood, coupled with the known phenomena of arthritic inflammation, inducing the formation of urate of soda concretions, and abundant deposit of urates in the urine, constitute a series of facts, which plainly declare the pathology of this disease. An attack of gout is an effort of nature—of the restorative power—to expel a poison, uric acid, from the blood. Sir Thomas Watson well describes this struggle. " Morbific matter (it may well be called a poison) is gene- rated, or detained, under certain circumstances, within the body, and silently collects in the blood; until, after obscure threats, perhaps, and prelusive mutterings, it explodes in the foot; and then the bodily economy, like the atmosphere after a thunder-storm, is for a while unusually pure and tranquil." Or, gout may engage many joints at once, or flit from one to another; or wander about, disturbing the heart, the lungs, and the brain. Hence palpitation and syncope, dyspnoea, disturbed vision and hearing, with cerebral commotion, bordering on apoplexy and pamlysis. This is known as irregular, lurking, or masked gout. Sometimes, however, having settled in the foot, it suddenly disappears, and migrates to the stomach, heart, or brain; retrocedent gout as it is then called, being unlike the retreat of an ordinary foe, an assault on the very fortress of life. Less perilous migrations are witnessed, when gout betakes itself to the urethra, occasioning a scalding discharge; to the testicle, constituting one form of orchitis; to the eye, giving rise to ophthalmia. All these manifestations of irregular and migratory gout should be borne in mind, otherwise the disease in some form might be over- looked. In whatever shape gout may have appeared, whether regular, disguised, or migratory, its decline is marked and measured by a flow of urine, surcharged with uric acid, thus relieving its accumulation in the blood. Detection of Uric Acid in the Blood.—The ready method proposed and practised by Dr. Gan-od for this purpose, and for which the abstraction of only a very small quantity of blood is requisite, he thus describes as the " uric acid thread experiment; " " Take from one to two fluid drachms of the serum of blood, and put it into a flattened glass dish or capsule; those i preier are about three inches in diameter, and one-third of an inch in depth: to this