THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. 12 of diseases and injuries, forms the most prominent aspect of modern Surgery as an Art. A less definite recognition of this power had pre- vailed from the time of Hippocrates downwards; it was the archoeus of Van Helmont, the anima of Stiihl, the vis medicatrix naturae of Cullen; but the original observations of Hunter on Reparation, in the healing of wounds, and after other injuries, first gave this distinctive character to modern surgical treatment. The Restorative Power is manifested, partly in its resistance to external causes of disease, as the influence of cold; but principally, in the processes of nutrition, and other functions whereby structures, when disorganized, are recovered to or towards a healthy state, and readjusted. In relation to the recovery of parts injured, it may be termed the Reparative Power, which is exhibited in all the various processes of reparation, with regard to wounds, fractures, dislocations, and other injuries. Treat- ment which shall be responsive to the requirements of this twofold power of restoration or reparation, I have long since designated " Con- servative," whether in Surgery or Medicine, as denoting its preservative efficacy, the timeliness and moderation of its remedial assistance. (Med. Times and Gaz., 1864-65.) A few leading illustrations of the power of Reparation, in its various manifestations, as so many laws of Pathology, will inculcate their bearing in the Conservative practice of Surgery. And firstly, the law of Reparation by Adhesion, in the Healing of Wounds, and other injuries. The older surgeons, in their treatment of Wounds, never attempted to solicit "union by the first intention," without any intervening blood or lymph; nor did they venture to invite union by " adhesive inflammation," or simply " primary union," through the medium of plastic lymph, as it is now understood. Believing also,—as John Bell records,—that wherever a bone was laid bare, it must exfoliate; until they saw exfoliation take place, they would not permit such a wound to heal. Thus, they would not lay down the skin in a wound over the shin-bone ; and if there was a lacerated scalp, they cut the torn piece off. And so too in operations and their after-treatment. If they extirpated a tumour, they cut away also all the surrounding skin. If they trephined the skull, they always scalped the patient; and in amputating a limb, they cut by one stroke down to the bone, or after the flap-operation, they dressed the stump and flap as separate wounds. These references to the past will suffice to illustrate the great change which the Practice of Surgery has under- gone by virtue of a distinct recognition of the Reparative power in even one of its almost innumerable modes of manifestation. Sahcutaneous reparation is another law of Pathology, like that of primary adhesion, the recognition of which is due to Hunter; and this law also has conferred an equally conservative character on a scarcely less wide extent of modern Surgical Practice. The wide difference,— both in point of time and safety,—between the healing of an injury under the circumstances of exclusion from, or exposure to, the atmospheric influence, has led to the important practical distinction of wounds, as being open or subcutaneous ; and the same law lies at the bottom of our distinction of simple and compound fractures and dislocations. Hence it has become the primary principle of treatment with regard to all these lesions and injuries generally, to convert them from the con- dition of open into that of subcutaneous lesions ; whether in the form