SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 790 appearances were presented: great projection of the bone inwards, with some elevation by the action of the tibialis anticus muscle, and the bone no longer remained in a line with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. A fall from a height produced this dislocation in the one case ; and in the other, a fall from a horse, the foot being caught between the horse and the kerb-stone. In neither case was the bone reduced ; but the subject of the first of these accidents walked with only a little halting. The Treatment of all these dislocations of the Tarsal bones is the same. Reduction may possibly be effected by pressure on the displaced bone. A compress and foot-splint will then be required to allow the - bone to regain its ligamentous connections. Gompoimd dislocation of any of these tarsal bones may occur, but perhaps only from direct violence. Thus, compound dislocation of the calcaneum has been produced by the fall of a stone on the foot (South) ; and similar instances, with regard to the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, have been met with by Burnett and Aston Key. Reduction was accomplished in all these cases, followed by recovery with only slight lameness. Otherwise, excision or amputation must be resorted to, according to the amount of crushing injury. Dislocation of the Metatarsal bones is also very rare. The metatarsal bone of the great toe has been dislocated upwards, an instance of which from direct violence was seen by Listen, and reduced. The inner three metatarsal bones were dislocated downwards and backwards, in a case recorded by Tufnell, and as resulting from a fall upon the leg by a horse rolling on its rider; Erichsen also found the oiUer three m etatarsal bones dislocated downwards, by the pressure of a " turn- table " on a railway. Dislocation of all the bones backwards has occurred in the experience of Bouchard and Meynier; downwards, as Smyly relates; outwards, in a case which Laugier met with; and inwards, in a case seen by Kirk. The signs of any single dislocation will be the particular deformity occasioned by the direction of displacement. When all the metatarsal bones are dislocated, say backwards, the dorsum of the foot is fore- shortened and presents a transverse ridge, while a corresponding depression appears on the plantar surface. The causes are usually a fall backwards or forwards, the anterior extremity of the foot being wedged under some resisting body. Various crushing accidents also sometimes occasion these dislocations. The treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles. Single dislocation can be reduced only with considerable difficulty, the bone not being accessible to extension, and it has remained unreduced in the hands of Malgaigne and other Surgeons. Multiple dislocation has proved far more easy of reduction. In each of the directions of dis- placement, involving all the metatarsal bones, it was readily accom- plished by extension, combined with pressure suitably applied. Dislocations of the Phalangeal bones of the toes resemble those of the fingers, and do not require a separate notice. In a case related by Sir A. Cooper, all the smaller toes were displaced backwards; a projection existed at their roots, and the extremity of the metatarsal bones bulged under the first phalanx of the corresponding toes. This displacement had been caused by a fall from a considerable height, upon the ends of the toes. Several months had elapsed, and reduction