GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 29G originally used by Mr. Higginbottom, as an application to tbe inflamed surface; which, if it fail by its astringent action to induce resolution, may, by over-stimulation, provoke sloughing. A circumferential line drawn with the nitrate of silver, strongly pencilled, was recommended by the late Dr. A. T. Thomson, for the purpose of setting up a sort of incompatible inflammation, and thereby arresting the progress of the erysipelas. But this boundary rarely, if ever, proves a barrier; such at least is the result of general experience; and I now never have recourse to the nitrate of silver in either of these ways. Phlegmonous erysipelas presents nothing peculiar,. otherwise than as pertaining to the subcutaneous cellular texture, which, with the skin, is invariably although secondarily involved. Free incisions, and at an early period, therefore, fulfil a twofold purpose; as especially advocated by Lawrence. By relieving tension, they may be preserva- tive of the skin, and perhaps of the subcellular texture; both of which are so apt .to slough extensively. Moreover, pain is thus relieved, and the inflammation itself moderated by a discharge of blood with the serum effused. It is, indeed, remarkable to notice how the skin speedily loses its purple hue, and becomes almost blanched, as the engorged vessels bleed freely; the patient acknowledging a proportionate miti- gation of the pain previously endured. Incisions also facilitate the discharge of pus and sloughs, which to some extent are inevitable. The preventive and curative eflicacy of this treatment is now generally admitted ; but the number, lengtb, and depth of the incisions are par- ticulars about which differences of opinion exist. Some surgeons prefer one long incision, a practice, however, fraught with probably more danger from shock and htemorrhage, while it is certainly less effectual for the relief of tension than incisions in different parts. A few cuts—three or four, and' of as many inches in length—will be suf- ficient in most cases. In no case need they be carried deeper than into the subcutaneous slough, which is easily recognized by its ash-grey colour. The treatment subsequently is similar to that of any other suppurating and sloughing wound. Erysipelas of Neiv-horn Infants.—After birth, and for a period of about a month, the new-born infant is still under the influence of the blood derived from the mother, and retains, therefore, all the maternal susceptibilities which are thus entailed. Among these is the liability to erysipelas; in the mother, the source of contagion being the open uterine surface or wound left by detachment of the placenta ; while in the infant, the portal of contagion is the open end of the still incom- pletely obliterated umbilical cord, as originally pointed out by Dr. P. Lorain, and confirmed by Trousseau. Hence, should blood-poisoning arise in the mother and her offspring under these precisely analogous conditions, the local manifestation in the infant, by a diffuse cutaneous inflammation, may be properly designated jj«erperaZ inflammation. Commencing insidiously, a red blush appears, usually at the pubes, which rapidly, spreads to the scrotum or vulva, down the thighs and up the abdomen; thus extending without fading on the part first affected. Aijfcended with but little febrile disturbance in the first in- stance, in the course of two or three days, fever supervenes, and which soon assumes the typhoidal character, with gastro-intestinal symptoms of vomiting and diarrhoea, the little patient speedily sinking into a state of fatal collapse. Meanwhile, the inflammatory affection of ihe