255 SYPHILIS. This species of bubo almost invariably follows a chancre, itself indurated; follows it, observes Ricord, as a shadow follows a body; and the constancy of this sequence is attested by Fournier's report, that 265 cases of chancre were succeeded by bubo in 260, and in only three of these was the absence of induration from the outset certain. This constancy of connection with indurated chancre con- firms the diagnosis as to the nature of the bubo. But, occasionally, induration may arise from some other disease; thus far simulating syphilitic bubo. Scrofulous enlargement of the inguinal glands exhibits a somewhat hard and indolent swelling; the accompanying constitutional condition and history are, however, distinctive of scrofula. Cancerous enlargement of the glands will probably be con- nected with cancer of the penis. (2.) Inflammatory Bubo.—Arising from any cause of lymphatic irrita- tion, and commonly from gonorrhoea, this species of lymphatic glandular enlargement is then named simple adenitis or sympathetic bubo ; but as proceeding from chancroid ulcer, by the absorption of its virus, it may be designated chancroidal bubo, being in fact a chancroid of the lymphatic gland affected; or it is also known as virulent bubo, owing to the contagious character of the pus produced. Beginning usually within a fortnight after the appearance of chancroid on the genitals, one gland only, or sometimes more, presents a swelling in the groin, but the enlarged gland is somewhat soft, never indurated, and decidedly painful, so that the patient walks with a limping lameness ; differing in all these particulars from indurated bubo, in connection with chancre. This state may last for an indefinite period, as an indolent bubo; and then subside by resolution, when resulting from simple adenitis. Or, the gland enlarging, it engages the fascia and skin, whereby the tumour becomes adherent and fixed. Suppuration may then ensue from simple inflammation; and chancroidal bubo always proceeds to this issue. The integument acquires a purplish-red hue, and a stretched, shining appearance, while the cuticle is shed in receding circles, and the cutis becomes thinner. At some softer point, fluctuation can be felt, the thin skin cracks, and matter exudes from the interior of the gland, and from around; or the circumferential abscess bursts first, a few days before that within the gland. The nicer formed assumes all the characters of chancroid; its interior being overlaid with a greyish- yellow membranous secretion, its margin undermined and vertical or everted, while the pus from within the gland is auto-inoculable,—any abrasion of the surrounding skin thus reproducing a chancroid ulcer, or inoculation can be artificially effected. Chancroidal bubo may be thus distinguished from the bubo of simple adenitis, and from the in- durated bubo of syphilis,—in the rare form of its suppui-ation. Asso- ciated causes will confirm the diagnosis. Thus, simple adenitis may arise from the local irritation of gonorrhoea, balanitis, vulvitis, herpes, eczema, or other inflammatory affections of the genitals; or from a crack or abrasion in seminal intercourse; from over-sexual indulgence ; or from muscular exertion, as in walking, dancing, or rowing; and occasionally, from the presence of a chancroid or a chancre, acting as a source of local irritation, not of absorption. (Bumstead.) On the other hand, chancroidal bubo is connected with a causative chancroid; as indurated bubo is with indurated chancre.