329 SHOCK OF INJURY.—COLLAPSE. expansion suspends the reflex functions more particularly. Thus, a stunning blow or fall on the head may cause a more intense shock, apparently; but a crushed limb, with far less cerebral disturbance, may be a more fatal injury. Injury to the lungs, or to the heart especially, is attended with great shock; but, from injuries of the abdominal viscera, according to Professor Longmore's observations, the shock is more persistent. Simple shock, without any apparent structural damage, may be equally deadly. A blow, for example, over the epigastrium; or pain, intense and prolonged; a stroke of lightning or exposure to cold. Certain poisons, probably, have an action resembling Shock; such are powerful sedatives, as tobacco, and powerful purgatives. Mental emotion may operate in like manner. Fear, or bad news, will cause the heart to sink in a moment, accompanied with the pallor of collapse; while a depressing passion, such as grief, weighs it down more per- manently. Predisposing conditions are, perhaps, very influential. Impressi- bility to the causes of Shock is, however, not an indication of its continuance ; but generally inversely proportionate. Thus, shock may be easily occasioned, yet soon pass of, as in yotith ; or not so readily occasioned, and yet persistent, as in old age. Premature age, by intem- perance or sexual excess, is peculiarly unfavourable. Sex is commonly supposed to have a predisposing relation to shock in the female con- stitution, But, under similar circumstances of health and the kind • of injury in either sex, this unfa;vourable difference seems to be overrated, or is perhaps doubtful. Prior disease may unquestionably render the individual more susceptible to shock from injury; but it would appear, as Mr. Furneaux Jordan has observed, that it is in those persons who have suifered from the diseases of organs which ai'e essential to life that such predisposition exists ; as from affections of the brain, heart, lungs, or the kidneys more particularly, and, in a lesser degree, the liver and intestines; whereas, diseases of non-vital organs, or of the extremities, which merely depress the general sum of vitality, confer a lesser degree of susceptibility to shock. Thus may be explained the anomaly that shock is often more fatal in disease, and yet that ampu- tation of the thigh for injury is more fatal than for disease. Consti- tutional susceptibility is well marked in the shock of some individuals ; but it requires all the experience and judgment which the Surgeon can bring to his aid, to foresee this peculiarity. I remember removing a great toe-naU, under the local aneesthetic influence of ice and salt; the patient being a robust, ruddy-complexioned young woman. She sat up during the operation looking at her foot, and experienced no pain then, nor much afterwards. Tet no sooner had the circulation in the toe returned, then she became blanched and cold, and fainted—alarm- ingly several times. Terminations.—(1.) Death, by cardiac syncope.—This may occur in two ways. Death may be sudden, from spasmodic contraction of the heart, not followed by relaxation; this mode of syncope occurring from some sudden and violent impression on the nervous system. ■ Or, more frequently, the fatal termination is eqtially sudden, though perhaps gradual, as the effect of the cessation of the muscular contractility of the heart. I have seen a patient with severe compound fracture just removed to bed, restlessly attempt to raise himself once or twice, and