308 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ill Hospital wards. Ha3morrliage should be arrested, and inflammation subdued; and any collection of blood or pus prevented or at once evacuated. Antiseptics, such as carbolic acid and chlorine solutions, may be used, but their prophylactic agency is an open question. Pysemia is scarcely amenable to any remedial measures. Stimulants and tonics, with as much nutritious and readily assimilated food as can be taken, constitute the only plan of treatment for probably sus- taining the patient through the dread exhaustion which must be undergone, even when recovery ensues. Thus, wine, brandy, or as brandy-and-egg mixture, strong beef tea, ammonia and quinine—in large doses, as four or five grains—may be administered repeatedly, every three or four hours. Opium has a marked beneficial influence in controlling the rapidity of the pulse, and the general irritability as- sociated with prostration. Creosote seems to have some corrective influence on the putrid intestinal discharges. The natural excretion of a blood-poison might apparently be promoted by laxative aperients and sudorifics, especially the warm bath; but the profuse diarrhoea and sweating in the course of pyaemia both tend to increase the ex- haustion; and the remedial efficacy of any eliminative measures, hitherto tried, is also very doubtful. Cleanhness in the dressing of a wound, and free ventilation, must still be observed. But amputation, for the removal of the source of infection, will rarely succeed in ar- resting the course of pyemia. I have tried this resource, and failed, even immediately after the incipient rigors. Secondary ahscesses, when tense, and in any superficial or accessible part, may be opened; and by a valvular incision, as in the treatment of a chronic abscess, so as not to admit air to the readily decomposing purulent collection. CHAPTER X. HOSPITAL GANGRENE. Hospital gangrene is fortunately known to but few surgeons in civil practice now living; and we must refer to those of the past for in- formation. The shortcomings of personal observation are, however, amply compensated by the testimony of many witnesses on record; for a disease so formidable has ever been watched with deep interest when- ever it occurred. From original sources of information, therefore, we are enabled to identify this disease, while its etiology suggests ap- propriate preventive measures. Hospital gangrene has received various other names; not because of any doubt respecting its pathological nature, but as expressive of its various characters, and mode of origin. Thus, Pulpy Gangrene, Phagedsenic Gangrene, Sloughing Phagedsena, Putrid Ulcer, Pourriture des Hopitaux, Contagious Gangrene, Hospital Sore, and Diphtheria of Wounds, are severally synonymous. Signs, and Diagnostic Characters—OYerlooking the many phases of this gangrene, and regarding only its more constant phenomena, its nature i^s perhaps best expressed by denominating it, essentially, gangrenous inflammation; that is to say, inflammation certainly, but inflammation passing at once into gangrene, thereby appearmg only a process of textural disintegration. Sometimes the process of destruc-