GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 182 to both sexes, 86 were in men, 19 only in women. Hereditary predis- position would seem to be traceable in members of the same family; or where scirrhus or encephaloid cancer has alfected some, other members have been the subject of the epithelial disease. External Causes.—Previous injury of the part is more often predis- posing in regard to the production of epithelial cancer than of perhaps any other kind_ of tumour, excepting melanotic cancer of the skin. But the injury is generally some slight and oft-repeated damage, as by frequent blows or friction, thus amounting to prolonged irritation. The habitual smoking of a clay pipe, as affecting the lip, and the irritation arising from soot lodged in the crevices of the scrotum, are familiar examples of the external causes of epithelial cancer. It is often seen to proceed from a crack or fissure, to appear in the form of a small hard knob, lump, or scabbing wart. Some chronic morbid condition of a part may become the seat of the disease; as a cicatrix, especially when exposed to injury. Goimse.—Epithelial cancer is constantly progressive, but its rate of progress varies from time to time, and according to the part affected. The disease may run its course in a year, or continue for three, five, ten years, or longer. Sometimes advancing slowly, in a year it gains only the fraction of an inch on the part around; or spreading rapidly, in a few months it invades to the extent of several inches. This pro- gress is perhaps now and then interrupted by partial cicatrization— when ulceration had supervened. But the average rate of progress is less than that of any other species of cancer-growth. And, with reference to the part affected, epithelial cancer advances more slowly in the scrotum and lower limbs; more rapidly, and with great malignancy, in the mouth, tongue, and penis. The deep-seated form of growth is also more malignant than the superficial or out-growing. The ulcerative stage of epithelial cancer is that in which the disease is commonly seen; and the usual state of ulceration observed is that of progressive destruction of the central and superficial parts of the cancer, with more than co-extensive growth of the marginal and deeper parts, thus constituting the type of the " cancerous ulcer." It is important, therefore, to be able to discern the first aspect of ulceration—both as regards the superficial and the deep forms of epithelial cancer, respectively; and then, the characters of the com- plete ulcer. (1.) Ulceration of superficial or out-growing epithelial cancer, pri- marily appears as either a diffuse excoriation of the whole surface of the cancer, except its borders; or else a shallow ulcer limited at first t3 some fissure where the disease commenced. The discharge from this excoriated or ulcerated surface dries into a thin scab, or a thicker and darker crust; which conceals for a while the ravages of ulceration, still slowly extending beneath,—downwards and outwai-ds. (2.) Ulceration of deep epithelial cancer begins iu one of three^ ways:— In some cases, the superimposed skin or mucous membrane having become adherent and thin, cracks; and this condition may remain stationary for a long while, in the form of a dry dark crevice; but usually ulceration, commencing from this point, extends into the mass of the cancer. In other cases, the substance of the cancer having become inflamed,