SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 838 Fig. 455 * of the bones; which facilitates the progress of the deformity, and impedes restoi'ation of the foot to its natural position. The muscles, however, are the active agents in the production of talipes, one muscle or set of muscles overbalancing another and antagonistic muscle or muscles. In talipes equinus, the gaatrocnemius muscle is contracted. Fatty and fibrous degeneration of the muscular tissue ensues, as the result of old-standing talipes, especially when of paralytic origin. This form of talipes is usually single ; but both feet are sometimes clubbed. Causes.—The disturbed equilibrium of muscular action, in the pro- duction of club-foot, may be spasmodic, when referable to the contracted muscle; or be due to paralysis of the opponent muscle. Thus, in talipes equinus, spasmodic con- traction of the gastrocnemius may give rise to this deformity (Fig. 455); or a paralytic state of the tibialis anticus, or of it and one or more of the other extensors of the foot, be the cause in question. Either muscular affection, spasmodic or paralytic, proceeds from some disease of the nervous centres, commonly of an inflammatory character, which results in effusion or softening; or, when congenital, some defect of development in the nervous centres may be the causative condition. But spasmodic contraction is frequently a manifestation of reflex nervous action through the peripheral nervous system, from various sources of irritation; as teething, or intestinal worms. On the other hand, local irritation is more often the cause of contraction; generally local inflammation, of a rheumatic, scrofulous, or erysipelatous character, or as a Fig. 456. consequence of injury. Thus, the muscles of the calf of the leg may become affected. Talipes equinus may be ac- quired or congenital; the latter very rarely, Tamplin, Lonsdale, and other authorities never having seen such a case. Treatment. — Tenotomy is the only mode of cure, otherwise than when the deformity is slight and pliable. Subcutaneous division of the tendo-Achillis allows the heel to be brought down ; but this must be accomplished through gradual extension, the foot being retained in position by a properly con- structed extending apparatus. The operation is simple. The patient having been laid prone, the Surgeon grasps the foot and extends it forcibly tlms making the tendon tense and prominent; a tenotomy knife (iig. 45b) is intro- * Talipes equinus, with spasmodic contractiou; the toes «/^°^;f,<\ metatarsal uiticulatiouB, and flexed upon themselves, claw-like. (From W. Adams.)