GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 409 tissue, and then being stationary and isola.ted in a sac, it occasions little or no inconvenience. Or, a long canal-like cyst may form, in which the ball, although imprisoned, moves freely up and down. Apart from this general vital history, a gunshot wound extending into any internal organ, exhibits a series of phenomena peculiar to the particular organ implicated; and thence the completion of the vital history of this form of injury, as occurring in different parts of the body, belongs to Special Pathology. Prognosis.—The prognosis of Gunshot Wound is partly analogous to that of any other contused or lacerated wound. The kind of structural disorganization is significant, as leading inevitably to slough- ing and suppuration. The presence of Sbnj foreign body in the wound has a similar import. But the extent and the depth of a gunshot wound will much affect the issue. The prognosis is specially un- favourable according to the number and functional importance of the parts injured, as complications of the wound. Injury to large blood- vessels, nerves, or an internal organ, are thus, severally, unfavourable conditions; and proportionately to the functional disturbances thence arising. Compound Fracture and Compound Dislocation are obviously most serious complications of gunshot injury. The subsequent course of the wound in its undergoing reparation by suppurative granulation, is an eventually faoourable ground of prognosis. Treatment.—Immediately after a gunshot wound, certain require- ments demand instant attention, as to hsemorrhage, position, and shock. (1.) Arterial hcemorrhage, whether in the form of a jetting stream or a rapid dripping of blood, must be arrested forthwith. Abundant venous hasmorrhage is scarcely less perilous. If a limb be the seat of injury, a tourniquet should be apphed, so as to command the main vessels. The same rule holds good when the limb is struck off, as by a cannon-ball; a tourniquet should be applied above the stump. A convenient form of ^leZcZ-tour- niquet is here represented. (Fig. 99.) In the absence of this instrument, a substitute may be readily made, by means of a stone about the size of an egg, rolled in the middle of a pocket-handkerchief and placed over the main artery; the ends of the handkerchief being drawn around the limb and secured in a knot, and then twisted up tightly with a piece of stick or the hilt of a sword passed under it. A compress and an elevated position of the limb are more suitable when the haemorrhage is purely venous. The part may be covered with cold wet lint, as a soothing application. If the head or neck be wounded, hasmorrhage, whether arterial or venous, must be arrested by pressure; and cold applied. (2.) Attention to position is important. A limb should be laid in an easy position; and fixed during the removal of the wounded person to Hospital, in order to prevent any disturbance of the injured part from shaking or from spasmodic action of the muscles. This precaution will be the more necessary when compound fracture or dislocation com- FiQ. 99.