276 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY, lowering general treatment, by saline purgatives and reduced diet. Loochos should not be applied except in this early stage; since any formation of matter near the surface might inoculate the bites, which would thus be converted into chancroids. Each bite had better be covered with collodion and a bit of adiiosive plaster, as a protective from any adjoining source of contagion, if one such point happens to become a chancroid. Of counter-irritants; iodine paint may be used, or a strong solution of nitrate of silver, 5iii. to ^i. of water, with the addition of TT\^xx, of strong nitric acid, as recommended by Sir H. Thompson; others prefer blistering, or even the actual cautery, as employed in French hospitals, by means of a pointed iron at a white heat, applied to numerous points over the bubo. Compression can be effected by a pad of compressed sponge and spica-bandage, afterwards moistened with warm water to cause the sponge to swell under the bandage. Ricord's pad for buboes offers another resource. But I have rarely found any repressive measure succeed among the large number of out-patients at the Royal Free Hospital. Sujjpurating bubo should speedily be advanced by poulticing, and opened without delay ; before the formation of sinuses, which would undermine the thin, bluish integument, leaving it indisposed to cicatrize. The abscess is readily slit open with a curved, sharp-pointed bistoury or scalpel; observing to make a free incision, and in the vertical rather than in the horizontal direction, as the former cut allows a gaping outlet for the escape of matter when the thigh is raised. Any sinuses should then be followed up with a director, and laid open. If the glands at the bottom of the cavity appear isolated or pedunculated, they had better now be removed, instead of being extruded by a tedious ulceration. This may be done with the knife or scissors, or by touching the little mass freely with a stick of potass fusa. The latter is also preferred by some surgeons for opening the abscess, when it appears likely to become sloughy, as thus a cleaner and more thoroughly exposed cavity will be formed. Haemorrhage is seldom much, and is easily arrested. The ulcer of the opened abscess always assumes a chancroidal character, and secretes virulent matter. A poultice is applied, or strips of wet lint, to the bottom of the cavity, and the sinuses ; subsequently this dressing should be exchanged for the lotions applicable to chancroid, or in its varied conditions of in- flammation or phagedsena. During the cicatrization of a healthy sore, this process of healing will often be promoted by the support of a compress and spica-bandage, and in all cases by keeping the patient at rest. No particular constitutional treatment is required, and mercury would certainly be prejudicial. In the rare event of indurated bubo having suppurated, the local treatment is the same; but the constitutional influence of mercury or other general treatment may be employed with advantage. Constitutional Syphilis.—Preventive treatment still claims our first consideration. After the development of chancre, and before consti- tutional syphilis is manifested by any secondary symptom, except, perhaps, induration of the chancre, there is yet an intervening period of blood-incubation—extending over about a month or six weeks, more or less, during which the development of constitutional syphilis may be intercepted. Otherwise, the blood will assuredly declare its noxious influence on nutrition, in due time; by some secondary disease of the