40 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. movements being entirely independent of those of the heart and the respiration, and ceasing when the vessel is paralyzed by division of its nerves. Development contrasts with growth, in representing the quality, as well as quantity, of structure produced. But the two are concurrent and co-equal manifestations of the formative power, in heakhy Nutrition. It would appear that emotional influence is not limited to appor- tioning the supply of blood, and thence the quantity of growth or the size attained by a part subject to such influence; tbe quality or kind of growth produced is also, in a measure, regulated thereby. A fatty tumour was removed by Mr. Lawrence, several years ago, from a woman's shoulder; and when the wound had healed soundly, she imagined the tumour to have been a cancer, and that it would return. Mr. Paget saw her some months afterwards, and she had a large and firm painful tumour in her breast, just like a portion of indurated mammary gland. She was assured by Mr. Paget that her supposed cancer would disappear ; and it did become very much smaller, without any help from medicine. As this tumour had arisen under the influence of fear, so it very nearly subsided under that of confidence. The patient was lost sight of before the tumour had been completely absorbed. In this summary of the process of Nutrition, we obsei've a co- operative relation subsisting between its essential conditions:—textural changes; and the blood, in quality and quantity, as representing the nutritive material; accessory to which are the blood-vessels which convey the blood to the part nourished; and the nerves in connection therewith, which further regulate the supply. The accessory character of the two latter conditions is also evinced by the fact of Nutrition taking place in comparatively avascular textures, and those which are destitute of nerves ; as cartilage. Thus, then, is Nutx'ition maintained ; and we also observe in these conditions adequate provision for the extra demands of Growth and Development, whereby blood is duly determined to textures or parts undergoing this twofold physiological change. Bidparation of texture, after destruction by injury or disease, is subject to the same conditions. The processes of immediate union, primary adhesion, suppurative granulation, with perhaps secondary adhesion, and scabbing, as described in subsequent chapters, may therefore be properly associated with this general consideration of the physiology of Nutrition. Inflammation is another modification of Nutrition, the same elements co-operating. This process can be observed when it takes place in textures on the surface of the body, as the skin; and it is best illus- trated when occasioned simply by a burn or other injury, rather than when induced by the operation of a blood-poison, as in erysipelas, boil, or carbuncle, wifiich are specific and complicated illustrations of inflam- mation. (1.) Textural Changes.—The twofold nature of the textural changes in Inflammation, is the same as in healthy Nutrition; but the textural productiveness, and the destruction of texture, are both increased; and the process proceeds more rapidly. Hence, the products are not only increased in quantity, they are also imperfect structural conditions of