SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 670 Pig. 180.* nt'^TonN °^,^°"*"sion; giving rise to primary traumatic thrombi, (i^ig 180). Any roughness or projections within the veins, as from phlebitis, will mvite the disposition of fibrine; and inflammation aftect- mg the cellular texture around the veins, naay induce thrombosis and plugging within them, as at the base of an extending ulcer. Symptoms.—The symptoms of venous obstruction, coincident with intra-clot pro- duction, or thrombosis, are just those of adhesive phlebitis : induration, in the form of knotted cords, when the veins are felt under the finger, with some tenderness, purplish redness, and heat in the course of the vessels. These symptoms are more per- ceptible if the veins be superficial; as from thrombus of the median, the cephalic, and basilic veins, sometimes, after venesection. Obstruction in the deep veins will be indi- cated by oedema, afi^ecting perhaps the whole limb, which feels hot and dry, is usually flexed, and extension occasions great pain. These symptoms are generally referable to some accomjDanying injury ; a contusion, wound, or fracture. Similar symptoms may arise from inflammatory condensation of the cellular tissue around a vein, forming a tubular thickening, enclosing the vessel, but which is itself free of coagulum; and thus the diacjnosis between peri-venous condensation, and intra-venous clot or thrombus, may be difficult or impossible. Transformations of Thrombus.—An intra-venous clot is liable to either of two transformations. It may possibly become organized, by the formation of connective tissue, apparently tlirough elongation and attenuation of the white blood-cells into filaments (Fig. 181), with the development of capillary blood-vessels passing from the walls of the vein, as in the repair of a wounded vein. But, generally, the clot tends to become softened, the fibrine undergoing a disintegrative trans- formation into a thick yellow fluid, puriform, or resembling pus in appearance, yet consisting of fluid fibrinous detritus or molecular matter, without pus-corpuscles or a vestige of any cellular element. The softened thrombus thus having assumed the consistence of puru- lent matter, now presents the symptoms of " suppurative phlebitis." This change begins usually in the coagulum first deposited, the oldest * Middlesex Hosp. Mus., S. vi. 111a. Thrombosis, with ulceration, of vena cava and iliac veins, from the entrance of two needles into the cava. The patient, an hysterical woman, aged twenty-one, had swallowed the needles. This was followed by remarkable alternations of temperature,—rising to 105-6° and falling to 90 6', thus showing a range of 9°. CEdema of the lower extremities appeared, with conspicuous enlargement of the superficial veins; this occurred in the left limb on the fifteenth day, and in the right limb on the forty-fifth day. This state was persistent. Signs and symptoms closely resembling those of pericarditis wi-re developed on the day when the left limb thus became alfected. Aching pains m various regions of the spine, accompanied by faintness or syncope, were sometimes attended with rigors or with a high degree of pyrexia. Abdominal pam and diarrhoea, delirium, or a state of unconsciousness supervened, and death took place on the fifty-ninth day. Thompson.) (See also Trans. Clin. Soc, vol. viii.) (Dr. Ileury