BURNS AND SCALDS. 423 tlie latter series, enlarged glands were foand, in 1 of which cases the fflands of the whole intestinal tract were enlarged. The diwderial ^dcer is sharp-edged, and tolerably circular, as if a portion of the mucous membrane had been cut out; it is very indo- lent, and usually situated just below the pylorus. Often there are two or three close together. G-cnerally, the burn is on some part of the chest or abdomen. The earliest known period of duodenal ulceration is the fourth day; on the fifth day, it was noticed in two cases, and in one on the sixth. It usually occurs about the tenth day. This ulceration is unaccompanied by general inflammatory symptoms, or by any special symptoms. Persistent vomiting and bloody diarrhoea are the most reliable. Perforation of the bowel may ensue, and death take place suddenly from haemorrhage, or from acute peritonitis. In one case, however, after death from other causes, at the end of eight weeks, a recent cicatrix was found in the duodenum. (3.) Siqjpuration and Exhmistion, or Inflammation still prevailing, represent the third period ; extending from the end of the second week to the termination of the case. The proportion of deaths at this period was 9 in the 50 cases—less than and 27 in the 75 cases—more than f. Brain lesions are accidental, being limited to infantile convulsions and pytemia. The lungs or pleurae are far more frequently congested or inflamed, and this condition is the cause of death. Thus, in 6 out of 9 cases examined in Mr. Erichsen'^s table, lesions of the lungs and pleurae were noted. In 4 of these, the appearances were distinctly in- flammatory ; in the other 2 there was congestion with eif usion into the pleurae. Oat of 27 of Mr. Holmes's fatal cases—during this period —the lungs were aifected in 10, in 8 of which inflammation was the principal cause of death. Here, generally, the burn is situated on the chesfc. The symptoms—^physical examination being precluded—are sufficiently marked ; pain and oppression of breathing, hacking cough, and bloody expectoration. The gastro-intestinal mucous membrane is less frequently congested or inflamed, but ulcera,tion of the duodenum is still not uncommon. Out of the 27 fatal cases referred to, in 6, open ulcers were found in the duodenum; in 1 a similar ulcer had cicatrized, and in 1 the whole mucous membrane of the small intes- tines was inflamed but not ulcerated. In the other 9 cases referred to, no ulceration of the intestines was discovered. In 1 case only of Mr. Holmes's series, the jejunum and ileum were ulcerated, the duo- denum being intact. Beparation.—Burns and scalds heal by the same process of repara- tion as similar lesions otherwise caused. But some features in their career are peculiar. Erythema, produced by a burn or scald, tends to subside, like, any other simple cutaneous inflammation; resolution taking place with desquamation of the cuticle. Vesication also is resolved and terminates in like manner. Deeper burns involving, suc- cessively, the skin, subcellular tissue, and other adjacent textures, are followed by sloughing, with the formation of eschars, abundant sup- puration, and then the healing process of granulation and cicatrization. But the granulations are exuberant, and the cicatrix is contractile. At first thin, of a purplish colour, and shining, stretched appearance, it immediately begins to contract, and contraction continuing for some months, with great and increasing force, the cicatrix gradually assumes a seamed and puckered appearance ; drawing together the surrounding