SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. C26 reck portion of tlie scapula is replaced and displaced, by pressing the arm upwards, and then allowing it again to drop. (6.) The glenoid cavity may be the seat of a starred or comminuted fracture, of which there is an excellent specimen in the Museum at Netley (Fig. 217); or, with fracture of the glenoid cavity, the acromion and coracoid processes may also be broken. This rare injury occurred in a case of which the specimen is preserved in the Museum of University College, 249. (Fig. 218.) The diagnostic sights of such fracture would be obscure. Comminuted fracture of the body of the scapula is even a more rare form of injury than the preceding; but 1 have found several specimens in the Museums of St. George's Hospital and University College. Cause.—Direct violence is the only cause of fracture, in any part of the scapula. The body is especially protected by a cushion of muscle, on the back and front of this portion of the bone; and the coracoid process and neck of the bone are cushioned by the deltoid muscle. Thus protected, the violence must be very considerable to produce fracture, especially when comminuted; not unfrequently, the subjacent ribs are broken simultaneously, and sevei'e contusion or laceration of the soft parts, with such additional in- jury, give rise to serious consequences. More than one fracture of the scapula may have occurred; or fracture, concurrently, of the upper end of the humerus. The occasions of dii'ect violence are various. A heavy fall on the shoulder may fracture the acromion, coracoid process, or neck of the scapula; a severe blow, as by the pole of a carriage, has fractured the coracoid process; and gunshot injury of the back may fracture the body of the scapula. Treatment.—The direction of the displace- ment indicates the proper position of the limb, and the application of retentive bandaging. Displacement forwards of the inferior angle, or a portion of the hody of the bone, will be corrected by drawing the arm inwards, and thence the scapula forward; in order thus to meet the fractured portion, which cannot easily be kept back, although a compress may be placed in front of it, as Boyer recommended. The arm must then be secured in that position, by a few turns of a roller round the chest, and the forearm rested in a sling. Displacement downwards and forwards of the acromion, or down- wards and inwards of the coracoid process, or with the neck of the scapula, may severally be rectified by elevation of the arm with an inclination inwards, in order to replace the fractured portion upwards and backwards, or upwards and outwards. In fracture of either of these portions of the bone, the downward tendency—with flattening and dropping of the shoulder—is more marked than any tendency forward, or inward. Having, therefore, secured the arm slightly in front of the chest, by a few turns of a roller, the forearm must be well supported in a sling, especially at the elbow. In fracture of the