SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 494 cysts, and abscess, situated on or communicating with the artery, may severally simulate aneurism. They are all pulsating swellings ; but differing in the less expansive character of the pulsation, and the incompressibility, possibly, of the supposed aneurism. The history of the case will aid the diagnosis, as in that of abscess. The fluid, as vi^ell as the pulsating, character of any superimposed cyst or abscess, or when communicating with the artery, and virtually forming au aneurism, are the two conditions which require the utmost caution in diagnosis. Mr. Listen once inadvertently punctured a cervical abscess, which, having opened into the carotid artery, had thus become converted into aneurism. Pulsative tumours present even more per- plexing difficulty. Pulsative enlargement of the thyroid body differs from a supposed aneurism, in its situation, and more particularly in the tumour moving up with the trachea in the act of deglutition. Any tumour, not communicating with the carotid artery, can be raised from the vessel, when the aneurismal symptoms will be found to cease; excepting the thrill of a pulsative tumour. Aneurismal varix of the internal jugular vein is an occasional question of diagnosis. In addition to the ordinary signs of varix, the notable diminution of the tumour during a deep inspiration will perhaps distinguish this condition. Causes.—Carotid aneurism—unlike the aneurisms hitherto noticed, and in particular innominate aneurism—is rarely traumatic. Hence, probably, the fact that it occurs more frequently in the female than any other external aneurism. In 25 cases, 12 were in women. But the comparatively early age at which it may occur is remarkable; in one instance a girl of ten years, in another of eighteen. The right carotid is more commonly affected than the left, and the upper portion of the vessel than the lower; the bifurcation being the chosen seat of carotid aneurism. Course and Terminations; and Prognosis.—An unfavourable career may generally be predicated, owing to the proximity of carotid aneurism to the central force of circulation—the heart—and also its important anatomical relations in the neck. Rupture, with recurring haemorrhage, is one mode of termination; the tumour bursting externally, or into the pharynx or oesophagus. Asphyxia, by pressure on the larynx and recurrent nerve, is another termination. Starvation, by compression of the oesophagus, is yet a third issue, but not so imminent as either of the others. The particular part of the artery affected will materially modify the issue, and the duration of the case. It may be said generally, that the more distant the aneurism from the root of the neck, the less perilous are its pressure-effects, and the less imminent is any mode of fatal termination. Aneurism at the bifurcation of the carotid, below the angle of the jaw, may thus continue for years. At last, however, further want of space renders the contiguity of important parts increasingly perilous. narrow, oval mouth, about one third of an inch in length, and having almost a vertical direction. A piece of whale-bone (represented in the figure) projects from either end of the artery; and the common carotid is similarly indicated. Tlie walls of the sac were a quarter of an inch in thickness, formed of dense tissue, and not apparently by the coats of the vessel. Firm laminated coagnlum has nearly obliterated the cavity. By pressure of the sac, the larynx is displaced, and the mucous membrane was very CRdematous. The common and internal carotid arteries, as well as the continued trnnk of the aneurismal external carotid, even to the borders of the mouth of the sac, are perfectly healthy. (Hunterian.)