SPECIAL TATHOLOGY AND SUHGERY. G20 and tlie opposed action of the stemo-mastoid and great pectoral muscles. The displaced portion is drawn downwards, forwards, and inwards ; under, perhaps, the inner portion, thus being overlapped to an extent varying from a quarter of an inch to an inch. This dis- placement is partly due to the weight of the arm, having lost its support from the sternum; but principally it results from the action of the deltoid and great pectoral muscles, the latter muscle drawing this portion of the bone forwards and inwards. Double fracture has been met with occasionally, both clavicles being broken, perhaps more often in children. Incoviplete fracture of the clavicle may be noticed, only as an almost unique rarity, in a specimen (1, 75) of the Museum of St. George's Hospital. But, in infancy and childhood, I am inclined to believe that this lesion is not uncommon; the clavicle yielding near the middle, in a transverse direction, and with no displacement more than a slight bulging forwards. Compound fracture has been known to occur, by direct violence, or as the result of a very oblique fracture protruding through the skin. Complicated fracture consists in some additional injury. The structures adjacent to the clavicle are rarely injured with, or by, the fracture. But the axillary plexus of nerves and the subclavian vein have, sevei'ally, been wounded. Both these additional injuries were present, I believe, in the fatal case of the late Sir Robert Peel, whose left clavicle was fractured, and comminuted, by a fall from his horse. The injured vein led to the formation of a " diffused false venous aneurism," as lai'ge as the hand might cover, below the fractured clavicle, and which pulsated to the touch synchi'onously with the action of the heart, or rather with the contractions of the auricle. The Signs of fractured clavicle are characteristic. When, as usual, on the sternal side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, a depression, corresponding to the displacement, is readily detected on passing the finger along the bone, crepitation also, and mobility of the outer portion, on raising and rotating the shoulder, the elbow being kept to the side. Pain is caused by this manipulation; and the patient is unable to raise his hand to his head, the support of the clavicle, necessary for this semicircular motion of the ai^m, having given way. The patient, with his other hand, holds the arm up to his chest, to relieve the powerless weight, and inclines his head to the injured side, to relax the muscles passing from the clavicle to the head. This peculiar attitude of the patient is accompanied with a marked fallmg of the shoulder inwards towards the sternum, approximating the interval between these points ; thereby declaring the nature of the injury almost at a glance. Examination, as above directed, will be conclusive. Some contusion also may be noticed on the shoulder, or over the seat of fracture, according to the part struck, in thus breaking the bone. On the scapular or outer side of the coraco-clavicular ligament, fracture is less obvious, but still easily discovered. Slight displace- ment of the fragment downwards, and drooping of the shoulder, may be observable; but this irregularity disappears on pressing the arm upwards; and crepitus, with some mobility of the fragment, are felt on raising and depressing the humerus, the hand being placed over