GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 282 the View of preventing abortion, or the transmission of the disease to the foetus inutero. Now this timely intervention can be accomplished only by a course of mercury. And it is better to administer mercury externally, by inunction, or by fumigation, rather than internally, by the mouth; for in the latter way, the treatment is apt to be defeated by the occurrence of diarrhoea, which might induce abortion. Mis- carriage, perhaps on a second or third occasion, having been thus prevented, the foetus is tolerated in utero, to perhaps the full period; and may then be born healthy, and continue free from syphilis. But m the event of there being congenital disease, namely at birth, or shortly afterwards, the same treatment should at once be resorted to, for its curative efficacy. The infant should be treated as a separate being, and protected also from the possibly contaminating influence of the mother, if she suckle her child—as morally she is bound to do, rather than that the unwarrantable risk should be incurred of infecting a healthy wet-nurse by the child. If the mother be weak, and thus physically unable to suckle, the infant should be weaned. Mercurial inunction may be conveniently applied to the child by Sir Benjamin Brodie's method; the mercurial ointment, made in the proportion of a drachm to an ounce of lard, is spread over a flannel roller, which is bound round the waist once a day. The child kicks about, and the cuticle being thin, the mercury is absorbed. It does not either gripe or purge, nor does it make the gums sore, but it cures the disease, and without fail. Very few children are said to recover, to whom mercury is given internally. But if this mode of administration be adopted, the hydrargyrum cum creta is perhaps the most efficient pre- paration, in congenital syphilis. At the same time, when the mother continues to suckle her child, she also should be kept under mercurial treatment, lest any further contamination be conveyed to the child, through the mother's milk. I do not know that such treatment of the mother has any indirect curative influence on the child, for its efficacy seems to be spent in the constitution of its first recipient, the mother. From careful analysis of the milk, in such cases, by MM. Lutz and Personne, it appears that not the slightest trace of mercury can be found in this, the source of the child's nourishment. Mercurial treatment must be continued until, and for some time after, all the symptoms of congenital syphilis have disappeared. Then iodide of potassium may be substituted, given in milk to the child; or, as this medicinal agent is probably eliminated in the mammary secretion, it may be administered through the mother. The weakly child should be weaned early, and reared artificially with more nourishing food; cow's milk, and perhaps veal or chicken broth. The local treatment of the syphilitic eruptions, cracks and fissures, comprises the application of slightly stimulating ointments and lotions ; with scrupulous cleanliness, by sponging the fundament more especially, and the use of clean linen. Syphilization yet remains to be noticed. It is said to be the curative treatment of constitutional syphilis by repeated inoculation with the syphilitic virus, and for the prevention of its recurrence. Syphilization is also practised for the cure of primary ulcers, under the influence of which it is said they soon lose their hardness and begin to cicatrize. Buboes are thus affected beneficially. Vegetations remain uninfluenced.