INFLAMMATION. 69 (1.) The Fever of inflammation was formerly supposed to arise from the increased proportion of fibrin in the blood, or hyperinosis, as the cause of febrile excitement of the circulation, and the other functions involved. Hunter advocated this interpretation of inflammatory fever, and he gave cases which, as tested by venesection, seemed to support it. But the recent results of chemical analysis indicate that inflam- matory fever may possibly be absent with hyperinosis, or present without it; and they certainly prove beyond doubt that the degree of inflammatory fever cannot be measured by the amount of hyperinosis. MM. Becquerel and Rodier estimate the increase of fibrin in various diseases to range from the healthy average of three to ten parts in one thousand of blood; and that a slight increase from three to five takes place in chlorosis, in certain cases of scurvy, more especially when it assumes the chronic form, during pregnancy also, and in erysipelas of the face; yet surely the two first mentioned diseases are not inflammatory, nor are the ordinary constitutional symptoms of pregnancy those of inflammatory fever. On the other hand, a diminished proportion of fibrin below the average of three in one thousand was noted in scarlet fever, small-pox, and measles ; but the ordinary type of these fevers is inflammatory in a high, degree. Lastly, when present, the degree of this fever does not correspond with the amount of hyperinosis. A great increase of fibrin up to ten in one thousand was noticed in acute articular rheumatism, in pleurisy, and pneumonia; and a proportion varying from five to ten was also found in peritonitis, bronchitis, and severe erysipelas of the face—diseases which are accompanied with at least as high a degree of inflammatory fever as pleurisy or pneumonia. (2.) The foregoing facts and considerations compel us to attribute the accompanying inflammatory fever to some other source than the blood; and the only other bond of sympathetic connection between the heart and inflamed part is the nervous system. Many years since, Abernethy suggested this channel of communica- tion, and subsequently, Travers pointed out the agency of the nervous system, and drew the distinction between nervous excitement alone and inflammatory fever. Although he attributes this fever to excite- ment of the circulation from hyperinosis, yet he observed that the first morbid impression was upon the nervous system, and transmitted by the nerves of the part injured or inflamed to the nervous centre, and thence to the organs of circulation. In proof thereof, Travers urges the priority of nervous excitement in the development of inflammatory fever. The premonitory symptoms, viz., headache, lassitude, dis- quietude, nausea, chilliness, and rigor, are indications of the more or less troubled condition of the nervous centres; to these the alterations in the measure and force of the circulation, the permanent and sensible changes upon the internal and external surfaces, and their secretions, succeed—viz., quick pulse, hot skin, dryness of the mouth and fauces, furred tongue, vitiated and scanty secretions. (3.) But the chemically changeful state of the textures, and thence of the blood in circulation, with the evolution of heat, are the essential constituents of inflammatory fever; and its symptoms are those of this more active change and increased temperature. There is, observes Mr. Simon, an accelerated devitalization and destructive transformation of organic matenal, which infects the blood through the venous and lymphatic outflow; the general mass of blood, thence