113 INFLAMMATION. administered, will vary greatly according' to tlie age, constitutional strength, pi'evious state of health and habits, of the individual. But the consideration of these particulars must be left to the experience and judgment of the practitioner in each case. Tonics.—Cinchona bai'k, the mineral acids, sulphuric, nitric, nitro- muriatic, and other tonics, are useful under, perhaps, similar circum- stances to those requiring the aid of stimulants, in the treatment of inflammation. Tet these two classes of remedial agents have different, perhaps opposite, effects, in some respects, although it is difficult to distinguish their operation in every particular. A stimulant certainly produces its effects suddenly and transiently; a tonic, its effects more gradually and more permanently. Then again, the chief primary effect of the one is to quicken the circulation, as manifested by increased rapidity of pulse; while, the chief primary effect of the other is to strengthen the circulation, and hence an increased force of pulse. Thus far these two kinds of agents contrast. Both, however, concur in restoring the balance of the circulation from the depression connected with or consequent on the subsidence of inflammatory fever; and subsequently, in contending against the ex- haustion of continued effusion or profuse suppuration; or again, in overcoming the depression arising from absorption of poisonous matters, in the course of suppuration, pyasmia, ulceration, or sloughing. The mineral acids seem to exercise a special influence on the secretion of the skin, and, indeed, tlie secretions generally. Having administered the sesquicarbonate of ammonia, as a stimulant, with, the tincture of bark or the disulphate of quinine, as a tonic, when first weakness supervenes; the ammonia should afterwards be exchanged for, say, the diluted nitro-muriatic acid; this tonic combination of bark and acid being the most effectual means of restraining the sweats of hectic fever, and of cleaning the furred tongue in gangrenous typhoid fever. The general improvement is often, very remarkable, and permanent. God-liver oil and nutritious diet are naturally associated; the one seeming to renovate the power of assimilation, the other supplying tlie materials for restoration. Both, become appropriate, and nutritious diet absolutely necessary, on the subsidence of inflammatory fever, and during hectic, pyaemia, and gangrenous typhoid fever; whether for the reproduction of new blood and the general renovation of textural nutrition, or for the reparation of any local deterioration of texture, or loss of substance, consequent on inflammation. Cod-liver oil may be regarded, partly, as a kind of food, supplying a limpid fat which passes easily into the circulation. In the first 1 instance, it is not unfrequently rejected by the stomach or bowels. I Beginning, therefore, with a moderate dose, not exceeding a teaspoon- ■ of pale, transparent, inodorous, and almost tasteless oil, taken . twice or three times a day, this quantity may be gradually increased ■ to a table-spoonful. It is best taken in a little milk, as an emulsion, !0r floating on orange wine, ginger wine, or other light cordial. The addition of a little diluted nitric acid is highly recommended by +u ^' or if the tendency to nausea be extreme, ithe thirtieth or fortieth of a grain of strychnine in solution, with ach dose of oil, will be found an excellent corrective. A further