109 INFLAMMATION. effects, tlioughi in a less marked degree, and witliout fclie distress of vomiting, may be produced by smaller doses. Fortunately, however, vomiting soon ceases, while the beneficial influence continues with the full administration of the medicine; or this symptom maybe conti'olled by administering it in the form of a saline draught with four or five minims of diluted hydrocyanic acid. The action of this remedy is most salutary when even nausea is not induced. Antimony will be most advantageously prescribed after general blood-letting to maintain its effects, and in proportion as the vascular tension, indicated by hardness of the pulse, continues. But either resource may be considered a substitute for the other; and experience o-ives the preference to antimony, generally. It is found to be most effectual in pneumonia, orchitis, and inflammation of other unyielding textures ; less so with regard to serous membranes; and it is contra- indicated in enteritis. Opium is of signal service in the treatment of inflammation. It seems to act partly like antimony and blood-letting by overcoming vas- cular tension, but opium has the advantage of also subduing nervous excitement. Its administration is, therefore, most appropriate when this is the predominant element in inflammatory fever; or when, excite- ment of the circulation declining, that of the nervous system with general weakness becomes prominent. It is thus that opium proves so beneficial after severe injuries or surgical operations ; where shock is followed by excessive reaction, or prostration with excitement prevails over or outlasts inflammatory fever. In some cases, opium acts specially on the part injured or operated on, by subduing muscular movements, voluntary or involuntary, as by paralyzing the peristaltic movements of the intestine after the operation for strangulated hernia. It seems also to depress the tex- tural activity of the inflamed part, and to influence, in some way, favourably, inflammation having an ulcerative or gangrenous tendency. The chief disadvantages attending the use of opium are—the sick- ness it is apt to occasion at first, and constipation by its more continued use. The latter can be controlled or prevented by our next remedial measure, prescribed in combination with the opium. Mercury counteracts the constipating tendency of opium, and this, in its turn, overrules the aperient action of mercury; either medicine checking the intestinal influence of the other. The combination generally employed is calomel and opium; in the proportion of from one grain to five of the former, with a quarter of a gi'ain to one grain of the latter, given as a pill every four hours or so. But does the continued administration of this familiar formula pro- duce any remedial effect, through the systemic influence of mercury ? This is debateable ground. Unquestionably, mercury can be intro- duced into the system—meaning thereby the blood in circulation—and it then produces peculiar symptoms ; the gums becoming red, spongy, and tender, the breath having a peculiar foetor, and a metallic taste being experienced like that of copper in the mouth. The salivary glands under the tongue and at the angle of the jaw become somewhat swollen and painful, and the secretion of saliva is increased. This associated group of symptoms, constituting " salivation " or ptyalism, announces that the system is under the influence of mercury. Mer- curial infection, or " mercurialism," aa it is called, is in fact attested