SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 364 precise nature of the reparative process underneatli is concealed from our view. So far—observes Sir James Paget—as one can discern with the naked eye, the wounded surface forms only a thin layer of cuticle on itself; no granulations, no new fibro-cellular tissue, appear to bo formed; the raw surface merely skins over, and it seems to do so uniformly, not by the progressive formation of cuticle from the cir- cumference towards the centre, as is usual in open wounds. Healing by the " modelling process"—originally described by Macartney—is somewhat similar. It takes place under a scab or protective film. But that "natural growth" of textures proper to the part, by which it was said to be re-made or re-modelled, and which was thought to be the special and characteristic feature of the model- linff process, is probahly only the growth of granulations, without suppuration, because not exposed to the air. This mode of healing, like the last, is often witnessed in the wounds of animals. I have seen it occur in a gaping wound on the haunch of a horse. The Prognosis of incised wound—as an adhering wound—is most favourable. But the breach of continuity may be maintained by various circumstances which prevent or impede coaptation of the parts. The weight and onohility of loose and pendulous parts tend to prevent union, or to disunite them in the process of healing by primary ad- hesion ; disturbing conditions which are exemplified after removal of the breast. Muscular action, causing displacement, will have the same effect; and tension of the integuments is a similarly adverse condition, whether owing to any tightness of the jaart, or as resulting from inflammatory effusion. An amputation stump, after recent opera- tion, is often thus circumstanced ; at least, by the speedy supervention of swelling, and tension would be aggravated by scanty flaps. Any foreign body, e.g., grit, or clot of blood, intervening between the surfaces, otherwise in opposition, will prevent complete union, and induce suppuration with an open wound. But the surfaces of an in- cised wound are usually clean. Treatment.—To be effectual, in regard to this or any other lesion, surgical appliances must meet the requirements of the natural process of reparation, throughout its course ; of which the treatment will then be a continued reflection. The Indications are three:—(1) Arrest of hosmorrhage; (2) Re- moval of foreign bodies ; (3) Coaptation of the opposed surfaces. Tlmmorrhage.—Small vessels soon spontaneously cease to bleed; their cut extremities retracting and contracting. Larger-sized arteries bleed pe?* saltum, in jetting streams of florid red blood. Venous hcemor- rhage is distinguished by the even flow of purple or black blood. The treatment of haemorrhage will be described in connection with Wounds of Arteries and Veins. But the arrest of hfemori-hage, spontaneously, may be aided by exposure of the wound to cool air, or a stream of cold water squeezed from a sponge. Gentle pressure with the sponge on the cut surfaces will readily discover whether there be still any oozing from the bleeding points. Obviously, anj foreign lady, if present, should be at once removed. Not roughly, however. The same application of water, as for hcemor- rhage, will gradually suffice to dislodge and carry away grit, etc., or the particles may be lightly brushed off with a wet sponge.