95 INFLAMMATION. instead of tlie throbbing of approaching suppuration. The redness deepens into purple, and thence to a livid hue, a change of colour due to stagnation of the blood in the dying part. The swelling, moreover, is peculiar, for here the textures are disintegrating and softening, macerated also by the effused fluid in which they are soaked. Hence a flabby softness is presented. Phlegmonous erysipelas, as it advances, well iUustrates these signs of gangrenous inflammation. Their diagnostic value is assured by their constancy and exclusive- ness; they are never absent collectively in gangrene resulting from inflammation, nor present collectively in any other disease. Acute burning pain is, perhaps, the earliest or premonitory symptom. From this condition of local disorganization the constitutional dis- order at once commences. More insidious, its symptoms resemble those of pyEemia, although differing in degree. A wild, apprehensive look, with great restlessness, are conspicuous ; the features and manner at length become more composed, and the face assumes a pallid hue. The skin over the whole body and the tunicse conjunctivae sometimes acquire a peculiar yellow colour. Utter prostration of mind and of muscular power gradually supervenes, and a quivering subsultus tendi- num. The pulse beats very feebly, rapidly, and irregularly, feeHng like a rough wire drawn under the finger. The secretions are soon perverted; the skin, at first hot and dry, is now bathed with a cold, clammy sweat; the urine, fetid and scanty, may be suppressed; a brown, rough, dry tongue is accompanied with nausea and a putrid diarrhoea. As the powers of organic and of animal life fail, involuntary excito-motions predominate; spasms and convulsions shake the mori- bund body, while coma ends in death. This represents the course of an extreme case of gangrenous inflam- mation ; but, short of it, various degrees of the same constitutional disturbance occur in different cases, and it represents also the constitu- tional disturbance which proceeds from spreading gangrene. But the gangrene may cease to spread. The reddish-brown tint of the skin in advance of the dead part becomes brighter and more cir- cumscribed. Shortly, a white raised line of demarcation is seen in the living skin, immediately adjoining the dead portion. Soon this line melts away into a groove by ulceration; extending deeper, it forms a fissure, and successively passing down through tissue after tissue at length converges, and completely detaches the whole of the dead parts. While the living organism is thus separating itself from the slougli, adhesive inflammation precedes the line or fissure of ulceration in its length and depth, sealing the blood-vessels, so as effectually to exclude any further communication with the dead tissues, and prevent absorp- tion of their debris. The typhoid type of fever passes off, and is exchanged for some degree of inflammatory fever, which accompanies the process of separation and detachment of slough. The typhoid fever of gangrenous inflammation arises, apparently like hectic fever, from absorption of the disintegrating and dying or dead textures. This conclusion rests on two species of evidence. Firstly, the fever arises, and invariably, when mortification has advanced to sphacelus, i.e., when dead tissues are present; and, more- over, when the veins, in some cases at least, are free to absorb. Secondly, it begins to subside, and invariably, when sphacelus has