574 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. the course of the vessels. These symptoms are more marked when the superficial lymphatics are affected, and may be scarcely perceptible when the deeper lymphatics are principally the seat of inflammation. In the limbs, the superficial lymphatics on the flexor aspect are most affected; the vessels being seen coursing up the front of the forearm a,nd inner side of the arm to the axillary glands, or along the inner side of the leg and up the thigh to the inguinal glands. Beyond these glands, lymphatitis rarely extends, in the limbs. Suppuration is made known by the usual symptoms of abscess, or by those of diffuse suppuration, in the event of this condition prevailing. Considerable oedema of the part—possibly a whole limb—supervenes, as the vessels become occluded; and this symptomatic condition is more intense with inflammation of the deeper lymphatics. The general symptoms will be those of inflammatory fever, soon exchanged for prostration, or sinking into the collapse of pysemic infection. Causes.—Usually arising from some form of injury—a wound, or friction, or from the absorption of some poisonous matter, as by a dissection wound—the external and local cause of lymphatitis is fre- quently a trifling lesion. Some constitutional condition would appear to prevail in most cases; and this, probably, is of the erysipelatous nature. In persons of a broken constitution, and those who are in a low state of health, inflammation of the lymphatics readily occurs, and often from scarcely perceptible external causes; the pressure of a tight boot, inducing a few reddish streaks on the inner side of the leg and thigh, with swelling and tenderness of the inguinal glands; or a slight abrasion on the hand being followed by similar inflam- mation of the lymphatics along the inner side of the arm, extending to the axillary glands. Course and Terminations.—(1.) Resolution takes place not unfre- quently, even in those who seem most susceptible of the disease. The reddish streaks fade away, and the oedema subsides. (2.) Or, in- flammation having ceased, the indurated cords may remain, with brawny swelling, for some time. (3.) Suppurative lymphatitis often leads to the formation of abscesses in the sun*ounding cellular texture, and possibly sloughing. (4.) Pyaemic infection is a frequent conse- quence, proceeding, probably, from the direct transmission of pus from the interior of the vessels. Treatment.—The application of a few leeches, along the course of the vessels, may be appropriate in the absence of an erysipelatous | tendency; but warm fomentations, elevation of the limb, and rest will always be suitable, and generally prove sufiicient to reduce the inflammation. Alkaline salines and other mild depletory measures are auxiliary at an early period. Abscesses should be opened without delay, and chronic oedema is best overcome by careful bandaging and blistering, or the application of mercurial ointment. Stimiilants will soon become requisite in the course of this disease. Wine, brandy, and ammonia must be freely administered; the latter, I think, has a depressing influence, when continued for any length of time; and any stimulant supplies only a prop, to be withdrawn in proportion as nourishing food can be taken and assimilated. The treatment of pysemia, as a consequence of lym- phatitis, presents nothing peculiar. I