601 COMPLICATED FBACTUEES. Fracture syphilis, Fig. 199, Fig. 200. •connected with either lesion as predisposing to its recurrence, or as afEecting the process of its repair. Fracture may be complicated by association with injury to a large artery or nerve, by extensive laceration of the muscles, by extending into a joint, or by an accompanying dislocation. (Fig. 198.) It may be associated also with injury to some special part or internal organ; as fracture of the pelvis implicating the bladder, of the ribs wounding the lung or pericardium, or of the skull injuring the brain. Then again. Fracture may be complicated by association with some morhid condition, local or constitutional. Thus, certain blood-diseases predispose to and retard or arrest the formation of callus. Rickets, cancer, scrofula, and scurvy, have severally this twofold effect; while febrile disturbance, erysipelas, starv- ation, and jjerhaps pregnancy, severely tend to prevent union. Treatment.—Two pathological considerations are of general practical importance and applicability, in relation to the treatment of the various complica- tions of Fracture—simple or compound. Istly, Is the complication any mor- bid condition or conditions in operation, locally or con- stitutionally, which affect unfavourably the natural jDrocess of repair ? In this case, the treatment must be entirely subject to such one or more conditions. 2ndly, Is the complication any injury or injuries, additional to Fracture ? In this case, the treatment of the fracture may be of entire subordinate import- ance, even although it be, as in many such cases, severely compound. Diseased Callus, and Deformed Unioit.—These conditions represent the unfavourable terminations of United Fracture. The whole pathology of Diseased Callus is that of Diseases of Bone in general; but they may severally be associated with Deformed Union after Fracture. Structural Conditions.—Deformed Union of Fracture appears in •various shapes, according to the relative position, of the fragments, (a.) Union with displacement; angular, rotatory, or transverse, with over- lapping of the fragments; and oblique or longitudinal displacements. (Fig. 199.) The most singular and extreme degree of deformity resulting from the union of fracture I ever met with, is here shown. (Fig. 200.) The shaft of the femur is united at an angle of 75°. In the other thigh of the same person, a fracture had united at the same angle. Both specimens arc in the rich collection of the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, (h.) Union of two adjoining parallel