70 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. receiving corresponding increments of heat, and an unwonted afflux of chemically changing material, thus in its turn undergoes similar changes, chemical and calorific; and this process is then extended, through the circulation of the blood, to all the textures in the body. Every tissue, according to its chemical mobility, participating in the excitement, thus reflects in a lesser degree the disorder of the inflamed part, and contributes its share to that overproduction of vfaste material and of heat which characterizes inflammatory fever. As the blood gets hotter and hotter, more and more do the symptoms of fever become developed; as the blood subsequently gets cooler, so do they decline. The "crisis" of febrility consists in a rapid, and generally continuous, rise of temperature; the "lysis," in a slow, and usually intermittent, return to the normal standard. Certain of the phenomena which precede and accompany in- flammatory fever are diflicult of explanation. I allude more particu- larly to inappetency and thirst. Healthy hunger and thirst are now generally allowed by physiologists to be sensations expressing corre- sponding requirements of the system, rather than proceeding from conditions of the stomach. These sensations, observes Dr. Carpenter, bear no constant relation to the amount of solid or liquid aliment in the stomach, whilst they do correspond with the excess of demand in the system over the supply afforded by the blood; and they abate by the introduction of the requisite material into the circulating blood, even though this be not accomplished in the usual manner by the ingestion of food or drink into the stomach. Agreeably to this physiological provision, inflammatory fever should be attended with hunger, rather than inappetency. Albumen is the pabulum most extensively demanded by the tissues for their support, and its propor- tion in the blood declines considerably during inflammation; yet this deficiency is accompanied with the loss of appetite. Again, the secretions are suppressed, and water, therefore, retained in the blood; yet this excess is attended with incessant thirst. The rise of temperature—to perhaps 107° Fahr.—during inflammatory fever may be due, partly, to suppression of the perspiration, whereby heat is retained which would otherwise pass off by evaporation from the skin; and the excited nervous system probably contributes to the actual production of heat. But the principal source of increased heat "would appear to be the chemical changes in the textures of the in- flamed part. Causes; External and Internal,—Exciting and Predisposing.—In common with most diseases, the etiology of Inflammation relates to causes without and within the body ; and the latter, at least, may have either an immediate, or a predisposing causative influence. The External causes of inflammation are manifold, but they may all be comprehended under four heads :—(1) Mechanical injury or irrita- tion, as wounds, fractures, dislocations ; or foreign bodies, introduced into the organism, as grit, portions of clothing, a splinter of wood, a bullet, and parasites, animal and vegetable; (2) Heat and Cold; (3) Chemical agents which decompose or kill living animal matter, as strong acids, caustic alkalies, chloride of zinc, and other escharotics ; (4) Vital irritants, or animal and vegetable poisonous matters, and some mineral poisons; as the venom of noxious animals and plants, cantharides, mustard, capsicum, essential oils, arsenic, etc.