608 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. ends m a somewliat contused state, is less favourable to healin<> Both modes of operation convert the fracture into compound. Ex- cision was first practised by White, of Manchester, in 1760, and it has since been attended with variable success in the hands of diiferent Surgeons. Of 39 cases collected bj Norris, in which the ends of bone were excised or rasped, 24 were successful, 7 remained ununited and 6 were fatal. ' Excision is, in my opinion, peculiarly appropriate where the ends of bone cannot bo retained in apposition, owing to an oblique direction of the ununited fracture—a comparatively rare case; or to deformity of the bone, as from rickets. A successful case of this kind, in which I excised an inch of either end of bone, has already been referred to. In fracture, from, or with, locally diseased bone ; in compound fracture, with protrusion and contusion of the fragments ; and in all cases of fracture completely and persistently ununited; excision is specially indicated, and may be practised successfully. Suhcutaneotis or super- ficial bones are peculiarly eligible for the opei-ation. Its performance should be guided by two most important rules: the one negative —not to disturb the ends of bone from their bed, more than is neces- sary for excision; the other a positive injunction—to remove as much bone as may be requisite, thin slice after thin slice, if necessary, to expose a healthy surface of bone at either end. Their apposition, or, at the most, easy contact, is then the only local condition essential to union. Primary union should be solicited by closing the aperture, thus endeavouring to reduce the fracture to the simple condition. Other operations have been proposed and practised, to excite reparation. The passing a seton hetioeen the ends, as was fii"st success- fully applied by Dr. Physick, of Philadelphia, in 1802 ; or, when this proceeding is impracticable, passing a seton around each end, as was suggested by Oppenheim. But, either way, this operation does not remove the inert ends of bone, nor can the fracture possibly be reduced to a simple condition. The seton should not be allowed to remain longer than to induce inflammation, without much suppuration. This may take place in a week or ten days; or by that time the ends of bone may be in a well of pus. Success has followed this operation, in fracture of the lower jaw, the clavicle, bones of the forearm, and the humerus ; while in the other chosen seat of ununited fracture, the femur, it has been nearly a total failure. A loop of silver wire around either fragment, has been substituted for the seton; whereby also the ends have been tied together, or the wire has been tightened from time to time, until it has cut its way out. Both these modifications of the metallic ligature are equally objectionable, essentially, although not equally, provocative of profuse suppuration. Metallic ligatures have proved successful in the hands of Horeau; J. K. Eodgers, Mott, and Cheeseman, of New York ; N. R. Smith, and Flaubert. _ But Norris saw an instance of ununited fractured patella, in which this treat- ment was fatal on the fourth day. (c.) False-joint—incomplete—presents a different structural con- dition, yet a further consequence of ununited fracture. Any operation of a destructive character, as by the removal of the ends of bone-— although partially absorbed and indisposed, therefore, to unite—is overruled by the fact that a connecting medium, in the shape of a baud or bands of ligamentous tissue, already exists, which may be induced to