654 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. This relative position of the fragments, in the middle third of the bone, existed in a case which I examined within a few hours after the accident; it having then proved fatal. The preparation ia in the Museum of the Royal Free Hospital. ^ The 8ig7is of oblique fracture in the shaft are—deformity of the thigh, corresponding to the displacement, and occasioning a muscular fulness on the inner, and less so on the outer, aspect of the thigh ; mobility, and crepitus, on extending and rotating the limb; shorten- ing, to about one inch, but increasing with muscular action, and some eversion ; pain, and inability to use the limb. Transverse frac- ture, in children, is accompanied with angular deformity ; the ends of the fragments being incompletely displaced, and hitching on each other. The other signs are the same, differing only in degree from tbose of oblique fracture in the adult. These signs are usually so well marked, and especially those connected with the seat of fracture, that the nature of the injury can hardly be overlooked, and may be suspected at a glance. It is thus also that fracture in the shaft of any bone is always more readily detected than at either articular end, and where the diagnosis of the two or three fractures there liable to occur is even more difficult. Causes.—Direct violence undoubtedly may be regarded as almost the only mode of fracture in any portion of the shaft; unless it be immediately above the condyles or immediately below the small trochanter. Thus, the passage of a carriage or cart across the thigh, or the fall of a piece of timber directly on it, represent the occasions of fracture. Indirect violence, as a fall on the feet or an indirect blow, may, indeed, fracture the shaft; but, more commonly, the bone just above the condyles, or just below the small trochanter. Union by bone takes place, usually, in the course of about six weeks Fig. 261. or two months; but rarely, if ever, without some overlapping of the fragments and proportionate shortening of the limb. ^Treatment.—Many plans of treatment have been devised, and very many forms of retentive apparatus contrived, for the treatment of Fractures of the Femur. (1.) The long, straight splint will be found most effectual in all frac- tures of this bone; excepting, probably, fracture near the small trochanter above, or near the condyles below; in the former of which, the upper fragment is much tilted forwards and outwards by the