16 THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OP SURGERY. have been struck with the well-marked bicipital depression, especially visible on a thin subject. If injected, the brachial artery can almost be distinguished as a prominent line throughout its course. Apparently, a single incision would bring one down upon the vessel, and so it does. The skin, gluey and adhesive, hangs upon the knife; nor does the incision gape ; the artery is soon exposed, not being overlaid by the contracted biceps, and only, perhaps, obscured by the turgid vein on its inner side. Contrast all this with the same proceeding during life. We observe no such well-defined groove to guide our incision; the skin yields before the knife with a crimp and elastic resistance ; the wound gapes; the swollen and vibratile belly of the biceps muscle, especially if amply developed, overlays the artery, while the vein, perhaps not so turgid, immediately conceals it. More or less haemorrhage will also further obscure the vessel, which can only be recognized by its beauti- ful fawn colour and its pulsating under the finger. I have purposely excluded the brachial plexus of nerves from this sketch, in order more clearly to contrast the dead with the living. This illustration will apply, mutatis miUandis, to operations for the ligature of other arteries; and the experience of every practical Surgeon will supply him with the more extended application of the same principle to all other surgical operations. We must, therefore, acknowledge also the guidance of living conditions in the performance of surgical operations. The condition of life modifies certain physical appearances, and chiefly those affected by pathological anatomy. Thus, the colour, consistence, elasticity, and even the size and shape of the various parts of the body, their situation, position, and relation to contiguous parts, are presented to the Surgeon, when modified by the twofold conditions of Disease and Life combined. Pathology,—conjoined with Anatomy,—is, therefore, our guide during surgical operations. In proportion as we are familiar with I^athological conditions, by so much are we enabled to foresee, and to provide for, the peculiar appearances and conditions which the knife discloses, and to recognize them as they are successively presented in surgical operations. Guided by this anticipatory knowledge, our operations are no longer discoveries made by dissection, hut 2Jlanned and methodical proceedings, conducted on known principles; in fact, an Art, based on the science of Anatomy supplemented by Pathology. The twofold Principle I have advanced will be further elucidated by tracing the comhined influence of disease and life on the scenes of the chief Operations of Surgery. And here the results of inflammation, meeting us so constantly, first invite attention. The swelling that accompanies an effusion of serum, or pus, in the event of suppuration, deepens and displaces those tissues amid which it infiltrates. Their physical properties are soon changed. Cellular tissue, so abundant, assumes the appearance of wet tow; muscle becomes soddened and discoloured; the larger blood-vessels perhaps alone escape, appearing dissected out and isolated from their adjoining tissues. Or, the fibrin effused solidifies, and its more or less complete organization ensues. If the latter change, then induration and subsequent contraction of the tissues affected, together present pathological conditions which contrast with those arising from the mechanical agency of fluid. If