333 TEiTANUS. any aggravation of the dyspeptic and hepatic symptoms which are commonly present. Chloral, in doses of from grs.xx. to 3 ss., may be substituted for opium, but its action is less certain. Nourishing food should, as soon as possible, assist or supersede these more immediate resources. Not unfrequently any food is almost rejected by a sort of hickuppy vomiting, a symptom which is in itself distressing to the patient. Small pieces of ice swallowed occasionally may then afford relief; and hydrocyanic acid, or creosote, are sometimes even more useful. A brisk purgative, however, to remove any source of in- testinal irritation, should be followed by small doses of blue pill, with rhubarb and hyoscyamus. The restraint of a strait-waistcoat may become necessary to prevent the patient interfering with the dressings or apparatus at the wounded part; but the increased tendency to cerebral effasion which is provoked by such resistance must not be overlooked. An ice-bag to the head will then be advisable. The question as to the performance of a Surgical operation during Shock, is determined by two considerations :—the persistence, or not, of any cause in operation, as, for example, a bad compound fracture ; and, secondly, the pathological fact, that the nervous system and cir- culation already in the state of Shock, is less susceptible of further shock than after reaction. An almost irmnediate surgical operation thus forms part of, and joins issue with, the injury for which it is per- formed. After that period of juncture, it is better to make a compro- mise with the vital powers, by waiting for incomplete reaction. GTiloroform is detrimental, in proportion as Shock prevails, and equally useless, owing to the comparative insensibility of the patient. CHAPTER Xm. TETANUS. Tetanus (reivco, to stretch) signifies a violent and involuntary contract tion of the voluntary muscles, attended with severe pain and rigidity. Symptoms, and Diagnosis.—The spasmodic contractions having com- menced, never entirely relax throughout the course of the disease ; they are to7iic, thus distinguishing them from intermittent or clonic spasms in ordinary convulsions, as in hysteria or apoplexy; and com- plete consciousness is retained to the last, this additional peculiarity distinguishing the tetanic from clonic spasms in epileptic convulsions, and from those of hydrophobia. Tetanus approaches and proceeds by the following series of spas- modic contractions, each continuing in the order of their succession. Stiffness is first experienced about the root of the tongue, which is usually retracted. Articulation therefore is imperfect. A sense of painful rigidity in the posterior muscles of the neck, and some difficulty in moving the jaw, are soon experienced. If the jaw be fixed, and tetanus proceeds no further, it is known by the name of irisrmis, or "lock-jaw." Grenerally speaking, other sets of muscles become in- volved. The facial muscles are affected; the angles of the mouth