SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 612 cartilage being dislodged to one side, usually at its articulation with the osseous septum, although I have seen a similar displacement at the junction with the alar cartilage, just within the nostril. It was pro- duced by a fall on the nose, and the subject, a little girl, looked much disfigured by the broken-nosed appearance. Examination within the nostril will at once disclose the nature of the injury; the plate of bone, or the cartilage, can be seen and felt projecting to one side ; and in the latter case, the whitish aspect of the cartilage appears plainly through the thin, tense mucous membrane. The fracture or displacement may be more or less readily reduced by manipulation within the nostril; but to maintain the parts in position, by the application of compresses, will tax the Surgeon's ingenuity. (3.) Fracture of the Malar Bone.—Comminuted in most cases, displacement of the fragments is inconsiderable, although spicule may be driven into the temporal muscle. The mobility and. crepitation of the broken jjortions ai'e scarcely rendered imperceptible by the swelling, which, however, is often most conspicuous. Fracture of other facial bones usually co-exists. As a very rare form of injury, the bone may be driven in, and perhaps also the antrum of the superior maxilla, thus causing a marked flattening of the cheek, and irregularity in the line of the teeth. This double displacement and impaction occurred in a patient of mine, who was thrown from a carriage, on to his face, sustaining at the same time a compound fracture of the external table of the frontal bone. He recovered from this injury, but the dis- figurement remained. Direct violence is the only cause, and the violence must be very great, as the bone, thick and solid, and supported by its surrounding articulations, offers great resistance. Hence, fracture rarely happens, compared with that of the nasal bones, although the malar is equally exposed. A heavy blow on the malar bone produces a starred and radiated fracture, just as a thick plate of glass, in a frame, is broken by a stone. Treatment.—Cdidi lotions may be applied in the first instance. Adjustment of the fragments will hardly be necessary, or may be accomplished by manipulation, partly,'within the mouth ; they are then retained in position by compresses suitably placed. The pain insures rest, any attempt to masticate or speak being intolerable. Fragments driven into the temporal muscle should be removed. (4.) Fracture of the Zygoma is liable to occur with, or without, frac- ture of the malar bone. Some displacement inwards or outwards—a depression or projection—may be felt, but can scarcely be seen, as swelling soon supervenes; rendering also any mobility or creiutation, perhaps, imperceptible. A certain stiffness is sometimes experienced in opening and closing the mouth, owing to impaction of the fragments in the tendon of the temporal muscle. In one case, I found the articu- lation of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone with the malar severed, unaccompanied by any fracture. The broken or disarticulated ends of bone must be kept in apposi- tion secundum artem. (5.) Fracture of the Upper Jaw.—'Yhe nasal process of thesupenor maxilla is liable to fracture with the nasal bones; and this must