52 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. superseded the far less exact appreciation of temperature by the sense of touch. For this method of observation, " Temperature Charts " have been constructed, to accurately record the temperature of a patient, at the two most significant periods, morning and evening, in the course of every twenty-four hours. The state of the Respiration, and of the Pulse, each with regard to one important element—its frequency—is taken in conjunction with the Temperature. The chart on page 61 (Fig. 6) represents the rise and fall of tem- perature daily, morning and evening, in a case of traumatic inflam- matory fever, from compound fracture of the leg, under my care in the Hospital. After the fever-curve in this case, the influence of disturbing causes in producing an increase of temperature, is indicated also by the rise which occurred from readjustment of the splint, and when suppuration commenced. For the record of observations in ordinary cases, a tabular view will perhaps sufi&ce, as in the following form :— No._ Stjrgeon_ in Register. Ward House Surgeon Dresser Name Disease Date. Hour. Temp. Pulse. Resp. Remarks. Date. Hoar. Temp. Pulse. Resp. Remarks. But the characters of the Pulse afford no less faithful indications as to the state of the circulation ; and here the invention of the Sphygmo- graph has at length supplied the most exact and intelligible evidence ; for with this instrument the pulse wave writes, and records, its own testimony. Pulse-tracings must, however, be read and interpreted aright by the clinical observer. The use of the Sphygmograph in the investigation of disease is not generally understood; and as Dr. Mahomed has made this instrument and its applications the subject of special study, I am indebted to him for the folloAving description. On the Pulse in Disease, and the Sphygmograph.—" Various forms of Sphygmographs have been contrived, but none ever obtained re- cognition as an instrument likely to be of use in clinical medicine, till M. Marey produced his, which, with some modifications, is the one now in general use. His instrument was portable, could be applied •without much difiiculty, and yielded valuable information with regard to the circulation. The chief fault about this instrument is the in- ability to vary or gauge the amount of pressure applied to the artery,