GUNSHOT WOUNDS. 411 Fig. 100.* the probe is withdrawn, this instrument will thus offer the requisite facility and certainty of diagnosis. In the well-known instance of Garibaldi, it will be remembered that a ball was detected with this instrument by Nelaton, after search had been otherwise made, repeatedly in vain. A probe should be introduced lightly, or dropped into the wound, not to miss the track of the ball; any thrust of the instrument might make a false passage ; but if in the right course, the probe can be advanced almost by its own weight towards the ball, while the Surgeon endeavours to overcome any hitch, by adapting the position of the part so as to restore the track. The finger or a probe will glide most readily in the course which the missile has taken; the tissues having been thrown down in this direction, as grass falls before the wind. Enlargement of the Untrance-Aferture.—A slight incision is some- times absolutely necessary for the removal of a bullet or other foreign body; but the rule of practice which formerly prevailed of invariably enlarging the aperture by incision and to some considerable extent was an error; suggested by the false pathology of thus converting a supposed " poisoned" wound into a simple incised wound, and of giving free vent to the noxious discharge. Any foreign body, of irregular shape, e.g., a fragment of shell, more generally needs release to effect its dislodgment and ex- traction ; the circumstances in this case at once showing the necessity, and regulating the extent, of incision. ]3ut unless for an obvious purpose, the rule should be to avoid making any enlargement of a gunshot wound, as being an extension of the original injury. To remove a hullet some form of bullet- extractor is generally requisite or advan- tageous. The most convenient form is here i^epresented. (Fig. 100.) The sharp points of this instrument will readily seize a leaden bullet. Any kind of forceps is somewhat objectionable, owing to the dila- tation of the textures in using the instru- ment. A bullet lodged in bone may be extracted by an elevator, aided by gouging away any overhanging portion of bone. Any other foreign body, as a portion of clothing, which might be mistaken for some natural texture, should be searched for with the finger and removed by manipu- lation rather than with forceps, which are apt to seize both indiscriminately. Ex- amination of the dress will probably show whether a portion was carried with the shot into the wound. It should, however, be remem- bered that any such fragment may have been withdrawn in undressing ,*. Luer's bullet-extractor, which was used generally in the Franco-German War (Weiss.) • 0