422 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. it IS accompanied witli congestion of internal organs; tlie brain, lungs, and raucous membrane of the gastro-intestinal canal. The duration of collapse is variable, averaging about 48 hours—two days. Goiirse and Terminations.—{I.) Shock, or Gonrjestion, proves fatal in many cases within the first two days; and indeed of all the fatal cases of burn, a great majority die in this period. Mr. Erichsen collected 50 fatal cases, and Mr. T. Holmes 75 such cases of bum; the former, with a view of determining the organs most frequently affected in each degree and period ; the latter, with the special view of determining the mode and cause of death. Of the whole 125 cases, 35 died on the first or second day; but as the great majority of those who are burnt to death are not examined, the proportion is much greater than this. Thus, of 119 other cases brought to St. George's Hospital, 79 died in this period. In 16—Erichsen's proportion—of the 35 cases, the brain and its membranes were found congested, with more or less serous effusion into the ventricles or arachnoid, in 15 cases. The brain in the other case was not examined. In the remaining 19 cases, the brain was examined only in a few, but in 1 only was it healthy in respect of structure and vascularity. The thoracic viscera were congested in 8 of the 16 cases, and in 6 of the 19 cases; the congestion having passed into demonstrable inflammation in 1 of the former, and in 3 of the latter; thus making thoracic congestion in one-half the cases examined. The abdominal organs were somewhat less frequently congested; in 12 of the 16 cases, in 3 only of the 19. The mucous membrane of the pharnyx and larnyx is extremely liable to be con- gested, apparently owing to the inhalation of flame or heated air during the accident; of the 19 cases collected by Mr. Holmes, which died in. the first two days, some appearance of this kind was found in 13. The congestion in the pharnyx very generally ceases abruptly at the com- mencement of the oesophagus; in some rare cases passing down into the stomach. (2.) Beaction and Inflammation constitute the next, or second period; extending from the end of the second day to the end of the second week. During this period, 25 out of the 50 cases died; and 29 out of the 75 cases; or 54 out of 125. Tlie brain, lungs, and intestines are the viscera principally affected ; laryngeal cases usually die earlier. In the 25 cases, the brain was affected in 14; 11 being simple conges- tion, and 3 serous effusion. Of the 29 cases, the brain was not ex- amined in the great majority ; in 3 it was congested, with effusion into the ventricles or arachnoid; but there was no evidence of true inflam- mation in any case. The lungs are more frequently affected. In the 25 cases, these organs were congested in 10 cases, and inflamed in 6. Of the 29 cases, inflammation of the lungs or pleura had occurred in 7 (in one of which, however, it probably existed before the accident), and congestion was noted in 5 others. The abdominal viscera—Uver, spleen, or kidneys—are perhaps never affected as a consequence of burns, except by pytemia. But the mucous membrane of the gastro- intestinal canal is usually inflamed, and probably ulcerated; with, in some cases, evidence of peritonitis. Inflammation followed by ulcera- tion of the duodenum is a notable occurrence, in the second period of burn, to which Mr. Curling first drew attention. In the 25 cases, ulceration of this portion of intestine was found in 6; in the 29 cases, in 4 of them; making a total of 12 such cases out of 54. In 3 more of