SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 560 softening, as of the brain, when the cerebral arteries are affected; hcBmorrhage, from rupture of a degenerated vessel; secondary hiBmor-' rhage, after ligature; aneurism, from partial rupture, or dilatation, from general expansion of the artery ; gangrene, as in the leg, from' contraction and partial occlusion of the main arteries in the limb. Ossification of Arteries and Senile Gangrene.—Ossification or calcareous degeneration of the coats of arteries — relating to the principal arteries of the leg—was noticed by Thomson and Hodgson, in connection with the dry form of mortification or mummification of the toes and feet; and which being incident to old age, is known as Senile Gangrene. Sir B. Brodie more particularly investigated the pathology of this disease, and according to his observations the structural changes are summarily these:—In the leg, calcareous degeneration of the larger arteries, and fibrous thickening of the smaller ones, are accompanied with a more or less inelastic and con- tracted state of the vessels, and perhaps the coagulation of fibrine within them; conditions which, together, produce a partial or complete obliteration of the channels through which arterial blood should be supplied. Symptoms.—In either or both legs, numbness, coldness, and weak- ness are experienced from a defective supply of arterial blood; these symptoms come and go, being present whenever circumstances demand a more active circulation, which the unyielding arteries can- not allow ; absent when a sluggish circulation is sufficient. Thus, rest, posture, and warmth may maintain this sufficiency; while active exercise, and any posture or pressure that further impedes the circulation, is soon attended with a sense of weakness in the limb, numbness, and coldness. Flying pains in the limb, or fixed pain in a spot, are sometimes ex- perienced. Under these functional symptoms, as affecting one or both legs, gangrene is always more or less imminent. Senile Gangrene.—Qommencixig, generally, on the pnlpy portion of one or more of the toes, a port-wine red colour or a black discolouration appears, preceded by inflammation, or by a stinging sensation, or by numbness and coldness, &s premonitory symptoms; but frequently without any such precursory local symptom. Soon a vesicle arises over this discoloured spot, or more than one vesicle. The vesicle or vesicles burst, disclosing the true skin in the blackened state of sphacelus. It is encircled with a dusky red hue. This death-warrant advances, perhaps slowly, extends over the toes and back of the foot, uniformly and symmetrically, followed up by the black shade of sphacelus. The accompanying pain is usually severe, though intermittent. Spreading up to the instep, senile gangrene presents the appearance as if the foot were thrust into a black slipper trodden down towards the heel. The dead part is black, shrunken, and mummified—the very type of dry gangrene. If both feet be effected, a pair of black hoofs is presented. (See Fig. 77.) It spreads to a variable extent; gaining the ankle, life usually succumbs to the consequent constitutional depression; occa- sionally, it may extend as high as the knee, or even to the thigh. But the limitation cannot be predicated, the causative condition of the arteries being undeterminable in its extent. Nature alone decides the "line of demarcation" betwixt the living and dying parts. The accompanying constitutional disturbance or fever is of the typhoid type. Rarely, senile gangrene may occur in the fingers, a case having been seen by Billroth.