ANEURISM. 473 Ohliteration of an Artery without Division.—Since the period of Jolin Hunter, whose method of operation, on the femoral artery for the cure of popliteal aneurism, originally consisted in the compressing applica- tion of a ligature, or ligatures, without any division of the coats of the vessel, this principle of treatment has, from time to time, attracted attention ; the object being the consequent preservation of the con- tinuity of the artery, thus to prevent the risk of secondary haemorrhage. Various procedures and contrivances have been devised for this pur- pose. Thus, temporary compression of the exposed artery, as by means of Assalini's compressor, Crampton's presse-artere, or Porter's wire-compressor, impi'oved by Stokes, an instrument whereby acu- pressure is effected; or ligature has been used, but made of silver wire, or consisting of some animal substance, such as chamois leather, introduced by Dr. Physick, of Philadelphia; buck-skin thread, employed by Dr. Jamieson, of Baltimore; or moistened catgut, which was the material, as first suggested by Sir A. Cooper, and subsequently pre- ferred in Porta's practice. Animal ligatures are cut off short, and left in the wound, which heals over them ; any such ligature is better tolerated as a foreign body, and it may possibly become absorbed, leaving the external coat of the artery undivided, but the vessel oblite- rated. Garholised catgut—a more recent appliance, in accordance with Lister's antiseptic principle of treatment—seems to answer even better ; the wound almost always healing by primary union, and burying the ligature. Arteries of the largest size, as the common iliac, external iliac, femoral, common carotid, and brachial arteries, have been deli- - gated with animal ligatures ; as by Porta and Bickersteth, both of whom used catgut. The results of this method of treatment, by ligature, have been encouraging ; that—as Mr. T. Holmes has shown-—arteries may be tied and obliterated, but without their continuity being interrupted, thereby alJording much security against secondary haemorrhage; while the wound heals by primary union. On the other hand, failures in both respects must not be overlooked ; the artery becoming divided, as after ordinary ligature, and the wound opening up with abscess and dis- charge. iii. Manipulative and Operative resources, corresponding to the second mode of natural cure—i.e., retardation of the passage of blood, through the aneurism, by obstruction of the distal portion of artery; a piece of clot being dislodged from the sac and washed into the mouth of the distal portion, or becoming impacted within it, some distance off. (1.) Manipulation.—This plan of treatment was introduced by Sir W. Fergusson. It consists in so thumbing the aneurism as to dislodge a piece of clot into the distal portion of artery. The manipulative pro- cedure designed for this purpose is thus described : " The patient was seated in a chair, and I placed the flat end of my thumb on the aneu- risma.1 tumour so as to cover the prominence. I then pi'essed, until all the fluid blood had passed from the sac, and I could feel that the upper side of the aneurism was pressed against the lower. I now gave a rubbing motion to the thumb, and felt a friction of surfaces within the flattened mass. The movements were little more than momentary, but they were such, as I had preconceived." Two cases of subclavian aneurism were subjected to this treatment; neither was unequivocally successful, and both were attended with very alarming symptoms at