DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 747 FiQ. 352.* humerus rests against the anterior margin of the glenoid cavity, and the capsule is laid open behind; the fragment of the coracoid process is attached to the coraco-brachialis muscle. The biceps tendon is uninjured. Congenital Dislocations of the SJioulder-joint. —Three varieties are recognized by Guerin : dislocation of the head of the humerus down- wards ; downwards and inwards, the head of the bone resting against the ribs ; and sublux- ation upwards and outwards, the head of the bone sliding in this direction, favoured by a corresponding displacement of the coracoid and acromion processes. Dr. Robert Smith has met with only two forms of congenital dislocation of the humerus, subcoracoid and subacromial; of the former he has seen several examples. These dislocations, arising from either a paralytic condition of the muscles, or from developmental imperfections of the articulation, are necessarily incurable. Dislocations of the Elbow.—This joint is liable to eight recognized dislocations ; four of which relate to both bones, one to the ulna alone, and three to the radius alone. Thus, (1) dislocation of both bones backwards; (2) outwards; (3) inwards ; (4) forwards ; (5) disloca- tion of the ulna alone, backwards; (6) dislocation of the radius alone, backwards ; (7) forwards; (8) outwards. To these recognized dislo- cations may be added another ; dislocation of both bones outwards, and upwards laterally on the humerus, constituting an " external latero- angular dislocation " of the elbow-joint, as I so named this form of dislocation, in the only instance I have ever seen or can find recorded. (See Fig. 334.) Structural Conditions.—(1.) Dislocation of the radius and ulna hack- wards is the most frequent form. The head of the radius is lodged behind the external condyle, and the coronoid process of the ulna lies in the olecranon fossa; the lower end of the humerus resting on the anterior surface of the radius and ulna. (Fig. 363.) All the four ligaments are rup- tured, leaving only some of the fibres of the internal lateral one. The annular ligament remains entire. The brachialis anticus and biceps muscles are stretched or torn, the former sometimes carrying away a portion of the coronoid process; but the other muscles are relaxed, the triceps posteriorly, and all the muscles originating from either con- dyle of the humerus, excepting the supinator radii brevis. The median nerve is pressed for- wards by the humerus ; and the ulna nerve is, sometimes, painfully stretched over the projecting extremity of the ulna backwards. In the specimen represented there is an old un- reduced dislocation of both bones of the forearm backwards. The head of the radius is lodged at the back of the external condyle, where * St. Thomas's Hosp. Mus., B. 12. f St. George's Hosp. Mus., 1, 108. Fig. 353.t