GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 140 * Giant-celled sarcoma. (Virchow.) _ The yellow substance, the white bands, and the capsule, alike con- sist of fibro-cellular tissue, more condensed in the latter portions; but the whole is remarkably succulent, being infiltrated with a serous fluid, which exudes plentifully and con- tinues to ooze from the cut surface. The tissue of which, together with the serous fluid, this tumour consists, represents an immature state of the normal fibro-cellular tissue. With many well-developed filaments, there are more abundant nuclei and cells forming fibres— spindle-shaped cells, or with fila- mentous prolongations, in various stages of development. (Figs. 37 and 38.) Yellow elastic tissue is very rarely present, unlike its fre- quency in ordinary connective tissue. Analogous as the texture of this tumour is to ordinary fibro-cellular tissue, it is, nevertheless, of rare occurrence, compared with other tumours—fatty, or carti- laginous—whose component textures are reproduced far less frequently than this tissue. Situation.—Fibro-cellular tumour occurs most frequently in the scrotum, labium, or tissues by the side of the vagina; or in the deep- seated inter-muscular spaces in the thigh and arm. As out-growths, some proceed from, and are connected with, the mucous membrances, forming polypi—e.g.., in the nasal passages, very rarely in the antrum; in the external auditory meatus ; in the uterus, and urinary bladder. As cutaneous out-growths, they appear on the scrotum, prepuce, nymph se, clitoris and its prepuce. In one instance, a fibro-cellular out-growth—which I examined with the microscope after its removal from the clitoris—was the size and shape of a large cocoa-nut. It weighed thirty ounces. Fibro-cellular tumour, not out-growth, is usually solitary. Origin.—This kind of growth may begin at any period of life, but most rarely before adult age, and most frequently at middle age or later in life. It is so seldom referable to inheritance, any general disease, or to violence, that any such relation would appear to be only a coincidence. Course.—Portions of cartilage sometimes partially ossified, are occa- sionally produced in, or over, the tumour. Its texture may also degenerate. The rate of growth is variable ; being very rapid, as much as three or four pounds a year—e.g., in the scrotum; or more slowly increasing. Recurrence is very improbable, unless the tumour ^ be unusually soft and succulent, and the fibre-cells in great proportion rudimentary. Treatment.—Excision of a fibro-cellular tumour is the only effectual mode of removal. It becomes necessary owing to the increasing size of the growth. The operation cannot be accomplished with the same facility as that of a fatty tumour. Nevertheless, a thin capsule defines the lobulated mass, its connections are not very close, and the