786 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SUEGERY. 1 hand on the heel, or making extension by means of pulleys. (Fig. 400.) Pressure on the head of the tibia, according to the direction of the dis- placement, will further aid reduction. In simply lateral rotation of the astragalus, ^vith the foot Fig. 400. turned outwards or in- wards, the Surgeon will often succeed by grasp- ing thefootwithforcible adduction or abduction, ■ thus to undo the dis- ^ placement. After re- duction in any case, lateral splints with foot- pieces may be applied; but I prefer a Mcln- tyre's trough-splint, as affording a more equable support to the whole leg. The swelling around the joint is often considerable ; it, however, subsides under the influence of rest and the usual topical applications. Compound Dislocations of the ankle-joint are probably the most common of all compound Dislocations. Among the cases recorded by Sir A. Cooper, forty-five were dislocations of this joint; and among Hamilton's cases, four were dislocations inwards, and one a partial dis- location forwards. The displacements are the same, and arise from the same causes, as in simple dislocation of the ankle; but compound dislocation derives its importance from the size of this joint, and the violence of the injury. Treatment.—Preservation of the foot—without any operative inter- ference—proves successful in a far lai^ger proportion of cases than in similar injury of the knee-joint. The wound should be closed and the leg kept at rest on a Mclntyre splint. Protrusion of the tibia, with comminution, as often happens in backward dislocation, allows of excision in most cases. But severe contusion or laceration of the soft parts, including injury to the tibial arteries—in addition to compound dislocation of the joint—imperatively demands primary amimtaiion. The usual consequences of inflammation, suppuration and sloughing, or gangrene, may render secondary amputation necessary, when an j attempt to save the foot has failed. Dislocations of the Astragalus.—This bone is sometimes displaced from under the tibia, and thrown—(1) forwards, (2) imoards, or (3)['l outwards; the two latter displacements probably being inclinations of ' the bone forwards in either of these directions, thus constituting two lateral dislocations ; and occasionally it may be displaced (4) haclcwards. It may also be simply rotated on its lateral axis, without much, if any, lateral displacement; and, lastly, it is sometimes driven upwards be- tween the tibia and fibula, tearing away the intermediate ligaments and generally fracturing one or both of these bones. (1. 2. 3.) Dislocation/onward?, and inwards or outivards,m?Ljhe com- plete or incomplete. Complete dislocation of the astragalus represents its detachment from the os calcis and scaphoid bones, and its displace- ment from under the malleolar arch forwards; the bone lying upon the scaphoid and cuneiform bones. Incomplete dislocation signifies the separation of this bone from the scaphoid only, and the ejection of its