GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 234 testicle is drilled and worm-eaten, as it were; so that eventually the organ collapses and shrivels up, a fragment only of its former self. There is seldom, therefore, any protrusion of gland-substance through the fistulous scrotum; on the contrary, in a favourable case the aper- tures gradually become inverted and depressed, leaving, after the lapse of time, a puckered cicatrix, adherent to the remainmg portion of the gland, as a lasting record of all this mischief. Blood-pathology.—In concluding this summary of many local diseases, which, possessing the same general characters, are fairly asso- ciated under the name of Scrofula, it is impossible to overlook at least two general facts that indicate their blood-origin. These diseases are perversions of nutrition in "many" textures and organs simultaneously; they " migi'ate " from one locality to another, and they are occasionally symmetrical. So, therefoi-e, scrofula is, properly speaking, a blood- disease, and the diseases alluded to are but local manifestations of a constitutional cause in operation. Nothing definite is known respecting the composition of the blood in scrofula. The blood is said to be rich in its amount of fibrin, but thin, of inferior plastic quality, and poor in its proportion of red cor- puscles ; such is the result of analysis by Andral and Gavarret: that the solids of the serum are increased, and the blood-globules dimi- nished, was the result of Dr. M. Glover's analyses; and so on I might enumerate the conclusions of many other distinguished chemists. Causes.—Temperament.—Certain bodily organizations evince a ten- dency to scrofula, and beget a suspicion that it will declare itself in some way, sooner or later. Individuals thus constituted are ever verging on this morbid condition, with threatenings of its outbreak here or there; but it must be confessed that no one temperament alone possesses the scrofulous character. It is the tendency of those whose circulation is habitually weak—^are leucophlegmatic—who have flabby muscles, a dull muddy complexion, large heads, pigeon breasts, tumid bellies, and large joints; but then the strumous tendency is manifested in those persons also who, with a more active circulation, are rather of the sanguine temperament, have firmer muscles, a clear, transparent, ruddy complexion, which readily assumes a purple or livid hue by exposure to cold. The circulation, although active, is susceptible. Chilblains, therefore, not uncommonly occur in children of this tem- perament; while their yellow or reddish hair, large lustrous blue eyes, crimson-patched cheeks, and pouting upper lip, are associated with that lively, impulsive, affectionate, and precocious disposition which so often raises hopeful expectations never to be realized. In contrast, however, with this organization and with these mental endowments, the same strumous tendency may be evinced in the highest degree by those who, without any marked character of circuhv- tion, are habitually subject to biliousness. In such persons the liver seems to be their weak point. Sluggish, yet enduring power is theirs also; and hair approaching black in colour, a dark olive or yellowish complexion, and dry skin, are aptly associated with a gloomy, often resolute, and reflective disposition. Theirs is the melancholic tempera- ment. These are the chief signs of the scrofulous diathesis, although it may appear also in persons of the nervous temperament; and, indeed, the same tendency can be induced in those who are congenitally most indisposed to it when subjected to circumstances favourable to its development.