SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. 880 Ligature of an artery ia its continuity, is fully described under Ligature of Arteries. (5.) Acupressim-G has been proposed by Sir James Simpson as a substitute for ligature. It is essentially the " temporary metallic com- pression " of an artery, and it may be accomplished in either of three ways :—(1.) By passing a long needle twice through the flaps or sides of a wound, so as to cross over and compress the mouth of the bleed- ing vessel or its tube; just as in fastening a flower in the lapel of our coat we cross over and compress the stalk with the pin which fixes it, and therefore pass the pin twice through the lapel. In this method a long needle is introduced from the cutaneous surface, and its extremi- ties left out externally. -In both the other methods a common sewing- needle, threaded with iron wire, is used. The needle is introduced on the raw surface of the wound, and is therefore placed altogether internally or between the lips of the wound. The wire is only for the purpose of withdrawing the needle when no longer required. (2.) In one of the methods referred to, the needle is dipped down into the textures a little to one side of the vessel, then raised up and bridged over the artery, and finally dipped down again irit& the textures on the other side. This method, therefore, is the same as the first, but that the needle is applied altogether on the raw surface of the wound and over the artery, which it compresses. (3.) The third method consists in passing a needle tmder the vessel, transfixing the textures once. A Fig. 92.* loop of wire is passed over the point, and fastened round the eye end by a single twist, thus compressing the artery and some surrounding tissue between the needle and the wire. This method Sir James Simpson believes to be the one which will probably be most frequently practised. (Fig. 92.) In one form or other, acupressure is said to be superior to ligature, both with regard to the improbability of secondary Immon-Jiage, the * Occlusion of Arteries; the femoral arteries, after Acupressure, and Ligature —in double amputation—each twenty-four hours. (Author.)