589 FRACTURE. such projection. Alteration of position, therefore, will be necessary to relax the muscles which are acting on the upper fragment, while the lower one should be adequately supported underneath. In certain fractures, this rising of either fragment is only apparent, and really due to the natural shape of the bone, as the arching forward of the clavicle ; or it may be an acquired deformity, as convexity of the tibia, from rickets. The splints having been well adjusted, they are secured in position by a bandage, evenly applied round the limb from below upwards, and with just sufficient pressure for this purpose. ISTo further restraint is required, excepting in the case of a maniac or a delirious person. If the fracture be subcutaneous, and either fragment threaten to protrude through the integuments, that portion of the limb may be left un- covered, or the splints lightly retained by a separate roller, which can be readily removed without unbandaging the limb. 'No bandage need be applied underneath the splints, as was formerly practised, and is even now-a-days advocated by some Surgeons, with the view of preventing oedema. A bandage so placed becomes tense, as swelling inevitably ensues, and is thus apt to cause strangulation and gangrene. This result may, indeed, occur imperceptibly, and gangrene overspread the whole limb without any notable constitutional disturbance to arouse suspicion. Hence, also, in applying the bandage around the splints, in the first instance, some degree of yielding should be allowed for the supervention of swelling, the splints being bound with sufficient firm- ness only to prevent displacement of the fracture. The ■?'oZZe?--bandage is commonly used, and it is available in all cases where the limb can be moved without displacing the fracture. But rather than risk dis- placement, the toi'ZecZ-bandage of Scultetus is a convenient substitute. It consists of a series of short strips of bandage laid transversely under the Hmb. Commencing below, each strip is drawn round the limb, so as to partially overlay and seciire the next in succession. This con- trivance forms an adequately firm bandage, like the common roller, extending uninterruptedly along the limb ; but neither allow of tighten- ing and relaxation, here and there, as occasion may require. The Zoo^ecZ-bandage is specially adapted for this purpose, and without moving the limb. Double strips of bandage are placed transversely under the limb, at short intervals apart. One end of each is j^assed through the looped extremity, and, being drawn sufficiently tight, is secured by tying it to the other free end. The splints are thus fixed by a series of ligatures, any one of which can be braced or loosened at pleasure, without altering the whole. Extension must be maintained, in some cases, after the application of retentive appliances ; and this, perhaps, cannot be accomplished without some si^ecial mechanical contrivance in the splints, or other- wise. In fracture of the femur, displacement is apt to recur. Desault's or Liston's long extending splint, with a straight position of the limb, overcomes any such tendency; extension being effected by that jjortion of the bandage which passes round the foot-end of the splint, and counter-extension by a perineal band. Extension may be maintained by a weight slung from the extremity of the limb ; as from the foot, in fracture of the femur attended with unusual tendency to displacement. But a heavy weight is unnecessary; three, four, or five pounds weight will suffice to tire the muscles and overcome their resistance. In certain