TRACTURKS OF THE FOREARM. 637 Treatment. Preservation of the limb, excision, or amputation, either of which operations may be performed primarily or secondarily, have severally to be considered, as indications of treatment. Compound fracture, alone, without comminution, or much laceration of the soft parts, will allow the opportunity, at least, of preservation of the limb. . ^ , ^ t • • . Commimdion to even a considerable extent, without much injury to the soft parts, permits excision of the disorganized joint; or this operative procedure may become necessary in the event of profuse suppuration or sloughing, after either of these conditions of fracture. Extensive contusion or laceration of the soft parts, in conjunction with comminution of the bones, demands amputation ; or this operation wni, in its turn, be unavoidable after failure of excision. it must be confessed, at least with regard to my own experience, that the results of treatment in these conditions of injury to the elbow- joint are seldom successful as compared with similar treatment for disease affecting this joint. With Fig. 234.* compound fracture, I have seldom Ym. 235.t fsucceeded in preserving the limb; and the failure of any attempt has been owing in this—as in similar injuries of the joints and limbs by direct violence—to the extensive subcutaneous destruction of texture, concealed probably by an almost apparently uninjured state of the integument. Pathological anatomy —as shown by dissection—has cor- rected the shortcomings of clinical observation. 2. Feacttjee of the Shafts of THE Radius and Ulna.—Commonly occurring m the middle (Fig. 234) of the forearm or below (Fig. 235), and rarely above, fractures of the forearm may be limited to either bone alone—ulna or radius, or in- volve both bones. Usually broken transversely or obliquely, and occasionally comminuted, the displace- ment generally is anterior, owing to the greater power \\\\, \\\, \ Fig. 236.t of theflexormuscles; some- times, however, posterior, lateral or angular. (Fig. 234.) Fracture of the radius alone is attended with a tilting forwards of the upper portion of the shaft by the joint action of the biceps and pronator radii teres muscles, while the lower portion is drawn inwards towards the ulna by the supinator longus and pronator quadratus. (Fig. 236.) * St. Bartholomew's IIosp., C. 128. + St. George's Hosp., 1, 92. % Gray.