284 GENERAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. Patients of all ages, even very young infants who are the subjects of hereditary disease, have undergone this course of treatment. In the latter, however, inoculations will frequently not take effect; nor in persons with acquired constitutional syphilis, who, at the same time, are suffering from some acute or debilitating disease. But the latter adverse conditions are temporary, and immunity is generally obtained. Its duration in regard to the local action of the virus is limited, freedom from susceptibility to the production of chancre being gradually lost after the inoculations have been discontinued; but the systemic immunity continues, and frequently throughout the life of the patient. These results have been attested, it is said, by some hundred of cases. It is admitted, however, that the success of syphilization is very much modified by the fact of whether, or not, the patient had previ- ously undergone mercurial treatment. Dr. Boeck alleges that mercury interrupts and retards the natural course of syphilis, and that, in like manner, it interferes with the treatment by continued inoculation,— thus diminishing the curative efficacy of syphilization. It was at this stage of the inquiry, more particularly, that syphiliza- tion was tested at the Lock Hospital, in twenty-seven cases, under Dr. Boeck's immediate supervision. Mr. James R. Lane and Mr. Gascoyen —the surgeons to that Institution—have supplied an elaborate report of these cases; which, while it contributed interesting particulars on points connected with the clinical history of syphilization, and in- directly with the pathology of Syphilis, condemns it as a method of treatment. On this aspect of the question, the report concludes:— " We are entirely in accord as to the practical bearings of Syphiliza- tion, and we are decidedly of opinion that it is not a treatment which can be recommended for adoption. We consider that, even if it could be admitted to possess all the advantages claimed for it by its advo- cates, its superiority over other modes of treatment, or in many instances over no treatment at all, would not sufficiently compensate for its tediousness, its painfulness, and the life-long marking which it entails upon the patient. " If Syphilization could be relied upon, after other treatment had failed, to control the severer forms of the disease, especially in its tertiary stage, or to prevent its hereditary transmission, the benefit derived would, without doubt, more than counterbalance these dis- advantages ; but unfortunately these are precisely the cases in which it has admittedly the least influence." (" Med.-Chir. Trans.," 1867.) CHAPTER VIII. ERYSIPELAS. Erysipelas is a blood-disease, manifested by a diffuse and spreading or serous inflammation of the skin and subcellular texture, possibly also of the mucous membranes; and of an infectious character. The latter element of this definition is disputed, and indeed open to doubt.