SCROFULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP, OR MORBUS COXARIUS. 817 Fig. 432.* bone, and the adjoining portion of the shaft, are not unfi-equently carious; either by an extension of the joint-disease, or as the original seat of caries. The acetahular cavity, also denuded of cartilage, is enlarged in circumference, but shalbw ; the cotyloid ligament and bony rim of this cavity having been destroyed. The round ligament may have disappeared, and the capsular ligament at length giving way, the abscess bursts into the surrounding cellular texture. Thus, the joint is utterly destroyed. Terminations.—(1.) J.«c/M/Zm's rarely takes place, as a mode of repa- ration. (2.) The remnant of the articular end of the femur is drawn up by the action of the muscles into the patulous acetabulum. Thenc^ the femur has even been forced through the thin various bottom of this cavity, and entered the pelvis. (Fig. 432.) (3.) But the ill- fitting, loose articulation, from advanced disease, is mostly liable to dislocation. The femur, drawn upwards and outwards by the glutei muscles, passes over the reduced brim of the acetabular cavity, and slipping on to the dorsum ilii, lodges there. More rarely, the femur is thrust out of the acetabulum forwards, and rests on the ramus of the pubes. Abscess finds its way to the surface by burrowing sinuous tracks, and opens in various situations. The openings relate some- what to the seat of the disease. When it originates in the head of the femur, the sinas extends some way down the thigh, and opens probably near the insertion of the tens(jr vagin£e femoris muscle. Acetabular disease presents a sinus-oponing in the gluteal region, near the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. Matter may also pass down by the rectum, bursting into it, or close to the anus. If the pelvic bones be involved, a sinus-opening is presented in the pubic region, above or below Poupart's ligament; above the ligament, it leads probably to intra-pelvic abscess ; below the ligament, to disease of the rami of the pubis or ischium. Signs.—(1.) Scrofulous disease of the hip-joint approaches and pro- gresses very insidiously. Commencing generally in early life, under the age of puberty, scarcely any pain—but what the mother will call " growing pain "—is complained of in the first instance, or for weeks, possibly months, as the disease slowly progresses. The first perceptible sign is a slight limp in walking; the child shuffling, hobbling, or dragging his leg, step by step. When standing still, the whole weight of the body is thrown on the other limb, to relieve the halting member. This attitude is peculiar; the hip of the sound limb being elevated, gives an obliquity to the pelvis .downwards on the diseased side; the thigh is slightly bent on the pelvis, and the leg on the thigh, the toes touching the ground. The limb may be somewhat abducted and everted, the toes being turned outwards ; in this particular resembling dislocation on the pubes, or fracture of the neck of the femur. But in the first stage of diseased hip-joint, the limb is oppareiitly elongated. * St. EaiUinloniew'fi TIosp. Mus., B. 14. 3 O