544 SPECIAL PATHOLOGY AND SURGERY. internal, saphenous vein on the inner aspect oi the thigh, enters the saphenous opening to join the femoral vein; and some superficial lymphatic vessels also enter this opening to pass through the crural canal to the abdomen, _ Continuing the course of the femoral vessels downwards in the thigh helow the sheath, the vein still lies to the inner side of the artery, hut winding behind it is then found on the outer side, at the upper border of the adductor longns ; passing out of Scarpa's triangle, and -«*ith the artery entering Hunter's canal, the vein is still to the outer side, and it so passes through the opening in the adductor magnus. The anterior crural nerve, under Poupart's ligament, lies on the outer side of the femoral vessels, but not enclosed in their sheath ; being about half an inch distant, and separated by the tendon of the psoas muscle, on the inner side of which is the artery. The nerve lying in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus externally, it appears as a large, white, flat band, which soon divides into a superficial or cutaneous and a deep or muscular part. The superficial part gives off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves of the thigh, and the internal saphenous nerve. The middle cutaneous pierces the fascia about three inches below P'oupart's liga- ment, and dividing into two cutaneous branches which descend on the front of the thigh, it thus loses all relation to the artery. The internal cutaneous inclines obliquely inwards over the femoral artery, and divides into two branches : the anterior, descending on the sartorius muscle to the middle of the thigh, and there piercing the fascia lata; the intex'nal, descending along the inner border of that muscle to pierce the fascia on the inner side of the knee. The internal or long saphenous nerve—the largest of the three superficial branches—descends on the outer side of the femoral artery; entering Hunter's canal under the vertical portion of the sartorius, it lies with the femoral vein still to the outer side of the artery, but somewhat posterior to the vein, and external to the cellular sheath containing it and the artery. At the opening in the adductor magnus, the saphenous nerve leaves the femoral vessels on their becoming popliteal; it is continued beneath the sartorius muscle to the inner side of the knee, there to pierce the fascia between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis muscles. About the middle of the thigh, a communicating branch ci'osses in- wards beneath the sartorius to join an offset of the internal branch of the internal cutaneous, and another from the anterior division of the obturator comes down in front of the abductor brevis to the lower border of the abductor longus. These three offsets here form a sort of plexus, beneath the fascia lata. The deep or muscular part of the anterior crural nerve (see Fig. 164) divides into a brush of branches, which have more or less relation to the artery externally, towards the apex of Scarpa's triangle. Disap- pearing under the sartorius to enter the muscles, they supply that muscle, the rectus femoris, the vastus exteimus, and vastus internus— the branch to this muscle descending near the internal saphenous nerve, which it nearly equals in size; a small branch or two also crosses inwards behind the femoral vessels to the pectineus muscle. Branches of the Femoral Artery.—The external pudic—two branches, an upper and a lower—pass inwards over the pectineus muscle, but under the fascia lata, to the skin of the penis, and the