221 MUSCLES OF THE H.iXD. brevis and the four deeper extensor muscles receive branches from the interosseous nerve. MUSCLES OF TH3 HAND. •Besides the tendons of the long muscles and the lunibricales already described, there are placed in the hand one snperficial mnscle called palmaris brevis, the short muscles of the thumb and little finger, and Fig. ISO. the interossei muscles. Fig. 180.—Muscles axd Te>'dons of the Paljiar Aspect of the Hand. ^ Portions of the tendons of the snperficial flexor have been cut away to show those of the deep flexor and the lunibricales. 1, ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis, cut short ; 2, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, inserted into the pisiform bone ; 3, anterior annular ligament of the carpus ; 4, abductor jjollicis ; 5, opponens jjollicis ; 6, 6, flexor brevis ; 7, adductor poUicis ; 8, abductor minimi digiti ; 9, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 10, lum- bricales, passing to their insertion on the radial side of the four fingers. The palmaris "brevis is a thin flat subcutaneous muscle, which arises from the inner margin of the palmar fascia and annular ligament ; its fibres proceed transversely inwards, and are inserted into the skin along the inner border of the palm. Belatlon.s.—The palmaris brevis crosses the muscles of the little fing-er and covers the ulnar artery and nerve. It is subject to considerable variation in its breadth r>,nd thickness, consisting sometimes of only a few scattered fibres. Fig. 131.—Deep TilrscLES of the Palm o? THE HaXD. i The abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti, together with the anterior annular ligament and the long flexor tendons in the palm have been removed; in the fore-finger the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors remain; in the other fingers the ten- dons of the superficial flexor have been removed. 1, pronator quadratus muscle ; 2, opponens pollicis ; 3, flexor brevis pollicis ; 4, adductor pollicis; 5, opponens minimi digiti; 6, unciform bone; 7, 8, interosseous muscles. Fig. 181. Muscles of the Tnmm—The fleshv mass which forms the thenar eminence, or baU of the thumb, consists of four muscles. The abductor pollicis muscle (abductor brevis polKcis,—Alb.), super- ncial and flat, arises from the annular ligament and from the ridc?e of the OS trapezium, and proceeding outwards and forwards, is inserted