OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE HEAD. 67 tissue in their vicinity. The ethmoidal sinuses consist of several irregular spaces occupying the lateral masses of the ethmoid bone. The anterior open into the infundibulum, the ]Josterior into the superior meatus. ThQ frontal sinuses are placed between the outer and inner tables of the frontal bone over the roof of the nose. They extend out- wards from behind the glabella to a variable distance over the orbit, being separated from each other by a thin bony septum. They open into the middle meatus of the nose through the infandibula. The sphenoidal sinuses occupy the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid bone, being formed in connection with the sphenoidal spongy bones. They are separated by a median septum, and open anteriorly behind and above the superior meatus of the nose. The maxillarij sinus is of an irregular pyramidal form; its apex points to the malar tuberosity ; its inner wall, which separates it from the nasal cavity, is formed by the maxillary, palate, and inferior turbinated bones, and the uncinate process of the ethmoid ; its other sides are formed by the superior maxillary bone, an irregular gap or deficiency being left between the uncinate process and the inferior turbinated bone, by which the sinus opens into the middle meatus. The alveolus of one of the molar teeth generally forms a marked pro- jection in the floor of the sinus, at its outer part. OSSIFICATION OP THE BONES OF THE HEAD. Some of tliese bones originate in cartilage, and others in membrane, or un- chondrified formative tissue. To the first set belong chiefly the bones of the base of the cranium, viz., the occipital, si^henoid, ethmoid, petro-mastoid, and inferior turbinated, together with the small bones of the ear, the styloid process, and hyoid bone.' All the other bones of the cranium and face originate in membrane or formative tissue. The parts of the bones which are median or central—the basi-occipital, basi-sphenoid, pre-sphenoid, and mesethmoid—arise either from one median centre each, or from more numerous centres, which coalesce into one at an early period. The other bones or their parts are all in pairs, although some of them, as the frontal, ex- occipital, ethmo-turbinal, alisphenoid, orbito-sphenoid, and lower jaw finally coalesce with each other or with a median portion. In the tabular bones ossification usually spreads outwards from certain centres, and the marginal portions, in the earlier stages, present more or less the form of radiated fibres or spicula. The sutured edges, and especially the angles of the bones, are incomplete, the bones being united together at their margins by fibrous tissue. The diploe and sinuses are at first absent, some of the latter arising early in life, and others being formed at a comparatively late but variable period. The occipital bone. This bone at birth, and for some time afterwards, con- sists of four separate pieces—a basilar, a tabular, and two condylar parts, united together by intervening cartilage. The lines of junction of the basilar and con- dylar parts pass through the condyles near their anterior extremities ; those of the condylar and tabular pai-ts extend outwards from the posterior margin of the foram.en magnum. The basilar and condylar parts arise each from one osseous nucleus, which appears from the seventh to the eighth week. A few days earlier there appear in the tabular part usually four nr "^I, placed in pairs above and below the occipital protuberance. These nuclei speedily unite to form a single thin tabular mass. Four fissures, however, remain, two median and two lateral i-unning in from the margins of the bone, and marking the limits of the original pieces. These fissures, especially the lateral, sometimes remain visible for several years, simulating fractures. The largest ossa Wormii, when symmetrical, may arise from the persistence of the Mpper and lateral fissm-es. The osseous union of the F 2