229 GLUTEAL MUSCLES. placed two or three synovial burs£e, or a single multilocular bursa of large siz& A bursa is also situated between the muscle and the tendon of the vastus extemu^s and another separates it from the tuber ischii. The great size of the gluteus maximus and the consequent prominence of the buttock, is a characteristic of man as compared with those animals which most nearly approach him in general structure. Varletk-s.—This muscle varies chiefly in the extent of its origin ; it may obtain a high fascial slip from the lumbar aponeurosis, or it may be attached only to the last two sacral vertebra3. It may also be considerably subdivided. Thus it has been seen wholly or partly bilaminar (Tiedemann, Macalister) ; or with a separate muscle, constituting in animals the agitator caudse attached to the coccyx and lowest part of the sacrum (MacaKster). 2, The gluteus medius muscle, covered partly by the gluteus maximus, partly by the fascia lata, arises from the surface of the dorsum ilii above the superior curved line, and in front of the gluteus maximus, from the strong fibres of the fascia lata, covering its outer surface. The muscular fibres converge as they descend, the anterior fibres passing obliquely backwards, the posterior fibres obliquely forwards, and terminate in a fan-shaped tendon, which is inserted into an oblique line directed downwards and forwards on the outer surface of the great trochanter. The tendon is separated by a smaP bursa from the upper part of the trochanter. Relations.—Between this muscle and the gluteus minimus are the gluteal nerve and deep branches of the gluteal artery. At its anterior and inferior border its fibres are parallel to and united with those of the gluteus minimus. This border also is in contact with the tensor vaginse femoris. The posterior border is in contact with the pyrif ormis. being separated by the gluteal vessels and nerves. Varieties.—The gluteus medius has been found bilaminar by Henle. It may be united posteriorly by a tendinous slip to the tendon of the p;)Tif ormis, or the two tendons may be separated by a bursa (the bursa of Loder). This last condition occurs once in every fifteen subjects (Macalister). Fig. 185.—Dee? Muscles of the Hip on THE Left side, rp.oii behind. \ The gluteus maximus, and the muscles of the thigh have been removed. 1, gluteus medius; 2, i)yriformis ; 3, gemellus su- perior ; 4, gemellus inferior ; 5, obturator internus, seen partially within the pelvis, antl, after issuing by the lesser sciatic notch, between the gemelii muscles; (I, quadratus femoris ; 7, tendon of the obturator ex- ternus between the gemellus inferior and quadratus. 3 The gluteiis minimiig, covered by the preceding muscle, arises from the whole space on the dorsum ilii between the superior and inferior curved lines. The fibres, converg- ing as they descend, terminate in an aponeurotic tendon on the outer surface of the muscle, which be- coming narrowed is inserted into an impression on the anterior border of the great trochanter. Tlio tendon is bound- down to the promuience of the trochanter by a strong fibrous band which joins Fig. 185.