OSSIFICATION OF SHOULDER BOXES. 9& more compressed antcro-posteriorly, are divided by a shallow groove into two condyies. Those of the middle roiv Vive four in number. Smaller than those of the preceding set, they resemble them in form, with this difference, that their proximal extremities present, on the articular surface a slight middle elevation and two lateral depressions, adapted to articulate with the condyles of the first phalanges. The terminal or ungual phalanges, five in number, have proximal extremities similar to those of the middle row, but with a rough depression in fi'ont, v/here the flexor tendons are inserted. They taper towards their somewhat flattened and expanded free extremities, which are rough and raised round the margins and upon the palmar aspect in the ungaal process. Sesamoid bones.—A pair of sesamoid bones is placed in the palmar wall of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; and similar nodules, single or double, are sometimes found in the corre- sponding joint of one or more of the other fingers, most frequently of the index and little fingers. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OP THE UPPER LIMB With the exception of the clavicle, all the bones of the upper limb begin to ossify from cartilage. The scapula is ossified from a single osseous nucleus for the body, and addi- tional centres for the coracoid process, acromion, base, and lower angle. The Fig. SI. 1 year. 15 or 16 years. 17 or IS years. 22 years. Fig. SI.—Ossification of the Scapula (E. Qiiain). A, about one year. 1, shows the large spreading ossification, from the primary centre. 2, the commencing nucleus in tlie coracoid process. B, about fifteen or sixteen years. Tlie coracoid process (represented as too little ossified in the figure) is now partially united at its base ; a nucleus, 3, has appeared in the acromion, and another, 4, at the lower angle. 0, male scapula at seventeen or eighteen years ; a second point, 5, has appeared in the acromion, and ossification has advanced into the ridge of the base, G. D, the scapula of a man of about tAventy-two years of age ; the acromion and tlie ridge of the base are still separate. B, 0, and D, are about the fourth of the natural si:^e.