S23 GEXEHAL DISTRIBUTION. grouped together in one foramen. The numerous small olfactory nerves descend into the nose through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; the optic nerve pierces the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone; the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, with the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, pass through the sphenoidal fissure ; the superior maxillary and inferior maxillary divisions of the fifth pass respectively through the foramen rotundum and foramen ovale of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the facial and auditory nerves pierce the petrous bone ; the glossopharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory nerves descend in separate canals of the dura mater through the anterior part of the jugu- lar foramen between the petrous and occipital bones ; and the hypoglossal nerve passes tlirough the anterior condylar foramen of the occipital bone. General distribution.—The greater number of the cranial nerves are entirely confined in their distribution within the limits of the head ; as in the case of the first six pairs and the auditory nerve. Of these, the olfactory, optic, and auditory are restricted to their respective organs of sense : while the third, fourth, and sixth are exclusively motor nerves in connection with the external and internal muscles of the eyeball and the elevator of the upper eyelid. In the remaining nerve, the fifth or trifacial, all the fibres derived from the greater root, and connected with the Gasserian ganglion, are entirely sensory in their function, and constitute the whole of the first and second and the greater part of the third division of the nerve : but the last of these divisions has associated with it the fibres of the lesser or motor root, so as to become in some degree a compound nerve. As a nerve of sensation the trifacial occupies in its distribution the greater part of the head super- ficially and deeply, excepting the interior of the cranium and that part of the scalp which is situated in the region behind a perpendicular line passing through the external auditoiy meatus. The muscular distri- bution of the inferior division of the fifth nerve is chiefly to the muscles of mastication. Of the remaining nerves, the facial and hypoglossal, both exclusively motor in function, are almost entirely cephalic in their distribution ; the facial nerve giving fibres to all tlie superficial and a few of the deeper muscles of the head and face; and the ninth or hypoglossal supplying the muscles of the tongue. Of the facial, howevei', a small branch joins one of the cervical nerves in the platysma myoides ; and of the ninth, the descending branch supplies in part the muscles of the neck w^hich depress the hyoid bone and larynx. Of the three parts of the eighth pair, ranked as cranial nerves in consequence of their passmg through one of the foramina of the cranium, two, the pneumogastric and spinal accessory, have only a very limited distribution in the head, and furnish nerves in much greater proportion to organs situated in the neck and thorax. The first of these, after giving a small branch to the ear-passages, and supplying nerves to the larynx and pharynx, the trachea, gullet, the lungs and heart, extends into the abdominal cavity as the principal nerve of the stomach. The other, the spinal accessory, which is partially united with the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric near their origin and thus furnishes some of their motor fibres, is entirely a motor nerve, and is distributed in the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is more strictly confined to the head, supplying branches to the tongue, pharynx, and part of the ear passages.