THE THOEACIC AOETA. 422 surface of the external intercostal muscle, and in the back of the space is separated from the pleura by a fascia only, but further outwards it lies between the two layers of intercostal muscles. Extending forwards in contact with the rib above, it finally anastomoses with one of the anterior intercostal branches derived from the internal mammary artery, and with the thoracic branches of the axillary artery. The first of the aortic intercostal arteries has an anastomosis with the superior intercostal proceeding from the subclavian artery ; and the last three are prolonged into the abdominal muscles, where they communicate with the epigastric artery in front, with the phrenic arteries at the side, and with the lumbar branches of the abdominal aorta lower down. Each intercostal artery is accompanied, as it runs outwards between the ribs, by a corresponding vein, and by one of the dorsal nerves ; the Tein usually being uppermost, and the artery next below it. Brandies.—(a) The ^^osterio?' or dorsal hiandh of each intercostal artery passes "backwards to the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, along with the posterior branch of the corresponding spinal nerve ; and, having furnished an offset to the spinal canal, reaches the muscles of the back, and divides into an internal and an external branch. The internal branch is directed towards the spinous processes, on or through the multifidus spinse, and ramifies in the muscles and the skin. The external branch turns outwards under the longissimus dorsi, and is distributed between that muscle and the sacro-lumbalis ; some twigs reach the superficial muscles and the integuments. The sjrinal branches of the aortic intercostal arteries are distributed partly to the cord and its membranes, and partly to the bones, in the same manner as the spinal branches of the lumbar arteries, to the description of which the reader is referred. {V) The collateral intcrcasial branch, long and slender, arises near the place where the main trunk comes in contact v/ith the upper rib of the space, and inclining downwards approaches the border of the lower rib, supplying the bone and the intercostal muscles, and anastomosing in front with an anterior inter- costal branch of the internal mammary artery. There are thus in each inter- costal space two terminal branches of the intercostal arteries communicating with the branches of the internal mammary. Varieties.—The number of the intercostal arteries is subject to much varia- tion : the third, fourth, and fifth vessels may be entirely absent upon one side, the corresponding spaces being supplied from neighbouring arteries. Two arteries frequently arise from the aorta by a single stem. In this way the firsfc lumbar artery is sometimes conjoined with the twelfth intercostal (Henle). ABDOMIITAL AOIiTA. The aorta, after having passed the diaphragm, is thus named. It commences on the front of the last dorsal vertebra, and terminates Fig. 275.—YiE'^v OF the Abdominal Aorta and its Principal Branches (froia Tiedemann), ^ a, ensiform portion of the sternum ; h, vena cava inferior passing through the tendoQ of tlie diaphragm ; c, the ossophagus passing through the muscular portion ; d and e, ten- dinous parts of the right and left crura ; /, /', the right and left kidneys with their supra- renal bodies ; rf, the ureters ; h, the upper part of the urinary bladder ; i, i, the right and left vasa deferentia passing up from the bladder to the internal inguinal apertures ; 1c, the rectum, divided and tied near its upper part; 1, 1, the abdominal aorta ; 1', the middle sacral artery ; 2, 2', the right, 3, 3', the left inferior phrenic arteries, represented as arising by a short common stem from the front of the aorta immediately below the meeting of the crura of the diaphragm ; 4, the trunk of the coeliac axis ; 5, the superior mesenteric artery ; 6, 6, the renal arteries ; 6', 6', the suprarenal arteries arising partly