MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. 312 consists of two sets of movements, viz., those of inspiration and of expiration, in which air is successively drawn into the lungs and expelled from them by the alternate increase and diminution of the thoracic cavity. The changes in the capacity of the thorax are effected by the expansion and contraction of its lateral walls, called costal respiration, and by the depression and elevation of the floor of the cavity, through contraction and relaxation of the diaphragm, called abdominal resjpiratmi. These two movements are normally combined in the act of respira- tion, but in different circumstances one of them is resorted to more than another. Thus, abdominal respiration is most employed in the male, costal respiration most in the female. Insjnration.—The study of the movements of the thoracic walls in respiration presents considerable difl&culty from the complexity of these movements, and from the impossibility of perfectly imitating in the dead body the mechanical conditions under which they occur in life. On the prepared skeleton, by raising and depressing the sternum the ribs may be moved upwards and downwards nearly parallel to one another ; the first rib moving as freely as the others. But during life several causes combine to make the first rib more fixed than those which follow : as for example, the weight of the upper extremity, and the strain of the intercostal muscles and ribs beneath. The movements of the thoracic walls in respiration are as follows : 1st. The antero-posterior diameter is increased by a forward movement of the sternum with the attached ribs and cartilages ; the lower end of the sternum is raised and advanced, while the upper end, which in easy respiration is at rest, or nearly so, is only raised in full inspiration. 2nd. The lateral diameter of the thorax is increased by the elevation and the rotation of the ribs ; the first of these movements bringing larger costal arches to a level occupied in expiration by smaller arches above them ; and the second, by the rotation of the ribs round an axis extending from their vertebral extremities to the sternum, which everts the lower edgje of the ribs, and increases the width of their arch outwards. 3rd. The capacity of the thorax, transversely and antero-posteriorly, is increased by the elastic bending of the ribs, as well as the opening of the angle between the ribs and their cartilages, produced by the resistance of the sternum and weight of the limbs to the forward and upward motion of the extremities of the cartilages, and by the inclination backwards given to the middle ribs in their upward movement by the oblique direction of the plane of the costo-transverse articular surfaces. 4th. The vertical diameter of the thoracic cavity is increased by the descent of the platfoi-m of the dia- phragm forming its floor; but as any considerable elevation of the ribs would tend to diminish the capacity of the thorax in inspiration, the lowest ribs are drawn backwards and outwards rather than raised. Lastly, it may be re- marked, that extension of the vertebral column is an important agent in respira- tion, for when the column is bent forwards, the ribs are pressed together in the concavity of the curve, and, conversely, when the column is extended the ribs are separated. Action of the Intercostal Muscles.—The manner in which these muscles act has been a subject of controversy from an early time, and is not yet thoroughly deter- mined. Among those who look upon the intercostal muscles as active in respira- tion, all are agreed that the external muscles are elevators of the ribs, and therefore muscles of inspiration. According to one view, defended by Haller, the external and internal layers have a common action, the decussating fibres acting in the direction of the diagonal between them ; while according to another view, that of Hamberger, the external intercostal muscles are admitted to be elevators, but the whole internal are held to be depressors of the ribs. More recently these views have been modified by Hutchinson to the extent of admitting that the external intercostal muscles, and the parts of the internal intercostals placed between the costal cartilages, elevate the ribs, and that the lateral portions of the internal intercostals act as depressors. This view is illustrated mechanically, and supposed by some to be demonstrated, by means of a mechanism of rods and elastic bands imitating the conditions of the ribs. But the ribs differ from such rods in respect that they are not straight or rigid bars, and are not free at either end, but are deeply curved, and have the greatest extent of