FEOXTAL BONE. 35 lonscitudinal sinus ; and a depression at the posterior inferior an^vle forms a small part of the groove of the lateral sinus. Near the upper Pig. 30.—The Parietal Bone PEOM THE Inside. (A.T.) | 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, & 8, iudicate the same parts as in the last figure : between 1 fc 2 the half groove of the su- perior longitudinal sinus ; 3', groove of the lateral sinus ; 7, the ramified grooves of the meningeal vessels ; above x this groove is converted into a canal; 9, the irregular pits for the glandulse Pacchionii. border there are in most skulls, but particularly in those of old persons, small irregular pits, Jovece^ glandulares, lodg- ing the so-named gland- iila3 Pacchionii. Borders. —The ante- lior, superior, and pos- terior borders are deeply serrated. The inferior border presents in the greater pari of its extent a sharp or squamous edge, with a slightly fluted surface directed outwards and overlapped at its anterior extremity by the great wing of the sphenoid, and behind that by the squamous part of the temporal bone; its posterior part is serrated, and articu- lates with the mastoid portion of the temporal. The anterior Ijorder is slightly overlapped by the frontal bone above, but overlaps the edge of that bone interiorly, THE FRONTAIj BONE The frontal "bone, arching upwards and backwards from above the orbits, forms the fore part of the cranium. It likewise presents interiorly two thin horizontal lamin?3, the orbital ]jJates, which form the roofs of the orbits and are separated by a mesial excavation, the incisura efMioidalis. The frontal is articulated with twelve bones, viz.^ posteriorly with the parietals and sphenoid; outside the orbits with the malars ; and between the orbits, from before backwards, with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, and ethmoid bones. Anterior surface.—The part forming the greatest convexity of the forehead on each side is called the frontal eminence. It is separated by a slight depression below from the siqmrAUary ridge, a curved elevation of varying prominence immediately above the margin of the orbit. Between the superciliary ridges is the surface cdXl^d giahella. The margin of the orbit, the ordital arch, is most defined towards its outer part ; it presents towards its inner third the supraordital notch, some- times converted into a foramen, which transmits the supraorbital nerve and artery. The extremities of the orbital arch point downwards, and Fig. 30. 9