BOXES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 118 whole length, the cuboid bone, and the fourth and fifth toes, a great part of whicli rests upon the ground in standing. Besides bein^ arched longitudinally, the foot presents likewise a transverse arch formed behind by the cuboid and three cuneiform bones, and in front by the metatarsal bones. OSSIFICATION OF THE BONES OF THE PELVIS AND LOWER LIMB. Os innominatum.—The innominate bone is formed from the three principal pieces previously mentioned, viz., the ilium, ischium, and os pubis, and from various others of an epiphysial nature. OssiJacation commences in the cartilage ©f the ilium a little later than in other large bones, bone beginning to be depo- sited above the sciatic notch in the 8th or 9th week. This is followed by similar deposits in the thick part of the ischium below the acetabulum in the 3rd month, and in the ascending ramus of the pubis in the 4th or oth month. At Fig. 105. D Fig. 105.—OssiPiCATiON OP THE Os Inxominatum (K,. Quain). ■ A, the condition of the bone at birth. Bone has spread from three nuclei into the ilium, ischium, and pubis, which meet in the cartilage of the acetabulum. B, from a child under six years of age. The rami of the ischium and pubis are farther ossified, but still separate. C, a bone of two or three years later, in which the rami are united. D, the bone of the right side from a person of about twenty years. Union has taken place in the acetabulum, and the additional epiphyses are seen in the crest of the ilium, the anterior inferior spine, the ischial tuberosity, and the margin of the symphysis pubis. In A, B and C, 1, ilium ; 2, ischium ; 3, pubis ; below D, 4, separated Y-shaped piece formed of several fragments v/hich begin to ossify about the 14th year, and often unite into this form before the completion of the acetabulum ; 5, epiphysis of the crest ; 6, that of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 7, that of the symphysis pubis ; 8, that of the anterior inferior spine of the ilium. birth the greater part of the acetabulum, the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium, the body and descending ramus of the pubis are still cartilaginous ; ossification, however, from the three primary centres has extended into the margin of the acetabulum. In the 7th or 8th year the rami of the ischium and pubis become completely united by bone. The parts which meet in the acetabulum are still separated by a tri-radiate strip of cartilage, which from its shape has been called the Y cartilage. This cartilage begins to be ossified from one or more centres about the age of puberty, and the intermediate bone or epiphysis so form^ed is united to the neighbouring parts about the 17th or 18th year. Epiphyses are likewise formed in the cartilage of the crest of the