AETERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 404 the radial artery ; sometimes the ulnar is the branch given off; that is to say, a branch corresponding- to the ulnar in its distribution below the middle of the fore-arm separates from a trunk which afterwards divides into the normal radial artery and the interosseous of the fore-arm, which last is normally derived from the ulnar artery. Earely the interosseous of the fore-arm, or a vas al)errans, is the branch given off. In one instance found in the dissecting room of Glasgow University, the posterior interosseous artery of the fore-arm was thus given off. In all cases of the high origin of one or other of the arteries of the fore-ann, the extent in which the two vessels thus formed run separately must vary accord- ing to the height at which the main artery divides. The point of division in the entire number of cases, without reference to the particular branch given off, is most frequently in the upper, less so in the lower, and least so in the middle third of the arm. But the early division of the main artery of the upper limb may, as mentioned in connection with the varieties of the axillary artery, take place within the axilla, in which case it follows that the brachial portion of the vessel is replaced, throughout its whole extent, by two separate trunks. In 94 cases out of 481 observed by E, Quain, or about one in five, there were two arteries instead of one in some part of the arm. The 2>osition of the two aj'teries, in these cases, is also of much surgical interest. Usually they are close together, and occupy the ordinary position of the brachial artery ; but it has been noticed that the radial artery, when thus given off in the arm, often arises from the inner side of the brachial, then runs parallel with the larger vessel (the brachial or ulnar-interosseous), and crosses over it, some- times suddenly, opposite the bend of the elbow, still covered by the fascia. It has also been found, in a considerable number of instances, to perforate the fascia, and run immediately under the skin, near the bend of the elbow. When the ulnar is the branch given off high from the brachial, it often inclines from the position of the brachial, at the lower part of the arm, towards the inner condyle of the humerus. This vessel generally lies beneath the fascia as it des inds, and superficial to the flexor muscles. It is occasionally placed between theconteguments and the fascia ; and in a single instance was found beneath the muscles. In one instance occurring in the dissecting-room of the Glasgow University, the ulnar artery given off from the humeral at the middle of the arm was observed to descend superficially behind the inner condyle. The interosseous, after arising from the axillary or brachial artery, is commonly situated behind the main artery, and, on reaching the bend of the elbow, passes deeply between the muscles, to assume its usual position in the fore- arm. Lastly, when the radial has arisen high in the arm, the residuary portion of the brachial (idnar-interosseoiis) has occasionally been observed descending, accom- panied by the median nerve, along the intermuscular septum towards the inner condyle of the humerus, as far as the origin of the pronator teres (which in the case recorded was found broader than usual), whence it turned forwards under cover of the muscle, to gain the usual position at the middle of the bend of the elbow. The two arteries taking the place of the brachial are in some instances con- nected near the bend of the arm by an intervening trunk, which proceeds from the larger (or ulnar-interosseous) artery to the radial or the radial recurrent, and varies somewhat in its size, form, and course. More rarely the two unusual arteries are actually re-united. The aberrant arteries, " vasa abeiTantia," alluded to above, are long slender vessels, which arise either from the brachial or the axillary artery, and end by joining one of the arteries of the fore-arm, or one of their branches. In eight cases out of nine, observed by Quain, this unusual vessel joined the radial; in the remaining case it joined the radial recuri'ent, which arose irregularly from the ulnar artery. Very rarely the aberrant vessel joins the ulnar. This peculiarity may be regarded, perhaps, as an approach to that condition in which there is division of the brachial artery and subsequent connection of its two parts by an intervening branch. In most cases of the high division of the brachial arteries the condition of the