17 COCCYGEAL YEETEBRJE. The lower end or apex, formed by the small inferior sm-face of the body of the fifth sacral vertebra, is transversely oval, and articulates with the coccyx. The sacral canal is three-sided, curved with the bone, and gradually narrowed as it descends. It opens below on the posterior surface of the bone between the sacral cornua where the laminse of the last sacral vertebrse are imperfect. From this canal there pass outwards in the substance of the bone four pairs of intervertebral foramina, closed externally by the lateral masses, but opening on the surface by the anterior and posterior sacral foramina. B\ffcrences in flie sexes.—The sacrum of the female is broader in proportion to its length than that of the male; it is also flatter, and usually inclines backwards from the direction of the lumbar vertebr83 to a greater extent than in the male. But the curvature varies considerably in different skeletons. Varieties.—The sacrum not mifrequently consists of six vertebra, and some- times, though rarely, of only four. Occasionally the bodies of the first and second vertebra are not united, though complete union has taken place in every other part, or the first vertebra may present on one side the usual sacral form, while on the other it has the appearance of a lumbar vertebra, and is not united to the next (see fig. 21, 11, Z'). a peculiarity connected with the oblique form of pelvis. Instances also occur, in which it presents, on both sides, characters intermediate betv/een those of sacral and lumbar vertebrae. The lower end of the sacral canal may be open to a greater extent than usual; it has even been found open throughout. Coccygeal vertebrss, or coccyx.—These are very rudimentary ver- tebrae, commonly four, sometimes five, seldom only three in number. The first of the series is considerably broader than the others. It pre- sents superiorly on the part corresponding to the body an oval concave surface which articulates with the lower end of the sacrum; two small processes, termed cornua, which project upwards from its posterior margin, connected by ligaments with the sacral cornua; and a short Fig. 14.—Four Coccygeal Vertebrae, seen from before.—From a Male Subject of iMiddle Age (A. T). |. The upper piece is separate from the second ; the three lower are united together in one piece, and separated only by grooves. 1 above the middle or body of the first coccygeal vertebra ; 1' below the fourth piece ; 6, tlie transverse portion ; 7, the superior articulat- ing tubercle. process, which projects from each side, and usually forms, with the inferior lateral angle of the sacrum, a notch for the fifth sacral nerve, but in some cases unites with that bone to form a fifth sacral foramen. The remaining three coccygeal vertebrae are much smaller than the first, and correspond solely to vertebral bodies. When separate, the second piece presents an upper and lower flattened surface. The third and fourth pieces are mere rounded nodules. In middle life, the first piece is usually separate, while the three lower pieces are united into one, the original separation being indicated by transverse grooves. In advanced life, the coccygeal vertebrae, having been previously joined into one bone, become also united to the sacrum. This union occurs at an earlier age and more frequently in the male than in the female, but it is subject to much variation. VOL. I. 0