VOMER. MALAE BONE. 51 maxillary fossa into the nasal cavity, and transmits the internal nerves from Meckel's ganglion and the nasal branch of the internal maxillary artery. THE VOMEB. The vomer is a thin mesial bone, irregularly quadrilateral, and placed vertically between the nasal fossse. It articulates with the sphenoid, ethmoid, palate, and maxillary bones, and with the septal cartilage of the nose. It usually becomes united by anchylosis, at an early age, to other bones. The lower and back part of the vomer forms a thin mesial plaU, while the upper and anterior part consists of two aim, rising on each side of a mesial groove, in which lies the septal cartilage of the nose. The alee posteriorly are thick and expanded, and form the bifid posterior extremity of the bone, which rests beneath the sphenoid. The superior border of each ala articulates edge to edge with the lamella projecting inwards at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, and Fig. 42.—The Vomer (A. T.) | A, from the right side ; B, from above. 1, 1', the upper everted edges, or alse on each side of the hollow which receives the rostrum of the sphenoid ; 2, the anterior or ethmoid border, grooved to receive the septal cartilage of the nose, and prolonged at x into a process which rests upon the nasal crest; 3, the pos- terior or free border ; 4, the inferior or maxil- lary and palatine border, the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, while the cavity between the alte receives the rostrum of the sphenoid ; the anterior border, sloping downwards and ^' forwards, in contact with the septal cartilage, is free in the inferior part, and is united superiorly by anchylosis on one or both sides with the central plate of the ethmoid. The anterior extremity of the vomer fonns a short vertical plate which fits in behind the nasal crest of the maxil- laries, and from the upper end of which a process projects forwards in the groove of the crest, while from its lower end a point projects downwards between the incisor fora- mina. The inferior border articulates with the ridge or crest which rises from the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones. The posterior border, thin, smooth, and unattached, separates the posterior nares. THE MALAR BONE. The malar bone forms the most prominent part of the cheek, and divides the orbit from the temporal fossa. It articulates by a broad serrated surface near its anterior inferior angle with the malar process of the superior maxillary bone, by a slender posterior process with the zygoma, by a superior process with the frontal, and, continuously with that, by the margin of its deep plate with the great wing of the sphe- noid bone. Between its sphenoidal and maxillary articulations a small portion of free margin generally intervenes, which closes the anterior E 2