604 THE LUMBAR NERVES. Varieties.— Occasioiml nifanrons iiorve.—In some instances the communicat- ing branch described is larg-er than usual, and descends along the posterior border of the sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it perforates the fascia, com- municates with the internal saphenous nerve, and extends down the inner side of the limb, supplying the skin as low as the middle of the leg. When this cutaneous branch of the obturator nerve is present, tile internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve is small, the size of the two nerves bearing an inverse proportion to each other. Accessory obturator ncrcc.—The accessory obturator nerve, a small and incon- stant nerve, arising from the obturator nerve near its upper end, or separately from the same nerves of the plexus, descends along the inner border of the psoas muscle, over the pubic bone, and, passing behind the pectineus muscle, ends by dividing into several branches. Of these one joins the anterior branch of the obturator nerve ; another penetrates the pectineus on the under surface ; whilst a third enters the hip-joint with the articular artery. This nerve is sometimes smaller than usual, and ends in filaments which perfo- rate the capsule of the Iiip-joint. "When it is altogether wanting, the hip-joint receives branches from the obturator nerve. SuMMAEY. — The obturator nerve and accessory obturator give branches to the hip and knee joints, also to the adductor muscles of the thigh, and, in some cases, to the pectineus. Occasionally a cutaneous branch descends to the inner side of the thigh, and to the inner and upper part of the leg. Anterior crural nerve. This nerve is the largest branch of the lumbar plexus, and is de- ri^ed principally from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, but in part also from the second. Emerging from the outer border of the psoas muscle, near its lower part, it descends into the thigh in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and, therefore, to the outside of the femoral blood-vessels. It now becomes flattened out and divides into two parts, one of which is cutaneous, while the other is distributed to muscles. Branches of the trunk.—The branches given from the anterior crural nerve within the abdomen are few and of small size. (r/) The iUncus receives three or four small branches, which are directed out- wards from the nerve to the fore part of the muscle. (h) The nerve of the femoral a rterij is a small branch which divides into numerous filaments upon the upper part of that vessel. It sometimes arises lower do^^oi than usual in the thigh. It may, on the other hand, be found to take origin above the ordinary position ; and in this case it proceeds from the middle cutaneous nerve, when that branch springs from or near the lumbar plexus. In either case its ultimate distributi-on is the same as that already described. Terminal branches.—From the principal or terminal divisions of the nerve the remaining branches take their rise as follows. From the superficial division cutaneous branches are given to the fore X3art of the thigh, and to the inner side of the leg. They are the middle and internal cutaneous nerves, and the internal saphenous nerve. One of the muscles, the sartorius, receives its nerves from this group. The deep branches supply the muscles on the fore part of the thigh, and also the pectineus muscle. The branch to the pectineus, however, sometimes arises from the superficial part of the trunk. A. Muscular branches.—The branch to the j)ectmens muscle crosses inwards behind the femoral vessels, and enters the muscle on the anterior aspect.