MIDDLE AND LOWEE, CEEYICAL GaIn^GLIA. 6SS On the left side, the middle cardiac nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, and joins the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. TMien the middle cervical ganglion is small, the middle cardiac nerve may be found to be an offset of the inter-ganglionic cord. LOWER CERVICAL GANGLION. The lower or third cervical ganglion is irregular in shape, usually somewhat flattened and round or semilunar, and is frequently united in part to the first thoracic ganglion. Placed in a hollow between the transverse process of the last cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, it is concealed by the vertebral artery. It is connected by short communicating cords with the two lowest cervical nerves. Numerous branches are given oflP from it, among which the largest is the lower cardiac nerve. The lower cardiac nerve, issuing from the third cervical ganglion or from the first thoracic, inclines inwards on the right side, behind the subclavian artery, and terminates in the cardiac plexus behind the arch of the aorta. It communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal nerves behind the subclavian artery. On the left side, the lower cardiac often becomes blended with the middle cardiac nerve, and the cord resulting from their union terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. Branches to Mocd-vessels.—From the lowest cervical and first dorsal ganglia a few slender branches ascend along the vertebral artery in its osseous canal, forming a plexus round the vessel by their inter- communications, and supplying it with off'sets. This plexus is connected with the cervical spinal nerves as far upwards as the fourth. One or two branches frequently pass from the lower cervical ganglion to the first dorsal ganglion in front of the subclavian artery, forming loops round the vessel (ansas Yieussenii), and supplying it with small ofisets. THOHACIC PAKT OF THE GANGLIATED CORD. In the thorax the gangliated cord is placed towards the side of the spinal column, in a line passing over the heads of the ribs. It is covered by the pleura, and crosses the intercostal blood-vessels. Opposite the head of each rib the cord usually presents a ganglion, so that there are commonly twelve of these ; but, from the occasional coalescence of two, the number varies slightly. The first ganglion when distinct is larger than the rest, and is of an elongated form ; but it is often blended with the lower cervical ganglion. The rest are small, generally oval, but very various in form. Connection with the spinal nerves.—The branches of connection be- tween the spinal nerves and the ganglia of the sympathetic are usually two in number for each ganglion ; one of these generally resembling the spinal nerve in structure, the other more similar to the sympathetio nerve. BEANCHES OF THE GLNaLIA. The branches furnished by the first five or six gangaa are small, and are distributed in a great measure to the thoracic aorta, the vertebra3.