122 MOHPHOLOGY OF THE EO^^ES OF THE LIMBS. in the 2iid year. The anterior tuberosity is occasionally formed from a separate centre. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite in the 18th or 19th year, the upper epiphysis and shaft unite in the 21st or 22nd year. In the fibula the centre for the shaft appears rather later than in the tibia ; that for the lower extremity appears in the 2nd year, and that for the upper, unlike that of the tibia, not till the 3rd or 4th year. The lower epiphysis and shaft unite about the 21st year, the upper epiphysis and shaft unite about the 24th year. The tarsal hones are ossified in cartilage each from a single nucleus, with the exception of the os calcis, which in addition to its proper osseous centre, has an epiphysis upon the upper part of its posterior extremity. The principal nucleus of the OS calcis appears in the 6th month of foetal life ; its epiphysis begins to be ossified in the 10th yea]% and is united to the tuberosity in the 15th or 16th year. The nucleus of the astragalus appears in the 7th month ; that of the cuboid at bii-tli ; that of the external cuneiform in the 1st year ; that of the internal cuneiform in the ord year ; that of the middle cuneiform in the 4th year ; and that of the scaphoid in the 4th or .5th year. The 'metatarsal hones and jyhalanr/es agree respectively with the corresponding bones in the hand, in the mode of their ossification. Each bone is formed from a principal piece and one epiphysis ; and while in the four outer metatarsal bones the epiphysis is at the distal extremity, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe and in the phalanges it is placed at the proximal extremity. In the fii'st meta- tarsal bone there is also to be observed, as in the first metacarpal (see ossification of that bone), a tendency to the formation of a second or distal epiphysis. (A. Thomson.) In the metatarsal bones the nuclei of the shafts appear in the 8th or 9th week. The epiphyses appear from the 3rd to the 8th year, and unite with the shafts from the 18th to the 20th year. The nuclei of the shafts of the phalanges appear in the 9th or 10th week. The epiphyses appear from the 8th to the 10th year, and unite with the shafts from the 19th to the 21st year. MORPHOLOCJY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. Relation to the Axial Skeleton. —Anatomists have generally agreed to. look upon the relation which the bones of the limbs bear to the rest of the skeleton as that of appendages to the trunk, hence their distinction as api)end\cular parts of the axial skeleton ; and most are also disposed to regard these appendages as similar radiations or extensions from one or more of the vertebral segments in two determinate situations of the trunk. But opinions are still divided as to the typical number of the vertebral somatomes which are involved, and as to the exact nature of the pai-ts which form the radiations. The existence in both of a supporting arch in relations somewhat resembling those of pleurapophyses or ribs, and the division of this arch at the joints of the limbs (shoulder and hip joints) into an upper or dorsal and a lower or ventral section is easily recognised; the dorsal being firmly attached to the side of the sacrum in the lower limb, while in the upper, the ventral part of the arch abuts on the sternum. But it does not appear to be yet determined, even in the case of the pelvic arch, w^hat is the exact nature of the lateral mass of the sacrum, and in both limbs it is still doubtful what is the precise homological relation of the arch to the vertebrse. The fact, however, that a quinquifid division of the peripheral parts of both limbs is constant in man and a certain number of animals, and that in no animals above fishes is there a greater number of elements than five, while in many animals some of the elements may be absent or abortive, together with the remarkably regular passage of a certain number of spinal nerves from the trunk to the limb, of which five are of considerable size in man and those animals possessing the limb elements complete, appears favourable to the view that both limbs have prolonged into them the elements of five vertebral segments, and it is generally held that these elements follow each other in a similar order in the two limbs from the cephalic to the caudal part of the vertebral axis, so that the poUex and radial elements occupy the cephalic side of the upper, while the hallux and tibia take the same place in the lower limb. (See Ov/en On the Nature of Limbs," Goodsir " On. the Morj^hological Constitution of Limbs," in Edin. New Philos. Journ., 1857.)