THE TARSUS—ASTRAGALUS. 115 tali, ib gives attachment to the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The inferior surface, projecting in a rough anterior tiilercle, gives attach- ment to the calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. The external surface is sub- cutaneous, and on the whole smooth, but presents in its fore-parfc a slight ridge, and below it, superficial grooves traversed by the tendons of the peronei muscles. The astragalus, or talus, irregular in form, receives the weight of the body from the leg. It articulates with the tibia and fibula above, the OS calcis below, and the scaphoid in front. Its longest axis is directed forwards and inwards. Its convex anterior extremity is called the head, and the circular groove behind it the neclc. The superior articular sur- Fig. 104.—Right Foot viewed from below, snowiNa Fig. 104. THE Plantah Aspect. (A. T.) ^ The indications are the same as in the preceding figure ; the middle and external cuneiform bones are not lettered ; the sesamoid bones are not represented ; they will be seen in the view of the articulations of the foot. face, placed behind the neck, consists of a mid- dle and two lateral parts. The middle part, looking upwards to the tibia, is convex from before backwards, broader in front than behind, with its outer^margin higher and longer than the inner, and curved, while the inner is straight. The inner lateral part is narrow, and articulates with the internal malleolus ; the outer lateral part, much deeper, articulates with the external malleolus. Interiorly, there are two smooth sur- faces, which articulate with the calcaneum. The posterior of these, the larger, concave from within outwards and forwards, is separated by a rough depression for the interosseous liga- /. ment from the flat anterior surface, which rests on the sustentaculum tali. The anterior margin of this surface is continuous with the rounded i surface of the head, which articulates with the scaplioid bone. The posterior border of the bone lies behind the sustentaculum tali, and like that process, is grooved by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The scaphoid or navicular bone is placed at the inner side of the foot between the astragalus and cuneiform bones. It is short from behind forwards, and broad from side to side. It presents posteriorly an articular concavity for the head of the astragalus, and anteriorly a convex surface divided by two lines converging below, into three facets which articulate respectively with the three cuneiform bones. On its outer side, in some instances, is a small smooth surface, by which it is articulated to the cuboid bone. Its superior and inferior surfaces are rough, and on its inner border, directed downwards, is a prominent tiiberde to which the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle is attached. _ The cuneiform, or wedge-shaped bones, three in number, are dis- tinguished numerically according to their order from within outwards. They intervene between the scaphoid bone and the three inner metatarsi I 2