443 THE OBTUEATOR AETEHY. terminal branches. In its course through the pelvis, the artery is placed between the pelvic fascia and the peritoneum, a little below the obturator nerve. Beneath the pubis it lies with its accompanying vein and nerve in an oblique canal, formed partly by a groove in the bone, and partly by fibrous tissue, after passing through which it divides immediately into an external and an internal branch, which are deeply placed behind the external obturator miiscle. Branches.—(^) Within the jfdi'is, besides others of smaller size, the obturator artery often supplies a branch to the iliac fossa and muscle, and one which runs backwards upon the urinary bladder. (o») Anastomotic vessels, which may be c^Uq^ puhic, are given off by the obtu- rator artery as it is about to escape from the pelvis : these vessels ramify on the back of the pubis, and communicate behind the bone and the attachments of the abdominal muscles, with small offsets from the epigastric artery. These anasto- mosing branches lie to the inner side of the crural ring. Fi-. 284. Fig. 2S4, A. and B.—Views OP THB Left Wall of the Pelvis, with the attached abdominal muscles from the inside, showing dif- ferent positions of thb Aberrant Obturator Ar- teries (from E. Quain). In A, a case is represented in which the aberrant artery passes to the outside of a femora] hernia ; in B. an in- stance is shown in which it surrounds the neck of the sac. a, posterior surface of tlie rectus muscle ; h, iliacus in- ternus muscle ; c, symphysis pubis ; d, obturator mem- brane ; e, placed on the fascia transversalis, points to the vas deferens passing through the internal inguinal aperture ; /, the testicle ; +, the neck of a femoral hernial sac ; 1, the external iliac artery ; 2, the ex- ternal iliac vein ; below 2, the obturator nerve ; 3, the deep epigastric artery ; 4, aben-ant obturator artery, arising from the epigastric. ((?) The internal terminal branch cuiwes inwards be- neath the obturator exter- nus, close to the inner margin of the thyroid foramen, and furnishes branches to the obturator muscles, the gracilis, and the adductor muscles. {d') Tl^Q external terminal branch has a similar arrangement near the outer margin of the thyi-oid foramen ; it descends as far as the ischial tuberosity, and supplies the obturator muscles, and the upper ends of the long muscles which are attached to that tuberosity. This branch usually sends off a small artery which enters the hip-joint through the cotyloid notch, and ramifies in the synovial fatty tissue, and along the round ligament as far as the head of the