MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 187 I—MUSCLES Airo FASCIiS OF THE UPPEH LHVIB. A certain number of muscles situated superficially on the trunk pass to the bones of the shoulder and humerus, so as to attach the upper limb to the body. These muscles, from their position, form a division of the muscles of the trunk, but considered with reference to their destination and action they may be held as belonging to the upper limbs, and will therefore be so described in the present section. The muscles referred to are, posteriorly, the trapezius, latissimus dorsi, the rhomboidei, and levator anguli scapulse ; and, anteriorly, the two pectoral muscles, the subclavius, and the serratus magnus. Along with these might also be inchided the clavicular part of the sterno-cleido- mastoid muscle and the omohyoid ; but as these last have important relations with parts situated in the neck, they are more conveniently described among the muscles of that region. I. BETWEEN THE TBUNK AND THE UPPEH Iii:*<IB POSTERIORLY. Fascia.—The superficial fascia covering the muscles which pass from the trunk to the shoulder and upper limb posteriorly forms a layer of considerable strength with embedded fot lying below the skin : it is continuous with that of the neck above, that of the axilla and breast in front, and that of the abdomen and hips below. The deep fascia of the back forms a dense fibrous layer closely invest- ing the superficial muscles to which it famishes sheaths : at the outer margins of the trapezius and latissimus dorsi muscles it is continuous with the deep fasciae of the neck, breast, axilla, and abdomen, and turns round beneath the edges of the muscles so as to complete their sheaths and separate them from the subjacent layer of muscles. It is attached to the skeleton along the line of the spines of the vertebrae, and dorsum of the sacrum, to tiie occipital bone, the spine of the scapula, and the crest of the ilium. In the loins there is a strong, flat, shining tendinous structure called the lumbar ajmneurosis, to which the latissimus dorsi and other muscles are attached posteriorly ; but this will be most conveniently described along with the muscles of the back. Muscles.—The trapezius muscle (cucullaris) arises by a thin apon- eurosis from the protuberance of the occipital bone, and the inner third of its superior curved line, from the ligamentum nuchce, and from the spines of the last cervical and all the dorsal vertebra3, as well as from the supraspinous ligaments. From this extended line of origin the fibres converge to their insertion : the superior fibres, descending and turning forwards in the neck, are inserted into the external third of the clavicle at its posterior border ; the succeeding fibres pass transversely to the inner border of the acromion process and upper border of the spine of the scapula, while the inferior fibres, ascending obliquely, terminate in a flat tendon which glides over the triangular area at the iDase of the spine of the scapula, and is inserted into the rough mark at the root of the spine. The greater part of the line of origin presents only a small admixture of tendinous fibres, but opposite the seventh cervical