MUSCLES OF THE LIPS AXD MOUTH. 271 the angle of the mouth and that of the lower lip : and lastly, acting indirectly on the lower lip, the levator menti. The orbicularis oris muscle, or sphincter oris, consists of labial and facial parts. The lalial or marginal part occupies the red part of the lips, and forms a slightly convex fasciculus of pale fine fibres which are free from bony attachment, and can be traced from one lip to another round the comer of the mouth. The facial part, thinner and wider than the other, blends by its outer border with the several contiguous muscles that converge to the mouth, and more particularly with the buccinator muscle, the fibres of which are continuous with the deeper part of the orbicularis. Besides those fibres it has others, miiscidi incisivi (Henle), that are attached to the subjacent cartilage and bone ; viz.. in the upper lip two bundles for each half; and in the lower lip one for each. In the upper lip the outer slip, thin and weak, passes down- wards, and is attached opposite the incisor teeth, close to the alveolar edge of the upper jaw-bone ; while the other, thick and pointed, passes upwards and is fixed to the septum of the nose. In the lower lip the reinforcing fasciculus arises from the surface of the lower jaw, near the root of the canine tooth, and external to the levator labii mferioris, and passing directly outwards towards the angle of the mouth, its fibres blend with the rest of the muscle. Bclations.—The skin of the lips is closely connected to the inner part of the orbicularis oris muscle, whilst over the outer part fatty tissue is interposed, between them. The deep surface is in contact with the mucous membrane and the labial glands, as well as with the coronary arterial arch in each hp. The levator labii superioris proprius muscle arises from the superior maxillary bone immediately above the infraorbital foramen, and from the adjoining surface of the malar bone : it passes downwards and a little inwards to be blended with the orbicularis and other mus- cular fibres in the upper lip. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is overlapped b}* the orbicularis palpe- brarum, but its lower pai-t is subcutaneous ; it partly conceals the levator anguli oris and the compressor naris, and beneath it the infraorbital vessels and nerve emerge from the canal of that name. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently united with the levator lab. sup. alteque nasi. It is also commonly seen arising by two heads, the outer being attached to the malar bone, or coming as a slip from the orbicularis palpebrarum. The levator anguU oris, or musculus caninuSj arises in the canine fossa immediately below the infraorbital foramen, inclines down- wards and slightly outwards, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, where it becomes blended with the fibres of the orbicularis, zygomatici and depressor anguli oris. Relations.—At its origin this muscle is concealed by the proper elevator of the upper lip ; its anterior sm-face supports the infraorbital nerve and aiiiery, which separate ib from the preceding muscle : the posterior surface hes on the superior maxilla and the orbicularis and buccinator muscles, with which and the depressor anguli oris the fibres are blended. The ZYGOMATICI are two narrow and subcutaneous fasciculi of mus- . c'ular fibres, extending obliquely from the most prominent part of the cheek to the angle of the mouth, one being thicker and longer than the other.