250 MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. vessels and internal popliteal nerve. The short saphenous vein is placed on its surface, in the interval between its two parts. Varictk's.—The gastrocnemius is, in some cases, joined by a bundle of muscular fibres, which arises separately from the femur above one of the condyles. This bundle has been observed passing between the popliteal artery and vein (R. Quain, op. cit., plate 80, figs. 4 and 5). Fi?. 194. Fig. 194.—Superficial Muscles op THE Leg, seen proji the inner SIDE (after Bourgery). \ 1, vastus internus ; 2, sartorius ; 2', its tendon, spreading on the inner upper part of the tibia ; 3, gracilis ; 4, semitendinosus ; 4', its insertion ; and between and 4', that of the graciHs ; 5, semimembranosus ; 6, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 7, soleus ; 8, 8', placed upon the tendo Achillis, point to the small tendon of the plantaris descending on the inner side; 9, small jxirt of the tendon of the tibialis posticus ; 10, flexor com- munis digitorum ; 11, flexor longus pollicis ; 12, tibialis anticus ; 12', its tendon of insertion; 13, abductor pol- licis. The soleiis muscle arises externally from the posterior surface of the head and upper third of the shaft of the fibula ; internally from the oblique line which gives inser- tion to the popliteus, and from the posterior edge of the tibia about three inches below that line; and between the tibia and fibula, from a tendinous band which arches over the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Inferiorly, the muscular fibres descend upon the tendo Achillis considerably further than those of the gastroc- nemius. The posterior surface presents a thin coverino- of longitudinal aponeurotic fibres continued up from the tendon below, and gliding on the similar tendinous surface of the gastrocnemius muscle. On the deep surface the edges of two membranous tendons, the other edges of which look towards the middle line of the muscle, imbedded in its substance, are seen descend- ing from the tibial and fibular origins : the fibres from the deep aspects of those tendons are directed obliauely inwards to a tendinous