MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 297 oblique portion arises, by a narrow tendinous process, from the anterior tubercle of the body of the atlas, and is inserted into the fore part of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth ceryical vertebrae. 1). The inferior oblique, the smallest part of the muscle, extends ob- liquely downwards and inwards from the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical to the bodies of the first two or three dorsal vertebrae, c. The vertical part, connected by its extremities with the other divisions, is attached superiorly to the bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebrae, and inferiorly to the bodies of the three lower cervical and two or three upper dorsal vertebra. I?dIations.—By its anterior surface this muscle is in contact with the pharynx and oesophagTLS, tlie great vessels of the neck contained in theh sheath, the sym- pathetic and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the inferior thyroid artery. Behind, it rests upon the vei'tebras. "Nerves.—The rectus capitis anticus major and minor are supplied by branches from the upper cervical nerves ; the longus colli and scaleni by branches of the lov^er cervical nerves. Actions.—The scalene muscles, when the vertebral column is fixed, act as elevators of the ribs, and by many are considered as constant aids in the move- ment of inspiration. They may also act as lateral flexors of the neck when the ribs are fixed. The longus colli muscle is chiefly a flexor of the vertebral column. The recti muscles are capable of producing some degree of flexion of the head, and from the obliquity of their fibres may probably, when acting on one side, also give rise to slight rotation. IV.—MUSCLES AND FASCLS OF THS THUITK, The muscles passing between the trunk and the upper limb having been already described, those which belong exclusively to the trunk itself will now be treated of under the three divisions of, 1. Dorsal muscles, extending throughout the whole length ; 2. Thoracic muscles, including the diaphragm ; and 3. Abdominal and Perineal muscles. I.—DORSAL MUSCLES AND FASCIJE:. The muscles to be described under the above head, taken as a whole, occupy the vertebral groove or hollow between the line of vertebral spines and the prominences formed by the mastoid processes, the trans- verse cervical processes, the most projecting parts of the ribs> and the crest of the ilium, and they extend fcom the stiperior curved line of the occipital bone to the lower part of the sacrum. Some of them are small and are limited to certain parts of the extensive region now referred to ; others extend either continuously or by the serial repetition of similar short fasciculi, throughout the greater part of it. These muscles, together with those in the same region which belong more properly to the upper limb, have been frequently described as con- stituting six successive layers ; but the limits of several of these layers are ill-defined, and it will be sufficient for the purpose of description -to arrange the muscles falling properly within the present section, according to the main characteristics of their form and position, in the following groups : viz., a, the posterior serrati muscles ; Z>, the splenius and long erectors of the spine ; c, the complexns and trans- verso-spinales j dy the interspinales and intertransversales; the