418 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. enlarged, it furnishes one or two digital branches, and along with this the anas- tomosis with the superficial arch may be absent. The superficial volar branch occasionally arises as much as an inch and a half higher than usual. The Jirst dorsal interosseous branch (metacarpal), which descends on the second interosseous space to the cleft between the index and middle fingers, is not unfrequently so large as to furnish the collateral digital branch to each of those fingers. The carpal and interosseous (metacarpal) branches of the radial, are sometimes small, their place being suppKed by the perforating offset of the anterior interosseous, apparently by an enlargement of the ordinary anastomosis between them. The radial artery very frequently gives off a communicating branch to the superficial arch, near the lower border of the adductor pollicis. Fig. 273.—Dissection op the Left Arm, show- INa AN ENLARGED MEDIAN ArTERY WHICH RE- PLACES THE Radial and Ulnar Arteries in THE SUPPLY OF Palmar Digital Arteries to HALF the Fingers (from Tiedemann). \ 1, lower part of the brachial artery ; 2, radial artery, not giving any superficial volar branch ; 3, recurrent radial branch ; 4, ulnar artery passing superficially over the wrist and supplying at 4', digital arteries to half the hand ; 5, the enlarged median artery passing in front of the annular liga- ment of the carpus, and supplying 5', digital vessels to the outer half of the hand. DEEP PALMAB ARCH. The deep palmar arch, the continuation of the radial artery, commences at the upper end of the first interosseous space between the heads of the abductor indicis, turns transversely across the palm towards the fourth metacarpal bone, and inoscu- lates with the commimicating branch of the ulnar artery. The convexity of the arch thus formed is directed downwards. It rests on the interosseous muscles and on the metacarpal bones immediately below their carpal extremities, and is covered by the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor tendons of the fingers, and the mus- cles of the little finger. It is nearer to the carpus than the superficial arch, and differs from it in retaining its size almost un- diminished. It is in part accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which runs from the inner end of the arch out- wards. Branches.—(a) The recurrent branches (rami retrogradi.—Haller), from the upper concave side, ascend and anastomose with the branches from the anterior carpal arch, (i) The superior branches,three in number, pass backwards through the upper extremities of the last thi'ee interosseous spaces to inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. Fig 273.