383 YERTEBEAl. AKTEKY. Varieties.—The variations in origin of the subclavian arteries have been con- sidered along with the peculiarities of the arch of the aorta. Course.—The height to which these vessels reach in the neck is liable to some variation. Most commonly the artery crosses the neck a little higher than the clavicle, but it is sometimes, especially on the right side, placed as high as an inch or even an inch and a half above the level of that bone. Occasionally the subclavian artery perforates the anterior scalenus muscle, and in a few rare cases it has been seen altogether in front of the muscle, and close to the sub- clavian vein. That vein has been also seen to pass with the artery behind the scalenus muscle. Brandies.—Besides the variation in the position of the branches already refen-ed to, it may be noticed that, in a few cases, one or more of the three first branches have been found moved inwards from their usual position, or outwards to another division of the subcla^dan. Sometimes two, and much more rarely thi'ee branches arise from the third part of the vessel. BRANCHES OP THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 1, Vertebral Artery.—The yertebral artery, which is usually the first and largest branch of the subclavian, arises from the upper and back part of that yessel, and passing upwards and a little backwards, enters the transverse foramen of the sixth cervical vertebra—not unfre- quently that of one of the higher vertebra. The vessel then ascends in a vertical direction through the series of foramina of the transverse pro- cesses, as far as to the upper border of the axis ; thence it inclines out- wards to reach the corresponding foramen of the atlas, and after passing through that aperture Avinds backwards and inwards in the groove on the neural arch of that vertebra, and, piercing the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. Finally, it proceeds upwards and forwards, and turning round from the side to the front of the medulla oblongata on the basilar process of the occipital bone, unites with the vessel of the opposite side, at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the lasilar artery. At its commencement, the vertebral artery lies behind the internal jugular vein, and on approaching the vertebrae passes between the longus colli and the scalenus anticus muscle. On the left side, the thoracic duct in ascending crosses in front of the vessel from within outwa?:ds. While within the foramina of the cervical vertebra}, the artery is accompanied by a plexus of the sympathetic nerves and by the verte- bral vein, which, as the vessels issue from the foramen of the sixth vertebra, is in front of the artery : the cervical nerves as they emerge from the intervertebral foramina lie behind it. The suboccipital nerve passes out beneath it, where it lies on the groove of the atlas, and at that point the artery is covered by the superior oblique muscle. Within the skull it turns round the side of the medulla oblongata, between the origin of the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the sub-occipital, and then lies between the anterior surface of the medulla and the basilar process of the occipital bone. Branches.—A, Cervical Branches: {a) In the neck, the vertebral artery sends off at different points of its coui'se several small branches named lateral sphial arteries. Each of these entering- the spinal canal through an intervertebral foramen divides into two branches; one