BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. lU the interosseous ridge, into a posterior and upper part, which gives origin to the tibialis posticus, and an anterior and lower part, from which arise the long extensors of the toes and the peronens tertius, the interosseous membrane being attached to the line between these sur- faces. About the middle of the posterior surface is the medullary foramen directed downwards into the bone. THE TARSUS. The tarsus is composed of seven bones, viz., the calcaneum, astragalus, cuboid, scaphoid, and three cuneiform. Tlie calcaneum, or os calcis, is the largest bone of the foot. Pro- jecting downwards and backwards, it forms the heel. Above it articu- lates with the astragalus, and in front with the cuboid bone. Its principal axis extends forwards and outwards from its posterior extremity to the cuboid bone. The large posterior extremity, or filler calcis, presents inferiorly two tuhercles, which rest upon the ground, and the internal of which is the larger : the rest of its surface, looking backwards, is divided into a lower Fig. 103. Fig. 103.—Eight Foot, viewed prom above, SHOWiNa ITS Dorsal aspect. (A. T.) ^ a, scaphoid bone ; h, astragalus ; c, os calcis ; d, its great tuberosity ; e, internal or first cuneiform ; /, middle cuneiform ; external cuneiform ; h, cuboid bone. I to V, the series of metatarsal bones ; 1, 3, first and terminal phalanges of the great toe ; 1, 2, 3, first, second, and terminal phalanges of the second toe. £rt .which receives the attachment of the tendo Achillis, and an upper part smooth and less prominent, separated from that tendon by a synovial bursa. The part in front of the tuber forms a slightly constricted neclc. The internal surface of the bone, traversed by the plantar vessels and nerves and the flexor tendons, is deeply concave, and its concavity is surmounted in front by a flattened process, the sustentacU' limi ial% which projects inwards near the an- terior extremity of the bone in a line with its 1 upper surface, and presents inferiorly a groove occupied by the tendon of the flexor iongus pollicis. The superior surface presents two articular facets for the astragalus : the anterior of these is placed over the sustentaculum, and is flat; the other, external and posterior to this, and larger, is separated from it by a rough furrow, giving attachment to the interosseous ligament, and is con- vex from without inwards and backwards. In front of this latter facet is a rough depression, from which the extensor brevis digitorum takes origin. The anterior extremity articulates by a surface slightly concave in the vertical and convex in the transverse direction, with the cuboid bone, and internal to this, in front of the sustentaculum