260 MORPHOLOGY OF THE LIMB MUSCLES. arm and tlie palm of the hand, the foot being in a position of over-extension, it follows that the muscles on the anterior aspect of the leg are really extensors, and that theii- action in moving the foot so as to approximate the toes to the front of the leg merely increases the over-extension ; while, on the other hand, the muscles on the posterior aspect of the leg are really flexors, and their action in straightening the ankle-joint is to reduce merely this over-extension by an opposite movement of flexion. Nevertheless, it has been customary to apply the name of flexion to the action of raising the foot on the front of the leg, and that of extension to its depression. In the following description the usual terms are employed. The f/asti'0(memim muscle acts both as a flexor of the knee and an extensor of the ankle-joint. "Wlien the anterior muscles of the leg fix the ankle-joint, it is fitted to act as a flexor of the knee ; when the knee is fixed either by being placed ui complete extension or by the sustained action of the extensor muscles, the gastrocnemius acts entirely on the foot, and combines vtdth the salens in lifting the heel from the ground, and in raising the body on the toes. The tihiaUs antlcus and pcroneiLS tcrthis are flexors of the foot; the tlMalis posficvs and ucroneus longiis and Irevis are extensors. The two tibial muscles acting together, raise the inner border of the foot, and draw it inwards. The three peronei muscles raise the outer border of the foot and draw it outwards. The peroneus longus, in crossing the foot inferiorly, strengthens the transverse arch formed by the metatarsal bones and anterior range of tarsal bones ; especially when that arch is pressed upon by the weight of the body falling on the balls of the toes, as in stooping with bended knees. The flexor and extensor muscles of the toes, including the lumh'icales and interossei, aet like the corresponding muscles in the hand. The direction of the flexor longus digitorum is, however, modified by the flexor acccssorms, so as to bring its line of action into the direction of the middle of the foot and of the short flexor. The flexor accessorius and tendon of the long flexor muscles, likewise assist the short flexor and the plantar aponeurosis in maintaining the arch of the foot. MOKPHOLOa^ - OF THE LIMB-MUSCLES. It has already been mentioned (p, 185) that the muscles of the limbs and limb gu'dles are primarily derived mainly from the ventro-lateral division of the epaxial set of muscles. In the case of the upper limbs there are no muscles of hj'paxiai origin, but in the lower limb there are at least two muscles which may be regarded as prolongations outwards from the hypaxial set, one passing to its inner and anterior (preaxial) aspect (psoas), the other to its posterior and outer (postaxial) aspect (pyriformis). These two muscles are consequently without homologues in the upper limbs. As each limb begins bud-like to project from the side of the embryo, it may be supposed to receive an enveloping sheath of muscle from the side of the body (Humphiy). This sheath is at first a simple infundibulum, but it gradually extends in length with the growth of the limb, and becomes segmented, pai-i 2)crss?{, with the segmentation of the hard parts. The deeper fibres of the sheath are restricted to passing from one segment to the next, while the superficial fibres are frequently found to pass over one segment altogether, to the more distal parts. Humphry holds that of the three layers into v\^hich the trunk portion of the ventro-lateral muscle divides, two layers may be traced into its appendicular segments, corresponding respectively to the external oblique and superficial portion of the internal oblique layers. In the upper limb, from the gTeater freedom of movement of the girdle, and from its more superficial position, the fii'st segment of the muscular sheath is longer, and its constituent parts more easily recognised, than in the case of the trunk-girdle muscles of the lower limb, which are not diSerentiated to the same extent from the trunk muscles. Traced to the shoulder-girdle, the superficial layer of trunk- limb muscles is found to divide into three principal masses. Anteriorly are the pectorals; superiorly and posteriorly are the cleido-mastoid and tra,pezius, the latter being, continued to the bone of the forearm as the deltoid ; and infeiiorly and posteriorly the latissimus dorsi. Beneath the trapezius are the rhomboids.