INFEA-HYOID MUSCLES 293 occasionally, to a small extent, from the cartilage of the first rib. inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. It is Relations.—The muscle is concealed below by the sternum and the stemo- mastoid muscle, higher up by the skin and fascia only : it lies on the sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscles, which it partly covers. The inner border approaches that of the corresponding" muscle towards the middle of its extent, but is separated from it by a slight interval superiorly, and by a larger interval near the sternum ; the outer margin is in contact with the omo-hyoid near the os hyoides. The muscular fibres are, in many cases, interrupted by a transverse tendinous intersection. Fig. 214.—YiEW OF THE Submaxillary Muscles AND THE Depressors of THE Hyoid Bone and Larynx, from before. (For the explanation of the references in the upper part of the figure, see p. 282). c, body of the hyoid bone; d, mastoid process ; e, placed on the front of the thyroid cartilage, points to the thyro-hyoid muscle ; /, upper part of the ster- num ; g, lateral lobe of the thjToid gland ; -|-, its isth- mus, above which is the cri- coid cartilage covered by the crico-thyroid muscle; 8, placed on the levator sca- pula, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx ; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor ; 10, right sterno-hyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno- thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right mus- cle ; 12, placed on the right the right omo-hyoid. Fig. 214. sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of The sterno-tkyroid, broader and shorter than the preceding muscle, behind which it lies, arises from the thoracic surface of the first part of the sternum, lower down and more internally than the sterno-hyoid muscle, and ascends, diverging a little from its fellow, to be inserted into the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage. Helntxons.—The gi-eater part of its anterior surface is concealed by the sternum and the sterno-hyoid muscle, as well as by the sterno-mastoid. By its deep sur- face it rests on the innominate vein, the lower part of the common carotid artery, the trachea, and the thyroid body. The inner margin is contiguous to the muscle of the other side in the lower part of the neck. The median incision in the operation of tracheotomy is made between the two muscles. Varieties:—This muscle is sometimes partly crossed by transverse or oblique tendinous lines. At the upper extremity a few fibres are often found to blend with the thyi-o-hyoid muscle or with the inferior constrictor of the phar;>Tix. The thyro-kyoid muscle is continued upwards from the preceding ; it arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and