FLEXOR DIGITOECJM SUBLIMIS. cnlar structure may be placed tovv'arcis the lovi^er end, tlie upper part being- tendinous. Occasionally there are two long palniar muscles, one having the ordinary shape, while the other has one of the forms above referred to. Occa- sionally its origin passes up to the triceps muscle. Its insertion below is also subject to great variation. The most remarkable peculiarity is that in wliich a small muscle, a second palmaris longus, placed nearer to the inner border of the forearm than the usual muscle, covers the ulnar artery for some space above the carpus, and tenninates sometimes in the annular ligament or in the fascia, and frequently in the short muscles of the little finger. The Sexor carpi ulnaris, the innermost muscle of the superficial group, arises by two heads, one of which is attached tendinonslj to the inner condylar eminence of the humerus, the other to the inner side of the olecranon, and to the posterior border of the ulnar for two-thirds of its length, by an aponeurosis which is inseparably connected with the investing aponeurosis of the limb. The muscular fibres descending from this long line of origin, terminate in a tendon, which descends along the anterior margin of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisi- form bone : this tendon is prolonged, by means of ligamentous struc- tures, to the fifth metacarpal and unciform bones, as well as to the annular ligament and muscles of the little finger. licJations.—Tliis musclo rests on the flexor profundus digitorum. Tlie ulnar nerve passes down into the forearm in the interval betvreen the two heads, and is then covered by the muscle ; for the middle part of its course the ulnar artery is also covered hj it, and in the lower part of the forearm, the nerve and artery, emerging from beliinct the muscle, lie on its radial side. The posterior ulnar recurrent arterj'" x)asses between its two heads of orighi. The flexor digitorum siiblisnis vel perforatiis, the superficial flexor of the fingers, is a broad flat muscle placed behind the preceding muscles. It arises from the inner condyle by the common tendon, and the fibi'ous septa common to it and the other muscles ; from the internal lateral ligament; from the anterior surface of the coronoid process at the inner side ; and a thin flat portion from the oblique line and part of the anterior border of the radius. It is divided inferiorly into four tendons, which pass to be inserted into the second phalanx of each of the four inner digits. These tendons pass under the annular liga- ment of the wrist in pairs, one in front of the other ; the anterior pair consisting of those for the middle and ring fingers, the posterior of those for the index and little fingers. That for the little finger is smaller than the others. In the palm of the hand the tendons diverge, and each, accompanied by a tendon of the flexor profundus, enters a fibrous sheath which binds both tendons down to the palmar surface of the phalanges. Opposite the first phalanx the tendon of the flexor sublimis divides into two parts, which fold closely round the tendon of the deep flexor, and are reunited by their margins behind it : the two portions of the tendon thereafter separating, pass to be inserted one on each side into a ridge at the middle of the lateral border of the second phalanx. A large synovial hursa loosely invests the tendons of both the superficial and deep flexors of the fingers behind the annular ligament, extending downwards into the palm of the hand. In the little finger it approaches the synovial lining of the sheath, and in the thumb it usually communicates with it. The sJieaths of the flexor iendons, by which thev are bound down to p 2