416 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. The anterior radial carpal is a small branch which arises from the radial artery, near the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and runs inwards in front of the radius. It anastomoses with the anterior ulnar carpal artery, so as to form an arch above and in front of the radio- carpal articulation, from which branches descend to supply the joints at the wrist. The superficial volar (ramus superficialis vol^e), arising from the radial artery, near the place where it leaves the front of the fore-arm, passes onwards into the hand. In size it is variable ; in most instances it is very small, and ends in the muscles of the thumb ; but in others it attains considerable size, and crossing those muscles, terminates by inosculating with the radial extremity of the superficial palmar arch, which it thus completes. Several unnamed muscular branches are given by this part of the artery to the muscles on the fore part of the arm. B. The branches. which arise from the radial artery behind the wrist are, the posterior carpal, the metacarpal, the dorsal arteries of the thumb, and the dorsal artery of the index finger. Fig. 272.—Deep View op the ArtepvIes of the Wrist and Hand, from before (from R. Quain). ^ The anterior annular ligament of the carpus has been divided and the lower parts of the common flexors and flexor of the thumb have been removed ; portions of these tendons are represented as turned down upon the fingers with parts of the lumbricales muscles ; the superficial palmar artery is removed, and the interossei muscles are exposed, a, ulnar nerve ; h, tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle ; c, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis ; d, inserted tendon of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis; 1, radial artery ; 1', its lower part giving ofif the anterior carpal and superficial volar branches; 2, ulnar artery ; 3, anterior interosseous artery before passing behind the pronator quadratus muscle ; 4, radial artery, appearing deeply in the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones and passing into the deep palmar arch ; 5, deep branch of the ulnar artery dipping between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti to join the deep arch and accompanied by the ^ deep branch of the ulnar nerve ; 6, a palmar digital artery, rising from the first part of the superficial palmar arch ; 7, the princeps pollicis, and 8, the radialis indicis arteries rising from the radial artery ; 9, 9, 9, interosseous branches of the deep palmar ai-ch proceeding down on the interosseous muscles to join the palmar digital arteries from the superficial arch. (a) The posterior radial carpal is a small but constant branch. It arises beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and running inwards on the back of the carpus anastomoses with the posterior ulnar carpal branch, completing the arch from which spring the dorsal interosseous arteries of the third and fourth spaces. It anasto- moses, also, with the terminal branch of the anterior interosseous of the fore-arm.