603 THE OBTUEATOR NEEVE. ?„nterior and a posterior branch, which are separated from one another Vy the short adductor muscle. A.—The ANTERIOR PORTION communicates with the accessory ob- turator nerve, when that nerve is present, and descends in front of the adductor brevis and behind the pectineus and adductor longus muscles. It gives branches as follows. (c?) An articular hrajich to the hip-joint arises near the thyroid membrane. (/y) Mu.scular hranches are given to the gracilis and adductor longus muscles, and occasionally also others to the adductor brevis and pectineus. (c?) The terminal tirhj turns outwards upon the femoral artery, and surrounds that vessel with small filaments. {(T) An offset at the lower border of the adductor longus communicates beneath the fascia with the internal cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and with a branch of the internal saphenous nerve, forming- a sort of ulexus. Fig. 368.—The LitmbxIr Plexus from Fig. 368. BEFORE, WITH THE DISTRIBUTION OP SOME OF ITS Nerves (slightly altered from Schmidt). -5- (7, the last rib ; 5, qiiadratus lum- borum muj^cle ; c, obhque and trans- verse muscles cut near the crest of the ilium and turned down ; d, pubes ; e, adductor brevis muscle ; /, pectineus divided and turned outAvards ; rj, adduc- tor longus ; 1, iho-hypogastric nerve ; 2, ilio-inguinal; 3, external cutaneous ; 4, anterior crural; 5, accessory obtu- rator ; 6, obturator united with the ac- cessory by a loop round the pubes ; 7, genito-crural in two branches cut short near their origin ; 8, 8, lumbar r-ortion of the gangliated sympathetic cord. B.—The POSTERIOR or deep part of the obturator nerve, having: passed through some fibres of the external obturator muscle, crosses behind the short adductor to the fore part of the adductor magnus, where it divides into many brauches, all of which enter those muscles, excepting one which is pro- longed downwards to the knee- joint. {a) The muscular branches supply the external obturator and the great adductor muscle, with the short adductor also when thi^ branch from the anterior division of the nerv^e. (J) The artlcnJar branch for the knee rests at first on the adductor magnus, but perforates the lower fibres of that muscle, and thus reaches the upper part of the popliteal space. Supported by the popliteal artery, and sendmg filaments around that vessel, the nerve then descends to the back of the knee-joint, and enters the articulation through the posterior Hgament. (Thomson, " London Med. and Surg. Journal," No. xcv.) muscle receives no