THE EXTERNAL ILIAG ARTEEY. 451 forwards by the bone. At a short ^ distance from its lower end the artery is crossed by the circumflex iliac vein. Fig. 289.—View of the Distribution Fi<^. AND Anastomosis op the Deep Epi- GASTRIC AND INTERNAL MajHIARY Ar- TERIES (from Tiedemann). For tlie detailed description of this figure, see p. 390. 7, placed on the transversalis muscle above the internal inguinal aperture, points to the last part of the external iliac artery at the place where it gives origin to 8, the epigastric and 9, the circumflex iliac ar- tery ; 10, anastomosis of the epigastric artery and the abdominal branch of the in- ternal mammary in and behind the rectus muscle ; 11, the spermatic cord receiving the cremasteric branch from the epigastric artery; 12, femoral artery ; 13, femoral vein ; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the femoral ring. Large lympliatic glands are found resting upon the front and inner side of the vessel; and the sper- matic vessels descend upon it near its termination. A branch of the genito-crural nerve crosses it just above Poupart's ligament. Branches.—The external iliac artery supplies some small branches to the psoas muscle and the neigh- bouring lymphatic glands, and, close to its termination, two other branches of considerable size, named the epigastric and the circumflex iliac, which are dis- tributed to the walls of the abdomen. 1. The deep epigastric ar- tery (inferior epigastric) arises from the fore part of the external iliac artery, usually a few lines above Poupart's ligament. It first inclines downwards, so as to get on a level with the ligament, and then passes obliquely upwards and inwards between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, to reach the rectus muscle of the abdomen. It ascends almost vertically behind the rectus, and rising within the sheath is placed between it and the muscle, and terminates At some distance above the umbilicus in offsets which ramify in the substance of the muscle and anastomose with the terminal branches of the internal mammary and inferior intercostal arteries. G G 2