96 BOXES OF THE TPPER LIMB. nucleus for the body appears a little behind the glenoid cavity about the 7th or 8th week. Around this centre is formed a triangular plate of bone, from near the upper margin of which about the 3rd month the spine appears as a slight ridge. At birth the coracoid and acromion process, the base and inferior angle, the edges of the spine and of the glenoid cavity are cartilaginous. The nucleus of the coracoid process is especially worthy of attention, both because it appears in the first year, while the other supplementary nuclei are formed only after pu- berty, and because, although reduced to a mere epiphysis in mammals, it forms a distinct and sometimes large bone in other vertebrate animals. The coracoid process is united to the body about the age of puberty. The acromion process is cartilaginous till the 14th or 16th year, when two distinct nuclei appear. These soon coalesce and form an epiphysis which is united to the spine from the 22nd to the 25th year. The cartilage of the base, which it may be noticed corresponds p],.^ S2. Fig. 82.—Posterior Aspect op the Sternum and IIight Shoulder Girdle from A Fcetus of about four months (Flower after Parker). 1.^- The dotted parts are cartilaginous ; ost, omostemum, afterwards becoming the inter- articular fibro-cartilage ; pc, precoracoid of Parker ; a, acromion ; cl, shaft of clavicle ; mss, mesoscapular segment of Parker ; c, coracoid ; gc, glenoid cavity ; r/b, glenoid border ; cb, coracoid border ; af, anterior or supraspinous fossa; pf, posterior or infraspinous. fossa ; S8, suprascapular border. to a more largely developed permanent cartilage or bone found in many animals, becomes the seat of ossification about the 16th to the 18th year, by the appear- ance of a nucleus at the inferior angle, and thereafter of a line of osseous deposit extending upwards throughout its length. The epiphysis thus formed, together with an epiphysial lamina which occasionally forms the border of the glenoid cavity, are united to the body about the 25th year. Fig. 83. Fig. S3.—Ossification of the Ciaviglb (E. Quain). a,-the clavicle of a foetus at birth, osseous in the shaft, 1, and cartilaginous at both ends. i, clavicle of a man of about twenty-thres years of age ; the shaft, 1, fully ossified to the acromial end ; the sternal epiphysis, 2, is repre- sented rather thicker than natural. The clavicle begins to ossify before any other bone in the body. Its ossifica- tion commences before the deposition of cartilage in connection with it, but afterwards progresses in cartilage as well as in fibrous substance. It is fonned