SACRO-YERTEBRAL ARTICULATIOJT. 159 supports the head of the metacarpal bone. In the joint of the thumb there are two sesamoid bones, one situated at each side, which are connected with its ligaments. A synovial liiembrane is present in each joint, and invests the surface of the ligaments which connect the bones. The mterplialcmgeal articulations are formed on the same plan as that which obtains in the articulations between the bases of the proximal phalanges with the metacarpal bones. Movements of tlie Wrist and Fingers.—In the radio-carpal and common carpal articulations, there is allowed not only fle^don and extension, but a certain amount of lateral bending. The superior articular surfaces of both ranges of carpal bones bemg prolonged further on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect, over-extension is allowed in both joints to some degree. In over-exten- sion the opposing surfaces are most perfectly adapted to each other; in fiexion they are least so. The kind of movement which is allowed between the carpal and metacarpal bones is best illustrated by i^lacmg the hand in such a position that the weight of the body is rested upon the open palm. The metacarpal range, which naturally is concave towards the x)alm, is flattened ; and the inter- osseous and palmar metacarpal ligaments are thus tightened, while a slight separation of the opposed surfaces of the bones takes place ; so also the palmar carpo-metacarpal ligaments are tightened, and both palmar and interosseous ligaments of the second range of carpal bones. The convex part of the os magnum and unciform bone, fitted in these circumstances into the concavity of the first range, is a little wider than the part usually in contact Vv^ith it; and thus, while the bones of the first range are separated from the palmar side, those of the second range are pressed still more apart from the distal aspect. The whole arrangement secures elasticity. The fourth and fifth metacarpal bones, being more movable at their carpal ai-ticulation than the second and third, bend forward very distinctly in shutting the hand, thus rendering the palm more hollow, and bringing the tips of the fingers more closely together. At the phalangeal articulations the only movements allowed are flexion and extension, while over-extension is prevented by the ligamentous structui-es in front of the joints. At the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations abduction and adduction are allowed chiefly in the extended position. In the articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium every movement is allowed except rotation, which is prevented by the shape of the articular surfaces. ARTICULATIOlSrS OF THE PELVIS. Articulation of the Pelvis with the last Lumbar Yertebra. —The fifth lumbar is united to the first sacral vertebra by anterior and posterior ligaments of the body, capsular ligaments of the articular processes, ligamenta subflava of the arch, interspinous ligaments, and by an intervertebral plate, all of which are similar to those between the vertebrae above. It is also attached to the pelvis by two other liga- ments, as follows. The sacro-vertebral ligament extends obliquely from the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra downwards to^ the de- pressed lateral part of the base of the sacrum; its form is triangular, and its fibres diverge as they descend, some of them joining the anterior sacro-iliac Hgament. The ilio-lumbar ligament is extended horizontally between the summit of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra and the iliac crest of the innominate bone; it is inserted into the latter at tho