557 THE PITETJMO-GASTEIC XEEYE. supplies nerves to the organs of yoice and respiration, to the alimentary canal as far as the stomach, and to the heart. Surface attachment.—This nerve arises from the restiform body of the medulla, by twelve or fifteen fine roots, beneath and in a line with the roots of the <;losso-pharyngeal nerves. Deep origin.—The fibres pass inwards and backwards through the medulla to a column of nerve-cells beneath the lowest part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, where they cause a prominence on the surface. At the point of the calamus scriptorius the nuclei are in contact in the middle line, but a little higher up they are separated by the nuclei of the hypoglossal nerve. Course and distribution.—The filaments by which this nerve springs from the medulla oblongata close below those of the glosso- pharyngeal nerve are arranged in a flat fasciculus, which is directed outwards with that nerve, across the flocculus to the jugular foramen. Fig. 347.—Diagram op the Roots Fig. 347. AND Anastomosing Branches of THE Nera'^es op the Eighth Patr AND Neighbouring Nera^es (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Le- veille). 1, facial nerve ; 2, glosso-pharyn- gealwitli tLc petrous ganglion repre- sented; 2', connection of tlie digastric branch of tbe facial nerve with theglosso-xjharyngeal nerve; 3,pneu- mo-gastric, with both its ganglia re- presented : i, spinal accessory; 5, bypoglossdl ; 6, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; 7, loop of union betvveen the two first cer- vical nerves; 8, carotid branch of the sympathetic ; 9, nerve of Jacoi»- ^00 (tympanic), given off from the petrous ganglion ; 10, its filaments to the sympathetic ; 11, twig to the Eustachian tube; 12, twig to the fenestra ovalis; 13, twig to the fenestra rotunda ; 14, twig of union with the small superficial petrosal; 15, twig of union with the large superficial petrosal; 16, otic gang- lion ; 17, branch of the jugular fossa, giving a filament to the petrous ganglion; 18, union of the spinal accessory with the pneumo- gastric; 19, union of the hypo- glossal with the first cervical nerve 20, union between the sterno-mastoid branch of the spinal accessory and that of the second cer\dcal nerve ; 21, pharyngeal plexus ; 22, superior laryngeal nerve . 23, external laryngeal; 24, middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. In passing through the opening at the base of the skull the pneumo- gastric nerve is contained in the same sheath of dura mater, and sur- rounded by the same tube of arachnoid membrane as the spinal accessory nerve ; but it is separated from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve by a process of membrane. In the foramen the filaments of the nerve