186 FASCIJ]: IN GEXERAL. kinds into the looser varieties of connective tissue ; while the latter, denser in character, frequently exhibit more or less regular arrangements of strong white fibres, giving them a shining appearance, and are often termed aponeuroses. Superficial Fascia.—Under this name, or as siihmtaneom fascia, is described the layer of loose tissue of varying density, which is placed immediately below the skin, all over the body. It is the web which contains the subcutaneous fat, the imnniculus adiposus, and in some regions superficial muscles, as the 'panniculus carnosiis. Fi'om the sub- cutaneous tissue of the eyelids, however, as well as from that of the penis and scrotum, adipose matter is entirely absent. Beneath the fatty layer of the superficial fascia, which is immediately subcutaneous, there is generally another layer of the same structure, comparatively devoid of adipose tissue, in which the trunks of the subcutaneous vessels and nerves are found. When the subcutaneous fat becomes absorbed, the stroma in which it was deposited is still left, and its meshes approach one another, so that in lean subjects a more fibrous condition of the superficial fascia is found than in others. Beep Pascise and Apone^iroses.—Under the name of deep fascia is comprehended that stronger hiyerof fibrous or connective tissue wdiich, lying close to the muscles, invests them, or dips between them, and forms a nearly continuous covering of the body beneath the superficial fascia. It is chiefly to the stronger parts of this fascia that the name of aponeuroses has been given. Those covering the muscles have been named aponeuroses of investment (Bichat), to distinguish them from proper tendinous expansions, or aponeuroses of insertion, of muscles. This distinction, however, is far from being universally applicable: apo- neuroses of insertion are often continued into aponeuroses of invest- ment, as in the instance of the glutens maximus, or into softer fascia, as at tlie lateral parts of the occipito-frontal aponeurosis. The principal aponeuroses of investment are those which incase the muscles of the limbs, binding them down in a common sheath, and connected in various places by septa with the bones. They are characteristic of the limbs, there being no structure entirely corresponding to them in the rest of the body. Parts of the deep fasciae in the vicinity of the larger joints as at the wrist and ankle, become strengthened into tight transverse bands, which serve to hold the tendons close to the bones, and hence receive the name of redinacida. Synovial Sac3 and Bheatlis: Eitrs^ Mucosas.—In various situ- ations where the tendons of muscles pass over the prominences of bones, or run in fibrous sheaths, synovial cavities exist, either of a vesicular or tubular form, thus forming the synovial durscd or sheaths. In many such instances a true synovial membrane appears to cover the adjacent surfaces, and diminishes their friction in moving on each other. In other places less defined spaces exist in the connective tissue between parts of the tendons or fascia3, and occasionally between parts of the skin and the harder or more prominent structures on which they lie. In some of these subcutaneous burs^e a distinct synovial mem- brane cannot be found ; but there are probably gradations of transition between these bursal spaces and those which are lined by synovial mem- brane. Some of the synovial sacs and sheaths of tendons in the vicinity of joints communieate fi'eely with the articular cavities. (See Gen. Anat., vol. ii. p. 201.)