Fig. 222. MUSCLES OF THE THORAX. low. (A. T.) i Fig. 222.—View OP THE 310 vertebra to the last rib, arching oyer the front of the quadratus lumbo- rum : it is the upper part of the fascia covering that muscle, somewhat increased in thickness. From both ligamenta arcuata diaphragmatic muscular fibres take their origin, and are directed upwards to the posterior part of the tendinous centre. Diaphragm, from be- In the preparation from whicli this figure is drawn, the lower ribs and sternum are thrown upwards so as to expose and stretch the lower surface of the dia- phragm, and the four upper lumbar vertebra have been exposed by the removal of all the muscles on the right side, and the dissection of the psoas mag- nus and quadratus lumbo- rum on the left side, o, the aorta emerging in the abdomen from between the pillars on the first lumbar vertebra ; b, the oesopha- gus, in its aperture between the muscular crura, repre- sented too far to the right; c, the aperture for the vena cava inferior situated at the place of union of the middle and right divisions of the trefoil tendon; d, the body of the fourth kimbar vertebra; e, e, the twelfth ribs near their extremities ; /,/,the ends of the eleventh ribs ; 1, the tendinous part of the right crus ; 2, the left; 3, the tendinous arch formed by their union over the aorta, above which the decussation of muscular fibres is seen ; 4, second decussation of muscular fibres in front of the oesophageal opening ; 5, on the right side, placed near the end of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra, towards which, arching fi'om above and from within, over the -1-, is seen the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; and from which, passing towards e, is seen the ligamentum arcua- tum externum ; 5', on the left side, is in a similar position, but here the quadratus lumborum muscle is seen descending from the twelfth rib behind the ligamentum arcuatum externum, and the upper part of the psoas muscle is within the ligamentum arcuatum internum ; 6, the middle division of the trefoil tendon, from which in front pass the slips of attachment of the diaphragm to the ensiform process ; 7, the left, and 8, the right divisions of the trefoil tendon ; from the outer and anterior margins of these the costal slips of the muscle are seen diverging, and from the posterior border of the tendon the slips of origin proceeding from the ligamenta arcuata and the tendinous arch of the crura ; 9, part of the quadratus lumborum ; 10, part of the psoas magnus. c. The fibres arising from the cartilages of the six lower ribs form a series of serrated slips interdigitating with the attachments of the trans- versalis abdominis muscle. They sometimes arise also in part from the osseous ribs. The fibres proceeding from the ensiform cartilage form a narrow slip, sometimes divided into two, on each side of wfiich there occurs an, interval, in which the lining membranes of the thorax and