AETICULATIONS OF THE HEAD. 144 TEMPOEO-MAXILLAEY ARTICULATION. The lower jaw articulates by its condyle on each side with the smooth surface of the temporal bone, extending over the part of the glenoid Fi<?. 130. The external lateral ligament is a attached above to the external surface and the tubercle of the zygoma ;. Fig. 130. A PORTIOX OP THK Skull with the Loweu J.ur AND Hyoid Bone, seen fuoji THE RIGHT AND OUTER SIDE. (A. T., after Arnold.) i 1, the external lateral ligament; 2, a part of the capsule of the joint; 3, styloid process ; 4, stylo- maxiliaiy ligament; 5, stylo-hyoid ligament; 6, lesser cornu of the- hyoid bone with some short liga- ments attaching it to the hody and great cornu ; 7, the body 8, the great cornu. fossa iu front of the Giaser- ian fissure and the anterior root of the zygoma. Tlie joint is divided by an in- terarticular fibro-cartilage into an upper and a lower synovial cavity, short fasciculus of fibres, Fig. 131. Fig. 131.—A portion of the Skuld, AND Lower Jaw with half the hyoid BONE, SEEN FROM THE INSIDE. (A. T.) ^ The numbers are the same as in Fig. 130 ; 3, the styloid process, detached from the skull ; 7, the posterior and inner sur- face of the right half of the body of the hyoid bone ; 9, the internal lateral liga- ment of the temporo-maxillary joint; 10, the upper opening of the inferior dental canal. and below, to the external surface and posterior border of the neck of the lower jaw, its fibres being directed downwards and back- wards. Thin and short additional ligamentous fibres cover the syno- vial membrane in front and on the inside, forming an irregular cap- sule round the joint. The internal lateral ligament, thin, loose, and elongated, lies at some distance from the joint. It extends fi'om the spinous process of the sphenoid bone downwards and a little forwards, to be attached to the inner border of the inferior dental foramen. Between it and the lower jaw are placed the external pterygoid muscle, the internal max- illary artery, and the inferior dental nerve. It has no immediate