398 THE AXILLARY ARTEEY. turning closely round the border of the scapula, which is frequently grooved to receive it, passes between the teres minor and the bone, and ramifies in the infraspinous fossa, where it anastomoses with the supra- scapular and posterior scapular arteries. Branches.—Tlie dorsalis scapulae gives off,—(a) ventral branches, slender vessels which ramify in the subscapular fossa between the subscapular muscle and the bone, and anastomose with twigs from the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; (&) branches to the teres muscles, and particularly a twig which descends between their origins ; (c) terminal branches in the infraspinous fossa. ^ 6. The posterior circumflex arterj^, a considerable vessel but smaller than the subscapular, arises opposite the lower border of the subscapular muscle, below the subscapular artery, and is directed back- wards in company with the circumflex nerve, passing through the space between the teres muscles, the humerus, and the long head of the triceps muscle, and therefore separated by the long head of the triceps from the subscapular artery. It winds round the humerus, and ter- minates by ramifying in the deltoid muscle and on the shoulder-joint, and by anastomosing with the anterior circumflex and suprascapular arteries, as well as with the acromio-thoracic. 7. The g^siterior circumflex artery, much smaller than the posterior circumflex, arises nearly opposite to it or lower down, and from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes from within outwards and forwards, under the inner head of the biceps and the coraco-brachialis muscle, resting on the fore part of the humerus, until it reaches the bicipital groove. There it divides into two branches, one of which ascends in the groove with the loug head of the biceps, to the head of the bone and the capsule of the joint ; the other continues outwards, and anas tomoses with the posterior circumflex branch. Varieties.—The most important variety in the trunk of the axillary artery consists in its giving off a much larger branch than usual,—an arrangement which has been observed in the proportion of one out of every ten cases. In one set of cases, this large branch is continued as one of the arteries of the fore-arm ; most frequently the radial (about one in 33), sometimes the ulnar (1 in 72), and, rarely, the interosseous artery (1 in 506 : R. Quain), In another set of cases, the large branch gives origin to the subscapular, the two circumflex, and the two profunda arteries of the arm ; but sometimes only one of the circumflex, or only one of the deep humeral arteries, arises from it. In the second class of cases the divisions of the brachial plexus of nerves surround the common tmnk of the branches instead of the main vessel. This disposition may with probability be explained by supposing that the trunk of the branches was originally the brachial artery, but that in early life it had become obstructed below, and that there had become developed in its place, as an apparent brachial artery for the supply of the lower portions of the limb, a vas aberrans, such as is sometimes seen arising from the brachial artery, and uniting v/ith one of its branches. The superior thoracic artery is so frequently given oft' by the acromio-thoracic, that some anatomists have described that as the normal arrangement, giving the common trunk the name of tJwraeic axis. The long thoracic artery often rises from the acromio-thoracic, or is replaced by enlargement of the normal branches of that artery, and not unfrequently is given off by the subscapular. The dorsalis scapulte sometimes spring-s directly from the axillary artery. The posterior circumflex artery is sometimes removed from the axillary to the superior profunda branch of the brachial, in which case it ascends behind the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major. In another class of cases not quite so numerous, the posterior circumflex gives off one or more branches usually derived from other sources : as for example (placing them in the order of frequency), the anterior circumflex, the superior profunda, the dorsal scapular,