BRANCHES OF THE UPPER CERVICAL GANGLION. 629 branch, of the first cervical ganglion is soft in texture and of a reddish tint, seeming to be in some degree a prolongation of the ganglion itself. In its course to the skull, it is concealed by the internal carotid artery, with which it enters the carotid canal in the temporal bone, and it is then divided into two parts, which are placed one on the outer, the other on the inner side of the vessel. The external division distributes filaments to the internal carotid artery, and, after communicating by means of other filaments with the internal division of the cord, forms the carotid plexus. Fi-. GS2. Fig. 382.—G0NNECTI0]!TS OF THE SYMPATHETIC NeRVE THROUGH ITS CaROTID BrANCH WITH SOME OP THE CrANIAL NeRVES. The full description of this figure will be found at p. 539. The following numbers refer to sympathetic nerves and their connections :—6, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 9, its carotid branch ; 10, a part of the sixth nerve, receiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical s}Tnpathetic ganglion ; 12, its prolongation in the carotid branch; 15, anastomosing nerve of Jacobson ; 16, twig uniting it to the sympathetic. The inner division, rather the smaller of the two, supplies filaments to the carotid artery, and goes to form the cavernous plexus. The terminal parts of these divisions of the cranial cord are prolonged on the trunk of the internal carotid, and extend to the cerebral and ophthalmic arteries, around which they form secondary plexuses, those on the cerebral artery ascending to the pia mater. One minute plexus enters the eye-ball with the central artery of the retina. It was stated by Ptibes (Mem. de la Societe Med. d'Emulation, torn, viii. p. 606,) that the cranial prolong'ations of the sympathetic nerve from the tv^o sides coalesce with one another on the anterior communicating- artery,—a small gang-- iion or a plexus being- formed at the point of junction ; but this connection has not been satisfactorily made out by other observers. Carotid plexus.—The carotid plexus, situated on the outer side of the internal carotid artery at its second bend (reckoning fi'om below), or between the second and third bends, joins the fifth and sixth cranial nerves, and gives many filaments to the vessel on which it lies. Branches.—(cj) The connection with the sixth nerve is established by means of one or two filaments of considerable size, which are supplied to that nerve where it lies by the side of the internal carotid artery.