S61 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. adults. It reaches from the point of division of the common carotid, opposite the upper margin of the thyroid cartilage, to the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw-bone, or a little lower, and there divides into its two terminal branches, the temporal and the internal maxillary. It diminishes rapidly as it ascends, owing to the number and size of the branches which spring from it. At first the external carotid lies nearer to the middle line of the body than the internal carotid ; but it soon becomes superficial to that artery, at the same time curving slightly forwards as it ascends to its place of division. At its origin this artery is concealed by the sterno- mastoid muscle, emerging from beneath which, it is covered only by the platysma myoides and the fascia, and traverses the upper part of a triangular intermuscular space bounded by the sterno-mastoid, omo- hyoid and digastric muscles ; it then becomes deeply placed, passing beneath the stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles, and finally becoming embedded in the substance of the parotid gland. In the lower part of its course it is in contact with the pharynx and hyoid bone; further up it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland from the back of the ramus of the lower jaw, and rests upon the styloid process and the stylo-pharyngeus m.uscle, which, with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, are interposed between it and the internal carotid artery. Relation to veins.—This artery has usually no companion vein, though it may be crossed superficially by small branches of the con- tiguous veins ; but, when the internal maxillary vein joins the deep instead of the superficial jugular, it accompanies the external carotid. Relation to nerves.—Close to the digastric muscle the external carotid artery is crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and at a short dis- tance from its upper end, in the substance of the parotid gland, by the facial nerve. The glosso-pliaryngeal nerve lies between it and the internal carotid ; and the superior laryngeal nerve is under both vessels. Branches.—The branches of the external carotid artery are eight in number, viz., three directed forwards, the superior thyroid, the lingual, and the facial ; two directed backwards, the occipital and posterior auricular ; and three extending upwards, the ascending pharyngeal branch, together with the temporal and internal maxillary, the two terminal branches into which the artery divides. In addition to the principal branches here enumerated, the external carotid gives ofi* small offsets to the parotid gland. Varieties.—The peculiarities in the origin of this vessel have been noticed along- with those of the common carotid artery. The branches are not unfre- quently crowded together on the main stem, near the commencement, or at a higher point. Occasionally they take origin at regular distances in the whole length of the vessel. The usual number of branches may be diminished by the association with another artery of one of the ordinary branches, or by the union into a single trunk of two or three branches which are usually derived separately from the main artery : so also the number may be augmented by the transfer to this vessel of some branch not ordinarily derived from it, or by the addition of some unusual branch. There is frequently present a small distinct branch for the stemo-masjoid muscle, whi3h bsnis'Dubwai'ds ove: th3 hypoglossal nerve. EEANCHSS OF TPIE EXTEHNAL CARTOID ARTERY. lo Superior Tkyrcid Artersr.—This, the first of the anterior set of branches, is given oif close to the commencement of the external carotid.