MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 294 is inserted into the lower border of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone, near the place where these unite. Bclatwn!?.—^This muscle is concealed by tiie stemo-liyoid and omo-hyoid, and rests on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and on the thyro-hyoid membrane. Between that membrane and the muscle, the superior laryngeal nerve and artery are placed before entering the larynx. The omo-hyoid is a long ribbon-shaped muscle, consisting of two bellies united by an intervening tendon. It arises from the upper border of the scapula, near the suprascapular notch, and occasionally from the ligament which crosses the notch. Thence it extends for- wards and only slightly upwards, across the root of the neck, till it passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and then, curving rapidly, it ascends nearly vertically, to be inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. The tendon which divides the muscle is placed beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and varies much in length and form in different bodies. The tendon is enclosed within the deep cervical fascia, which, after forming a sort of sheath for it, is prolonged downwards, and becomes attached to the sternum and the cartilage of the first rib ; and by this means, as also by fascia investing the poste- rior belly and descending to the clavicle, the muscle is maintained in its curved position. Relations.—At its scapular origin the muscle is covered by the trapezius, in the middle of its course by the stemo-mastoid, and at its upper part by the platysma ; it crosses the scaleni muscles, the cervical nerves, the sheath of the common carotid artery and jugular vein, and the sterno-thyroid and thyi-o-hyoid muscles. Varictks.—The muscle occasionally is attached to the clavicle instead of the scapula, arising from the former bone about its middle, and in such cases the posterior belly is absent. One instance has been recorded (R. Quain) in which the posterior belly alone was present, and was connected to the hyoid bone by a band of fascia. The muscle has likewise been observed double, one slip being attached to the clavicle and the other to the normal place of origin from the scapula. Nerves.—The stemo-mastoid receives its motor nerves from the spinal ac- cessory, which in the substance of the muscle is reinforced by union with branches from the second and third cervical nerves. The infra-hyoid muscles receive their motor nerves mainly from, the hypo-glossal, the thyro-hyoid by a direct branch from the trunk of the nerve, the rest from the descendens nonir and in part from it in combination with the communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves. Actions.—The sterno-cleido-mastoid muscles acting together bend forwards the head and neck towards the sternum. When the muscle of one side only is in action, the head, while it is slightly flexed, is inclined laterally to the side on which the muscle contracts, and rotation is produced, by which the face, and especially the chin, is directed towards the opposite side. This is the attitude in wry-neck, produced by the unequal action of the muscles of the two sides. While the sterno-hyoid and omo-hyoid muscles act only as depressors of the hyoid bone, the stemo-thyroid muscle, being a direct depressor of the thyroid cartilage, may also draw down the hyoid bone when it acts in conjunction with the thyro-hyoid, the latter muscle elevating the larynx when the hyoid bone is fixed. When, in the act of swallowing, the hyoid bone and thyroid cartilage have passed suddenly upwards and forwards, their original position is restored by the action of the infra-hyoid muscles. In the utterance of low notes the larynx and hyoid bone descend below the natural level, in the direction of the sternal muscles; while in the utterance of high notes there is little elevation of the