MUSCLES OF THE XOSE. 269 12, depressor laMi inierioris ; d, points to the cut ends of tlie levatores menti; 13, placed on the left masseter, points to tlie buccinator ; 13', buccinator, of the right side, a portion of the parotid duct passing through the muscle ; 14, levator anguli oris, seen also on the left side behind the zygomaticus minor. The remaining references ^Yill be given under the muscles of the neck. inserted nuder cover of tlie orbicularis muscle into the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage. It will be described along with the muscles of the orbit. Tarh'tles.—The muscles of this group are not subject to gi-eat variation. The external fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum sometimes extend fai-ther than usual, and take more intimate attachment to the corrugator supercilii. or blend mth the zygomaticus minor or levator labii superioris. The tensor tarsi is not unfrequently divided into two parts. Actions.—Tiie orbicularis palpebrarum closes the eyelids. In the ordinary closure of the eye, it is chiefly the upper lid which moves, being depressed by the superior half of the palpebral j)art of the muscle ; but in forcible closure both eye- lids move, and not only come together, but are dra-^-n towards the nose, at the same time that the eyebrows are dravvTL do^Tiwards and inwards, and the neigh- bouiing skin of the face thrown into v\Tinkles, the whole fibres of the orbicularis ])eing thus contracted and di-awn towards the tendo palpebrai-um. In these circumistances the fibres which form the tensor tarsi, being contracted like the others, compress the lachrymal sac, and prevent the introduction into it of the lachry- mal secretion from the conjunctiva. The coiTugator muscles draw the skin of the forehead downwards and inwards, producing longitudinal furrows, as in frovi-ning. The upper eyelid is supported by the levator palpebrje, and di-oops when that muscle is paralysed. On the other hand, paralysis of the orbicularis is attended by an inability to close the eyelids. MUSCLES OF THS IsOSE. Under this head may be conveniently grouped not only the com- pressor naris and smaller muscles which act upon the nose alone, but also the pyi^amidalis nasi which acts on the forehead, and the commoR levator of the nose and lip. The pyramidalis nasi, continuous with the innermost fibres of the frontalis muscle, extends downwards from the root of the nose, over the upper part of it, and terminates by a tendinous expansion in connection with the compressor naris muscle. The muscles of ojDposite sides, united superiorly, diverge slightly as they descend. The compressor na^ris^ a thin triangular muscle, arises narrow and fleshy from the canine fossa in the superior maxillary bone, and pro- ceeding inwards, gradually expands into a thin aponeurosis, which is partly blended with that of the corresponding muscle of the opposite side, and with the pyramidalis nasi, and is partly attached to the cartilage of the nose. It is concealed at its origin by the proper elevator of the lip, and is crossed by the common elevator. The levator labii supericids alssqus nasi, the common elevator of the lip and nose, lies along the side of the nose, extending fi-om the inner margin of the orbit to the upper lip. It arises by a pointed process from the upper extremity of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, as it descends, separates into two fasciculi; one of these, n^uch smaller than the other, becomes attached to the wing of the nose, whilst the other is prolonged to the upper lip', where it is blended with the orbicularis and the special elevator musclCo It is