189 TEAPEZIUS. LATISSBIUS DOESI. Fig. 163.—Superficial T>Iuscles of the TnrxK, Shoulder a:sD Hip, vietved from BEHIXD. (A.T.) I a, external occipital protuberance ; o, acromicn of the scapula ; c, crest of tlie ilium ; 1, trapezius ; 1', oval tendon of the tvro muscles in tlie upper dorsal and lovrer cervical region ; 1", triangular tendon of insei-tion ; 2. latissimus dorsi; 2', 2/ its costal origins and its direct origin from the crest of the ilium ; 1, 2', c, the posterior layer of the lumoar aponeurosis ; 3, sterno-mastoid ; 4, deltoid ; 5, infraspinatus ; 6, teres minor ; 7, teres major ; 8, rhomlDoideus major ; below this on the left side is seen a triangular space bounded by the rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus doi'si muscles, in which a part of the seventh rib may be felt; on the left side, the arm and shoulder being elevated, the space is enlarged so as to show a part of the sixth and seventh ribs ; 9, back jDart of the external oblique muscle of the abdomen ; between 9 and 2', a small part of the internal oblique ; 10, part of the gluteus medius covered by the fascia lata ; 11, gluteus rnaximus ; 12, gracilis ; 13, small part of the adductor magnus ; 14, semitendinosus ; 15, biceps ; 16, fascia lata covering the vastus externus. spine, and for the distance of several vertebrse above and below tliat point, a flat tendon extends outvv'ards, widest at the middle of the space and narrowing towards the upper and lower ends, so that the apo- neuroses of the two muscles taken together have an elliptical form. The fibres of origin from the occipital bone have little or no tendinous lustre. The muscles of the two sides have together the form of a four- sided figure, or shawl or cowl, pointing downwards : hence the name of cucullaris which has been given to it. JRclatioJis.—The trapezius is superficial in its v^'hole extent : it covers the splenius, the greater part of the complexus above the splenius. the levator angnli scapulas, the rhomboidei. the supraspinatus, and small portions of the infra- spinatus, latissimus dorsi. and lumbar aponeurosis. Tlie spinal accessory nerve, and the superficial cervical artery, pass into it from its deep surface. VfU'ieties.—The trapezius is subject to considerable variations in its attach- ments : it is not unfrequently shorter than above described, and the number of dorsal vertebrte vrith which it is connected is sometimes diminished to six or seven, or even fewer. Its occipital attachment is occasionally wanting ; and sometimes a separation exists l^etween its cendcal and dorsal portions, in the same manner as in some of the rodent animals. These varieties affect either one or both sides. The latissimus dorsi muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the spinous processes of the six or seven lowest dorsal vertebras, and from the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, through the medium of which it is attached to the lumbar and u]3per sacral spines and back part of the iliac crest ; it also arises by fleshy fibres for an inch or more fi'om the iliac crest in front of the outer margin of the lumbar aponeurosis, and from the last three or four ribs by narrow fleshy slips which inter-digitate with the attachments of the external oblique mus- cle of the abdomen. The fibres at the upper part are the shortest, and pass almost horizontally outwards over the lower angle of the scapulaj from which they generally receive a small slip of fleshy fibres ; those lower down become longer and pass more obliquely upwards ; finally, those which are attached to the ribs ascend almost vertically. By this convergence the fibres of the muscle come to form a naiTow band of some thickness, which, accompanying the teres major towards the . axilla, winds round the lower and outer border of that muscle so as finally to be placed in front of it. It terminates in a flat tendon of about two inches in length, which is adherent at its lower border to that of the teres major, but is again detached from it previous to its insertion, a synovial bursa intervening between them. The tendon is attached to the