DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. 339 following tlie whole course of the inguinal canal, in the manner of the hernia above described, the visciis in this case is protruded from the Fig. 236. Fig. 236.—Internal View of the Vessels eelated to the Groin. A portion of the wall of the aLdo- men and pelvis of the left side, seen from behind. 1, symphysis of the pubis; 2, irregvilar surface of the hip-bone separated from the sacrum ; 3, ischial spine ; 4, ischial tuberosity ; 5, obturator internus ; 6, rectus, covered with an elongation from 7, fascia transversal is ; 8, fascia iliaca covering the iliacus muscle ; 9, psoas magnus cut ; 10, iliac artery; 11, iliac vein; 12, epigastric artery and its two accompanying veins; 13, vessels of the spermatic cord, entering the abdominal wall at the internal ring the vas deferens joining them from below ; 14, two obturator veins ; 15, the obliterated umbilical artery. abdomen to the groin directly through the lower end of the canal^ at the external abdomi- nal ring. At the part of the abdominal wall through which the direct inguinal hernia finds its way, there is recognised on its posterior aspect a triangular interval, Fig. 237. Fig. 237.—A Direct Inguinal Her- nia ON THE Left Side, covered BY THE Conjoined Tendon of the Internal Oblique and Trans- versalis Muscles. 1, aponeurosis of the external ob- lique ; 2, internal oblique turned up ; 3, transversal is muscle ; 4, fascia transversalis ; 5, spermatic cord ; 6, the hernia. A small part of the epi- gastric artery is seen through an opening made in the transversalis fascia. the sides of which are formed by the epigastric artery, and the margin of the rectus mus- cle, and the base by Poupart's ligament. It is commonly named the triangle of Hessel- bach. Through this space the hernia is protruded, carrying before it a sac from the fossa of the peritoneum internal to the obliterated hypogastric artery; and it is in general forced onwards directly into the external abdominal ring. The coverings of this hernia, taking them in the order which they are successively applied to the protruded viscus, are the following:— 3 2