275 MUSCLES OF THE OEBIT. MUSCLES OP TKS ORBIT. In this group tviU be described seven muscles, namely, the elevator of the upper eyelid before referred to, and six muscles of the eyeball, viz., the four straight and the two oblique muscles. Of these muscles, the inferior oblique alone is confined to the fore part of the orbit; all the others take their origin at its back part, and pass longitudinally forwards to their insertion in front. The levator palpebrEs superioris is a slender muscle, which arises^ pointed and tendinous, above and in front of the margin of the optic foramen, and, passing forwards over the eyeball, ends in a fibrous expansion inserted into the anterior surface of the tarsal cartilage of the upper eyelid. Relations.—Between this muscle and the roof of the orbit are situated the fourth and frontal nerves and the supraorbital vessels, and beneath it are the superior rectus muscle and the globe of the eye. In the lid, it is placed behind the palpebral ligament, close to the membrana conjunctiva. The four straight muscles of the eye surround at their origin the optic nerve, and, passing forwards fi'om that point, are inserted into the front of the globe of the eye at four opposite equidistant parts, by delicate expanded tendons which become blended into one at their termination. The superior rectus arises close in front of the foramen opticum, and beneath the levator palpebrse; the inferior rectus, internal rectus, and external rectus are united in a common tendinous attach^ ment around the circumference of the optic foramen, except above. But the external rectus differs from the others in having two heads of origin: the upper head unites with that of the superior ]-ectus, the- second head arises from the common tendon and from a bony point on the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure close to its wider inner end ; and intermediate fibres proceed from a fibrous band between the heads of origin. The four recti thus attached posteriorly, pass for- wards, one above, one below, and one on each side of the eyeball, becoming flattened as they lie in contact with it, and are inserted by short membranous tendons into the fore part of the sclerotic coat, at. an average distance of four lines from the margin of the cornea. In length and breadth there are some differences among these muscles. The external rectus exceeds the internal one in length. On the other hand, the internal rectus is the broadest, and the superior the narrowest of all. Between the heads of the external rectus is a naiTOw interval, which gives transmission to- the third and sixth nerves and the nasal branch of the fifth nerve, with the ophthalmic vein. The superior oblique or trocMearis is a narrow elongated muscle,, placed at the upper and inner part of the orbit, internally to the levator palpebr£e. It arises about a line in front of the inner part of the optic foramen; thence it proceeds towards the internal angle of the orbit, and terminates in a round tendon which passes through a fibro-carti- laginous ring or pulley (trochlea) attached to the fovea trochlearis of the frontal bone ; it is there reflected outwards and backwards, and - passes between the eye and the superior rectus to be inserted into the sclerotic coat midway between the superior and external recti muscles, nearly equidistant from the cornea and the entrance of the optic T 2