205 BICEPS FLEXOE COITL inserted mt<5 a supracondylar process. Tiie roiddle division of the ninscle is niosu consiau: in inan : but is generally accompanied by a part of the third : the mnscnlo-cutaneous nerre passing betTveen ihem. The first and third constitute the most marked varieiies in man. and all three are found in various forms and degrees of development in dinerent animals. The intemal brachial ligament of Stnithers is a fibrous band connected vdth the inferior part of this muscle. (John Wood, on Hum. 3Iusc. Variations. >^':c., Joiim. of Anat. vol. i. p. 45.) Fig. 17'2.—Deep view of thu ^IrscLES OF the Eight Shoel- PEK AND APv3I, FKOM BEFOEE. (A. T.) i a, h, outer half of the divided davicle ; c, coraeoid process : d, upper, ande, lower triangidai'sj)ace left at the upper and lower aisgies of the scapula on its anterior sur- face to which the serratus magnus is attached ; /, great tuberosity of the humerus ; [/, sarface of the humerus beloAv the bicipital gi'oove; Ji, outer, and /, inner condylar eminence of the hum ems; 1, cut coraeoid head, and 1', cut glenoid tendon of the biceps mus- cle ; 2, folded tendon of insertion of the pectoralis major, ct which one portion is seen running up to the bieii-ital groove ; 3, lower cut end of the deltoid; 4,coraco-brachi- ahs ; 5, subscapidaris ; 5', its insertion into the lesser tuberosity; 6, teres major; 6', its insertion behind and below the latissimus dorsi ; 7, part of the latissimus dorsi; +, sHp from the inferior angle of the scapula ; 7', insertion of the tendon, after windiag round the teres major, in front of and higher than tiiat muscle ; 8, S', brachiahs anticus ; 9, long head of the triceps, at the upper part> seen in the inter^'al between the teres major and subscapidaris muscles ; 9', inner head ; 10, flexor communis digitoriun pro- fundus ; 11, tendon of insertion of the biceps. The loiceps ilescr ciiMti muscle has two heads of ori.a'iii: one of these, the internal or short head, arises conjointly wirh the coraco- brachialis from the coraeoid process of the scapnla by a rendon which is soon continued into muscle : the other, the long head, arises by a rounded tendon from the upper border of the glenoid fossa and glenoid ligament, within the capsule of the shotilder-joint, and this tendon, passing ove]* the head of the humerus, leaves the joint by the bicipital groove, gradually enlarging into the fleshy head as it descends. The two muscular heads, lying side by side, then unite to form an elongated and thick belly, occupying the middle and lower part of tlie arm : a