513 THOEACIC LYMPHATIC GLAXDS. they may be named the anterior medmsBial glands. Between the intercostal muscles and in the line of the heads of the ribs on the side of the spine is a set of glands, named intercostal, which receive the lymphatics from the thoracic parietes and the pleura; their efferent ducts communicate freely with each other and open into the thoracic duct. Three or four cardiac lymphatic glands lie behind the aortic arch, and one before it : and another cluster, varying from fifteen to twenty in number-;, is found along the oesophagus, constituting the msovhageal glands. The hronchicd (jlands, ten or twelve in number, are Fi- 025. Fig. 325. —Lymphatic Ves- sels OF THE Head and Neck and op the Upper Part of the Trunk (from Mascagni). \ The chest and pericar- dium have been opened ou the left side, and the left mamma detached and thrown outwards over the left arm, so as to expose a great part of its deep surface. The principal lymphatic vessels and glands are shown on the side of the head and face, and in the neck, axilla, and medias- tinum. Between the left internal jugular vein and the common carotid artery, the upper ascending part of the thoracic duct marked i, and above this, and de- scending to 2, the arch and last part of the duct. The termination of the upper lymphatics of the dia- phragm in the mediastinal glands, as well as the cardiac and the deep mam- mary lymphatics, are also shown. of much larger size than those just men- tioned. The largest of these occupy the interval between the right and left bronchi at their divergence, whilst others of smaller size rest upon the first divisions of these tubes for a short distance within the lungs. In early infancy their colour is pale red; towards pubertv,, we find them verging to grey, and studded with dark spots ; at a more advanced age they are frequently very dark or almost black. In chronic diseases of the lungs they sometimes become enlarged and indurated, so as to press on the air-tubes and cause much irritation. They are frequently the seat of tuberculous deposits. The deep lymphatics of the thoracic wails are divisible into two sets, the sternal and the intercostal. The sternal lymphatics, com- mencing in the muscles of the abdomen, ascend between the fibres of the diaphragm at its attachment to the ensiform cartilage, and continue VOL. I. T T