BONES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 94 area, bounded by lines which, proceeding from the sides of the head, pass upwards and converge in the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones opposite the middle of tlie carpal extremitj^ and in tiie fifth towards its inner side. The licads or digital extremities articulate with the proximal phalanges. Their smooth, rounded surfaces are broader, and extend further on the palmar than on the dorsal aspect of the bones ; and on the sides pre- sent hollows and elevations for the attachment of ligaments. The cavjKd extremity presents distinctive peculiarities in each meta- carpal bone. That of the first has only one articular surface, concave from before backwards, and convex from side to side, which articulates with the trapezium ; and posteriorly a rough prominence, to which the ■extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis is attached. The second presents a transversel}" concave surface which receives the trapezoid bone ; on the radial side it articulates by a small facet on its posterior part with the trapezium, on the ulnar side with the third metacarpal bone, and by a narrow facet wedged between the third metacarpal and trapezoid bones, with the OS magnum. The third bone articulates superiorly with the •OS magnum, and on the sides with the contiguous metacarpal bones : :at its posterior and outer angle it forms a projection upwards. The fourth articulates principally with the unciform bone above, but also by a narrow facet with the os magnum ; on its radial side are two small surfaces, and on the ulnar side one, for articulation with the adjacent metacarpal bones. The fifth articulates superiorly with the unciform bone by means of a concave surface inclined slightly out- Avards, and externally with the fourth metacarpal bone, while on its ulnar side it presents a rough and prominent tuberosity. From tlie proximal position of its epi- physis, the metacarpal bone of the thumb has been considered by AVinslow and some other anatomists, as a phalanx of the first row, and the bone which it supports a phalanx of the middle row. Fig. 80.—Right Hand seen from behind. (A. T.) 1 The indications are tlie same as in the pre- ceding figure. THE DIGITAL .PHALANGES. The digital phalanges, or internodla, are fourteen in number ; three for each finger, except the >lhumb, w^hicli has only two. Those of the first roiv are slightly curved like the metacarpal bones. Their dorsal surfaces are smooth and transverse!}^ convex ; the palmar are flat from side to side, and bounded by rough margins, which give insertion to the fibrous sheaths of the flexor tendons. Their proximal extremities are thick, and articulate each by a transversely oval concave surface with the corresponding metacarpal bone. Their distal extremities, smaller and