537 THE OPHTHALMIC GANGLION. between the outer rectus muscle and the optic nerve, and generally in contact with the ophthalmic artery; it is joined behind by branches from the fifth, the third, and the sympathetic nerves; while from its fore part proceed the ciliary nerves to the eyeball. Union of the ganglion with neeves : its roots.—The posterior border of the ganglion receives three nerves. One of these, the long roof, a slender filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic trunk, joins the upper part of this border. Another branch, the short root, much thicker and shorter than the preceding, and sometimes divided into two parts, is derived from the branch of the third nerve to the infe^-ior oblique muscle, and is connected with the lower part of the ganglion. The third root is a very small nerve which emanates from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and reaches the ganglion with the long upper root: these two nerves are sometimes conjoined before reaching the ganglion. Other roots have been assigned to the ganglion. (Valentin, in BIidler's Archiv. for 1840.) The ganglion is sometimes very small, probably from the nerve cells being distributed along the nerves which are connected with it. Branches of the ganglion.—From the fore part of the ganglion arise ten or twelve delicate filaments—the short ciliary nerves. These nerves are disposed in two fasciculi, arising from the upper and lower angles of the ganglion, and they run forwards, one set above, the other below the optic nerve, the latter being the more numerous. They are accompanied by filaments from the nasal nerve (long ciliary), with which some are joined. Having entered the eyeball by apertures in the back part of the sclerotic coat, the nerves are lodged in grooves on its inner surface ; and at the ciliary muscle, which they pierce (some filaments supplying it and the cornea), they turn inwards and ramify in the iris. II. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The superior maxillary nerve, or second division of the fifth cranial nerve, is intermediate in size between the ophthalmic and the inferior maxillary trunks. .It commences at the middle of the Gasscrian ganglion, and, passing horizontally forwards, soon leaves the skull by the foramen rotundum of the sphenoid bone. The nerve then crosses the spbeno-maxillary fossa, and enters the infraorbital canal of the upper maxilla, by which it is conducted to the face. After emerging from the infraorbital fora- men, it terminates beneath the elevator of the upper lip in branches, which spread out to the side of the nose, the eyelid, and the upper lip. Branches.—Near its origin a recurrent branch passes to the dura mater and middle meningeal artery. In the spheno-maxillary fossa a temporo-malar branch ascends from the superior maxillary nerve to the orbit, and two spheno-palatine branches descend to join Meckel's ganglion. Whilst the nerve is in contact with the upper maxilla, it furnishes two posterior dental branches on the tuberosity of the bone, and an anterior dental branch at the fore part. On the face are the terminal branches already indicated. Orbital brasicli.—The orbital or temporo-malar branch, a small cutaneous nerve, enters the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two branches (temporal and malar), which pierce the malar bone, and are distributed to the temple and the prominent part of the cheek.