THE IXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. crossing behind it, and the vena cava, resulting from tlie union of the two others, being on the right side of the artery at its upper end. Varieties.—Tlie jjlace oj division of these arteries is subject to great variety.. In two thirds of a large number of cases, it ranged betvv^een tlie middle of the last lumbar vei-tebra and the upper margin of the sacrum ; in one case out of eight it was above, and in one case out of six it was below that space. Most frequently the left artery was found to divide lower down than the right. (R. Quain.) The length varies in most instances between an inch and a half and three inches, but it has been seen in some rare cases less than half an inch, and as long as four inches and a half. In one instance recorded by Cruveilhier, (" Anat. descript." v. iii., p. 186,) the right common iliac artery was wanting, and the internal and external vessels of that side arose as distinct branches from the aorta. Branelies.—The common iliac artery often gives off a small unnamed branch to the lymphatic glands, the ureter or the psoas muscle, and sometimes even a larger branch—a renal artery, a lumbar, or tlie ilio-lumbar. SUBGICAL AITATOMY 07 THE COMMON ILIAC ABTERY. The common iliac artery may be reached in an operation by dividing the abdominal muscles in the iliac region. The incision may be made, beginning above the middle of Poupart's ligament, and running parallel with that structure towards the anterior superior spine of the ilium, thence curving for two inches towards the umbilicus. In cutting through the muscles, care is to be taken of the deep epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries, and especially of the peritoneum,, which, with the subperitoneal fascia and the adherent ureter, are to be carefully stripped from the iliac and x^soas muscles till the artery is reached. The delicate sheath is then scraped through and the ligature applied. INTEE^AL ILIAC AUTEEY. The internal iliac artery (art. hypogastrica,) extends from tlic bifur- cation of the common iliac artery towards the sacro-sciatic foramen, near which it divides into branches. It is usually about an inch and a half in length, and is smaller than the external iliac in the adult, but the reverse in the foetus. At its origin, the artery lies near the inner border of the psoas muscle : lower down, it rests against part of the pyriform muscle. Behind it are situated the internal ihac vein, and the communicating branch which passes from the lumbar to the sacral plexus of nerves : in front it is crossed by the ureter, which separates it from the peritoneum. Beanches.—The branches of the internal iliac artery, though con- stant and regular in their general distribution, vary much in their origin. They arise, in most instances, from two principal divisions of the parent trunk, of which one is anterior to the other. From the anterior division arise the superior vesical (connected with the pervious portion of the foetal hypogastric artery), the inferior vesical, middle haemorrhoidal, obturator, internal pudic, and sciatic arteries, and also, in the female, the uterine and the vaginal arteries. The posterior division gives ofp the gluteal, the ilio-lumbar, and the lateral sacral arteries. Varieties.—Length.—The internal iliac artery has been found as short as half an inch, and sometimes as long as three inches, but it is not often less than