ADVEETISEMENT. vi treated of in a distinct chapter, originally written by Mr. Quain, but this is now incorporated, in substance at least, with the description of those Muscles and Bloodvessels to which it has special reference. It will be further noticed that the description of the Bones and Muscles has undergone considerable change, that in both of these sections a short account of the Morphology has been introduced, and that in that on the Muscles the varieties have been more fully described than in the previous Editions. The whole of this volume has been edited by Dr. Thomson, in association with Mr. David N. Knox, M.B., Demonstrator of Anatomy in the University of Glasgow, and assisted by Mr. H. Clarke in the description of the Bloodvessels, and by Dr. Gowers in that of the Cranial Nerves. In the Second Volume the section on General Anatomy and the chapters on the Heart, the Eespiratory, Yocal, Digestive, and Urinary Organs, and the Organs of the Senses, have been revised throughout, and in certain parts re-written by Dr. Sharpey, in association with Mr. Schafer, by whom, it is right to state, the task has in large measure been performed. The Section on General Anatomy vv'as completed and printed off in October, 1874. The account of the Brain and Spinal Cord has been carefully revised with especial regard to intimate structure, by Dr. Gowers, Assistant Physician to University College Hospital. Lastly, Dr. Thomson, who has revised the description of the Eeproductive Organs, has contributed a chapter on Embryology, with which the second volume concludes. In this it has been his object to give, in such a form as is suited to an elementary work on Human Anatomy, a short general view of the Development of the Embryo, and of the Forma- tion of the Membranes and the Placenta; and with this there is now brought together into one place the special history of the Development of the Several Organs of the Body which in the previous Edition was distributed throughout the work. Yvliile due reference has been made to the leading authorities