MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 246 The extensor longus digitorum pedis arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia ; from the head and the anterior narrowed part of the inner surface of the fibula in front of Fig. 191. the interosseus membrane, for about three- fourths of its length ; from a small part of 'IS' / fill the interosseus ligament at its upper part; also from the aponeurotic septa intervening between it and the muscles on each side, and from the fascia of the leg. The tendon diyides into four slips, which descend through the lower part of the annular ligament, in the same sheath as the peroneus tertius, and on the dorsum of the foot pass respectively to the four outer toes. The three inner tendons are each joined at the outer side, on the first phalanx, by a tendon from the extensor brevis digitorum. All the four ten- dons are continued into expansions, which are joined on the first phalanx by tendinous processes from the liimbricales and interossei muscles; they divide into three parts, their iliillilli will middle fibres being inserted into the second phalanx, while their lateral parts unite to- gether and are inserted on the thirds in a manner exactly similar to the arrangement of the extensor tendons of the fingers. 12 Fig. 191.—Muscles op the Leg and Foot froji BEFORE. (A. T.) I; 1, tendon of the rectus femoris ; 1', Hgamentum pa- tellge ; 2, vastus externus ; 3, vastus internus; 4, sar- torius ; 5, fascia lata cut near the place of its insertion at the knee ; 6, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 7, inner part of the soleus; 8, tibialis anticus ; 8', itsj tendon near the insertion ; 9, extensor longus pollicis ; 9', its tendon ; 10, extensor communis digitorum longus ; 10', anterior annular ligament; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis ; 13, peroneus tertius ; 13', its tendon at its insertion ; 14, origin of the extensor com^ munis digitorum brevis, the first head of which is seen, passing to the great toe near the line from 9'. Relations.—It is in contact internally with the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis, and externally with the peronei muscles. It rests upon the external tuberosity of the tibia, the an- terior surface of the fibula, the lower end of the tibia, the front of the ankle-joint, and the extensor brevis digitorum. The anterior tibial nerve passes obliquely beneath its'upper part. Varieties.—This muscle varies considerably in the mode and place of insertion of its various tendons. The tendons to the second and fifth toes may be found doubled, or extra slips are frequently given off from one or more tendons to their coiTesponding- metatarsal bones or to the short extensor, or to one of the interossei muscles. The peroneus tertius muscle arises below the extensor longus