THE SPIXAL NEEVES. 574 DoESAL Nerves.—The external "branclies increase in size from above downwards. They are directed through or beneath the longis- shnus dorsi to the space between that mnscle and the iho-costalis and accessorius ; they supply both those muscles, together with the small muscles continued upwards from the erector spin^e to the neck, and also the levatores costarum. The lower five or six nerves give cuta- neous twigs, which are transmitted to the mtegiiment in a line with the angles of the ribs. The internal "branclies of the upper six* dorsal nerves appear in the interval between the multifidus spinse and the seraispinalis dorsi ; they supply those muscles, and become cutaneous by the side of the spinous processes of the vertebroe. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve, and sometimes otliers, reach as far as the scapula. The internal branches of the lower six dorsal nerves are placed between the multi- fidus spina3 and longissimus dorsi, and end in the multifidus without giving branches to the integument. Where cutaneous nerves are sup- plied by the internal branches, there are none from the external branclies of the same nerve, and vice verm. Lumbar Nerves.—The external branches enter the erector spinse, and give filaments to tlie intertransverse mnscles. From the upper three, cutaneous nerves are supplied ; and from the last, a iiiscicuhis descends to the corresponding branch of the first sacral nerve. The cuianeous nerves given from the external branches of the first three lumbar nerves, pierce the fleshy part of the ilio-costalis, and the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi: they cross the iliac crest near the edge of the erector spime, and terminate in the mtegument of the gluteal region. One or more of the filaments may be traced as far as the great trochanter of the femur. The internal "branches wind backwards in grooves close to the articu- lar processes of the vertebra, and sink into the mulifidus spmce muscle. Sacral Nerves.—The posterior division of the nerves, except the last, issue from the sacrum through its posterior foramina. The first three are covered at their exit from the bone by the multifidus spmse muscle, and bifurcate like the posterior trunks of the other spinal nerves ; but the remaining two, which continue below that muscle, have a peculiar arrangement, and require separate examination. The internal "branches of the first three sacral nerves are small, and are lost in the multifidus spinse muscle. The external branches of the same nerves are united with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, so as to form a series of anastomotic loops on the upper part of the sacrum. These branches are then directed outwards to the cutaneous or posterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where, covered by the gluteus maximus muscle, they form a second series of loops, and end in cuta- neous nerves. These pierce the great gluteus muscle in the direction of a line from the posterior iliac spine to the tip of the coccyx. They are commonly three in number—one is near the innominate bone, another opposite the sacrum, and the third about midway betw^een the other two. All are directed outwards over the great gluteal muscle. In six dissections by Ellis this arrang-ement was found to be the most fre- quent. The variations to which it is liable are these :—the first nerve may not take part in the formation of the second series of loops, and the fourth may be associated with them.