THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE. 617 External or short saphenoiis nerve.—The cutaneous brancli of the internal popliteal nerve (ramus communicans tibialis) descends along the leg- beneath the facia, resting on the gastrocnemius, in the furrow between the heads of the muscle, to about midway between the knee and the foot. Here it perforates the fascia, and a little lower down is usu.ally joined by a branch from the external popliteal nerve (communicans peronei). After receiving this communicating branch, the external saphenous nerve descends beneath the integument near the outer side of the tendo Achillis in company with the short saphenous vein, and tm-ns forwards beneath the outer malleolus to end in the skin at the side of the foot and on the little toe. On the dorsum of the foot this nerve communicates with the musculo-cutaneous nerve. In many cases, the external saphenous nerve supplies the outer side of the fourth toe, as well as the little toe. The union between the saphenous nerve iind the branch of the external popliteal nerve occurs in some cases higher than usual, occasionally even at or close to the popliteal space. It sometimes happens that the communication between the nerves is altogether wanting ; in which case the cutaneous nerve to the foot is generally continued from the branch of the internal popliteal nerve. Posterior Tibial Henre.—The internal popliteal nerve receives the name of posterior tibial at the lower margin of the popliteus muscle. It passes down the leg with the posterior tibial artery, lying for a short distance at the inner side of the vessel and afterwards at the outer side ; the artery inclining inwards from its origin v/hile the nerve continues its straight course. In the interval between the inner mal- leolus and the heel, it divides into the two plantar nerves (internal and external). The posterior tibial nerve, like the accompanying vessels, is covered at first by the muscles of the calf of the leg, after- wards only by the integument and fascia, and it rests upon the deep- seated muscles. Lateral branches.—The deep muscles on the back of the leg and the integument of the sole of the foot receive branches from the poste- rior tibial nerve in its course along the leg. a. The muscular hranclies emanate from the upper part of the nerve, either Separately or by a common trunk ; and one is distributed to each of the deep muscles, viz., the tibialis posticus, the long flexor of the toes, and the long flexor of the great toe. The branch which supplies the last-named muscle runs along the peroneal artery before penetrating the muscle. b. A calcaneo-plantar cutaneous branch is furnished from the posterior tibial nerve ; the plantar part perforates the internal annular ligament, and ramifies in the integument at the inner side of the sole of the foot, and beneath the heel. Internal Plantar STerve.—The internal plantar, the larger of the two nerves to the sole of the foot, into which the posterior tibial divides, accompanies the internal or smaller plantar artery, and supplies nerves to both sides of the three inner toes, and to one side of tlie fourth. From the point at which it separates from the posterior tibial nerve, it is directed forwards under cover of the first part of the abductor of the great toe, and passing between that muscle and the short fiexor of the toes, it gives off the internal cutaneous branch for the great toe, and divides opposite the middle of the foot into three digital branches. The outermost of these branches communicates with the external plantar nerve.