390 THE SUBCLAVIAN AETekY. When the superficial cervical is separated from the posterior scapular, it some- times arises from other sources than the thyroid axis, as from the suprascapular or the subclavian artery. Fig. 258. Fig. 258,—Dissection op the right side OP THE anterior ThORACIC AND AB- DOMINAL AYall, to show the Anasto- moses OP the Internal Mammary. Intercostal, and Epigastric Vessels (slightly altered from Tiedemann), (A. T.) i The pectoral part of the serratus mag- nu3, the external and internal oblique, and the rectus abdominis muscles, have been removed ; 1, upon the subclavius muscle, points to the first part of the axillary artery above the pectoralis minor muscle, giving rise to the acromio-thoracic artery, which is cut short ; 2, upon the pectoralis minor, points to the lower part of the axillary artery and vein ; 3, the long thoracic artery ; 4, on the cartilage of the first rib, marks the upper part of the internal mammary artery ; 4', the lower part of the same artery giving its abdominal branch behind the cartilage of the seventh rib ; 5, in the fourth intercostal space, marks the anastomosis of the internal mammary and intercostal arteries ; 6, anterior branches of the internal mam- mary artery ramifying over the front of the sternum ; 7, on the transversalis muscle immediately above the internal inguinal aperture, points to the last part of the ex- ternal iliac artery, from which are seen rising, 8, the deep epigastric ai'tery, and 9, the deep circumflex iliac ; 10, the anas- tomosis of the epigastric with the abdomi- nal branch of the internal mammary artery ; 11, the spermatic cord and sper- matic twig of the epigastric artery ; 12, the femoral artery ; 13, the femoral vein ; 14, a lymphatic gland closing the femoral ring. 3.—Internal Mammary Ar- tery. — The internal mammary artery, remarkable for its length and the number of its branches, arises from the under side of the subclavian, opjoosite the thyroid axis. It runs forwards and down- wards behind the clavicle to the inner surface of the cartilage of the first rib, lying between this and the sac of the pleura : from this point it inclines a little inwards, and then descends vertically behind the costal cartilages, a sho t distance from the border of the sternum, as far as to the interval between the sixth and seventh cartilages, where it ends by dividing into two branches. One of the