AETICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 182 ligament or fibrous plate ; and each of the cayities is lined by a synovial membrane. Movements.—In the mechanism of the foot three arches are distinguishalole, two of them longitudinal and one transverse ; all of them capable of being- flattened somewhat by pressure from above, thus securing elasticity. The inner arch is formed by the os calcis, astragalus, scaphoid, and three cuneiform bones, together with the three inner toes, the head of the astragalus being the key- stone, and is supported by the inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The outer arch is formed by the os calcis, cuboid bone, and two outer toes, and is supported by the strong inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligaments. Thus the calcaneo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid ligaments are stretched by the whole weight of the body bearing down upon the arch, and prevent the too great flattening of the instep ; an action in which they are assisted, however, by the plantar aponeurosis. The transverse arching of the foot is most marked in the line of the tarso-metatarsal articulations, and is maintained by the wedge-shape of the bones and by the plantar ligaments. The weight of the body, falling upon the balls of the toes when the heel is raised, tends to spread out the metatarsal bones at their distal extremities, and to flatten the transverse arch, which recovers its position when the pressure is removed. Between the astragalus and the calcaneum only one kind of motion is possible, the centre ©f which is the interosseous astragalo- calcaneal ligament, and is of such a nature, that when the posteiior pai-t of the OS calcis slides inwards and upwards beneath the astragalus, its cuboid extremity moves downwards and outwards. A certain amount of gliding movement is alsa allowed between the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and that most considerably between the cuboid bone and outer toes. Thus it happens that if the foot is bent up against the leg, and then is gradually extended by force applied to the toes, as by the action of the flexores digitorum muscles, the first part of the movement is accomplished at the ankle, and consists of extension, with only a slight inward turning of the toes ; further extension is accomplished by move- ment between the calcaneum and. astragalus, and is accompanied by depression of the outer edge of the foot; and after that a little more extension, accom- panied by more considerable depression of the outer edge of the foot, is effected at the tarso-metatarsal articulations. The direction of the movement of exten- sion of the toes at the metatarso-phalangeal articulations is upwards and out- wards, so that although the great toe is in a line with the inner edge of the foot when resting on the ground, it is no longer so when over-extended.