253 FLEXOE MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. It is covered at the upper part by the soleus and inferiorly by the aponeui'osis of the leg-. Upon it also lie the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Varieties.—A second head of origin has not unfreqiiently been found. This may arise from the- outer tuberosity of the tibia, or from the fibula, or from the fascia of the leg-. This second head has been seen joining the accessorius or even replacing it (Otto). Gies describes an accessory slip from the tibialis anticus, which joined the flexor digitorum at the ankle. Kfexor dlgiti secund'iijrovvius was found by Bahnsen, arising from the back of the tibia. Fig. 196.—Second Latek of Plantar Muscles, 1, tendon of the Sexor longus pollicis muscle, emerging behind from its sheath below the sustentaculum tali, and passing deeper than, 2, the tendons of the deep common flexor ; 3, two heads of the flexor accessorius ; 4, the four lumbricales ; 5, tendon of the flexor brevis cut short and seen splitting to allow the passage through it of the tendon of the long flexor ; 6, flexor brevis poUicis ; 7, flexor breads minimi digiti ; there is also represented on the cater side of the foot the tendon of the peroneus longus winding round the cuboid bone. Intimately connected with the tendon of the flexor longus digitornm are the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles, which, although they occupy the foot, ma y be most conveniently de- scribed in this place. The flexor accessorius arises by two heads, the internal and larger of which is fleshy, and is attached to the inner surface of the calcaneum, while the external, flat, narrow, and tendinous, is attached to the plantar surface of the cal- caneum a little in front of the external tubercle, and to the ligamentum longum plant^e. Those origins united form a muscular mass which is inserted into the external border and upper and lower surfaces of the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum. The lumbricales muscles, four in number, arise from the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum at their point of division, each being, with the exception of the most internal, attached to two tendons. They pass forward to the inner sides of the fotu' outer toes, each muscle ending in a tendon, which is inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendon on the dorsum of the first phalanx of the toe. Belat'wns.—In the sole of the foot the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, together with the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales, are covered below by the flexor bre\-is digitorum ; the plantar nerves and hinder part of the external plantar artery being placed between. These tendons, with then additional mus- cles, conceal the adductor pollicis, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, the transversus pedis, the interossei muscles, and the plantar arterial arch. The flexor longus pollicis pedis, or flexor hallucis muscle, arises from the lower two-thirds of the posterior surface of the fibula, except for an inch at its lowest part; from the intermuscular septum between it and the peronei; and from the aponeurosis common to it and the flexor longus digitorum, which covers the tibialis posticus. The mus- cular fibres, passing obliquely backwards and downwards, end in a tendon on the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon traverses a grooYe on the lower end of the tibia, at the back of the astragalus and