Fig. 218. to the mammillary process of DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TEUIS^K costse muscle ; 11, 11, three rotatores region, and are distinguished by being more nearly horizontal than the rest. Each arises from the upper and back part of the transverse pro- cess, and is inserted into the vertebra next above, at the inferior margin and on part of the surface of the lamina, as far as the root of the spinous process. Intertransversales.—The intertransversales are short muscies passing nearly vertically from vertebra to vertebra between the trans- verse processes. They are most developed in the cervical, and least in the dorsal region. Beneath each cervical transverse process there are two such muscles, one descending from the anterior, and another from the posterior part of the process. In the lumbar region there are like- wise two sets : one set, the interiransversales laierales, lie between the transverse processes, and are in series with the levatores costarum ; the other set, intertransversales mediales or interaccessorii, pass from the accessory process of one vertebra the next, and are in series with the intertransversales of the dor- sal region Fig. 218. — View of the Deep Pos- terior Muscles of the Upper Part OF THE Vertebral Column. (A. T ) ^ a, posterior occipital protuberance ; h, surface between the superior and in- ferior curved lines on which the com- plexus is inserted ; c, spinous process of the axis vertebra; d, transverse pro- cess of the atlas ; e, transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra ; /, lamina of the sixth dorsal vertebra; 1, rectus capitis posticus minor muscle ; 2, rectus posticus major; 3, obliqtius superior; 4, obliquus inferior; 5, rectus capitis lateralis ; 6, trachelo-mastoid, the mus- cle of the right side turned inwards and its slips of attachment to the dorsal and cervical transverse processes separated from each other; 7, transversalis cer- vicis, the figures are placed near the extreme ends of the muscle on the right side ; 7', on the left side, longissimus dorsi ; 8, cervicalis ascendens, the muscle of the right side is spread out; 8', on the left side, the seven vipper tendinous insertions of the ilio-costalis and accessorius muscles ; 9, upper part of the semispinalis colli of the left side ; 10, placed on the seventh rib of the right side close to the insertion of its levator vertebrarum between the third and sixth dorsal vertebrje. Interspinales.—The inter= spinales are short vertical fasci- culi of fleshy fibres, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebrie. They are best marked in the neck, where they are