277 MUSCLES OF THE OEBIT. Nerves.—Five of the muscles of the orbit, viz., levator palpehr^e snpe- rioris. the snpGrior, internal, and inferior recti and the inferior oblique,, are under the influence of the third pair or common oculo-motor nei-ve ; the external rectus is supplied by the sixth pair, or abducent ocular, and the supeiior oblique hj the fourth pair, or trochlear nerve. From what is stated hereafter as to the action of the muscles, it will appear that in all the consentaneous movements of direction of the tvro eyes muscles are in action vhich receive their motor neiwes from tvo different sources. Actions.—The levator palpebrce superioris is. as its name implies, simply an elevator of the upper eyelid, acting- in this as the antagonist of ihe upper pal- pebral part of the orbicularis muscle. The eyeball is so situated in the structures which surround it in the orbit that it is capable of free motion on a central fixed point: but it does not appear to shift its place as a whole within the orbit, nor to undergo perceptible change of form from the action of the muscles. The position of the point roimd which the movements of the eteball take place is nearly in the centre of curvatm-e of the posterior wall, and from half a Une to a line behind the middle of the antcro- posteiior axis of the eyeball. The movements of the eyeball may be conveniently reduced to fottr kinds, ^-iz., 1, simple lateral movements in a horizontal plane : 2, simple movements of eleva- tion or depression ; 3, oblique movements of elevation or depression, and 4, movements of rotation. In the first two kinds the vertical meridian of the eye is not subject to any change of inclination : in the third kind the movements of direction are accompanied by a small amoimt of rotation or inclination of the vertical meridian to one or other side ; and in the fourth kind, when simple, the whole movement is one of inclination of the ver*tical meridian. These movements however, unless perhai^s the first, are seldom simple, but more frequently different kinds are combined together. The three first kinds constitute the various move- ments of direction by which the visual axis is turned vithin ceilain limits to various points in space; the extent of motion being about 90^ in the veiiical and IGO^ in the horizontal direction. Simple movements of rotation do not appear to occur to any considerable extent, and it has been ascen;ained by experiment that they do not, as was supposed by Ilueck and others, maintain the eyeballs in a fixed position during inclined movements of the head In these different movements the six muscles of the eyeball may aavan- tageously be considered as acting in three pairs. 1st. In the horizontal move- ments the internal and external recti muscles are the sole agents, the one acting as an adductor and the other as an abductor ; and this movement they effect without any rotation, their line of action being exactly in the horizontal plane of the eyebaU. 2nd. It is different with the superior and inferior recti; for while these muscles imdoubtedly are respectively the most direct elevators and de- pressors of the cornea, they have both a tendency, from the line of their action being to the inside of the centre *of motion of the eyeball, to produce inward direction with a small amount of rotation. This tendency is corrected by the association of the oblique muscles in all upward and downward movements ; the inferior oblique being associated vrith. the superior, and the superior oblique with the inferior rectus muscle. The simple action of the superior oblique muscle, when the eye is directed straight forward, is to produce a movement of the cornea downwards and outwards, that of the inferior oblique to direct the cornea upwards and outwards, and in both with a certain amount of rotation, though in different directions in the two cases. But these movements caused by the oblique muscles are precisely those which are required to neutralise the inward direction and rotatory movements produced by the superior or the inferior rectus, and accordingly, by the combined action of the superior rectus and the inferior oblique muscles a straight upward movement is effected, while a similar effect in the downward direction results from the combined action of the inferior rectus and superior oblique muscles. It has been frrrther shown that in all the oblique movements of direction a combination takes place of the action of the oblique with that of the recti muscles. Here, however, two recti muscles are in action and are as'sociated with one obUque muscle; as, for example, in tho upward and inward direction, the