MORrHOLOGY OF THE BONES OF THE LIMBS. 126. towards the tail. To these borders of tlie limbs. Huxley and Flower have given the names of preaxial and postaxial respectively, as indicating their position before and behind the axis of the limbs. "Wlien at a somewhat later stage of development, the divisions of the limbs make their appearance, and more especially when the quinquifid division of the digits in the hand and foot becomes percep- tible, it is obvious that the thu.mb and radius in the one limb, and the great toe and tibia in the other, occupy corresponding cephalic and preaxial situations ; and it is not difficult to trace from these the corresponding relations of the parts in the upper division of the limbs ; and thus the radial condyle of the humerus with the great tuberosity are preaxial, while the lesser tuberosity, ulnar condyle, ulna, and little finger are postaxial. In the lower limb, the lesser trochanter, internal condyle, tibia and great toe are preaxial, while the great trochanter, external condyle, fibula, and lesser toe, are postaxial. And at the same time the dorsal or extensor surface of the limbs becomes external, and the ventral or flexor surface becomes internal. Fig. 112.—Lateral view of THE Human Embryo of ABOUT SEVEN WEEKS, SHOW- ING THE Rudimentary Limbs in their seoond Position. (A. T.) ]\1ag- NIFIED 7 DIAMETERS. preaxial or radial and pollex border of the thoracic limb ; u, its postaxial or ulnar and little finger border; t, preaxial or tibial and hallux border of the pelvic limb ; /, its postaxial or fibular and little toe border. Very soon, however, in the higher animals and in man, farther changes operate in bringing about the permanent form. First, there is the eversion of the humerus so as to place the radial condyle outwards, and the inversion of the femur so as to place the tibial condyle inwards. In the upper limb of man, the radius being in semipronation, no material change occurs in the position of the hand, the thumb hanging naturally forward ; but in animals, destined to rest on the palmar aspect of the hand or digits, important changes occur in the position of the radius by which, as this bone is brought forward upon the humerus, and its lower end carried inwards, the manus or its elements are placed permanently in the prone position, with the first or radial digit inwards. In the foot no such change is required, as already by the internal rotation of the femur at its upper part, the conditions for plantar support have been secured, and the fii-st or tibial digit is on the inner side. Further, in man, as the body attains its full development, both limbs are extended in a line parallel to the axis of the trunk, the upper dropping loosely from the shoulder-joint with the greatest freedom of motion ; the lower more closely articulated in the hip-joint, and suited to give firm support to the body in the erect posture. It is proper to mention here a very ingenious view of the homologies of the limbs which has been suggested by Martins, according to which the humerus is to be regarded as virtually twisted upon itself to the extent of 90° at the neck, and 90° more from that part downwards, or to the extent of 180° in its whole length. By this torsion, Martins accounts for the deviation of the external condyle of the humerus from the original or typical position which he considers to remain in the femur, and thus he endeavours to show, and it must be admitted with some appearance of probability, how, by supposing the humerus to be untwisted, an exact correspondence of the surfaces and borders can be established between the humerus and femur. Gegenbaur has adopted this view, and has added some facts in illustration of it. (Ch. Martins, " Nouv.