TEMPORAL BONE. 89 twisted on itself so as to present an outer and inner surface, and a sharp upper and lower border. The superior margin is thinner, and prolonged further forward than the inferior. The bevelled extremity is serrated, and articulates with the malar bone. At its base the zygomatic process presents two roots. The anterior root is a broad convex ridge, directed inwards. The posterior root passes backwards, and is divided into two parts, of which one turns inwards in front of the meatus externus, while the other;, gradually subsiding, is continued backwards over that opening, and marks behind it the line of union of the squamous and mastoid portions of the bone. At the point of division of the two roots is a slight tulercle, which gives attachment to the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw. Between the two roots is the gJejioid fossa^ a depression elongated from without inwards, and which, together with the cylindrical elevation formed by the anterior root of the zygoma in front of it, is coated with cartilage, and forms the concavo-convex surface which articulates with the lower jaw. The fissure of Glaser separates this articular part of the glenoid fossa from the remain- ing part behind, which is formed by the tympanic plate of the petrous division of the temporal bone, and lodges a part of the parotid gland. The mastoid portion is rough externally for the attachment of muscles, and is prolonged downwards behind the aperture of the ear into a nipple-shaped projection—the mastoid p^ocess. This process has on its inner side a deep groove, the digastric fossa, which gives attach- ment to the digastric muscle; and internal to that is the slight occipital groove, for the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion is marked by a deep sigmoid depression, which is part of the groove of the lateral sinus. A passage for a vein, of very variable sizes the mastoid foramen, usually pierces the bone near its posterior margin^ and opens into the groove. Fig. 35.—The Hight Temporal Bone from BELOW. (A. T.) I The indications where marked are the same as in the preceding figures. 14, is at the apex of the petrous "bone in the upper opening of the carotid canal ; 17, aqueduct of the cochlea ; 21, lower rough surface of the petrous bone ; 22, the lower opening of the carotid canal ; 23, the small foramen of Jacohson's nerve ; 24, the jugular depression, and within it, 25, the foramen of Arnold's nerve ; 26, st}do-mas- toid foramen—the figure is placed in the ante- rior part of the digastric groove ; 27, groove of the occipital artery ; 28, place of the anterior opening of the osseous Eustachian canal. The petrous portion is named from its hardness. It contains the organ of hearing. It forms a three- sided pyramid, with its base directed outwards, one surface looking down- wards, and the other two turned towards the interior of the skull. Inferior surface, lase, and ojpex.—k% Mie base is the aperture of the