560 THE CEANIAL NEEVES. were in tlie descent of tlie heart from the neck to the thorax. The recurrent direction may therefore be accepted as evidence of the development of those nerves before the occurrence of that descent. The passag-e of one recurrent laryngeal nerve round the subclaviasi artery, and of the other round the aorta, arises from the orig-inally symmetrical disposition in which the innominate and subclavian arteries on the right side and the arch of the aorta on the left are derived from corresponding arches. The supply of the back of the stomach by the right pneumo-gastric nerve, and of the front by the left nerve, is connected with the originally symmetrical condition of the alimentaiy canal, and the turning over of the stomach on its right side in its subsequent growth. Branches.—Some of its branches serve to connect the pneumo- gastric with other nerves, and others are distributed to the muscular substance or the mucous lining of the organs which the nerve supplies. The principal connecting branches of this nerve are derived from the ganglia. In the different stages of its course branches are supplied to various organs as follows. In the jugular foramen, a branch is given to the ear ; in the neck, branches are furnished successively to the pharynx, the larynx, and the heart; and in the thorax, additional branches are distributed to the heart, as well as to the lungs and the oesophagus. Terminal branches in the abdomen are distributed to the stomach, liver, and other organs. Connecting- branches and auricular branch.—Connections hetmeen tlie ujjper ganglion of the vagus nerve and the spinal accessory, glosso-pharyngeal and sympa' thetic nerves.—The connection with the spinal accessory is effected by one or two filaments. The filament to the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal is directed transversely ; it is not always present. The communication with the sympathetic is established by means of the ascending branch of the upper cervical ganglion. The auricular hranch is continued to the outer ear. Aiising from the ganglion of the root, this branch is joined by a filament from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and then tm-ns backwards along the outer boundary of the jugular foramen to an opening near the styloid process, Next, it traverses the substance of the temporal bone, crosses the aqueduct of Fallopius about two lines from the lower end, and, reaching the surface between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, is distributed to the integument of the back of the ear. On the surface it joins with a twig from the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerves. Connections of the second ganglion with tlie hypoglossal, sympathetic, and spinal nerves.—This ganglion is connected by filaments wdth the trunk of the hypo- glossal, with the upper cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and with the loop formed between the first two cervical nerves. Pharyngeal branch.—The pharyngeal branch arises from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve. In its progress in- wards to the pharynx this nerve crosses in some cases over, in others under, the internal carotid artery ; and it divides into branches, which, conjointly with others derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, the superior laryngeal, and the sympathetic nerves, form a plexus {pharyngeal) be- hind the middle constrictor of the pharynx. From the plexus branches are given to the muscular structure, and to the mucous membrane of the pharynx. As the pharyngeal nerve crosses the carotid artery, it joins filaments which the glosso-pharyngeal distributes on the same vessel.— There is sometimes a second pharyngeal branch. Superior pharyngeal branch.—This nerve springs from tJie middle of the ganglion of the trunk of the pneumo-gastric nerve. It is directed