IXTEEOSSEOUS MUSCLES. 223 between wliich it is placed, but most extensively from that support- ing the finger upon which it acts, and the fibres converge pennately Fig. 1S2. Fig. 153. Fig. 1S2.—The Right Hand feo^i behind, showixg the Doesal interosseous Muscles, f Tlie tendons of tlie extensor nmscles have been removed as far as the distal ends of the metacarpal bones. 1, 2, 3, and 4, the dorsal interossei muscles, in order from the radial side inwards ; their expanded insei-tion in connection vdth the extensor tendons, is shown upon the first phalanges. Fig. 1S3.—The HicxHT Hand fro:*! before, showing the Palmar Interossei Muscles. 3 1, 2, 3, refer to the first, second, and third palmar interosseous muscles. to a common tendon in the middle. Each terminates in a tendon, which is inserted partly into the base of the first phalanx, and partly into the tendon of the common extensor muscle on the dorsum of the same part of the finger. Two dorsal interossei are inserted into the middle finger and draw it to either side ; of the remaining muscles one passes to the radial side of the index-finger, and the other to the ulnar side of the ring-finger ; they withdraw those fingers from the middle line of the hand. The first dorsal interosseous muscle or adductor mdicis is larger than the others ; its outer and larger head of origin arises from the proximal half of the ulnar border of the first metacarpal bone, the inner is attached to the whole length of the second metacarpal bone, and be- tween these heads there is left superiorly an interval wider than in the other dorsal interosseous muscles. Pidations.—Between the heads of the abductor indicis the radial artery passes forwards to the palm of the hand ; between those of the other dorsal interossei small perforating- arterial branches are transmitted. The three palmar interossei muscles are adductors, drawing the index, ring, and little fingers towards the middle line of the ha«nd. They are visible only from the palmar aspect of the hand, each one arising from the concave part of the body of the metacarpal bone of the finger on which it acts : they terminate, like the dorsal muscles, in small