THE CERVICAL PLEXUS. 577 CERVICAL PLEXUS. The cervical plexus is formed by tlie anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves, and distributes branches to some of the muscles of the neck, and to a portion of the integument of the head and neck. It is placed opposite the first four vertebrsg, beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle, and rests against the middle scalenus muscle and the levator anguli scapula. The disposition of the nerves in the plexus is easily recognised. Each nerve, except the first, branches into an ascending and a descending part: and these are united in communicating loops •with the contiguous nerves. From the union of the second and third nerves, superficial branches are supplied to the head and neck ; and from the junction of the third with the fourth, arise the cutaneous nerves of the shoulder and chest. Muscular and communicating branches spring from the same nerves. The BRANCHES of the plexus may be separated into two sets—a superficial and deep; the superficial consisting of those which ramify over the cervical fascia, supplying the integument and some also the platysma ; the deep comprising branches which are distributed for the most part to the muscles. The superficial nerves may be subdivided into ascending and descending; the deep nerves into an internal and external series. Superficial AscENDiNa Branches. Superficial cervical nerve.—This nerve takes origin from the second and third cervical nerves, turns forward over the sterno-mastoid muscle about the middle, and, after perforating the cervical fascia, divides beneath the platysma myoides into two branches, which are dis- tributed to the anterior and lateral parts of the neck. a. Tlie ujpper hvaiicli gives an ascending" twig which accompanies the external jngular vein, and communicates freely with the facial nerve (cervico-facial division) ; it is then transmitted through the platysma to the surface, supplying that muscle, and ramifies in the integument of the upper half of the front of the neck, filaments reaching as high as the lower maxilla.' &. The lower branch likewise pierces the platysma, and is distributed below the" preceding, its filaments extending in front as low as the sternum. The superficial cervical nerve may arise from the plexus in the form of two or more distinct branches. Thus Valentin describes three superficial cervical nerves, which he names superior, middle, and inferior. (" Sommerring v. Bau," ,&c.) While the superficial cervical nerve ramifies over the platysma myoides, the facial nerve is beneath the muscle. According to Valentin many anastomotic arches are foraied on the side of the neck between those two nerves, as well as between the branches of the former, one with another Great auricular nerve.—This nerve winds round the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and is directed obliquely upwards beneath the platysma myoides, between the muscle and the deep fascia of the neck, to the lobe of the ear. Here the nerve gives a few small branches to the face, and ends in the auricular and mastoid branches. a. The auricular tranches are directed to the back of the external ear, on which they ramify, and are connected with twigs derived from the facial nerve. One of these branches reaches the outer surface of the ear by a fissure between the antihelix and the concha. A few filaments are supplied likevrise to the outer part of the lobule. VOL. I. p p