65 NASAL CAVITIES AXD AIR SINUSES. hind by the dorsum sella3. The lateral part on each side, formed by the great wing of the sphenoid, the squamous part, and the anterior surface of the petrous part of the temporal, lodges the temporal lobe of the brain. The foramina of the middle fossa are the foramen opticum, the sphenoidal fissure, foramen rotundum, foramen ovale, foramen spinosum, foramen lacerum anterius, and hiatus Fallopii. The posterior fossa, deeper and larger tuan tbe others, extends back to the occipital protuberance, and lodges the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. The occipital bone and the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone take part in its formation. In the posterior surface of the pars petrosa, which limits this fossa anteriorly on each side, is the internal auditory meatus ; lower down is the foramen lacerum posterius; between that and the foramen magnum is the anterior condylar foramen. Grooves for Bloodvessels.—The groove of the middle meningeal artery commences at the foramen spinosum of the sphenoid bone, and ramifies principally on the squamous portion of the temporal bone and on the parietal. The groove of the internal carotid artery lies on the side of the body of the sphenoid bone, and terminates inside the anterior clinoid process. The groove of the superior longitudinal sinus, com- mencing at the foramen coecum, passes backwards in the middle line of the roof of the skull, and terminates at the internal occipital protuber- ance. From that point the grooves of the lateral sinuses pass outwards on the occipital bone, cross the posterior inferior angles of the parietal bones, descend on the mastoid portions of the temporal bones, run inwards again on the occipital, and turn forwards to terminate at the jugular foramen. The groove of the inferior petrosal sinus lies between the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the basilar process ; that of the superior petrosal sinus extends along the superior angular edge of the petrous portion. THE NASAL CAVITIES AND COMMUNICATING AIR SINUSES. The nasal cavities, or fossae, are placed one at each side of a median vertical septum. They open in front and behind by the anterior and posterior nares already described, and communicate by foramina with the sinuses of the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and superior maxillary bones. Their vertical extent, as well as that from before backwards, is considerable, but their transverse width is very limited, especially in the upper part. The internal lucill, or septum narium, is formed principally by the central plate of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, the frontal spine, the rostrum of the sphenoid bone, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones. It presents a great angular deficiency in front, which in the recent state is filled up by the septal cartilage. In very many cases it deviates from the middle line, and more frequently to the left than to the right side. The roof is horizontal in its middle part, but sloped downwards be- fore and behind. The middle part is formed by the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, the fore part by the frontal and nasal bones, and the back part by the sphenoidal spongy bone. The/o(?r, formed of the palate plates of the maxillary and palate bones, is smooth, and concave from side to side. Towards its anterior extremity is the superior orifice of the incisor canal. VOL. I. F