PLANTAR FASCIA. 255 from the adjacent mnscles, which covers it. The muscular fibres end in a strong flat tendon, which, passing between the tibia and the long flexor of the toes, turns forwards in a groove beneath the internal malleolus, and is inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. From its insertion, offsets of the tendon are prolonged forwards to all the cuneiform bones, to the os cuboides, and to the bases of the gecond, third, and fourth metatarsal ]3ones; and one thin process is directed backwards to the sustentaculum tali. The tendon is covered by a synovial membrane behind the malleolus. Close to its insertion, where it lies against the astragalus, it contains a sesamoid fibro- cartilage, which is occasionally converted into bone. jRclations.—The tilDialis posticus is concealed in great part by tlie apon'^rosis prolonged over it from the muscles on either side. Superiorly, where it is^not covered by these muscles, it supports the posterior tibial and peroneal vessels. Varieties.—These are rare. Several anatomists have described an occasional muscle, which arises from the back of the tibia below the flexor digitoiiim, and is inserted into the capsule of the ankle-joint or into the ligamentum cruciatum. This is the tensor of the capsule of the ankle-joint of lienle and Linhart, or the tibialis secundus of Bahnsen. Nerves.—The gastrocnemius, plantarls, soleus, and popliteus, are supplied with branches from the internal popliteal nei've. The flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus pollicis and tibialis posticus derive their nerves from the posterior tibial. THE PLANTAR FASCIA AND MUSCLES. The superficial fascia of the sole of the foot resembles that of the palm of the hand. It forms a thick cushion, especially over bony pro- minences, and consists mainly of small lobules of fatty tissue iDound down by numerous fibrous bands which pass vertically from the skin to the deep fascia. The deep plantar fascia, which is remarkably strong, is composed of dense white glistening fibres, the greater number of which are arranged in a longitudinal direction, and extend from the under surface of the OS calcis forwards to the heads of the metatarsal bones. It presents a central and two lateral portions, clearly marked off from each other by two strong intermuscular septa, indicated on the surface by grooves. The inner portion, thinner and looser than the others, invests the abductor pollicis, and is often partly removed with the skin in dissec- tion. It is continuous round the inner border of the foot with the dorsal fascia and with the internal angular ligament. The outer part covers the abductor minimi digiti, and is much stronger, particularly between the outer tubercle of the calcaneum and the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, between which points it forms a strong ligament. It is continuous round the outer border of the foot with the dorsal fascia, and sends a thin prolongation forwards over the insertion of the abductor and the short flexor of the little toe. The central 'portion, like the corresponding part of the palmar fascia, is narrow behind, and becomes wider and thinner towards the toes. At the back, where it is thickest, the fascia is attached to the inner tubercle on the under surfice of the calcaneum immediately behind the origin of the flexor brevis digitorum, with . which muscle it is closely connected. Nearly opposite the middle of the metatarsal bones, this fascia, becoming broader and thinner as it advances, begins to divide into five processes, one for each of the toes; and from this point forwards to the base of the toes, numerous strong