185 GEraEAL MOEPHOLOGT OF THE MUSCLES. for a man of 150 lbs. weight: skeleton, 27 lbs.; muscles, 63 lbs. ; viscera (with skin, fat, blood, &c.), 60 lbs. General Morpholog-y.—It cannot be doubted that the disposition of the muscles, as a whole and in groups, originallv bears a close relation to the plan of vertebrate organization in the skeleton. This is very perceptible in the earlier stages of foetal development and in the lowest vertebrate animals. In fishes especially, and partly in amphibia, the muscles present a remarkable degree of vertebrate segmentation, the greater part of the muscles of the trunk being subdivided into zones, or myotomes, by partitions or sclerotomes, partly bony and partly caitilaginous or membranous, which extend transversely through the walls of the trunk, and which correspond in number and position with the vertebral and costal segments. In the higher animals and in man, together with the greater specialization of muscles in connection with the development of limbs, great deviations from the primitive muscular type in the trunk have occurred, and it becomes extremely difificult to trace the moi-phological relations of the rest of the muscles in the axial part of the body. It is indeed only in the deeper muscles of the vertebral column and of the libs that the vei-tebrate subdivision and relation remain in any degree apparent. In the more super- ficial muscles, and more especially in the muscles of the limbs, where the direc- tion of the fibres is generally outwards from the trunk, portions of the myotomes run together so as to form muscles of greater or less length, and in which all appearance of vertebrate division is effaced. In then: more general relations also to the tmnk of the body two sets of the muscles may be distinguished as epaxlal and liypaxial (episkeletal and hyposkeletal of Huxley), according as the.y lie above or below the embryonic veilebral axis and the plane of its lateral extension. The Itypaxial muscles, comparatively little developed in man. com- prise chiefly the prevertebral muscles of the neck with the psoas and pjTiiormis, Of the ejyaxial muscles a dorso-lateral di^'ision consists mainly of the long and short erector muscles of the spine and head : while a ventro-lateral division con- sists both of such ventral longitudinal muscles as genio-hyoid, stemo-hyoid. and recti abdominis, and of the lateral, obliquely directed, sterno-mastoid, scalene, intercostal, and abdominal muscles. The muscles of the limbs are also primarily derived from this great ventro-lateral muscle. They may be distinguished as extrinsic when attached partly to the limbs and pai-tly to the tiimk, and as 'intrinsic when wholly attached to the bones of the limbs and their arches. To these morphological relations further reference will hereafter be made under the several large divisions of the muscles. (See Humphry, " Obsel'^'ation3 in Myology," &c., 1872. and in various papers in the Joum. of Anat. ; Huxley, Anat, of Yeii:eb. Animals,"' and Mivart, *' Lessons in Elementary Anatomy."' Varieties.—It follows from what has been stated above, that homologous correspondence can be traced between the indi^'idual m±uscles and groups of muscles of man and those of animals. But as the form and attachments of the muscles are subject to very great variations in different animals, as well as to occasional varieties in the same species, the determination of the special homo- logies is attended in many cases with great difficulty, and is stiU very imperfect. Many varieties have also been observed in the human body, and it is interesting to notice that these varieties are found to reappear generally in the same form, cr in modifications of it which indicate relations to a typical or fundamental structure; and that many of them are thus more or less repetitions of forms known to exist in dift'erent species of the lower animals. (Consult John Wood in Proceedings of Roy. Soc. 1864:-7, and Turner and others in Joum. of Anat. & Physiol. ; Macalister's Instmctive Catalogue of Muscular Anomalies, in Trans. Roy. Irish Acad., 1872, and other papers ; Hallet, in Edin. Med. Joum., 1815 ; AVenzel Gruber, in Mem. of the Petersburg Acad.) FASCIiE. ^ The term Fascia is applied to pai'ts presenting a membranous dispo- sition of reticulated or felted fibrous tissue. These structures have usually been distinguished as the superficial and the deep; the former consisting of looser and finer material, and passing by their slenderer