335 AXATOMY OF INGUINAL HEEXIA. may blend with or even take the place of parts of the subjacent muscles, or they ::iiay be enormously developed as compared with the other layers, or lastly, the whole layer may be aborted. (See the works of Humphry and Mivart, as quoted at p. 185.) THE SURGICAL Al^ATOMY OF HESI^I.^. In connection with the description of the fascise and muscles forming the walls of the abdomen, it is desirable to introduce a short account of the anatomical relations of the various kinds of abdominal hernige. These hernial protrusions are chiefly of three kinds, inguinal, femoral, and umbilical The last-named, however, which occurs at the umbilicus, inasmuch as it presents relations by no means intricate, need not be more than mentioned in an anatomical work. An inguinal hernia following the course of the spermatic cord from the cavity of the abdo- men, and a femoral hernia coming through the crural canal at the inner side of the femoral vessels, have important anatomical relations which must be studied with the greatest attention. INGUINAL HERNIA. The ingnisial canal, through which the spermatic cord passes from the cavity of the abdomen to the testis, and through which an inguinal hernia also passes, begins at the internal abdominal ring, and ends at the external one. It is oblique in its direction, being parallel with and immediately above the inner half of Poupart's ligament; and it measures two inches in length. The external ring is immediately over the crest of the pubis, and the internal is opposite the middle of Poupart's liga- ment. In front the canal is bounded by the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle in its whole length, and at the outer end by the fleshy part of the internal oblique also ; behind it, is the fascia transversalis, Fig. 232.—The Aponeurosis op the External Oblique Muscle and THE Fascia Lata. 1, the internal pillar of the ab- dominal ring ; 2, the external pillar of the same (Poupart's ligament) ; 3, transverse fibres of the aponeurosis ; 4, i)ubic part of the fascia lata ; 5, the spermatic cord ; 6, the long saphenous vein ; 7, outer part of the fascia lata. together with, towards the inner end, the conjoined ten- don of the two deeper abdomi- nal muscles. Above, the canal is bounded by the arching lower borders of the internal oblique and transversalis mus- cles, while below, it is sup- ported by the broad surface of Poupart's ligament, which separates it from the sheath of the large blood-vessels de- scending to the thigh, and from the femoral canal at the inner side of Fig. 232.