375 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY In the neck the internal carotid artery gives usually no branch. While within the carotid canal it sends a small offset to the tympanum, which anastomoses with the tympanic and stylo-mastoid arteries. Within the cavernous sinus some small branches proceed from it to supply the walls of the sinus and the adjacent dura mater. Opposite the anterior clinoid process, the internal carotid gives oflF the ophthalmic artery; and at the Sylvian fissure of the brain, before dividing into the anterior and middle cerelral arteries, it gives off or is joined by the posterior communicating artery, a slender anastomotic branch which unites the internal carotid with the posterior cerebral branch of the basilar artery. 1. Ophthalmic Artery.—This artery, arising from the internal carotid artery by the side of the anterior clinoid process, enters the orbit by the foramen opticum, below and to the outer side of the optic nerve. It soon changes its direction, passing over the nerve to reach the inner wall of the orbit, along which it runs forwards, and terminates in branches which ramify on the forehead and side of the nose. Branches.—(a) The laclimyral artery, arising- on the outer side of the optic nerve, passes forwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland, in which the greater number of its branches are distributed. Some of the branches pass onwards to the eyelids and conjunctiva, joining with other palpebral branches; and one or two delicate malar branches pierce the malar bone and reach the temporal fossa, where they join branches from the deep temporal arteries. The lachrymal artery has also branches of communication through the sphenoidal fissure with small offsets from the middle meningeal artery. (h) The central artery of the retina, a very small vessel, pierces the sheath and substance of the optic nerve about a quarter of an inch behind its junction with the eyeball, and runs imbedded within it to the retina, in which it ramifies in minute branches. In the foetus, a very delicate vessel passes forwards through the vitreous humour, to reach the posterior surface of the capsule of the crystal- line lens. (^;) The supraorhital branch ascends above the muscles, and coursing forwards to the supraorbital notch, in company with the frontal nerve, terminates on the forehead. It distributes branches to the eyelids, and communicates with the temporal artery. (^) The ciliary arteries are divisible into three sets, viz., short, long, and anterior ciliary. The sliort ciliary arteries, varying from twelve to fifteen in number, enclose the optic nerve as they pass forwards to reach the posterior aspect of the sclerotic coat, which they pierce, and enter the eyeball about a line or two from the entrance of the optic nerve. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, also enter the back of the eyeball, and then pass forwards, one on each side, between the choroid and sclerotic coats, as far as the ciliary ligament, where they divide into branches. The anterior ciliary arteries are derived from some of the muscular branches; they form a vascular circle around the fore pai-t of the eyeball, and then pierce the sclerotic within a line or tv/o of the margin of the cornea. All these ciliary arteries anastomose together within the eyeball, their distribution in which wiU be particularly described with the anatomy of the eyeball. (e) The muscular branches, subject to much variety, usually arranged in an upper and lower set, supply the muscles of the orbit. (/) The ethmoidal branches are two in number, a posterior and an anterior. They pass through the posterior and anterior internal orbital foramina, the latter in company with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve ; and both