Fig. 157.—Ligaments of the Foot, seen from Fig. 157. transverse) ligaments ; 11, 11, anterior transverse TARSAL AETICULATIONS 175 Bones one with another.—The astragalus is connected with the calcaneum by two synovial articulations, viz., by a posterior one pecu- liar to those two bones, and by an anterior one common to them with the scaphoid bone. The following are the principal parts requiring description. Astragalo-calcaneal ligaments.—The interosseous ligament, broad and strong, passes vertically downv.ards from the groove between the anterior and posterior articular surfaces of the astragalus to the similar groove between the corresponding articular surfaces of the calcaneum. A membranous posterior ligament connects the posterior border of tlie astragalus with the upper surface of the calcaneum ; its fibres are oblique and very short. There is also an external ligament, consisting of a slight fasciculus of fibres, which descends perpendicularly from the outer surface of the astragalus to the outer side of the calcaneum, parallel with the middle division of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint. It may be further observed, that those portions of the lateral ligaments of the ankle-joint which pass down over the astragalus to the OS calcis assist in uniting these two bones. BELOW. (A. T.) i 1 and 2, portions of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle-joint ; 3, calcaneo-cuboid or long plantar ligament ; 3', deep or short part of the same ; 4, plantar calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; 5, three scaphoido- cuneiform ligaments of the internal, middle and ex- ternal cuneiform bones; G, is placed upon the external cuneiform bone, to\va.rds which is seen coming from behind a cuboido-cuneiform ligament ; 7, is placed upon the internal cuneiform bone ; from 6 and 7, are seen passing downwards the plantar-cuneo-metatarsal ligaments ; x , part of the first dorsal cuneo-metatarsal ligament ; 8 and 9, ligamentous fibres jjrolonged from the cuboid bone and sheath of the peroneus longus muscle upon the outer metatarsal bones ; 10, 10, be- tween these figures the posterior interraetatarsal (or metatarsal ligament, continued across the four meta- tarsal spaces ; 12, intersesamoid ligament; 13, 13, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral metatarso-digital ligaments ; 14, 14, between these figures are seen the five pairs of internal and external lateral digital (phalangeal) liga- ments of the first series ; those of the second series have no figure placed to mark them ; 15, inferior liga- ment of the phalangeal articulation of the great toe. Calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. — The calcaneum and scaphoid bone are not in contact, but they are connected by two ligaments. The inferior or jplantar liga- ment, much the larger of the two, is a broad band whicli passes for- wards and inwards from the fore part of the calcaneum (susten- taculum tali) to the inferior surface of the scaphoid bone. It is in contact inferiorly with the tendon of the tibialis posticus muscle, while superiorly it forms the floor of the articular cavity which receives the head of the astragalus, and is lined by synovial membrane. The external, dorsal, or interosseous ligament, forms the external boundary