MOEPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL. 73 whicli it joins the body of the jaw being about 150^. During- the first year osseous union takes place at the symphysis between the segments of the jaw. In this and subsequent years the body becomes deeper, thicker, and longer, the ramus and the neck of the condyle lengthen, and the angle at which the ramus joins the body becomes less obtuse, till in the adult it is nearly a right angle. In old age, consequent upon the loss of the teeth and the absorption of the alveolar margin, the body becomes shallower, and the angle is again increased. The hyoid bone has five points of ossification—one for the body, and one for each of its great and small cornua. The ossification begins in the great cornua and body in the last month of foetal life. Ossification of the small cornua , begins in the first year, but osseous union with the body only occurs after middle life. The stylo-hyoid ligaments are occasionally ossified in some part of their extent. GENERAL MORPHOLOaY OF THE BONES OP THE HEAD. The circumstances which contribute most to modify the form of the human skull and the condition of its component bones, as compared with that of animals, are—1st, the proportionally large size of the brain and the corresponding expansion of the cranial bones which enclose it; 2nd, the smaller development of the face as a whole, and especially of the jaws, which brings the facial bones almost entii-ely under the fore part of the brain-case, instead of in front of it, as occurs in all animals, with the partial exception of the anthropoid apes ; and 3rd, the adaptation of the human skeleton to the erect posture, which, as regards the head, is attended with the sudden bend of the basicranial axis at a consider- able angle upon the line of the erect vertebral column ; and along with this the advance of the occipito-vertebral ai-ticulation to such an extent as to make the head nearly balanced on the upper extremity of the spine. The downward openings of the nostrils, the forward aspect of the orbits and eyes, the neaiiy vertical fore- head, and more or less oval-shaped face, are accompaniments of these human peculiarities in the form of the head, which, together with those ah-eady men- tioned, strongly contrast with the smaller cranium and its strong crests of bone, the larger projecting face and jaws, and the other characteristic features of the skull in most animals. As regards the condition of the individual bones, it is further to be remarked that there is generally in the human skull a more complete consolidation or bony union of the osseous elements than in animals, so that the whole number of bones forming the cranium and face is least in man. Thus, to mention only some of the most marked examples of this difference among mammals ; the frontal bone and the lower jaw frequently divided into two lateral portions; the premaxillary very generally a separate bone from the maxillary ; the presphenoid in many separate from the postsphenoid : the interparietal from the occipital ; the reduction in size of the squamosal, and its occasional separation from the petrous ; the increase in the proportions of the tympanic portion or bulla; and the very frequent development of bony elements connecting the hyoid bone directly with the skull. It is also worthy of observation that some of the conditions now referred to as peimanent in animals exist as transitory stages of develop- ment in the foetus of man. Homolog-ies.—It would be out of place in this work to enter at any length into the consideration of the homologies of the bones of the human skull,—a subject which would require a minute reference to embryology and a wide range of comparative anatomy. But as it may be useful at least to show the bearing of such homological views on human anatomy, there has been introduced here a dia- grammatic figui-e of the bones of the foetal head (see fig. 64) and a table of their nomenclature, in which an attempt is made to indicate the morphological relations of the several bones to each other and to those of quadrupeds, and an explanation is given of the signification of some of the terms applied by comparative ana- tomists to these bones in connection with the names usually given to them in works on human anatomy. For fuller information on this subject the reader is referred to the works of Owen, Goodsir, Huxley, Flower, St. Geoi-ge Mivart, and others ah-eady quoted.