THE INFERIOE VENA CAYA. 494 a,—The middle sacral yein, taking its course upwards on the front of the sacrum, opens into the left common iliac vein, or into the com- mencement of the vena cava. t,—The lumbar veins correspond in number with the arteries of the same name : they commence by small posterior branches in the muscles of the back ; and by others from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric and other veins in the neighbour- hood. Having reached the spine, they receive branches from the s]mial plexuses, and proceed forward upon the bodies of the vertebra, behind the psoas muscle: those on the left side passing behind the aorta, terminate in the back of the vena cava. Some of these veins are frequently found to unite into a single trunk before their termina- tion. The lumbar veins of the same side communicate with each other by branches which cross in front of the transverse processes. Not imfrequently a branch of this description is met with called the ascending lumtar vein, which connects more or less completely the common iliac vein, the ilio-lumbar and lumbar veins, and the azygos vein. c. —The spermatic veins, proceeding upwards from the testicle and forming part of the constituents of the spermatic cord, enter the abdomen, and ascend on the psoas muscle behind the peritoneum. Below the abdominal ring there are numerous convoluted branches forming the spermatic ])lexus (plexus pampiniformis). These branches gradually unite and form a single vessel, which opens on the right side into the lower vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. The spermatic veins sometimes bifurcate before their termination, each division opening separately; in this case the veins of the right side may be found communicating with the vena cava and the renal vein. In the female the ovarian veins have the same general course as the ovarian arteries ; they form a plexus near the ovary (ovarian or pam- piniform plexus) in the broad ligament, and communicate with the uterine plexus. Valves exist in the spermatic veins in man (Monro) ; and in excen- tional cases they have been also seen in the ovarian veins (Theile). d. —The renal or emulgent veins are short but of very considerable size. That of the left side is longer than that of the right, and passes in front of the aorta. They join the vena cava at nearly a right angle. The renal veins usually receive branches from the suprarenal capsules ; the left has also opening into it the spermatic vein of the same side. A valve is usually found at the orifice of the left spermatic vein, or in the renal vein within a quarter of an inch from the orifice of the sper- matic. (E-ivington. Journ. of Anat. Yol. YII., p. 163.) e. —The capsular or suprarenal veins, though actually small, are, relatively to the organs from which they arise, of considerable size. On the right side the vein ends in the vena cava, and on the left in the renal or phrenic vein. /.—The plirenic veins follow exactly the course of the arteries sup- plied to the diaphragm by the abdominal aorta. g.—The liepatic veins return from the liver the blood sent to that organ by the portal vein and hepatic artery. They converge to the groove in which the inferior vena cava lies, and pass at once obliquely into that vein. There are usually three sets of hepatic veins pro- ceeding to this common point: those from the right and left lobes are