52G THE CnAXIAL NEEVES. On the preceding" two pag-es. Fig-. 331 is introduced in illustration of the general view of the distribution above given. In this figure the cranium and orbit have been opened up to the depth of the several foramina through which the nerves pass. The greater part of the lower jaw has also been removed on the left side, and the tongue, pharynx, and larynx are partially in view. The occipital bone has been divided by an incision passing down from the occipital tuberosity and through the condyle to the left of the foramen magnum. The cervical vertebraa have been divided to the left of the middle, and the sheath of the spinal cord opened so as to expose the roots of the cervical nerves. OLFACTORY NERVE. ' The first or olfactory nerve, as it is usually termed, or iract, as it has been more correctly designated, is the special nerve of the sense of smell. It lies on the under (orbital) surface of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum, lodged in a sulcus (olfactory sulcus) to the outer side of and parallel to the longitudinal median fissure. In front the tract swells into an oval enlargement, the olfactori/ bulb, whicli lies in the same sulcus, and from which small nerves descend, through the cribriform plate, into the nose. The olfactory tract and bulb contain a considerable quantity of grey matter, and, in respect of structure, connections, and development, are to be regarded rather as constituent parts of the cerebrum than as a true nerve,—the true peripheral olfactory nerves taking origin from the lower surface of the bulb. In accordance, however, with the most common practice in anatomical w^orks, the nerve will be here described as arising at the commencement of the tract in the brain. A fuller description of the tract and bulb will be found in the account of the cerebrum (Vol ii., pp. 536 and 562). Surface attachment.—At its posterior extremity the olfactory tract widens out and is attached to the under surface of the frontal lobe, in front of the anterior perforated space, by means of three roots, named external, middle and internal, which pass in different directions. The external or Ion// root consists of a band of medullary fibres, which passes, in the form of a white streak, outwards and backwards along the anterior margin of the perforated space, towards the posterior border of the Sylvian fissure, where it disappears. The middle or grey root (tuber olfactorium) is of a pyramidal shape, and consists of grey matter on the surface, which is prolonged from that of the adjacent part of the anterior lobe and of the perforated space. "Within it there are white fibres, which are sometimes described as alone constituting the middle root. The internal root (short root, Scarpa), which cannot always be demon- strated, is composed of white fibres which may be traced from the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe. Beep origin.—This is still doubtful. The outer root has been traced by different observers to the island of Eeil, the optic thalamus (Valentin), and to a nucleus in the substance of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe in front of the anterior extremity of the hippocampus (Rolando, Luys, Foville. This agrees also with Ferrier's experimental localisation of the sense of smell in the monkey). The fibres of the inner root have been thought to be connected with the anterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus, or to cross over to the opposite hemisphere. The fibres of the middle root have been said by some to join those of the inner root, by others to be connected with the corpus striatum.