MUSCLES OF THE LO^YEE LIMB. 230 it from the upper margin of the capsule of the hip-joiiit. A synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon and the troohunter. Belat'wns.—The anterior border of tlie mnscle is in contact with that of tho gluteus medius ; its deep surface with the capsule of the hip joint, the dorsum ilii, and the posterior head of the rectus fenioris : its outer surface is covered by the gluteus medius, gluteal vessels and nerves ; and its posterior border is covered by the pyrif ormis muscle. Varieties.—This muscle may be divided into an anterior and a posterior part, or it may send detached slips to the hip joint, to the pyriformis, to the gemellus superior, or to the outer part of the origin of the vastus externus (Macalister). The p3n?iformis muscle arises within the pelvis by three fleshy digitations from the second, third, and fourth divisions of the sacrum, between the anterior sacral foramina, slightly fimv the deep surface of ■ the iliac bone, near the sacro-sciatic notch, and from the sacro-sciatic iigam.ent. The muscle passes out of the pelvis by the great sacro- sciatic notch, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper border of the great trochanter, being bound dow^n for some distance from the point of its final insertion to the subjacent tendon of the obturator internus and gemelli muscles. Bclat'wns.—The pyi'iformis muscle, after escaping from the pelvis, is in contact by its upper border with the gluteus medius and minimus, the gluteal vessels and nerve intervening ; and by its lovrer border with the superior gemellus muscle, the sciatic vessels and nerves, which emerge beneath it, lying bet^^^een ; its outer surface is covered by the gluteus maximus, and its deep surface is in contact -udth the capsule of the hip joint. Varieties.—This muscle is frequently found to be pierced by the great sciatic nerve or by its external popliteal branch, and is thus di\dded more or less com.- pletely into two parts. It may be united with the gluteus medius, superior gemellus, or obturator internus. It may have only one or two sacral attach- ments, or again its tendon may be "inserted into the hip joint. Its entire absence has also been noted. J'^ The obturator internus muscle, in great part lodged within the pelvis, arises from the deep surface of the obturator membrane ; from the fibrous arcli wdiich completes the canal for the obturator vessels and nerves; from the bone surrounding the obturator foramen, extending downwards to the outlet, backwards as far as the sciatic notch, and upwards to the brim, of the pelvis; a few fibres also arise from the obturator fascia, which is in contact with the deep surface of the muscle. Its fi^bres converging as they proceed backwards from this origin, the muscle emerges from the pelvis by the small sacro-sciatic foramen, gliding over the trochlear surface of the ischium, and is directed outwards, to be inserted, in connection with the gemelli, into tlie upper part of the digital fossa of the great trochanter. The tendon, occupying the surface of the muscle Avhich is towards the bone, is folded together into four or five plaits which lie side by side as they turn over the trochlear groove : their motion in that groove is facilitated by a synovial bursa, vrhich is inflected over them, and by a thin coating of cartilage on the trochlear surface of the bone. Another bursa, of much smaller size, elongated and narrow, is placed between the tendon and the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. These bursae are sometimes continuous with one another. Relations.—The deep surface of the pelvic portion is in contact with the deep pelvic fascia and near its lower border with the pudic vessels and nerve. The outer sm-f ace is in contact with the bones and obtm-ator membrane. At its upper