S4G THE AOETA. is the remains of the ductus arteriosus, a large vessel jDeculiar to the foetus, which has been already described. The right pulmonary artery, longer and somewhat larger than the left, runs almost transversely outwards behind the ascending aorta and the superior vena cava into the root of the right lung, where it imme- diately begins to divide in the usual manner of arteries. The left pulmonary artery, shorter than the right, passes horizon- tally in front of the descending aorta and left bronchus into the root of the left lung, to undergo its ramification. The right and left pulmonary arteries, at the root of the lung, both lie in front of the bronchus and behind the veins. On the right side the bronchus is highest and the veins lowest, while on the left side the bronchus sinks to a level between the artery and veins. PULMONAEY VEINS. The pulmonary veins are four short venous trnnks which convey the red blood back from the lungs to the left side of the heart, and which are found, two on each side, in the root of the corresponding lung. The two veins of the right side, which are longer than those of the left, pass below the right pulmonary artery, and behind the superior vena cava, the right auricle, and the aorta, to enter the left auricle. Not unfrequently a third smaller vein exists on the right side in connection with the third lobe of the right lung. The two left pul- monary veins run a shorter course to reach the auricle, passing in front of the aorta. The distribution of the pulmonary capillaries is exclusively to the membrane lining the air cells of the lungs. The varieties of the pulmonary arteries will be referred to along with those of the aorta. SYSTEMIC AETEEIES. THE AOHTA. The aorta, the large main trunk of the systemic arteries, is situated partly within the thorax and partly in the abdomen. It commences at the left ventricle of the heart, and after arching over the root of the left lung, descends in front of the vertebral column, and passing through the diaphragm into the abdominal cavity, ends opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the right and left common iliac arteries. In this course the aorta forms a continuous undivided trunk, Avhich gradually diminishes in size from its commencement to its ter- mination, and gives off larger or smaller branches at various points. Different parts of the vessel have received particular names, derived from their position or direction. The short curved part, which reaches from the ventricle of the heart to the side of the third dorsal vertebra, is named the arch; the straight part, which extends from that vertebra to tlie diaphragm, is called the thoracic aorta ; and the remainder of the vessel, down to its bifurcation, is designated the aMominal aorta. ASCH OF THE AOETA. The arch of the aorta commences at the upper part of the base of the left ventricle of the heart, behind the pulmonary artery. At first it passes upwards and to the right side, somewhat in the direction of the heart itself, and crosses obliquely behind the sternum, approach-