138 AETICULATIONS OF THE TKUNK AND HEAD. articular surfaces of the axis and with the condyles of the occipital bone. The atlanto-axial capsule is strengthened behind by an accessory liga- ment, directed downwards and inwards to the body of the axis near the base of the odontoid process. The transverse ligament of the atlas is a strong and thick band, which extends across the ring of the atlas, and retains the odon- toid process in its place. It is attached on each side to the tubercle below the inner border of the superior articulating process. It is arched backwards behind the odontoid process, and is broadened out in the middle line. From the middle of its posterior surface a short thin bundle of fibres passes down to be attached to the body of the axis, whilst another passes up to the basilar process. These form, with the transverse portion, the figure of a cross, and serve to bind the occiput to the first two vertebrae ; from this arrangement is derived the term cruciform, which is sometimes applied to the transverse ligament and its appendages together. Fig. 122.—Transverse Ver- tical Section op the lower part op the oc- CIPITAL Bone, and the TWO UPPER Vertebrae BEHIND THE ARTICULA- TIONS (A. T. after Arnold), i 1, 1, apparatus ligamen- tosiis turned np on the occi- pital bone ; 2, 2', vertical part, and 3, 3, transverse or principal part of the cru- ciform ligament; x , neck of the odontoid process ; 4, 4, the alar or lateral odon- toid ligaments; 5, 5, the accessory ligaments of the atlanto-axial capsules ; 6, 6, part of the capsular ligaments of the condylar articulations ; 7, 7„ capsular ligaments of the atlanto-axial articulations ; 8, 8, intertransverse ligaments between the occiput and atlas. Two synovial membranes are placed one in front and another behind the odontoid process ; the first of these is situated between the Fig. 123.—Horizontal Section throuCxH the Odonto-Atlantal Articulation. (.\. T.) i 1, cut surface of the odontoid process ; 2, cut surface of the anterior arch of the atlas ; 3, transverse ligament; between 1 and 2, the anterior synovial cavity, and between 1 and 3, the posterior synovial cavity of the articulation ; 4, is placed on the back pai-t of the left superior arti- cular process of the atlas ; the anterior part of this process, and that of the other side, have been partly removed by the section. For the sake of distinctness, the synovial spaces are represented somewhat wider than natural. process and the anterior arch of the atlas, the other between the.process and the transverse ligament.