Fig. 40. 3 and 4, are the naso-palatiue, or foramina of Scarpa. 48 BONES OF THE HEAD. Fig. 40.—Front Part of the Palate and are distinguished as the foramina of Scarpa. The whole communi- cation between the nose and the palate may be designated collectively as the anterior 2^cilaUne canal. Alveolar Arch of an Adult, | Showing the lower opening of the anterior palatine or incisor foramen. 1, 2, are placed on the palate plate:s of the two superior maxillary bones ; 4, anterior pa- latine foramen, in Avhich is seen a partial division into four openings—the two lateral, with lines pointing to them from 1 and 2, are the incisor foramina (foramina of Stenson); the anterior and posterior, indicated by The term.^ incisor fornmcn and anterior imlathic canal are often used convertibly and vagnely to express what has been above defined as the anterior palatine canal, or its inferior opening. According to the definitions here given, incisor foramen has the same meaning in human as in comparative anatomy, while anterior palatine canal is restricted to an appearance which presents itself only in man and a few animals. The lamina passing- backwards from before each incisor foramen corre- sponds to the mesial palatine process of the intermaxillary bone in other animals, ej/. the carnivora : while the incisor foramina are those which are seen largely developed in those animals, and are the remains of a primitive communication b)etween the nose and mouth. The foramina of Scarpa lie in the suture between the laminae referred to. They transmit the naso-palatine nerves ; the nerve of the right side occupying, according to Scarpa, the posterior one, which is usually largest, and that of the left side, the anterior : but they are very inconstant. (Scarpa, Annot. Anatom., lib. ii. cap. .5.) The external surface is divided into an anterior and a posterior part by the malar ^^tocess, a prominence situated above the first molar tooth, and presenting' a large triangular roughness for articulation with the malar bone. The anterior portion is deeply notched at its internal mai'gin for the opening of the anterior nares. It is marked by a pro- minence corresponding to the position of the fang of the canine tooth ; and internal to this is a slight depression, the incisor or myrtiform fossa; while between it and the malar process is the deeper canine fossa, in which arise the levator anguli oris and compressor nasi muscles. Above the canine fossa, nnmediately below the margin of the orbit, is the infra-ordital foramen, which transmits the superior maxillary nerve. The posterior portion looks partly into the zygomatic, partly into the pterygo-maxillary fossa. It exhibits a rough convexity, the tuberositi/, projecting backwards, and is perforated by a number of foramina transmitting the superior dental nerves and arteries. The nasal process projects upwards from the anterior and internal part of the bone. Its internal surface, towards its summit, is rough for articulation with the lateral mass of the ethmoid; its anterior border is rough for articulation with the nasal bone, and its summit serrated for articulation with the frontal. Posteriorly it articulates by a linear edge with the lachrymal bone; and external to this it presents a well-marked groove for the lachrymal sac, the lachrymal groove, which is continued downwards on the inner surface of the bone, betw^een this process and the orbital plate, and with the lachrymal and inferior turbinated bones forms the nasal canal. The nasal surface presents an oblique rough line or ridge beneath the