585 THE CIECUMFLEX NEHVE. Tipper and a lower branch, which are distributed to the deltoid and teres minor muscles, the integument of the shoulder, and the shoulder- joint . Fig. 358.—Distribution of the Posterior Cutaneous Nerves op the Shoulder and A^m (after HirscMel and Leveille). ■§• 1, supra-acromial branclies of the cervical nerves de- scending on the deltoid muscle ; 2, ascending or reflected, and 2', descending cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve ; 3, inferior external cutaneous of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 4, external and posterior cutaneous branches of th e musculo-cutaneous nerve to the forearm ; 5, internal cutaneous of the musculo-spiral ; 6, intercosto-humeral branches ; 7, twigs of the nerve of Wrisberg; 8, upper posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve ; 9, lower branch of the same. a. The iqu^cr i^ortion winds round the upper part of the humerus, extending to the anterior border of the deltoid muscle, to which it is distributed. One or two cutaneous filaments, penetrating between the muscular fibres, are bent downwards and supply the integument over the lower part of the muscle. 1). The loKcr dranch supplies offsets to the back part of the deltoid, and furnishes the nerve to the teres minor, which is remarkable in presenting a gangli- form enlargement. It then turns round the posterior border of the deltoid below the middle, and ramifies in the integument, over the lower two-thirds of that muscle, one branch extending to the integument over the long end of the triceps m.uscle. c. An articular filameyit for the shoulder-joint arises near the commencement of the nerve, and enters the capsular ligament below the subscapular muscle Varieties.—In two instances Turner has described a branch of the circumflex nerve which supplies the teres major. (Joum. of Anat. vol. vi., p. 104.) Internal cutaneons nerve.—At ifcs origin from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, this nerve is placed on the inner side of the axillary artery. It becomes cutaneous about the middle of the arm, and after perforating the fascia, or, in some cases, before doing so, is divided into two parts; one destined for the anterior, the other for the posterior surface of the forearm. a. The anterior Irancli crosses at the bend of the elbow "behind (in some cases over) the median_basilic vein, and distributes filaments in front of the forearm, as far as the w'HstT^ne of these is, in some instances, joined with a cutaneous branch, of the ulnar nerve. i. The lumterior hranch inclines obliquely downwards at the inner side of the basilic vein, and winding to the back of the forearm, over the prominence of the internal condyle of the humerus, extends somewhat below the middle of the fore- arm. Above the elbow this branch is connected with the smaller internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and afterwards communicates with the outer portion of the internal cutaneous, and, according to Swan, with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. c. A branch to the intc(jumcnt of tlic arm pierces the fascia near the axilla, and