BEANCHES OF THE INFEEIOR YENA CAYA. 495 oblique in their direction, those from the middle of the liver and the lobule of Spigelius have an intermediate position and course. The hepatic veins have no valves ; but, owing to their oblique entrance into the vena cava, a semi-lunar fold is seen at the lower border of the orifice of each vein. Varieties.—The lower vena cava presents some occasional deviations from its ordinary condition, which may be briefly noticed. In the lower part of its course it is sometimes placed to the left side of the aorta, and, after receiving the left renal vein, resumes its ordinary position by crossing over the great artery. Less frequently, the vena cava is placed alto- gether on the left side, and is continued upwards to the heart, without any change in its direction ; this occurs in cases of transposition of the thoracic and abdominal viscera and of the great vessels. In a more numerous class of cases, the left common iliac vein, instead of joining the right in its usual position, is connected with it only by a small branch, and then ascends on the left side of the aorta. After receiving the left renal vein, it crosses over the aorta, and terminates by uniting with the common iliac vein of the right side. In these cases, the vena cava inferior can be said to exist only at the upper part of the abdomen, and below this point there is a vein on each side of the aorta. Lastly, the lower vena cava, instead of ending in the right auricle of the heart, has been seen to join the right azygos vein, which is then very large so that the blood from the lower, as well as from the upper part of the body, is returned to the heart through the upper vena cava. In this case, the hepatic veins do not join the lower cava, but pass directly into the right auricle, at the usual place of termination of the great vein. (Specimen in Glasgow University Museum.) The left renal vein has been seen to cross behind the aorta. In a remarkable case, observed by Eothe, one of the hepatic veins ended, not in the lower cava, nor in the right auricle, but in the right ventricle of the heart, its orifice being guarded by valves. (Act. Acad. Joseph. Med. Chir. Yindobonensis, t. i. p. 233, tab. 5. Yindobon^, 1788.) VEIITS OF THE LOWER LIMB AIMD PELVIS. The veins of the lower limb are divisible into two sets, those of the one being deeply seated, those of the other running in the superficial fascia. All the veins of the lower limb, as high as the femoral venous trunk, are provided with valves, and these are more numerous than in the veins of the upper limb. The deep veins have more valves than the subcutaneous set. SUPEBFICIAIi VEINS OP THE LOWEB LIMB. Immediately beneath the integument, on the dorsum of the foot, there exists a network of veins forming an arch, from which issue two principal trunks, which are named the internal or long and the external or short saphenous veins. The internal or long saphenous vein extends from the ankle to within an inch and a half ot Poupart's ligament. Taking rise from the plexus of veins on the dorsum of the foot, it passes upwards in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner border of the tibia, accompanied by the internal saphenous nerve. It inclines a little backwards as it passes the inner condyle of the femur, and ascending- along the inner and fore part of the thigh, it terminates in the femoral vein, at the saj)he?io2(s o]jenwg in the fascia lata, through which it passes. In the leg it communicates with the deep veins accompanying the