TARSAL ARTICULATIONS. 177 Fig. 159. third and fourth metatarsal bones, after covering the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. The short or deep-seated plantar Hga mesit lies close to the bones, being separated from the superficial part by some cellular tissue. Its breadth is considerable, its length scarcely an inch. One extremity is attached to the calcaneum in front of the long ligament, the other, somewhat expanded, to the under surface of the cuboid bone, internal to the tuberosity. The dorsal or superior ligaaiient is a flat band of fibres which connects the anterior and upper surface of the calcaneum with the adjacent part of the cuboid bone. The internal or interosseous ligament is placed deeply in the hollow between the astragalus and os calcis, and is closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. A separate synovial membrane lines this joint. Aeticulations of the Scaphoid, Cuboid, ais^d Cu^^eiform Bones, ONE w^TH another.—Scapho-Cuboid Articulation.—The sca^^hoid and cuMid tones are connected by a dorsal liganmit, composed of short Fig. 159.—Ligaments op the Foot, from ti-ib outside and dorsal aspect. (A.T.) | 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, lower anterior tibio-peroneal ligament; 3, lower posterior tibio-peroneal ligament ; 4, middle part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, passing to the calcaneum ; 5, anterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, i^assing to the astragalus ; below the last ligament the external calcaneo-talar ligament has not been represented in this figure ; 6, posterior part of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, XDassing to the astragalus ; 7, is placed above the interosseous calcaneo-talar ligament ; 8, dorsal calcaneo-scaphoid ; 9, dorsal calcaneo-cuboid ; 10, part of the long plantar or calcaneo-cuboid ; 11, superior talo-sca- phoid ; 12 and 13, second and third scapho-cuneiform, and between them one of the intercuneiform ligaments ; 14, superior scapho-cuboid ; 15, placed on the external cuneiform bone, points to tlie cuneo-metatarsal ligaments from that bone to the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones ; 16, cuneo-metatarsal ligament, fi-om the first cunei- form to the second metatarsal bone ; between 12 and 16, are seen the cuneo-metatarsal /igaments which converge from the three cuneiform bones on the second metatarsal; 17^ cubo-metatarsal ligament passing to the fourth metatarsal bone ; 18, that to the fifth, 19 and x x, dorsal intermetatarsal ligaments; 20, lateral metatarso-digital; 21, 22, lateral digital. VOL. I. ' N