aiJADRICEPS EXTENSOR CRURIS MUSCLE. 237 Helatlons.—In this long course the mnscle is directed over the anterior part of the thigh, obliquely inwards in the upper third, and vertically at the inner aspect of the limb as far as the knee ; helow tliij it turns obliquely for^vards to its place of attachment. The tendon of insertion, broad and expanded, covers the tendons of the gracilis and semitendi- nosus (a sj-novial bursa being interposed), and gives off one expansion which strengthens the capsule of the knee- joint by becoming incorporated with it, and another vrhich blends with the fascia of the leg. Pig. 18S.—Superficial Muscles op the Front of the Thigh. (A. T.) \ a, anterior part of the crest of the ilium ; h, symphysis pubis ; r, patella ; d, the an- terior tuberosity of the tibia ; 1, the inser- tion of the external oblique muscle into the iliac crest ; 2, its aponeurosis at the linea semilunaris ; 3, the external abdominal ring ; 4, the gluteus medius ; 5, tensor vaginre femoris at the place of its insertion into a portion of the fascia lata, which has been removed betvveen 5 and 5', which latter part is seen descending to be attached to the tibia and fibula ; 6, the sartorius ; 6', the insertion of the sartorius ; 7, psoas and iliacus conjoined ; 8, pectineus; 9, adductor longus ; 10, gracilis ; 11, part of the adductor magnus 12, vastus externus ; 1-3, rectus femoris ; 14, vastus internus ; Ji', its continuatio i on the outer side below ; 15, the biceps flexor cruris. The sartorius is covered only by the fascia lata and the integument. It passes over the iliacus and rectus femoris mus- cles, the anterior crural nerve and fe- moral vessels, the pectineus, the adductor longus, adductor magnus, vastus internus and semitendinosus muscles. The inner border of this muscle and th pro- jecting part of the adductor longus form the sides, and Poupart's'ligament forms the base, of a triangidar space in the upper thhd of the thigh, through the middle of which the femoral ai-tery i}asses. This usually receives the name of Scarpa's triangle. Varieties—The sart.orius has frequently been found divided into two parts similarly attached ; or the lower muscle is inserted into the femm' or into the tendon of the normal one. The tendon of insertion has been found to end in the fascia lata or in the capsule of ilie knee-joint, absence of the muscle has also been noted. Total '''o Tlie quadriceps extensor cruris, the extensor muscle of the knee, is divisible into four parts, one of which, the rectus femoris, descends from the hip-bone and remains distinct, while the other three,