MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 256 transverse fibres are super added, which bind the processes together, and connect them closely with the skin. Near the articulation of the toes with the metatarsal bones, each of the five processes divides, to permit the passage of the flexor tendons ; and the two bundles of fibres resulting from the division of each process, after strengthening the sheath of the tendons over which they pass, are attached to the sides of the metatarsal bone, and are blended with the transverse ligament uniting those bones. From the point of splitting of each process, as in the hand, fibrous bands are continued forwards to the skin in the divisions between the toes. The two intermuscular septa which lie . between the middle and lateral portions of the plantar fascia pass deeply into the sole of the foot ; they separate the flexor brevis digitorum from the abductor pollicis on the inner side, and from the abductor minimi digiti on the outer side, and give partial origin to each of these muscles. In the sole of the foot as in the palm of the hand there is a band of transverse fibres across the roots of the digits, placed immediately beneath the skin, and connected with the subjacent sheaths of the tendons. The digital nerves and vessels are covered by this structure, which receives the name of transverse ligament of the toes. Shoet Plantar Muscles.—These muscles may most conveniently be described in layers, as they are found in the course of a dissection. The first, or superficial layer includes the common flexor of the toes, and the abductors of the great and little toes. The second layer consists of the flexor accessorius and the lumbricales, the third layer of the deep plantar muscles of the great and little toes, and the fourth layer of the dorsal and plantar interossei. Fig. 198,—First Layer of Plantar Muscles, as seen on THE removal op THE PlANTAR FaSCIA. | 1, abductor pollicis ; 2, flexor brevis digitorum ; on the second toe the sheath is opened so as to show the tendon of the flexor brevis perforated by that of the flexor longus ; on the other toes the transverse and oblique crossing fibres of the sheath are shown ; 3, strongest portion of the plantar aponeurosis left upon the surface of the flexor brevis, near the OS calcis ; 4, abductor minimi digiti; 5, the lumbricales miiscles : 6, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis muscle. First layer of Muscles.—The flexor brevis digitorum, or iiexor perfo^atiis, arises by a small pointed and tendinous attachment from the inner part of the greater tuberosity of the cal- caneum, from the deep surface of the plantar fascia for about two inches forwards, and from the intermuscular septum on each side. The muscle terminates in four slender tendons, in- serted into the second phalanx of each of the four outer toes. Each tendon prior to its insertion divides and gives passage between its parts to the tendon of the long flexor, in a manner precisely similar to the arrangement of the tendons of the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles of the hand. Relations.—^\ns> muscle lies between tlie abductor pollicis and abductor minimi