193 THE PECTORAL MUSCLES. II. BSTVvEEN TIIS TRTJNK AND' TEE UPFSS LIMB ANTSiHORLY. FASCiiE.—The superficial fascia of the pectoral region encloses the mammary gland, covermg it both in front and behind, and sending strong septa in between its lobes. Processes likewise extend forwards from the fascial investment of the gland, between the masses of fat, to the skin and nipple, thus affording sujjport to the gland. The deep fascia of the pectoral region is continuous with that of the neck both before and behind the clavicle, and with the similar structure spreading over the shoulder and thorax, x^s belonging to the deep fascia there may be specially noticed the costo-coracoid memlrane, whicli is a distinct layer of firm fascia, attached superiorly to the clavicle and giving a firm covering to the subclavius muscle. Its strong lower margin, distinguished sometimes as the costo-coracoid ligciment, extends from the coracoid process to the first rib at the origin of the subclavius muscle. The deep fascia, continued from this struc- ture inferiorly, is narrowed like a funnel, and becomes thinner as it descends upon the surface of the axillary vessels, forming the anterior part of the sheath of those vessels, while the posterior part is formed t)y a deep process of the cervical fascia. The axillary fascia is a strong membrane stretched across the axilla, and so disposed as to maintain the skin in position over that hollow. Beneath the pectoralis major muscle is a layer of fascia attached to the chest in front of the costo-coracoid membrane : it divides into two layers to enclose the pectoralis minor, and, these reuniting, it con- tinues to pass outwards as a strong membrane between the ]3ectoralis minor and short head of the biceps muscle ; lower down it is joined by the fascia covering the pectoralis major, which is folded round the margin of that muscle, and, thus strengthened, it slopes outwards and backwards to the inferior border of the scapula, where it is joined by the sheaths of the latissimus clorsi and teres major muscles. In the deepest part of the axilla the fascia is perforated by numerous blood-vessels and lymphatics. At the outer side occupied by the large vessels and nerves of the limb, it is continuous with the sheath of the vessels and Avith the aponeurosis of the arm. The density of this fascia offers a considerable obstacle to the progress of axillary abscesses to the surface. Muscles.—The psctoralis major muscle arises from the anterior and lower surface of the sternal half of the clavicle ; from the anterior surface of the sternum ; from the cartilages of the second to the sixth ribs, and also the bony part of the sixth rib ; and from the aponeurosis of the external obb'que muscle of the abdomen. Its fibres form a thick mass, and converge to be inserted by a tendon of considerable breadth into the outer bicipital ridge of the humerus. At the axillary border the muscular fasciculi, especially those of the pectoral part, are folded back- wards, so that the lower fibres successively disappear from view, and the insertion into the humerus takes place by a broad flat tendon which is doubled upon itself in two close parallel lines, open above and con- nected below. The clavicular fasciculi are for the most part inserted on the outer surface of the anterior fold of the tendon, but they are also continued by independent tendon directly to the humerus. The posterior fold of the pectoral tendon is usually considerably broader than the anterior, and thus its line of attachment rises higher on the humerus. VOL. I. 0