12 YEETEBEAL COLUMK processes are smaller than the superior, flat, nearly circular, looking downwards and slightly inwards. The posterior arch presents in the middle line a rough elevation, the rudiment of a spinous process. The rest of the arch is thick and round, but at its junction with the lateral masses, it is hollowed out superiorly, so as to form a smooth transverse groove, in which lie the vertebral artery and first spinal (sub-occipital) nerve. It is sometimes converted into a foramen by a small arch of bone, and corresponds to the notches of the other vertebrge. The frcmsverse processes are larger and project further outwards than those of the subjacent vertebrae. They are flattened from above down- wards, and have the foramen for the vertebral artery at their roots. Their extremities are not bifid, but broad and rough. The Second Yevtebv3..~Axis (vert, dentata) forms a pivot on which the head with the first vertebra rotates. The body is characterised by the presence of a large blunt or tooth- like process called oclontoid (proc. dentatus). This consists of an enlarged part termed the head, and a lower part ^^o- '^^ or ncclc. It presents in front a smooth surface for articulation with the atlas, and behind a smooth groove to receive the transverse ligament. The lower surface Fig. 7.—The Axis Vertebra. (A. T.) ^ A, seen from above and beliind ; *B, seen from the right side. 1, the body ; 4, the vertebral ring or foramen ; 5, the spinous process, bifid and very large ; 6, the transverse process ; 7, the superior articular process ; 7', ths inferior oblique articu- lar jDrocess ; 1* in A, is placed at the side of the odontoid process ; in B, in front of it, marking the smooth surface of articulation with the anterior arch of the atlas. of the body resembles that of the suc- ceeding vertebrse. Its anterior surface presents a low median vertical ridge, with a depression on each side. The superior articular surfaces placed like those of the atlas in front of the notch, lie close to the base of the odontoid process, partly on the body and partly on the arch of the vertebra. These surfaces look upwards and slightly outwards. The inferior articular processes are similar in form and position to those of the succeeding vertebrae. The spinous process is very large, rough, deeply bifid, and grooved on its inferior surface. The tamitm are very thick and strong. The transverse processes are shore and scarcely grooved and bifurcated. The foramen for the vertebral artery is inclined obliquely downwards and inwards. Borsal Vertebra.—These are twelve in number, and support the ribs. The body as seen from above is somewhat heart-shaped ; its antero- posterior and transverse diameters are nearly equal. It is specially characterised by the presence, at the place where it joins the arch, of depressed articular surfaces for the heads of ribs. In