VEETEBEAL COLUMN. Fig. 12. Fig. 12.—Sacrum and Coccyx op the large lateral mass ; 7, 7' the superior and In the groove between the two rows are placed the four posterior sacral foramina, which are smaller than the anterior. The part of the sacrum external to the foramina constitutes the lateral mass, and is broad and thick superiorly, but narrowed inferiorlv. The outer aspect of the upper part presents in front a large uneven Male yiewei; from behind. (A. T.) ^ 1, Body of the first sacral vertebra ; 4, 4, sacral canal; and behind this, the series of four united laminfe and spinous processes ; 7 6, 6' line of tubercles corresponding to transverse processes ; 7, 7', line of articu- lar processes, with four adjacent posterior sacral foramina ; I, I, auricular or iliac ai-ticular surface ; in the coccj'-x, c, body of the last vertebra ; ty transverse process ; 7, cornu or superior articular process. surface, covered in the recent state with cartilage, which articu- lates with the ilium, and is called from its shape the auricular sur- face : behind this it is rough and very uneven, for the attachment of ligaments. Lower down, the margin becomes narrowed and sinuous, terminating in the pro- jection called the inferior lateral angle, below which the breadth of the bone is suddenly contracted so as to form a notch with the adjacent part of the coccyx. The Mse or upper surface of the first vertebra bears considerable resemblance to the upper surface of the last lumbar. In the middle it presents the reniform surface of the body, behind which is the triangular aperture of the sacral canal, bounded by the depressed Fig. 13.—Upper Surface or Base op the Sacrum op a Male. (A. T.) 5 1, the body ; 4, the foramen, ring, or sacral canal ; 5, the spinous process of the first sacral vertebra; 6, the part corresponding to a transverse process, in front of which is the- inferior articular processes ; e, the mam- millary tubercle ; /, the accessory tubercle, slightly seen. laminse. On each side of the aperture is an articular process, exactly resembling the superior process of a lumbar vertebra. In front of this is a groove which forms part of the last lumbar intervertebral foramen. The external portion of the base presents posteriorly an eminence corresponding to the lumbar transverse process, and in front of that a large smooth curved surface, continuous with the ihac fossa of the pelvis.