THE SPIXAL XERVES. IX Fig. 351. Fig. 351.—Diagrammatic Outline of thk Eoots AND First Part of the Spinal Nerves, to- gether with the Sympathetic Trunk of one SIDE. (A. T.) i 1^ The view is taken from he fore. In the upper part of the figure the pons Varolii and medulla oblongata are represented, and from V to JX, the roots of the several cranial nerves from the trifacial to the hypoglossal are indicated. On the left side C 1 is placed opposite the first cer- vical or suboccipital nerve ; and the numbers 2 to 8 following below indicate the corresponding cer- vical nerves ; Br, indicates the brachial plexus ; D 1, is placed opposite the intercostal part of the first dorsal nerve, and the numbers 2 to 12 follow- ing mark the corresponding dorsal nerves ; L 1, the first lumbar nerve, and the numbers 2 to 5, following the remaining lumbar nerves ; Cr, the anterior crural, and o, the obturator nerve ; S 1, the first sacral, and the following numbers 2 to 5, the remaining sacral nerves ; 6, the coccygeal nerve ; Sc, the great sciatic nerve; +, +, the filum terminale of the cord. On the right side of the figure the following letters indicate jDarts of the sympathetic nerves; viz., «, the superior cervical ganglion communi- cating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued below in the great sympathetic cord ; h, the middle cervical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with tlie first dorsal ; rf', the eleventh dorsal ganglion ; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglion the origins of the great splanchnic nerve are shown ; I, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; ss, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. "F SuMJiARY.—The hypoglossal nerve sup})]ies, either alone or in union with branches of the spinal nerves, all the muscles connected with the os hyoides, including those of the tongue, with the jTj exception of the digastric, stylo-liyoid, mylo-hyoid and the middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also suppHes the sterno-thyroid muscle. It is connected with tlic following nerves, viz., pneumo-gastric, lingual, three upper cervical nerve? sympathetic. and the 54 B. SPIHAIi l^SRVES. The spinal nerves are characterised by their origin from the spinal cord, and their direct transmission outwards from the spinal canal in the intervals between the vertebra3. Taken together, these nerves consist of thirty-one pairs ;