THE CORONAEY AND HEPATIC ARTERIES. 425 to tlie viscera, the additional vessel being- a second coronary, or a separate gastro- duodenal artery. One or both phrenic arteries are sometimes derived from this trunk. Cases have been met with in which a connection existed between the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery close to their origin. 1. The coronary arberj of tlie stomacli, the smallest of the three visceral branches derived from the coeliac artery, inclining upwards and to the left side, reaches the cardiac orifice of the stomach, and then proceeding along the smaller curvature of the stomach, from left to right, gives branches to both sides of that viscus and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. ■\Vhere it first reaches the stomach, this artery sends upwards (Gmpliafjeal hranclics, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries. The branches to the stomach descending on the fore and back part of the organ, anastomose with branches from the arterial arch on the great curvature. Varieties.—The coronary artery of the stomach is sometimes given off directly from the aorta : and is occasionally replaced by two separate vessels. It some- times furnishes an additional hepatic arteiy, 2. The hepatic artery is in the adult intermediate in size between the coronary and splenic arteries, but, in the foetus, it is the largest of the three. The main part of this vessel inclines upwards and to the right side, betw-een the layers of the small omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, towards the transverse fissure of the liver ; and in this course it lies upon the vena portse and to the left of the bile- duct. Kear the transverse fissure of the liver, the hepatic artery divides into right and left branches, which sup]3ly the corresponding lobes of that organ. The left^ the smaller division, lying in front of the vena portse, diverges at an acute angle from the other branch, and turns out- wards to reach the left extremity of the transverse fissure of the liver, where it enters that organ. The rigid branch inclines outwards to the right extremity of the transverse fissure, and divides into two or three branches before entering the liver. The ramifications of the hepatic artery in the liver accom- pany the divisions of the venae porta3 and hepatic ducts. Branches.—The named branches of the hepatic artery are as follow. {ci) The piiloric artery, coming in contact with the stomach at the upper border of the pylorus, extends from right to left along the smaller curvature and inosculates with the coronary artery. It is sometimes a branch of the gastro-duodenal. (h) The gasiro-duodenal artery, of considerable size, separating from the hepatic artery before that vessel ascends in the small omentum, descends behind the duodenum, near the pylorus, and reaches the lower border of the stomach; there it gives off the superior pancreatico- duodenal branch, and its remainiug part, which receives the name of right gastro-epiploic, runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach, between the layers of the great omentum, and finally inosculates with the left gastro-epiploic derived from the splenic artery. The f/adro-cjyiplolc artery gives branches upwards to both surfaces of tho stomach, and long slender vessels dowhwards to the omentum.