MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 208 Werves of the Braciiial Muscles.—Tlie three anterior flexor muscles are all supplied from the musculo-cutaneous nerve : tlie brachialis anticus, hoTsnever, receives also a small twig- from the musculo-spiral nerve. The triceps and anconeus receive their nerves entirely from the musculo-spiral. Actions.—The biceps muscle raises the arm at the shoulder and flexes the elbow-joint; the short head of the biceps draws the arm inwards as well as up- wards, as does also the coraco-brachialis. If the biceps be called into action when the hand is in pronation, its first effect, from its insertion into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, is to produce supination of the forearm. The biceps also makes tense the fascia of the forearm. The brachialis anticu-s is a simple flexor of the elbow. The external and internal heads of the triceps and the anconeus muscle, are simple extensors of the elbow joint; the long head, while it assists extension, also tends to depress the arm on the scapula. MUSCIiES AND FASCIA OF THE FOBHAEM. Fasci.^:.—The siiperiicial fascia of the forearm is most distinct opposite the bend of the elbow, where the superficial veins contained Avithin its laminge are numerous and large. In the palm of the hand, on the contrary, the subcutaneous tissue forms a firm connecting medium between the skin and a strong aponeurosis named the palmar ^fascia : it consists of a network of fibres passing between those two structures, dividing the subcutaneous fat into small granular masses, and preventing the skin from shifting to any considerable extent. The aponeurosis of the forearm, like that of the arm, is composed principally of circular fibres, strengthened, however, by longitudinal and oblique fibres descending from the condylar eminences of the humerus, from the olecranon, and from tlie semilunar fascia of the biceps muscle. It is attached along the subcutaneous margin of the ulna, and may be conveniently divided into an anterior and a posterior part. The anterior part of the aponeurosis of the forearm is much weaker than the membrane on the posterior aspect of the limb. It is continued below into the anterior annular ligament of the wrist. In the hollow im- mediately below the bend of the elbow, it presents a small oval aperture for the transmission of a short communicating branch between the super- ficial and the deep veins of the forearm. It increases in density towards the hand; and a little above the wrist affords a sheath to the tendon of the long palmar muscle, which passes over the annular ligament to be inserted into the narrow end of the palmar fascia. Several white lines seen on the surface of the fascia mark the positions of the septa between the origins of the muscles descending from the inner condylar eminence, which are continuous with it. Between the superficial and the deep flexor muscles, another layer of fascia is stretched from side to side ; it is stronger below than above, where it generally consists of little more than thin connective tissue. The anterior annular ligament of the carpus, previously described at p. 157, is continuous at its upper margin with the fascia of the forearm, and receives some fibres from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris: the lower margin is connected with a deep part of the palmar fascia, and gives origin in part to most of the short muscles of the thumb and little finger. This structure may be considered in some measure as a deep thickened portion of the fascia of the wrist. posterior ijortion of the aponeurosis of the forearm, much thicker