BONES OP THE UPPER LIMB. 92 circular facet on its outer half, which articulates with the pisiform bone, The cuneiform articulates with three bones, viz., the semilunar, pisiform, and unciform. ^ The pisiform bone lies on a plane anterior to the other bones of the carpus. Posteriorly it possesses an articular surface, which rests on the cu.neiform bone. The mass of the bone is so inclined from this surface d®wnwards and outwards, that the pisiform, bone of one hand is distin- guishable from that of the otiier. The trapezium bone is the most external of the second row of carpal bones. It presents a rhombic form when seen in its dorsal or palmar aspect, and has its most prominent angle directed downwards. Fig- ^8. Fig. 78.—Dorsal A'iew of the Carpus, with a PORTION OP EACH OP THE METACARPAL BoNES. ^ 1, scaphoid ; 2, semilunar ; 3, cuneiform ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium ; 7, trapezoid ; 8, os mag- num ; 9, unciform. Its anterior surface is marked by a vertical groove traversed by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle, and external to the groove by a ridge, or tubercle, one of the four prominences which give attachment to the anterior annular ligament. Of the internal sides of the rhomb, the superior articulates with the scaphoid bone, the inferior with the trapezoid bone, and by a small facet close to the inferior angle also with the second metacarpal bone. Of the external sides the supe- rior is rough, and the inferior presents a smooth surface, convex from behind forwards, and concave from without inwards, which articulates with the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and is separated by a rough line at the vaferior angle from the surface for the second metacarpal bone. The trapezium articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezoid, and first and second metacarpals. The trapeisoid bone is considerably smaller than the trapezium. Its longest diameter is from before backwards. Its posterior surface, which is pentagonal, is much larger than the anterior. The external inferior angle of the anterior surface is distinguished by being pro- longed a little backwards between the trapezium and second metacarpal bone. The superior surface articulates with the scaphoid bone ; the external with the trapezium ; the internal with the os magnum ;' and the inferior by a large surfiice convex from side to side with the second metacarpal bone. The trapezoid articulates with four bones, viz., the scaphoid, trapezium, os magnum, and second metacarpal bone. The OS magmim is the largest of the carpal bones. In form it is elongated vertically, rectangular inferiprly, rounded superiorly. The articular surface of the superior extremity or liead is prolonged on the outer, but not on the inner side, and is continued further down behind than in front. A 'neck is formed beneath by depressions on the anterior and posterior surfaces. The anterior surface of the bone is much nar- rower than the posterior. The posterior surface projects downwards at its internal inferior angle. On the outer side beneath the surface for the scaphoid is a short surface for the trapezoid bone ; and on the inner side is a yertically elongated surface which articulates with