THE EADIAL ARTERY. 413 from which proceed numerous small offsets to supply the matrix of the nail and all the structures at the tip of the finger. [The varieties observed in the branches of the superficial ijrJniar arch will be noticed after the description of the deep arteries of the hand.] EADIAL AKTSEY. The radial artery appears by its direction to be the continuation of the brachial, although it does not equal the ulnar in size. It extends along the front of the fore-arm as far as the lower end of the radius, below which it turns round the outer border of the wrist, and descends to the back of the space between the metacarpal bones of the thumb and fore finger : there it passes forwards into the palm of the hand, and crosses towards the inner side, so as to form the deep palmar arch. In consequence of the changes in its course, the direction and connections of the radial artery may be separately described in the forearm, on the WTist, and in the liand. In the forearm the radial artery, commencing at the point of bifur- cation of the brachial opposite the neck of the radius, descends at first somewhat obliquely outwards in a line with the brachial artery, and then nearly vertically along the outer part of the front of the fore- arm to the styloid process of the radius. Its course may be indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow to the narrow interval between the trapezium bone and the tendons of the extensors of the thumb, which can be readily felt on the outer border of the wrist. The radial artery is nearer to the surface than the ulnar, and is covered only by the common integument and fascia, except where it is overlapped by the fleshy part of the supinator longus, which must be drawn aside in order to bring the vessel into view. At first it is in contact with the tendon of the biceps, and is supported by the fatty tissue contained in the hollow in the front of the elbow, which sepa- rates it from the short supinator muscle. It then rests in succession on the insertion of the pronator teres, the thin radial origin of the flexor sublimis, the flexor pollicis longus, the pronator quadratus, and the lower end of the radius. It is at this last point that the pulse is nsually felt during life. To the inner side of this vessel lie the pro- nator teres in the upper part of its course, and the flexor carpi radialis in the remainder ; and on the outer side, in its whole course along the fore-arm, is the supinator longus muscle. Relation to Veins.—The artery is accompanied by vente comites, which have the usual arrangement of those veins. Relation to Nerves.—The radial branch of the musculo-spiral nerve is placed on the outer side of the artery in the middle third of its course. At the elbow that nerve is separated from the artery by a considerable interval ; and towards the lower end of the fore-arm it turns back- wards beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, to reach the dorsal aspect of the limb, and thus loses all connection with the artery. Some filaments of the external cutaneous nerve pierce the fascia to reach the lower part of the artery, which they accompany to the back of the carpus. At the wrist the radial artery turns outwards between the styloid process of the radius and the carpus, beneath the tendons of the