TPvICEPS EXTEXSOR AXD AXCOXEUS MUSCLES. 207 Tening between tlie tendon and the most prominent part of the process. The middle or lonfi head arises from the lower part of the glenoid cayitv and an adjoining rough portion of the outer border of the scapula, by a tendon which spreads over the sides of the muscular structure proceed- ing from it. This head forms the middle and superficial part of the common mass, i^resenting a long flat tendon on its posterior surface inferiorly. The external head takes origin by tendinous and fleshy fibres along a line extending from the insertion of the teres minor, downwards on the outer border of the htunerus, as low as the musculo- spiral groove, and from an aponetirotic arch, formed by the external intermuscular septum, as it crosses the upper part of the groove : its fibres, which are comparatively short, descend obliquely to be inserted into the tendon of the middle part. The interned or eJeej) head, the shortest of the three, arises from the whole posterior surface of the humerus, beginning on the external aspect below the musculo-spiral groove, and on the inner aspect of the arm reaching by a pointed process as high as the insertion of tlie teres major : it also rises from the internal intermuscular septum in all its length, and fr'om the inferior ^portion of the external septum. Some of its lower fibres are inserted immediately into the olecranon, but the o-reater part of them join the deep surface of the common tendon. Xo muscular fibres arise from the musculo-spiral groove itself. Relations.—The long head of the triceps lies l^etween the t^o teres muscles above, and is in contact ^'it\\ the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The musculo- spiral nerve, and the superior profunda ai-tery. are deeplv imbedded in the muscle, and in the musculo-sphal groove, pass between the inner and outer heads. Yark'tk'S.—The most frequent varieties of the triceps muscles are the foUowing. viz. :—1. an additional or fourth head arising from the inner part of the humenis. above or near the inner head ; and 2. a slip of connection between the triceps and the latissimus dorsi, corresponding \rith the dorsi-cjjitroe/ilmj'is or accessorius triciplti which is common among quadi'umana. and exists in many other mam- mals. The cpitrocJiIt'o-anconeus of AVenzel Gmber is a small muscle observed by that author. Wood, and others, rising from behind the inner condyle, and inserted into the olecranon. Subanconeus.—On removing the triceps from the lovrer part of the humeiTis. some muscular fibres will be found passing from that part of the bone to the capsule of the elbow-joint. These fibres, which are analogous to the subcrureus in the lower limb, have been described as distinct fi'om the triceps under the name subanconeus. The anconeus muscle,, although placed chiefly below the elbow and in the forearm, is intimately connected with the triceps, and may be most appropriately associated in description with that muscle. It arises by a narrow tendon from the extremity of the outer condylar eminence of the humerus, at the posterior aspect. From this the fibres diverge from one another, the upper being transverse, the rest passing down- wards with increasing degrees of obliquity, and are inserted into the olecranon on its radial aspect, and into the adjacent impression on the upper third of the shaft of the ulna. Its superior fibres are parallel to the lowest fibres of the internal head of the triceps, and are generally in contact with them. BeJathns.—Tliis muscle is subcutaneous in its whole extent. Its deei) sui'face is in contact with the synovial membrane and external ligaments of the elbow- joint. Vnrlrfirs.—The anconeus varies chiefly in being more or less united tc the triceps or the extensor cai-pi ulnaris.