553 THE AUDITORY NEEYE. scalp ; to those of the mouth, nose, and eyelids ; and to the cutaneous muscle of the neck (platysma). It likewise supplies branches to the integument of the ear, to that of the side and back of the head, as well as to that of the face and the upper part of the neck. This nerve is connected freely with the three divisions of the fifth nerve, and with the submaxillary and spheno-palafcine ganglia; with the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumo-gastric nerves : with the auditory, and with parts of the sympathetic and the spinal nerves. Varieties.—The chorda tympani has been found more or less separate from the trunk of the lingual nerve, and m these cases it is very easy to trace the distribution of its terminal branches. Thus, in a case reported by Embleton (Journ. of Anat,, vol. vi., p. 217), the chorda applied itself to the inferior dental nerve, which it only left a line or two above the dental canal, and, passing on, divided into branches to the submaxillary and sublingual glands, and to the lingual nerve. AUDITOEY NERVE. The auditory nerve, or portio mollis of the seventh pair, is the special nerve of the organ of hearing, and is distributed exclusively to ths internal ear. Surface attachment.—The auditory nerves appear at the lower border of the pons, on the outer side of and close to the facial nerves. They are also connected with the lower edge of the pons opposite the restiform body, from the inner side or middle of which they emerge. Deep origin.—The fibres of the nerve divide into two nearly equal parts, of which one, posterior, winds i-ound the restiform body, while the other, anterior, passes through its substance. The chief nucleus of the nerve (inner nucleus) forms a convex prominence in the outer portion of the lower half of the floor of the fourth ventricle. Its transverse section is triangular, and it is composed of small, round, oval and triangular cells. The posterior portion of the auditory nerve, winding round the restiform body (with which it is connected;, reaches the outer part of this nucleus. The anterior division passes through the substance of the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum towards the apex of the inner nucleus. A few of its fibres join the inner nucleus; the majority, however, turn outwards to a netAvork of cells and fibres in the posterior portion of the restiform body (outer nucleus, Lockhart Clarke) to the outer side of the inner nucleus. Some of the fibres of this division turn outwards along the restiform body to reach the cerebellum, where they have been traced to the superior vermiform process. Both portions of the auditory nerve contain many nerve-cells: in the posterior portion they constitute a pyriform swelling at the anterior edge of the restiform body. Course.—As the auditory nerve is inclined outwards from its connec- tion with the medulla oblongata to gain the internal auditory meatus, it is in contact with the facial nerve, being only separated from it in part by a small artery destined for the internal ear. Within the meatus the two nerves are connected to each other by one or two small filaments, rinally the auditory nerve bifurcates in the meatus : one division, piercing the anterior part of the cribriform lamina, is distributed to the cochlea; the other, piercing the posterior half of the lamina, enters the vestibule of the internal ear. The distribution of these branches will be described with the ear.