283 SUPEA-HTOID MUSCLES. from the body of the os hjoides to the chin. It sometimes consists of two parallel bands, and Macalister suggests that it may be a differentiated portion of the platysma. The stylo-hyoid muscle lies close to tlie posterior belly of the digastric rauscle, being a little behind and beneath it. It arises from the outside of the middle of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and inclines downwards and forwards, to be inserted into the os hjoides at the union of the great cornu with the body. Its fibres are usually divided into two fasciculi near its insertion, for the transmission of the tendon of the digastric m^uscle. ridations.—The upper part of the stvlo-hjoid muscle lies deeply, being covered by the stemo-mastoid and digastric muscles, and by part of the parotid gland ; the middle crosses the external carotid artery ; the insertion is comparatively superficial. Varieties.—This muscle is sometimes Tranting ; occasionally a second is present (stylo-hyoideus alter,—Alb.) The position too may be varied—it has been found to the inner side of the external carotid arteiy instead of over that vessel. (" Tlie Anatomy and Operative Siu-gerj' of the Arteries," by R. Quain, plate 12, fig. 5. Macalister, Journal of Anat., vol. v., p. 28.) The niylo-hyoid muscle arises from the mylo-hyoid ridge along the inner surface of the lower jaw, extending fi'om the last molar tooth to the symphysis. The posterior fibres are inserted into the body of the Fig. 209.—A, THE Lower Jaw axd Hygib Bone, from beloav, witb. the Mylo-Hyoid ]\iuscles attached. B, THE SAME FROM BEHIND, WITH THE ]\IyLO- Hyoid and Genio-Hyoid Muscles attached. (A.T.) 1 a, the symphysis ; h, the angle of the lower jaw ; c, the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone ; d, in B, the inferior dental fora- men and iipper end of the mylo-hyoid ridge ; 1, 1', the mylo-hyoid muscles ; 2, 2', the genio-hyoid muscles from above ; 3, the cut ends of the attachment of the genio-glossi muscles to the superior genial spines. OS hyoides; the rest, proceeding parallel to the fibres behind, and becoming gradually shorter, join at an angle with those of the corres- ponding muscle, forming with them a sort of raphe along the middle line, from the symphysis of the jaw to the OS hyoides. "Thus the two muscles together form a floor below the anterioi- part of the mouth {diajiiu-agma oris of Meyer). licJ.ttid/t.^.—The loTver surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle is covered by the digastric muscle, the submaxillary gland, and the submental vessels and ner^'e. Tlie deep suiface which looks upwards and invrards, is in contact with the genio- hyoideus and part of the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the ninth and gustatory nerves, the sublingual gland, and the duct of the submaxillary gland. The posterior border alone is free and unattached, and behind it the duct of the submaxillary gland tunas, in passing to the mouth. Fig. 209.