408 ARTERIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. the pronator teres, both of which muscles it partly supplies. On reaching the front of the condyle, it anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic branches of the brachial. The posterior ulnar recurrent artery, larger than the preceding, comes off lower down ; but not unfrequently the two vessels arise by a short common trunk. The posterior recurrent runs inwards and backwards beneath the flexor sublimis, and then ascends behind the inner condyle. In the interval between that process and the olecranon it lies beneath the flexor carpi ulnaris, and passing between the heads of that muscle along the ulnar nerve, supplies branches to the muscles, to the elbow joint, and to the nerve itself. This branch communicates with the inferior profunda, the anastomotic, and, over the olecranon, likewise with the interosseous recurrent. Fig. 267. Fig. 267.—ViKw OF THE Anas- tomoses OP Arteries near THE Elbow-joint : A, from BEFORE ; B, FROM BEHIND (from R. Quain). ^ A. a, bracliialis anticus mus- cle ; by external condjdar eminence covered by the supi- nator radii brevis and the anas- tomoses of the superior profunda and radial recurrent arteries ; c, ulnar nerve ; d, median nerve ; e, musculo-spiral nerve; e', its posterior interosseous branch ; its radial branch is cut short ; /, oblique line of the radius ; 1, brachial artery ; 2, radial artery ; 3, ulnar artery ; 4, inferior profunda ; 5, anas- tomotic ; 6, anterior ulnar re- current anastomosing with the anterior descending branches of the anastomotic; 7, posterior ulnar recurrent passing up be- hind the inner condylar emi- nence to anastomose with the inferior profunda and posterior branch of the anastomotic ; 8, spiral branch of the superior profunda ; 9, placed on the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the radial recurrent artery; 10, 10, interosseous artery and its anterior brancli. B. a, a part of the brachialis anticus muscle ; h, external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint ; c, ulnar ner^^e ; d, a small part of the musculo-spiral nerve ; 1, superior profunda artery ; 2, its branch to the triceps muscle ; 3, its spiral branch to the outer condyle4, its anastomosis with the recurrent radial artery ; 5, recurrent of the posterior interosseous artery, passing up to anastomose with the preceding and with the anasto- motic, behind the 'joi^* ' ^» inferior profunda ; 7, posterior branch of tlie anastomotic artery ; 8, anastomosis of the anastomotic and inferior profunda with the superior pro- funda and the posterior interosseous recurrent ; 9, posterior ulnar recurrent artery pass- ing up in the groove of the ulnar nerve to anastomose with the inferior profunda and anastomotic. The interosseous or common interosseous artery, the next, and the largest branch of the ulnar, is a trunk of considerable size, about