620 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Cutaneous nerves.—The cutaneous branches, two or three in number, supply the skin on the back part and outer side of the leg. Fig. 379. Fig. 379.—Cutaneous Nkrves of the Outer Side of the Leg and Foot (from Sapi^ey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). ^ 1, external poi^liteal nerve ; 2, its external cutaneous branch ; 3, communi- cating branch which unites Avith 4, that from the internal iDopliteal, in 5, the ex- ternal saphenous nerve; 6, calcaneal branch of tlie external saphenous ; 7, external dorsal digital branch to the fifth toe ; 8, coUateral dorsal digital branch of the fourth and fifth toes ; 9, musculo- cutaneous nerve ; 10, its cutaneous branches ; 11, loop of union with the external saphenous ; 12, union between its outer and inner branches ; 13, an- terior tibial nerve, shown by the removal of a part of the muscles, and giving muscular branches superiorly ; 14, its terminal branch emerging in the space between tlie first and second toes, where it gives the collateral dorsal digital branches to their adjacent sides ; 15, branches to the peronei muscles. The2^eroneal commvyiicating hrancli (r. communico.ns fibularis), which joins the short so.phenous nerve below the middle of the back of the leg-, is the larg-est of these nerves. In some instances, it continues a separate branch and its cutaneous filaments reach down to the heel or on to the outside of the foot. Another cutaneous branch extends along- the outer side of the leg to the middle or lower part, sending offsets both backwards and for- wards. Muscnlo-Oacaneons IJerve.—The musculo-cutaneous (peroneal) nerve descends between the peronei muscles and the long extensor of the toes, and reaches the surface by poiforating the fascia in the lower part of the leg on the anterior aspect. It then divides into two branches, distinguished as external and internal, which proceed to the toes. The two branches sometimes perforate the fascia at a different height. {a) 3Iuscular tranches are given to the peroneus longus and peroneus brevis. (Jj) Cutaneous branches given off before the final division are distributed to the lower part of the leg. (e) The internal hranch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve, passing forwards along the dorsum of the foot, furnishes one branch to the inner side of the great toe, and others to the contiguous sides of the second and third toes. It gives other offsets, which extend over the inner ankle and side of the foot. This nerve communicates with, the long saphenous nerve on the inner side of the foot, and with the anterior tibial nerve between the first and second toes.