THE CRANIAL NERVES 556 and a third to the gang-lion of the root of the pneumo-gastric nerve. The last is not constant. There is sometimes likewise a filament from the digastric branch of the facial nerve, which, ]piercing the digastric muscle, joins the glosso-pharyngeal nerve be- low the petrous ganglion. The tympanla hrancli (nerve of Jacobson) arises from the petrous ganglion, and is conducted to the tympanum by a special canal, the orifice of which is in the ridge of bone between the jugular fossa and the carotid foramen. On the inner wall of the tympanum the nerve joins with a twig from the sympathetic forming a plexus (tympanic), and distributes filaments to the membrane lining the tym- panum and the Eustachian tube, as well as one to the fenestra rotunda, and another to the fenestra ovalis. From the tympanic nerve are given three connecting branches, by which it communicates with other nerves ; and which occupy channels given off from the osseous canal through which the nerve enters the tympanum. One branch enters the carotid canal and joins with the sympathetic on the carotid artery. A second is united to the large superficial petrosal nerve, as this lies in the hiatus Fallopii. And the third is directed upwards, beneath the canal for the tensor tympani muscle, towards the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, where it becomes the small ■petrosal nerve ; and under this name it is continued to the exterior of the skull through a small aperture in the sphenoid and temporal bones, to end in the otic ganglion. As this petrosal nerve passes the gangliform enlargement of the facial, it has a connecting filament with that enlargement, which is by some considered its principal posterior termination. Jacobson described an interior or internal branch from the t^-mpanic nerve to the spheno-palatine ganglion. Branches distributed in the neck.—The carotid Iranchcs course along the internal carotid artery, and unite with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric, and with branches of the sympathetic nerve. The pharyngeal branches, three or four in number, unite opposite the middle constrictor of the pharynx with branches of the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic to form ihQ pharyngeal plexus. Nerves to the mucous membrane of the pharynx perforate the muscles, and extend upwards to the base of the tongue and the epiglottis, and downwards nearly to the hyoid bone. The muscular branches are given to the stylo-pharyngeus and constrictor muscles. Tonsilitic branches.—When the glosso-pharyngeal nerve is near the tonsil, some branches are distributed on that body in a kind of plexus (circulus tonsillaris). From these nerve offsets are sent to the soft palate and the isthmus of the fauces. Lingual branches.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve divides into two parts at the border of the tongue. One turns to the upper surface of the tongue, supplying the mucous membrane at its base ; the other perforates the muscular structure, and ends in the mucous membrane on the lateral part of the tongue. Some fila- ments enter the circumvallate papillse. Variety. — In one case a branch from the glosso-pharyngeal supplied the mylo-hyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric, the normal mjio- hyoid nerve being wanting. (Guy's Hosp. Reports, vol. xiv., p. 436.) Summary.—The glosso-pharyngeal nerve distributes branches to the mucous membrane of the tongue, pharynx, tympanum, and Eustachian tube. The muscles supplied by it are some of those of the pharynx and base of the tongue. It is connected with the following nerves, viz., tlie lower maxillary division of the fifth, the facial, the pneumo-gastric (the trunk and branches of this nerve), and the sympathetic. II.—PNEUMO-GASTRIC NERVE. The pneumo-gastric nerve (nervus vagus, par vagum) has the longest course of any of the cranial nerves. It extends through the neck and tiie cavity of the chest to the upper part of the abdomen; and it