EOOTS OF THE SPINAL NERVES. 5C9 and, according to the region in which they issue from the spinal canal, they are named cervical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal. By universal'usage each pair of nerves in the dorsal, lumbar, and sacral regions is named in correspondence with the yertebra beneath which it emerges. Of the remaining eight pairs of nerves between the cranium and the first dorsal'nerve, the uppermost is placed above the atlas, and the second and following nerves below the seven cervical vertebra3 in succession. These eight pairs are usually reckoned as eight cervical nerves, but the first is also distinguished by the name of sub-occipital nsrve. The nerves of the thirty-first pair emerge from the lower end of the sacral canal, pass below the first vertebra of the coccyx, and are named coccygeal. Although the plan of counting- eight cervical nerves is continued in this work for the sake of convenience, it being that which is most frequently followed, it is by no means intended to represent this method as the best or as scientifically cor- rect. The phin of AVillis, Vvdio reckoned the sub-occipital as a cranial nerve, had at least the advantage that it made the numbers of the remaining seven cer- vical nerves correspond each with the vertebra beneath which it emerged, as do the dorsal, lumbar and sacral nerves ; and if the sub-occipital nerve, while recognised as the first spinal nerve, were to be kept distinct from the seven w]iich succeed, a more uniform system of nomenclature would l)e arrived at than that which is at jDresent in most common use. Varieties.—Sometimes an additional coccygeal nerve exists. Among seven cases which appear to have been examined with great care. Professor Schlemm (" Observat. Nenrologicas," Berolini, 1834) found two coccygeal nerves on each side in one instance, and on one side in ano&her case. In all the rest there was only a single coccygeal nerve on each side. THE ROOTS OF THE SPIiTAL XERVES. Each spinal nerve springs from the spinal cord by two roots which approach one another as they quit the spmal canal, and join in the corresponding intervertebral foramen into a single cord ; and each cord so formed separates immediately into two divisions, one of which is destined for parts m front of the spine, the others for parts behind it. Btructiirs.—The posterior roots of the nerves are distinguished from the anterior roots by their greater size, as well as by the greater thick- ness of the fasciculi of which they are composed. Each spinal nerve is furnished with a ganglion situated on the posterior root: but the first cervical or sub-occipital nerve is in some cases without one. The size of the ganglion is in proportion to that of the nerve on w^hich it is formed. The ganglia are in general placed in the intervertebral foramina, immediately beyond the points at which the roots perforate tlie dura mater lining the spinal canal. The first and second cervical nerves, how- ever, which leave the spinal canal, over the lamina3 of the vertebree, have their ganglia opposite those parts. The ganglia of the sacral nerves are contained in the spinal canal, that of the last nerve being occasionally at some distance from the point at which the nerve issues. The gan- glion of the coccygeal nerve is placed within the canal in the sac of dura mater, and at a variable distance from the origin of the nerve. The fibres of the posterior root of the nerve divide into two bundles as they approach the ganglion, and the inner extremity of the oval- shaped ganglion is sometimes bilobate^ the lobes corresponding to the two bundles of fibres.