SUKGICAL ANATOMY OF THE ILIAC ARTERIES. 453 into a sing-le vessel, which crosses the external iliac artery about ai? inch above Poupart's ligament, and enters the external iliac vein. Eranch.—The muscular branch is given off near the iliac crest, and ascends on the fore-part of the abdomen between the transversalis and internal oblique muscles : having- supplied those muscles, it anastomoses with the lumbar and epigastric arteries. This branch varies much in size, and is occasionally replaced b^ several smaller muscular offsets. Varieties.—Size.—The external iliac artery is much diminished in those rare cases in which the principal blood-vessel of the lower limb is continued from the sciatic branch of the internal iliac, and ends in the muscles of the front of the thigh, taking the place of the profunda. Brandies.—The usual numhcr of two principal branches of the external iliac ai-tery may be increased by the separation of the circumflex iliac into two branches, or by the addition of a branch usually derived from another source, such as the internal circumflex artery of the thigh or the obturator artery. The dec}} cjrlgastric artery occasionally arises higher than usual, as at an inch and a half, or even two inches and a half, above Poupart's ligament ; and it has been seen to arise below that ligament from the femoral, or from the deep femoral artery. The epigastric frequently furnishes the obturator artery as already described ; and two examples are recorded in which the epigastric artery arose from an obturator furnished by the internal iliac artery. (Monro, " Morbid Anatomy of the Human Gullet," &c., p. 427. A. K. Hesselbach, " Die sicherste Art des Bruchschnittes," &c.) In a single instance the epigastric artery was represented by two branches, one arising from the external iliac, and the other from the internal iliac arterj^ (Lauth, in " Velpeau's Medecine Operatoire," v. ii., p. 452.) Some combinations of the epigastric with the internal circumflex, or with the circumflex iliac, or with both those vessels, have been noticed. The decj) circumflex ilinc artery sometimes deviates from its ordinary position, —arising at a distance not exceeding an inch above Poupart's ligament. Devia- tions in the opposite direction are more rarely met with ; it has in a few cases been observed to arise below the ligament, from the femoral artery. SURaiCAI. ANATOMY OF THE ILIAC ARTERIES. The external iliac artery is usually tied about midway between the origins of the internal iliac and of the deep epigastric arteries. It is reached by a curved incision about three and a half inches long, made through the abdominal muscles an inch above and parallel to Poupart's ligament. After dividing the transver- salis fascia, the peritoneum (to which the spermatic vessels adhere) is raised, and the artery is found at the margin of the pelvis, running along the inner border of the psoas muscle. The vein is close to the artery, but on its inner and posterior aspect. In order to pass the ligature, it is necessary to divide the thin subserous membrane which binds the vessel down to the fascia iliaca. The internal iliac artery is reached by a similar but somewhat longer incision. The steps of the operation are the same, but owing to the shortness of the vessel, and the greater depth at which it is placed, the operation itself is more difficult. FEMORAL ARTERY. The femoral artery is that portion of the artery of the lower limb which lies in the npper two-thirds of the thigh,—its limits being marked above by Poupart's ligament, and below by the opening in the great adductor muscle, after passing through w^hich, the artery receives the name of popliteal. A general indication of the direction of the femoral artery over the fore-part and inner side of the thigh is given by a line reaching from a point midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the sym- physis of the pubes above to the inner side of the internal condyle of the femur below. At the upper part of the thigh, it lies along the middle of a depression between the muscles covering the femur on the