OBTURATOH FASCIA. PEEINEAL MUSCLES. 327 that organ, except at its base, where an angular furrow, occupied by large veins, exists between the prostate and bladder. Into this furrow the incision for lithotomy ought not to extend, on account of the danger from wounding the veins and from the infiltration of urine. A portion of the recto-vesical fascia invests the vesiculse seminales, and is extended across between the bladder and the rectum ; continuing into the mem- brane of the opposide side, it supports the bladder, and separates that organ from the intestine. On the rectum the fascia is also reflected upwards and downwards, gradually degenerating into a thin membrane over the surface of the bowel, as it likewise does on the bladder. c. The obturator fascia is a membrane stretched over the lower part of the surface of the obturator internus muscle within the pelvis. It is connected superiorly with the white band before referred to, which con- sists indeed of its superior fibres, and it is attached in the rest of its circumference to the rami of the piubis and ischium, the ischial tuber- osity, and the greater or lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. It lines the inner surface of the obturator internus muscle and presents between its fibres a canal, which contains the internal Dubic artery and nerve in their course to the perinseum. The obturator fascia is sometimes included in the description of the pelvic fascia, while the recto-vesical is considered as an offset from it. It will be founds however, on dissection, that the recto-vesical fascia is always most directly con- tinuous with the pelvic fascia, and that the obturator fascia is only loosely con- nected with it. Indeed, the fibres of the levator ani muscle in most cases pass upwards to some extent beyond the white line, and thus separate the obtuj:ator from the pelvic fascia. The iscMo-redal fossa is a pyramidal space occupied by subcutaneous fat. It is bounded externally by the obturator fascia, posteriorly by the gluteus maximus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligament, and internally by the recto-vesical fascia ; anteriorly, its base is limited by the margins of the perineal and the subpubic fasciae. In the female, the pelvic fascia is connected with the vagina in the same manner as with the other pelvic organs. Muscles.—The muscles of the perinasum differ somewhat in the two sexes, and must therefore be separately described in. each. In both sexes they may be divided into two groups, according as they are more immediately connected with the lower orifice of the alimentary canal or with the genito-urinary outlet. In both groups superficial and deep muscles are to be distinguished. A.—In the Male.—a. Anal Muscles.—The internal or circular sphincter is a thick ring of unstriped muscle connected with the lowest circular fibres of the rectum, which will fall more naturally to be described along with the anatomy of that organ. The superficial or external sphincter muscle is a thin layer of fibres placed immediately beneath the skin surrounding the margin of the anus. It is elliptical in form, about half an inch in breadth on each side of th e anus, and is attached posteriorly by a small tendon to the tip and back of the coccyx ; passing forwards on each side of the anus, it becomes blended anteriorly with the transverse and the bulbo-caver- nosus muscles at the ccnimlpoint of the iminmm, a name given to the depressed root situated in the male between the anus and the bulb of the urethra, and in the female between the anus and vulva.