169 INTERIOR OF THE KNEE-JOINT. tached inferiorly to the back of the pit behind the tibial spine, and superiorly to the fore part of the intercondylar hollow, as well as slightly to the side of the inner condyle of the femur; its fibres are directed upwards and a little forwards. The semilunar cartilages are two crescent-shaped interarticular fibro- cartilages, placed on the articulating surfaces of the head of the tibia, and interposed between these and the condyles of the femur. They have each a synovial surface above and below, and a convex border, which is thick, while the concave border is thinned to a fine edge, and the part of the articular surface of the tibia within the concave border of each cartilage is left uncovered. At their extremities they are fibrous, and are firmly fixed to the head of the tibia, whilst by the cir- cumference they are connected with the fibrous capsule of the joint. Fig. 151. Fig. 151.—YiEW OF THE Interarticular Fibro- Cartilages of the right Knee-Joint, from ABOVE, WITH THE CrUCIAL LiGAMENTS DIVIDED, AND THE LiGAMENTUM PATELL.E TURNED FOR- WARDS. (A. T). -g- 1, ligamentiim patella3 ; 2, the inner fibro- cartilage; 3, the outer one ; 4, the anterior tuber- osity of the tibia in front of the transverse liga- ment ; 5, the cut end of the anterior crucial liga- ment directed obliquely towards the outer side and backwards ; 6, the cut end of the posterior crucial ligament, from which fibres are seen descending to the outer fibro-cartilage ; 6', tibial attachment of the posterior crucial ligament ; 7, the head of the fibula; 8, the synovial surface of the tibia, which extends for some way downwards towards the tibio-fibular synovial sac, with which it is sometimes continuous. The internal semilunar cartilage forms nearly a semicircle ; its anterior cornu is small and pointed, and is inserted into an impres- sion at the fore and outer part of the internal articular surface of the tibia ; its posterior end is attached to the inner edge of the hollow behind the spine, and is in relation with the posterior crucial liga- ment. The external semilunar cartilage forms more than three-fourths of a circle ; its two cornua, fixed, one before, the other between the points of the spine of the tibia, are so close at their insertion that they may be said to be interposed between the attachments of the internal semilunar plate. Its external border is in contact behind with the tendon of the popliteus muscle, and is therefore separated by this from the fibrous capsule. From this fibro-cartilage a ligamentous band ascends, to be attached to the inner condyle of the femur in connection either in front or behind with the posterior crucial ligament {accessory land of the 2Wstcrior criicicd ligament). Transverse ligament.—Towards the front of the joint the convex borders of the interarticular fibro-cartilages are connected by a slight transverse band, which receives this name. Its thickness varies much in different bodies. Capsular memlbrane.—Under this name is described the fibrous tissue which invests the joint in the intervals between the stronger bands which have been named ligaments. It is incomplete, not extend- ing underneath the tendons of the extensor muscles. Between the sides