445 THE INTEEXAL PUDIC AETERl. lies externally to the ischio-rectal fossa and internally to tlie obturator internns muscle, and beneath the triangular ligament it is crossed by the deep transverse perineal muscle. Branches.—(«) The inferior or external 7i(rvwrrhoidol arteries, two or three in number, incline inwards from the puclic artery as it passes outside the ischio- rectal fossa above the tuber iscliii. These small vessels run across the ischio- rectal fossa, through the fat in that space, and are distributed to the sphincter and levator ani muscles, and to the parts sui-rounding the anus. (J>) The svjjei'Jicial j^crineal artery, a long, slender, but regular vessel, supplies. Fig. 285. Pig. 285.—View of the DisTniBUTioN of the Aeteeies to the Vcceea of the ^Iale- Pelvis, as seen git the removal of the Left Os Ixkomikatum, &c. (from R, Quain). ^ a, left external oblique muscle of the abdomen divided ; h, internal ooliqiie ; c, trans- versalis ; d, d, the parts of the divided rectus muscle ; e, psoas magnus muscle divided ; f, placed on the left auricular surface of the sacrum, points by a line to the sacral plexus of nerves ; g, placed on the os pubis, sawn throngh a little to the left of the symphysis, points to the divided spermatic cord ; h, the cut root of the crus penis ; i, the bulb of the urethra ; I', external sphincter ani muscle ; I, spine of tiie ischium, to which is attached the short sacro-sciatic ligament ; m, the parietal peritoneum ; 7i, the upper part of the urinary bladder ; 7i, n, the left vas deferens descending towards the vesicula seminalis ; ii", the ureter ; o, the intestines; 1, the common iliac at the place of its division into external and internal iliac arteries ; 2, left external ihac artery ; 3, internal iliac ; 4, obliterated h}Tpogastric artery, over which the vas deferens is seen passing, with the superior vesical artery below it ; o, middle vesical artery ; 6, inferior vesical artery, giving branches to the bladder, and descending on the prostate gland and to the back of the pubis ; 7, placed on the sacral plexus, points to the common trunk of the pudic and sciatic arteries ; close above 7, the gluteal artery is seen cut short ; 8, sciatic artery cut short as it is escaping from the pelvis ; 9, placed on the rectum, points to the pudic artery as it is about to pass behind the spine of the ischium ; 9'', on the lower part of the rectum, points to the inferior ha?morrhoidal branches; 9", on the perinffium, indicates the superficial perineal branches ; 9"', placed on the prostate gland, marks the pudic artery as it gives off the arteries of the bulb and of the crus penis ; 10, placed on the middle pai't of the rectum, indicates the superior hismorrhoidal arteries as they descend upon that viscus.