BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERT. 446 the scrotum and the upper part of the perinasum. Given off from the pudic artery in front of the hsemorrhoidal branches, it turns upwards parallel with the pubic arch, crosses the transverse muscle of the perinasum, and rims forwards under cover of the superficial fascia, between the erector penis and accelerator urin:e muscles, supplying- both. In this course the artery gradually becomes superficial, and is finally distributed to the skin of the scrotum and the dartos. Jt not unfrequently gives off the following branch. Fig. 286.—Dissection of THE Perineum in a Young Male Subject SHOWING THE BlOOD- Yessels, &c. (A.T.) a This drawing is made from a preparation upon a modification of the plan of R. Quain's 61st and 62nd Plates. The right side shows a superficial, the left a deeper view. a, the anus, with a part of the integument surrounding it ; h, left lialf of the bulb of the urethra exposed by the removal of a part of the bulbo-cavernosus muscle ; c, coccyx ; d, right tube- rosity of the ischium ; e, e, superficial perineal fas- cia passing forward upon the scrotum ; /, right ischio-rectal fossa, from which the fat and fascia have not been removed ; g, gluteus maximus mus- cle ; 1, placed on the right transversus perinaei muscle, points to the su- Tjerficial pex'ineal artery as it emerges in front (in this case) of the muscle ; 1', placed on the left side on the surface of the tri- angular ligament near its reflection into the super- ficial fascia, points to the superficial perineal artery cut short ; 2, on the right ischio-cavernosus muscle, points to the superficial perineal arteries and nerves passing forward ; 2', the same on the Jeft side, the vessels and nerves having been divided there ; 3, on the triangular ligament of the right side points to the transverse perineal branch of the superficial perineal artery ; 4, on the left tuberosity of the ischium, points to the pudic artery deep in the ischio-rectal fossa ; 5, 5', tlie inferior hjemorrhoidal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves ; 6, on the left side, placed in a recess from which the triangular ligament or anterior layer of the subpubic fascia has been removed to show the continuation of the pudic artery, its branch to the bulb, and one of Cowper's glands. (<:') The transverse lierineal ai-tery, a very small vessel, is frequently a branch .of the preceding, but in some instances arises from the pudic artery. It crosses the perinteum, and terminates in small branches which are distributed to the