MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. the under surface of the sustentaculum tah, being bound down to those bones by fibrous and synovial sheaths. Thence passing forwaiids and inwards, in the sole of the foot, it gives off a tendinous slip to the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, by which it is crossed, and proceeds in a fibrous sheath over the first phalanx of the great toe to be inserted into the base of the terminal phalanx. Belat'ions.—Tliis muscle is concealed for the most part by the soleus, a small part only at the outer side of the tendo Achillis being- covered by the fascia of the leg". Externally it is in contact with the peronei, and internally with the tibialis posticus. It rests upon the fibula and conceals the peroneal vessels. Below the ankle the tendon of this muscle is separated from that of the flexor long-us digi- torum by an interval of more than half an inch, in which are placed the pos- terior tibial vessels and nerves. In the sole it is covered by the plantar fascia and abductor poUicis muscle ; it is also crossed by the plantar vessels and nerves, and the tendon of the long flexor of the toes. It rests upon the flexor brevis pollicis. Varieties.—This muscle is liable to very few variations, but the mode of union of its tendon with that of the flexor longus digitorum is exceedingly variable. According to Turner, in no two subjects is it exactly similar. In almost every case the slip of union comes from the flexor pollicis, though in about one-sixth of the cases an additional slip proceeds from the flexor digitorum to the flexor pollicis (Turner, Wood). Complete separation of the tendons is very rare. This slip from the flexor pollicis most frequently passes to the second and third toes but it may pass to the second only, or to all the four outer toes. The i)eronco-calcaneus biternus is a small muscle described by MacaUster as the probable homot^q3e of the pronator quadratus of the arm. It arises below the flexor longus pollicis from an oblique line on the back of the fibula, behind the external malleolus, passes over the sustentaculum tali in the groove with the flexor pollicis, to be inserted into a tubercle of the os calcis (Muscular Anomalies, p. 125). Fig. 197.—Transverse Section of the PaaiiT Foot between the Tarsus and Metatarsus. A. T. 4 a, b, c, articular metatarsal surface of the internal, middle, and external cuneiform bones ; d and e, the surfaces of the cuboid bone for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; between these bones are seen the strong interosseous and plantar ligaments which bind them together ; 1, slip of the tendon of the tibialis anticvis, which passes on to its insertion on the first metatarsal bone ; 2, tendon of the extensor longus polHcis ; 3, slip of the extensor brevis digi- torum to the great toe ; 3', remainder of the ex- tensor brevis digitorum ; 4, four slips of the ex- tensor communis digitorum longus ; 5, peroneus tertius ; 6, peroneus brevis ; 7, peroneus longus cut obliquely where it is emerging from its sheath below the cuboid bone ; 8, tendon of the flexor longus polhcis ; 9, tendon of the flexor communis digitorum longus, with the slip of union from the flexor pollicis ; 10, flexor accessorius ; 11, abductor pollicis; 12, flexor brevis digitorum ; 13, abductor minimi digiti. The tibialis posticus muscle, placed between the two lonpf flexor muscles, arises from the whole interosseous membrane except for two inches at the lower end, and from the adjacent surfaces of the tibia and fibula, the tibial attachment extending from the superior tibio-fibular articulation to a point at a lower level than that of the flexor longus digitorum, and the attachment to the fibula extending along the three middle fifths of that bone ; it also arises from the aponeurosis derived