SPINAL ACCESSORY AXD HYPOGLOSSAL NERVES. 5C5 cells giving origin to the pneumogastric nerve. The lower or spin-al roots pass through the lateral column of the cord, and enter the grey substance midway between the anterior and posterior cornua. They then curve forwards into the anterior horn, and are believed to be connected with its large nerve-cells, especially with the outer group. Course and distribution.—The internal or accessorij }mrt^ the smaller of the two, joins in the foramen of exit the ganglion on the root of the pneumogastric, by two or three filaments ; and having passed from the skull, blends with the trunk of the pneumogastric beyond its second ganglion, as already said. It is stated by Bendz that a filament is given from the spinal accessory to the pharyngeal nerve above the place of junction with the pneumogastric, and the fibrils of the same nerve have been traced into each of the muscular offsets of the pneumogastric nerve. (Bendz, " Tract.de connexu inter nerv. vag. et acces." 1836.) The external 'portion of the nerve communicates with the accessory part in the foramen jugulare. After issuing fi-om the foramen, the nerve is du'ected backwards in front of the internal jugular vein, and perforates the sterno-mastoid m.uscle, supplying this with branches, and joining amongst the fleshy fibres with branches of the cervical plexus. Descendmg in the next place across the neck behind the sterno-mastoid, the nerve passes beneath the trapezius muscle. Here it forms a kind of plexus with branches of the third and fourth cervical nerves, and dis- tributes filaments to the trapezius, which extend nearly to the lower edge of the muscle. Varieties.—The spinal accessory nerve frequently passes behind the internal jugular vein. It has also been found to pass behind the sterno-mastoid muscle without piercing it (Turner, Nat. Hist. Review, 18G4). HI^TH PAIE OF NEEVES. The hypoglossal or ninth cranial nerve is the motor nerve of the tongue, and in part of some of the muscles of the neck. Burfac© attaclinient.—The nerve arises, by a series of fine roots, from the furrow between the anterior pyramid of the medulla and the olivary body. Beep origin,—The bundles of fibres pass backwards, through the inner part of the olivary body, to reach their nucleus, a column of large branching nerve-cells lying in front of and close to the central canal, as low as the decussation of the pyramids. Above, where the canal opens into the floor of the fourth ventricle, the nucleus comes to the surface, causing a prominence close to the middle line, a little above the point of the calamus scriptorius. Course and distribution.—The filaments by which this nerve arises from the medulla oblongata are collected into two bundles, which con- verge to the anterior condylar foramen of the occipital bone. Each bundle of filaments perforates the dura mater separately within the foramen, and the two are joined after they have passed through it. After leaving the cranium, this nerve descends almost vertically to the lower border of the digastric muscle, where, changing its course, it is directed forwards above the hyoid bone to the under part of the tongue. It lies at first very deeply W'ith the vagus nerve, to w^hich it is connected ; but passing between the internal carotid artery and tlie jugular vein, it curves forwards round the occipital artery, and then