320 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. fascia, termed cremasteric, which adheres to the fascia propria of the testicle. Sometimes the only fibres developed are a bundle descending from the outer attachment. In the female there may be almost constantly detected a small bundle of fibres descending on the round ligament of the uterus, which correspond with the last- mentioned fibres of the cremaster muscle of the male. The transversalis abdominis muscle, subjacent to the internal oblique, arises from the inner surface of the cartilages of the six lower ribs ; from a strong aponeurosis attached to the lumbar vertebra ; from the inner margin of the crest of the ilium in the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and from the iliac third of Poupart's ligament. The greater part of the fibres have a horizontal direction, and extend forwards to a broad aponeurosis in front ; the lowest fibres curve downwards like those of the internal oblique, and are inserted into the front of the pubis and into the pectineal line, through the medium of the conjoined tendon already described as common to this muscle and the internal oblique. The anterior ajjoneurosis of the transversalis muscle commences in the greater part of its extent at the distance of about an inch from the outer border of the rectus muscle ; but at its upper extremity it is much narrower, and there the muscular fibres of opposite sides approach nearly to the middle line behind the recti muscles. It becomes united with the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique forming the posterior wall of the rectus sheath, and inferiorly, where that aponeurosis passes entirely in front of the rectus muscle, it passes likewise in front of that muscle. The posterior aiwneurosis of the transversalis muscle extends back- wards between the last rib and the iliac crest, and opposite the outer border of the erector spinee muscle, becomes continuous with the lumbar aponeurosis. Yarictkff.—The transversalis has been found fused with the internal oblique (Soemmering) ; or entirely absent (Macalister). The spermatic cord has been seen to pierce its lower border (Guthrie). The rectus abdominis is a long flat muscle, consisting of vertical fibres, situated at the fore part of the abdomen, within a tendinous sheath, formed in the manner already described in the account of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique muscle; it is separated from the muscle of the other side by a narrow interval, which is occupied by a dense fibrous structure, the linea alba afterwards described. It arises from the upper margin of the pubis by a flat tendon consisting of two parts, of which the internal is much the smaller, and is connected with the ligaments covering the pubic symphysis, while the external one is fixed to the pubic crest. Expanding and becoming thinner at the upper end, the muscle is inserted into the cartilages of three ribs, the fifth, sixth, and seventh, usually by three distinct parts of unequal size. Some fibres also are generally found attached to the ensiform cartilage. The fibres of the rectus muscle are interrupted by three or more irregular tendinous intersections, named linec^ transversa:. The three which are most constant are placed, one opposite the umbilicus, another on a level with the ensiform cartilage, and the third intermediately between them : and these generally run across the whole muscle.