Fig. 22.—The Rteris-um op a middle-aged Fig. 22. A, from before, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, & 7, the BOXES OF THE THOEAX. The presfernwn is the thickest part of the bone. Its anterioi face presents a slight median elevation, its posterior is smooth and sur- Man, (A. T.) ^ articular surfaces for tlie corresponding costal cartilages : 8, manubrium or upper piece, still separate from the body; 9, middle of the body; 10, ensiform por- tion, osseous, and united to the body ; 11, inter-clavicular notch ; 12, articular notch for the clavicle. B, the same sternum viewed from the right side, showing the general convexity of the bone forwards. The different facets of articulation of the clavicle and costal cartilages will be distinguished by their I)osition in comparing the figure B. wiih A. somewhat concave. Its upper bor- der is divided into three deep notches ; the middle one is named the incisum semiluiiaris, or infers clavicuJar notch ; the lateral ones form two depressed articular sur- faces directed upwards and out- wards, for articulation with the clavicles. Each lateral border pre- sents superiorly close to the clavi- cular surface, a rough triangular sarface, which unites with the cartilage of the first rib. Below this the bone slopes inwards, and at its inferior angle presents a small surface, which with a similar one on the meso- sternum forms a notch for the cartilage of the second rib. The lower margin is straight and united by intervening cartilage to the upper margin of the mesosternum. The mesosternum is marked on its anterior surface by three slight transverse elevations at the lines of junction of its four component parts. Its posterior surface is comparatively smooth. Each lateral margin presents five notches for the reception of costal cartilages, and a small surface superiorly, which, with the similar depression on the presternum, forms the notch for the second costal cartilage. The notches for the third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages are opposite the lines of junction of the four segments of the body of the sternum ; those of the sixth and seventh are placed close together on the sides of the inferior segment, that for the seventh being frequently completed by the ensiform cartilage. The lower part of the presternum is some- times pierced in the middle line by a considerable hole. The metastemimi, ensiform process, or xyphisternum, is a thin spatula- like process projecting downwards between the cartilages of the seventh ribs. It is subject to frequent varieties of form ; being sometimes bent forwards, sometimes backwards, often forked, and sometimes perforated. Tlie stemmii is subject to many varieties. It is sometimes divided vertically in tlie whole or part of its length. It is not imfrequentiy much shorter than usual,