v 410 ARTEEIES OF THE UPPER LIMB. this met a car}} al branch arises as a separate vessel, the posterior carpal being then very small. Fig. 263. Fig. 268.—Abnormal Superficial Ulnar Artery RISING HIGHER THAN USUAL FROM THE BRACHIAL (from R. Quain, and from a preparation in Allen Thomson's collection), ^ a, biceps muscle covered by the deep brachial fascia ; h, the same fascia in the fore-arm, which has been opened in a considerable extent to show the radial artery subjacent to it ; c, median nerve ; d, ulnar nerve ; 1 on the biceps muscle, points to the brachial artery after having given off an ulnar artery higher up, and dividing at 1', into the radial artery and a deep vessel correspoud- ing to the interosseous and a part of the usual ulnar ; 2, on the supinator longus muscle, points to the radial artery ; 3, 3, artery which is given off by the brachial in the arm, and which descending upon the fascia takes the place of the ulna at the wrist ; 3', the same continued into the superficial palmar arch, giving off digital branches nearly in the usual manner, and joined by a branch from the radial, 4, the superficial volar ; 5, digital branches. The anterior ulnar carpal branch is a very small artery, which runs on the anterior sur- face of the carpus beneath the flexor pro- fundus, anastomoses with a similar offset from the radial artery, and supplies the carpal bones and articulations. Varieties.—Origin.—In the whole number of cases observed by Richard Quain, the ulnar artery- was found to deviate from its usual mode of origin, nearly in the proportion of one in thirteen. The brachial artery was, more frequently than the axil- lary, the source from which it sprang-; indeed, the examples of its origin from the main trunk at different parts appeared to decrease in number in proportion as the place of origin was higher up the artery. In one case of high origin of the ulnar artery the vessel was connected with the brachial opposite the elbow-joint by means of a transverse branch (Gruber, Reich. Arch., 1871). See, on this subject, the description of the varieties of the axillary and brachial arteries. Course.—The j^osition of the ulnar artery in the \ fore-arm is more frequently altered than that of I the radial. In cases of high origin, it almost invariably de- scends over the muscles arising from the inner con- dyle of the humerus, only one exception to this rale having been met with. (R. Quain, plate 36, fig. 2.) In one instance where it took this coui'se it divided just below the elbow into a superficial and deep branch (Gruber, loc. cit.). Most commonly it is covered by the fascia of the fore-ai-m ; but cases also occur in which the vessel rests on the fascia, and either continues in that position or becomes subaponeurotic lower down, while the vessel thus disposed is dis- tributed after the manner of the normal ulnar artery. The vessel from which