171 MOVEMENTS OF THE KNEE-JOINT. indication of the original separation of the sjoiovial membranes of the inner and outer joints, and the crucial ligaments may be looked upon as the external and internal lateral ligaments of those two joints respectively. Each portion of the articular surface of the femur belongs either to one or other of the three com- ponent joints of the knee, and no part is common to any two of them. On a well-marked femur, the inferior limits of the patellar surface are quite distin- guishable ; the line which separates this surface from the outer tibial joint passing directly between it and the condyle, and that which separates it from the inner joint being continued backwards, so as to cut off from the rest of the inner condyle a narrow tract at the side of the intercondylar fossa. Fig. 153. Fig. 153.—The superficial parts of the Knee-Joint removed, and the external Condyle of the Femur sawn off obliquely, together with half the patella, so AS TO expose BOTH THE CRUCIAL LIGAMENTS TOGETHER. (A. T.) 3 In A, the parts are in the position of extension, in B, that of flexion, the figures being designed to show the different state of tension of the crucial ligaments in these positions. 1, sawn surface of the femur ; 2, sawn surface of the patella; 3, ligamentum patellae; 4, anterior or external crucial ligament, tense in A, and relaxed in B ; 5, posterior or internal crucial ligament, relaxed in A, tense in B ; (5, internal, and 7, external semilunar cartilage ; 8, transverse ligament ; 9, articular surface of the tibia, extending behind the external semilunar cartilage ; 10, on the head of the fibula, points to the anterior superior tibio-peroneal ligament; 11, upper part of the interosseous membrane. The movement of the patella on the femur is one partly of gliding, partly of coaptation. This is illustrated by a careful examination of the articular surface of the patella, which is not uniformly curved from above downwards, as it would be, were the movement one of gliding only, but exhibits on each side of the vertical ridge three very slightly depressed surfaces, separated by two slight transverse elevations, and along the inner margin a seventh area, upon which -the transverse lines do not encroach (Goodsir.) When the knee is extended, and the patella drawn upwards by the extensor muscles, the two inferior facets of the patella are in contact with the upper margin of the femoral surface; in semiflexion the middle facets only are in contact with the femur ; in gi-eater flexion, the superior parts of the patella are in contact with the lower part of