AETICULATIONS OF THE UPPER LIMB. 146 inferior compartments of the joint are of different kinds. In the upper the fibro-cartilage glides backwards and forwards on the temporal bone ; in the lower compartment the condyle rotates on a transverse axis against the fibro- cartilage. In opening the mouth the two movements are combined : the jaw and fibro-cartilage together move forwards and rest on the convex root of the zygoma, while at the same time the condyle revolves on the fibro-cai-tilage. When the lower incisors are protruded beyond those of the upper jaw, the move- ment is confined chiefly to the upper articulation ; and when the same movement is alternately performed in the joints of opposite sides a horizontal, circular, or grinding motion is produced. The fibres of the external lateral ligament remain tight in opening the mouth, owing to the descent of the condyle when it passes forwards on the articular eminence. ARTTCULATIOIxTS OF THE UPPEB. LIMB. THE SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR ARCH. The supporting arch of the upper limb has only one point of attach- ment to the skeleton of the trunk, namely, that at the sterno-clavicular articulation ; the scapula being connected with the trunk only by muscles. The clavicle articulates at its inner end with the first bone of the sternum, and is connected by ligaments to its fellow of the opposite side and to the first rib. At its outer end it is united to the scapula. Sterno-Claviculae, Articulation.—The articular surface of the inner end of the clavicle is considerably larger than the opposing sur- face of the sternum. Between the two bones an interarticular fibro- cartilage is interposed. The anterior sterno-clavicTilar ligament, broad and consisting of parallel fibres, passes from the inner extremity of the clavicle in front, downwards and inwards, upon the anterior surface of the sternum. The posterior sterno-clavicular ligament, on the ]30sterior aspect of the joint, is of similar conformation to the anterior ligament, but is not so broad or strongly marked. The interclavicular ligament is a dense fasciculus of fibres passing over the sternal ends of both clavicles. It dips downwards in the middle, where it is attached to the interclavicular notch of the sternum. The interarticular fibro-cartilage, nearly circular in its form, and thicker above and at its margins than at the centre, is interposed be- tween the articulating surfaces of the sternum and clavicle. Towards its upper part it is attached to the inner and upper part of the clavicle, and at its low^er edge to the cartilage of the first rib. In the latter situation it is thin and prolonged outwards, beneath the inferior border of the clavicle. Synovial membranes.—In this articulation, as in that of the lower jaw, there are two cavities lined by synovial membrane, one on each side of the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament does not properly form part of the sterno-clavicular articulation; yet it contributes ma- terially to retain the clavicle in its situation. It is attached inferiorly to the cartilage of the first rib near its sternal end, and passes obliquely backwards and upwards, to be fixed to a rough depression at the under surface of the c avicle near the sternal end. Scapulo-Clavicular Articulations.—At its outer end the clavicle articulates with the acromion and coracoid processes of the scapula.