378 ARTEEIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 6arotid artery supply the anterior and greater part of the pia mater and brain. The antmoT cerebral^ comn?jflcing at the subdivision of the in- ternal carotid at the inner end of the fissure of Sylvius, turns forwards towards the middle line to reach the longitudinal fissure between the anterior lobes of the cerebral hemisphere, and is connected with the vessel of the opposite side by the anterior communicating artery, a branch not more than two lines in length. The two anterior cerebral arteries, lying close together, in the next place turn round the anterior border of the corpus callosum, run backwards on its upper surface, concealed by the cerebral hemispheres, and end by anastomosing with the posterior cerebral arteries. In their course they give numerous branches to the olfactory lobes and optic nerves, the under surface of the anterior lobes, the third ventricles, corpus callosum and inner surface of the hemisphere. The middle cerehral artery, larger than the anterior, inclines ob- liquely outwards, taking the course of the fissure of Sylvius; within this it divides into several branches, which ramify in the pia mater investing the surfaces of the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and join with the branches of both the anterior and posterior cerebral arteries. Numerous small branches, without ramifying in the pia mater, turn upwards at once, and enter the brain at the anterior per- forated spot, through which they reach the corpus striatum. One or two choroid arteries, which sometimes arise directly from the internal carotid, passing backwards, enter the fissure between the middle lobe and the crus cerebri, to reach the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, in which they are distributed to the choroid plexus. Varieties.—In rare instances, the anterior cerebral arteries have united into a single trunk, like the basilar artery behind, and have again divided into a right and left artery. The anterior communicating artery is frequently double. Frequently the posterior cerebral artery of one side arises by an enlarged pos- terior communicating artery from the internal carotid, and is connected only by- a slender vessel with the basilar. Circle of Willis.—A remarkable anastomosis exists between the branches of the vertebral and internal carotid arteries within the cranium, by which the circulation in the brain may be equalised, and any irregularity which might arise from the obliteration of one, or even two of the vessels, may speedily be remedied by a corresponding en- largement of the others. This anastomosis, known as the circle of Willis, results from a series of communications between the following branches. The anterior cerebral arteries are connected together, as already mentioned, in the longitudinal fissure by the anterior commu- nicating artery. The right and left internal carotids, the trunks from which the anterior cerebral arteries arise, are united by the pos- terior communicating arteries to the posterior cerebral arteries, which arise behind from a single trunk—the basilar artery. Within or opposite to the area of this vascular circle are the following parts of the encephalon, viz., the commissure of the optic nerves, lamina cinerea, infundibulum and tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, posterior per- forated spot with part of the crura cerebri, and the origin of the third pair of nerves. Distribution of the Arteries in the Cerebrum.—The recent researches of Duret and Heubner have thrown some additional light on the cu-culation in