THE FACIAL NERVE. 549 and separates in the gland, behind the ramus of the lower maxilla, into two primary divisions, the temporo-facial and the cervico-facial from which numerous branches spread out over the side of the head, the face, and the upper part of the neck, forming what is known as the pes anserinus." Distribution.—Within the temporal bone the facial is connected with several other nerves by separate branches ; and immediately after issuing from the stylo-mastoid foramen, it gives ofP three small branches, viz.^ the posterior auricular, digastric, and stylo-hyoid. Fig. 342.—The Facial Nerve Fig. 342. EXPOSED IN ITS CaNAL, WITH ITS Connecting Branches, &c. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). 5 The mastoid and a part of tlie petrous bone have been divided nearly vertically, and the canal of the facial nerve opened in its whole extent from the meatus internus to the stylo-mastoid foramen. The Vidian canal has also been opened from the out- side. 1, facial nerve in the horizontal part of the commence- ment of the canal ; 2, its s^econd part turning backwards ; 3, its vertical portion ; 4, the nerve at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; 5, geniculate ganglion; 6, laige superficial petrosal nerve passing from this ganglion to the splieno-palatine ganglion, and joined by the small internal petrosal branch ; 7, spheno-palatine ganglion ; 8, small superficial petrosal nerve; 9, chorda tympani; 10, posterior auricular branch cut short at its origin; 11, branch for the digastric muscle; 12, branch for the stylo- hyoid muscle ; 13, twig to the stylo-glossus muscle uniting wiLh muscular branches of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (14 and 15). "Connecting: BxsCxLches.—Filaments of vnioii ivith the anditorij nerve.—In the meatus auditorius one or two minute filaments pass between the facial and the trunk of the auditory nerve. Nerves connected with the ganr/liform enlargement.—About two lines from the beginning of the aqueduct of Fallopius, where the facial nerve sw^ells into the gangliform enlargement, it is joined by the large superficial petrosal branch from the Vidian nerve. This ganglion likewise receives a small branch from the small superficial petrosal nerve which unites the otic ganglion Avith the tympanic nerve of Jacobson. The nerve beyond the ganglion receives the external superficial petrosal nerve (Bidder), which is furnished by the sj'mpa- thetic accompanying the middle menmgeal artery, and enters the temporal bone by a canal external to that traversed by the small superficial petrosal. Chorda Tympani and Nerve to the Stapedius.—The nerve named chorda tympani leaves the trunk of the facial while within its canal, and crosses the tympanum to join the lingual branch of the fifth, along which it is conducted towards the tongue. It enters the back part of the tympanic cavity through a short canal emerging below the level of the pyramid, close to the ring of bone giving attachment to the membrame of the tympanum ; and being invested by the mucous lining of the cavity, it is directed forwards across the membrana tympani and the handle of the malleus, to an apertm-e at the inner end of the Glaserian fissure. It then passes downwards and forwards, under cover of the external pterygoid muscle, and uniting with the lingual nerve at an acute angle^