28 BONES OF THE THOEAX. two vertebrge, and, between them, a slight ridge, to which the inter- articular ligament is attached. At a little distance from the head, and separated from it by the slightly constricted neclc, is the iuherdc, which is directed backwards, and presents a smooth surface for articulation with the transverse process of the inferior of the two vertebra? with which the head is connected, and, outside that, a roughness marking the insertion of the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The whole extent beyond the tubercle constitutes the lody. It is laterally com- pressed, and broader fi'om above downwards towards the anterior extremity. Outside the tubercle, between it and the most convex part of the body, is a rough line, which corresponds to the outer border of the erector spinte muscle, and marks the angle, so-called because at this point the rib takes a more sudden curve, its direction being now for- wards and outwards. The inferior border presents on its inner aspect the siiMostal groove, in which lie the intercostal vessels and nerve, and which is best marked opposite the angle, and disappears in front. The anterior extremity is hollowed at its tip into an oval pit, in which the costal cartilage is implanted. IncJmation and Curves.—There is a general inclination of the ribs downwards from the head to the anterior extremity, the slope being greatest between the head and angle. The curve of the ribs is more marked towards the back part than in front, especially near the angle. Besides the main curves now mentioned the rib is somewhat twisted on itself, so that while its surfaces are vertical behind, they are placed somewhat obliquely in front. Special characters of certain ribs.—The ribs increase in length from tlie first to the eighth, and decrease from the ninth to the twelfth, so that the last is little longer, often even shorter, than the first. The first rib is the broadest, and after it the middle ones ; the twelfth is the narrowest. The distance of the angle from the tubercle increases gradually from the second to the eleventh ; in the first the angle coincides with the tubercle, in the last it is effaced. The first rib is not twisted, and is so placed that its superficial and deep surfaces look respectively nearly upwards and downwards. The head is small, and presents a single articular surface. The neck is round and slender. It articulates with the body and transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra alone. On the superior surface are two very slight smooth depressions with an intervening rough mark, and a considerable rough surface behind. The rough surface marks the attachment of the scalenus medius muscle, the posterior depression the position of the subclavian artery, the anterior depression the subclavian vein ; and the intervening slight elevation, frequently terminating in a sharp spine on the inner edge—the scalene tubercle—indicates the attachment of the scalenus anticus muscle. The second rib, longer than the first, presents externally a prominent roughness which marks the attachment of the serratus magnus. . The elemnfh and twelfth ribs have no groove on the inferior border, no articular facet on the tubercle, and only a single articulating surface on the head. The mark of the angle is scarcely perceptible on the eleventh, and is absent from the twelfth. Varieties.—The number of the ribs is sometimes increased to thirteen on one or both sides. The supernumerary rib is most frequently very short, and is