542 THE CEANIAL NERVES. be prolonged into it, psisses backwards through the Vidian canal, and after emerging from this divides in the substance or the fibro-cartilage, which fills the foramen lacerum medium, into two branches : one of these, the superficial petrosal, joins the facial nerve, while the other, the caiotid branch, communi- cates with the sympathetic. "Whilst the Vidian nerve is in its canal, it gives inwards some small nasal branches, which supply the membrane of the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, as well as the membrane covering the end of the Eustachian tube. The large siipcrjicial jn'trosal hranch of the Vidian nerve, entering the cranium on the outer side of the carotid artery and beneath the Gasserian ganglion, is di- rected backwards in a groove on the petrous portion of the temporal bone to the hiatus Fallopii, and is thus conducted to the aqueductus Fallopii, where it ]oms the gangliform enlargement of the facial nerve. The carotid or sip'ijwtlu^nr jivrtwii of the Vidian nerve, shorter than the other, 13 of a reddish colour- and softer texture ; it is directed backwards, and on the outer side of the carotid artery ends in the filaments of the sympathetic surround- ing that vessel. In accordance with the view taken of the ganglia connected witli the fifth nerve (p. 536). the superficial petrosal and carotid parts of the Vidian nerve may be regarded as the motor and sympathetic roots respectively of the spheno-pala- tine ganglion ; the spheno palatine being its sensory root. The pharyiujrnl nerve is inconsiderable in size, and, instead of emanating directly from the ganglion, is frequently derived altogether from the Vidian. This branch, when a separate nerve, springs from the back of the ganglion, enters the pterygo-palatine canal with an artery, and is lost in the lining membrane of the pharynx behind the Eustachian tube. Summary.—The supeijor maxillary Dcrve, with Meckcrs ganglion, supplies the iniegument above the zygomatic aich, and that of the lower eyelid, the side of the nose, and the upper lip ; the upper teeth, the lining membrane of the nose ; the membrane of the upper part of the pharynx, of the antrum of Highmore, and of the posterior ethmoidal cells ; the soft palate, tonsil, and uvuhi, and the glandular and mucous structures of the roof of the mouth. III.-INFERTOR MAXILLARY NERVE. The lower maxillary nerve, the third and largest division of the fifth nerve, is made up of two portions, unequal in size, the larger being derived from the Gassenan ganglion, and the smaller being the slender motor root of the fifth nerve. These two parts leave the skull by the foramen ovale in the sphenoid bone, and unite immediately after their exit. A few lines beneath the base of the skull, and under cover of the external pterygoid mu.scle, the nerve separates into two primary divisions, one of which is higher m position and smaller than the other. ThesmalJ, anterior,or upperportw)?, chiefly motor, terminates m branches to the temporal, masseter, l3i]Ccinator, and pterygoid muscles. The larger or /o?m"portion, chiefly sensory, divides into the auriculo-temporal, lingual or gustatory, and inferior dental branches ; it likewise supplies the mylo-hyoid muscle, and the anterior belly of the digastric. The branch to the internal pterygoid muscle, with which also are connected those proceeding from the otic ganglion to the tensors of the palate and tympanum, is sometimes counted as a part of the larger division, but is more correctly regarded as arising from the undivided trunk. Beep temporal, masseteric and pterygoid "branclies,—The deep temporal branches, two in number, an tenor and posterior, pass out- wards above the external pterygoid muscle, close to the bone, and run upwards, one near the front, and the other near the back of the