ETHMOID BOXE. 45 ETHMOID BONE The ethmoid, or sieve-like bone, projects downwards from between the orbital plates of the frontal bone, and enters into the formation of the cranium, the orbits, and the nasal fossae. It is of a cuboid figure. It is exceedingly light for its size, being composed of yerj thin plates of bone forming in part irregular cells. It consists of a central vertical plate, and of two lateral masses, the ethmo-turMnals, united at their superior extremities by the horizontal cribriform lamella. It articulates with thirteen bones ; the frontal, sphenoid and vomer, the nasal, lachrymal, superior maxillary, palatal, and inferior turbinated bones. The vertical plate lies in the mesial plane, and forms the upper part of the septum of the nose. Its superior margin appears in the cranial cavity, above the cribriform lamella, in the form of a ridge Pig. 38.—The Ethmoid Boite. (A. T.) | A, from the right side. 1, ciista galli ; 2, vertical plate ; 3, cribriform plate and foramina ; 4, orbital plate or os planum ; 5, 5, the uncinate process ; 6, the superior, and 7, the inferior turhinated bone ; 8, the anterior, and 9, the posterior ethmoidal groove or foramen. B, the ethmoid bone from behind. The in- dications where marked are the same as in A. 10, the lateral or cellular part of the bone ; 11, its posterior surface of union with the sphenoidal turbinated and palate bones. which rises anteriorly into a thick process, the crista galli, to wdiicli the falx cerebri is attached. The an- terior margin of the crista galli is vertical and broad, usually present- ing a groove, wdiich completes the foramen cascum of the frontal bone. Below the level of the cribriform lamella, the anterior margin of the vertical plate articulates with the nasal spine of the frontal and occasionally with the nasal bones. The inferior margin articulates in front, and sometimes even in its whole extent, with the septal cartilage of the nose ; and in its posterior half, in the adult, it is more or less completely joined by osseous union on one or both sides to the two plates or alas of the vomer. The posterior margin is very thin, and is united to the crest of the sphenoid. This plate presents superiorly a number of grooves and minute canals leading from the foramina of the cribriform lamella, for the transmission of the olfactory nerves. The lateral masses enclose a number of spaces of irregular form;^ arranged in two sets, the anterior and imsterior ethmoidal cells, which in the recent state are lined with prolongations of the mucous membrane of the nose. On the external aspect of each lateral mass is a thin, smooth lamina, of a quadrilateral form, the orlital plate or OS planum, which closes in the ethmoidal cells, and forms a consider-