BONES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 110 for the patella. The patellar surface is of a trochlear form, being- marked by a vertical hollow and two prominent ridges ; the external portion of this surface is more prominent, and rises higher than the internal. The tibial surfaces are nearly parallel, except in front, where the internal turns obliquely outwards to reach the patellar surface. Above the condyles are two rough tuberosities, one on each side of the bone, which give attachment to the external and internal lateral liga- ments of the knee-joint. Between the external tuberosity and the back part of the external condyle is a smooth groove directed downwards and forwards, and ending anteriorly in a pit, in which the popliteus muscle takes origin. In, tlic female tlie angle made by the neck of the femur with the shaft is less obtuse than in the male ; and from the greater width of the pelvis, and the shortness of the limbs, the convergence of the thigh bones inferiorly is more apparent. In adcancerl age the neck comes to be placed at a less obtuse angle than in middle life, and at last may almost assume a rectangular position in regard to the shaft. (See Holden's Osteology.) THE PATELLA. Tlie patella, rofida, or knee-pan, is situated at the front of the knee joint, is attached inferiorly by a ligament or tendon to the tibia, and Fig. 98.—UiGHT Patella. (A. T.) ^ Fig. 98. A from before ; B, from behind. Both views show the lower extremity pointing slightly inAvards ; the posterior view shows the articular cartilaginous surface, divided by an elevated ridge into a smaller internal and a larger external part. may be considered as a sesamoid bone developed in the tendon of the quadriceps extensor cruris. It is compressed from before backwards, and has the form of a triangle with the apex below. Its anterior sur- face is subcutaneous ; the superior border is broad, and gives attachment to the extensor muscles ; its inferior angle, together with a rough depression on its deep aspect, gives attachment to the ligamentum patella3. The deep surface, except at the inferior angle, is coated with cartilage for articulation with the femur, and is divided by a vertical elevation into two parts, the ex- ternal of which, the larger, is transversely concave, while the internal is convex. THE TIBIA. The tibia, or shin bone, is, next to the femur, the longest bone in the skeleton. It is the anterior and inner of the two bones of the leg, and alone communicates the weight of the trunk to tlie foot. It arti- culates with the femur, fibula, and astragalus. The superior exfremitij is thick and expanded, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and slightly hollowed posteriorly. On its superior aspect are placed two slightly concave articular sur- faces, which sustain the femur. These are the condylar surfaces; they