519 THE CEANIAL XERYES. Section V.—NEUEOLOGY. The nervous system consists of central and peripheral parts. To the first belong those large masses of nervous substance forming the brain and spinal cord, or great cerebro-spinal centre ; and to the second belong the various nervous cords, cerebro-spinal and sympathetic, which are distributed in different parts of the body. Along with these the nervous system also includes the organs of the external senses and the ganglia. The description of the cerebro-spinal centre and of the organs of the senses will be given in the Second Yolume. The present section in- cludes the descriptive anatomy of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic nerves, and of the ganglia connected with them. THE CEREBRO-SPINAL NERVES. The nerves directly connected with the great cerebro-spinal centre constitute a series of symmetrical pairs, of which a certain number issue from the cranium through difl^rent foramina or apertures in its base, and are thence strictly named cranial. The next following nerve passes out between the occipital bone and the first vertebra, and the remaining thirty nerves all issue below the corresponding vertebral pieces of the spine. The first is sometimes distinguished by the name of suboccipital, but to the whole series of thirty-one nerves the name of sjjinal is usually given. CRAIJIAIi SERVES. The cranial nerves, besides being distinguished by numbers in the order of their passage through the dura mater lining the cranium, have likewi.^e received other names, according to the place or mode of their distribution, or their functions. The number of the cranial nerves has been variously stated as nine or as twelve by Willis and Soemmerring respectivel}^ Of the nine pairs of cranial nerves distinguished by Willis, or twelve as enumerated by Soemmerring, the first six and the last correspond, but the seventh of Willis is divided into two by Soemmerring, viz., the seventh and the eighth pairs, or the facial and the auditory nerves, while the eighth of Willis falls, in the more modern arrangement, into three distinct nerves, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh, or the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves, as in the following table :— Other Names. Olfiictoiy nerves. Optic, Common oculo-motor. Pathetic or trochlear. Trifacial or trigeminal. Abducent ocular. Facial motor Auditory. Grlosso-pharyngeal. Pneumo-gastric. Spinal accessory. Hypoglossal cr lingual motor. WILLIS. First pair of nerves . Second Third Fourth „ Fifth Sixth Seventh Eighth Ninth (portio dura . " \ portio mollis ( n. vagus ' n.accessorius SCEMMEEEING. First pair of nerves Second Third Fourth Fifth Sixth Seventh Eighth Ninth Tenth Eleventh Twelfth