EADIO-ULNAE AETICULATIONS. 151 cartilage is a thick plate attached by its base to a ridge separating the carpal from the uhiar articulating surface of the radius ; and by its Fig. 136.—The tjppeb, part op the Ulna, with the Fig. 1-36. Okbicular Ligament of the Radius, i 1, upper division of tlie sigmoid surface on the olecranon ; 2, extremity of the coronoid process ; 5, orbicular ligament. apex to a depression at the root of the styloid process of the ulna, and to the side of that pro- cess. Its upper surface looks towards the ulna, its lower towards the cuneiform bone, and it separates the inferior radio-ulnar articulation from the wrist-joint. The synovial mem- brane, sometimes called from its looseness mem- brana sacciformiSy extends upwards between the radius and uhia, and horizontally inwards between the ulna and triangular fibro-cartilage. When the fibro-cartilage is perforated, as is occasionally the case, this synovial cavity communicates with that of the wrist-joint. The interosseous membrane or ligament of the forearm is a thin. Fig. 137.—The lower parts of the Hadius and Ulna, with the Triangular Fibro-Cartilage connecting tiiem. § 1, ulna ; 2, its styloid process ; 3, radius ; 4, articular'surface for the scaphoid bone ; 5, that for the semilunar bone ; 6, lower surface of the tri- angular fibro-cartilage ; * *, a piece of whalebone passed between the fibro-cartilage and the ulna. flat, fibrous membrane, the direction of whose fibres is for the most part ob- liquely downwards and inwards, from the interosseous ridge of the radius to that of the ulna. Its superior border is placed about an inch below the tubercle of the radius, leaving an open space above (hiatus interosseus) through which the posterior interosseous vessels pass. This space is diminished in size by the round or obligue ligament, a thin, narrow fasciculus of fibres extending obliquely downwards and outwards from the coronoid process, to be attached to the radius about half an inch below the tubercle. Other small bundles of fibres, having the same direction as the round ligament, are often to be found at intervals, decussating with the fibres of the interosseous ligament on its posterior surface. Movement of the Badius on the Ulna.—The disposition of the annular ligament allows the head of the radius to rotate freely within it, while the lower end of the radius, bound by the triangular fibro-cartilage to the styloid process of the ulna, has a freedom of circumduction round that point, by which the hand is Ijrought into the prone or the sui^ine position. Tlius in pronation and supination the radius describes a part of a cone, the axis of which