THE CRANIAL NERVES. 534 and are entirely sensory, while the third or inferior maxillary trunk, receiving a considerable part from the ganglion, has associated with it also the whole of the fibres of the motor root, and thus distributes both motor and sensory branches. I.—OPHTHALMIC NEBVE, The ophthalmic nerve, or first division of the fifth nerve, the smallest of the three offsets from the Gasserian ganglion, is somewhat flattened, about an inch in length, and is directed forwards and upwards to the sphenoidal fissure, where it ends in branches which pass through the orbit to the surface of the head and to the nasal fossae. In the skull it is contained in the process of the dura mater bounding externally the cavernous sinus, and is jonied by filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic : according to Arnold, it gives recurrent branches to the tentorium cerebelli. It also frequently communicates by a con- siderable branch with the fourth nerve. Branches.—Near the orbit the ophthalmic nerve furnishes from its inner side the nasal branch, and then divides into the frontal and lach^ rymal branches. These branches are transmitted separately through the sphenoidal fissure, and are continued through the orbit (after supplying some filaments to the eye and the lachrymal gland) to ttieir final distribution m the nose, the eyelids and the muscles and integu- ment of the forehead. Lachrymal branch.—The lachrymal branch is external to the frontal at its origin, and is contained in a separate tube of dura mater*. In the orbit it passes along the outer part, above the muscles, to the outer and upper angle of the cavity. Near the lachrymal gland, the nerve has a connecting filament with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve ; and when m close apposition with the gland, it gives many filaments to that body and to the conjunctiva. Finally, the lach- rymal nerve penetrates the palpebral ligament exiernaily, and ends in the upper eyelid, the terminal ramifications being joined by twigs froui the facial nerve. Varieties.—Turner records a case la which on one sido the lachrymal nerv-i was absent, and the gland was supplied by a twig- from the orbital branch of the superior maxillary; on the other side the lachrymal was small., and wa3 supplemented by a branch from the orbital. (Journal o£ Anat, vol. vi, p. 101.) In consequence of the junction which occurs between the ophthalmic trunk of the fifth and the fourth nerve, the lachrymal branch sometimes appears to be derived from both these nerves. Swan considers this the usual condition of the lachrymal nerve. (" A demonstration of the Nerves of the Human Body,'' page 36. London, 1834.) Frontal branch.—The frontal branch, the largest division of the ophthalmic, lies, like the preceding nerve, above the muscles m the orbit, being situated between the elevator of the upper eyelid and the periosteum. About midway forwards in the orbit, the nerve divides into two branches, supratrochlear and supraorbital. a. The supratrochlear Iranch (internal frontal) is prolonged to the inner angle of the orbit, close to the point at wliich the pulley of the upper oblique muscle is fixed to the orbit. Here it gives downwards a filament to connect it with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve, and issues from the cavity between the orbicular muscle of the lids and the bone. In this position filaments are distributed to the upper eyelid.