'VEETEBRAL COLUMN. Fig. 15.—Vertebral Column op an Adult Male, SEEN FROM BEHIND (A. T.). | C 1 to above D 1, the seven cervical vertebrse ; D 1 to above L 1, the twelve dorsal vertebr£e ; L 1 to above S 1, the five lumbar vertebrae ; S 1 to above CO 1, the sacrum ; CO 1, and. below, the four coccy- geal vertebrce. The transition in the form of the trans- verse processes and tubercles is Avell marked in this specimen. The vertebral column as a whole.— The vertebral column may be regarded as a central colmnn npon which the other parts of the skeleton are arranged. Superiorly it supports the skull, laterally the ribs, through which also it receives the weight of the upper limbs, and near its lower extremity it rests upon the pelvic bones, by which it transmits the weight of the body to the lower limbs. It is a pillar of support to the rest of the skeleton, and protects the spinal cord by enclosing it in a bony canal. Its average length is about 28 inches. When seen in profile the column presents four curves, directed alternately forwards and backwards,—forwards in the cervical and lumbar regions, backwards in the dor- sal and sacral. The cervical and lumbar convexities are produced by the greater thickness of the anterior over the posterior parts of the intervertebral discs, and in the case of the latter also by the greater depth of the fifth lumbar body anteriorly, while in the dorsal and sacral concavities, the bodies of the vertebrse are thinner in front than behind. These curves are connected with the maintenance of the erect posture, and give to the column greater elasticity and security from injury than it would have were it perfectly straight. In the dorsal region also there is very frequently a slight degree of lateral curvature, the convexity of which, in most cases, is directed towards the right side, and is probably connected with the greater use made of the right than of the left arm. Viewed in front, the bodies of the vertebra are seen to become broader fi'om the axis to the first dorsal, then slightly narrower to the fourth dorsal, and from that ver- tebra they gradually widen to the base of the sacrum. The width between the ex- tremities of the transverse processes is con- siderable in the atlas ; small in the axis, it