MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AXD XECK. 270 subcutaneous, except at its origin, where the orbicularis palpebrarum overlaps it a little. Fig. 203. Fig. 203.—Muscles op the side op the Nose and Upper Lip. | 1, pyramidalis. nasi ; 2, levator labii superioris alceque nasi ; 3, compressor naris or triangularis; 4, levator proprius alee nasi anterior ; 5, levator proprius alo3 nasi posterior or dilatator ; 6, depressor alse nasi ; 7, orbicu- laris oris ; 7*, naso-labialis. The depressor alas nasi is a small flat muscle which arises from the superior incisor fossa, and is inserted into the septum and posterior part of the ala of the nose. "The external fibres curve forwards and downwards to the ala. Besides the muscles above described there are other irregular and often indistinct fibres which cover the small alar cartilages of the nose. Of these the following may be dis- tinguished. The levator proprius alse nasi posterior, or dilatator naris pos- terior, is attached to the margin of the ascending process of the superior maxillary bone and the smaller (sesamoid) cartilages of the ala nasi on the one hand, and to the skin on the otlier. Another set of fibres, the levator proprius alse nasi anterior, or dilatator naris anterior, is interposed between the cartilage of the aperture of the nose and skin, to both of which it is attached. The musculus anomalus of Albinus is a longitudinal muscular slip of more than an inch in length, lying beneath the common elevator of the lip and ala of the nose, con- nected by the lower end with the origin of the compressor naris, and attached exclusively to the superior maxillary bone. Varieties.—The compressor naris is sometimes very slightly developed, or even reduced to an aponeurotic condition. The dilators and depressor of the nostril are also subject to considerable variations in strength and in the mode of their attachment. Actions.—The pyramidalis nasi muscle, being continuous with the frontalis, is the means of giving that muscle a more fixed attachment to the dorsum of the nose, and assists in drawing do"RTi the integument of the forehead, and in pro- ducing wrinkles across the root of the nose ; it probably acts also as an opponent to the compressor naris muscle. The compressor naris, acting along with its fellow of the other side, depresses the cartilaginous part of the nose, and to some extent also compresses the al^ together. The actions of the other muscles are sufficiently indicated by their names ; the dilatation of the alee is perceptible in natui-al inspiration, and is well marked in dyspnoea. MUSCLSS OF THE LIPS AlsD MOUTH. Around the orifice of the mouth are situated an orbicular muscle with concentric fibres, and numerous other muscles, whose fibres con- verge towards the aperture, viz., superiorly the common elevator of the hp and nose already described, the proper elevator of the upper lip, the elevator of the angle of the mouth and the zygomatic muscles, laterally the risorius and buccinator muscles, and, inferiorly, the depressor of