ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK. 136 The joints of tlie articulating processes present each a synovial cavity surrounded by an irreguhir iibrous capsule. The fibrous bands Fig. 120.—The Arches op three Dorsal Veu- TEBR.^;, SEEN FROM BEFORE. g Tlie bodies of tlie vertebrce have been removed by sawing through the pedicles, to show the articular capsules and the ligamenta subflava. of these capsules are longer and looser in lamina of one vertebra near the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The ligamenta siiMava are ligaments consisting of yellow elastic tissue, which connect the laminse of the vertebrae. Their fibres are nearly vertical, and are attached superiorly to the anterior surface of the its inferior margin, and inferiorly to the upper margin and part of the posterior surface of the lamina of the Fig. 121. Fig, 121.—Antbro-Posterior Vertical Sec- tion OP THE UPPER PART OP THE VeRTEBRAL Column, and part of the Occipital Bone, SHOWING THE ARTICULATIONS. (A. T. after Arnold.) 1, 1, anterior common ligament of the bodies of the vertebne ; 1', anterior atlanto-occipital ligament ; 2, from this figure upwards the pos- terior common ligament of the bodies ; 2', the continuation of the preceding or apparatus liga- mentosns lying on the basilar process of the occipital bone ; 3, 3, 3, tliese figures are placed on the inside of the arches of the 2nd cervical and 1st and 6th dorsal vertebra? ; the ligamenta subflava are to be seen stretching between the laminae ; 4, 4, placed upon two of the intsr- spinous ligaments ; 4' divided edge of the occipital bone behind the foramen magnum, and below it, the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament ; 5, 5, supraspinous ligaments ; 6, ligamentum nuchre ; +, its upper extremity at the occipital tuberosity ; + +, its lower extremity terminat- ing in the supraspinous ligaments of the upper dorsal vertebraa. vertebra beneath. They are most dis- tinctly seen when the arches are de- tached from the bodies of the vertebra?, and they are viewed from the front. Posteriorly they appear short, and in the dorsal region are concealed by the prominent inferior margins of the laminae and the roots of the spines. Their outer margins are close to the articulating processes ; their inner margins are thickened and in contact with each other beneath the root of the spinous process. - The ligamenta subflava do not exist between the occiput and the