i22 VERTEBRAL COLUMX. each vertebra, epiphysial plates are formed after puberty, as in other vertebrse, and two flat irregular plates of bone are added to each lateral surface of the sacrum, the uppermost of which extends over the sides of the first two or three, while the lower connects the remaining two. These appear from the 18th to the 20th year, and are united about the 2oth. The bodies of the sacral vertebrje are at first separated by intervertebral plates, but about the 18th year, in the case of the lower vertebras, ossification begins to extend through these plates and the epiphyses, so as completely to unite the adjacent bodies. The ossific union of the first and second bodies does not take place till the 2oth year or later Previous to this, the lateral masses have coalesced nearly in the same order as the bodies. The deficiency of the spine and dorsal part of the laminaB usually existing in the fifth sacral vertebra, and not unfrequently extending to the fom'th, but more rarely to the third, may be attributed in part to the non-extension of ossification in that dhection : but such varieties of form, like many others to which the sacral vertebr£e are subject, are probably intimately connected with the nature and development of the formative matrix of the bones. The more completely open state of the sacral canal posteriorly found in cases of spina-bifida is un- doubtedly connected with early morbid changes interfering with the natui-al process of development. Coccyg-eal Vertebrae.—Each of the coccygeal vertebrse is ossified from a distinct piece of cartilage, and usually from a single centre, but in the upper sometimes from two centres. Ossification commences in the first generally about the time of bu-th ; in the second, from the oth to the 10th year; in the third, some time before, and in the fouii}h, some time after puberty. The ossific union of the three lower coccygeal vertebra occurs before middle life ; their union with the first, and the union of this with the sacrum, belong to the later periods of life. GENERAL AND SERIAL HOMOLOGY OF THE VERTEBRiE. The study of the various forms presented by the parts of the vertebral column, and of its relation to the rest of the skeleton in man and animals, as also of its development in the foetus, has led to the formation of the general views of homology referred to in the introduction. These views originated, in somewhat different forms, mainly with Oken, Carus, Geoffrey St. Hilahe, and Owen ; and, with various modifications and extensions by more recent writers, as Goodsir, Huxley, Gegenbaur, St. George Mivart, and Flower, are now admitted by almost all anatomists, in some shape or other, as the basis of a morphological Fig. 21.—Views op the Differejtt Vertebrj3 from aeoye to illustrate their Homologies. (A. T.) 1, atlas; 2, axis; 3, sixth cervical; 4, seventh cervical with supernumerary ribs; 5, middle dorsal; 6, upper dorsal, with costal arch and sternum attached; 7, middle lumbar; 8, first lumbar with supernumerary ribs ; 9., lower lumbar ; 10, upper sacral ; 11, upper sacral vertebra, presenting the lumbar form on the right side, as in the oblique pelvis ; 12, fourth sacral vertebra in a j'oung subject; 13, foxir coccygeal vertebrae. In the several figures the parts are indicated by letters as follows, viz., in 1, s, spine ; n, neural arch ; c', the space occupied by the processus dentatus, or displaced body ; h, anterior or precentral arch ; ctr, superior articular process : in 2, c", processus dentatus ; ar, superior articular process ; s' inferior articular process : in 3, c, centrum or body ; 2, 2', superior and infeiior articular processes : in 4, t,t, transverse processes ; v, v, ver- tebrarterial foramina ; co, moveable right supernumerary or cervical rib ; x, with a dotted line marks the place where an anchylosed rib on the left side may be considered to be superadded to the transverse process (diapophysis and parapophysis) of the vertebra : in 5, t, transverse process with costo-transverse facet ; cc, costo-central facet : in 6, v, ver- tebrarterial interval ; ct, costo-transverse, and cc, costo-central articulations ; co, first rib : in 7, m, mammillary, and a, accessory tubercles ; t, transverse process : in 8, co, co', left and right supernumerary ribs : in 10, Z, the latei'al mass : in 11, Z', place of the lateral mass, remaining undeveloped in this instance : in 12, tl, the transverse process and lateral mass which unite with the corresponding parts above ; /, /', anterior and posterior sacral foramina thus formed : in 13, c, the centrum or body, which alone reiaains in the last coccygeal vertebra.