IXTEODUCTION. 6 long-itudinal axis of the traiik, as previously stated, the similarity between the cephalic and caudal parts is of a different and only a remote kind ; that, viz., which is involved in the repetition in series of vertebral elements, which, though funda- mentally similar, yet differ greatly in the form and development of their parts. Descriptive Terms.—In the description of parts so numerous, so various in form, and so comx>lex in their connections as those composing the human body, there is difficulty in finding terms which shall indicate with suificient precision their actual position and their relation to the rest of the organism. This diffi- culty is farther increased by the exceptional erect attitude in which the trunk of the human body is placed as com.pared with the horizontal position in animals. Hence, a number of terms have long been in use in human anatomy which are understood in a technical or restricted sense. The vwstal 'i'>^<^nc, for example, already referred to, is that by which the body might be divided into right and left lateral halves, and the m iddle or median Unc is that in which the mesial plane meets the surface of the body. The words infernal and external are used to denote relative nearness to and distance from the mesial plane towards either side, and might therefore be replaced by mesial and lateral. The words anterior and posterior, superior and inferior, and several others indicating position, are employed in human anatomy strictly with reference to the erect posture of the body. But no^^^ that the more extended study of comparative aiiatomy and embryonic development is largely applied to the elucidation of the human struc- ture, it is very desirable that descriptive terms should be sought wliich may without ambiguity indicate position and relation in the organism at once in man and animals. Such terms as dorsal and ventral, neural and riseeral, ceplialic and caudal^ central ^-^^ peri plural. proximal and distal, axial and appendicnlar, preaxial and postaxial, are of this kind, and ought, whenever tliis may be done consistently wdth sufficient clearness of description, to take the place of those which are only applicable to the peculiar attitude of the human body, so as to bring the language of human and comparative anatomy as much as possible into confor- mity. In many instances, also, precision may be obtained by reference to certain fixed relations of parts, such as the rertehral and sternal aspects, the radial or ulnar, and the tihial or Jihular borders, the flexor or extensor surfaces of the limbs, and similarly in other parts of the body. ^ DIVISIONS OF DESCRIPTIVE ANATOMY, The systems and organs of the body to be described in this work may conveniently be brought under the following divisions, viz. :— 1. Osteology, the Bones. 2. Arthrology, the Joints. 3. Myology, the Yoluntary Muscles, with the Fasciae and Apo- neuroses. 4. Angeiology, the Distribution of the Blood-vessels and Lym- phatics. 5. Neurology, the Distribution of the Nerves. 6. Splanchnology, the Viscera, including— a. The Brain and Spinal Cord. J). The Organs of the Senses. c. The Heart. d. The Lungs and Organs of Eespiration. e. The Organs of Digestion with the Accessory Glands. /. The Urinary Organs. g. The Organs of Reproduction. The integuments will be described in the part on General Anatomy.