THE CERVICAL NERVES. 578 h. The mastoid hranch is miited to the posterior auricular branch of the facial nerve, and ascends over the mastoid process to the integument behind the ear. c. The facial branches of the great auricular nerve, which extend to the integuments of the face, are distributed over the parotid gland. Some slender filaments penetrate deeply through the substance of the gland, and communicate with the facial nerve. Small occipital nerve.—The smaller occipital nerve varies in size, and is sometimes double. It springs from the second cervical nerve, and is directed almost vertically to the head along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle. Having perforated the deep fascia near the cranium, the small occipital nerve is continued upwards between the ear and the great occipital nerve, and ends in cutaneous filaments which extend upwards in the scalp; it communicates with branches from the larger occipital nerve, as well as with the posterior auricular branch of the facial. It appears to supply sometimes the occipito- frontalis muscle. The auricular Ijranch is distributed to the upper part of the ear on the posterior aspect, and to the elevator muscle of the auricle. This auricular branch is an offset from the great occipital nerve when the smaU occipital is of less size than usual. 11. Superficial DESCENDixa Branches. Supraclavicnlar nerves.—The descending series of the superficial nerves are thus named. There are two of these nerves, or, in some cases, a greater number. They arise from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and descend in the interval between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius muscles. As they approach the clavicle, the nerves are aug- mented to three or more in number, and are recognised as internal, middle, and posterior. a. The internal (suprasternal) branch, which is much smaller than the rest^ ramifies over the inner half of the clavicle, and terminates near the sternum. 1). The middle hranch (supraclavicular), lying opposite the interval between the pectoral and deltoid muscles, distributes some twigs over the fore part of the deltoid, and others over the pectoral muscle. The latter join the small cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves. c. The external ot: j^osterior hranch (supra-acromial) is directed outwards over the acromion, and the clavicular attachment of the trapezius muscle, and ends in the integument of the outer and back part of the shoulder. III. Deep Branches : Inner Series. Connecting branches.—The cervical plexus is connected near the base of the skull with the trunks of the pneumo-gastric, hypoglossal,,, and sympathetic nerves, by means of filaments intervening between those nerves and the loop formed by the first two cervical nerves in front of the atlas (p. 560). Muscular branches.—Brandies to the anterior recti mtisdes proceed from the cervical nerves close to the vertebraa, including the loop between the first two of these nerves. Ttvo iranckes to the ansa hypoglossi, one from the second, the other from tlie third cervical nerve, descend over or under the internal jugular vein, to form a loop of communication with the ramus de- scendens noni, and aid in the supply of the muscles below the hyoid bone (p. 567). Phrenic nerve.—The diaphragmatic or phrenic nerve passes down through the lower part of the neck and the thorax to its destination.