295 DEE? LATEEAL CEEYICAL MaSCLES. hyoid bone, but the laiynx is raised by the action of the thji-o-hyoid muscles. During deglutition the action of the thyro-hyoid muscles, by approximating the thyi-oid cartilage and hyoid bone, facilitates the descent of the epiglottis on the superior apertui-e of the larynx. DEEP LATEBAIi AND PBEVERTEBEAL MUSCLES OF THE NECK The SCALENI muscles form a group of strong muscular columns, which are usually three in number, but sometimes only two. All of them are subdivided superiorly into musculo-tendinous slips, corre- sponding in number with their vertebral attachments. The anterior scalenus muscle is attached superiorly to the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical yertebrse, and inferiorly by a thick flattened tendon to the scalene tubercle, a rough part of the inner border and upper surface of the first rib in front of the subclavian groove. JRelatlons.—This muscle is placed deeply : in its lower part it is crossed by the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle, and in its whole length it is tra- versed by the phrenic nerve passing obliquely from above doT^-nwards and inwards. The subclavian vein and artery pass respectively in front and behind its inferior attachment. The nerves of the brachial plexus emerge from behind its outer border above the subclavian artery. The rectus capitis anticus major arises on its inner side, the ascending cervical branch of the inferior thyroid artery lies in the groove between that muscle and the scalenus, and in front is the internal jugular vein. Fig. 215.—The Deep Lateral AND Prevertebral Mus- cles OP the Neck from before. (A. T.) A a, cut surface of the basilar process; 6, transverse process of the atlas ; c, trans- verse process of the seventh cervical vertebra ; d, body of the first, d!, of the fourth dor- sal vertebra ; e, first, and e', second rib; 1, rectus capitis anticus major muscle ; 2, rec- tus capitis anticus minor ; 3, middle part, 3', upper part, and Z", lower part of the longus colli; 4, rectus lateralis ; 4', first pair, and 4", second pair of interfcransversales ; 5, scalenus anticus of the right side ; 5', the tendon of attachment to the first rib on the left side ; 6, scalenus medius ; 6', lower por- tion of the corresponding mus- cle of the left side ; 7, scalenus posticus, its superior attach- ments shown upon the left side ; 8, upper pai-t of the levator scapuke drawn out from its vertebral attachments ; 9, splenius colli, shown in the same manner. Fig. 215. The scalenus medius is attached superiorly to the posterior tubercles