4 THE PLANTAU NERVES. 619 these digital nerves ; and, opposite the ungual phalanx, each sends a dorsal branch to the pulp beneath the nail, and then runs on to the ball of the toe, where it is distributed like the nerves of the fingers. External Plantar Herve.—The external plantar nerve completes the supply of digital nerves to the toes, furnishing branches to the little toe and half the fourth : it also gives a deep branch of con- siderable size, which is distributed to several of the short muscles in the sole of the foot. There is thus a great resemblance between the distribution of this nerve in the foot and that of the ulnar nerve in the hand. The external plantar nerve runs obliquely forwards towards the outer side of the foot, along with the external plantar artery, between the flexor brevis digitorum and the flexor accessorius, as far as the interval between the former muscle and the abductor of the little toe. Here it divides into a superficial and a deep branch, having previously furnished oflPsets to the flexor accessorius and the adductor tnimmi cligUL a. The svperficlal iiovtion separates into two digital branches, which have the same general arrangement as the digital branches of the internal plantar nerve. They are distributed thus. Digital Iraiichea.—One of the digital branches continues undivided, and runs along the outer side of the little toe : it is smaller than the other, and pierces the plantar fascia further back. The slwvt flexor mvscle of the little toe, and occa- sionally one or two 'interosseous muscles of the fourth metatarsal space receive branches from this nerve. The larger digital branch communicates with an offset from the internal plantar nerve, and bifurcates near the cleft between the fourth and fifth toes to supply one side of each. h. The deej) or muscular branch of the external i-)lantar nerve dips into the sole of the foot with the external plantar artery, under cover of the tendons of the flexor muscles and the adductor poUicis, and terminates in numerous branches for the following muscles :—all the interossei (dorsal and plantar) except occa- sionally one or both of those in the fourth space, the two outer lumbricales, the adductor poUicis, and the transversalis pedis. " SuMMAHY OF THE Inteenal Popltteal I^eeve.—This nerve sup- plies all the muscles of the back of the leg and sole of the foot, and the integument of the plantar aspect of the toes, the sole of the foot, and in part that of the leg. External Popliteal Herve=—This nerve descends obliquely along the outer side of the popliteal space, lying close to the biceps muscle. Continuing downwards over the outer part of the gastrocnemius muscle (between it and the biceps) below the head of the fibula, the nerve turns round that bone, passing between it and the peroneus loDgus muscle, and then divides into the anterior tilial and the mmcuJo-cuianeous nerves. I^ATEEAL beaIvCHEs.—Somc articular and cutaneous branches are derived from the external popliteal nerve before its final division. Articular nerves.—The articular branches are conducted to the outer side of the capsular ligament of the knee-joint by the upper and lower articular arteries of that side. They sometimes arise together, and the upper one occasionally springs from the gi'eat sciatic nerve before the bifurcation. From the place of division of the external popliteal nerve, a recurrent articular nerve ascends through the tibialis anticus muscle with the recurrent artery to reach the fore part of the knee-joint.