527 THE OLFACTORY KERVE. Bistribution.—The olfactory nerve is exclusively distributed to the nasal fossse. From the under surface of the olfactory bulb about twenty branches proceed throuo-h the holes in the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, each invested by tubular prolongations of the membranes of the brain. These tubes of membrane vary in the extent to which they are con- tinued on the branches : the offsets of the dura mater sheathe the filaments, and join the periosteum lining the nose ; those of the pia mater and arachnoid become blended with the neurilemma of the nerves. Fig. 332. Fig. 332. Distribution- of the Olfactory Nerves on the Septum of the Nose (from Sappey after lilrschfeld and Leveille). § The septum is exposed and tlie anterior palatine canal opened on the right side. I, placed above, points to the olfactory bulb, and the remaining Roman numbers to the roots of the several cranial nerves ; 1, the small olfactory nerves as they pass throngli the cribriform plate ; 2, internal or septal twig of the nasal brancli of the ophthalmic nerve : 3, naso-palatine nerves. (See fig. 339 for a view of the distribution of the olfactory nerves on the outer wall of the nasal fossa.) The branches are arranged in three sets. Those of the inner set, lodged for some distance m grooves on the surface of the bone, ramify in the pituitary membrane of the septum ; the outer set extend to the upper two spongy bones and the smooth surface of the ethmoid bone in front of these ; and the middle set, which are very short, are confined to the roof of the nose. The distribution of the olfactory nerve is con- fined to the upper part of the nasal fossa ; none of the branches reach the lower spongy bone.—(See Anatomy of the Nose.) OPTIC NERVE. The second pair or optic nerves of the two sides meet each other at the optic commissure (chiasma), where they partially decussate. From this point they may be traced backwards round the crura cerebri, under the name of the optic tracts. Surface attachment.—Each optic tract arises from the posterior part of the optic thalamus and the corpora geniculata. As it leaves the under part of the thalamus, it makes a sudden bend forwards and then runs obliquely across the under surface of the cerebral peduncle,