THE FEMUE. 109 2S- 10- part. It presents two sharp margins and a flat interval. The external divi- Fig. 97. Fig. 97.—Femur of a j\[ale from behikd (A. T.) i 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 13, the same as in the preceding hgurc ; 2', pit on the head for the round ligament of the hip-joint; 3', the hack of the neck, showing a slight groove of the obturator exteriius muscle as it passes over the capsular ligament ajul neck ; between 4 and 5, the pos- terior intertrochanteric ridge ; 14, rough im- pression of the attachment of the gluteus maximus muscle in the upper and outer continua- tion of the linea aspera ; 15, two lines runnicg up towards the lesser trochanter from the linea aspera, marking the attachments of the ad- ductor brevis and pectineus muscles ; 16, flat elevated surface of the linea aspera ; 17, flat triangular popliteal surface between the lower divisions of the linea aspera ; 18, intercondylar notch ; 19, foramen for the nutritive or medul- lary vessels. sion of its superior bifurcation passes up to the great trochanter, and in its course is strongly marked where the gluteus maximus is attached ; the in- ternal division terminates in front of the small trochanter. The inferior divisions terminate at the tuberosi- ties of the condyles, and enclose be- tween them a flat triangular surface of bone, which is free from imiscular attachments, and forms the floor of the upper part of the popliteal space. Towards the superior part of the linea aspera is the foramen for the medullary vessels, directed upwards into the bone. The inferior extrernitii presents two rounded eminences, the condijles, united anteriorly, but separated posteriorly by a deep intercondylar fossa or notch. Their greatest prominence is directed back- wards, and their curve, as it increases towards that part, may be compared to that of a partially uncoiled piece of watch-spring. The external condyle is the broader and more prominent in front; the internal is the longer and aCi;!)iill!'^lll\^\\Vvm more ]_)rominent inferiorly. One large articular surface, coated continuously with cartilage, extends over both con- dyles, but, opposite the front of the intercondylar fossa, it is divided by -..^ two slight linear depressions into three ^ parts, an elevated surface on each side of the fossa for articulation with the tibia ; and a grooved anterior surface J5- m m 13