MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. 222 by a tendon into the radial border of the first phalanx of the thumb at its base. The opponexis pollicis muscle, placed behind the abductor, arises from the annular ligament and from the os trapezium and its ridge, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the thumb at the radial border. The flexor "brevis pollicis muscle arises by two heads, a superficial and a deep. The superficial head is attached to the outer two-thirds of the annular ligament and to the trapezium : the deep head is attached to the OS trapezoides and os magnum, to the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, and to the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis, and to the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones. From the superficial and deep heads of origin two strong masses of fibres proceed, which, becoming tendinous, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb ; the outer head is also joined by a considerable fasciculus from the deeper origin ; the inner head is inserted conjointly with the adductor pollicis. In each of the tendons of insertion a sesamoid bone is developed, which plays over the grooved surface of the first meta- carpal bone. The tendon of the long flexor lies between the heads of origin, and grooves the surface of the muscle as it passes between the tendons of insertion. The adductor pollicis muscle arises from the middle two-thirds of the palmar surface of the third metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb along with the inner tendon of the short flexor. Muscles of the little fixge-r.—The fleshy mass at the inner border of the hand {hypotJienar eminence) consists of three muscles passing to the little finger. The abductor minimi digiti muscle arises by tendinous fibres from the pisiform bone and the inserted tendon of tlie flexor cai'pi uhiaris, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger on the ulnar border. The flexor "brevis minimi digiti, sepai'ated at its origin from the ab- ductor muscle by a small interval through which pass the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve and the communicating branch of the ulnar artery, arises from the front of the annular ligament, and from a tip of the hooked process of the unciform bone, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, in connection with tlie preceding muscle. This muscle is sometimes absent, or becomes incorporated with the abductor. The opponeiis minimi digiti muscle arises from the annular ligament and the unciform process, and is inserted into the ulnar border of the filth metacarpal bone in all its length. The INTEROSSEOUS MUSCLES occupy the intervals between the meta- carpal bones. They are seven in number, all of them more or less visible from the palmar aspect, and they are divided into two sets, viz., those which are best seen on the dorsal aspect of the metacarpus, and those which are seen only in the palm. Their disposition is most easily understood by reference to their action. The dorsal iri.terossei muscles withdraw the fingers from the middle line of the hand ; they are four in number, each occupying one of the spaces between the rnetacarpal bones, and are numbered from with- out inwards. Each muscle arises from both the metacarpal bones