212 MUSCLES OF THE L'PPER LIMB. the fingers, rj-e formed opposite the first and second phalanges by strong tendinous bands of transverse fibres (ligamenta vaginalia) attached to the rough margins of the palmar surfaces of the phalanges. Opposite the joints, flexion is secured by the substitution for those bands of a thin membrane, strengthened by oblique decussating fibres. The tendi nous sheath has a synovial lining, which is simple in front, but poste- Fig, 174.—Bones op Two Fingers, with the insertions op the Tendons. ^ In A, the tendons of the flexor muscles are bound to the finger by the fibrous sheaths. In B, the bands have been removed, as well as the synovial capsules and vincula acces- soria ; 1, metacarpal bone ; 2, tendon of the flexor sublimis ; 3, tendon of the flexor profundus ; *, perforation of the sublimis by the profundus tendon ; 4, tendon of the extensor digitorum communis; 5, one of the lumbricales muscles ; 6, one of the inters osseous muscles. riorly dips between the tendons. A few slender and loose bands (vincula accessoria tendinum) extend from the floor of the sheath to the deep surface of both tendons. Behind each tendon, near its inser- tion, is a short membranous structure (ligamentum breve) which fixes the tendon to the front of the phalanx situated above that into which it is inserted. Belations.—Superiorly, the flexor sublimis is concealed by tlie other muscles of the superficial set, and is crossed near its radial origin by the radial artery; it rests on the flexor poUicis longus and flexor profundus, separated from the latter by the median nerve and the ulnar artery. In the palm of the hand, its tendons are covered by the palmar fascia, the superficial palmar arterial arch, and the branches of the median nerve ; and they lie in front of the accompanying- tendons of the flexor profundus. Varieties.—The radial origin of the flexor sublimis is sometimes wanting. The body of the muscle is occasionally subdivided, so that each of the four tendons has a distinct muscular belly : this happens most frequently with the radial and the little finger part. The tendon to the little finger has been observed to be absent. In connection with this muscle may be mentioned an additional small muscle, the Taclio-cari)ali8, v.^hich has been seen by many anatomists, rising from the outer border of the radius usually above the pronator quadratus, and very variably inserted below, into the trapezium magnum, or some other part of the cai-pus ; and in other cases into one or other of the metacarpal bones. A muscular slip is frequently given from this muscle to the flexor profundus, or to the flexor longus poUicis. The DEEP-SEATED MUSCLES, on the anterior surface of the forearm, are the flexor profundus, flexor pollicis longus, and pronator quadi'atus.