85 THE HUMERUS. angle directed downwards and backwards. The scapular end is broad and flat, and articulates by a small oval surface with the acromion. Texture.—The interior of the clavicle contains coarse cancellated tissue in its whole extent. Towards the middle of the shaft the spaces widen out, and unite so as to form an irregular medullary cavity. THE HUMEEUS. The humerus or arm-bone extends from the scapula to the bones of the forearm, with both of which it is articulated. It hangs nearly vertically from the shoulder, with an inclina- tion inwards towards the lower end. It is Fig- "J"!, divisible into a superior extremity, including the head, neck, and greater and smaller tuber- osities ; the shaft ; and the inferior extremity, including the external and internal condylar eminences, and the inferior articular surface. In general form it is subcylindrical and slightly twisted. Fig, 71.—Right Humeeus from before. (A. T.) ^ 1, the articular head ; 2, lesser tuberosity ; 3, greater tuberosity ; 4, neck ; 5, bicipital groove ; 6, inner bicipital lirlge, and mark of the attachment of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles ; 7, outer bicipital ridge, and rough surface of insertion of the pectoralis major, running down into 7', the triangular mark of the insertion of the deltoid ; 8, spiral groove ; 9, inner ridge of the humerus; 10, trochlear articular surface ; 11, capitellum, or radial condyle ; 12, epitrochlear or internal condylar eminence ; 13, capitellar or external condylar eminence ; 11, coronoid depression or fossa. The superior extremity is the thickest part of the bone. The head is a large hemispherical articular elevation, directed inwards, upwards, and somewhat backwards. The neck as de- scribed by anatomists, is the ring of bone which supports the head ; inferiorly, it passes into the shaft ; superiorly, it is a mere groove be- tween the head and the great tuberosity. The great tulerosity is a thick projection, continued upwards from the external part of the shaft, and reaching nearly to the level of the upper margin of the head; it is surmounted by three flat surfaces, the uppermost of which gives attachment to the supraspi'natus muscle, the lowest to tlie teres minor, and the inter- mediate one to the infraspinatus muscle. Separated from the great tuberosity by the commencement of the bicipital groove, the small tuberosity^ rounded and prominent, looks directly forwards and gives attachment to the subscapularis muscle. . The shaft or Imly^ thick and cylindrical superiorly, becomes expanded transversely, and somewhat three-sided inferiorly. It is divided into