SUPIXATOE EADII LOXGUS. 215 qnadratus, Onlr one half of the flexor profmidns digitoiiim is supplied with nerves from the" raedian. the other half, together ^ith the -whole of the flexor carpi ulnaiis receiyes twigs from the ulnar nerve. SUPINATOR AXD EXTEXSOE ilUSCLES. The muscles of this gronp are, like those of the front of the for divided into a superficial and a deep layer. The SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES are sis in num- ber, yiz., the supinator longus, the exten- sores carpi radiales longior and brevior, the extensor communis digit orum, extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. The supinator radii longus muscle arises from the upper two-thirds of the ex- ternal ridge of the humerus, and the ex- ternal inter-muscular septum. Its fibres form a thin fleshy mass which descends upon the anterior and outer border of the forearm, about the middle of which they end in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the external border of the radius, near the base of the styloid process. earm, 16-^ Fig. 176.—Superficial ^^-Iuscles of the Foeeae:ii AKD Hand, seen feo^i behind. (A. T.) I d, olecranon; c, external condylar eminence; /, lower end of the ulnar ; 8, main tendon of the triceps extensor cubiti; 8", its inner head ; 9, anconeus; 10, part of brachialis anticiis ; 11, supinator longus ; 12, extensor carpi radialis longior; 13, brevior; 14, extensor communis digitorum ; 15, extensor carpi ulnaris ; 15', its inserxion into the fifth metacarpal bone ; +, between 14 and 15, extensor minimi digiti ; 16, origin of the flexor carpi ulnaris by an aponeurosis from the back of the idna ; 17, extensor ossis metacarpi poliicis : 17', its insertion into the first metacarpal bone ; 18, extensor primi internodii poliicis ; 18', its insertion into the first phalanx ; + and t, posterior annular hgament of the carpus or retinaculum of the extensor tendons ; at t, the ten- dons 'of the long and short radial extensors ; at +, the tendon of the extensor minimi digiti; 19, tendon of the extensor secundi internodii ; '20, is placed on the proximal end of the second metacarpal bone, close to the insertion of the radial extensors of the carpus : in the hand, the dorsal interossei muscles are sho^su, and on the middle finger the insertion of the exten- sor tendoDs. Itelat'wnfi.—This muscle is covered only by skin and fascia, except at its insertion, ■u'iiere two of the extensor tendons of the thumb lie superficial to it. Above, the brachialis anticus is in contact with its inner surface and the radial extensors of the carpus are beneath it. It forms the outer boundary of the tiiangular space at the bend of the elbow, and in the forearm it rests upon the supinator brevis, flexor sublimit digitorum, pronator teres, radial artery, musculo-spiral and radial nen-es. Varieties.—These are neither great nor numerous in this muscle. One of the