EXTERIOR OF THE SKULL. THE ORBITS. 59 The foramina in this region, on each side, are the snpra-orbital fora- men or notch in the superior margin of the orbit, the infra-orbital foramen below the inferior margin of the orbit, the mental foramen of the lower jaw, and the small irregular foramina of the malar bone. The orbits are pyramidal fossse, irregularly quadrilateral, with their bases directed forwards and slightly outwards, their inner walls being nearly parallel, and their outer walls diverging so as to be nearly at right angles to each other. The roof of each orbit is formed by the Fig. 51. Fig. 51.—Section op Male Skull of Middle Age, in two planes, one passing VERTICALLY THROUGH THE LeFT OrBIT, THE OTHER OBLIQUELY FROM BEHIND THE Orbit, backwards and outwards, through the Tympanum and Mastoid Pro- cess. (A. T.) 4 1, section of the frontal bone in the roof of the orbit ; 2, left nasal bone ; 3, nasal process of the superior maxillary bone ; 4, left lachrymal bone, and in front the lachrymal groove ; 5, placed on the os planum of the ethmoid bone, below the anterior eth- moidal foramen ; 6, is i^laced below the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone, between the optic foramen and the posterior ethmoidal foramen, and in front of the foramen lacerum orbitale ; 7, orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone inside the infra-orbital groove ; 8, on the orbital plate of the palate bone, in front of and above the spheno-palatine foramen and spheno-maxillary fossa ; 9, the upper extremity of the posterior palatine canal ; 10, the cranial opening of the foramen rotundum—its anterior opening is seen in the spheno-maxillary fossa ; 11, section of the great wdng of the sphenoid bone outside the foramen ovale, and in the fossa near it the anterior opening of the Vidian canal ; 12, placed between the spinous and oval foramina ; 13, on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, near the apex. In front of the figure is seen the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery, and below the figure and externally the hiatus Fallopii ; 14, the pituitary fossa, with the anterior and posterior clinoid pro- cesses ; 15, section of the petrous bone above the labyrinth ; two of the semicircular canals are opened ; immediately below is the tympanum. The inner wall is seen wdth the promontory, fenestra ovalis and pyramid in shadow ; forwards nesir x , the tympanic opening of the Eustachian canal, and backwards, below 16, the opening into the mastoid cells ; 17, left styloid process—that of the right side is seen in perspective below the skull, close by the occipital condyle ; 18, tuberosity of the superior maxilla ; 19, canine fossa ; 20, nasal notch and anterior nasal spine ; 21, inner wall of the antrum seen by the removal of its outer wall ; above the figure is the maxillary process of the inferior turbinated bone, and over that an irregular fissure, viz., the opening of the antrum into the middle meatus of the nose, and above that the uncinate process of the ethmoid bone.