EEECT ATTITUDE OF THE SKELETOiX. 130 over the ankle-joint is more immediately necessary. But at the knee and hip- joint, it is mainly by the mechanism of the ligaments and other parts of the joints, and less directly by muscular action, that the erect attitude is maintained, as will be more fully shown in the description of the different articulations. There are, besides, many peculiarities in the construction of the body, and especially of the skeleton, which are associated with the assumption of the erect posture, and although many of them have been noticed in the description of the several sets of bones, it may still be useful to recapitulate them briefly in this place. It may first be remarked that the full development of these peculiarities belongs to the adult condition. In the infant, while still unable to walk, the large proportional size of the head, amounting to nearly a fifth of the whole body, the comparative straightness of the vertebral column, or absence of the curves which characterise the spine of the adult, the shortness of the lower limbs, and incompleteness of their structures, all contribute to render the assumption of the erect attitude by the child, for a time, difficult and insecure. Thus the middle distance between the vertex of the head and the foot in a child is situated somewhat above the umbilicus, Vv^hile in the adult it is generally at the upper border of the pubis, or even lower in some pai-t of the symphysis. In the child also, from the large dimensions of the head and upper part of the body, the centre of gravity is carried to a considerably higher point than in the adult. The skull of man differs from that of animals in being nearly balanced on the vertebral column, the condyles of the occipital bone being brought forward to nea,r the middle of the base, by the comparative shortness of that part of the skull which lies in front of the foramen magnum, and the projection backwards of that which lies behind it. In animals the skull hangs forwards, as it were, from the extremity of the column, and is sustained by the elastic ligamentum nuchse, represented in man by a comparatively feeble structure which passes between the external occipital protuberance, and the spinous processes of the cervical vertebr£e. The spinal column, by its pyramidal form, is fitted to sustain the weight which bears do-wn upon its lower part, and by means of its different curvatures j}ossesses elasticity and strength combined, and allows considerable range of motion to the trunk, without removal of the "centre of gravity from within its base. The strong and expanded sacrum is the immediate means of transferrmg the weight of the trunk to the ossa innominata and lower limbs. The pelvis is of peculiar breadth in man, presenting an upper and lower arch which meet at the hip-joints, and is so inclined that a vertical line descending from the centre of gravity of the body is in a plane slightly behind the centres of motion of the hip-joints. The breadth of the pelvis enables the balance to be more easily maintamed in lateral movements of the l3ody by compensating inclinations of different parts to opposite sides of the basis of support, and the long neck of the femur gives an advantageous insertion to the muscles by which the balance of the body is principally preserved. The os inn.ominatum is mainly distinguished from the same bone in animals by the breadth of its iliac portion, which gives support to the abdominal viscera, and attachment to the greatly developed iliac and gluteal muscles. The lower limbs are remarkable for their length and strength. The femur is greatly elongated, its length considerably exceeding that of the tibia,—a condi- tion which is requisite not only to give a sufficient extent of stride, but also to enable the body to be balanced in different degrees and varieties of stooping. The foot of man alone among animals has an arched instep, and it likewise presents a great breadth of sole. The great toe is distinguished by its full development, and especially from that of the quadrumana, by its want of opposability, being constructed, not for grasping, but for supporting the weight of the body, and giving spring to the step. While stability and strength are thus provided in the lower limbs, mobility and lightness are secured in the upper. This is apparent on comparison of the shoulder, elbow, and wrist, with the hip, knee, and ankle. In the hand, also, the movable phalanges are as long as the carpal and metacarpal bones taken together, while in the foot they are not a thiixl of the length of the-tarsal and m-etatarsal bones.