SUPERIOE. MAXILLARY BOXE. 47 hollowed out beneath the orbital plate m the body of the bone. The superior maxillary bone articulates with its fellow, with the nasal, frontal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, malar, vomer, and inferior turbi- nated bones, and with the nasal cartilages. The alveolar border or process, thick and arched, is hollowed out into sockets or alveoli, corresponding in number, form, and depth to the roots of the teeth, which are fixed in them. The palate plate, along with that of the opposite side, forms about three-fourths of the hard palate. Its superior surface is smooth and concave from side to side ; its inferior surface is vaulted and rough, and is marked laterally with grooves for nerves and vessels, which reach the palate through the posterior palatine canal. Its posterior extremity falls short of that of the alveolar arch and body of the bone, and articulates with the horizontal process of the palate bone, which completes the hard palate. The mesial border rises into a serrated vertical ridge, which, wdth its fellow, constitutes in front the nasal Fig. 39,—Superior Maxillary Bone op the Right Side. (A. T.) k A, from the outside ; B, from tlie inside. 1 to 2, alveolar process or arcli—1 at the middle incisor tooth, 2 marks the tuherositj^, and above it, in A, the posterior dental foramina ; 3, the nasal or ascending process ; 4, malar tuberosity or process ; 5, orbital plate or process ; 6, placed in front of the nasal notch marks the nasal crest terminating in the nrisal spine ; 7, the incisor or m^'rtiform fossa ; 8, is in front of the canine fossa ; 9, the infra-orbital foramen, and below 5, the infra-orbital groove and canal ; 10, groove of the nasal or lachrymal duct; 11, antrum maxillare, or maxillary sinus ; 12, marks the oblique ridge for the attachment of the inferior turbinated bone ; 13, is placed above the palate plate ; from 13 to 6, the vomeric and nasal crest ; from 13 to 14, the anterior palatine foramen ; 15, placed on the surface of pa'ticulation of the body with the palate bone, points to the groove of the palato-maxillary canal. These figures also exhibit a full set of the upper teeth of one side as they occur in middle life. crest—a grooved elevation which sup- ports the extremity of the vomer and the septal cartilage, and is prolonged forwards into the nasal spine. This ridge is interrupted at its anterior part by a canal, the incisor foramen, which is completed on its mesial side by a slender lamina passing from the anterior to the posterior border. Each incisor foramen widens out below into a larger hollow, which when placed in appo- sition wnth that of the opposite side, completes a mesial aperture, the anterior jjalatim foramen. Viewed from below, this aperture may be seen to be divided into four smaller foramina, two of which, placed laterally, are the incisor foramina, called also foramina of Stenson, while the other tv^^o, placed in the middle line, one before, the other behind. Fig. 39.