MUSCLES OF THE LO\YER LIMB. 238 distinguished one fvom the other only by the arrangement of their fibres, cover the whole of the anterior and lateral surfaces of the thigh- bone, from which they arise. 189. Fig. 189.—Deep Muscles of the Fkont of THE Thigh, (A. T.) ^ a, anterior superior, and h, anterior inferior spinous process of tlie ilium ; c, outer and upper part of the great trochanter ; d, sym- physis pubis ; e, pateHa ; /, inner side of the knee-joint and internal h\teral ligament ; g, head of the fibula ; 1, the gluteus medius ; 2, the gluteus minimus ; 3, tendon of the rectus, di^ddirg above into its two portions ; 4, points . to the cut tendon of insertion of the ilio- psoas muscle ; 5, part of the obturator ex- ternus and quadratas femoris ; 6, pectlneus; 7, part of the adductor brevis ; 8, adductor magnus ; 9, vastus internus ; 9', its continu- ation down on the outer side ;10, crureus ; 11, vastus externus ; 12, tendon of the rectus; ] 3, lower part of the slip of the fascia lata by which the tensor vaginte femoris is inserted into the tibia and fibula. a. The rectus femoris muscle ex- tended in a straight Inie from the pelvis to the patella, arises by two tendons, one of which is attached to the anterior inferior spinous pro- cess of the ilium, and the other united to the first within an inch of that point, takes origin from the groove on the dorsum ilii above the brim of the acetabulum. Fi'om the prolonga- tion of the tendon so formed the mus- cular fibres arise pennately, and, turn- ing outwards and backwards as they descend, are inserted in a similar manner into the tendon below, the superior tendon being prolonged on the anterior, the inferior tendon on the posterior surface of the mxuscle. The inferior tendon forms a broad band inserted into the upper surface of the patella. Bclations.—Superiorly this muscle is covered by the tensor vaginse femoris, iliacus, and sartorius muscles: further down it is covered only by fascia. The acetabu- lar tendon lies beneath the gluteus mini- mus. The muscle rests upon the capsular ligament of the hip-joint, the insertion of the ilio-psoas, the crureus, and parts of the vasti muscles. Behind it also pass the external circumflex artery and a part of the anterior crural nerve. l. The vastus externus arises by an extensive aponeurosis attached