162 ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS. capsular ligament relaxed; 11, the terior rough portion of the lateral surface of the sacrum and that part of the ilium which projects beyond the dorsum of the sacrum. A superficial band extending downwards from the posterior superior iliac spine to the third or fourth piece of the sacrum, in a direction different from the other fibres, is distinguished as the oblique sacro-iliac ligament The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of thin irregular fibres passing between the sacrum and os innominatum on their pelvic surfaces. The sacro-sciatic ligaments.—The posterior, or great sacro- sciatic ligament, broad and triangular, assists in closing the lower a})er- ture of the pelvis. Its base is attached to the postero-inferior iliac spine and to the side of the sacrum and coccyx; whilst its apex is fixed along the inner surface of the ischial tuberosity, where it expands somewhat, and sends upwards and forwards along the margin of the ischial ramus a falciform process, the border of which is continuous with, and forms the inferior attachment of, the obturator fascia. The anterior, or small sacro-sciatic ligament, much shorter and thinner than the preceding one, in front of which it Hes, is also triangular in form, and is attached by its base to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, where its fibres are blended with those of the great liga- ment ; and, by its apex, to the spine of the ischium. Foramina. Between the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament and the innominate bone, is a large space subdivided by the small sacro-sciatic ligament. The part which lies above this ligament is a large oval opening, named the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It transmits the pyriform muscle and the gluteal and sciatic vessels and nerves. The part between the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic liga- Fig. 147.—Right half op a Female Pelvis, seen prom the inner side. (A. T.) f 1, supraspinous ligaments descend- ing to the sacrum from 2, 2, tlie lumbar spinous processes ; 3, 4, the lumbar and sacral spinal canal, with its periosteal lining; 5, placed on the ilium above the anterior sacro- iliac ligament; 6, placed in the great sacro-sciatic foramen, points to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; 7, greater sacro-sciatic ligament, with 7', its con- tinuation over the inner border of the tuberosity of the ischium ; 8, a portion of the wall of the cotyloid cavity, re- moved so as to give a View from the inside of the head of the fenuir ; 9, the round ligament put upon the stretch, the femur being partially flexed and adducted ; 10, the inner part of the shaft of the femur. ments, much smaller in size, and bounded in front by the smooth surface between the spine and tuberosity of the ischium, is the small sacro-sciatic foramen, Fig. 147.