(5 VERTEBEATE TYPE. brate type of org-anisation, although there is an agreement in the repetition of parts of like structure in a longitudinal series ; and it is unnecessary here to trace the correspondence between their structure and that of man. In the human body, as in that of all vertebrate animals, the character of segmentation is most obvious in the osseous and nervous systems, so that the form and structure of the other systems seem to be in some measure moulded upon those of the skeleton and cerebro-spinal axis. The trunk of the body more especially is formed of a series of parts or segments of similar structure sufficiently distinct in some of the systems, but more or less blended together in others. Such ideal segments of the body may be named vertehral i<cgmcnts, or somatomes (Goodsir). In the limbs, although in the earliest stages of their formation some segmental connection may be traced between them and the trunk, the repetition of vertebral elements is, in their more advanced state of growth greatly obscured by the modifications of form and structure they have undergone. Vertebrate Hom.olog'y.—A correspondence in the structure and connection of parts or organs constitutes what is now called anatomical liomolorjij. and the same term is frequently employed to designate anatomical correspondence of parts serially repeated in the same animal : but for this last or serial homo- logy the modified term of homofi/pfj, suggested by Owen, may with advantage be substituted. Thus, the arm-bone or humerus of man is homologous with the upper bone of the foreleg of a quadruped or of the wing of a bird, while it is properly homotypic with the thigh-bone of man himself or any other vertebrate animal. It has further been fomid convenient to express by the word analornj that kind of resemblance among the organs of animals which, though indicating similarity of function, and even in some respects of structure, is not rendered complete by anatomical relation and connection. This general resemblance may be very great ; but it is of a different kind from that absolute identity which is implied by the term anatomical homology, which is intended to convey the idea of entire correspondence in fundamental structure, position, and connection of any organ, or set of organs, in relation to a general plan or type of construction of the organism, and which might be almost looked upon as synonymous with anatomical identity—a correspondence, too, which is conceived to be traceable through all the modifications, however great, which the form and structure of the organs may have undergone in the course of their development. Thus, the heart of a fish or amphibian, though very different in external form and internal arrang'ement, is strictly homologous with that of a mammal or of man ; or, in other words, it is anatomically the corresponding organ. But the heart of the crustacean, though muscular in its structure, and fitted to propel the blood through the system, and thus annlogous to the heart of a vertebrate animal, is not regarded as strictly homologous with it. because it differs in its anatomical relation to the rest of the organism, and cannot be referred to the same place in a general plan of structure. Symmetry of Form.—A remarkable regularity of form pervades the organisa- tion of certain parts of the body, especially the whole of the limbs, the head and neck, and the framework, at least, and external walls of the trunk of the body. Thus, if we conceive the body to be divided by a plane which passes from its dorsal to its ventral aspect (mesial plane), the two halves, in so far as regards the parts previously mentioned, correspond almost exactly with each other, ex- cepting by their lateral transposition,—and the human body thus presents in a marked manner the character of lateral symmetrij. There is, however, a depar- ture from this symmetrical form in the developed condition of certain of the internal organs, such as the alimentary canal from the stomach downwards, the heart and first part of the great bloodvessels, the liver, spleen, and some other viscera, which are therefore stj^led the non-symmetrical parts or viscera. But, while the parts on each side of the mesial plane are thus so far symmetrical, the same correspondence does not hold between parts situated in the dorsal and ventral regions, nor even between those placed in the cephalic and caudal extre- mities of the body. In the first, with the exception of the division of the ventrally-placed sternum into segments which often correspond to a certain number of the dorsal vertebras, no such dorso-ventral symmetry exists : and in the