316 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. surface of the eight inferior ribs, by slips arranged in a serrated series, four or five of them meeting with origins of the serratus magnus, and three or four with origins of the latissimus dorsi. The shps of these two sets of muscles alternate with each other, as the tips of the fingers of one hand may be made to fit in between those of the other, and hence they are said to interdigitate, and are termed digitations. The lower and upper digitations of the external oblique are connected with the ribs near their cartilages, the others are attached to the ribs at some distance from their extremities ; the lowest digitation generally embraces the point of the twelfth rib. The fleshy fibres from the last ribs pass down in nearly a vertical direction to be inserted into the ex- ternal margin of the crest of the ilium for about the anterior half of its length ; all the rest incline downwards and forwards, and terminate in tendinous fibres, which form the broad aponeurosis by which the muscle is inserted. The cqmieurosis of the external oblique muscle, wider at the lower than at the upper part, and larger than that of either of the subjacent abdominal muscles, extends inwards towards the middle line in front; at some distance from this, but farther out above than below, it becomes inseparably united with the aponeurosis beneath, and forms a part of the sheath of the rectus muscle in the whole extent of the space from the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis pubis. The upper part of the aponeurosis is connected externally with the larger pectoral muscle. Its lower fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend across from the anterior superior iliac spine to the spine of the pubis, in the form of a broad band, which is called Poupart's ligament This band is curved at the middle and outer parts, the convexity of the curve being directed towards the thigh, a form which is given to it by its connection with the fascia lata of the limb. Above the crest of the pubis the fibres of the aponeurosis, separating from the inner part of Poupart's ligament, leave between them an oblique opening, the 8Uj)erficial or external aMominal ring, through which passes the spermatic cord in the male and the round liga- ment in the female. The direction of this opening is upwards and outwards, its base being formed by the pubic crest, and its sides by the two sets of diverging fibres called the ^nllars. The upper or internal pillar is attached to the anterior surface of the symphysis pubis, inter- lacing with the corresponding fibres of the opposite side ; the lower or external pillar is formed by Poupart's ligament, near its attach- ment to the spine of the pubic bone. The inner pillar is flat and straight, but the outer, especially near its attachment to the pubis, is thick and triangular. The innermost fibres of the outer pillar are continued over the crest of the pubis and beneath the spermatic cord in a thin somewhat fan-shaped layer called the triangular fascia, which, curving upwards and inwards, passes behind the base of the inner pillar to interlace with the fibres of the opposite side. A portion of the aponeurosis, which is reflected backwards and out- wards along the pectineal line from the attaclnnent of Poupart's liga- ment to the spine of the pubis, constitutes a small triangular process with a curved external border, not far distant from the femoral ring. This receives the name of Gimbernat's ligament. Some curved fibres, directed across the diverging pillars and uniting them together, are named inter columnar. A few of these, descending upon the spermatic