MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 284 Varieties.—This muscle may be inseparably imited with, and even upon'bne side replaced by the anterior belly of the digastric. It frequently receives an accessory slip from one of the other hyoid muscles, as the stemo-hyoid, omo hyoid, or stylo-hyoid. The genio-liyoid. is a narrow muscle arising from the inferior of the two genial tubercles behind the symphysis of the jaw, and inserted into the anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. Bdntlons.—It is in contact above with the lower border of the g-enio-oiossus muscle, and below with the mylo-hyoid and with its fellow in the middle line. Nerves.—The mnscles of this group receive their motor nerves from various sources, viz., the anterior belly of the digastric and the mylo-hyoid from the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve, ani the posterior belly of the digastric and the stylo-hyoid from the facial nerve neai the place of its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. The genio-hyoid receives its motor nerve from the hypoglossal. Actions.—Tlie genio-hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles draw the hyoid bone upwards and forwards, as happens in the first stage of deglutition. The stylo- hyoid muscles draw it upwards and backwards, and come into action in raising the pitch of the voice. The anterior belly of the digastric muscle acts by itself like the genio-hyoid and the posterior half like the stylo-hyoid ; but when ])oth Fig. 210. bellies act together they are capable of producing two movements, in one of which, when the lower javr is fixed, X,,.-^-'^ the hyoid bone is elevated, and in the other, when the hyoid bone is held downwards by the depressing muscles, 7 V,^'"^ the lower jaw is depressed. Fig. 210.—MuscLTiS OP ths Tongue, Pharynx, &c,, of THE LEFT SIDE. (A. T.) a, external pterygoid pro- cess ; 6, styloid process ; c, section of the symphysis of the lower jaw ; d, front of the body of the hyoid bone; e, thyroid cartilage ; /, cricoid cartilage ; between d and e, the thyro-hyoid membrane and ligament ; g, isthmus of the thyroid gland ; 1, stylo-glossus muscle ; 2, stylo-hyoid ; 3, stylo-pliaryngeus ; 4, cut edge of the mylo-hyoid ; 5, genio- hyoid ; 6, genio-liyo-glossus ; 7, hyo-glossus ; 8, linguaiis in- ferior ; 9, part of the superior constrictor of the jjharynx ; 10, back part of the middle con- sti'ictor ; 11, inferior consfcrictor; 12, upper part of the cesopha- gus ; 1-3, crico-thyroid muscle. MUSCLES OF TI-IE TONGUE. The tongue is a muscular organ attached posteriorly to the hyoid bone, and inferiorly to the lower jaw. It is composed partly of fibres