GASTROCNEMIUS MUSCLE. 249 The gastrocnemiTis muscle arises by two thick tendinous heads from the condyles of the femur, and ends below in the tendo Achillis. The Fig. 193.—Superficial Muscles of the Leg, seex FKOM BEHIND (after Bourgery). | 1, lower outer part of the vastus muscle ; 2, biceps flexor cruris ; 8, semitendinosus ; 4, semi- membranosus ; 5, gracilis ; 6, sartorius ; 7, outer, and 8, inner head of the gastrocnemius ; 9, jDlaced in the popliteal space, points to the plantaris ; 9', its thin tendon inside the tendo Achillis ; 10, the filores of the soleus descending to the flat tendon, which joining with that of the gastrocnemius, forms + + the tendo Achillis ; 11, peroneus longus ; 12, peroneus brevis; 13, flexor longus digitorum ; 14, tibialis posticus ; 15, is placed on the lower part of the fibula, and points to the lower fibres of the flexor longus pollicis, the tendon of which is seen descending over the tibia at 15'. G- Fig. 193 V 3 -12 outer tendon of origin is attached to a depression on the outer side of the ex- ternal condyle, above the groove for the popliteus muscle_, and also to the upper and back part of the same condyle. The inner ft^ tendon is attached in a horizontal line to an ^ impression above the back part of the in- ternal condyle, and to a small part of the xidge running to the linea aspera. The muscular fibres descending from the two heads remain separated by a vertical groove on the surface, but those next the middle meet at an angle on a tendinous structnve | ' / below. The fibres of the superior tendons spread out upon the surface of the mus- f| i fj cle ; the inferior tendon lies on the dee]> ^ surface of the muscular mass, and is con tinued upv^^ards in a thin aponeurosis witl ^-'fk parallel fibres, which glide against the soleus: between the superficial tendon of each head and the deep common tendon, the greater number of the muscular fibres run obliquely downwards and forwards. The lower edge of each muscular part presents a convexity downwards ; the inner descending farthest. A synovial bursa, usually communicating with the knee-joint, lies beneath the inner head of origin, and separates it from the tendon of the semimembranosus muscle. In the outer head a sesamoid fibro- cartilage is sometimes met with over the outer condyle of the femur, which is occasionally found ossified. Belations.—The heads of the gastrocnemius muscle form the inferior boundaries of the popliteal space, and are placed between the hamstring- muscles : the pero- neal nerve is lodg-ed between the external head, and the biceps. The g-astrocne- mius conceals the popliteus, ]3lantaris and soleus muscles, with the popliteal