360 AETERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. tion of about one case in eight and a half of those observed by him ; and it was found to occur more frequently above than below that point. The left carotid artery varies in its origui much more frequently than the right. In the greater number of its deviations from the ordinary place of origin, this artery arises from, or in conjunction with the innominate artery ; and in those cases in which the right subclavian is a separate branch of the aorta, the two carotids most frequently arise by a common trunk. In cases of transposition, or of right aortic arch without other abnormality, the left common carotid springs from a left innominate artery, which is the first vessel to rise from the arch, and the right carotid is the second vessel. Place of dldsio7i.—This often deviates somewhat from its usual position ; it does so more frequently in an upward than in a downward direction. It is often as high as the os hyoides, and occasionally much higher. It is found from time to time opposite the middle of the larynx, and, in rare instances, opposite the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, or even lower. One case was observed by Morgagni, in which the carotid artery, measuring one inch and a half in length, divided at the root of the neck. (" De Sedibus et Causis Morborum," Epist. 29, Art. 20.) The common carotid artery has been found, as a very rare occurrence, to ascend in the neck n-ithout dlvid'mg into its two usual terminal branches ; the internal carotid artery being altogether wanting. In two recorded cases the common carotid artery was absent, the external and internal carotids arising directly from the arch of the aorta. J delation to nerves.—In one case the pneumogastric nerve v.^as observed to descend in front of the artery. Occasional hranclies.—The common carotid artery sometimes gives origin at its upper part to the superior thyroid artery, and, in some rare cases, to a laryngeal or an inferior thyroid branch ; also, in a few instances, to the vertebral artery. GUHGICAIj anatomy 05- THE COMMON CAROTID ABTERY. As the common carotid does not in ordinary cases furnish any branch, a ligature can be applied to any part of the vessel except immediately at its commencement and termination. It is usually tied either immediately above or below the omo-hyoid muscle, the operation above the muscle being pre- ferred if possible because here the artery is more superficial, and is at the same time free from the difficulties offered by the muscles lower down, and by the superior thyroid veins, if the artery be secured near its bifurcation. An incision three inches long is made from, the level of the hyoid bone downwards along the inner margin of the stemo-mastoid muscle. Before dividing the integument it is well to ascertain Vv^hether the anterior jugular vein be in the line of incision. The sterno-mastoid is slightly everted, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid displayed, Vt^hich last is then raised and turned inwards. On the front of the sheath of the vessels may now be seen the descendens noni nerve. The sheath is to be opened over the artery near the trachea in order to avoid the internal jugular vein, and it is best to insert the aneurism needle conveying the ligature on the outer side of the artery, for thus ■the vein and the pneumogastric nerve -will be most effectually avoided. Should the internal jugular vein lie in front of the artery, as it sometimes does on the left side, and especially at the lower part of the neck on that side, it will be a source of much difficulty in completing the operation, and much caution will be required in passing the aneurism needle with the ligature about the artery. Should the operation be performed at the lower part of the neck, some fibres of the muscles will require to be cut across in order to lay the artery bare with facility; and the necessity for this step increases in approaching towards the clavicle. EXTEKNAL CAEOTID AETERY. FORM POSITION.—The external carotid artery, distributed mainly to the face and to the walls of the cranium, is smaller than the internal carotid in young persons : but the two are nearly of equal size in