333 MOHPHOLOGY OF THE TEUNK-MUSCLES. for the most part in a longitudinal direction, as from spine to spine, in spinalis and interspinales ; from transverse process to transverse process in long-issimus dorsi and intertransversales ; or from rib to rib in ilio-costalis. The second set consist of muscular fibres directed more or less obliquely upwards and outwards from spines to transverse processes, as in splenius capitis and colli, rectus posticus major and obliquus inferior. The tJiircl set are also oblique, but they are directed upwards and inwards from transverse processes to spine, as in complexus, semi- spinalis, multifidus, and obliquus superior ; and from transverse processes to laminse, as in rotatores costarum. In the posterior part of the trunk in tailed animals this dorsal series of muscles is continued backwards without interruption as the superior caudal muscles, and in man an occasional muscle is sometimes found developed as an extensor coc» cygis ; but as a general rule owing to the very slight development of the caudal vertebrse, and the large size of the pelvic girdle, the dorso-lateral muscles do not in man extend beyond the upper part of the sacrum. Anteriorly this muscle is prolonged to the side of the head, where it forms 'the group of temporal, pterygoids, masseter, and probably the orbital muscles. The connection between these muscles and the dorsal muscles is well seeai in the Tailed-Batrachians, where the fibres of the dorsal muscle are directly continuous with those of the temporal. In man this continuity is interrupted by the ossifi- cation of the temporal ridge and root of the zygoma. The vcntro-latcral muscle, while equally simple in the lowest vertebrates with the dorso-lateral, presents in the higher animals m.uch greater complexity both of form and attachments. As regards its general relation to the vertebral axis of the body it may be divided into two portions, which are usually quite distinct from each other. The first or deeper portion is that to which the name of liypaxlal may most properly be applied. It consists of fibres which lie for the most part immediately under the bodies of the vertebrse and attached to them. They may also spread round the internal surface of the walls of the visceral cavity of the body, and may even, as in the diaphragm and levator ani, spread across that cavity, forming one or more muscular partitions. Posteriorly this set of muscles is prolonged on the under surface of the tail, as the most deeply situated layer, corresponding to an occasional muscle in man, the curvator coccygis. In man, also, two prolongations are sent outwards on the hind limb, one on its preaxial border, the psoas, the other on its postaxial, the pyriformis. Passing forwards, we find belonging to the same group, the subvertebral muscles, represented in man by the subcostals, but which in birds, serpents, &c., are very largely developed as the retrahentes costarum and the levatores costarum interni ; also the various diaphragms, including the post-cardiac or midriff, and the pelvic or levator ani. In this list, also, should be placed the triangularis sterni, or, as it is called by some, the subcostalis anterior. In front of the thorax these hypaxial muscles are prolonged in two sub-divi- sions, of which the upper forms the recti antici and longus colli, and the lower includes the muscles which connect together the various parts of the hyo- branchial arches and jaws, and invest the buccal and pharjTigeal cavities ; the chief of these being the hyoid and styloid muscles, the digastric, or at least its posterior belly, the lingual muscles, the buccinator and palatal muscles, and the constrictors of the pharynx. The second or more superficial portion of the ventro-lateral muscle may be dis- tinguished as paraxial (Mivart). It arises in connection with the transverse processes of the vertebree, from their lower surfaces and tips and from the lateral septa and general fascial investment. It thus at its place of attachment to the vertebral axis separates the epaxial from the hypaxial sets of muscles. It is further distinguished by the disposition which certain of its sclerotomes show to ossification in the ribs and the limb-girdles. These paraxial muscular bundles form the superficial layer of muscles on the ventral surface of the tails of fishes, fee, and almost the entire thickness of the muscular layer which bounds the visceral cavity of all vertebrates. Their connection with the alimentary canal is limited to its extremities where they form the external sphincters.