305 SHORT CEANIO-VERTEBRAL MUSCLES. connected one to each of the two parts into which the spinous process is divided. In the dorsal part of the column only a few are met with, and these are not constant. Varieties.—^The sjnnalis cervieis consists of a few in-egnlar bundles of fibres, of gi-eater length than the preceding- muscles, placed close to the ligamentum nuchse : they arise by two or more heads from the spines of the fifth and sixth cervical and sometimes other neighbouring vertebrae, and are inserted into the spine of the axis, and occasionally into the two vertebrse next below it. This muscle is sometimes wanting. (See Henle and Heilenbeck, in Miiller's " Archiv," 1837.) The name sacro-coccygeus 2^osfieus, or extenso?' coccygis, has been given to slender fibres occasionally found extending from the lower end of the sacrum to the coccyx, and representmg the extensor of the caudal vertebrae of other animals. (Giinther and Milde, " Chirurgische Muskellehre," quoted by Theile, " Sommerring vom Baue," &c.) Short Posterior Craxio-Yertebral Muscles.— The rectus C5apitis posticus major muscle arises by a narrow tendon from the spinous process of the axis, and expanding as it passes upwards and outwards, is inserted into and beneath the outer part of the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. Its insertion is inside and below that of the superior oblique muscle. The rectus capitis posticus minor muscle arises from the posterior arch of the atlas by the side of the tubercle, and expands as it passes to be inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, and the rough surface between that and the foramen magnum. The obliquus capitis inferior, the strongest of the muscles now under consideration, arises from the spinous process of the axis, between t'he origin of the rectus posticus major and the insertion of the semi- spinalis colli, and is inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The obliquus capitis superior, smaller than the preceding muscle, arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, inclines from thence obliquely upwards and backwards, increasing some- what as it ascends, and is inserted into a groove situated externally to the inferior curved line of the occipital bone. Eclations.—The two oblique muscles with the rectus major, form the sides of a small triangular space, in the area of which the posterior primary branch of the sub-occipital nerve and the vertebral artery will be found. Nerves.—All the muscles of the back which are unconnected with the upper limb, viz., the posterior serrati, splenius, complexus, erector spinas, and the muscles more deeply seated are supplied by the posterior primary branches of the spinal nerves. Actions.—The transverso-spinales muscles, including the complexus, are essen- tially ext ensors of the head and vertebral column ; and the movements produced by them vary according as the muscles of one side or both are in action, in a manner similar to that already pointed out in regard to the erector muscles. The interspinales and intertransversales muscles approximate the vertebrs8 between which they pass, and thus may act as extensors and lateral flexors respectively of the portion of the vertebral column in which they are situated. Of the four muscles last described, two—the rectus minor and superior oblique '—act principally by drawing the head backwards, that being the chief movement allowed between the atlas and occipital bone ; while the principal action of the rectus posticus major and the inferior oblique, when acting on one side, is to rotate the atlas and skull upon the axis, VOL. I. ^