Fig, 208. 282 MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Fig. 208.—View op the Sub- tendon is connected with the body and great cornu of the os hyoides by a broad band of aponeurotic fibres in the form of a loop, and hned with synovial membrane, and by the fleshy fibres of the stylo-byoid muscle, through which the tendon passes. I^elatioiis.-^The anterior belly, placed immediately beneath the deep cervical fascia, rests on the mylo-hyoid muscle ; it is connected with its fellow of the opposite side by dense fascia, and occasionally is united by muscular fibres to it or to the mylo-hyoid muscle. The posterior belly is covered by the mastoid process and the muscles arising- from that bone, and crosses the external carotid artery, and the internal jugular vein. 3IAXILLAR.Y MuSCLES AND THE Depressors op ths Hyoid Bone and Larynx, from before. (a. t.) ^ On the right side, the i)latys- ma aloue lias been removed ; on the left side both the belHes of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the mylo-hyoid, the sterno-hyoid, and omo- hyoid muscles have been re- moved : a, symphysis ; b, angle of the lower jaw; c, middle of the body of the hyoid bone ; d, mastoid pi'o- cess ; c, pLiced on the front of the thyroid cartilage, points to the thyro-hyoid mnscle ; /, tipper part of the sternum ; f/, lateral lobe, and +, isth- mus of the thyroid gland ; above +, the front of the cricoid cartilage covered by the crico-thyroid muscle ; 1, posterior belly; 1', anterior belly of right digastric muscle; 2, right mylo-hyoid ; 3, left genio-hyoid ; 4, hyo-glossus ; 5, stylo-glossus ; 5', a portion of it seen on the right side ; 6, stylo-hyoid of the right side ; 7, stylo-phixryngeus of the left side ; 8, placed on the levator scapulae, points to the left middle constrictor of the pharynx ; 9, placed on the middle scalenus, points to the left inferior constrictor ; 10, right sterno-hyoid ; 11, placed on the left sterno-thyroid, points also to the lower part of the right muscle ; 12, placed on the right sterno-mastoid, points to the upper and lower bellies of the right omo-hyoid. Tarieties.—The digastric muscle is subject to many variations. The posterior belly may re'ceive an accessory slip from the styloid process (AVood), or from the angle of the lower jaw (Henle). It has been seen arising from the styloid process. Earely the muscle is monogastric, the posterior belly alone being present and being inserted into the ramus of the jaw (McWhinnie). The anterior belly is frequently divided into two or more joarts, one or even two of which may cross the middle line and decussate with similar slips from the muscle of the opposite side : or a slip sometimes passes to the median raphe of the mylo-hyoid, with which and its fellow of the opposite side it becomes incorporated. The tendon of the digastric has been seen in front of, or more rarely behind the stylo-hyoid * instead of passing through it. The mento-hyoid (Macalister) is an occasional mesial slip found passing