THE HIP-JOINT. 165 side to side, so as to render the circumference complete, and deeper transverse fibres are superadded, from which circumstance, as well as from being stretched across from one margin of the notch to the other, this part is called the transverse ligament. Beneath it an interval is left for the admission of the articular vessels. The interarticular or round ligament (ligamentum teres) is a strong fasciculus surrounded by synovial membrane, implanted by one extremity, which is round, into the fossa in the head of the femur ; by the other, which is broad, flat, and bifid, into the margins of the cotyloid notch, where its fibres become blended with those of the transverse ligament. It rests on the fat in the depression of the acetabulum. The capsular ligament or membrane surrounding the joint is attached superiorly to the margin of the cotyloid cavity, and inferiorly to the neck of the femur. At its cotyloid attachment the capsule arises, above and behind, from the bony margin outside the attachment of the cotyloid ligament, having its inner surface in close contact with that ligament; in front it arises from the outer aspect of the cotyloid ligament near its base, and at the notch it is similarly attached to the transverse ligament. At its femoral attachment the capsule extends anteriorly to the intertrochanteric line, superiorly to the root of the great trochanter, posteriorly and inferiorly to the junction of the middle and external thirds of the neck. The fibres of which the cap- sule consists run in two directions, circularly and longitudinally. The circular fibres are found in the middle of the lower wall of the capsule, gathered into a thick broad band {Zona orMcuIaris, Henle,) which as it extends upwards spreads out so as to form a tolerably even layer over the front and upper part of the joint. Behind, these fibres again form a band which for about a finger's breadth next the neck of the femur complete the capsule. The circular fibres are embedded to some extent in the longitudinal fibres, except posteriorly, where the latter are ahnost absent, being represented by a few scattered fibres which support the synovial membrane, and attach the circular fibres to the neck of the bone. In other parts of the capsule the longitudinal fibres form thick bands, certain of which from their greater size and streno-th are distinguished as accessory hgaments. The chief of these are formed on the anterior and superior aspects of the capsule. The ilio-femoral ligament consists of two diverging bands of fibres, which arise from the anterior inferior iliac spine, and pass obliquely downwards over the front of the joint. The inner of these bands passes almost vertically to the root of the small trochanter ; the outer to the upper end of the anterior inter- trochanteric line. In the triangular space thus left between the bands, the deeper fibres of the capsule are seen. On the superior aspect of the joint the outer band of the ilio-femoral ligament is joined by another band of fibres {Uio-troclianteric) which is attached to the ilium, above the origin of the long head of the rectus femoris muscle, and to the root of the great trochanter on its anterior aspect. To the under surface of the capsule, a broad and strong band of fibres (ischio-capsular) passes from the furrow on the ischium below the acetabulum to end in the circular fibres. In front and below may be also found a number of scattered fibrous bundles, which converge to the capsule from the ilio- pectineal eminence, from the margin of the obturator foramen, and from the obturator membrane, and to which Henle has given the name of pubo-femoral ligament. Besides these the capsule receives other strength-