ARTICULATIONS OF THE LOWER LIMB. 176 of the cavity just mentioned, and lies deeply at the anterior part of the fossa (sinus pedis), between the astragalus and os calcis. Its fibres, very short, are directed from behind forwards between the contiguous extremities of the bones. They are attached posteriorly to a ridge of the OS calcis that separates the articular surfaces for the astragalus and os ,- cuboides, and anteriorly to the outer side of the scaphoid bone. The talo-scaphoid or astragalo-scaphoid ligament, a membranous band of fibres situated on the dorsum of the foot, extends obliquely forwards from the anterior extremity of the astragalus to the superior surface of the scaphoid bone, and completes the capsule of the calcaneo- talo-scaphoid joint, formed in the rest of its extent by the plantar and external calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments. Two synovial membranes line the articulations of the calcaneum and scaphoid with the astragalus, one belonofing to the calcaneo-talar joint, and another to the calcaneo-talo-scaphoid articulation. Calcaneo-Cuboid Articulation.—The calcaneum is united to the cuboid bone by a synovial joint and ligaments. The inferior ligament consists of two distinct fasciculi of fibres, of which one is superficial, the other deep-seated. The superficial parts called the long plantar ligament, is the longest of the tarsal liga- ments. Its fibres, attached behind to the inferior surface of the calca- neum as far as the anterior tubercle, pass forwards, and are attached in greater part to the tuberosity on the under surface of the cuboid bone ; some of them are continued onwards, and termmate at the bases of the Fig. 158. Fig. 158.—Ligaments op the Foot, from the inner side. (A. T.) ^ 1, internal lateral ligament of the ankle ; x , in front of the sustentaculum tali, show- ing part of the internal lateral ligament descending upon it ; 2, posterior talo-calcaneal ligament; 3, posterior ligament of the ankle-joint; 4, part of the long and short calca- neo-cuboid ligaments seen from the inside ; 5, two superior astragalo-scaphoid or talo- scaphoid ligaments ; 6, internal talo-scaphoid ligaments ; 7, internal scaphoido-cuneiform (first) ; 8, dorsal or superior cuneiform ; 9, scaphoido-cuneiform (second) ; 10, inter- cuneiform, or transverse dorsal cuneiform, between the first and second cuneiform bones ; 11, internal or first tarso-metatarsal ligament; 12, inferior first tarso-metatarsal ; 13, in- ternal lateral metatarso-phalangeal ; the internal sesamoid bone is seen' below; 14, internal lateral interphalangeal ligament of the first toe.