BONES OF THE HEAD. €4 cribriform plate of the ethmoid where it is pierced by numerous small foramina and rises to a convexity over the orbits. The foramen cascum is situated in front of the crista galli of the ethmoid bone. The middle fossa, on a lower level than the anterior, presents a mesial and two lateral parts. The mesial part is small, being formed by the olivary process and sella turcica of the sphenoid bone, and limited be- Fig. 54. Fig. 54.—Antero-Posteiiiofv Vertical Section of the Adult Skull a little to THE left of the MIDDLE LINE. (A. T.) ^ 1, nasal bone ; 2, perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, with olfactory foramina and grooves at its upper part ; 3, vomer ; 4, nasal process of the right superior maxillary bone, forming pai-t of the wall of the right nasal fossa ; below this, the anterior extremity of the right inferior turbinated bone overhanging x , which is the right inferior meatus of the nose ; 5, crista galli ; 6, inner surface of the frontal bone ; 7, of the parietal bone ; 8, squamous part of the temporal ; 9, on the occipital bone below the internal occipital protuberance ; 10, external occipital protuberance ; 11, on the condylar process helow the anterior condylar foramen ; 12, on the posterior su.rface of the petrous bone below the meatus auditorius internus ; between 9 and 12, the groove of the right lateral sinus ; 13, placed above the sella turcica ; 14, part of the left frontal sinus ; 15, part of the left sphenoidal sinus, the figure being placed on the septum of the sinuses ; 16, hard palate and alveolar arch—the figure is placed near the lower opening of the posterior palatine canal, and the grooves which extend forwards from it ; 17, anterior nasal spine ; 18, section of the left superior maxillary bone, and near the place to which the line points, the section of the lower part of the anterior palatine canal; 19, on the inner surface of the ramus of the lower jaw, below the sigmoid notch, and above the inferior dental fora- men ; 20, inner surface of the body of the jaw on the mylo-hyoid ridge ; 21, surface of section of the lower jaw to the left of the symphysis ; behind the symphysis, and between 21 and 22, the mental spines ; 23, groove for the mylo-hyoid nerve.