627 THE GREAT SYMPATHETIC CORDS. the ganglia are connected by interven- ing cords. These cords are placed sym- metrically in front of the vertebral column, and extend from the base of the skull to the coccyx. Superiorly they are connected with plexuses which enter the cranial cavity, while inferiorly they converge on the sacrum, and terminate in a single ganglion on the coccyx. The several portions of the cords are dis- tinguished as cervical, dorsal, lumbar, and sacral, and in each of these parts the ganglia are equal in number, or nearly so, to the vertebra3 on which they lie, except in the neck, where there are only three. m Yicr. 381. Pig. 381.—Diagrammatic Outline of the Sym- pathetic COKD OF ONE SIDE IN CONNECTION WITH THE Spinal Nerves. The full description of tliis figure will be found at p. 568. On the right side the following letters indicate pai-ts of the sympathetic nerves, viz. a, the superior iservical ganglion, communicating with the upper cervical spinal nerves and continued beloAV into the great sympathetic cord ; 6, the middle cer- vical ganglion ; c, d, the lower cervical ganglion united with the first dorsal ; d', the eleventh dorsal ganglion ; from the fifth to the ninth dorsal ganglia the origins of the great splanchnic jierve are shown ; I, the lowest dorsal or upper lumbar ganglion ; ss, the upper sacral ganglion. In the whole extent of the sympathetic cord, the twigs of union with the spinal nerves are shown. 'Connection of ilie gamfdaied cords with the cerelro-spinal system. — The ganglia are severally connected with the spinal nerves in their neighbourhood by means of short filaments ; each connect- ing filament consisting of a white and a grey portion, the former of which may be considered as proceeding from the spinal nerve to the ganglion, the latter from the ganglion to the spinal nerve. At its upper end the ganghated cord communicates likewise with certain cranial nerves. The main cords inter- vening between the gangha, like the smaller filaments connecting the ganglia with the spinal nerves, are composed of a grey and a white part, the white being continuous with the fibres of the spinal nerves prolonged to the ganglia. 11 s s 2