105 THE PELYIS. interval between the sacrum and coccyx and the ischium on each side is bridf^ed over in the recent state by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, which therefore assist in boundin.o: the outlet of the pelvis. Position of the Pelvis.—In the erect attitude of the body, the pelvis is so inclined that the plane of the brim of the true pelvis forms an angle with the horizontal, which varies in different individuals frou) Figs. 92 & 93. Sketches of the Male AND Female Pelvis AS SEEN FROM ABOVE AND IN FRONT. (A. T. ) In fig. 90 of the fe- male pelvis the lines are shown in wiiicli the di- mensions of the pelvis are nsiially measured at the brim. rt, p, antero-posterior or conjugate diameter ; t, r, transverse or widest diameter; o, 6, o, h, oblique diameters. In the original speci- mens, which were se- ieoted as giving the full average dimensions, the foUoNving were the mea- surements in inches :— Antero-posterior dia- meter — female, 4^ ; male, 4. Transverse diameter—female 5^ : male, 44. CJblique dia- meter—female, 5; male, GO°to C5°. Thebase of the sacrum was found by Niigele in a large number of well-formed female bodies to be about 31 inches above^the upper margin of the symphysis pubis; the level of the top of the coccyx he found varying from 22 lines above the apex of the pubic arcli to 9 lines below the same point, and on an average to be 7 or 8 lines above it (X;:igele, " Das weibliche Becken," &c., Carlsruhe, 1825 ; Wood, article " Pelvis " in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology). The pelvic aspect of the sacrmn, near its base, looks much more down- wards than forwards, hence the sacrum appears at first sight to occupy the position of the keystone of an arch ; but being in reality broader at its pelvic than on its dorsal aspect, it is a keystone inverted, or having its broad end lowest, and is supported in its place chiefly by cartilage^ and ligaments, but also to a slight extent by the inward projection of the anterior margin of the iliac articular surface. The line of pressure of the weight of the body on the sacrum is directed downwards towards . the symphysis pubis, and the resistance of the head of the thighbone . on each side is directed upwards and inwards.