SURGICAL ANATOMY OF HERXIJi:. 338 membrane by the obliteration of the intervening canal; and the hernial pro- trusion occurring- after such obliteration has been completed, carries with it a distinct serous investment—the sac. But if this process of obliteration should not take place, and if a hernia should be formed, the protruded part is then received into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis testis, which serves in the place of its sac. In this case the hernia is named congenital (hernia tunicai vaginalis, —Cooper). It is thus designated, because the condition necessary for its for- mation only exists normally about the time of birth ; but the same kind of A Fig. 235. B Fig. 235.—Diagram of a part op the Peritoneum akd the Tunica Vagina- lis Testis. In the first, A, the serous investment of the testis is seen to be continuous with the peritoneum ; -while in the second, b, the two membranes are shown distinct from each other. 1, the peritoneal cavity ; 2, the testis. hernia is occasionally found to be first formed in the adult, obviously in consequence of the tunica vaginalis re- maining unclosed, and still continuous with the peritoneum. The congenital hernia, should it reach the scrotum^ passes below the testis ; and, this organ being embedded in the protruded viscus, a careful examination is necessary in order to detect its position. This peculiarity serves to distinguish the congenital from the ordinary form of the disease. To the second variety of inguinal hernia, in which the distinguishing character depends on the state of the tunica vaginalis testis, the name infantile has been applied (Hey). The hernia in this case is covered with a distinct sac, which is again invested by the upper end of the tunica vaginalis. The relative position of the two serous membranes (the hernial sac and the tunica vaginalis) may be accounted for by supposing the hernia to descend when the process of the perito- neum, which accompanies the testis from the abdomen, has been merely closed at the upper end, but not obliterated for any length. Hence during an operation in such a case, the hernial sac is met with only after another serous bag (the tunica vaginalis testis) has been divided. The peculiarity here described has been repeatedly found present in the recently formed hernise of grown persons. The term infantile, therefore, like congenital, has reference to the condition of certain parts, rather than to the period of life at which the disease is first formed. In the female, oblique inguinal hernia follows the course of the round ligament of the uterus along the inguinal canal, in the same manner as in the male it follows the spermatic cord. After escaping from the external abdominal ring, the hernia lodges in the labium pudendi. The coverings are the same as those in the male body, with the exception of the cremaster, which does not exist in the female : but it occasionally happens that some fibres of the internal oblique muscle are drawn down over this hernia in loops, so as to have the appearance of a cremaster (Cloquet). A strictly congenital inguinal hernia may occur in the female, the protruded parts being received into the little diverticulum of the peritoneum (canal of Nuck), which sometimes extends into the inguinal canal with the round ligament. But as this process of the peritoneum, in such circumstances, would probably not differ in any respect from the ordinary sac, there are no means of distinguishing a congenital hernia in the female body. Birect isigumal hernia (internal: ventro-inguinal).—Instead of