AETICULATIOXS OF THE HAND. 157 likewise two processes between the three bones of the first row, and three between the four bones of the second. It is further continued downwards into the inner four carpo-metacarpal and three intermeta- carpal articulations. In some rare cases there is continuity with the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint, by deficiency of one of the interosseous ligaments between the carpal bones. The pisiform "bone is articulated by a fibrous capsule and synovial mem^brane with the cuneiform bone. Inferiorly it is united by two strong ligaments with the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones, and is sometimes also connected with other metacarpal bones; superiorly it receives the tendon of the fiexor carpi ulnaris muscle. The synovial cavity is usually distinct, but sometimes communicates with that of the radio-carpal articulation. The anterior annular ligament of the wrist is a strong and thick band, which extends from the prominences made by the trapezium and scaphoid bone on the radial side of the carpus, directly across to the pisiform bone and unciform process, and converts the transverse arch of the carpus into a ring through which the flexor tendons of the digits pass into the hand. The posterior annular ligament, placed at the back of the wrist, is only a thickened part of the aponeurosis of the forearm. It extends from the lower part of the radius, at its outer border, to the inner part of the cuneiform and pisiform bones and serves to bind down the extensor tendons. CARPO-METACARPAli AND INTERMETACARPAIj ARTICULATIONS Fig. 143.—General view op the Articulations OF THE Wrist and Hand from before. ^ 1, lower part of the interosseous membrane ; 2, and from that jDoint across the lower end of the radius, the palmar radio-carpal ligaments ; 3, sca- phoid bone ; 4, pisiform ; 5, trapezium ; 6, unci- form ; 7, OS magnum, with most of the deeper ligaments uniting these bones ; I, first metacarpo- phalangeal articulation with its external lateral ligament ; II to V, transverse metacarpal liga- ment : in the several phalangeal articulations the lateral ligaments are shown ; in the first the external only is visible. The four inner metacarpal bones are bound together at their distal ex- tremities by thin fibres passing between them on their palmar aspect, and consti- tuting the transverse lifjament. At their proximal extremities they are united to one another and to the carpal bones in articulations, the common synovial lining of which is derived from that of the carpal joint. In these articulations the four metacarpal bones are bound together by three dorsal, and three j[mlmar, and by strong interosseous ligaments. There are also dorsal ligaments uniting these meta- carpal bones with the carpus, each having two such ligaments except