THE INNOMINATE ARTERY. 355 the left auricular appendage ; its two branches also furnish throughout their course smaller offsets, which supply the left auricle, both ventricles, and the interventricular septum. It has been customary to describe the transverse branches of the coronary- arteries as anastomosing in the left auriculo-ventricular sulcus, and the des- cending branches as anastomosing near the apex of the heart, and this description was never doubted till it was found by Hyrtl, as the result of separate injection of these vessels, that the branches of one coronary artery cannot be injected with material introduced into the other. (Nat. Hist. Review. 1861, p. 321.) Varieties.—The coronary arteries have been observed in a few instances to commence by a common trunk, from which they diverged and proceeded to their usual destination. The existence of three coronary arteries is not a very rare occurrence, the third being small, and arising close by one of the others. Meckel, in one instance, observed four, the supplementary vessels appearing like branches of one of the coronary arteries transferred to the aorta. THE INNOMINATE AETEEY. The innominate, or brachio-cephalic arter}^ the largest of the vessels which proceed from the arch of the aorta, arises from the commence- ment of the transverse portion of the arch, before the left carotid artery. From this point the vessel ascends obliquely towards the right, until it arrives opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation of that side, nearly on a level with the upper mar^^in of the clavicle, where it divides into the right subclavian and the right carotid artery. The place of bifurcation would, in most cases, be reached by a probe passed back- wards through the cellular interval between the sternal and clavicular portions of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The length of the innominate artery is very variable, but usually ranges from an inch and a half to two inches. This artery, lying for the most part within the thorax, is placed behind the first bone of the sternum, from which it is separated by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and a little lower down by the left innominate vein, which crosses the artery at its root. The lower part of the innominate artery lies in front of the trachea, which it crosses obliquely : on its left side is the left carotid arterj^ with the thymus gland or its remains ; and to the right is the corresponding brachio-cephalic vein and the pleura. No branches usually arise from this vessel. Varieties.—The length of the innominate artery sometimes exceeds two inches, and occasionally it measures only one inch or less. Its place of division is a point of surgical interest, inasmuch as upon it in a great measure depends the accessibility of the innominate in the neck, and the length of the right subclavian artery. It has sometimes been found dividing at a considerable distance above the clavicle, and sometimes, but less frequently, below it. Though usually des- titute of branches, this vessel has been observed to supply a thyroid branch, the thyroidea ima, and sometimes a thymic branch, or a bronchial, which descends in front of the trachea. The thyroidea ima, is an occasional artery. When present, it usually arises (as already stated) from the innominate trunk, but in som-e instances it has been observed to come from the right common carotid artery, or from the aorta itself. More rarely it arises from the right internal mammary, or the right subclavian. It is of very different size in different bodies, and compensates in various degrees for deficiencies or absence of the other thyroid arteries. It ascends to its destination in front of the trachea, and its presence might therefore complicate the operation of tracheotomy. A A 2