THE SUBCLAVIAN AETERY. 384 patises along the roots of the spinal nerves, supplying the spinal cord and its membranes, and anastomoses with the other spinal arteries ; the other branch ramifies on the back part of the bodies of the vertebrce in the same manner as similar branches derived from the intercostal and lumbar arteries. (h) Muscular branches of variable size are distributed to the deep-seated cervical muscles. B. Cranial branches: («) The posterior meningeal artery is a small branch which arises opposite the foramen magnum, and ramifies between the dura mater and the bone in the occipital fossa, and upon the falx cerebelli. There are sometimes two of these small vessels. (Jj) The 2)ostcrior spinal artery, arising at an obtuse angle from the vertebral, inclines backwards round the medulla oblongata to reach the back part of the spinal cord ; aided by reinforcements from small arteries which ascend upon the cervical and dorsal nerves through the intervertebral foramina, it may be traced along the cord, lying behind the roots of the nerves, as a minute tortuous vessel, or rather a series of little inosculating vessels, as far as the second lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in ramifications on the cauda equina. Fig. 256. Fig. 256. — Deep Dis- section OF THE Sub- clavian Artery on the right side, show- ing the origin and course of the ver- TEBRAL Artery (from Tiedemann). -3- a. Upper part of the sterno-mastoid muscle, its clavicular part divided below ; 6, spinous process of the axis ; c, superior oblique muscle; (Z, placed on the inferior oblique muscle, points by a line to the posterior arch of the atlas veitebra ; e, semispinalis colli; /, placed on the longus colli, points to the trans- verse process of the sixth cervical vertebra ; ^, on the first rib, points to the scalenus anticus mus- cle cut near its attach- ment ; 1, innominate artery ; 2, right common carotid ; 3, right sub- clavian ; below it, the origin of the internal mammary artery ; above it, 4, the thyroid axis, its branches cut short ; 5, vertebral ai-tery, pass- ing up through the canal of the transverse pro- cesses and giving branches to the muscles ; 5', placed tin the rectus major, points to its horizontal part on the arch of the atlas ; 6, placed on the lower part of the divided scalenus medius, points to the trunk of the deep cervical artery; 7, occipital artery emerging from below the sterno-mastoid and other muscles attached to the mastoid process.