503 THE CAEDIAC YEmS. and is described by him under the name of vena i^f^'^umliUcalis. (Champneys, " Journ. of Aiiat.," vol. vi., p. 416), VEIKS OF THE HEART. The greater number of the cardiac veins are collected into a large common trmik which pours its blood into the posterior part of the right auricle, in the angle between the inferior vena cava and the right auriculo-ventricular orifice. The terminal part of this vein is consi- derably dilated, and is named the coronary sinus. The principal veins leading into it are named the great, the posterior, and the anterior coronary veins. Among these the first alone deserves the name of coronary, as it surrounds the heart in the left auriculo-ventri- cular groove. Besides the larger cardiac veins which join the great coronary sinus, there are also small separate veins (venee minimo3 cordis), which open directly into the right auricle, especially along its right border. The openings of these veins, as well as some depressions which do not admit veins, have been named foramina Thebesii. Fig. 321. — View of the Adult Heart, FROM BEHIND, TO SHOW THE CoRONARY VeINS, (A. T.) I a, placed on the back of the right auricle, points to the Eustachian valve seen within the^opening of the inferior vena cava ; 6, the back of the left auricle; c, the right ventri- cle ; rf, left ventricle ; e, vena caA^a supe- rior ; /, arch of the aorta; I, sinus of the great coronary vein ; 2, great coronary vein turn- ing round the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove ; 3, 4, posterior branches ; 5, one of the small right cardiac veins passing directly into the right auricle ; 6, the vestige of the left superior vena cava proceeding over the left auricle downwards to join the coronary sinus. The veins of the heart are without valves excepting at their terminations. The great cardiac vein (vena cordis magna) is a vessel of considerable size, and from the way in which it coils round the left side of the base of the heart, or rather of the ven- tricle, it may be^named "coronary." Its chief branch runs along the groove upon the tore part of the heart, corresponding with the septum of the ventricles. Commencing at the apex of the heart, it gradually increases m size as it approaches the base of the ventricles, and then mchnmg backwards and to the left side in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle, ends in the coronary sinus : a valve of two seo-- ments closes its aperture in the sinus. In this course it receives branches from the ventricles, especially from the left, and also from tne lett auricle: and as it passes round the thick margin of the left ventricle, it receives a vein of some size which ascends to join it 1 he posterior cardiac veins ascend on the back of the ventricles, especially on the left, and open into the coronary sinus bv four or more