THE SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. 539 Anterior dental "branch.—The anterior dental branch, leaving the trunk of the nerve at a varying distance behind its exit from the infra- orbital foramen, enters a special canal in front of the antrum of High- more. In this canal it receives the communicating filament from the posterior dental nerve, and divides into two branches, which furnish offsets for the front teeth. (rt) The mner braiicli supplies the incisor and canine teeth. Filaments from this nerve enter the lower meatus of the nose, and end in the membrane covering- the lower s-pongy bone. Also above the root of the canine tooth, it unites with a branch of the posterior nasal nerve from Meckel's gang-lion, and forms v/ith it a t^mall thickening-, the ffdn/jlu-n uf Boc/tdaU:k, from which branches are described as descendmg' to the alveolar process and gums of the incisor and canine teeth. (See Hyrtl's Lehrbuch, p. S04.) It is probable, however, that this enlargement contains no nerve cells, and is a minute plexus rather than an actual ganglion. (b) The t'.'.'^'fr branch gives filaments to the bicuspid teeth, and is connected with the posterior dental nerve. Infraorbital "branches- — The infraorbital branches, large and numerous^ spring from the end of the superior maxillary nerve beneath the elevator muscle of the upper lip, and are divisible into palpebral, nasal, and labial sets. Fig. 338. Fig. 338 —Deep View of the Sfheno-Palatine (iAiiGLioN, and its Connections ■sviTH oTHEe. Nerves, &c. (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille). g 1, superior roaxiilary nerve ; 2, posterior superior dental ; 3, second posterior dental braucli; 4, anterior Jental ; 5, union of these nerves ; 6, spbeno-palatine ganglion ; 7, Vidian nerve ; 8, its great superficial petrosal branch ; 9, its carotid branch ; 10, a part ct iLe fcfixtli nerve, leceiving twigs from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic ; 11, superior cervical sympathetic ganghon; 12, its carotid branch; 13, trunk of the facial nerve near the knee or Lend at the hiatus Fallopii ; 1'4, glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 15, .anastomosing branch of Jacohson ; 16, twig uniting it to the sympathetic ; 17, filament to :he fenestra rotunda ; 18, filament to the Eustachian tube : 19, filament to the fenestra ovalis ; 20, external deep petrosal nerve uniting with the lesser superficial petrosal ; 21, internal deep petrosal twig uniting with the great superficial petrosal. a. The2-f(^^_/JC^ral Iranch (there are sometimes two branches) turns upwards to the lower eyelid in a groove or canal of the bone, and supplies the orbicular muscle ; it ends in filainents which are distributed to the eyelid in its entire breadth. At the outer angle of the eyelids this nerve is connected with the facial nerve. h. The nasal Imnclies, directed inwards to the muscles and integument of the side of the nose, communicate with the cutaneous branch of the nasal nerve. The lalial, the largest of the terminal branches of the upper maxillary