SEMIMEMBHAXOSUS. 2S3 F:s. 1S6. popliteal space, resting on the semimembranosus, and cnrYes forwards to be inserted in an expanded form into the upper part of the tibia at its inner side. There the tendon is on the same plane Trith, but below that of the gracilis, both being under cover of the sartorius. A thin oblique tendinous intersection trayerses the muscle about the middle. Fig. 186.—Deep Muscirs 01 the Eight H12 AND Thigh, from; behixd. (A.T.) | a, anterior, a', posterior superior spine of Ihe ilium ; I', jDosterior inferior spine ; c, c, great and small trochanter ; d, symphysis pubis ; €, tuberosity of the ischium ; /, popliteal surface of the femur ; g, head of the fibula ; 1, gluteus minimus ; 2, obturator internus : the gemelli muscles have been removed ; 3, obturator ex- ternus ; 4, small part of the back of the pectineus and adductor brevis ; 5, origin of the adductor magnus from the lower part of the ischial tuberosity ; 5', 5', line of insertion of this muscle on the linea aspera, in -which are seen three arched tendinous intervals for the passage of the perforating vessels ; 5'', tendon, of insertion into the inner tuberosity of the femur; between the lower 5'and 5", the inter- val through vv-hicli the femoral vessels pass into the popliteal space ; the upper 5' is placed upon the cut end of the quadratus femoris ; 6, vastus externus ; 7, vastus internus ; 8, femoral head of the biceps femoris : the lower part is represented as passing too far inwards ; 8', its ischial head, cut short; 9, plantaris muscle : at its upper end the outer head of the gastrocnemius; the figure 5", is upon the cut inner head ; 10, pop- liteus, cut short below ; 11, tendon of the semi- membranosus; 12, upper part of the soleus. // The semimembranosus muscle arises from the tuberosity of the ischium, above and to the outside of the origin of the biceps and semi- tendinosus, by a strong flattened ten- don, two or three inches long, which, as it descends in front of the common tendon of those tvro muscles, passes to their inner side. The muscle pre- sents inferiorly a thick fleshy belly, ending in a short flattened tendon, which is inserted in tiu^ee parts : the principal part turns Ibrwards and is inserted into a well-marked oroove on the inner tuberosity of the tibia, beneath the iz'ernal lateral ligament- of the knee-joint, some of its fibres joining that ligament; a second part, passing downwards and outwards, expands in the aponeurosis over the popliteus muscle ; and the remaining fibres are directed upwards and outwards, and blend with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint,