SPHENOID BOXE. 41 separated from it oy a thin lamella, the jjrocessus coclileariformis, is a small passage which lodges the tensor t^^mpani muscle. The poderior horder articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone, and bounds the foramen lacerum posterius. Small 5'oramiaa.—The opening of the aqueductus rcstiljidl is a naiTow fissure, covered by a depressed scale of bone, and situated on the posterior surface of the petrous bone, about three lines behind the internal auditory meatus ; that of the (Kjitcdtictu.s cocJdecc is a small foramen, beginning in a three-sided wider depression in the posterior margin, directly below the internal auditory meatus. In the plate between the jugular fossa and the carotid canal is the foramen by which the nerve of Jacobson passes to the tympanum. In the ascending part of the carotid canal is the minute foramen for the tympanic branch of the carotid plexus. In the jugular fossa are a groove and foramen for the auricular branch of the vagus nerve ; and parallel to the hiatus Fallopii, close to the canal for the tensor tjonpani muscle, are a groove and foramen for the small superficial petrosal nerve. The description of the small bones of the ear with the tympanum and internal car, will be found in the chapter on the Organs of the Senses. THE SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid, or wedge-shaped bone, is placed across the base of the skull, near its middle. It enters into the formation of the cavity of the cranium, the orbits, and the posterior nares. It is of very irregular shape, and consists of a central part or hody, a pair of lateral expan- 1, tlie basilar surface, sawn separate from the occipital bone ; 2, Dorsum sellge, or inclined surface of tlie body terminating superiorly in the two posterior chnoid processes ; 3, is placed on the oUvary eminence or process, and between it and 2 is the sella turcica, or pituitary fossa ; in front of 3 is the transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 4, the side of the body with the sigmoid groove of the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus ; 5, the lesser wing ; x , the anterior clinoid process ; 6, the ethmoid spine ; 7^ the cerebral surface of the greater Vv^ing ; 8, the upper angle of the greater wing, Avhich articulates with the pa,rietal bone ; 9, the spinous ])rocess ; 10, the external, and 11, the interual pterygoid process ; 11, is placed opposite the hamular process and groove for the tendon of the tensor palati muscle ; 12, the optic foramen, 13, the sphenoida,l fissure or foramen lacerum orbitale ; 14, the foramen rotundum ; 15, the foramen ovale ; l*^, the foramen spinosum ; 17, is placed above the posterior opening of the pterygoid or Vidian, foraiaen.