COMMON VEHTEBRAL LIGAMENTS. 135 bra ; whilst the deeper ones pass only between adjacent vertebrge. The band is thicker towards the middle of the bodies of the yertebras than at their margins, or over the intervertebral cartilages; by which means the transverse depressions of the bodies are filled up, and the surface of the column rendered more even. The fibres adhere more closely to the margins of the bones than to the middle of their bodies^ and still more Fig. 118.—The 5ni, 6tii, 7th, Sth Fig. 118. AND 9th Dorsal Vertebra, with A part op the 6th, 7th, and 8th ElBS, FROM the right SIDE AND FRONT. (A. T.) ^ 1 to 2, the anterior common liga- ment of the bodies of the vertebrae ; at + +, a portion of the ligament is removed so as to expose the inter- vertebral plate between the Stli and 9th vertebrce, in which the diagonal fibres of the external laminaj of the intervertebral disc are represented. (The further description of this figure will be found at p. 141.) closely to the invertebral car- tilages. Upon the sides of the bodies there are some fibres which are thin and scattered, and reach from one bone to another. The posterior coiiimon ligament is situated within the spinal canal, and is at- tached to the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebras; it extends from the axis to the sacrum. At its upper extremity it is continuous with the apparatus ligamentosus. It is smooth, shining, and broader at the upper than at the lower part of the spine. Fig. 119.—The Bodies op three Lumbar Vertebrj^, seen from Fig. 119. behind, v/ith the Posterior Common Ligament. 3 The arches have been removed by cutting through the ]3edicles. The narrowing of the posterior common ligament opposite the . middle of each body, and its greater width and attachments opposite the intervertebral discs, are represented. In the neck it extends quite across the bodies of the vertebrae, but in the back and loins it is broader opposite the intervertebral cartilages than at the middle of the bodies, so that its margins present a series of points or dentations with intervening concave spaces. It adheres firmly to the fibro-cartilages and to the contiguous margins of the bodies of the vertebrae, but it is separated from the middle of the bodies by the transverse parts of the large venous plexus. Between the ligament and the prolongation of the dura mater which lines tlie canal, some loose connective tissue is interposed.