DORSAL MUSCLES OF THE TRUNK. 300 columns, of which the inner, or that next the spine, is comparatively slender ; the middle and outer columns are much thicker, and consist each of three divisions which have received separate names. The erector spinae takes origin inferiorly as a common mass, the outer part of which is muscular, while the inner and larger part is tendinous. The muscular portion arises from the posterior fifth of the crest of the ilium ; the tendinous portion arises from the back part of the ilium, the lower and back part of the sacrum, and the sacral and lumbar spines ; it is inseparably united below with the lumbar aponeu- rosis, and is prolonged upwards on the surface of the muscular part, concealing the multifidus spinas. The division of the larger part into the external and middle columns takes place below the level of the last rib. The three parts of the outer columns are— a. The ilio-costalis (Theile) or sacro-lumbalis, the main muscle of the outer column, is fleshy inferiorly, springing from that pait of the common origin which proceeds from the crest of the ilium ; it ends in a series of tendons wliich incline slightly outwards, and are inserted one into each of the six or seven lowest ribs at their angles. J). The musculns accessorins ad ilio-costalem (ad sacro-lTimTba= lem) is a continuation upwards of the preceding muscle. It arises by flat tendons from the upper margins of the lower six ribs, internal to the tendons of the ilio-costalis, and ends superiorly by continuing the series of those tendons to the angles of the upper ribs. c. The cervicalis ascendens consists of slips in serial continuation with those of the musculus accessorius, taking origin from four or five of the highest ribs, and inserted into the transverse processes of three cervical vertebrse, usually the fourth, fifth, and sixth. Its insertions are intimately connected with those of the transversalis cervicis. The middle column consists of d. The longissimns dorsi muscle. This muscle is both larger and longer than the ilio-costalis, its original fibres passing as high as the first dorsal vertebras. Internally it is closely connected on the surface with the spinalis dorsi, from the lower part 'of which it generally receives one or more tendinous slips. When those slips and the tendons of origin from the lumbar spines are cut through, the inner surface of the muscle can be brought into view. The longissimus dorsi presents two series of insertions. The inner row of insertions is a series of rounded tendons attached to the inferior tubercles of all the transverse processes of the dorsal, and the accessory processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The outer insertions form a series of thin fleshy processes which are attached in the dorsal region to the nine or ten low^est ribs, between their tubercles and angles, and in the lumbar region to the whole length of the transverse processes, and beyond these to the lumbar fascia connected with them. e. The transversalis cervicis muscle prolongs upwards the column of fibres of the longissimus dorsi. It arises from the internal tubercles of the transverse processes of the four or five highest dorsal vertebrae, and occasionally the last cervical, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the "transverse processes of five cervical vertebrEC from the second to the sixth inclusive. It always receives a slip of the original fibres of the longissimus dorsi. /. The tracnelo-mastoid muscle, which may be regarded as the