PULMOXAHY AETERIES AND VEINS. 315 Fig. 241,—GrENERAL View op tpie Heart and Blood-Vessels, froji before and FROM THE RIGHT SIDE IN A MaLE AdDLT. i A, Right auricle; B, left auricular appendix; C, riglit ventricle ; D, part of the left ventricle ; I, aortic arch, and descending aorta ; II, trunk of the pulmonary artery- dividing into its right and left branches, and connected to the aorta hy the cord of the ductus arteriosus ; III, vena cava superior ; IV, vena cava inferior. 1, innominate artery and right carotid ; 1', left carotid ; 2, right and left subclavian arteries ; 3, intercostal vessels ; 4, inferior diaphragmatic arteries; below 4, the coeliac axis and superior mesenteric artery ; 5, renal arteries ; 6, 6', the spermatic arteries ; below 6, the inferior mesenteric ; 7, 7', right a,nd left common iliac arteries ; 8, 8', external iliac arteries ; 9, left epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries ; 10, 10', internal iliac arteries; and between these two figures, the middle sacral artery ; 11, femoral arteries ; 2, profunda femoris artery of the left side. ci, right brachio-cephalic vein ; a', the left; b, b', right and left subclavian veins ; b'\ the cephalic vein of the right arm ; c, c\ internal jugular veins ; c", right facial vein joining the internal jugular ; d, external jugular veins formed by the posterior auricular and temporal; d', anterior jugular veins with the transverse joining the external jugular; e, azj'gos vein passing over the root of the right lung ; /, the hepatic veins ; g, origin of the renal veins ; to the sides are seen the kidney and the suprarenal bodies ; g', right, g'\ left ureter; k, right spermatic vein ; h', the left, joining the left renal vein ; i, i, common iliac veins ; i', i', external iliac veins ; h, femoral veins ; I, saphenous vein of the right side. For fuller information on the natural and abnormal distribution of the blood-vessels, the reader may consult the works of Haller and Tiedemann, and more especially the " Anatomy of the Arteries," by Richard Quain, 1844; the third volume of Henle's " Systematic Work," 1868, in which a connected view of the varieties is given; and other special treatises. The sanguiferous system consists of two great divisions, compre- hended in the lesser or pulmonic and the greater or systemic circula- tions. To the former belong the pulmonary arteries and veins, which will be first described. pulmo:taey aeteeies and veins. PULMONABY ABTEBY. The main pnlmouary artery is a short wide vessel, which carries the dark blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises from the infundibulum or conus arteriosus of the right ventricle, and passes for the space of nearly two inches upwards, and at the same time backwards and to the left side, to reach the concavity of the aortic arch, where it divides into two branches—the right and left pulmonary arte- ries. The mode of attachment of the main pulmonary artery to the base of the ventricle has already been fully noticed. At each side of its commencement is the corresponding coronary artery springing from the aorta, and close to its side are the two auricular appendages. It is at first in front of the aorta and conceals the origin of that vessel; but higher up, where it lies in front of the left auricle, it passes to the left side of the ascending aorta, and is finally placed beneath the middle part of the arch. The pulmonary artery and tlie aorta are united, to- gether by connective tissue and by the serous layer of the pericardium, which for the space of about two inches forms a single tube around both vessels. Bather to the left of its point of bifurcation it is con- nected to the under side of the aortic arch by means of a short fii)rous cord, which passes obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the left. This