THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 394 On the rig-ht side, though deeply placed and closely connected with important parts, the first division of the subclavian artery may be tied without extreme difficulty. But inasmuch as the length of the vessel, between its three large branches on the one hand, and the common carotid on the other, ordinarily measures no more than an inch, and often less ; the success of the operation is somewhat doubtful. In order to place a ligature on the portion of the right subclavian artery here referred to, it is necessary to divide by horizontal incisions the three muscles which cover it, together with the layers of fascia between and beneath them. While the muscles are being divided, a branch of the suprascapular artery will probably require to be secured. In the farther steps of the operation, the exact relations of the artery to the internal jugular vein, the vagus nerve, and the pleura, are to be well kept in view. It is to be remembered also that the right subclavian artery is occasionally somewhat more deeply placed than usual in the first part of its course ; as in certain cases of variation, when it springs from the back part of the aortic arch, or. more frequently, when it merel}^ separates from the innominate behind the carotid. AXILLAKY ARTERY. The axillary artery is that part of the artery of the upper limb which extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower margin of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major muscles. In this course it passes tlu'ongh the axilla, and its direction varies with the position of the limb, being curved downwards, or upwards, or being straight, according as the arm hangs by the side, or is elevated, or extended. In front, tlie axillary artery is covered by the pectoralis major muscle, behind which it is crossed by the pectoralis minor. It may be con- veniently divided into three parts: the first part lying internal to the pectoralis minor muscle, the second part being behind that muscle, and the third part beyond it. In the first part of its course the vessel has the first intercostal space, and the first slip of the serratus magnus muscle with the posterior thoracic nerve on its inner side, and is covered by the costo-coracoid membrane, which, attached above to the clavicle, is continued below into a common sheath investing the artery and vein, which is completed behind by a prolongation of the deep cervical fiiscia. In this part of its course the artery is placed with the trunks of the brachial plexus above and behind it, and the axillary vein in front of it and somewhat nearer the thorax: it is also crossed by the cephalic and acromio- thoracic v^eins as they dip down to terminate in the axillary vein. In the second p)cirt of its course, behind the pectoralis minor, the axillary artery is completely surrounded by the trunks of the brachial plexus, and is crossed in front by one of the roots of the median nerve : the vein is on the thoracic side of the artery, separated from it by nerves. In the third part of its course, beyond the pectoralis minor, the axillary artery rests on the subscapular muscle and the insertions of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, while to the outer side is the coraco- brachialis muscle. The axillary vein is still on the thoracic side, but sometimes the venae comites, by whose union it is formed, are con- tinued up to this level, one on each side of the artery. The main branches resulting from the division of the brachial plexus of nerves are disposed behind and on each side of this part of the artery, as