MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 244 covering the head, the spine and the posterior margin of the tibia, the head of the fibula, and the outer and inner malleoli; and it invests the leg completely except at the inner surface of the tibia. From its deep surface intermuscular septa are prolonged inwards between the muscles on the anterior and outer aspects of the leg, and afPord attach- ment along with the upper part of the fascia itself to some of their fibres. Beneath the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles on the back of the leg, a deep layer of fascia is stretched from side to side, binding down the deeper muscles firmly in the hollow between the tibia and fibula. Where covered by the soleus and gastrocnemius, this fascia is weak, but it becomes stronger as it escapes from under cover of those muscles and approaches the malleoli. Below the ankle the deep fascia of the leg becomes continuous with that of the foot. In front, and on the sides of that joint, it is strengthened by broad bands of fibres, which are called annular liga- ments. These serve as retinacula, confining the tendons in their natural positions. The anterior annular ligament includes two structures, one placed on the lower part of the leg, the other opposite the bend of the ankle. The vjjjm- tancl, ligamenium transversum cruris (Henle), of considerable breadth, stretches from the lower end of the fibula to the lower end of the tibia, and binds down the vertical portion of the extensor tendons as they turn forwards to the foot: the sheath for the tendon of the tibialis anticus is distinct fr'om the others. The lower hand, ligamentiaro cruciatum cruris (Henle), presents superficially the appearance of the letter placed thus upon its side, being single in its outer half, and usually divided into two branches internally. The outer portion consists of a strong loop of fibres arising from the fore part of the os calcis, com- pletely surrounding the peroneus tertius and extensor longus digitorum muscles, and inserted into the fore part of the os calcis, deep in the hollow between that bone and the astragalus. Less regular is the arrangement of the bands which pass from the extremity of the loop to the inside of the foot: the strongest and most constant band passes superficial to the extensor pollicis and on the deep surface of the tibialis anticus muscle, only a few fibres passing superficial to the latter ; while another band, lower down, after crossing both those tendons, is inserted into the lower side of the foot in front of the ankle. The internal annular ligament crosses the space between the inner ankle and the heel through which the tendons of the flexor muscles run. Its upper border, continuous with the fascia of the leg (more especially the intermuscular layer), is very imperfectly defined ; and its lower border, giving origin to many fibres of the abductor pollicis, is but little more distinct. Its anterior extremity is attached to the inner malleolus, and its posterior is inserted into the inner surface of the calcaneum ; but between these two points it arches over several osseous grooves so as to form canals for the passage of tendons. The first canal (next to the malleolus) contains the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and the second that of the flexor longus digitorum, each being provided with a synovial lining. Then follows a wider space for the passage of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. Lastly, a fourth canal upon the astragalus, lined like the first two by a synovial bursa, transmits the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The external annular ligament extends from the point of the