66 BONES OF THE HEAD. The external ivall is the most extensive. The bones which take part in its formation are the nasal, superior maxillary, ethmoid, inferior spongy, and palate bones, and the internal pterygoid plates. The superior and inferior turbinated parts of the ethmoid bone (ethmo- turbinal bone), and the inferior spongy bone (maxillo-turbiual), project- Fig. 55,—Vertical Antero- posterior Section of a Part OF THE Cranium, showing the Outer Wall of the Left Nasal Fossa, &c. (A. T.) ^ 1, nasal bone ; 2, nasal pro- cess of the superior maxillary bone ; 3, ascending plate of the palate bone ; 4, superior turbi- nated bone of the ethmoid— below it the supeiior meatus, behind it the oj^ening into the left sphenoidal sinus ; 5, the middle turbinated bone—below it the middle meatus, into which opens the maxillary sinus ; superi- orly and anteriorly, is the common opening of the infundibulum and anterior ethmoidal cells ; behind it, and above 3, the spheno- palatine foramen ; 6, the inferior turbinated bone—below it the inferior meatus x x ; below these marks the section of the palatine plates of the left palate and superior maxillary bones ; 7, the left frontal sinus ; 8, the left sphenoidal sinus ; 9, the left optic foramen in the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and anterior clinoid process ; 10, the ridge of the dorsum sellas divided ; and between 9 and 10, the sella turcica ; 11, the posterior surface of the petrous bone, close to the internal auditory meatus ; 12, the basilar process of the occipital bone, close to the foramen lacerum posterius ; 13, below the anterior condyloid foramen ; 14, left styloid process ; 15, external, and 16, internal jDterygoid processes ; 17, posterior j^alatine canal and grooves. ing inwards, overhang the three divisions of the nasal foss^, called meatus. The superior meatus, very short, is placed between the superior and inferior turbinated parts of the ethmoid bone ; into it open anteriorly the posterior ethmoidal cells, and posteriorly the spheno-palatine fora- men and sphenoidal sinus. The middle meatus, the space between the inferior turbinated part of the ethmoid and the inferior spongy bone, communicates at its fore part by means of the infundibulum, with the anterior ethmoidal cells, and with the frontal sinus, while in its middle is the opening of the maxillary sinus. The inferior meatus, longer than the others, lies between the inferior spongy bone and the floor of the nasal cavity ; in its fore part is the orifice of the nasal duct and the anterior palatine canal. The air sinuses are hollows within the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and maxillary bones, which communicate with the nasal cavities by narrow orifices. With thr exception of the maxillary sinus these cavities are absent in early youth. The maxillary sinus begins to be formed about the fourth month of foetal life ; the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal first appear during childhood, but remain of small size up to the time of puberty, when they undergo a great enlargement. In advanced life they all increase in size by absorption of the cancellated