88 BONES OF THE UPPEE LIMB. quadrilateral, presents inferiorly a large surface, which articulates with the carpus, and internally a small one, which articulates with the ulna. The carpal articular surface, slightly concave, is divided by a line into a quadrilateral internal part, which articulates with the semilunar bone, and a triangular external part, which articulates with the scaphoid bone. The ulnar articular surface is placed at a right angle with the inferior surface ; it is concave from before backwards, forming a semi- hmar cavity^ in which the rounded lower end of the ulna plays. At the external angle of the inferior surface a part projecting downwards, called the styloid process, gives attachment to the external lateral liga- ment of the wrist joint, while the anterior and posterior margins are Fig. 73. Yn 10 II- Fig. 73.—Right Radius from before. Fig. 74.—Right Radius from behind. (A. T.) i 1, head, showing the hollow above for the humerus, and the vertical surface surrounding it for the ulnar articulation ; 2, the neck ; 3, the tubercle ; 4, is opposite to the oblique line : 5, interosseous ridge ; the shaded part near 5 marks tl^ slight hollow in which the flexor longus pollicis muscle lies ; 6, car- pal articular surface ; 7, styloid jDrocess ; 8, the articular hollow for the lower end of the ulna ; 9, mark of the attachment of the pronator radii teres ; 10 and 11, oblique impressions of the extensor longus digitorum and extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; between 7 and 8, dorsal grooves for the tendons of the extensor muscles. likewise rough and prominent for other ligaments. On its external posterior as- pects the inferior extremity of the radius is marked by grooves, which transmit the extensor tendons. Thus, on the external border, is a flat groove directed down- .wards and forwards, which lodges the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; and on the posterior surface are three grooves, the middle one of which, oblique and nar- row, and with prominent borders, lodges the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; wdiile of the two others, which are broad and shallow, the external, subdivided Irj ' a slight mark, gives passage to the ex- tensores carpi radiales longior and bre- vier, and the internal transmits the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis. THE ULNA. The ulna is the internal of the two bones of the forearm. It is longer than the radius by the extent of the olecranon process. It is inclined downwards and outwards from the humerus in such a direc- tion that a straight line passing from the great tuberosity of the humerus downwards through the capitellum would touch the lower end of the ulna. The ulna articulates with the humerus and the radius : in the