551 BRANCHES OF THE FACIAL NERVE. the digastric branch to the muscle from which it is named. This nerve is connected with the plexus of the sympathetic on the external carotid artery. Temporo-facial division.—The temporo-facial, the larger of the two primary divisions into which the main trunk of the facial nerve separates, is directed forwards through the parotid gland. Its ramifi- cations and connections with other nerves form a network over the side of the face, extending as high as the temple and as low as the mouth. Its branches are arranged in temporal, malar, and infraorbital sets. ((7.) The temporal hranclics ascend over the zygoma to the side of the head. Some end in the anterior muscle of the auricle and the integument of the temi^le, and communicate with the temporal branch of the upper maxillary nerve near the ear, as well as Avith (according to Meckel) the auriculo-temporal branch of the lower maxillary nerve. Other branches enter the occipito-frontalis, the orbicu- laris palpebrarum, and the corrugator supercilii muscles, and join offsets from the supraorbital branch of the ophthalmic nerve. {h) The malar Iranahes cross the malar bone to reach the outer side of the orbit, and supply the orbicular muscle. Some filaments are distributed to both the upper and lower eyelids : those in the upper eyelid join filaments from the lachrymal and supraorbital nerves ; and those in the lower lid are connected with filaments from the upper maxillary nerve. Filaments from this part of the facial nerve communicate with the malar branch of the upper maxillary nerve. (c) The infraorhifal branches, of larger size than the other branches, are almost horizontal in direction, and are distributed between the orbit and mouth. They supply the buccinator and orbicularis oris muscles, the elevators of the upper lip and angle of the mouth, and likewise the integument. Numerous communica- tions take place with the fifth nerve. Beneath the elevator of the upper lip these nerves are united in a plexus with the branches of the upper maxillary nerve ; on the side of the nose they communicate with the nasal, and at the inner angle of the orbit with the infratrochlear nerve. The lower branches of this set are connected v»^ith those of the cervico-f acial division. Near its commencement tlie temporo-facial division of the facial is connected with the auriculo-temporal nerve of the fifth, by one or two branches of consi- derable size which turn round the external carotid artery; and it gives some filaments to the tragus of the outer ear. Cervico-facial division.—This division of the facial nerve is directed obliquely through the parotid gland towards the angle of the lower jaw, and gives branches to the face, below those of the preceding division, and to the upper part of the neck. The branches are named buccal, supramaxillary, and inframaxillary. In the gland, this division of the facial nerve is joined by filaments of the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, and offsets from it penetrate the substance of the gland. (a) The Imccal hrancJies are directed across the masseter muscle to the angle of the mouth ; supplying the muscles, they communicate with the temporo-facial division, and on the buccinator muscle join with filaments of the buccal branch of the lower maxillary nerve. The siipramaxlllarii Z'?Y7?i<?7/, sometimes double, gives an offset over the side of the maxilla to the angle of the mouth, and is then directed inwards, beneath the depressor of the angle of the mouth, to the muscles and integument between the lip and chin ; it joins with the labial branch of the lower dental nerve, ((?) inf ramaxillary hrancJies (r. subcutanei colli) perforate the deep cervical fascia, and, placed beneath the platysma muscle, form arches across the side of the neck as low as the liyoid bone. Some branches join the superficial cervical nerve beneath the platysma, others enter that muscle, and a few perforate it to end in the integument.