AETERIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 468 vessels, are sometimes enlarged, and furnish the interosseous arteries on the upper surface of the foot; the metatarsal branch of the dorsal artery, from which the interosseous arteries are usually derived, being in Fig. 300. that case very small. Fig. 300. —Anterior view op the Arteries op the Leg and Dorsum op the! Foot (from Tiedemann), ^ The tibialis anticiis muscle is drawn towards the inner side so as to bring the anterior tibial artery into view ; the extensor proprius pollicis, the long common extensor of the toes, and the peroneus tei'tius muscles in their lower part, and the whole of the extensor communis l)revis, have been removed. 1, external superior articular branch of the popliteal artery, ramif3'ing on the parts surrounding the knee, and anastomosing with the other articular branches and with 2, the recurrent branch of the aifterior tibial artery ; 3, 3, anterior tibial, giving off muscular branches on each side ; 4, dorsal artery of the foot; 5, external anterior malleohxr artery coming off from the anterior tibial, and anastomosing with the anterior pei'oneal ai'tery which is seen descending upon the lower part of the fibula : the internal malleolar is represented proceeding from the other side of the anterior tibial artery ; 6, the tarsal branch of the dorsal artery, represented in this instance as larger than usual and furnishing some of the branches of the next artery ; 7, the metatarsal branch, giving off the dorsal inter- osseous arteries : (in the first interosseous space the dorsal artery of the foot is seen to give off the anasto- mosing branch which unites with the deep plantar arch ;) between 8, and 8, the collateral branches of the dorsal digital arteries. ANTEEIOK TIBIAL ARTERY. The anterior tibial artery, placed along the fore part of the leg, is at first deeply seated, but gradually approaches nearer to the surface as it descends. It extends from the division of the popliteal artery to the bend of the ankle ; whence it is afterwards prolonged to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones, under the name of dorsal artery of the foot. The anterior tibial artery is at first directed forwards to reach the anterior surface of the interosseous ligament, passing through the divided upper end of the tibialis posticus, and through the interval left unoccupied by the interosseous ligament. It then extends ob- liquely downwards to the middle of the ankle- joint, in a direction which may be nearly indicated by a line drawn from the inner side of the head of the fibula to midway between the two malleoli. Lying with the tibialis anticus on its inner side, and having the extensor communis digitorum and, lower down, the extensor propius pollicis on its outer side, the vessel is