SUBSCAPULAH AETERY. 397 subclavian artery outside the scalenus anticus muscle ; 3, first part of tlie axillary artery giving rise to the acromio-thoracic, short thoracic, &c. ; 4, third part of the axillary artery giving rise to the subscapular, circumflex, &c. ; 5, commencement of the brachial artery ; 6, superficial transverse cervical artery ; 6', placed on the scalenus anticus muscle, marks the ascending cervical branch ; 7, posterior scapular artery arising from the subclavian artery behind the scalenus anticus muscle ; 8, acromial branches of the acromio-thoracic ; 9, pectoral branches of the same ; 10, long thoracic artery outside the pectoralis minor muscle ; + , posterior circumflex branch of the axillary artery (the anterior circumflex is seen rising from the opposite side of the same part of the axillary trunk ; 11, sub- scapular artery passing between the subscapularis and teres minor muscles to proceed to the lower angle and dorsum of the scapula ; 12, thoracic descending brancli of the subscapular artery. For the explanation of the references 13 to 27, to the carotid artery and its branches see p. 368. the inferior angle of the scapula, accompanied by the long subscapular nerve; and it terminates in branches to the subscapularis, serratus magnus, teres major, and latissimus dorsi muscles. It soon becomes considerably diminished in size, owing to its giving off a large branch to the dorsum of the scapula. Its final ramifications anastomose with one another and with the branches of the posterior scapular artery. Fig. 260.—View of THE AkTERIES which ramify and anastomose on the Ventral Surface OF THE . Scapula, AND OF THE AN- TERIOR Circum- flex Artery (from E. Quain). h a, coracoid process; h, tendon of the long liead of the biceps muscle ; c, the front of the capsular liga- ment of the shoulder- joint ; d, tendon of the latissimus dorsi muscle ; e, teres major; 1, supra- scapular artery de- scending to the supra- scapular notch, over the ligament of which the larger part of the artery passes into the supraspinous fossa ; A, A', the axillary and brachial artery; 1', its subscapular branch x)assing through the notch and ramifying in the subscapular fossa ; 2, 2, posterior scapular artery descending parallel to the base of the scapula ; 2', its subscapular branches ; 3, main stem of the subscapular artery at its origin from the axillary and continuation towards the dorsum of the scapula ; 3', the branch to the ventral surface of the scapula proceeding to anastomose with the sub- scapular branches of the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries ; 4, descending or thoracic branch of the subscapular artery ; 5, anterior circumflex artery ; 6, posterior circumflex passing back through the quadrilateral muscular space. The dorsal branch (dorsalis scapulse) turns back from the subscapular artery, about an inch and a half from its origin, and is sometimes larger iihan the continuation of the vessel. Descending along the lower border of the scapula, it passes through the interval bounded internally by the subscapularis and teres minor, externally by the latissimus dorsi and teres major, and superiorly by the long head of the triceps muscle ; and, Fig. 260.