BRANCHES OF RADIAL ARTERY IN THE HAND. 417 (5) The first dorsal interosseous or metacarpal branch arises be- neath the extensor tendons of the thumb, frequently in common with the posterior carpal branch, passes to the interval between the second and third met^icarpal bones, communicates with the corresponding perfo- rating branch of the deep palmar arch, and, descending on the second dorsal interosseous muscle, anastomoses with the palmar digital branch at its division between the fingers. (c) The dorsal arteries of the fkmrnb, two small branches, arising separately or together opposite the head of the metacarpal bone, run upon the dorsal aspect of the bones of the thumb, one at the radial, the other at the ulnar border. (d) The dorsal artery of the inde^s finger, a very small branch, arises lower down than the preceding, and sending branches to the ab- ductor indicis, runs along the radial side of the back of the index finger. c. The branches derived from the radial after it has entered the hand, are, the great artery of the thumb, the radial branch of the index finger, and the large terminal branch, which forms the deep palmar arch. (a) The large artery of tlie tkiisiilj (arteria princeps pollicis,—Hal- ier) arises from the radial, where it is about to turn inwards across the palm of the hand. It descends in front of the abductor indicis, between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the muscles covering it, to the space between the lower ends of the flexor brevis pollicis. At that point, and beneath the tendon of the long flexor, it divides into two collaieral Iranches, which course along the borders of the phalanges, on their palmar aspect, and unite in front of the last phalanx, to form an arch similar in arrangement to that on the other fingers. (fi) The radial "brancli for the index £iiger generally arises close to the large artery of the thumb ; but thougli constantly found, it varies in size and in its mode of origin. It descends between the abductor indicis and adductor pollicis muscles, and continues along the radial border of the index finger, forming the radial collateral branch of that finger, and anastomosing in the usual manner on the last phalanx with the ulnar collateral branch derived from the superficial palmar arch. YsixiQtieB,—Origin.—In the observations of Richard Quain, the radial artery- was found to arise higher up than usual in nearly one case in eight. Course.—The radial artery more rarely deviates from its usual position along the fore-arm than the ulnar. It has been found lying upon the fibrous expansion from the tendon of the biceps, and over the fascia of the fore-arm, instead of beneath those structures. This vessel has been also observed on the surface of the long supinator, instead of on the inner border of that muscle. In turning round the wrist, it has been seen passing over the extensor tendons of the thumb, instead of within them. As was previously stated (p, 404), the vasa aberrantia occasionally derived from the brachial or axillary arteries most commonly end by joining the radial, or one of its branches. Branches.—The radial recurrent is sometimes very large, or it may be replaced by several separate branches. When the radial itself arises high up, the recur- rent artery usually comes from the residual brachial trunk, or sometimes from the ulnar artery, or more rarely from the interosseous. "\Yhen given from the brachial trunk, the radial recurrent has been found crossing beneath the tendon of the biceps. The siqicrjicial volar branch is small in a considerable number of cases, and is lost in the short muscles of the thumb, without forming any connection with the palmar arch, or with any of the digital arteries. In some instances in which it is VOL. I. EE