216 MUSCLES OF THE UPPER LIMB. commonest is the division of the tendon or lower part of the muscle into two or sometimes three slips, which are inserted either together or at some distance from each other. The supinator longus may also be connected to some of the neighbom-ing muscles, especially at its origin. The extensor carpi radialis longior muscle arises from the lower part of the external condylar ridge of the humerus, and from the inter- muscular septum. Its muscular belly ends at the meeting of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm in a flat tendon, which passes, con- jointly with that of the following muscle, over the lower end of the radius in the outermost of the two broad grooves on the posterior surface of that bone, and is inserted into the base of the second metacarpal bone. A small bursa lies beneath the tendon at its insertion. The extensor carpi radialis brevior muscle arises from the outer condylar eminence of the humerus by a tendon common to it and the other extensor muscles, from the intervening fibrous septa, from a superficial tendinous expansion, and from the external lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. Its muscular belly ends in a flat tendon, which descends with that of the extensor longior, passes through the same groove of the radius vv'ith it, and is inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is placed between this muscle and the supinator brevis, and a smaller one between the tendon and the metacarpal bone. Relations.—Of the two foregoing muscles the extensor longus is the most superficial. The extensor brevis covers the supinator brevis and the insertion of the j)ronator radii teres. The tendons of these muscles and that of the supinator longus are crossed obliquely by the extensors of the metacarpal bone and first phalanx of the thumb. Varieties.—The two foregoing muscles are subject to a similar variation in being, one or other of them, split up into two or sometimes three tendons pre- vious to insertion ; the tendons of either muscle being inserted into both the second and third metacarpal bones : occasionally a slip passes also to the fourth metacarpal bone. An additional muscle, called extensor carpi radialis accessorins by Mr. Wood, is of frequent occurrence, rising from the radius below the extensor carpi radialis longior, and running through the same groove behind the radius at the wrist, it is inserted most frequently into the metacari^al bone of the thumb, but sometimes into the abductor j)ollicis, first dorsal interosseous muscle or other part. The extensor ccnimnnis digitornm muscle, placed between the extensor carpi radialis brcvior and the extensor minimi digiti, arises from the outer condylar eminence by a tendon common to it and the other superficial extensor muscles, also from the fascia of the forearm, and the septa between it and the adjoining muscles. Somewhat below the middle of the forearm the muscular part ends in four tendons, which pass between the posterior annular ligament of the wrist and the innermost broad groove on the back of the radius, and diverge as they proceed along the carpus and metacarpus to reach the fingers. Here each is increased by tendinous fibres derived from the lumbricales and interosseous muscles forming a fibrous expansion, which covers the back of the first and second digi'tal phalanges, and terminates upon the third phalanx. It is attached to the second and third phalanges in the following manner. Opposite the first bone the tendon divides into three-fasci- culi ; the central one is much thinner than the others, and is inserted into the base of the second phalanx ; the two lateral- parts, continuing