MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE, 285 peculiar to itself—tlie intrinsic muscles, which will be noticed along with the tongue ; and partly of muscles arising from neighbouring parts—the extrinsic muscles about to be described. The genio-glossus or genio-hyo-glossiis muscle is fan-shaped, and is placed vertically in contact with its fellow in the mesial plane. It arises by a short tendon from the superior genial tubercle behind the symphysis of the jaw : from this its fibres diverge, to be inserted, the inferior, for the most part, into the body of the hyoid bone, and a few into the side of the pharynx; the superior into the tip of the tongue ; and the intermediate fibres into the whole length of the tongue spreading outwards in its substance. Relations.—The external surface is in contact witli tlie lingiialis inferior, hyo- glossus and stylo-glossus muscles, the sublingual gland, the ranine vessels, and the nerves of the tongue, and its lower border with the genio-hyoid muscle. Varieties.—Occasional slips of this muscle have been noticed passing to the epiglottis (Luschka), or to the pharynx (Winslow), or to the stylo-hyoid ligament (Sommerring). It has also been found united anteriorly with the genio-hyoid muscle. The liyo-glossns is a flat quadrate muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu, from the lateral part of the body, and from Fig. 211.—Deep Muscles op the Fig. 211. Cheek, Pharynx, &c. (modified from Cloquet). (A. T.) ^ The pharynx has been distended by stuffing. «, external pterygoid jDrocess ; 6, styloid process, with short portions of the three styloid muscles attached ; c, body of the lower jaw, which has been divided at the place where the pterygo- maxillary ligament + is attached ; d, body of the hyoid bone ; e, thjToid cartilage ; /, cricoid carti- lage ; <7, trachea ; 1, outer part of the orbicularis oris muscle ; 2, buc- cinator ; 3, superior constrictor of the pharynx ; 4, middle constrictor; 5, inferior constrictor; 6, oeso- phagus ; 7, points by three lines to the lower parts of the stylo-glossus, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-pharyngeus muscles respectively ; S, mylo- hyoid ; 9, hyo-glossus, of which a small part is removed posteriorly to show the attachment of the middle constrictor ; 10, thyro-liyoid. the small cornu of the hyoid bone ; it passes upwards to be inserted into the side of the tongue, blending with the stylo-glossus and palato- glossus muscles. TU'lafions.—The hyo-glossus is concealed by the digastric, stylo-hyoid and mylo-hyoid muscles, except at its posterior inferior angle : the deep part of the submaxillary gland rests on its surface, and it is crossed from below upwards by