TAEIETIES OF THE BRACHIAL ARTERY. 403 aich, from which the pronator teres in those cases arises, and which descends to the inner condyle from the occasional prominence called the supra-condylar Fig. 26ii.—Dissection OF THE Right Arm, show- ing AN EXAMPLE OF HIGH SEPAKATION OF THE Radial Artery from the Brachial, and an ENLARGED MeDIAN ArTERY IN THE FORE- ARM (from Tiedemann). | Fig. 264. 1, on the tendon of tlie latissimus dorsi, points to the upper part of the brachial artery ; 2, the brachial artery after giving off the radial; 3, the radial rising in the upper third of the arm and descending in its usual situation in the fore-arm ; 3', its superficial volar branch ; 4, the ulnar artery in its usual course, forming at 5, the superficial palmar arch, from which three of the palmar digital arteries and the princeps pollicis take origin ; the radial supplying the branches to the index finger and one side of the middle finger ; 6, the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery ; 7, muscular branches ; 8, anas- tomotic ; 9, recurrent radial ; 10, anterior inter- osseous giving an unusually large median branch which descends over the wrist to unite with the superficial palmar arch. process. Sometimes this disposition occurs •without the development of any bony promi- nence. As an extremely rare condition, the artery has been found divided into two vessels near its commencement, the artery being single above and below. In a very few cases the three arteries of the fore arm, radial, ulnar, and interosseous, have arisen together from the end of the brachial trunk, at the usual distance below the elbow. High division.—The most frequent change from the ordinary an-angement of the brachial artery is connected with its division into terminal branches. Out of 481 examples recorded by Richard Quain from observations made, some on the right and some on the left side of the body, the vessel was found in 38G to divide at its usual position, a little below the elbow-joint. In one case only (and that complicated by another peculiarity, viz., the existence of a ras aherrans proceeding from the axillary to the radial), was the place of division lower than usual, being between two and tliree inches lower than the elbow-joint. In 64 cases the brachial artery divided above the usual point, at various heights upwards to the lower border of the axilla. The branch prematurely separated from the rest of the trunk in an early division, is, in the pro- portion of nearly three cases out of four. i> D 2