322 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. of some of the lower animals ; they are rather vestiges of the septa between the original vertebral myotomes. They sometimes extend outwards from the rectus, and penetrate partially into the internal oblique. The pyramidalis is a small muscle resting on the lower part of the rectus. It arises from the front of the pubis and the ligaments of the symphysis, and becoming narrow as it ascends over the lower third of the interval between the umbilicus and pubis, is inserted into the linea alba. Relations.—The pyramidalis is covered in front by the aponeurosis of the other muscles, and rests posteriorly on the rectus, the size of the lower part of which is augmented when the pyramidalis is wanting. T'ii7-ietics.—This muscle is often absent on one or both sides : in some instances it has been found to be double. It occasionally exceeds the length above stated. The Imea alia is a white fibrous structure, extended perpendicularly downwards in the middle line from the ensiform cartilage to the pubis. This tendinous band is formed by the union of the aponeuroses of the two oblique and the transverse muscles, the tendinous fibres being con- tinued in a decussating manner from one side to the other. Some longitudinal fibres are distinguishable towards its lower end. It is broader superiorly than inferiorly, and a little below the middle is widened out into a circular flat space, in the centre of which is situated the cicatrix of the umtilkiis. The Une(E semilimares are the two curved linear spaces on the surface of the abdomen, placed externally to the outer margins of the recti muscles. They are produced by the union of the aponeurotic tendons of the oblique and transversalis muscles, and they correspond on their inner side to the outer margin of the sheath of the rectus. The qnadratus lumbomm is an irregularly quadrilateral muscle, slightly broader below than above, placed between the last rib and the crest of the ilium, close to the vertebral column. It is divisible into two parts. One of these, arising by fleshy and tendinous fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and from the iliac crest for several inches near the place where that ligament is attached, is inserted into the inferior border of the last rib for about half its length, and by four tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the four superior lumbar vertebrse. Another series of fibres, arising by two or three tendinous slips from as many of the inferior transverse processes at their upper margins, passes in front of those inserted into the same processes, and joins with the part of the muscle attached to the rib. Belations.—This muscle is placed between the middle and deepest layer of the lumbar aponeurosis, and its inner part is covered in front by the psoas muscle. Varieties.—The number of the points of insertion of this muscle to the ver- tebras, and the extent of its connection with the last rib, vary in different instances. It is sometimes attached to the body or transverse process of the last dorsal vertebra. Actions.—The abdominal muscles not only form a great part of the wall to enclose and support the abdominal viscera, but by their contractions are capable of acting successively on those viscera, on the thorax, and on the pelvis. When the pelvis and thorax are fixed, the abdominal muscles constrict the cavity and compress the viscera, particularly if the diaphragm be fixed or be made to descend at the same time, as occurs in vomiting and in the expulsion of the foetus, the fseces, and the urine.