ABDOMINAL AXD PERINEAL FASCIiE. 325 Tessels lie in front of this part of the iliac fascia. To the outer side of those vessels, the fascia turns forwards to be connected with Poupart's ligament and the fascia transversalis, as already described ; to the inner side of the femoral vein it is attached to the ilio-pectineal line, along with the fascia lata ; and between these tw^o points, namely, behind the femoral vessels, it continues downwards over the margin of the pelvis, forming the back part of the sheath of those vessels. The psoas parvus is closely, connected with the iliac fascia, by means of an expansion of its tendon. At the back part of the abdomen there is also a thin but strong fascia covering the quadratus lumborum muscle and forming the anterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis. It is attached at the outer border of the quadratus to the middle layer of the aponeurosis, and at its inner border to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. Superiorly it forms two strong bands, the ligamenta arcuata of the diaphragm already described, and inferiorly it is attached to the crest of the ilium. The middle layer of the lumbar aponeurosis consists of strong fibrous bundles which are attached to the posterior layer at the outer margin of the erector spinge. It intervenes between that muscle and the quadratus, and is attached internally by three or four slips to the tips of the lumbar transverse processes. It gives origin at its outer part to the middle fibres of the transversalis abdominis muscle. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OP THE PERINEUM AND PELVIS. Fascia op the Perin^eum—Superficial Fascia.—In the posterior half of the perinaeum the subcutaneous fat is continued deeply into the ischio-rectal fossa, the pyramidal space intervening between the obtu- rator fascia and the levator ani muscle. In the anterior half of the perinseum, beneath the subcutaneous fat, is placed a special layer of fascia, continuous with the dartos, the iiroim su^Jerficial jjeriiieal fascia, sometimes called fascia of Colics. This fascia is bound down on e^ch side to the margin of the pubic arch as far back as the ischial tuber- osity ; posteriorly, along a line from the ischial tuberosity to the central point of the perinasum, it turns round the posterior margin of the transversus perinsei muscle to join the subpubic fascia, to be presently described. From its deep surface likewise, an incomplete septum in the middle line dips down to the urethra and passes forwards into the scrotum. It thus happens that air blown in beneath the proper perineal fascia on one side passes forwards and distends the scrotum to a certain extent on that side ; it may then penetrate to the other also, and if injected with sufficient force may reach the front of the abdomen, and travel upwards beneath the superficial fascia ; but it neither passes backwards to the posterior half of the perinajum nor down upon the thighs. The same course is followed by urine or matter extravasated beneath the proper perineal fascia. The deep perineal or subpubic fascia is stretched across the pubic arch on the deep surface of the crura of the penis and the bulb of the urethra. It consists of two distinct layers of strong fibrous membrane, separated by intervening structures. The anterior layer, or triangular ligament of the iiretfira, attached to the inferior margin of the