107 THE FEMUE. pelvis is more nearly circular, the sacral promontory projecting less into it ; the sacrum is flatter and broader ; the depth of the symphysis pubis is less, the pubic arch is much wider, and the space between the tuberosities of the ischia greater. The average dimensions of the pelvis, as measured in a number of full-sized males and females, may be stated as follow, in inches :— Male. Female. Distance betv/een the widest part of the crests of the ilia 10 to 11 1( h to 11 Distance between the anterior superior spines of the ilia c i to 10 10 — 10^ Distance between the front of sym- physis pubis and the sacral spines 6 1 7 Gh — Teue Pelvis. Erim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Transverse diameter 4i l'>k 5 Oblique diameter . . . . 4 ih •4 5| Antero-j^osterior diameter . 4 H ok THE yEMUR. The femur or thigh bone, °the largest bone of the skeleton, is situated between the os innominatum and the tibia. In the erect position of the body it inclines inwards and slightly backwards as it descends, so as to approach inferiorly its fellow of the opposite side, and to have its upper end a little in advance of the lower. It is divisible into a superior extremitj^ including the head and neck and two eminences called trochanters, the shaft, and an inferior extremity expanded into an external and an internal condyle. At the suppvior extremittj of the bone, the Vifclc^ surmounted by the head, extends inwards, upwards, and slightly forwards, being set upon tho shaft at an angle of about 125° or 130°. The neck has a con- stricted appearance, and its diameter from before backwards is less than in the vertical direction, in which last greater strength is required to sustain the weight of the body. It is shorter superiorly than inferiorly, and the anterior surface is shorter than the posterior. The head forms more than half a sphere, and is covered with cartilage in the fresh state. Behind and below its central point is a small depres- sion, which gives attachment to the round ligament of the hip joint. The trochanter major is a thick truncated process prolonged upwards in a line with the external surface of the shaft. In Iront it is marked by the insertion of the gluteus minimus ; externally an oblique line directed downwards and forwards indicates the inferior border of the insertion of the gluteus medius muscle, and lower down a horizontal line, continued up^vards in front of the trochanter, marks the upper limit of the vastus externus. Internally at its base, and rather behind the neck, is the trocJianieric or d'ajital fossa, which gives attachment to the obturator and gemelli muscles. The posterior border of the great trochanter is prominent, and continue! into a smooth elevation, the