THE MUSCLES IJsT GEXEEAL. 183 Section IIL—MYOLOGY, THE MUSCLES IN GENERAL. Uj^tder this section will be brought the description of the Voluntary Muscles, and along with it that of the Fasciae and AjDoneuroses by which they are invested. The voluntary muscles are for the most part placed in close relation with the Endo-skeleton, being attached to the bones or other hard parts, and moving these in different directions by their contractions. There are, however, some muscles which may be looked upon as belonging to the cutaneous system, or Exo-skeleton, and there are a few others which are connected with the viscera at the places where parts of these reach the surface of the body. The muscles are all symmetrical, and,, with the exception of the sphincters and one or two others, are in pairs. The number of voluntary muscles to which distinct names have beea given in the systems of Albinus and Soemmering, which are mainly fol- lowed in this work, amounts to about 240, there being some v-ariation above or below that number according as certain muscular parts are regarded as separate and independent muscles or only as portions of others. They naturally fall under the following four great divisions, and in the numerical proportions stated under each, viz.:— A. In the axial part of the body. 1. The muscles of the head and neck = 75. 2. The m.uscles of the vertebral column and trunk =51. B. In the limbs. 3. The muscles of the upper limb = 58. 4. The muscles of the lower limb = 59. In the detailed description of the muscles, however, while the fore- going general divi^ons will be followed, it may be expedient occasion- ally to deviate from the strictly systematic arrangement, in so far as may conduce to facility in study and convenience in dissection. Each muscle constitutes a separate organ, composed chiefly of a mass of the contractile fibrous tissue which is called muscular, and of other tissues and parts which may be regarded as accessory. Thus the muscular fibres are connected together in bundles or fasciculi (see General Anatomy), and these fasciculi are again embedded in and united together by a quantity of connective tissue, forming the j^ermy- siim, and the whole muscle is usually enclosed in an external sheath of the same material. Many of the muscles are connected at their more or less tapering extremities with tendons by which they are attached to the bones or hard parts ; and tendinous bands frequently run to a con- siderable length either on the surface of a muscle or between its fibres. There is indeed great variety in the relation of the muscular and tendinous portions, but few muscles are entirely destitute of some tendinous element in their composition. Further, blood-vessels are largely distributed in the substance of a muscle, carrying the matei'ials necessary for its nourishment and chemico- vital changes, and there are also lymphatic vessels, as in other vascular parts of the body. Nerves are ramified through every muscle, by which the muscular contractions are called forth and a low degree of sensi- bility is conferred upon the muscular substance. The muscles vary much in their individual forms. Some are broad and