594 NEEVE3 OF THE UPPER LIMB. Posterior interosseous nerve.—This nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the musculo-spiral nerve, winds to the back of the'forearm through the fibres of the supinator brevis muscle, and is prolonged between the deep and superficial layers of the extensor muscles to the interosseous membrane, which it approaches about the middle of the forearm. Fig. 364.—View op the Radial side op the Forearm, SHOWING THE FINAL DISTRIBUTION OP THE MUSCULC- Spiral Nerve (after Hirsclifeld and Leveille). l The supinator longus, and extensores carpi radiales longior and brevier have been divided, and their upper parts re- moved ; tlie extensor communis digitorum is pulled back- wards by a hook, and the supinator brevis has been par- tially dissected to show the postei-ior interosseous nerve passing through it. 1, placed upon the tendon of the biceps muscle, points to the musculo-cutaneous nerve ; 1', near the wrist, the lower part of this nerve and its plexus of union with the radial nerve ; 2, trunk of the musculo-spiral nerve emerg- ing from between the brachialis anticus, on which the number is placed, and the supinator longus muscle ; 2', its muscular twigs to the long supinator and long radial extensor of the carpus ; 2", the posterior interosseous nerve passing through the substance of the supinator brevis ; 3, placed upon the cut lower portion of the supinator longus, and lower down the radial nerve; 4, the external collateral nerve of the thumb ; 5, the common collateral of the fore- finger and thumb ; 6, the common collateral of the fore-finger and middle finger ; 7, the twig of union with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve ; 8, placed upon the common ex- tensor of the fingers, the muscular branches of the posterior interosseous nerve to the long extensor muscles ; 9, upon the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, the branches to the short extensor muscles. Much diminished in size by the separation of numerous branches for the muscles, the nerve lies at the lower part of the forearm beneath the extensor of the last phalanx of the thumb and the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers, and terminates on the back of the carpus in a gangliform enlargement, from which filaments are given to the adjoining ligaments and articulations. The branches of the interosseous nerve enter the surrounding muscles, viz., the extensor carpi radialis brevier and supinator brevis, the superficial layer of the extensor muscles, except the anconeus, and the deep layer of the same muscles :— that is to say, the nerve supplies the supinators, and the extensors of the carj^us and fingers, with the exception of the supinator longus and the extensor carpi radialis longior. Summary.—The m.usculo-spiral nerve distributes its branches to the extensor muscles of the elbow-joint exclusively, with the exception of a filament to the brachialis anticus, which, however, receives its principal nerves from another source. Before separating into its two large divisions, the nerve gives branches to two muscles of the forearm, viz., the long supinator, and the long radial extensor of the carpus. The Fig. 364. b