BONES OF THE THORAX. STERNUM. 25 accessory or anapopli ijsis, directed downwards or backwards. Several circumstances in the anatomy both of the bones and muscles, as well as the form and position of occasional or supernumerary lumbar ribs, seem to indicate that the outer part of the lumbar transverse processes is serially homologous with the first part of the ribs, but so intimately combined with both diapophysis and parapophysis, and the part lying between them, as to leave no arterial passage ; but a groove on the upper side is regarded by some as an indication of the place of separation. In the sacral part of the column still greater departure from the form of the transverse process of the upper vertebrje takes jjlace by the large develop- ment and ossific union of the lateral parts. Throughout the whole five vertebrte recognised as sacral in man, this may be looked upon as occurring to some extent in portions of the bones which are serially homologous with the combined diapophysis and parapophysis ; but in two at least, and perhaps in three of the upper sacral vertebr93, another lateral element appears to be interposed between that combined transverse process and the iliac surface of articulation, constitut- ing the greater jDortion of the large lateral mass of the sacrum. This element Is looked upon by some as serially homologous with part of a rib. (Retzius, Miiller's Archiv," 1849; Miiller Vergleich. Anat. der Myxinoiden ;" Owen, On the Archetj-pe. »5cc., of the Vert. Skeleton ; " Aug. Miiller. Miiller s " Archiv," 185.3 ; Humphry, Treatise on the Human Skeleton ;Goodsir, in " Edin. New Philos. Journ.." 1857 ; Cleland, in Nat. Hist. Review,"' 1861 and 1863 ; Huxley, " Hunterian Lect. in Brit. Med. Journ.," 1869 ; St, George Mivart, in " Linn. Trans.," 1870. and ''Elementary Anatomy," 1873; Flower, ''Osteology of the Mammalia," 1870 ; Gegenbaur, Grundzuge der Vergieich. Anat.," 1870.) With the exception of the anterior arch of the atlas already referred to, there are no parts developed in the human skeleton which correspond with the Jiyj^- ai)0})liyscs which occur in connection with the vertebral column of animals, such as the '' chevron " bones below the caudal vertebra3 of cetacea, and the ha3mal arches enclosing the main artery of fishes. The similarity of some of the parts composing the skull to vertebra, or the serial homology of the bones of the head and vertebras, supposed by some anatomists to exist, will be referred to hereafter. II.—THE THORAX. The thoracic part of the skeleton consists of the dorsal vertebrge already described, the sternum, the ribs, and the costal cartilages. THE STERNUM OR BREAST-BONE. The sternum is situated in the median line at the fore part of the thorax. It is connected with the rest of the trunk by the cartilages of the first seven pairs of ribs, and gives attachment to the clavicles. It consists originally of six segments. The first of these usually remains distinct up to middle life, and is called the mamiJjrivm or prestermim ; the succeeding four are united into one in the adult, and form the locly or mesosrernum: the sixth generally remains cartilaginous up to the period of puberty, and sometimes partially so even to advanced age, coiistitutmg the ensiform pi^ocess, or metasternum: in middle life it is most frequently ossified and united by bone to the body. The sternum is flattened fi'om before backwards, and presents a slight vertical curve with the convexity in front. It is of unequal width, being broad at the upper part of the presternum, considerably narrower at the lower end of that portion and in the first segment of the meso- sternum, somewhat wider near the lower end of that portion, and finally compressed and narrowed near the junction with the metasternum. It consists of light cancellated texture, with a thin covering of compact bone-