THE SCAPULA. 83 The acromion process, projecting outwards and forwards from the extremity of the spine over the glenoid cavity, forms the summit of the shoulder. It is an expanded process, compressed from above down- wards. Its superior surface, rough and subcutaneous, is continuous with the prominent border of the spine ; its inferior surface, smooth and concave, is continuous with the superior surface and external border of the spine. On its internal border anteriorly is a narrow oval surface for articulation with the clavicle. The glenoid cav'ti is a slightly concave surface, looking outwards and forwards. It i; pyriform in shape, with the narrow end upper- most, and gently incurved in front. Its rim is flattened, and in the recent state, it-" is covered by a fibrous band, the glenoid ligament, which deepens its concavity ; at its upper extremity is a slight rough- ness, marking the attachment of the long head of the biceps muscle. The neck, supporting the glenoid cavity, is most distinct posteriorly, where it forms with the spine the great scapular notch or groove, leading from the supraspinous to the infraspinous fossa. The line of the neck, as described by anatomists, passes superiorly between the glenoid cavity and the coracoid process, but that of the part described as neck by surgeons passes internal to the coracoid process. The coracoid process, thick, strong, and hook-like, rises for a short distance almost vertically from the superior border of the bone, above the glenoid cavity, and then bending at a right angle, is directed forwards and outwards. Its superior surface, towards the base, is rough and uneven, giving origin to the coraco-clavicular ligaments ; on its outer border is attached the coraco-acromial ligament, at its extremity the coraco-brachialis muscle and short head of the biceps, and on the inner edge the pectoralis minor. The horders or coster of the scapula are three in number. The superior border is the shortest; it extends from the superior angle outwards and downwards to the coracoid process, at the base of Avhich it presents a rounded siiprasccqnilar notch, which is converted into a foramen by a ligament or occasionally by a spiculum of bone, and is traversed by the suprascapular nerve. The external, axillary, or wferior border presents at its upper part, beneath the glenoid cavity, a rough ridge, above an inch long, to which the long head of the triceps muscle is attached : below this there is usually a slight groove, where the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery passes backwards : and at its lower extremity the border is thick, and rounded over into the space from which the teres major muscle arises. The internal or posterior border, called also the base, is the longest of the three, and is divisible into three parts, viz., a short one opposite the triangular surface of origin of the prominent border of the spine, and the portions above and below that space, both of which incline outwards as they recede from the spine. The upper part gives attachment to the levator anguli scapuloe muscle, the middle to the rhomboideus minor, and the lower to the rhomboideus major muscle. Texture.—The triangular part of the scapula is in great part thin and translucent, and contains little cancellated tissue. The neck, the coracoid and acromion processes, the prominent border of the spine, and the part near the inferior angle, derive their greater thickness and strength from increased thickness of the compact bony substance in some parts, and from cancellated tissue in others. X vascular foramen G 2