600 OTE LUMBAR NEEVES. and anterior crural nerves, and a connecting branch to the fifth nerve. The BEAXCHES of this plexus form two sets, which are distributed, one to the lower part of the wall of the abdomen, the other to the fore part and inner side of the lower limb. In the former set are the ilio- hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves, and part of the genito-crural; and to the latter belong the remaining part of the genito-crural nerve, the external cutaneous, the obturator, and the anterior crural nerves. Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. These nerves are the upper two branches from the lumbar plexus ; they are both derived from the first lumbar nerve, and have a nearly similar distribution. They become subcutaneous by passing between the broad muscles of the abdomen, and through the outer one, and end in the integument of the groin and scrotum in the male, and the labia pudendi in the female, as well as in the integument covering the gluteal muscles. The extent of distribution of the one is inversely proportional to that of the other. The ilio-hypogastric nerve, emerging from the upper part of the psoas muscle at the outer border, runs obliquely over the quadratus lumborum to the iliac crest, and there perforating the transverse muscle of the abdomen, gets between that muscle and the internal oblique, and divides into an iliac and hypogastric branch. (a) The iliac hranch pierces the attachment of both oblique muscles, immedi- ately above the iliac crest, and is lost in the integument over the gluteal muscles, behind the distribution of the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve. (J)^ The Injpocindric or aMominal branch passes on between the transverse and internal oblique muscles, and is connected with the ilio-inguinal nerve near the iliac crest. It then perforates the internal oblique muscle, and, piercing the aponeurosis of the external oblique, a little above the superficial inguinal opening, is distributed to the skin of the abdomen above the pubes. The size of the iliac branch of this nerve varies inversely with that of the lateral cutaneous branch of the twelfth dorsal. The hypogastric branch is not unfrequently joined with the last dorsal nerve between the muscles, near the crest of the innominate bone. The ilio-inguinal nerve, smaller than the preceding, supplies the integument of the groin. Descending obliquely outwards over the quadratus lumborum, it crosses the fibres of the iliacus muscle, being placed lower down than the iho-hypogastric : it then perforates the transverse muscle further forwards than the ilio-hypogastric ; com- municating with that nerve between the abdominal muscles. Then piercing the internnl oblique muscle, it descends in the inguinal canal, and emerging at the superficial inguinal ring, is distributed to the skin upon the groin, as well as to that upon the scrotu.ii and penis in the male, or the labium pudendi in the female, communicating with the inferior pudendal nerve. In its progress this nerve furutshes branches to the internal oblique muscle. Varieties.—The ilio-inguinal nerve occasionally arises from Llie loop connect- mg the first and second lumbar nerves. It is sometimes small, and ends near tlio iliac crest by joining the ilio-hypogastric nerve ; in which case the latter gives