56 BONES OF THE HEAD. hyoid ligaments. They continue for a long time moyable, as the cartilage which connects them remains unossified till an advanced period of life. THE SKULL AS A WHOLE. THE SUTUBES. With the exception of the lower jaw, which is articulated movably with the temporal bone, all the bones of the skull are closely fitted together by more or less uneven edges or surfaces. To those articula- tions whicii are markedly serrated the name of suture is given. The sutures of the skull are best named from the bones between which they lie, as, for example, occipito-parietal, occipito-mastoid, fronto-ethmoid, parieto-sphenoid, &c. The arch of the skull is inter- Fig. 49.—Front View of Male Skull at about Twenty Years. (A. T.) ^ 1, frontal eminence ; 2, glabella, between tlie super- ciliary eminences, and above tlie transverse suture of union with the nasal and siiiDerior maxillary bones ; 3, supra-orbital ridge near the supra-orbital notch ; 4, in the orbit on the oi'bital plate of the sphenoid bone, between the foramen lacerum orbitale and the spheno- maxillary fissure ; 5, the anterior opening of the nares, withinv.'hich are seen in shadow the nasal crest of the superior maxillary bones, the vertical plate of the eth- moid bone, and on each side the turbinated bones; 6, superior maxillary bone at the canine fossa—above the figure is the infra-orbital foramen ; 7, myrtifonn, or incisor fossa; 8, malar bone; 9, symphysis menti and median ridge ; 10, body oi the lower jaw, above the outer oblique ridge and the mental foramen; 11, vertex, near the coronal suture; 12, temporal fossa; 13,zygoma; 14, mastoid process ; 15, angle of the jaw; 16, mental angle. In this skull there are fourteen teeth in each jaw, the wisdom teeth having not yet appeared. sected superiorly by three great serrated sutures, two of which, placed transversely, correspond to the anterior and posterior margins of the parietal bones, while the third passes between them in the middle line. On each side also an irrej?ular longitudinal line of suture runs from the Fig. 49. il