575 ANTEHIOR DIYISIONS OF SPIXAL KERVES. The posterior divisions of the last two sacral nerves are smaller than those above them, and are not divided into external and internal branches. They are connected with each other by a loop on the back of the sacrum, and the lowest is joined in a similar manner with the coccygeal nerve ; one or two small filaments from these sacral nerves are distributed behind the coccyx. Coccygeal Nerve.—The posterior division of the coccygeal nerve is very small, and separates from the anterior primary portion of the nerve in the sacral canal. It is joined by a communicating filament from the last sacral nerve, and ends in the fibrous structure covering the posterior surface of the coccyx. AISTTEEIOR PSIMAHY DIVISIOIMS OP THE SPI]SrAIi IvFEllVES. The anterior primary divisions of the spinal nerves are distributed to the parts of the body situated in front of the vertebral cokimn, in- cluding the limbs. They are, for the most part, considerably larger than the posterior divisions. The anterior division of each spinal nerve is connected by one or two slender filaments with the sympathetic. Those of the cervical, lumbar, and sacral nerves form plexuses of various forms; but those of the dorsal nerves remain for the most part separate from one another. CEEYICAL ITERVES. The anterior divisions of the four upjDcr cervical nerves form the cervical plexus. They appear at the side of the neck between the scalenus inedius and rectus anticus major muscles. They are each connected by a communicatin.2:" filament with the first cervical ganglion of the sympathetic nerve, or with the cord connecting that ganglion with the second. The anterior divisions of the four lower cervical nerves, larger than those of the upper four, appear between the scaleni muscles, and, together with that of the first dorsal, go to form the brachial plexus. They are each connected by a filament with one of the two lower cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, or with the plexus on the vertebral artery. The anterior divisions of the first and second nerves require a notice separately from the description of the nerves of the cervical plexus. SUB-OCCIPITAL ITEBVE. The anterior primary division of the first nerve runs forwards in a groove on the atlas, and bends dovviiwards in front of the transverse process of that vertebra to join the second nerve. In this course for- wards it lies beneath the vertebral artery, and at the inner side of the rectus lateralis muscle, to which it gives a branch. As it crosses the foramen in the transverse process of the atlas, the nerve is joined by a filament from the sympathetic; and from the loop which it makes in front of the transverse process, branches are supplied to the two anterior recti muscles. Short filaments connect this part of the nerve with the pneumo-gastric, the hypoglossal, and the sympathetic nerves. Valentin notices filaments distributed to the articulation of the occipital bone with the atlas, and to the mastoid process of the temporal bone.