THE ABDOMIJTAL AOETA. 424 below by dividing into two trunks, named the common iliac arteries. The bifurcation usually takes place about half way down the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line ; a point which is nearly on a level with a line drawn from the one crista ilii to the other, and opposite the left side of the umbilicus. The anterior surface of the abdominal aorta is successively in apposi- tion with the pancreas and the splenic vein, the left renal vein, the third portion of the duodenum, and the peritoneum. The vena cava lies along its right side, the right crus of the diaphragm being inter- posed at the upper part of the abdomen ; close to the same side are the thoracic duct and the azygos vein, which are placed between the aorta and the right crus of the diaphragm. The aorta is also covered in Iront by meshes of nerves derived from the sympathetic, and numerous lymphatic vessels and glands. Branches.—The abdominal aorta gives numerous branches, which may be divided into two sets, viz., those wliich supply the viscera, and those which are distributed to the walls of the abdomen. The former consists of the coeliac artery, the superior mesenteric, the inferior me- senteric, the capsular, the renal, and the spermatic arteries ; whilst in the latter arc included the phrenic, the lumbar, and the middle sacral arteries. The first three of the visceral branches are single arteries. Varieties. —Place of JDivision.—In more tlian three-fourths of a considerable number of cases, the aorta divided either upon the fourth lumbar vertebra, or upon the intervertebral disc below it; in one case out of nine it was below, and in about one out of eleven above the spot thus indicated. In ten bodies out of every thu-teen, the division of the great artery took place within half an inch above or below the level of the iliac crest ; and it occurred more frequently below than above the fourth intervertebral space. (R. Quain, op. cit. p. 41.5.) An instance of bifurcation immediately below the origin of the right renal artery is recorded byllaller (Disputat. Anatom. t. vi. p. 781.) Unusual Branch.—A very remarkable case is recorded of the existence of a large pulmonary branch which arose from the abdominal aorta, close to the coeliac artery, and after passing ui3wards through the oesophageal opening in the dia- phragm, divided into two branches, which were distributed to the lungs near their bases. (Referred to by R. Quain in his work " On the Arteries," p. 416.) A.—VISCERAL BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. The CCELIAC ARTERY or AXIS, a short and wide vessel, arises from the aorta close to the margin of the diaphragm. It is directed forwards nearly horizontally, and is not more than half an inch long. It is behind the small omentum, and lies close to the left side of the lobulus Spigelii of the liver, and above the pancreas, the two semilunar ganglia being contiguous to it, one on each side. This artery divides into three branches, viz., the coronary artery of the stomach, the hepatic and the splenic, which separate simultaneously from the end of the artery like radii from an axis. Varieties.—The cccliac axis is occasionally partly covered at its origin by the diaphragm. It may be longer than usual, in wliich case its branches are not given off together; or it may be entirely v/anting, the coronary, hepatic, and splenic arteries arising separately from the aorta. In some cases the coeliac artery gives off only two branches at its division (the coronary and the splenic), the hepatic being supplied from another source. Rarely, it gives more than three branches