465 THE PERONEAL ARTERY. malleolus ; below this point, the vessel is covered only by the common integument and the fascia. The peroneal artery rests at first against the upper part of the tibialis posticus muscle, and afterwards in the greater part of its course, it is surrounded by fibres of the flexor longus poUicis, lying close inside the projecting posterior ridge of the fibula. Descending beyond the outer malleolus, it terminates in branches on the outer surface and back of the os calcis. Branches.—(n) Muscular brandies from the upper part of the peroneal artery pass to the soleus, the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus poUicis, and the peronei muscles. (Jj) A nutrient artery enters the fibula. (cO The anterior lyeroneal artery arises about two inches above the outer malleolus, and, immediately piercing- the interosseous membrane, descends along- the front of the fibula, covered by the peroneus tertius muscle, and, dividing into branches, reaches the outer ankle, and anastomoses with the external malleolar branch of the anterior tibial artery. It supplies vessels to the ankle-joint, and ramifies on the front and outer side of the tarsus, inosculating more or less freely with the tarsal arteries. {d^ The terminal branches anastomose with the external malleolar and with the tarsal arteries on the outer side of the foot; and behind the os calcis with ramifications of the posterior tibial artery. The coutmunicating branch, lying close behind the tibia, about two inches from its lower end, is a transverse branch situated close to the bones, which con- nects the peroneal with the posterior tibial artery. Varieties.—The ])osterior tibial artery, as well as the anterior tibial, is leng-thened in those instances in which the popliteal artery divides higher up than usual. Not unfrequently the posterior tibial artery is diminished in size, and is subsequently reinforced either by a transverse branch from the peroneal in the lower part of the leg, or, in rare instances, by two transverse vessels, one crossing close to the bone, and the other over the deep muscles. In other instances the posterior tibial may exist only as a short muscular trunk in the upper part of the leg, while an enlarged peroneal artery takes its place from above the ankle downwards into the foot. The j^ej'oneal artery has been found to arise lower down tlian usual, about three inches below the popliteus muscle; and, on the contrary, it sometim.es commences higher up from the posterior tibial, or even from the popliteal artery itself. In some cases of high division of the popliteal artery, the peroneal artery is trans- ferred to the anterior tibial. It more frequently exceeds than falls short of the ordinary dimensions, being enlarged to reinforce the posterior tibial. In those rare instances in which it is lost before reaching the lower part of the leg, ■a branch of the posterior tibial takes its place. The anterior peroneal branch is sometimes enlarged to compensate for the small size of the anterior tibial artery in the lower part of the leg, or to supply the place of that artery on the dorsum of the foot; or it may be absent and be replaced by the anterior tibial. In a singular case, recorded by Otto, the peroneal artery was wholly wanting. PLANTAR ARTERIES. The external and internal plantar arteries are the branches into is^hich the posterior tibial divides in the hollow of the calcaneum, where it is covered by the origin of the abductor pollicis. The internal plantar artery, much smaller than the external, is directed forwards, along the inner side of the foot. Placed at first under cover of the abductor pollicis, it passes forwards in the groove between that muscle and the short flexor of the toes, near the line separating the middle from the inner portion of the plantar fascia, and on reaching the extremity of the first metatarsal bone, considerably VOL. I. H H