MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. 258 Belations.—The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis runs m the interval between the heads of the short flexor. A sesamoid bone is developed in connec- tion with each tendon of the short flexor. Fig. 199.—Third Layer of Plantar Muscles. 1, flexor brevis pollicis ; 2, adductor polHck ; 3, trans versus pedis ; 4, flexor brevis minimi digiti ; 5, r», part of the third and fourth dorsal interossei ; 6, 6, the second and third plantar interossei ; 7, tendon of the peroneus longus passing round the cuboid bone to enter its groove ; 8, long plantar ligament passing forwards to the ridge of the cuboid bones and spreading over the groove of the peroneus tendon. The adductor pollicis pedis, placed obliquely in the sole of the foot, and forming a thick fleshy mass, arises from the tarsal extremities of the third and fourth metatarsal bones, and from the sheath of the peroneus longus muscle ; narrowing as it passes forwards, it is inserted, conjointly with the external head of the flexor brevis pollicis, Relations.—At its inner side it is connected with the flexor brevis pollicis; its deep surface rests upon the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones and the inter- vening interosseous muscles. Tlie external plantar artery and nerve pass inwards beneath its outer border. Variety.—The opponens hallucis is a muscle frequently found. It usually comes off as a slip from the adductor, and is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It occurs in some apes. (Macalister.) The transversus pedis consists of narrow fasciculi of fleshy fibres, placed transversely under cover of the flexor tendons, and arising from the inner lateral metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the four outer toes. The fibres of the muscle pass transversely inwards, and are inserted in union with the adductor pollicis into the first phalanx of the great toe. Itclat'ions,—Superficially it is crossed by the flexor tendons and by the digital nerves ; its deep surface rests upon the heads of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones, the interossei muscles and the digital vessels. Variety.—The slip from the little toe is frequently absent : absence of other slips or of the entire muscle has also been recorded. (Boehmer.) The flexor brevis minimi digiti arises by tendinous fibres from the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and from the sheath of the pero- neus longus, and terminates in a tendon which is inserted into the base and external border of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—It is covered partly by the abductor minimi digiti, partly by the plantar fascia. It rests upon the fifth metatarsal bone, and its tendon blends at its insertion with the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligament. Variety.—The oppoiiens minimi digiti is a small additional muscle frequently found at the inner border of the flexor brevis, of which, indeed, it would seem to be a slip. It is always united to the flexor bre^as for some distance from its origin, but is inserted separately into the inner side of the anterior half of the fifth metatarsal bone. The Fourth Layer of Muscles.—The interosseous muscles of the foot, like those of the hand, are seven in number, three plantar and four dorsal ; the plantar interossei are visible only from the under side: Eig. 199.