THE ABSOEBENT VESSELS. 504 valved orifices. One of these, larger than the rest, (middle or posterior cardiac vein), ascends along the groove between the ventricles upon the posterior surface of the heart. It commences by small branches at the apex of the heart, which communicate with those of the preceding vein, and then ascends to the base, receiving branches from the sub- stance of both ventricles. The small or anterior cardiac veins (venge cordis parvse) are several small branches, which commence upon the anterior surface of the right ventricle, and passing upwards and outwards, open separately into the right auricle, after having crossed over the groove between it and the ventricle. The coronary sinus is about an inch in length, and is placed at the back of the heart in the tfansverse groove between the left auricle and ventricle, w^here it is covered by the muscular fibres of the auricle. At one end it is joined by a small vein from the right side, and opens into the right auricle beneath the Thebesian valve ; at the other, it receives the large coronary vein, and a small straight vein directed obliquely along the back of the left auricle ; whilst between those points other veins enter it from the back of the heart. All the veins joining it, except the small oblique vein, are provided with more or less complete valves at their terminations. The coronary sinus, together with the small oblique vein above referred to, considered with reference to their early foetal condition and certain malfoi-ma- tions to which they are subject along- with other neighbouring- veins, may be looked upon rather as the persistent terminal parts of a typically distinct left superior vena cava, than as simply the main stem of the cardiac veins. The explanation of this will be found in the description of tlie development of these veins. 2.—THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. The absorbent vessels are divisible physiologically into two sets ;— the ladeals , which convey the chyle from the alimentary canal to the thoracic duct; and the lymjjTiatics, which take up the lymph from all the other parts of the body, and return it into the venous system. Anatomically considered, however, the lacteals are not different from the lymphatics, and may be regarded as the absorbents of the mucous membrane of the intestine. The larger lacteals and lymphatics are provided with numerous valves, which give them, when distended, a somewhat moniliform appearance ; and both are connected in thei^ir course with lacteal or lijmphatw glands. The general auatomy of the absorbents having been elsewhere de- tailed, only their course and position remain to be here described. They are gathered into a right and a left trunk, which open into the angles of union of the subclavian and internal jugular veins. The large vessel of the left side traversing the thorax is named the thoracic duct: it receives not only the lymphatics of its own side of the head and arm, and the most of those of the trunk, but likewise the lymphatics of both lower limbs, and the whole of the lacteals. The vessel of the right side is named the right lymphatic duct, and receives the lymphatics only of that side of the head and neck and upper part of the trunk. THE THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct is the common trunk which receives the absorbents from both the lower limbs, from the abdominal viscera (except part of