THE SPIXAL VEINS. 493 clown by the branches of communication which pass outwards. In some parts the veins are double, or even triple, so as to form a plexus, and occasionally they are altogether interrupted. In the thoracic region their communicating branches open into the intercostal veins, in the loins into the lumbar veins, in the neck for the most part into the vertebral. d. The posterior longitudinal spinal veins are a complex interlace- ment of tortuous veins along the inner or anterior surface of the arches of the vertebra3. In the lower part of the canal this interlacement of veins is not so close as in the upper portion, where it usually conceals (if the injection has been successful) the whole surface of the dura mater. These veins converge to the intervertebral foramina, and join by rather small vessels with the intercostal veins. e. —The veins of the spinal cord (Breschet) ramify upon the cord and its nerves, enclosed within the sheath formed by the dura mater. Though they communicate with the other spinal veins, they are not injected with them, even when the injecting process is most successful. Yery small, long, and tortuous, they run upon both surfaces of the cord, and form a diffused network. They become larger, for the most part, as they ascend, but near the base of the skull they are smaller than in the lumbar region. They communicate freely with the spinal veins and plexuses, by means of branches which accompany the nerves towards the intervertebral foramina. Near the base of the skull they unite to form two or three small trunks, which communicate by trans- verse branches with the vertebral veins, and terminate in the inferior cerebellar veins, or in the petrosal sinuses. From a consideration of the connection and arrangement of the different parts of these complex veins, it would appear that the main currents of the blood in each part flow through them horizontally. The dorsal veins pour their blood into the longitudinal plexus on the inner surface of the arches of the vertebras ; thence it is collected, at each of the intervertebral foramina, by two or three small converging branches, which open into some of the veins outside the vertebral column in front, viz., into the lumbar, azygos, and cervical veins. Into these, also, the contents of the great spinal veins are conveyed by the short communicating branches already noticed. mFEEIOR VESTA CAVA. The lower or ascending vena cava returns the blood from the lower limbs, and from the viscera of the pelvis and abdomen. It commences at the junction of the two common iliac veins on the side of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and thence ascends along the right side of the aorta, as far as the posterior border of the liver ; it there becomes lodged in a groove in that organ, and inclines forwards to reach the opening in the diaphragm appropriated to it, and after being- enclosed in a fold of the pericardium, terminates in the right auricle of the heart. A large valve is situated at its entrance into the auricle, named the valve of Eustachius, which, however, as explained in the description of the heart, is only a vestige of a foetal structure, variable in size, and without influence in preventing reflux of the blood. Tributaries.—Besides the common iliac veins, the inferior vena cava receives the following.