89 THE ULXA. natural skeleton it is not in contact with the carpal bones, being sepa- rated from the cuneiform bone by an interarticular fibro-cartilage. The superior extremity is of large size, and presents for articulation with the humerus a large articular surface, the great sigmoid caviiy, wdiich looks forwards and is bounded in its posterior and upper part by the olecranon, a thick process continued upwards from the shaft, and in its lower part by the coronoid process, wdiich projects forwards. The great sigmoid cavity is concave from above downwards, and is convex from side to side, being traversed by a vertical ridge. The part external to this ridge is broad and convex above, while the part internal to the ridge is broad and concave below : a slight constriction, and Fig. 75. Fig. 76. Fig. 75.—Right Ulxa from before. Fig. 76.—Right Ulna from behind. (A. T.) g 1, point or beak of the olecranon; 2, tuberosity of the olecranon ; 3, end of the coronoid process ; 4, great sigmoid articular surface ; 5, lesser sigmoid cavity, and below it the sui-face for the supinator brevis muscle ; 6, interosseous ridge ; 7, lower extremity or head ; 8, styloid process ; 9, rough surface of insertion of the brachialis anticus muscle ; below 10, the oblique line marking the attachment of the pronator quadratus muscle ; 11, triangular surface for the anconeus muscle ; 12, upper part of the posterior border, to the right of which the depressions tor the long extensor muscles of the fingers occupy the posterior surface. sometimes a notch of division occurs across the middle of the cavity. Con- tinuous with the great is the small sig- moid cavity, a small articular surface on the outer side of the base of the coronoid process, slightly concave from before back- wards, and articulating with the cylin- drical part of the head of the radius. Superiorly the olecranon is broad and un- even, terminating in front in an acute process or beak, which overhangs the great sigmoid cavity, and which in exten- sion of the elbow passes into the olecranon fossa of the humerus, and behind in a rectangular prominence or tuberosity, which forms the point of the elbow, and gives attachment to the triceps extensor muscle. The posterior surface of the olecranon is subcutaneous and conti.nuous with the posterior margin of the shaft of the ulna. The extremity of the coronoid process is sharp and prominent, and is received during flexion into the coronoid fossa of the humerus its superior surface forms part of the surface of the great sigmoid cavity ; the inferior smface rises gra- dually from the anterior surface of the bone, and is covered by a large triangular roughness which gives insertion to the brachialis anticus muscle. The lodg or shaft in the upper three-fourths of its extent is three-