THE CEEVICAL NERVES. 580 it is joined by a filament of the sympathetic, and sometimes also by another filament derived from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. As it enters the thorax each phrenic nerve is placed between the sub- clavian artery and vein, and crosses over the internal mammary artery near the root. It then takes nearly a straight direction, in front of the root of the lung on each side, and along the side of the pericardium,— between this and the mediastinal part of the pleura. Near the dia- phragm it divides into branches, which separately penetrate the fibres of that muscle, and then diverging from each other, are distributed on the under surface. The right nerve is placed more deeply than the left, and is at first directed along the outer side of the right innominate vein, and the descending vena cava. The nerve of the left side is a little longer than that of the right, in consequence of the oblique position of the pericardium round which it winds, and also because of the diaphragm being lower on this than on the opposite side. This nerve crosses in front of the arch of the aorta and the pulmonary artery before rea«ching the pericardium. Besides the terminal hranches supplied to the diaphrag-m, each phrenic nerve gives filaments to the pleura and pericardium ; and receives sometimes an offset from the union of the descendens noni with the cervical nerves. Swan notices this union as occuning only on the left side. Luschka describes twigs from the lower part of the nerve to the peritoneum, the inferior cava, and the right auricle of the heart. One or two filaments of the nerve of the right side join in a small ganglion with branches to the diaphragm which are derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic ; and from the ganglion twigs are given to the suprarenal capsule, the hepatic plexus, and the lower vena cava. On the left side there is a junction between the phrenic and the sympathetic nerves near the oesophageal and aortic openings in the diaphragm, but without the appearance of a ganglion. ly. Deep Branches : External Series. Muscular "branches.—The sterno-mastoid receives a branch from the second cervical nerve. Two branches proceed from the third nerve to the levator anguli scapulae ; and from the third and fourth cervical nerves, as they leave the spinal canal, branches are given to the middle scalenus muscle. Further, the trapezius has branches prolonged to it; and thus, like the sterno-mastoid, this muscle receives nerves from both the spinal accessory and the cervical plexus. Connection Kith the sjyinal accessory ner've.—In the substance of the sterno- mastoid muscle, this nerve is connected with the branches of the cervical plexus furnished to that muscle. It is also connected with the branches distributed to the trapezius—the union between the nerves being beneath the muscle, and liaving the appearance of a plexus; and with another branch of the cervical plexus in the interval between the two muscles. Summary of tee cervical plexus.—From the cervical plexus are distributed cutaneous nerves to the back of the head, to part of the ear and face, to the anterior half of the neck, and to the upper part of the trunk. The muscles supplied with nerves from the plexus are the sterno-mastoid, the platysma, and the lower hyoid muscles in part j the anterior recti capitis, the levator anguli scapulae, the trapezius, the scalenus medius, and the diaphragm. By means of its branches