MUSCLES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. is inserted into the angle and the inner surface of the ramus of the jaw as high as the dental foramen. Relations.—The internal pterygoid muscle is placed on the inner side of the ramus of the jaw, somewhat in the same manner as the masseter lies on the outside. Between the external surface of the muscle and the ramus of the maxilla are the internal lateral ligament and the internal maxillary vessels, with the dental artery and nerve ; and at its upper part the muscle is crossed by the external pterygoid muscle. Its inner surface is in contact, whilst in the ptery- goid groove, with the tensor palati muscle, and lower down with the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Fig. 206. B A Fig. 206.—Views op the Pterygoid Muscles—A, prom the outer side ; B, from THE INNER SIDE. |- 1, external pterygoid ; 2, internal pterygoid—the outer surface in A, the inner surface in B. The external pterygoid muscle, occupying the zygomatic fossa, arises by two fleshy heads placed close together, the superior of which is attached to that part of the external surface of the great wing of the sphenoid bone which looks into the zygomatic fossa, and to the ridge which separates that surface from the temporal fossa; while the in- ferior, which is larger, is attached to the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and to the tuberosities of the palate and upper max- illary bones. The fibres from both heads pass backwards, and converge to be inserted into the fore part of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage of the temporo-maxiilary articulation. Belatlons.—The internal maxillary artery is usually placed on the outer surface of this muscle, passing thence between the heads of origin ; while the buccal nerve issues from between those heads. The deep surface rests against the upper part of the internal pterygoid muscle, whose direction it crosses, also the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, the inferior maxillary nerve, and the middle meningeal artery. The upper border is in contact with the great wing of the sphenoid bone, and is crossed by the deep temporal nerve and arteries. Varieties.—The jytcj'i/^oideus 2y}V2)?ii(s (Jlenle). This is nearly a vertical slip, which passes from the crest of the great wing of the sphenoid to the tuberosity of the palate bone or to the posterior margin of the external pterygoid plate. In some cases repoi-ted by Mr. Wagstaffe (Journ. of Anat. vol. v., p. 281), in which this slip was present, the maxillary head of the external. pterygoid was absent, and some of the ordinary fibres arose from those vertical bands. Another form