THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. G07 of its course. In tlie tliigli it accompanies the femoral vessels, lying" at first somewhat to their outer side, but lower down approaching close to them, and passing beneath the same aponeurosis. When the vessels pass through the open- ing in the adductor muscle into the popliteal space, the saphenous nerve separates from them, and is continued downwards beneath the sartorius muscle to the inner side of the knee ; where, having first given off, as it lies near the inner condyle of the femur, a branch which is distributed over the front of the patella, it becomes subcutaneous by piercing the fascia between the tendons of the sar- torius and gracilis muscles. The nerve then accompanies the saphenous vein along the inner side of the leg, and passing in front of the ankle is distributed to the inner side of the foot. In the leg it is connected with the internal cutaneous nerve. The distribution of the branches is as follows. A communicatinri branch is given off about the middle of the thigh to join in the interlacement formed beneath the fascia lata by this nerve and branches of the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves. After it has left the aponeurotic covering of the femoral vessels, the internal saphenous nerve has, in some cases, a further connection with one or other of the nerves just referred to. The branch to the integument hi front of the ijatella perforates the sartorius muscle and the fascia lata ; and, having received a communicating offset from the internal cutaneous nerve, spreads out upon the fore part of the knee ; and, by uniting with branches of the middle and external cutaneous nerves, forms a plexus—plexus patellaa. A branch to the inner ankle is given off in the lower third of the leg, and descends along the margin of the tibia, and some small filaments pierce the tarsal ligaments. Summary.-—The anterior crural nerve is distributed to the skin upon the fore part and inner side of the thigh, commencing below the termination of the ilio-iugninal and genito-craral nerves. It furnishes also a cutaneous nerve to the inner side of the leg and foot. All the muscles on the front and outer side of the thigh receive their nerves from the anterior crural, and the pectineus is also in part supplied by this nerve, and in part by the obturator. The tensor muscle of the fascia lata is supplied from a different source, viz., the superior gluteal nerve. Lastly, two branches are given from the anterior crural nerve to the knee-joint FIFTH LUMBAR NERVE. The anterior branch of the fifth lumbar nerve, having received a fasciculus from the nerve next above it, descends to join the first sacral nerve, and forms part of the sacral plexus. The cord resulting from the union of the fifth with a part of the fourth nerve, is named the lumho-sacral nerve. Superior G-lnteal 2i"erve.—Before joining the first sacral nerve the lumbo-sacral cord gives off from behind the superior gluteal nerve ; this offset leaves the pelvis through the large sacro-sciatic foramen, above the pyriformis muscle, and divides like the gluteal artery into two branches, which are distributed chiefly to the smaller gluteal muscles and tensor of the fascia lata. (fC) The upper branch runs with the gluteal artery along the origin of the gluteus minimus, and is lost in it and in the gluteus medius. (^) The lower branch crosses over the middle of the gluteus minimus between this and the gluteus medius, and supplying filaments to both those muscles, is continued forwards, and terminates in the tensor muscle of the fascia lata.