BONES OF THE HEAD. 44 The anterior border, tliin and serrated, articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The posterior border is prominent and free, and forms the boundary between the anterior and middle cranial fossae, tenninatino: internally in a smooth rounded laiob, the anterior clinoid process. Below and to the inside of this is the optic foramen. The pterygoid processes project downwards and elio^htly forwards, between the body and the great wings. Each consists of two plates united in front and diverging behind, so as to enclose between them the ]}ier\j(joid fossa. The external 2^t(^ry(joid 2)late, broader than the internal, lies in a plane extending backwards and outwards ; its outer surface bounds the zygomatic fossa, and gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle. The interDal pterygoid muscle arises from its inner surface. The internal ptenigoicl 'plate is longer and narrower than the external, and is prolonged into the slender hook-like or liamidar process, TomA which in a groove plays the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. At its base, the internal plate turns inwards beneath the body, from which its extremity remains distinct as a slightly raised edge, Xvhich articulates with the everted margin of the vomer; and externally to this it is marked by a small groove, which contributes with the palate bone to form the pterijfjo-palatim canal. The interval between the lower ends of the pterygoid plates is occupied by the pyramidal process of the palate bone. At the base of the internal pterygoid process is a slight depression, distinguished as the navicular fossa, which gives attachment to the tensor palati muscle. Fissures and foramina.—Each lateral half of the bone presents a fissure, four foramina, and a canal. The sphenoidal fissure is the obliquely placed elongated interval between the great and the small wing ; it is closed externally by the frontal bone, so as to form the foramen lacerum orbitale; it opens into the orbit, and transmits the third, fourth, and sixth nerves, the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. Above and to the inside of it is the optic foramen, which is inclined outwards and forwards from the side of the olivary process, pierces the base of the small wing, and transmits the •0]3tic nerve and the ophthalmic artery. The foramen rotundum is directed forwards through the great wing, below the sphenoidal fissure ; it opens immediately below the level of the orbit, and transmits the superior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. The foramen ovcde is large, placed behind and a little external to the foramen rotundum, near the posterior margin of the great wing ; it is directed downwards, and transmits the inferior maxillary division of the fifth nerve. The foramen spinosum is a small foramen piercing the great wing, near its posterior angle, and transmits the middle meningeal vessels. The Vidian or pterygoid canal, passes through the bone horizontally from before backwards at the base of the internal pterygoid plate ; it opens anteriorly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and posteriorly into the foramen lacerum medium, and transmits the Vidian nerve and vessels. Varieties.—Spicula of bono sometimes connect the anterior clinoid process with the pituitary fossa and with the posterior clinoid process. The outer ptery- goid plate is sometimes connected by a bridge of bone or of ligam^ent with the "spinous process. The foramen ovale and foramen spinosum are frequently in- complete at the posterior margin of the bone.