THE AORTA. 34S it bends downward?, inclining, at the same time, a little towards the middle line ; and at the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, on its left side, the arch terminates in the descending portion of the vessel. Near the base of the heart the aorta is larger than else- where, and presents externally three small bulgings of nearly equal size, corresponding with the dilatations which form the sinuses of Val- salva or simises of the aortic valves, described with the heart. Two of these sinuses are placed anteriorly and one posteriorly, and in the two anterior sinuses are seen the orifices of the two coronary arteries of the heart, the first branches given olf by the aorta. From the difference in tiie direction and connections of different portions of the arch it is described as consisting of an ascending^ a trans- verse, and a descending portion. The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta is placed at its com- mencement behind the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage of the left side : and it rises as high as the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side. Its length is about two inches or two inches and a quarter; and its direction is curved. In most cases there exists along the right side a dilatation, named the great sinus of the aorta. This dilatation varies in size in different bodies, and occasionally is not to be detected. This portion of the aortic arch is for the greater part of its length €nclosed in the same sheath of pericardium with the pulmonary artery in such a manner that both vessels are covered by the serous mem- brane, except where ttiey are in contact with each other. At its commencement tlie ascending part of the arch is in contact anteriorly with the pulmonary artery, and with the right auricular appendage ; but, farther up, the aorta passes to the right side and the pulmonary artery to the left, and thus the aorta comes into view. It then approaches very near to the sternum, from which it is separated only by the pericardium, by some connective tissue, and by the remains of the thymus gland lodged in the mediastinal space; the descending vena cava lies on the right side, and the pulmonary artery passes back- wards on the left; while behind are placed the structures forming the root of the right lung. The second or transverse part of the arch is covered on the left side by the left pleura and lung, and is placed immediately in front and to the left of the trachea, the oesophagus and the thoracic duct. The upper border of the transverse part of the arch has in contact with it the left innominate vein; and from it are given off the large arteries (innominate, left carotid, and left subclavian), which are furnished to the head and the upper limbs. The lower or concave border overhangs the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, and is connected with the left branch of that artery by the remains of the ductus arteriosus. This part of the arch is crossed in front by the left pneumogastric phrenic and superficial cardiac nerves ; and the recurrent laryngeal branch of the pneumogastric turns upwards beneath and behind it. The descending portion of the arch rests against the left side of the body of the third and fourth dorsal vertebrae, and is covered by the left pleura and the root of the left lung. To the right side of this part of the arch is the oesophagus with the thoracic duct. Branches.—The branches given off from the arch of the aorta are five in number. Two of these, named the coronary arteries of th&