466 ABTEEIES OF THE LOWES, LIMB. diminished in size, it terminates by runninc^ dong the inner border of the great toe, anastomosing with the digital branches. Fig. 298. Fig. 298.—Superficial view of the Arteries m THE Sole op the Right Foot (from Tiedeinann). ^ a, tuberosity of the calcaneum close to the origin of the flexor brevis digitorum (cut short) and the ab- ductor pollicis, of which a part is removed,. to show the plantar arteries ; b, abductor pollicis ; c, abductor minimi digiti ; d, tendon of the flexor pollicis longus ; e, tendon of the flexor communis longus ; e', its four slips, close to the lumbricales muscles, passing on to perforate the tendons of the flexor brevis ; /, flexor accessorius ; g, flexor brevis minimi digiti: 1, posterior tibial dividing into the plantar arteries ; 2, 2', external plantar ; 3, internal plantar ; 3', the same passing for- ward to communicate with 4, the digital branch for the ^ great toe, derived from the dorsal artery of the foot; 5, first digital or external plantar branch to the fifth toe ; 6, placed in the angle of division of the second plantar S digital artery, between the fourth and fifth toes ; 7, the third plantar digital arteiy dividing similarly between the third and fourth toes ; 8, the fourth plantar digital artery dividing similarly between the second and third toes ; 9, the plantar digital artery dividing similarly between the first and second toes ; 10, internal plantar artery of the great toe ; 11, calcaneal branches of the plantar arteries, anastomosing with 12, the calcaneal branches of the posterior peroneal artery. Branches.—The internal plantar artery gives off numerous small twigs, which may be disting-uished in sets as follows :—{a) muscular branches to the abductor pollicis and flexor brevis digitoriim ; (?>) offsets which incline towards the inner border of the foot, and communi- cate with branches of the dorsal arteries; and (c) cutaneous offsets which appear in the furrov/ between the middle and inner portions of the plantar fascia. The external plantar artery, of considerable size, at first inclines outwards and then forwards, to reach the base of the fifth metatarsal bone : it then turns obliquely inwards across the foot, to gain the interval between the bases of the first and second metatarsal bones, where it joins, by a communicating branch, with the dorsal artery of the foot; and thus is completed the plantar arch, the convexity of which is turned forward. At first the artery is placed, together with the external plantar nerve, between the calcaneum and the abductor pol- licis j further on it lies between the flexor brevis digitorum and flexor accessorius. As it turns forwards it lies in the interval between the short flexor of the toes and the abductor of the little toe, being placed along the line separating the middle from the external portion of the plantar fascia, and covered by that membrane. The remainder of the artery, which turns inwards and forms the plantar arch, is placed deeply against the interosseous muscles, and is covered by the flexors of the toes and the lumbricales muscles. Branches.—A. In its course to tlie fifth metacarjml love the external plantar artery gives off («) branches to the skin of the heel; {h') numeror^.s muscular branches ; (c) email offsets which run outwards over the border of the foot, and