124 MORPHOLOGY OF THE BOXES OF THE LIMBS. exists in the lower limb a double ventral branch (pnbis and ischium) most probably corresponding morphologically to the epicoracoid and coracoid of the Monotremata and Reptiles, The clavicle has, indeed, by some been held to be represented by Poupart's ligament, but it seems on the whole more probable that there is no exact homolog-ue of the clavicular arch in the lo-v^^t-r limb. The marsupial bone of the pouched mammals does not represent the clavicle, but lies in the situation of the upper or mesiad pillar of the external inguinal aperture. With regard to the com^parison to be established between the individual parts of the scapula and ilium, still greater difficulty prevails than in the general deter- minations before mentioned. When looked at only in man, the iliac fossa appears at first sight to be the most obvious representative of the subscapular fossa; while the dorsum ilii seems to contain within its limits parts corresponding to both the supra- and infraspinal fossEe. But when our observation extends to a series of different animals, this view loses its apparent probability, and a different mode of comparison is forced upon us. It then appears obvious that the iliac fossa does not at least coiTcspond to the subscapular ; but the full determina- tion of the homologies of the different paints of the scapula and ilium, is one of the most difiicult parts of this intricate subject. Two different views have lately been brought forward, the one suppoi-ted by Flower, according to which the scapula and ilium are supposed to have undergone rotation v.dth reference to the axis of the limbs in different directions, the scapula backwards, the ilium forwards, in such a manner that the prescapular fossa (supraspinous of man) corresponds to the sacral surface of the ilium, the postscapular (infraspinous of man) to the iliac fossa or surface, and the subscapular to the gluteal. (See Flower's " Osteology of the Mammalia," and " On the Correspondence between parts composing the shoulder and ohe pelvic girdle of the Mammalia," Journ. of Anat., vol. iv., 1870.) According to the other view maintained by Humphry, the prescapular and iliac fossa3 are regarded as homologous, and the post- scapular fossa as corresponding with the dorsum ilii or gluteal surface, the sub- scapular surface being represented by the sacral and the true pelvic surfaces of the ilium. (Humphry, Comparison of the Shoulder Bones and Muscles with the Pelvic Bones and Muscles," Journ. of Anat., vol. v. : see also Mivart, in Linn. Soc. Trans. 186G, and RoUeston, in the same, 1869). In the more developed forms of the scapula and ilium, in which the muscular fossee are of large extent, it is almost impossible to trace the relations now referred to ; but in the com- parison of the simple forms of these bones which belong to some animals with those of others throughout the series, resemblances are perceived which give to the views of Flower the greatest share of probability. In such simpler forms of scapula and ilium these bones may be described as three-sided prismatic rods, in which an internal surface is separated from two external surfaces by anterior and posterior ridges, and the two external surfaces are divided by an external ridge which descends from the dorsal extremity of the bones to the cavity of the joints. It is in this external ridge, glenoid in the scapula and cotyloid in the ilium, and vdiich includes in both the attachment of the great extensor muscle of the limb, that the key to the homologies of the bones is probably to be found. Further observations, especially on the disposition of the muscles, are necessary to determine this question satisfactorily. Bones of the Limbs.—In making the comparison of the bones composing the limbs themselves, it may be proper to re'N'ert to the simpler relations subsisting between the limbs and the trunk or vertebral axis of the body in earlier embrj^onic life, and to remind the reader that there is a determinate and similar position in which the elements of the limb-forming paii3S are developed from the side of the vertebral stem or trunk (Humphry). In the very earliest stage, while the embryo still occupies the prone position in the blastoderm, the limbs may be said to bud out laterally from the dorsal plates as flatfish semilunar flaps, so that they present a dorsal and a ventral surface, coinciding with these respective surfaces of the trunk : but in the next stage, when the limbs come to be folded against the body in the ventral direction, although the origmal relation to the trunk is undisturbed, their axes have now come to lie nearly perpendicularly to the transverse plane of the vertebral axis, and the position of the limbs is such that in each there is one border which looks towards the head, and another which looks