BO^^ES OF THE HEAD. 42 sions called the great tvings, a j)air of smaller horizontal processes in front, called the small luings, and a pair which project downwards, the pterygoid processes. The sphenoid is articulated with all the seven other bones of the cranium and with five of those of the face, viz., posteriorly with the occipital and with the petrous portions of the temporals, anteriorly with the ethmoid, frontal, and malars, laterally with the squamous portion of the temporals, the parietals and frontals, and inferiorly with the vomer and palate bones. The "body.—Posteriorly the body of the sphenoid is solid, but anteriorly it is hollowed out into two large cavities, the sphenoidal sinuses, separated by a thin mesial lamina and opening into the upper part of the nasal fossa by two rounded apertures. The suioerior surface presents in the middle a deep pit, the pituitary fossa,, or sella turcica^ which lodges the pituitary body. In front of the fossa, separated from it by a shallow transverse groove, is a narrow portion of bone on a level with the optic foramina, the olivary process, (tuberculum sellee—Henle), on which rests the commissure of the optic nerves; and in front of this is a surface on a slightly higher level, continuous with the superior surfaces of the small wings, and having a slight projection for- wards of its anterior border, which articulates w^ith the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, and is called the ethviioidctl spine. Behind the pituitary fossa is a prominent lamella, the dorsum sellce, the posterior surface of which is sloped upwards and forwards in continuation of the basilar groove of the occipital bone. The angles of this lamella project over the fossa, and are called the jwsterior clinoid processes. On each side of the body the surface descends obliquely to a considerably lower level than the fossa ; it presents close to the margin of the fossa a super- ficial curved groove directed from behind forwards, marking the course of the internal carotid artery. At the bottom of this groove, and in the angle between the body and the great wing, there projects the small ridge of bone termed Itngula splienoidalis. The posterior surface is flat, and is united to the basilar process of the occipital bone, in early life by cartilage, but in adult age by continuous bony substance. The anterior surface presents in the middle line the sphenoidal crest, a thin projecting edge which extends downwards from the ethmoidal spine and terminates in ihQ rostrum, a sharp bony prominence projecting vertically between the anterior and inferior surfaces. The sphenoidal crest articulates with the central plate of the ethmoid ; the rostrum is inserted between the alas of the vomer. The splioncidal spongy bones {cornua sphenoid^tlia, hones of Berlin) form a considerable part of the anterior wall of the body of the sphenoid, including the foramen of each sinus. These bones have a triangular form, with the apex directed downwards, and are in the adult usually incorporated with the sphenoid, but as explained in the account of their development, they are originally distinct. They are frequently united by earlier or stronger anchylosis with the ethmoid or palate bones, so as to come away, at least in part, with either of these in dis- articulation of the skull, and thus lay open the sphenoidal sinuses. A small portion of these bones sometimes appears on the inner wall of the orbit, between the ethmoid, frontal, sphenoid, and palate bones (Cleland in Trans, of Roy. Soc. for 18G2).