191 LATISSIMUS DOESI. Between the adjacent borders of tlie latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and rhom- boideus major, there is left, when the scapula is drawn forward, a triangular area in which a portion of one or two ribs and of an intercostal space becomes superficial ; this is taken advantage of for the purpose of auscultation. Fig. 165.—Deeper View of the J\ruSCLES OF THE TrUNK, Shoulder axd Hip. (x\fter Botir- gery.) (A. T.) i The trapezius, latissimus dorsi, deltoid, gkiteus maxinins and ex- ternal oblique muscles Lave been removed. The bones are lettered as in the preceding figure. 1, splenius capitis and splenius colli; 1', lower end of splenius colli ; 2, complexus near its inser- tion ; 3, levator anguli scapula ; 4, rliomboideus minor ; above it +, a part of the serratus posticus supe- rior ; 5, rhomboideus major; 6, j^art of the longissimns dorsi ; 6', part of the tendons of insertion of the sacro-lumbaHs ; 7, part of the spi- nalis dorsi ; 8, upper, and 8', lover part of the serratus posticus infe- rior ; 9, obliquus abdominis inter- nus ; 10, supraspinatus ; 11, infra- spinatus ; 12, placed upon the long head of the triceps, points to the teres minor ; 13, teres major ; 14, serratus magnus ; 15, gluteus medius ; 16, pyriformis ; 17, portion of the obturator internus ; -f and -f , superior and inferior gemeV.i ; 17', the intra-pelvic portion of oljturator internus ; 18, the tendon of the obtu- rator externus passing to its inser- tion ; 19, quadratus femoris ; 20, upper part of the adductor magnus. Varieties. — The number of dorsal vertebras to which the latissimus dorsi is attached varies from four to seven or eight, and the number of the costal attachments is also incon- stant, being frequently dimin- ished and more rarely increased. jMuscular bands {axillary arches) are som.etimes seen to stretch from the border of this muscle across the axilla to its anterior pari:, where they terminate various- ly, in the tendon of the greater pectoral, in the coraco-brachialis muscle, the biceps, or in the fascia. There is also occasion- ally a slip of attachment to the scapular part of the triceps. ^ig. 165.