THE ABSORBENT VESSELS. 503 sum and sole of the foot, the other from the outer. The inner vessels follow a similar course to that of the internal saphenous vein : passing partly in front and partly behind the inner ankle, they ascend along the inner side of the knee and front of the thigh, and terminate in the superficial inguinal glands. The outer vessels, ascending from the outer side of the foot, pass in great part obliquely across the popliteal space to join the inner set above the knee; in part they reach the inner set by crossing in front of the tibia; and a small number of them accompanying the external saphenous vein, dip down between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle, and end in the popliteal glands. Erom the middle line of the back of the thigh lymphatics pass round on both sides to reach the inguinal glands. (Mascagni, ^'Yasorum Lymph. Historia," 1787.) The deep-seated lymphatics of the lower limb are associated' in their whole course with the deep blood-vessels. In the leg they consist of three divisions, namely, anterior tibial, posterior tibial and peroneal. Neither these nor the superficial absorbents pass through any lymphatic gland in the leg, unless it be those lymphatics which accompany the anterior tibial artery, near which a small gland is sometimes found on the front of the interosseous ligament, above the middle of the leg. The several sets of deep lymphatics in the leg enter the lymphatic glands situated in the popliteal space. The efferent vessels from those glands are joined by other lymphatics in contact with the branches of the femoral artery, and enter the deep inguinal glands. Other deep lymphatics, derived from the muscles of the gluteal region, and many proceeding from the adductor muscles of the thigh, enter the cavity of the pelvis in company with the gluteal, sciatic, and obturator arteries, and pass through a series of glands situated in the neighbourhood of the internal and common iliac arteries. The superficial lymphatics of the lower half of the trunk con- verge to the superficial inguinal glands, the direction of some of them being indicated by the superficial circumflex iliac and epigastric, and the external pudic arteries. Externally they converge to the groin from the gluteal region and from the lower part of the back, those from the back crossing others which pass upwards to the axillary glands. Ante- riorly they descend from the greater part of the surface of the abdomen, crossing and mingling above the umbilicus with vessels which ascend towards the axillary glands. The superficial lymphatics of the penis usually form three vessels, two being placed at the sides and the other on the dorsum of; the organ. Commencing in the prepuce and beneath the mucous lining of the urethra, they pass backwards, unite on the dorsum penis, and, again subdividing, send branches on each side to the oblique inguinal glands. The deejj-seaied lymphatics of the penis pass under the pubic arch, and end in the glands on the internal iliac artery. The lymphatics of the scrotum pass to the superficial inguinal glands along the course of the external pudic arteries. The lymphatics of the external generative organs in the female _present a disposition similar to that existing in the male. LYMPHATICS OF THE ABDOMEN AISTD PELVIS. Tlie external iliao lymphatic glands, from six to ten or more in