THE HEPATIC ARTERY. 427 transverse fissure ; 6, gastro-duodenal artery ; 6', its continuation as the right gastro- epiploic ; 7, on the left crns of the diaphragm, the splenic artery ; 8, its left gastro- epiploic branch proceeding round the great curvature of the stomach to communicate with the right gastro-epiploic artery ; both of these vessels are seen giving long epiploic as tvell as gastric branches. The siqjerior lyanci'eatico-duodenal branch descends along- the inner margin of the duodenum, betv/een it and the pancreas, and, after furnishing- several branches to both these organs, anastomoses with the inferior pancreatico-duodenal from the superior mesenteric artery. (c) The ojstic artery, given off by the right hepatic when crossing behind the cystic duct, turns upwards and forwards upon the neck of the gall-bladder, and divides into two smaller branches, of which one ramifies between the coats on the depending surface, the other between the bladder and the liver. Varieties.—The hepatic arteiy sometimes arises from the superior mesenteric artery, or from the aorta itself. Accessory hepatic arteries are often met with, Fig. 277. Fig. 277.—Thb Arteries of the Stomach, Duodenum, Pancreas, and Spleen (from Tiedemann), ~ The stomach and liver are turned upwards so as to sliov,- their lower surface. The jejunum is divided at its commencement, a, lower surface of the right lobe of the liver ; 6, left lobe ; c, cardiac orifice of the stomach ; d, pylorus; e, first part, /, second or descending part, and third or lower part of the duodenum ; h, commencement of the jejunum emerging from behind the superior mesenteric artery ; the head, and ,1-, the body of the pancreas ; I, the spleen ; 1, 1, right and left inferior phrenic arteries passing from the aorta upon the crura of the diaphragm; 2, placed on the aorta close to the coeliac axis ; 3, 3', the coronary artery ; 4, common hepatic ; 4', its right branch ; 4", cystic branch ; 5, gastro-duodenal giving the inferior pyloric ; 5, on the great curvature of the stomach, the right gastro-epiploic ; 6, superior pancreatico-duodenal ; 7, common splenic ; 7', proper splenic ; 7", one of the vasa brevia to the stomach ; 8, 8, left gastro- epiploic artery uniting with the right on the great curvature of the stomach ; 9, trunk of the superior mesenteric artery, giving ofiF the inierior pancreatico-duodenal ; 10, inferior mesenteric.