MUSCLES OF THE FOOT, 257 digiti, and is covered by the plantar fascia. wLicli adlneres very closelv to tlie posterior part of its surface, and gives origin there to some of its fibres ; it conceals the flexor acce&sorius, with the tendons of ihe flexor longus digiioram. the lumbricales. and the plantar vessels and nerves. Varieties.—This muscle has been seen with only thi-ee tendons, that for the little toe being absent; or with five tendons, two to the second toe. The slip to the little toe frequently arises as a small fusifoi-rn muscle from the side of the long flexor tendon, or from the flexor accessorius : or it may arise by two heads, one from the long flexor, the other from the inner tubercle of the os calcis. The abductor poUicis pedis muscle arises from the inner part of the larger protuberance of the calcanenm, from the internal annular ligament and the tendinous and fibrous structures on the inner border of the foot as far forwards as the internal cuneiform bone, from the septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum, and from the plantar fascia covering it. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which, after uniting with the internal head of the flexor brevis pollicis, is inserted into the inner border of the base of the first phalanx of the gTeat toe. BeJations.—It is covered by the thin internal division of the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the tendons of the tibialis anticus and pos- ticus, and of the long flexor muscles, ^^-ith the flexor brevis poUicis. and vi.ih the plantar vessels and nen-es. Yai'ieties.—The abductor pollicis sometimes sends a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the second toe. Another slip is occasionally given to the sMn of the ball of the great toe. The abductor mininii digiti muscle has a wide origin behind, fi'om the front of both tubercles on the under surface of the os calcis, from the external intermuscular septum, and from the deep surface of the process of the plantar fascia which extends fi'om the external tubercle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The fleshy fibres end in a tendon, which after sliding along a smooth impression on the inferior surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, is inserted into the external stirface of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe. Belations.—This muscle is covered by the plantar fascia. Its deep surface is in contact with the external head of the flexor accessorius. the ligamentum longum plantce. the peroneus longus, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. Vainety.—The abductor ossis metatarsi minimi digiti is an occasional muscle which arises from the external tubercle of the os calcis, and is inserted into the spur-like process of the fifth metatarsal bone beneath the outer margta of the plantar fascia. It may be adherent to the abductor minimi digiti, and it has been seen mserted into the middle or even the anterior part of the metatarsal bone. It was first described as a human muscle by Wood, and it occurs nearly once in every two subjects. CWood, IMacalister.) The Secoxd Layer of Muscles.—The Sezor accessorius and the lumbricales muscles composing this layer, have been already described (p. 253) with the tendons of the long flexor muscles, with v>'hich they are intimately associated. The Teied Layer of Mfscles.—The fiescr "brevis pclHcis pedis arises by a flat tendinous process from the inner border of the cuboid bone and from the fibrous band sent to the cuneiform bones from the tendon of the tibialis posticus. The muscle is single and pointed behind, but m front it divides so as to form two muscular bellies which are inserted by tendons one into the inner border of the base of the first phahmx in union with the abductor pollicis, the other into the outer border m union with the adductor. VOL. 1. 8