EXTENSOE PEOPEIUS POLLICIS MUSCLE. 245 outer malleolus to the outer surface of the calcaneum, and keeps in place the tendons of the long and short peronei muscles. The tendons are close together, and are surrounded by one synovial sac. The dorsal fascia of the foot is reduced to a thin membrane pro- longed from the anterior annular ligament over the extensor tendons. Beneath it, deeper layers of fasciae are placed over the short extensor of the toes and the interossei muscles. Muscles.—Between the tibia and fibula, and on the front of the leg, are placed four muscles—the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius pollicis, extensor longus digitorum, and peroneus tertius ; and on the dorsum of the foot one muscle only arises,—the extensor brevis digitorum. The tibialis anticiis arises from the external tuberosity of the tibia, and about t\YO-thirds of the outer surface of that bone ; from a small portion of the adjoining interosseous ligament; from the strong fascia of the leg ; and from an aponeurotic septum placed between it and the extensor longus digitorum. The tendon glides in a synovial sheath beneath the anterior annular ligament, and is inserted into the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform and the contiguous extremity of the first metatarsal bone, dividing slightly into two slips as it descends. Relations.—This muscle is entirely covered by the aponeurosis of the leg. It rests upon the outer surface of the tibia, and the interosseous ligament. Its outer surface is in contact above with the extensor longus digitorum. and lower down with the extensor proprius poUicis ; it also conceals the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. Its tendon passes over the lower end of the tibia, the ankle- joint, and the inner surface of the tarsus. Varieties.—In cases of talipes the tendon of this muscle has been found split into two, one half going to the usual place of insertion, the other to the astra- galus or first metatarsal ; the whole tendon has also been seen inserted into the plantar fascia. The tibw-fasciaVis ant'icus is a small muscle described by Wood, arising from the lower third of the anterior edge of the tibia over the tibialis anticus and inserted into the annular ligament and deep tibial fascia. It may also exist as a tendinous slip from the tibialis anticus. The extensor proprius pollicis pedis muscle, or extensor hal- lucis, placed between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum, arises from the middle three-fifths of the anterior narrow part of the inner surface of the fibula, and from the contiguous portion of the interosseous ligament. Its tendon passes through a distinct compartment in the lower portion of the annular ligament in and along the dorsum of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the ter- minal phalanx of the great toe. A delicate expansion given off from the tendon on each side spreads over the joint between the metatarsal bone and the first phalanx. Rclatwiis.—This muscle is partly concealed by those between which it is placed. It lies external to the anterior tibial artery m the leg, but crosses in front of that vessel at the bend of the ankle, and is internal to it on the foot. Varieties.—The extensor ossis metatarsi xjollicis is a small muscle, sometimes found as a slip from the extensor proprius, or from the tibialis anticus. or from, the extensor communis digitorum ; or it may be a distinct muscle arising close to the extensor proprius, and traversing the same compartment of the annular ligament with that muscle. The extensor primi internodii pollicis, another occasional muscle is nearly always an offshoot from the extensor proprius, though it - has been fomid separate. It was seen by Wood in one half of the subjects examined by him.