INTEENAL BASE OF THE SKULL. 63 irregular digitate impressions corresponding to the convolutions of the brain. The thinnest portions of the cranial wall are the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the orbital plates of the frontal bone, in both of which the diploe is entirely absent; the bone is also thin and compact in the middle part of the inferior occipital fossa3, and in the squama and glenoid fossa of the temporal. The upper part of the cranial cavity consists of a single vaulted dome formed by the frontal, parietal, and occipital bones. It is marked by the superior longitudinal grooves, by shallow cerebral impressions, by small ramified meningeal grooves, and by Pacchionian fossse of varying depth. The lower part or internal lasis of the skull is divided into three fossae, named anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior fossa, formed by the orbital plates of the frontal bone, the small wing of the sphenoid, and the cribriform plate of the ethmoid, supports the anterior lobes of the brain. It sinks into a hollow at the Fig. 53. — Internal Basis of the Skull. (A. T.) h Fig. 53. 1, anterior fossa and roof of the orbit, as formed by the frontal bone, marked by im- pressions of cerebral convolutions ; between 2 and 3, the foramen cfficnm, crista galli and cribriform jjlate of eth- moid ; 3, ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid ; 4, lesser wing of sphe- noid terminating poste- riorly in the anterior clinoid process, inside which is the optic fora- men ; 5, placed in the pituitary fossa, behind the olivary eminence and transverse groove of the optic commissure ; 6, dorsum sellse, termina- ting in the posterior clinoid processes, and to the side of these' the groove of the internal carotid artery ; 7, fora- men rotundnm, in front of which, but not seen in the figure, is the foramen lacerum orbitale ; 8, foramen ovale ; 9, foramen spinosum ; 10, on the ridge of the petrous bone, near its apex, and to the inside of the hollow occupied by the Gasserian ganglion ; in front of this is the foramen lacerum medium ; 11, in front of the eminence of the superior semicircular canal of the labyrinth, and behind the hiatus Fallopii ; 12, the pro- minent ridge of the petrous bone, marked by the superior petrosal groove; 13, the posterior surface of the petrous bone—to the inside, the meatus auditorius internus, behind, the scale of bone covering the aqueduct of the vestibule ; 14, basilar groove ; 15, anterior condylar foramen ; 16, jugular part of the foramen lacerum postering ; 17, groove of the lateral sinus ; 18, internal occipital protuberance, and running down from it the internal occipital spine ; between 17 and 18, the upper part of the groove of the lateral sinus, between 17 and 16, the lower part ; 19, cerebellar fossa.