81 EOXES OF THE UPPER LIMB. ^' On Synostotic Crania," 1<S65 ; W. Turner, " On Cranial Deformities," in IsTat. Hist. Eeyiew, 186-1.) Another series of irreg-ular forms of skull is that produced by pressure artificially applied in early life, and is best exemplified from among those American tribes who compress the heads of their children by means of an apparatus of boards and bandages : it is also illustrated in a slighter degree l}y individual instances in which undue pressure has been employed unintentionally, (G-osse, " Essai sur les Deformations artificielles du Crane," 1855.) Posthumous distortions likewise occur in long-buried skulls, subjected to the combined influence of pressure and moistui-e. (Wilson, " Prehistoric Annals of Scotland.") IV.—BOMES OF THE UPPEB LIMB. The upper limb consists of tlie shoulder, the arm, hracldum, the forearm, antWrachium, and the hand, maniis. The bones of the shoulder are the scapula and clavicle, which together form the pectoral arch or shoulder girdle; in the arm is the humerus ; in the forearm are the radius and ulna; and in the hand three groups of bones, the carpus, metacarpus, and digital phalanges. SCAPULA. This bone is placed upon the upper and back part of the thorax, occupies the space from the second to the seventh rib, and forms the posterior part of the shoulder-girdle. It is not attached directly to the trunk, but is articulated with the outer end of the clavicle, and from it is suspended the humerus in the shoulder-joint. It is an irregular flat bone of a triangular form, its surfaces are anterior and posterior, its borders superior, internal, and external, and its angles superior, inferior, and external. The anierior surface presents a shallow^ concavity, the fossa suiscapu- Juris or venter, occupied by the subscapularis muscle, and marked by regular prominent lines converging upwards and outwards, which give attachment to the tendinous intersections of that muscle. Separated from this concavity, there are several smaller flat spaces; one is a triangular surface in front of the superior angle, another is a smaller surface at the inferior angle, and these, together with a rough line running close to the posterior border and uniting them, give attach- ment to the serratus magnus muscle. The posterior surface or dorsum is divided by the spine into two unequal parts, the superior and smaller of which is called fossa supra- spinata, the inferior fossa infraspinata. The supraspinous fossa is occupied by the supraspinatus muscle. The infraspinous fossa, much larger than the preceding, presents in the middle a convexity cor- responding to the concavity of the venter, and outside this a con- cavity bounded by the prominent external border. It is marked near the inner border by short lines, corresponding to tendinous septa of the infraspinatus muscle, and is occupied by that muscle in the greater part of its extent. Adjacent to the external border, in its middle third, is a narrow interval giving attachment to the teres minor muscle ; and beneath this, extending over the inferior angle, is a raised oval surface, from which the teres major arises. These spaces are separated from that of the infraspinatus muscle by a rough line, which gives attach- ment to an aponeurotic septum. VOL. I. a