MUSCLES OF THE LOWER LIMB. 242 inserted into the lower part of the linea quadrati, and into the line prolonGfed from the linea aspera to the great trochanter ; others pass Tvith increasing degrees of obliquity downwards and outwards, to be inserted into the whole length Fig. 190. of the linea aspera, and into the line prolonged from it to the inner condyle for about an inch ; finally, the posterior fibres which arise from the ischial tuberosity, descend almost vertically, form- ing the inner border of the mus- cle, and terminate in a narrow tendon, which is inserted into the tuberosity of the inner con- dyle of the femm\ Fig. 190.—Muscles of the Inner Side of the Thigh and Inteiuoe, OP THE Pelvis. (A. T.) i 1, iliacus ; 2, psoas magnus ; 3, ob- turatoi' internus, with its fibres con- verging towards the lesser sciatic fora- men ; 4, pyriformis, with three heads of origin, and its fibres converging to- wards the great sciatic foramen ; 5, lumbar aponeurosis covering the erector spinso muscle ; 6, gluteus niaximus ; 7, sartorius, 7', its tendon inserted below the tuberosity of the tibia; 8, adductor longus ; 9, gracilis, 9', its in- sertion passing below that of the sar- torius ; 10, part of the adductor mag- nus ; 11, semimembranosus; 12, semi- tendinosus, 12', its insertion, and be- tween 9' and 12', the tendon of the semimembranosus passing to its inser- tion in the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Along the femoral attachment the insertion is interrupted by three or more tendinous arches through which pass the per- forating arteries, and below the level of the inferior bifurcation of the linea aspera, between the tendinous and fleshy portions of the insertion of the muscle, an interval is left for the trans- mission of the femoral vessels backwards into the popliteal space. Extending upwards from the opening for the femoral ves- sels, is an aponeurotic membrane which consists of transverse fibres passing from the surface of the vastus internus to the adductor magnus and adductor longus muscles. It becomes thinner as it ascends, and encloses a three-sided passage called Himter's canals which contains