FLEXOR PEOFUXDUS. LU:\[BEICALES. 213 The fie-xor profundus digitornni, or flexor perforans, a large and • thick muscle, arises from the hollow at the inner side of the olecranon ^ from the inner and anterior surfaces of the ulna for three-fourths of its length; from the ulnar half of the inter- osseous ligament for the same distance; Fig. 175. and from the aponeurosis attaching the flexor carpi ulnaris to the ulna. It divides inferiorlj into four tendons, only one of which, that for the index finger, is distinct from the others above the vvTist—the rest being connected together as far as the palm. In the palm the tendons, as they diverge, give origin to the lumbricales mniscles. In front of the fingers they are bound to the first and second phalanges in the sheath common to them with the per- forated tendons by the vaginal ligaments. Opposite the first phalanx, the tendon of each fiDger passes through the opening formed for its transmission in the tendon of the flexor sublimis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Fig. 175.—Deep Axteeior Muscles of the FOKEAHJI. (A. T.) J The superficial muscles of tlie forearm and hand, together with the lumbricales, have been removed, and the place of the anterior annular ligament of the carpus is marked by two dotted lines. «, surface of the humerus above the coronoid fossa ; h, rough sur- face of the ulna, into which the brachialis anticus is inserted ; c, head of the radius covered by the orbicu- lar ligament, and between this and a, the anterior ligament of the elbow-joint; +, the internal lateral ligament; d, the lower end of the radius ; e, that of the ulna ; /, the scaphoid and trapezium bones ; 1, supinator radii brevis ; 2, flexor longus poUicis ; 3, flexor digitorum profundus ; 3', its four tendons, where they are about to pass under the annular liga- ment ; 4, pronator quadratus on the lower part of the radius; 5, deep head of flexor brevis poUicis ; 6, ad- ductor pollicis ; 7, first dorsal interosseous muscle ; 8, in the second space, is placed between the first palmar and the second dorsal interosseous muscles ; in the third space, between the third dorsal and the second palmar ; in the fourth space, between the fourth dorsal and the third palmar. (For the lumbri- cales muscles, see Figs. 174 and 180.) Bi'latIons—The upper extremity of this muscle embraces the insertion of the brachialis anticus. On its surface lie the median nerve and the ulnar artery and nerve. The external border is parallel with the flexor long-us pollicis. from which it is separated, on the interosseous membrane, by the anterior interosseous vessels and nerve. The tendons are covered by the synovial sacs, which have been men- tioned in connection with the flexor sublimis. The lumbricales muscles are four tapering fieshv fasciculi, passing^ from the tendons of the flexor profundus to the first digital phalanges. Each_^muscle rises by fleshy fibres from the outer or radfal border of one