376 AETERIES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. arteries having furnished branches to the ethmoidal cells, enter the skull, supply the adjacent dura mater, and send branches through the cribriform lamella to the nose. Fig. 253. Fig. 253.—Semidiagrammatic View of the Arteries of the Orbit and neighbour- ing PARTS, with their BRANCHES AND ANASTOMOSES (founded OIL Hiischfeld and Leveille, with additions). (A. T.) The outer wall of the orbit has been removed, the sinus maxillaris is laid open, the eyelids are turned forwards, and the external and superior recti, and the superior oblique muscles have been partially removed, a, optic nerve ; h, hook, holding up the posterior part of the superior rectus muscle, the anterior part of which is left attached to the eyeball; c, lachrymal gland, thrown up on the frontal bone ; d, insertion of the inferior oblique muscle ; e, inferior rectus ; /, /, anterior and posterior portions of the divided external rectus ; g, maxillary sinus ; h, hook, holding up the eyelids, of which the deep surface is exhibited. I, internal carotid artery below the inferior aperture of the carotid canal of the temporal bone, which is indicated higher up by a ring surrounding the artery ; 1', the part of the artery situated within the temporal bone, a second ring indicating the place of the upper aperture of the temporal canal ; 1", the part of the artery situated on the sphenoid bone ; upon this artery, 1, twig to the mastoid cells and tympanum ; 2, twigs in the cavernous sinus ; 3, communicating branches to the posterior cerebral ; 4, middle cerebral; 5, anterior cerebral. II, basilar artery ; upon this artery, 6, posterior cerebral ; 7, superior cerebellar : the accented numbers, 2>', 4', 5', 6', 7', indicate, on the left side, the arteries already named tinder the same numbers on the right side, and with these and the anterior communicating branch marked by +, complete the Circle of Willis. III, upper part of the external carotid artery dividing into III x, the superficial temporal, and III', III", the internal maxillary artery ; upon the latter artery, 1, inferior dental branch ; 2, middle meningeal ; 3, 3, masseteric and pterygoid branches ; 4, buccal; 5, 5, anterior and posterior deep temporal ; 6, posterior superior dental ; 7, infraorbital; 7', branches of the same issuing upon the face; 8, part of the internal maxillary, which passes into the spheno-maxillary fossa. IV, facial artery, terminating at 11, in the angular, and giving off, at 12, the lateral nasal branches, and others which communicate with the infraorbital. In the orbit the following numbers indicate the ophthalmic artery and its branches : 1,