377 CEEEBEAL ARTEKIES. vertebral arteries ; 10, posterior inferior cerebellar arteries ; 11, anterior spinal arteries. the ophthalmic artery at its origin from the internal carotid ; V, the same artery con- tinued on the upper and inner side of the orbit ; 2, lachrymal branch ; 3, central artery of the retina ; 4, some of the ciliary arteries ; 5, 5, upper and lower muscular branches ; 6, supraorbital ; 7, 7', posterior and anterior ethmoidal arteries ; 8, palpebral ; 8', 8", its superior and inferior divisions; 9, frontal; 10, nasal, communicating with the angular of the facial. (g) The two ])alj)ehral branches, snperioi' and inferior, arise near the front of the orbit, usually together, but soon diverge, one lying above, the other below the tendon of the or-bicularis muscle at the inner angle of the eye ; they form arches, one in each lid, which lie between the orbicularis muscle and tarsal car- tilage, and send branches to the caruncula lachrymalis and the lachrymal sac. (A) The nasal branch courses forwards above the tendon of the orbicularis muscle to the root of the nose, where it ramifies, maintaining a free communi- cation with the nasal and angular branches of the facial artery. (/) The frontal branch runs close to the preceding, but on reaching the margin of the orbit turns upwards on the forehead, where it anastomoses with the supra- orbital artery. 2. Cerebral Arteries.—The terminal branches of the internal Fig. 254.—View of the Distribution of the Branches of the In- ternal Carotid and Vertebral Arteries to the lower parts of THE Brain (altered from Hirschfeld and Leveilld). (A. T.) i On the left side of the brain a portion of the middle lobe of the cere- brum has been removed so as to open up the fissure of Sylvius and expose the convolutions of the island of Eeil ; and the left half of the cerebellum has been removed to show the lower surface of the posterior cerebral lobe. 1, placed on the optic commissure, points to the divided stem of the left internal carotid artery where its cerebral distribution begins ; 2, anterior cerebral branch, exposed fully by the re- moval of a jjortion of the left optic nerve ; 2', placed on the knee or anterior bend of the corpus callo- sum between its two arteries ; x, placed on the lamina cinerea in front of the optic commissure, marks the anterior communicating artery ; 3, middle cerebral artery, passing into the fissure of Sylvius and distributing its branches over the convolutions of the island of Heil and others beyond ; 4, placed between the infundibulum and the corpora albicantia, points by a line to the left posterior communicating artery ; 5, basilar artery ; 6, posterior cerebral artery, its distribution exposed on the left side by the removal of half of the cerebellum ; 7, placed on the pons Varolii, points to the right superior cerebellar artery ; 8, anterior inferior cerebellar artery ; between 7, and 8, one of the largest of the transverse branches of the basilar artery ; 9, 9, right and left Fig. 254.