VOL. I. D OCCIPITAL BONE. S3 temporal bone, while the extremity of its basilar process is united to the body of the sphenoid, in the young condition by cartilage, but after the age of twenty years by continuous osseous substance. The rhom- boidal form generally given by the meeting of these borders at the four angles is not unfrequently somewhat changed to the octagonal, by the greater or less projection of subordinate obtuse angles between the upper and lateral, and between the lateral and lower angles. The tabular portion, or supra-occipital, on its posterior surface presents a rough prominence, the external occipital 2irotul)erance, arching outwards from which, on each side, is the superior occipital ridge or curved Une^ which divides the surface into two parts, the upper, covered by the hairy scalp, convex and uniform; the lower, uneven, and marked by the impressions of the muscles of the neck w^hich are attached to it. This lower surface is divided into two lateral portions by a median ridge called the external occipital crest or spines and each of these por- tions is again divided into an upper and a lower surface by the inferior curved line or ridge, which, after extending some distance outwards, is met by a ridge and groove passing from before backwards. These sur- faces mark the attachments of the rectus capitis posticus major and minor, and of the obliquus capitis superior muscles. The deep surface of the bone is marked by two smooth ridges which cross one another, one extending from the upper angle to the great foramen, and the other transversely from one lateral angle to the other, and at the point of intersection of these ridges is the internal occipital protuberance. Separated by these riclges are four hollows, the superior and inferior occipital fossce, which lodge respectively the posterior cere- bral and the cerebellar lobes. The superior and transverse ridges are grooved in the course of the longitudinal and lateral venous sinuses respectively. The wider space where those grooves meet at the internal occipital protuberance receives the torcular Herophili. The inferior ridge is single, and is named the internal occipital crest or spine. The margins of the tabular portion are deeply serrated above the lateral angles for articulation with the parietal bones ; below that level, they unite with the mastoid portions of the temporal bones. The condylar portions or ex-occipitals, bear the articulating condyles on their lower part, close to the margin of the foramen mag- num in its anterior half. The condyles are elliptical and converge in front : their surfaces are convex from behind forwards and from side to side, and slightly everted. Their inner borders are rough, and receive the insertion of the odontoid ligaments of the axis. In front, and to the inside of the condyles, are the anterior condyloid foramina, which pass forwards and outwards from the interior of the cranium, and transmit the hypoglossal nerves. Behind the condyles are two pits, containing usually the posterior condyloid foramina ; each of these gives passage to a vein, but they vary greatly in size and are often absent on one or both sides. Externally to the condyle, on each side, is a portion of bone, which is placed over the transverse process of the atlas, continuous posteriorly with the tabular part, and anteriorly hav- ing a free excavated margin, the.jugular notch, which contributes, with a notch in the temporal bone, to form the foramen lacerwn jugulare ; its external extremity projects into the angle between the mastoid and petrous portions of the temporal bone, and is called jugular eminence. This process presents inferiorly a rough elevation, which gives attach-