THE AZYGOS VEINS. 491 the pleura It is joined by the several veins which accompany the aortic iuiercostal arteries of the light side ; and, at about the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra, by the left or smaller azygos vein. It is also joined by several oesophageal and other small veins, and near its termination by the bronchial vein of the right lung; and it is generally connected v/ith the right superior intercostal vein. As it communicates below with the vena cava inferior through one of the branches of that large vein, while it terminates above in the vena cava superior, it forms a connection between those two vessels. A few valves of imperfect formation have been found in the azygos vein ; its branches (intercostal veins) are provided with distinct valves. On the left side of the chest the veins of the three or four upper intercostal spaces are usually united into one trunk, forming the left superior intercostal vein, which (as already mentioned) is most fre- quently united with the left innominate vein, but sometim.es is connected with the main azygos vein. Of the remaining left intercostal veins, one or two, generally about the fifth and sixth, pass directly into the azygos ; while the lowest in greater number unite almost constantly into one trunk, forming the left or small azygos, which crosses to join the main azygos in the neighbourhood of the seventh dorsal vertebra. There is frequently union between these three sets of veins or their intercostal branches, so that a part of one may be replaced by another, and the relative size of the veins may be subject to considerable variation. The left lower or small asygos vein (vena hemiazygos) commences from one of the lumbar veins (ascending lumbar), or from the left renal vein, and, having entered the thorax with the aorta, or through the left crus of the diaphragm, ascends upon the spine in front of the left inter- costal arteries, receiving the lower intercostal veins of the left side ; and passing i)ehind the aorta, it opens into the right azygos vein, opposite the sixth or seventh dorsal vertebra. Varieties.—The azyg'os vein has been seen to receive the lower vena cava, and, in such cases, is of course extremely large. An example of this variety exists, in the Anatomical Museum of Glasgow University. In one instance, Meckel found the azygos ending in the subclavian vein. All the intercostal veins of the left side have been observed in some instances to join a single vein, which ended in the left innominate ; the arrangement cor- responding- with that on the right side of the body. The bronchial veins return the blood employed in the nutrition of the lungs. Their course corresponds with that of the bronchi, which support them as they pass towards the root of the lungs. The bron- chial vein of the right side opens into the trunk of the azygos vein near its termination, that of the opposite side ends in the superior intercostal vein. VEms OF THE SPIKE. The spinal veins form plexuses of closely anastomosing vessels along the whole length of the spinal column. They have no valves. The veins within and upon the spinal column may be distinguished into the following sets : a. The dorsal, placed deeply in the vertebral grooves, and resting upon the spines and arches of the vertebra : 6. The veins lodged witliin the bodies of the vertebrae : c. The anterior longitudinal, two long series of veins, or rather venous plexuses, extend