ARTERIES OF THE ABDOMEN. 428 usuall}' coming from the coronary artery of the stomach. The hepatic artery has been found to furnish a phrenic branch. 3. The splenic artery, in the adulfc the largest branch of the coeliac axis, supplies the spleen, and in part the stomach and pancreas. It is directed horizontally towards the left side. Waving and often tor- tuous in its course, it passes, together with the splenic vein which is below it, behind the upper border of the pancreas, and divides near the spleen into several branches. The largest of these enter the fissure in that organ, and are distributed to its substance ; three or four are reflected towards the bulging end of the stomach, upon which they ramify. Branclies.—{a) Pancreatic branches, variable in size and number, are given off whilst the artery is passing along the pancreas, the middle and left part of which they supply with vessels. One of larger size not unfrequently runs from left to right in the direction of the pancreatic duct, and is called j^ancreatica, mar/na. (Ji) The splenic branches are the proper terminal branches of the artery ; they are five or six, or even more, in number, and vary in length and size ; they enter the spleen by the hilus or fissure in its concave surface, and ramify within that organ. (c) The short (jastric branches {vasa Irevia) vary from five to seven in number; they are directed from left to right, some issuing from the trunk of the splenic artery, others from its terminal branches : they reach the left extremity of the stomach, v^rhere they divide and spread out between the coats, communicating with the coronary and left gastro-epiploic arteries. {(1) The left gastro-einploic artery runs from left to right along the great cur- vatui-e of the stomach, supplying branches to both surfaces of the stomach and to the omentum on the left side, and inosculates with the right gastro-epiploic branch from the hepatic artery. The superior meseiiteiic, an artery of large size, supplies the whole of the small intestine beyond the duodenum, and half of the great intestine. It arises from the fore part of the aorta, a little below thN3 coeliac axis. For a short space this artery is covered by the pancreas; on emerging from below that gland it descends in front of the duo- denum near the end, and is thence continued between the layers of the mesentery. The splenic vein crosses over its root. In the mesentery the artery at first passes downwards and to the left side, but afterwards turns towards the right iliac fossa, opposite to which it inosculates with its own ileo-colic branch. Bkanches.—{a) The inferior jxincreatico-cliiodenalj given off under cover of the pancreas, runs along the concave border of the duodenum, and joins with the superior pancreatico-duodenal artery. {h) The rami intestini temds, or intestinal branches, supplying the jejunum and ileum, spring from the convex or left side of the vessel. They are usually twelve or more in number, and are all included be- tween the layers of the mesentery. They run parallel to one another for some distance, and then divide into two branches, each of which forms an arch with the neighbouring branch. From the first set of arches, other branches issue, which divide and communicate in the same way, until finally, after forming four or five such tiers of arches, each smaller than the other, the ultimate divisions of the vessels pro- ceed directly to the intestine, spreading upon both sides, and ramifying in its coats.