616 NERVES OF THE LOWER LIMB. Fig. 377. i. The musmlar dranclws are given off under cover of the biceps muscle ; they supply the flexors of the leg, viz., the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembra- nosus. A branch is likewise given to the adductor magnus. Internal Popliteal Herve.—The internal popliteal nerve, the larger of the two divisions of the great sciatic nerve, following the same direction as the parent trunk, continues along the middle of the popliteal space to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, beneath which point the continuation of the trunk receives the name of posterior tibial. The in- ternal popliteal nerve lies at first at a consider- able distance from the popliteal artery, at the outer side and nearer to the surface ; but, from the knee-joint downwards, the nerve, continuing a straight course, is close behind the artery, and then crosses it rather to the inner side. Fig. 377.—Posterior Cutaneous Nerves op the Leq (from Sappey after Hirschfeld and Leveille), 1, internal popliteal division of the great sciatic nerve; 2, branch to the internal part of the gastrocnemius muscle ; 3, 4, branches to the external pai't and plan- taris; 5, communicating branch to the external saphe- nous nerve ; 6, external popliteal nerve ; 7, cutaneous branch; 8, communicating branch descending to unite with that from the internal popliteal in, 9, the external saphenous nerve ; 10, calcaneal branch from this nerve ; 11, calcaneal and plantar cutaneous branches from the posterior tibial nerve ; 12, internal saphenous nerve ; 13, posterior branches of this nerve. Bkaxches.—The internal popliteal nerve supplies branches to the knee-joint and to the muscles of the calf of the leg, and also part of a cutaneous branch, the external or short saphenous nerve. Articular Nerves.—The articular hrancJies are generally three in number ; two of these accompany the upper and lower articular arteries of the inner side of the knee-joint, the third follows the middle or azygos artery. These nerves pierce the liga- mentous tissue of the joint.—The upper one is often wanting. Muscular Branches.—The muscular branches of the internal popliteal nerve arise behind the knee-joint, while the nerve is between the heads of the gastrocnemius muscle. a. The nerves to the gastrocnemms consist of two branches, which separate, one to supply each part of the muscle. h. The small nerve of the i)lantaris muscle is derived from the outer of the branches just described, or directly from the main trunk (internal popliteal). G. The solens receives a branch of considerable size, which enters the muscle on the posterior aspect after descending to it in front of the gastrocnemius. d. The nc<rve of the j^oplitens muscle lies deeper than the preceding branches, and arises somewhat below the joint; it descends along the outer side of the popliteal vessels, and, after tm-ning beneath the lower border of the muscle, enters the deep or anterior surface.