SALES of EFFECTS, in Town or Country, By Public Auction, or by Private Contract, Appraisements in general, Libraries and Cabinets methodized and digefted 5 Undertaken upon the moft liberal Plan, and executed with the utmoft Attention and Propriety, upon reafonable Terms, By SAMUEL PATERSON, No. 6. King-Street, Covent-Garden, London. A CATALOGUE OF THE CURIOUS Anatomical Preparations, o F A GENTLEMAN, » (Gone to the Wzfl Indies.) Which will be fold by AUCTION, By Mr. PATERSON, At his Great Room, N° 6. in King-Street, Covent-Gardeny London, On Saturday the 26th of May 1781. To begin precifely at half paft Five o’clock. To be viewed on Thurfday the 24th Inftant, and to the Time of Sale. Catalogues may be had gratis at the Place of Sale. CONDITIONS of SALE as ufual.Saturday Evening, May 26, 1781. Anatomical Preparations. / 0 /8n0 -/ 6n 0 - /q.,6 't: I tj’-f ° /S"ty a ttfctr C fr.. & S~ 6r Jf>> v 2- tf- p- 6 A,to /i ,f Is <f Lot 1 / Male fubjedl, 2 feet 4 inches high, injedled for arte- ries and veins, the heart in fituation, the coronary veins, vena cava, and jugular veins filled *1 A fubjedl injedled for arteries and veins, 4 feet high a,2 A female fubjedt, 19 inches high, injedled for arteries, the mefenteric arteries and heart in fituation ——. 3 A male fubjedt, 2 feet 6 inches, injedled as before _ _4 A capital male fubjedt, 2 feet 4 inches, ditto 5 An arm, the arteries very minutely injedled t> Ditto, the arteries injedled _ ^ 7 Ditto, the arteries well injedled 8 Ditto, the arteries and veins injedled, finely Ihews the deep feated arch Ditto, the arteries and veins injedled Ditto, the veins and arteries, the latter well traced in the hand A pelvis injedled, arteries and veins, the penis in its fitua- tion, the vena magna feen analiomafing with the vena faphcena very curioufly A ilcmach, the veins and arteries injedled A large penis A ditto, fmaller 15 A fmall one, the dorfal veins finely feen -16 A whole fet of foetal fmall inteltines, injedled for arteries, blown and dried 17 A foetal llomach, very finely injedled, and a portion of in- teiline injedled, arteries and veins 18 A ftcmach and ccecum dried to fhew the valve, with a por- tion of inteftines 19 Ditto 20 An adult heart, injedled .fZl A heart, ditto ' ur,h 21 An adult ditto 2? A 9 10 11 1 z '3 H /O tty* £