7 Modes of Ojyeratinrj.—Ist. Tlie patient is placed upon Lis back, and tlie foot rotated moderately inwards. The surgeon recoo-niscs the exact situation of the articulation by the rules already laid down, and then grasps, Avith the palm of his left hand, the sole of the foot, his thumb being placed on the outer side of the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone, and the index finger at the internal extremity of the articulation. He then makes a semidunar incision Avith its convexity looking downwards, from without inwards, across the dorsum of the foot, passing about half an inch below the articulation, and extcndino; from one of its extremities to the other down to the bones. 2d. The surgeon divides, Avith tlie point of his knife, the dorsal ligaments, carrying it along the line of the articulation from without inwards, as already indicated, and recollecting that the articulation of the second metatarsal lies a third of an inch posterior to the others. 3d. The mortise in which the head of the second metatarsal is inclosed remains to be opened. This is effected by intro- ducing the point of the knife between the internal cuneiform and the head of the fi.rst metatarsal bone, its edge being turned upAvards, and making an angle of 45'^ Avith the axis of the foot. The knife is then carried up to a right angle, its point travers- ing the Avhole of the inner surface of the mortise, in order to insure the division of the interosseous ligament; it is then Avith- draAvn, and applied to the external surface of the mortise. ■ith. When this has been accomplished, pi-essure is made upon the metatarsus to separate the articular surfaces, and their remaining ligamentous attachments are successively divided, especially those on the plantar aspect of the articulation, so that the knife may be carried readily beneath the heads of the nu'tatarsal liones, and the operation is then finished by cuttuig out a fiap from the sole of the foot, Avliich should be somewhat larger at its internal than at its external part."'^' * Tlio operation nbove d<.-scribcd is generally known in lliis country as Linfrunes