27 Sanitary liegulatlons for Soldiers ujyon Transports.— 2d. sanitary P, , . , 1 government of rcvious to embarkation upon ontward voyages, tliere sowiers upon should be an inspection to prevent any infectious or other """^p"' important disease from being brought on board, and every man should be vaccinated, or exhibit evidence of previous imporianGe of T ^ ^ • • ^ t it i'^ preliminary in- vaccmation. In embarking sick and wounded men, the spectiou: vacdn- . •1111 • f alien. same vigilant caution should be exercised to exclude infec- tious diseases from the transport: and when any infectious importance of ' •' separate trana- maladv must be transported by water, a special compart-pt"if^''o''fo.''j"^- ■ J- J- tients with infec- ment, or an entire ship, should lie provided exclusively for """^ maladies, that purpose. The practical importance of these rules cannot be over estimated when typhus and hospital gan- grene are rife. The question as to which part of a trans- port should be selected for the isolation of infectious cases section of a 111 •iiTn-> 1 transport best of disease, may best be determined by the onicers m charo-e. adapted for "sick ■' ^ ^ bay" or liospital. Dr. Eobert Jackson recommends the section under the bows of the ship ; and, in a sailing vessel, that may be best; but in transports, propelled by steam, the stern of the ship is probably best. It is particularly important that the sick- bay or hospital have a separate gangway, and ready access to the galley ; also, that it be furnished with a portable culinary apparatus, and with air-tight close stools. And especially must the sick-bay have independent and ample means of ventilation, and be suitably lighted. Personal vuai import- cleanliness, and rigid sanitary police, in all that affects cip'ifne'and"'sa^ni- personal habits, clothing, diet, and exercise, are so pc- '^'^ cnliarly important on shipboard, that all regulations and penalties relating to this subject, should be rigidly enforced. Anv inattention to these things, on the part of medical Periis of reiax- r,.' 1 1- 1 f -i- 1 V ing such authori- oflicers, and any letting doMMi ot military and police an- ty. tliority, might prove more fatal than the casualties of a battle-field. The special management of the sources of in- fection, whether they be indigenous, or introduced, upon transports, should conform to the principles that have been stated in the former part of this paper; and it is vitally im- The sanitary 1 ■, 1 , I n ^ ^^ I. ^ • nianiigenient of portant that there should be the greatest fidelity and vig- transports^ j^e- ilaiice in the supervision and execution of all the details of exact application 1 . 1 • T? • 11 t. ^^ of hygienic linow- sanitary regulations lor this purpose. J^.specially must the ledge. most scrupulous cleanliness of the men and their clothing,