TYPJUrs KKVEi; 11 (lelii'ium treiiiens, willi soiuetimcs coolness of surl'acc pro- fuse sweating, tenninatiug, at a varial)Ie period between the twelftli and twentietli day, often earlier, rarely later, in death. Causks.—Our knowledge of its efficient causes is lindted and in:iperfect. Among the circumstances most frerpiently associated ^ ith its appearance, are the crowding together of persons in dark, damp, badly ventilated apartments, coupled with anxiety, fat'igue, want, deprivation, and misery. The very intimate connection of typhus with crowded and confined apartments, where the excretions and filth is allowed to accu- mulate, has been universally adnutted ; hence the disease has often made its appearance in camps, ships, hospitals, and gar- risoned towns. " This is the pestilence which dogs the footsteps of retreating and discomforted armies, and takes np its dwell- ing in their tents,—which hides itself within the noisomowalls of ancient prisons.'' Its history shows it to be often dependent upon that nnknoAvn influence, or combination of inflnences, to which the term epidemic has been applied. And when once engendered, Ironi whatever cause, it has been almost univer- sally regarded by those whose opportunities have best fitted them to know, as capable of direct transmission by contagion. Yet the disease must not be held as contagious in the same sense that smallpox is contagious, viz. : that it is invariably and virulently so. Certainly the sphere of action is more limited, the communication of the poison more dependent on circumstances, and the morbific influences more within the control of sanitary laws and regulations than in the usual zymo- tic, or so called contagious maladies. It may be stated in general terms that the contagion, to be efl^ectual, must be con- ' centrated by the crowding together of patients, or accumulated and aggravated in ill-ventilated and pent-up rooms, or stimu- lated by the conjunction of other Tinfavorable hygeine condi tions, ill-drainage, filth, eflluvia, &e., &c., or the recipient have been previously subjected to the predisposing causes, by de- privation, hardship, and waid, excesses, anxiety, fear, despon- dency, mental and physical exhaustion, or debility from any