11 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. Stick was passed through under the outer turn only, that is, under the knot and over the stone. The arrangement was then tight- ened by twisting with the stick. In another form the stone was enclosed in the center of a shawl or large handkerchief, which was folded diagonally and passed twice around the limb, and the free corners then knotted over the stone. Torsion was then made with a stick. In the early part of the last century, Petit, a French surgeon, improved these simple devices by adding a screw, with which to force the pad down upon the artery, thus giving to the instrument the form in which it is now most frequently used. In his Tour- niquet, the apparatus for tightening the band consists of two plates, which are placed over the artery, and separated by means of a screw. Since the time of Petit, there have been suggested various modifications in the form of the instrument, such as making the band of a hoop of iron or brass, to relieve from pressure the sides of the limb; giving the threads of the screw a steep inclination, to secure rapidity of action; or making the threads of the screw to wind in opposite directions on different portions of the same spindle, to attain the same result: but, in the main features, all these instruments are essentially the same. But, however desirable the screw and plates may be as an ap- paratus for tightening the band, they are not always to be obtained. Their weight and bulk, and complicated nature, operate to pre- Tent their presence on the field of battle, and thus to limit their use to the practice of medical men. And the objection to the French Tourniquet is, that its appli- cation requires the assistance of a second person, while, for mili- tary and naval purposes, the instrument which can be applied by the wounded man himself must ever have the preference. To meet these special requirements, a number of instruments have been contrived in different countries. That of Dr. Lambert, of this country, is very good; but the one invented by my son. Dr. Alexander B. Mott, is more simple in construction, more neat, and compact, and portable, and is the one we prefer. It is emi- nently fitted for military and naval practice, and well adapted to the walks of private life.