10 9tli. Among exciting causes, we recognise, exposure to the out-door air, between sunset and sunrise; long continued expo- sure to direct insolation, at higli temperature ; exposure to cold, whilst the body is warm, and the skin active ; fatigue; excessive indulgence of any kind, especially in intoxicating beverages. 10th. Of all diseases known, intermittent fever is, more than any other, apt to be characterized by a tendency to repeat itself many times, in the same subject. After having been once cured, there is a powerful disposition to recur on the seventh day, or on some day represented by a multiple of seven—dating from the last paroxysm. ilth. The disease has a natural tendency, when undisturbed by treatment, to terminate a.t very uncertain periods—some- times lasting only a week, at others, four or five months. All kinds of malarious fever have a tendency, when long continued, to produce certain lesions (if innervation and visceral disease, especially of the liver and spleen, and te interfere with the function of hsematosis. From derangements of the latter, with the accompanying debility and liydrsemia, it is not uncommon to find dropsical affections of the lower extremities. In the experience of New York hospitals, the worst forms of this malarious cachexia have been found in convalescents from what is known as Panama fever. In those, it was very common to find obstinate diarrhoea or dysentery, as complications. In simple intermittent fever, we can always make a favorable prognosis. In many instances, remittent fever is tractable and unattended by danger to life, whilst certain epidemics ma}"" show a very large per centage of fatal cases. The congestive is the most to be dreaded, the mortality being nearly always, very large. " Without treatment, or with the usual treatment of bilious fever, which is little better than none, in this disease, probably three-fourths of the cases termi- nated fatally. But with a special treatment, not more than one in eight." (Parry.) In Maillot's cases, the mortality was 393 out of 1211, a little less than one in three.