VENEREAL DISEASES. 10 SECTION III. THE SIMPLE CHANCKIC AND ITS ATTENDANT BUBO. 1. The simple chancre, for many years confounded with true sypliilis, is now known to be an entirely distinct affection, local in its character, and not requiring the use of mercury in its treatment. We are indebted for the demonstration of this fact to Bassereau, who, by an extensive comparison of individuals bearing venereal ulcers with the persons who infected them, has shown that when the disease remains local in the former, it was likewise so in the latter; and, on the other hand, that if it aff'ects the general system in the one, it has done the same in the other; and this result has been confirmed by Ricord, Fournier, Clerc, Caby, Dron, Rollet, and Diday, of France; by Mr. Henry Thompson, Mr. Henry Lee, and Victor de Meric, of London, and numerous other observers. Independently of clinical experience, therefore, the distinct nature of the simple chancre and of true syphilis rests upon the same proof that is relied upon by naturalists in the determination of species in the animal and vegetable kingdoms, viz., upon the immutability of their characteristic features in successive generations. But, above all, the recognition of this truth is sustained by clinical experience, which shows that a wide disparity exists between one class of cases in which, even without the administration of mercury, the disease disappears forever with the healing of the ulcer; and another class, in which, without mercurials,^general symptoms are sure to make their appearance, and, under the best-directed treatment, relapses may occur at any period of the remaining life of the individual. Moreover, the explana- tion formerly given of this disparity, that it was due to a dif- ference of idiosyncrasies, is found not to bear the test of ex- amination ; and we are forced to the conclusion that the term sypliilis, as used until a very recent date, embraces two distinct aff'ections. To the one which is local in its character, the name of simple, soft, or non-infecting chancre, or chancroid, is now given; the term syphilis being retained exclusively for the constitutional disease.