5 or leaves, cane-stalks, twigs, or small sticks may be substituted. Almost any fracture of the extremities can be thus arranged so as to be comfort- able, even if the patient has to be transported some distance. And in those rare cases in which the bones of the trunk ai-e broken, either on the march or in the field, the whole body may be encased in the same way, a much larger bulk of straw being of course required. In some countries, the custom prevails of placing broken limbs in a mould of wet clay, which dries into a very solid case. This might be resorted to temporarily, in the absence of all other appliances, but has the disadvantages of weight and liability to crack. Wire has of late years been extensively employed for the construction of splints. It may be provided in the form of a fine net-work, in rolls, to be cut in the figure wanted for use; or coarse wire may be carried in coils, pieces being cut oflF and bent into shape when required. The latter is generally made into a frame, on the under side of which the limb is, as it were, suspended in the turns of a bandage. At a somewhat advanced stage of the treatment, the danger of swelling is past, and the patient is usually placed under more favorable circum- stances for the employment of the immovable apparatus, in some one of its forms. The best of these is perhaps the plaster of Paris splint or band- age ; the splint being made by dipping coarse old washed muslin, pre- viously cut and folded to the proper shape, in plaster mixed with cold or hot water, and the bandage by rubbing in dry plaster into the meshes of an ordinary roller, which is moistened as it is applied. None but the best finely ground plaster should be used; its setting or hardening is quickened by the addition of a little salt, delayed by that of a few drops of mucilage. Some surgeons apply the plaster to the naked skin, previously greased. Another form of moulded splint may be made by folding old flannel, and saturating the outer thickness of it with shellac or varnish of some kind. Felt is used by many surgeons in preference to any other material for making splints. Starched and dextrinated bandages have fallen somewhat into disuse of late years, the slowness with which they harden rendering them particularly unsuitable for employment in military practice. We decidedly recommend immediate reduction whenever it is at all practicable. It is not true that the parts remain wholly inactive for eight or ten days, for swelling occurs by effusion of lymph and congestion, and the muscles shorten; so that it may be extremely difiicult at the end of that time to bring the fragments into place. In all cases of doubtful diagnosis, as when the injury is near the hip- joint, it is better to etherize the patient thoroughly, so as to relax the muscles, and render the examination of the part not only less painful, but more satisfactory to the surgeon.