transports with reference to the prevention of infections maladies. These snggestions the reader will please regard merely as practical applications of principles already enun- ciated in the foregoing pages. The points that demand consideration concerning the Points to be con- siJered lelatine; to transports and to tlie troops up- 1 • • J. J? J , siJered relating hygienic management oi transports, are,— to transports and on tlicm. 1st. Tliose that relate to the vessel; previous to embark- ation, and subsequently, when crowded with passengers. 2d. Tliose that relate to the soldiers, previous to embark- ation, and subsequently, while they are on board the transport. The Transport.-—Cleanliness of the vessel; this is an ist. sanitary essential point, and it will seldom be properly attended to wants of trans- before the embarkation, unless the medical officer intelli- ''^cleanliness, gently advises the proper authorities upon the subject. Transports that have been long in service, and upon voy- ages of several days duration, need to be frequently and thoroughly cleansed, and all the spaces between decks and to the very keelson, should be limewashed. Transj)orts upon gpg^j^j „ which any infectious endemic has recently prevailed, should ^^g," that havl either be thrown out of service, or be subjected to sucli feSs'diseases' processes of cleansing, fumigation, and ventilation, as will remove all local infection ; Chlorine, nitrous acid fumes, or ciiionne and ,. Til -I a ,^ • 1* nitrous acid fumi- bromine, may very readily be used for this purpose; and, in gationa. the case of yellow fever infection, if such a transport must be employed before it can be sent to the region of frost, its use of steam, spaces should all be flooded with super-heated steam. "Water ^jhe water sup- should be abundantly supplied in sound casks and tanks, and of as good quality as can be obtained: If it contains much organic matter, let freshly burned and clean charcoal, or the permarganate of potash, be supplied for use in its purification. Of buckets and lavatories let there be full supply on deck, that it may l)e practicable to enforce the proper observance of personal cleanliness. When soldiers are detained several days upon transports, great advantages ^' cea-^''^^'^^