MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 22 been designated by the military snb-intendant or his aid, who shall mark upon the list of vacant places, at the different sta- tionary ambulances, the names of the wounded whom he will send there successively. In this manner the exact situation of the ambulances will be precisely known. When the wounded are very numerous, no operations shall be performed except- ing those which are absolutely necessary. One-third of the surgeons shall be constantly occupied in visiting the wounded, and judging as to the necessity of immediate operation or dress- ing, especially when the number of the wounded is large; the remaining two-thirds shall attend to the necessary opera- tions and dressings, following, except in cases of great urgency, the order of arrival and the rank of the patient. In the ambu- lance of the trenches, the services of the infirmary men may be conveniently divided in the following manner: two infirm- ary men for each surgeon engaged in dressing; two infirmary men for each surgeon on his visits—one to write, and the other to assist the patient to get on the litter; four infirmary men for an operating table; and finally, eight to twelve infirmary men engaged as porters, to attend to the transportation of the wounded. It is very important to prevent the crowding of the ambulance of the trenches by soldiers whose aid is not required. A guard should therefore be placed at the door to prevent such persons from entering. In the ambulance of the division, on the day of battle, two surgeons should be on duty to re- ceive the wounded coming from the trenches, and to examine minutely each wound. They shall make a definitive dressing in cases where an immediate operation is not indicated." The general practice of the French surgeons in the Crimea was to extract foreign bodies from Avounds at an early pe- riod, whenever they were easily accessible. The most efficient styptics in arresting hemorrhage, where tlie blood-vessels could not be conveniently tied, were the perchloride and the persulphate of iron. Amputations were generally resorted to in severe injuries of the limbs, and the results were more favor- able than wiien conservative surgery was attempted. Primary amputations were much more successful than secondary. Scrive makes an exception to this rule, in the case of amputation of