18 PNKUMONIA. effect as manifested by the symptoms, No abstract rules can belaid down, applicable to all cases; but careful observation must furnish the rule proper to each individual case. Here, too, as in the continued fevers, because alcoholic stimulants are vastly important in some cases, it is not to be inferred that they are invariably indicated, nor that they can never do harm ; on the contrai'v, if pushed to an injudicious extreme, they are as potent for evil as they are potent for good when judiciously used.* The question may be asked, Under what circumstan- ces is their use to be commenced ? We may say that they are indicated always so soon as evidence appears of any ten- dency to failure of the powers of life. And of this the action of the heart, as represented by the pulse, is the best criterion. Feebleness, great frequency, and a pulse vibratory or thrilling, but compressible, denoting increased activity but diminished power of the ventricular contractions—these are the cliaracters which indicate supporting measures, of which alcoholic stimu- lants are an essential part. Given at first in small or moderate doses, the effect is to be watched, and the quantity increased in proportion to the urgency of the indication. The habits of the patient, as regards the use of alcoholic drinks, are, of course, to be taken into account. Whenever the question arises, in the management of a case, whether alcoholic stimu- lants are advisable or not, it should be borne in mind that to begin earlier than they are required is far preferable to subse- (|uent delay ; for, with proper care, they can be suspended without any injury having been done; but the time lost, by beginning too late, cannot be regained. Alimentation is an essential part of the supporting treatment. It is not less important to feed pneumonias than to " feed fevers," or other diseases, wlieuever there is danger from failure of the vital powers. If this be considered as a bold assertion, it is believed the only reason is its novelty. It is not long since the idea of feeding fevers was equally bold, because equally novel. The statement that patients with pneumonia may safely be encouraged to take nutritious food during the * In view of a tendency, at the present time, to an excessive use of alcoholic stimulants, the Committee desire to impress the importance of the exercise of proper discrimination and care in their use.