20 and (Jio severer iiiflnininatory forms, if uncoiiiplicii led, run llielr course in fioni two to tlirec weeks. J3ut these are only a|i|)ro\i- nialive lernis. The graver and eomplicalcd varieties of the disease may terminate fatally within a few days, ami the leiist severe, if improperly treated, or in unfavorable eircumstances, may be indefinitely jjrolongcd, and become chronic. iJiiK/nosis.—As stated in the definition, tormina, tenesmns, bloody stools, and fever form a group of symptoms peculiar to dvsentery. It may be added that the constitniional depression is greater in dysentery than in any affection which casually I'e- sembles it. Thus, a person subjected to bleeding piles nuiy be attacked with colic, tenesmus, and a discharge of blood from the rectum. But there is wanting any marked derangement of the nervous system, of the circulation, or of the organs of pri- mary digestion; besides which the history of the a I tack will reveal its special cause. The same remark is a]i[)licalile to cases in which irritant substances, food, or poisons, have occa- sioned similar symptoms. Prognosis.—The danger of dysentery depends chicflv upon its type. The mild form always terminates favorably under judicious treatment; the sthenic, and the bilious form, when ' simple, are those in which the method of treatment emiiloyed exerts the greatest influence on the rate of morlalily which they occasion, and in which, therefore, the largest field is open for medical skill. Typhoid dysentery is the least anu'iiablc to treatment, and is the form to which the greatest I'avages are attributable, as many as two-thirds of those attacked bv it falling victims in certain epidemics. The mortalilv in pi'o- porti<jn to the number attacked is always greatest at the com- mencement of an epidemic, as if the morbid cause w(M-e then most virulent; l)ut the aggregate mortality conlimies to iiicr(>ase for some time in proportion to the number of pcisons attacked, and then as gradually declines Avith the extent as well as the