17 AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. cced with an undeviating deadly rareer. But in all of thcs:^ the- poison, tho original cause of the malady, iw essentially the same, and the results depend partly on constitutional causes, partly on the amount and virulence oi the poison imbibed. "The same amount of poison will, as is the case with alcohol, atlert two jjcrsons inhaling it in very difterent degrees. The disease is what is termed by medical men ' antiperiodic,'and the remedies required arc'anliperiodics,' of wliich the best known and the most eflRcient is quinine. This may be given as soon as the complaint shows itself; and the sooner the better, as it is the main stay of the sutierer ; of course, various occasional symptoms may occur during its progress, which will require to be treated according to circumstances. " But the great modern improvement is the discovery that quinine not only cures but that it actually prevents; and that by taking this invaluable drug while iu unhealthy localities, persons may escape totally unscathed. Tlie best form to use for this purpose is quinine wine, of which half a glass should b(^ taken in the morning, and repeated, if requisite, iu the afternoon. " Experience likewise proves that if endemic fever seizes a person who has been using quinine as a [iropliylactic. he will escape much more easily, and have a milder and more manageable attack than another who has not been so employing it."—Bnikie'n Exploring Voyage. App. 0., hy the Surgeon of the Expedition. " From the day before we crossed the bar, in the Pleiad's voyage, I com- menced giving quinine sohition to all the Europeans on boaril. Not having a sufficient quantity of the medicated wine, I dissolved the sulphate (of (luiiiine) iu like proiiortions in water, adding two glasses of wine to my solution. Some of the officers at first grumbled in taking it, and drank it with a very sour face ; but soon all, with one exception, came to be so anxious for it, that had I not made a rule to put the bottle and glass over the engine-room every morn- ing at daybreak, they would be down at my bedside for the dose. I'he man whom I could not train into taking it was one of our second mates, who in the course of our voyage had a few severe attacks of remittent fever, accompanied with delirium. ■* * * I think the fact wliich I am about to state here will answer the followang paragraph in Dr. Bryson's suggestions :—' Whether or not the influence of quinine on the system, like that of other medicines, be- comes lessened by long-continued use, we have no knowledge: possibly the question may be determined during the present expedition.' I had it dis- pensed daily for the Europeans imdcr my charge, from the day before we crossed the bar to three weeks after our return to Fernando Po, a period of one hundred and forty days. In no single case could I recognize its f(rilure ; when some of our officers, who from not taking it punctually, got slight at- tacks of remittent fever, the accession always yielded to appropriate renu'dies,. with doses of quinine increased to ten grains. The sym])toms subdued, I re- turned to the original dose of quinine, observing after each occui-rcnce the precaution to lecture them on their irregularity in taking it, ]:ointing out its- benefits, and impressing them with the fact that our return through the delta would Ijc at th(; most unhealthy ])eriod of the year. Despite of these attacks,, and of our proloiigi'd stay u)j the river, we had the same number and the same