6 be retained, liowever inconvenient it may be. Ligatures may be inserted, but tbrougli tbe skin only. If the tbroat be cut across in front, any great vessels should be tied, and the oozing stopped by a sponge. After a few hours, when the oozing is ar- rested, the sponge should be removed, and the head brought down towards the chest, and retained in that position without ligatures ; if this is done too soon, the suiFerer may possibly be suffocated by the infiltration of blood into the areolar tissue of the parts adjacent. 5. If the cavity of the chest is opened into by a sword or lance, it is of the utmost imj)ortance that the wound in the skin should be efiectively closed, and this can only be done by sewing it up as a tailor or a lady would sew up a seaiu, skin only being included ; a compress of lint should be applied over the stitches, fastened on by sticking-plaster. The patient is then to be placed on the wounded side, that the lung may fall down, if it can, upon, or apply itself to, the wounded part, and adhere to it, by which happy and hoped for accident life will in all probability be preserved. If the lung should be seen protruding in the wound, it should not be returned beyond the level of the ribs, but be covered over by the external parts. 6. It is advisable to encourage previously the discharge of blood from the cavity of the chest, if any have fallen into it; but if the bleeding from within should continue, so as to place the life of the sufierer in danger, the external wound should be closed, and events awaited. 7. "When it is doubtful whether the bleeding proceeds from the cavity of the chest, or from the intercostal artery, (a surgical bugbear,) an incision through the skin and the external inter- costal muscle will expose the arter^^ close to the edge of the rib havino; the internal intercostal muscle behind it. The vessel thus ex-]^)osed may be tied, or the ond pinched by the forceps, until it ceases to bleed. Tying a string round the ribs is a de- structive piece of cruelty, and the plugs, cfcc, formerly recom- mended, may be considered as surgical incongruities.