AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 13 under the name of " quinine wine," was added to the medical stores of the cruisers employed on tlie African station, and the following extracts from the repoi'ts of the surgeons in charge of the several ships afibrd evidence of the effects which were observed to follow its use : " Wliile coaling at Sierra Leone, writes Surgeon Sibbald, the -weather was very wet, and on their several duties both men and officers were much exposed to the rain. An extra allowance of grog and quinhio was given to each man, and continued afterwards for a day or two to such as reiiuircd it. Mr. , however, placed no faith in its preventive influence, and would nut take it, and he alone suliered an attack of fever, which proved fatal. "A boat's crew, belonging to the Pluto, were employed for twenty-five (hiys up the Congo. The wine was regularly supplied, but it caused one of the men to vomit, and therefore he discontinued its use ; he was the first to sulfer from fever. Only one other case occurred among the crew. " During our stay in tlfe river Lagos, quinine wine was regularly offered to the mL'n, morning and evening; all took it, I believe, except two midshipmen and two seamen belonging to the galley. These foiu- persons subsequently each suffered a severe attack of fever. While in the whole fcjrce, consisting of upwards of 2,'JO men, there occurred only a few other cases of trifling impoj-t-. ance. (Report of Mr. Heath, Surgeon of the Teazer.) " Thirty-six men belonging to the Water- Witch were emjiloyed in the attack on Ijagos ; they were in the river four or five days, and, with the exception of three, all took quinine wine while there, and for fourteen days after they left it. Of the whole number five only were attacked with fever, namely, the three men who did not take the wine, and other two, who most imprudently ex- posed themselves to the eun, and bathed while much heated by violent exer- cise. (J. Henderson, Esq., M. D.) " On the morning of the 25th of November, seventy-seven men of the ship went up the river Lagos to attack the town. Before starting, every officer and man was ordered to Uike a glass of quinine wine, and a sufficient quantity was put into the boats to repeat the same at night. All, to the best of my knowl- edge, took it, with the exception of Mr. D., master's assistant, who rather plumed himself on having escaped taking a dose ofphysii-. This young gentle- man, on the 10th of December, just a fortnight after, was seized with a violent, attack of remittent fever; and, of the whole number who entered the river, he is the only one who, up to this date (the 7th of January), has been attacked. '— (F. StiqMirt, Eitq., Savgeon.) In another of the (British) Kavy Medical Reports (No. XXX.), "On the Endemic Fevers of Africa, and Prophylactic Use of Quinine," l)y L. J. IIavne, Esq., Assistant Surgeon R. N., the following passage occurs:- * London Medical Timce and Gazette, March. 180i,