6 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTrO em portions of our couutrj, wliere diseases of malarial origin are most prevalent. Its curative properties ai-e recognized and highly esteemed in all pai'ts of the civilized world, and by physicians of every school. Happily, they are not confined to the cure of miasmatic diseases alone; in virtue of its tonic or strengthening power, Quinine is valuable in debility arising from many other causes, promoting the appetite and power of digestion, and increasing the vital forces. Unlike many ex- cellent medicines, it is destitute of noxious and poisonous qual- ities, and, unless rashly and injudiciously employed, never does serious harm ; nor does it act only as a temporary stimulant, leaving a condition of greater weakness after its immediate effects have passed away, but rather, like nutritious food, con- fers pei'iuanently increased strength and power of resisting disease. These facts, however, are known and used by all educated physicians, but there is one quality possessed by this valuable medicine which is not so generally appreciated, especially at the JSTorth, and which the Sanitary Commission desires to have recognized to the fullest possible extent for the benefit of our soldiers now in the field; and this is the power possessed by Quinine, when taken regularly in small quantities, of prevent- ing an attack of disease in a healthy person exposed to malaria. In order to estimate fully the value of this prophylactic or preventive property of quinine, which is styled by a recent English writer "a modern discovery," it will be useful to re- hearse a few well-established medical facts : a. Individuals nndoubtedly differ in degree of susceptibility, or in their liability to be attacked by miasmatic disease, but there is no ainount of natural vigor of constitution, or positive high health, which will confer immunity against the effects of the poison. b. The young are usually more liable to the disease than those of mature age. c. Poisoning from malaria is more liable to take place be- tween the hours of sunset and sunrise, and in those who are fasting, fatigued, or deprived of sleep.