20 jilacemcnt of the tibin l)ack\vards is liable to occur unriotic^cd by tlie surgeon, who may discover it only wlioii it is too late to be remedied ; a consideraI)le leiigtli of lime must there- fore be allowed to elapse before this is pei-iormed. and the first dressing should be made with reiercnc(i to such a course. Some of the external applications may be changed, and the remaining dressing kept from becoming otfensive by the free use of a solution of chloride of soda. The limb should not l)e lifted from the bed for as long a period as possible. The swelling of the whole limb, which frequently accom- panies the slow process of recovery, may be restrained, if not prevented, by careful and smooth bandaging fi'om 'the foot upward. ANICLE-JOIXT. The ends of the tibia and fibula have been removed only on one or two occasions for gun-shot injuries, and then with- out success. The operation in these cases consisted rather in a removal of comminuted fi'agnients of bone, than in a regular excision. Indeed, it is not easy to foresee circum- stances likely to occur in the field, in which complete ex- cision of the ankle-joint would be advisable. The recoveries which have followed the operation in cases of compound dis- location in civil jiracttice indicate its projiriety in accidents of that sort hap})ening to soldiers, and which in the artillerj- and mounted service cannot be of infrcHjuent occurrence. The astragalus, in cases of its irreducible and compound dislocation, njiay be removed, wljen manipulation and the division of bands which seem to prevent will not allow of its reduction. In cases wliere the ends of the tibia and fibula, or the en- tire astragalus, are removed, and the joint destroyed, even if life is saved, a useful limb cannot be promised with any de- gree of assurance. Anchylosis and considerable shortening are the best results to be hoped i'or. In removing any of the parts about the ankle-joint the posterior tibial artery will necessarily be divided. The pre-