CONTINUED FEVEliS. 14 fill of tlie powder may be given at once, and repeated at such intervals as the case may seem to require, till the liemorrhao-e ceases." Laryngeal obstruction from oedema—a peculiar and dangerous complication—sometimes occurs in this and other low fevers, requiring immediate and prompt attention by scari- fication of the glottis or tracheotomy. Peritonitis from per- foration can onl^^ be treated by the exhibition of large doses of opium, abstinence from all food, and absolute and motionless rest, and this with a -well-nigh hopeless chance of success, yioughing, in tedious cases, may be obviated by frequent changes of posture, and a judicious use of pillows of bran. In the aggravated forms of the fever, the state of the bladder should be daily attended to. A peculiar state of the tongue, seen not unfrequently in this disease in its advanced stages, has been considered as indi- cating an aggravation of ulceration in the ileum, and is often treated successfully by the administration of the oil of turpen- tine in small doses ; it is when in the advanced stages of the disease, after cleaning partially in flakes, the tongue becomes suddenly hard and dry, with increase of tympanites and ag- gravation of all the other abdominal symptoms. In such cases. Dr. Wood advises the administration of from five to ten or fifteen drops of the oil, in emulsion with gum arabic and loaf-sugar and water,—adding a little laudanum occasionally if it disturb either the stomach or bowels. In the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours the tongue becomes moister, the tympanites diminishes, the pulse is less frequent, the skin less harsh and dry, and the patient enters slowly but regularly into convalescence. Thirty yeai's' of experience has convinced this accurate observer of the etHcacy of the treatment iu such cases. When the disease is evidently of nnilarions origin, or is complicated with bilious reniittent,—as it may be in districts where the miasmatic fevers prevail,—and especially if, under such circumstances, an intermittent form of the fever super- vene, baric, or the sulphate of quinine should be used with- out hesitation, and Avith a freedom proportioned to the ur- gency of the symptoms. But the general and indiscriminate