VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 31 TliL' vesicli's liaviiio- been opeiiei] with a lancet in the usual vay, the tuhc held in a position nioix; or less inclined to the horizontal, is c]Kii-!j,-eil by ajiplying one end of it (the straight end, if they be not both sti'aight) to the exuding lymph, whicli enters immediately by the force of capillary attraction. Allow as nnicli to enter as will oc(;u])y tVoni al)out one-seventh to one- half the lengtli of the tube, according as its capacity is greater or less. As a general rule, each tube should not be charged with more than will sutiice for one vaccination. It is now to be sealed in one or other of the following ways : Either, 1st. uiake the lymph gravitate towards the middle, by holding the tube vertically and giving it a few slight shocks by striking the wrist on the arm or table; then seal the end by which the lymph entered, by applying it to the surface of the flame of a candle, or any similar flame. It melts over and is sealed immediately. Proceed with the other cud in the same way, but first plunge it suddenly, say half an inch into the flame, and as quickly withdraw it till it tonches the surface, and hold it there till it too melts over. It is uecessary to plunge it first into the flame, i'or this reason, tluit if it be at once applied to the external sur- face of the flame it melts over, uo doubt, and is sealed ; but before you have time to complete the process, and while the glass is still soft, the contained air expands with the heat, and forms a minute bulb, which either gives way on the iustaiit, I'endering it uecessary foi' you to break off" the end and com- uience anew, or, what is still worse, remains entire for the time, only to break afterwards, in consequence of its extreme tcn-.iity of wall, by the slightest touch. Mr. Ceely has sug- gested, that while this pi-ecaution is necessary for the reason stated, it serves also to ex])el a portion of air, and so leaves less air to be sealed up along with the fluid lymph. Or else, 2illy, the charge having entered, hold the tube wiih the linger and thumb, covering the inner extremity of tlie eolunm of lynq)h and protecting it from tlie heat, and di'aw nearly the whole of the empty portion throngh the ilame, so as to rai-ety the contained aii-; and in witlidrawing it, seal the fnr- tlier extremity. The column now passes (pnckly along toward-"