VKXERKAL DISEASES. 12 Prognosis.—Always alociil affection, and cannot infect tlie 83-stem. " Spe- cific" treatment by mercury and iodine alw ays useless, and, in most cases, in- jurious. Prognosis.—A constitutional affec- tion. Secondary syTnjjtoms, unless pre- vented or retarded by treatment, declare themselves in about six weeks from tlie appearance of tlie sore, and very rarely delay longer than three months.* 3. Wlien in doubt as to tlie nature of the venereal ulcer, treat it as a soft chancre, and keep the patient under observation nntil the period of incubation of general symptoms has passed. This rule is justified by the following considerations : a. Statistics show that there are four simple to one infecting cliancre; hence, in a given case, the probabilities are in favor of the sore being of the former species. h. Even if the sore should chance to be an infecting chancre, tlie administration of mercury will not prevent contamination of the general system, which has already taken place. More- over, nothing is lost by delay, since syphilis is equally amena- ble to treatment after the appearance of secondary as after primary symptoms. c. We are not justified in subjecting a patient to a mercurial course uidess the necessity of it is apparent. d. An immediate resort to mercurials leaves the case in doubt, since there are no means of determinino' whether the subsequent immunity is due to the treatment or to the nature of the sore; and as it is not a matter of indifference whether a man has or has not in liis system the germ of constitutional syi)liilis, no measures should be adopted which will leave the question undecided. -f. Cicatrization of a soft chancre may take place spontane- ously, and is not hastened by the use of mercury. The most effective treatment consists in the destruction of the local sore by means of a powerful caustic; and the earlier this is applied the better the cliances of success. For this reason, and also for the purpose of preventing the communication of the dis- ease to others, venereal ulcers should be destroyed at the * The Pathology and Treatment of Venereal Diseases; including the results of recent investigations upon the subject. By F. J. Bumstead. M. D. 18G1.—