ON HEMORBHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 12 One great excellence of this instrument is, that it can be ap- plied by the wounded man himself. Its cheapness is another of its good qualities, as the cost will not exceed fifty cents; thus placing it within the reach of every private soldier as well as ever}' officer in the army, who may desire its pro- tection. Diagrams Nos. 3 and 4 represent this instrument and illustrate its modes of application.* • . * The following letter from my son gives a full account of the construction of this instrument and its application :— 209 Tenth Street, New York, May 24th, 1863. Dear Father :—Believing that the tourniquet which I send you, has numerous advantages over all other instruments of the kind now in use, I beg you will give it a trial, and if it meet your approval it will afford me pleasure to see it adopted by you, and recommended to the profession. As you will notice, its construction is very simple, and its application not complicated—it can easily be repaired by any ordinary mechanic. Another good quality which it possesses is, that it may be cleansed with water, without fear of rust or injury to any of its component parts. It is composed of steel plates, the anterior one 5^ inches long, having a wooden pad (grooved or smooth) permanently attached ; transversely to its centre by two (2) screws ; the ends of the plates thrown up from the centre so as to form wings, and having at- tached to either end ordinary buckles secured by copper rivets through a piece of webbing. The posterior plate 5^ to to 5 inches long is of the same material and some- what of the same shape, having but one point of pressure, the centre ; at each ex- tremity is riveted apiece of webbing 12 inches long. The mode of application I believe would present itself to the mind of any casual olpserver, and therefore needs but little explanation. .. Either strap is to be passed around the limb (arm or leg) and through the 'buckles, thus securing it, care being taken to place the posterior plate on the op- posite side of the limb to the anterior one ; the wooden pad is then to be placed over the artery to be compressed, and either or both strajjs drawn sufficiently tight to obstruct the current of blood through the vessel. Having furnished a sample of this Tourniquet about two mouths since to Brigadier General W. A. Hammond, Surgeon General U. S. Army, I am happy to say that it met with his approval, and I trust will find its way into the ai-my, as I believe it fulfils all the requirements of a field Tourniquet, being portable, less complicated than any now in use, and readily applied with one hand by a wounded soldier upon himself. . , • . . . •» I likewise claim for it the important advantage of arresting hemorrhage in