12 • tudinal incision, than to sacrifice the important permanent advantage which the single incision promises to secure. The extent of the incision must be such that when the parts are brought together, the bones neither lock nor refuse easy flexion. The insertions of the biceps and brachialis anticus muscles are to be preserved whenever possible, and it is to be remembered that in dividing the ulna and radius low down, the interosseous artery will be endangered. Four inches of bone above and four below the joint have several times been removed, a useful arm being regained. In oper- ations, however, which open the medullary cavity of the shaft, the dangers of myelitis are to be dreaded. Partial ex- cision, on the other hand, even if the end of one or more of the bones appears uninjured, is not admissible, as such cases are more liable to fail, and are less satisfactory in the result- ing mobility when they succeed, than if the whole articula- tion is removed. In many instances, the detachment of fragments, and smoothing off the sharp processes of the frac- tured boues with bone-forceps, will constitutfe the whole operation of excision. After-treatment.—For the first week, and until suppura- tion has become established, the arm should repose on a pillow bent at an obtuse angle of about one hundred and thirty degrees, (that being one of greater ease than a right angle,) with cold-water dressing to the wound. Subse- quently poultices may be substituted ; but in all excisions it is to be remembered that the long-contijiued use of poul- tices retards adhesive processes and encourages suppuration and ulceration. It will not be before^the expiration of the second or third week that a rectangular splint can be applied, and this, if possible, should be one which permits of a varia^ tion from day to day of the position in which the arm is to remain flexed. Passive motion is to be commenced at the earliest moment the wound and the patient's endurance will permit, and be faithfully kept up by the surgeon as fre- quently as it can possibly be practised.