VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 29 leaves a cicatrix, wliicli coiiimoiily is pcrnianciit in after-life, circular, somewhat depressed, dotted or indented Avitli niinuti! pits, and in sonic instances radiated. The altovc-descrihed local changes, while in active progress, are attended by fever- ishness : first from the fifth to the seventh day, so slightly that often the fact passes unobserved ; and again more considerably during those days when the areola is about its height; the pa- tient now being restless and hot, with more or less disturbance of stomach and bowels. About the same time, especially if the weather be hot, children of full habit not unfrequently show on the extremities, and less copiously on the trunk, a lichcnous, roscolor, or vesicular eruption, which commonly con- tinues for about a week. When vaccination is performed on such adults or adolescents as have not previously been vac- cinated, and likewise when lymph is employed which has recently been derived from the cow, tlie resulting phenomena, as compared with the preceding description, are somewhat retarded in their course; and the areola is apt to be much more diff'use. There is also more feverishness, but eruption is less frequently seen." (B.) '• When persons who have once been efliciently vaccin- ated are, some years afterwards, revaccinated with eft'ective lymph, there sometimes results vesicles, which, as regards their course and that of the attendant areola, cannot be distinguished from the perfect results of primary vaccination. But far more usually the results are more or less modified by the influence of such previous vaccination. Often no true vesicles form, but merely papular elevations surrounded by areola ; and these results having attained their maximum on or before the fifth day, afterwards quickly decline. Or if vesicles form, their shape is apt to vary from that of the regular vesicle, and their course to be more rapid, so that their maturity is reached on or before the sixth day, their areola decline on or before the eighth day, and their scabbing begins correspondingly early. In either case the areola tend to dift'use themselves more widely and less regularly, and with more afl:eetion of the cellular mem- brane than in primary vaccination ; and the local changes are accompanied by much itching, often l)y some irritation of the