8 AMPUTATIONS. approaclies the trunk; in fact, the nearer to the trunk, the greater the danger. Therefore: 1. Asa general rule, other things being etpal, save as much of the limb as possible. 2. When time is of consequence, disarticulation of a phalanx is sometimes preferable to the division of the bone in its con- tinuity. Disarticulation of the toes is always preferable, ex- cept, in some cases, the first phalanx of the great toe may be divided through its middle portion. 3. However extensive may be an injury to the hand, en- deavors should be made to save a portion of it, if it be only one or two fingers. Especially should an attempt be made to preserve the thumb, and even in the very worst-looking cases, such is the great reparative power of nature in these parts, that the surgeon may genei'ally accomplish much in this respect. 4. Where time is of consequence, and even in most cases, * disarticulation at the wrist-joint is preferable to an attempt to save a few of the carpal bones. 5. In gun-shot injuries of the foot, attempts may be made to save a portion of the member by either of the methods recommended by Hey, Chopart, Pirogoff, or Syme. In place of Hey's operation, the disarticulation of the metatarsal bones from the tarsus being often troublesome, it is better to saw through the metatarsus just in tVont of the tarsal articulations. Should disarticulation at the ankle-joint be practised, the re- moval of the malleoli must not be forgotten. 6. Other things being equal, it is best to save as much of the leg as possible, not exceeding three-fourths, in order for the better adaptation of an artificial limb. 7. In the rare cases which admit of its adoption, excision of the head of the femur is to be i)erformed in preference to dis- articulation, as being the least likely to lead to a fatal issue. When it is determined to perform amputation, it should, if pos- sible, be made through the trochanters of the femur, rather than at the hip-joint. 8. In selecting the point for amputation, it must be remem- bered that, in gun-shot wounds, the injuries are often far more extensive than they at first sight appear. Care therefore should