10 bleed to death, unless aid be afibrded, by making compression above, and on tlie bleeding part. A long, but not broad stone, tied sharply on with a handkerchief, will often suffice until as- sistance can be obtained, when both ends of the divided or wounded artery are to be secured by ligatures. 26. The Tipper end of the great artery of the thigh bleeds scarlet blood, the lower end dark venous-colored blood; and this is not departed from in a case of accidental injury, unless there have been previous disease in the limb. A knowledge of this fact or circumstance, which continues for several days, will pre- vent a mistake at the moment of injury, and at a subsequent period, if secondary haemorrhage should occur. In the upper extremity both ends of the principal artery bleed scarlet blood, from the free collateral circulation, and from the anastomoses in the hand. 27. From this cause mortification rarely takes place after a wound of the principal artery of the arm, or even of the armpit. \t frequently follows a wound of the principal artery, in the up- per, middle, or even lower jDarts of the thigh, rendering ampu- tation necessary. 28. It is a great question, when the bone is xininjxired, where, and at what part, the amputation should be performed. Mortification of the foot and leg from such a wound, is diposed to stop a little below the knee, if it should not destroy the suf- ferer ; and the operation, if done in the first instance, as soon as the tallowy or mottled appearance of the foot is observed, should be done at that jDart; the wound of the artery, and the opera- tion for securing the vessel above and below the wound, being > left unheeded. By this proceeding, when successful, the knee- joint is saved, whilst an amputation above the middle of the thigh is always very doubtful in its result. 29. "When mortification has taken ])lace from any cause, and has been arrested below the knee, and the dead parts show some sign of sej'jaration, it is usual to amputate above the knee. By not doing it, but by gradually separating and removing the dead parts, under the use of disinfecting nacdicaments and fresh air,