TVPIIorn FEVER. 11 are tlic beneficial effects of active medication less marked and obvious. In no disease is the benefit of the watchful care and attention of the physician more apparent. At the first onset of tlic disease, the patient should desist from his ordinary duties, abstain from food except of the mildest and simplest kind, and be placed in bed, or, at least, in a state of repose. Attempts to jugulate the fever by violent emetics and cathartics, are opposed to reason and ex- perience, and may prove of incalculable mischief in the end ; and all delay and forced efforts to "stave ofi"" the attack will prove of no avail. At the commencement of the disease, if the patient lias eaten immoderately, or signs of irritable injesta in the stomach are present, an emetic of ipecac 3 ss. may bo administered. The bowels should also be evacuated by a mild cathartic, sufficient to clear them of all irritating matter; a moderate dose of castor-oil, either alone or in emulsion, will do this effectually and without danger. Afterwards, the bowels should be kept moderately open during the whole course of the disease. Often there is diarrhoea throughout, and always an unusual sensitiveness to the influence of ca- thartic medicines; tlie gentlest laxatives, therefore, and those in small doses, will be sufficient. If the evacuations are free and spontaneous, none will be required ; if gastro-intestinal irritation be severe, mucilaginous enemata should be substi- tuted. But all unnecessary agitation of the intestinal track is to be scrupulously avoided, bearing in mind the great sensitive- ness of that region, and the peculiar lesions wliich, in all forms and grades of the disease, are the essential ])atliological ele- ments of the fever in question. Sometimes in its early stages, in a ])lethoric and robust pa- tient, when the pulse-is full and strong, and there is much pain in the head, flushed face, and obvious acttive congestion or inflammation of the brain or other vital organ, a single bleed- ing may possibly be res(n'ted to with benefit. This, however, is the very rare exception, iu)t the rule; and a few leeches to the temples or in the immediate vicinity of whatever iuqior- tant oi'gan is thus threatened, are almost always to be prt'l'ei'i'cd, if blood is to be taken at all. Experience is de^'idtMlly against