AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 15 marsliy ground. A medical officer should be present wlicn tlie quinine \vine is issued, and to witness tlie same being drunk by the men."* Under tlie new Medical Regulations for Field Service in the I'ritish army, a .sanitary otiicer to the exjieditiunaiy ai-niy (to China), to be attaclied to the Qnarterniaster-generars Depart- ment, was selected and furni.shed with instructions for the per- formance of his si)ecial duties. Of these instructions, j)ara- graphs 7 and 8 are as follows: " Should tlie force have to advance through malarious districts, or at un- healthy seasons, you will indicate the best means of mitigating or preventing attacks of disease on the march or advance. "With reference to the above object, it will be very requisite that the men should have some refreshment, as coffee, before marching. And, from the very favorable result of its use in the China command, quinine wine is to be recom- mended for use during the months when fc'ver and bowel com])laints prevail, or at any epidemic seasons: and of this prophylactic each man should have a daily ration, to be taken in the presence of a responsible officer."f As evidence of the views and opinions on the subject held by the medical officer highest in rank in the British army, and of the provisions made for the amjde supply of the British army in the Crimea with quinine to be employed as a proj)hy- lactic, the following letter to the Inspector-general of Hospitals in the Crimea is subjoined "Army Medical Depaktment, 27</i Julu, 1855. " Sm: With reference to previous letters on the subject of administering quinine, and other preparations of bark, as prophylactic remedies, I have the honor again to draw your attention to the matter. " From all I have learnt, I am persuaded that the number of cases of fever would be diminished by such a course. So convinced am I, especially by th(! results of the experience of naval medical officers, of the benefits arising from the prevention plan, when followed in localities in which remittent and in- termittent fevers are likely to prevail, that I have taken care to provide ample supplies of quinine in anticipation of every possible demand for that article. " Having now at command sufficient of this drug, specially provided for that * Sanitary Reiwrt for 1859, ut supra, pp. 179-180. t British Army Rejiorts for 1859, p. 181. \ ReiKirt of the Commissioners appointed to inquire into the regulations affecting tlu! sanitary commission of the army, the organization of military hospitals, and the treatment of tho sick ami wounded Presented to Par liament, &c., 1858. App. 79, p. 71.