CONTINUED FEVErtS. 10 one symptom or group of symptoms, usually occurring, wliicli may not be absent daring its entire progress. The most com- mon and marked cliaracteristics are its insidious attack, the early headache, apathy, dulness and perversion of the senses, tinnitus, dry cough and bronchial rales, tendency to diarrhoaa, epistaxis, pains in abdomen, tenderness, and gurglhig; and later, the appearance of the rose rash, with sudamina, tympanites, light-colored liquid stools, stupor, low delirium, and adynamic condition generally. These, in mild, average, and severe cases, being mostly present, leave little doubt of the nature of the malady. It is important early to recognize the latent form described above, and the value of the precautionary measures it naturally suggests. The disease may be confounded, in its early stages, with the bilious remittent, if within the sphere of the latter aftections,—especially if, as is believed by Dr. George B. Wood, the two diseases may be somewhat commingled in consequence of the co-operation of their causes; cases (as that distinguished authority asserts) having all the esseutial charac- ters of typhoid fever, occasionally ending in intermittents ; and bilious fevers or affections which cannot be distinguished from them, sometimes showing the symptoms of typhoid fever during their progress. But the pure remittents may be com- monly known by their more decided remissions, the bilious vomiting and yellowness of skin, shorter duration, more abrupt accession, and absence of the prominent adynamia or general prostration ; the rose eruption, of course, is never seen. A hasty diagnosis, in miasmatic regions particularly, should be avoided ; and while in doubt, give the benefit of the doubt in favor of the disease now under consideration. Tekaiment.—Various, and, to some extent, opposite modes of inanagcnient have, at diifercnt times, been advocated and adopted. The buhuice of authority is in favor of a I'ational, syiHptouuitic, (>\pL'ct;int jtlan of ti-eatment, adapted—as far as coiunioii sense and cxperitMice will iMialilc ns—to the varying .state and condition of tlie patient in ditferent forms of the ti^ver, and the sevurid stages of its progress. In few diseases