8 3d. R(j11ci- bandages, K\iital)le for the upper and lower ex- tremities, say two inches wide and five yards lon<^ for tlie upper extremity, and three inclies wide and six yards long for the lower extremit_y. 4th. Tin l)asins for mixing the plaster. Ifode of Application.—As these splints consist of several thicknesses of muslin or canton flannel, saturated with a mix- t>n-e of plaster and water, and applied to the limb, the shape of the splint and the part of the limb to which it is applied must vary in different cases. Sometimes it may be the best to apply the dressing in separate pieces to the difl-erent sides of the limb, and to retain them with transverse bands of the same material. In other cases, and this in our experience is the simpler mode, the dressing should be in one piece, so as to make a partial casing for the limb, causing it to flt the limb accurately, by applying over it a roller bandage. This may be removed as soon as the splint becomes hard. The limb should be shaven or lightly oiled, to prevent the hairs from sticking to the splints. The Canton flannel or old muslin is then to be cut of the proper size and shape. If the material used is very coarse, it will not be necessary to make it of more than two or three thicknesses. Two thicknesses of Canton flannel make the best kind of splints. Windows should be cut out, so as to allow the wounds to remain uncovered. After this has been done, the j^laster should l)e prepared. Ecpial parts of plaster and water are about the right proportions.'^ If it is necessary that the plaster should "set" cpiickly, a small quan- tity of salt should be dissolved in the water before adding the plaster. If in any case delay is necessary, the addition of a small f[uantity of carpenters' glue, mucilage or starch, will subserve that end. The plaster should be sprinkled in the water until the proper quantity is added, and then allowed to * It has been stated that a very Ikjhl and porous splint may be made by pi'cpai'ing the phisler paste, as follows: Gypsum, 75 parts, by weight- Water, 100 parts. Starch, to 2 parts, "