17 tlie end of tlie stump without inconvenience ; and, on this account, the facility of progression is, with a proper apparatus, decidedly greater than when the amputation is performed at any higher part of the limb." On the contrary, it is alleged against this operation— 1st. That it is difficult and tedious. But Mr. Syme states that he requires less time than a minute to perform it. 2d. That the flaj) is liable to slowjh. This, liowever, rarely takes phice to any considerable extent. Mr. S_yme says :— " That the flap may, and probably will still occasiomiUy slough, is unhappily too true, but that this result is always owing to an error in the mode of performance, I think does not admit of any question. For as the integument being detached from its subjacent connexions, can derive nourishment only from the anastomosing vessels, it is evident that if scored crossways, instead of being separated by cutting parallel to the surface, the flap must lose its vitality." 3d. That there is a necessary delay in the healing of the %oound. From recent statistics it appears that union is much more prompt, in a given number of cases, in Syme's than in Chopart's amputation. Dr. Van Buren, of New York, has met with union by the first intention ; in a case which recently came under the writers observation, the patient bore her weight on the stump on the fi.fteenth day, union being at that date complete. 4th. That the stum]) is sensitive, and hence not serviceable. Mr. Syme remarks :—" Patients who had sufiered the operation, were able to stand, walk, and even run, without any covering or protection of the stump; and a gentleman present, having had his attention accidentally directed, a few days before, to some boys who were amusing themselves on a slide in the street, discovered that one of them had undergone amputation at tlie ankle joint." Dk. Van Bukkn, of New York, states that a patient recently presented himself at the College clinic of the University Medical College, on whom Mr. Syme