16 VENEKEAL DISEASES. papula3 upon the skin, pnstules npun the sculp, swelling of the glands of the nncha, opaline patches (mucous patches) upon the mucous menibi-ane of tlie mouth and fauces, condylomata about the anus, and alopecia, attended often by general malaise, headache, and fleeting pains in various parts of the body (more particularly in the neighborhood of the j<jints), which are most severe at night. These symptoms are especially worthy of re- membrance, since they are often of so slight a character as not to fix the attention of the patient himself, aud they should be carefully watched for after the occurrence of any venereal ulcer, the diagnosis of which was uncertain. 7. The secretion of secondary symp)toms cannot, as a general rule, be inoculated upon the patient or upon any person under the syphilitic diathesis, but is contagious to individuals free from such taint. This rule is equally true of the secretion of the pri;nary sore or chancre, and is the same that obtains in other infectious diseases, as small-pox, vaccinia, etc. Syphilis contracted from a secondary lesion pursues the same course as when contracted frou] a primary lesion, commencing in both cases with a chancre. 8. The remedies required for the treatment of syphilis are, for the most part, included under the head of mercurials, the compounds of iodine, and tonics. 9. Mercurials exercise their greatest power over the primary sore, and over early or so-called secondary symptoms. The action of the iodides is limited almost exclusively to the late or tertiary lesions. It is a mistake, however, to suppose that the compounds of iodine are alone sulHcient for the permanent cure of even tertiary lesions, which are very prone to relapse, unless mercury has also entered into the treatment. The iodides are, therefore, to be regarded as temporary substitutes for, or as the adjuvants of, mercurials in the treatment of syphilis. They are of special value in syphilitic afiections of'the bones and periosteum ; also in broken-down constitutions, when mercuri- als are inadmissible until a better condition of the system has been secured. 10. The value of tonics in the treatment of syphilis cannot be overrated. Chemical analysis of the blood of syphilitic