AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. T d. ^ft.cr exposure to miliaria, tlie attack of disease is not necessarily immediate; a period of inculxition, varying iVom six to t\\ eiity days, usually intervenes, and during this the indi- vidual may enjoy perfect health. The attack, when it occurs, may assume the form of Intermittent, or Remittent fever, or any of the other forms of miasmatic disease, varying in nature and degree of severity, according to the impressihility of the individual and the virulence of the poison ; or, the amount of poison imbibed may not have been sufficient to cause an ex- plosion of purely miasmatic disease, but only enough to im- press the miasmatic or paroxysmal type upon some intercur- rent malady occasioned by another cause. G. After long exposure to malaria, even tliougli no actual attack of sickness may have occurred, a debilitated condition of health is liable to arise, charactei'ized by a sallow complexion, diminished strength, and impoverished blood; this is known as malarial cachexia. Now, it is a well-established fact in the experience of Ameri- can physicians, that the daily use of a small rpiantity of quinine, say from three to six grains, in one or more doses, by those who are exposed to the danger of malarial poisoning, will in most instances prevent an attack of malarial disease, and that it will always render the disease milder, if it should occur. It will also ])revent the development of malarial cachexia.'" For tlK)se not familiar with this fact, there is ample evidence to be cited, not only in the ]inpular and professional practice of our country, but also froin foreign sources. We may refer to the well-known popularity of "bark and wine" as a "tonic" in unhealthy localities and seasons, in all parts of this country ; to tlie practice generally a<1opted in our mei'chant service tor the Isthmus of Panama, and in vessels trading with other un- liealthy ])orts, of taking quinine daily to avert attacks of fever, and to the frecpient employment of the same preventive during * The medicine may be talion in its simplest form as a powder, in a pill containing one or two grains, or dissolved in water, wine, or spirits. It is generally more accejitable to the soldier in the latter form, hence the recom- mendation of "quinine bitters."