9 moved, by saw or forceps, after due incisions. The limb should be placed in iron splints, and hung on a permanent frame, as affording the greatest comfort, and probable chance of ultimate success. 20. An ankle-joint is to be cut out, unless the tendons around are too much injured, and so are the tarsal and meta- tarsal bones and toes. Incisions have hitherto been too little employed in the early treatment of these injuries of the foot for the removal of extraneous substances. 21. A wound of the principal artery of the thigh, in addition to a gun-shot fracture, renders immediate amputation necessary. In no other part oi the hodj is amputation to be done in the first instance for such injury. Ligatures are to be placed on the wounded artery, one above, the other below the wound, and events awaited. 22. The occuiTence of mortification in any of these cases will be known by the change of color in the sldn. It will rarely occvu- in the upper extremity, but it will frequently do so in the lower. When about to take place, the color of the skin of the foot changes, from the natural flesh color to a tallowy or mottled white. Amputation should be performed immediately above the fractured part. The mortification is yet local. 23. When this discoloration has not been observed, and the part shrinks, or gangrene has set in with more marked appear- ances, but yet seems to have stopped at the ankle, delay is, per- haps, admissible ; but if it again should spread, or its cessation be doubtful, amputation should take place forthwith, although under less favorable circumstances. The mortification,is be- coming, or has become, constitutional. 24. Bleeding to the loss of life is not a common occurrence m gun-shot wounds, although many do bleed considerably ; seldom, however, requiring the application of a tourniquet as a matter of necessity, although frequently as one of precaution. 25. When the great artery of the thigh is wounded, (not torn across,) the bone being uninjured, the suflercr will probably