15 PNEUMONIA. ocfurring- in the natural course of tlie disease. Witli our pres- ent knowledge, preparations of antimony arc not indicated for the oI)ject under consideration. Given for this object, when uncalled for or contra-indicated by circumstances relating to the general condition, they are not merely superfluous, but hurtful remedies ; the injury, of course, being proportionate to the extent to which they are given. It is not hjng since physicians generally deemed it important to give mercury, with a view of promoting resolution, and to push this remedy to ptyalism. But clinical observation has sufficiently shown that absorption of the exuded matter goes on as well without as with mercui-ialization. There is no need, therefore, of incurring the depressing effects of this treatment. And if mercurialization be not needed, it is certainly not de- void of liarm ; for every active remedy is potent either for good or evil, and if not useful, it can hardly fail to be hurtful. Blisters are still too often employed in pneumonia in order to hasten resolution. There is no evidence that they contribute to this object, and they are highly objectionable on account of the annoyance and irritation which they are likely to occasion. Moreover, they interfere with the daily examination of the chest, by means of which alone accurate information respecting the condition of the lung is to be obtained. Remedies to promote expectoration are sometimes considered as important. This is probably based on the idea tliat the ex- pectoration contributes to the removal of the solidifying exu- dation—an idea already stated to be erroneous. Clinical observation shows that resolution may go on with great ra- pidity without any expectoi-ation. It is true that an accumu- lation in the bronchial tubes takes place in some cases, towai-ds the close of life, and doubtless contributes to a fatal result; but the accumulation is due, under these circumstances, to a degree of asthenia, impairing the muscular power necessary for the acts of expectoration, and expectorants are not adequate to afibrd relief. In short, it may fairly be doubted if, with our present knowl- edge, we are able to expedite resolution by any measures eni- plnyed directly and specially for this object. There are grounds