6 PNEUMONIA. place, abundant facts liavc been collected respecting its course when nniiifluenccd by active joedication—the true point of de- parture for the satisfactory study of therapeutics, as applied to aiiy disease. And, in the second place, data have been afforded for judging of the value of different methods of treat- ment. As a consequence, a considerable change has taken place in the opinions and practice of not a few members of the medical profession with respect to the management of pneu- monia. Therapeutical measures which, but a few years ago, were generally regarded as essential to its successful treatment, are now by many deemed often needless and hurtful. On the other hand, measures formerly considered to be uncalled for and. hazardous, are now thought to be highly important in certain cases. Believing that, after making due allowance for a tendency to pass to opposite extremes, which characterizes the fluctuations of medical doctrines, a real and truly impor- tant progress has been made of late in practical views respect- ing this disease, it is not unreasonable to suppose that, of those who have been called by the present contest from civil to mil- itary practice, some may not have given much attention to the subject, and, therefore, adhere to views which, with our present knowledge, are not tenable. Many of the medical officers of the army have seen but little of the disease, in comparison with the opportunities for observation wliich will now be opened in their new sphere of action. Moreover, most of those who are entering upon military experience have seen but little of pneu- monia as it will be presented to them in soldiers occupying the Middle and Southern States. These last-mentioned consider- ations, doubtless, have been in the minds of the members of the Sanitary Commission, at whose instance this Report is submitted. It is hardly necessary to say that the discussion of questions relating, directly or indirectly, to the management of pneu- monia, would be here out of place. The purpose of this Re- port is to premise a few propositions, embodying certain patho- logical facts, having obvious relations to the management of the disease; and, then, with reference to the leading indica- tions for treatment, and the employment of different thera-