25 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. There is another subject wliich your Committee would bring to the notice of the surgical section of the Academy, viz., the injurious consequences resulting from the hasty removal of the sick and wounded by a discomfited and retreating army. Under these circumstances, your Committee would suggest the expediency of leaving the sick and wounded, with a sufficient number of medical attendants, to fall into the hands of the enemy as prisoners of war, in all cases in which there is a large number of patients whose lives would be greatly endangered by the removal, and in which reliance could be placed on the magnanimity of the victorious party. There might be a previ- ous understanding between the belligerent parties, that hospital buildings, or tents, so abandoned, and surmounted by a flag of truce, or some other preconcerted signal, should be safe from attack. There is another subject to which the attention of the section might have been directed at an earlier part of the rej^ort, viz., the importance of a thorough inspection of recruits who pre- sent themselves for admission into the armJ^ The admission of sickly and feeble men into an army is an evil of the greatest magnitude, not merely depriving the government of the ser- vices of such individuals, but exerting an injurious influence upon the health, spirit, and efficiency of their comrades. Every recruit should therefore undergo a most thorough inspec- tion, and if deficient in the physical qualities which are neces- sary for a soldier, he should without hesitation be rejected. A soldier should be a full grown man, and not a boy. The most eligible age for a recruit is twenty to twenty-five years. A soldier should be strictly temperate in his habits, as intemper- ance is one of the most fruitful sources of disease as well as of insubordination and of crime. He should have perfect sight and perfect hearing, as a failure in either of these senses would render him incompetent to perform the duties which are expect- ed of a soldier. He should be smmd in all his vital organs, and hhould have a good degree of muscular development. The medical inspector should examine the recruit, divested of his clothing, investigating the condition of every vital organ, test- ing the sight and hearing, and subjecling t.he head, trnnk,