31 the better preservation of animal food v^'hcn served out in an un- wholesome state by tiie reg:imental quartermasters. As a disinfectant or deodorant for extensive use in masses of putrescent material, and for local purification, fresh charcoal is of acknowledged value. Tlie British Sanitary Commission, in the Crimea, ordered whole ship-loads of peat charcoal, which they used in the progress of their work of purification in the hosjjitals, barracks, or camps in the East. A Eeport of that Commis- sion states that " perhaps the best deodorizing compound was one used by the inspectors in all their works. It consisted of one x>art of peut char- coal, one iKirt of quicJdime, and four parts of sand or gravel." It should be remembered that the preservation of the disinfecting power of char- coal powder depends upon its being both fresh and dry. SuljjJiaie of Lime, Sulphite of Lime, and Porous Clay.—All these sub- stances are valuable absorbents of ammoniacal and sulphuretted efQuvia, and they constitute exceedingly convenient vehicles and auxiliary men- strua for some of the more potent and expensive antiseptics. The much vaunted French disinfectant, known as the disinfecting powder of Messrs. Corne & Demeaux, consists of about 9-1 per cent, of finely ground gypsum and 5 or 6 per cent, of coal-tar or the " heavy oil of coal-tar." McDougall's powder, and the Eidgewood disinfectant, consist of carbolic acid com- bined with the sulphate of lime and porous silicate of alumina, respect- ively, as will be noticed upon a subsequent page. Hypo-sulphite of lime possesses the property of absolutely arresting fermentation or the catalytic processes. The several substances of this first class, and their compounds, particularly those with carbolic acid or coal-tar, are among the most valuable disinfectants, especially when large quantities of cheap and effectual articles of the kind are required. Quicldime.—With sulphuretted and with phosphoretted effluvia, and witli humid vapors, freshly burned lime unites with great avidity, and as an absorbent of moisture and a chemical base for many acids, it is of peculiar value; but lime also eliminates or sets free the ammoniacal gases, and, like the acids of our second class of disinfectants, it is of Zess p)ermanent value than some other agents. It is one of the most convenient antiseptics, and for local applications, as in whitewashing, sprinkling, desiccating damp surfaces or putrescent substances, and ibr temporarily arresting putrefaction, it is invaluable. Lime should be used dry and unslacked, except it be for the special purpose of combining with car- bonic acid gas; for the latter object it should be reduced to a creamy hydrate, and, in overcrowded Avards and barracks, it may be usefiilly employed in tliis way, distributed in shallow plates. Distributed in like manner, sulphuric acid may be employed for diminishing the humidity of the atmosphere in a closed and damp apartment; but for this pur- l)Ose it is usually better to resort to strong currents of air, by mcaus of through and through ventilation, when practicable.