MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. IT injuries occurring under those circumstances. In laborious marches, in obstinate and jjrotracted sieges, in sudden and unexpected assaults, in severe and bloody engagements, tlie militar}^ surgeon is called in rapid succession to the treatment of large numbers of sick and wounded soldiers. There is no time for cahn deliberation and careful preparation ; lie cannot send his prescriptions to an apothecary, nor can he sen 1 to a manufacturer for new instruments or apparatus. The few medi- cines, instruments, and dressings which he requires, must be at hand, or his patients must be deprived of the benefits whicli they would have derived from them. A wise foresight must therefore be exercised in providing such materials as are indis- pensable to the care of the sick and wounded, and in conveying them to every place where they may be needed. All bulky and heavy articles which are not absohitely essential should be dispensed with, on account of the difficulty and delay in con- veying them from place to place. The best way of conveying the ap[)aratus of an army surgeon is a box-cart, similar to those which are often used by peddlers. In going over a country too rough for wheel-carriages, a pair of panniers slung over the back of a horse or mule is the best substitute for a cart. The weight of the panniers with their contents should not exceed 200 lbs. Each surgeon should be provided with a case of amputating and trephining instruments, with scalpels, bistouries, lancets, and other instruments for minor operations. He should always have about his person a good case of pocket instruments, and a canteen containing wine or brandy and water, ready to be used as a cordial in any case of emergency. He should also carry in his pocket a phial containing pills of opium. In the cart or panniers containing his apparatus there should be a supply of sponges, bandages, lint, tow, cotton batting, old linen ur mus- lin for compresses, ligatures, tin basins, splints, adhesive plas- ter, pins, needles, matches, candles, catheters and bougies, a stomach pump, an enema pump, and a suppository syringe. There should be a dozen tourniquets, and the orderly men, who act as assistants to the surgeon, should l)e instructed in their application. There should also be a supply of anesthetics and of medicines suitable tu the emergencies of military life. On