6 COMPOUND FRACTURES. The compound fractures met with by the army surgeon are in a very large majority of cases the result of gunshot; and the improvements in modern fire-arms have given these injuries a much more uniformly serious character than they formerly had. It is very seldom the case now that a ball touches a bone without shattering it; and this does not involve the necessity of a large wound of either the skin or the periosteum,—a fact which modifies not only the diagnosis, but the course and prognosis of gunshot fractures. When amputation is not at once called for, (a matter elsewhere dis- cussed—see Documents F and G,) the surgeon's great object should be to change the compound fracture into a simple one. Hence the wound must be cleansed of all dirt, foreign bodies, balls, bits of clothing, or loose splinters of bone. With regard to these latter, all the best authorities, Malgaigne, Baudens, Macleod, Bryant, Longmore, agree that they ought to be diligently sought for and removed. Dupuytren classified them into— 1. Primary, completely detached by the injury itself. 2. Secondary, so slightly retained by periosteum as to become loose when inflammation is set up. 3. Tertiary, liable to subsequent necrosis. The latter, from their size, shape, or situation, may have to be left in place for a time; the two former should always be extracted as early as possible. The surgeon must use his best judgment in distinguishing between the difi*erent forms of splinters. Haemorrhage should be completely checked, by the ligation of the main artery of the limb, if it cannot be done otherwise. Resection of the ends of the fragments is sometimes necessary, when they project through the wound, or have forced their way through the skin, and cannot be reduced. The sawing should be done obliquely, and in such a way as to favor the accurate fitting together of the cut surfaces. Much trouble from spasm and tension of the muscles is thus obviated, especially when the patient has to undergo transportation. Sutures can only be used in very rare cases, when the wound is a large and clean one; and they should always be amply supported, unless the patient can be kept under the surgeon's eye, by adhesive strips. Bandages ought never to be applied to compound fractures on the field; the best plan is to put the part up in a bundle of straw, with or without extension, or to fasten it to a splint of some kind with broad adhesive strips. In the later stages of the treatment, when there is less hurry, and more conveniences are at hand, the bandage of Scultetus may often be