4 often altered ; tlie colon is most apt to Le displaced, its trans- verse portion occupying the pelvis; and invaginations of tlie large as well as of tlie small intestine are frequent. Sometiine& the peritoneum is injected, and in very rare cases inflamed. Perforation of the bowel is extremely unusual. The contents of the colon are fecal and mucous in the first stage ; but later consist of epithelium, a jelly-like exudation, false membrane^ blood, and pus. The raucous membrane in the small intestine is generally unaltered ; but in the large its color is of various shades, from a rosy red to a dark brown or even black, and is more or less softened in recent cases. Sometimes large fni)gou& granulations occupy the whole area of tlie ulcerated surface- In some violently acute cases of certain epidemics there is a wide-spread exudation of false membrane, wliile the tissue beneath is more or less gangrenous or sloughing. But more commonly the characteristic lesion is chiefly displayed by the mucous follicles. In the earliest stage of the simple acute, and later in cases of the subacute form, there is, along with a general redness and swelling of the mucous membrane, an enlargement of its follicles by the deposit within them of a grayish or yellow- ish granular matter, wliicli, by its increase, appears to deter- mine the ulceration of the follicles themselves, and of more or less of the surrounding mucous membrane and of the subja- cent cellular and even the muscular coats of the intestine- During this process the connecting tissue grows thicker and more dense, as if to resist the advance of the ulcerative process. Between the follicles tlic mucous inenibrane may also be destroyed by the extension of ulceration from them, by primary softening, or, as already intimated, by gangrene. The (irst is the most usual manner. As a consequence, large por- tions of mucous niomlu'anc may be removed, leaving tlie cellu- lar coat bare, or jiariinlly covered by islands of mucous mem- brane. On opening Ihe bowel these arc very apt to be mistaken