19 secondary deposits of pus in various joints. In two of tlie six cases in wliicli cure was completed, tlie operation was per- foi'ined for the removal of scrofulous disease of the articulation between the tarsal bones; and in tlie two others the operation was for frost-bite of the anterior part of the foot. Progress towards health was marked by snppnration along the tendons of the tibialis anticns and posticus, and the peroneal tendons in each of the cases, but not by exfoliation of bone. The posterior part of the os calcis was united firmly with the tibia, generally in about three weeks; but in one instance—the hist in which the operation was performed—union was good at the end of twelve days. I may here remark, that although the os calcis may be diseased at and about its articidation in instances of scrofulous disease of the joints of the tai-sus, it is rarely that the posterior part is rendered too unhealthy to be made use of in the formation of a stump. The advantages of this operation over " Syme's" (the only operation with which it can be com- pared) are, that it may be performed more rapidly as to time, leaves a more vascular flap, forms a longer stump, and produces a firmer pad for the suljject to walk upon. Less time is occu- pied in the operation, for the somewhat troublesome dissection of the skin of the heel from the os calcis is avoided, and the os calcis sawn through instead. Greater vascularity of the flap is secured, for the plantar arteries are divided in the hollow of the foot. The length of the stump is a very important point; it is longer than in Synie's operation, by the portion of the os calcis left on the flap, which should be cpiite one inch and a quarter. In the four instances mentioned, the diflference in length between the foot operated upon and the sound foot, was never more than three eighths of an inch." Mr. Bosk, of the same hospital, who has operated three times, says, " Greater facility and rapidity of execution ; less disturb- ance of the natural relations of tlie parts which are to form the cushion of support; a solid instead of a hollow flap ; and, lastly, a greater length of stump, amounting to at least one inch and