21 MILITARY HYGIKNE AND THERAPEUTICS. attention of an army surgeon is first directed to a number of wounded persons, who liave been brought from the field of battle, it is important to determine the order in which his ser- vices should be rendered to them. In order that the greatest amount of effectual relief may be afibrded, certain rules may be laid down for the guidance of the surgeon under these trying circumstances. The cases to which the first attention of the sur- geon should be given are not those of so severe a character as to be almost necessarily fatal; nor, on the other hand, those which are comparatively slight and unattended Avith danger. But liis first attention should be directed to injuries which are severe and dangerous, but which at the same time afi'ord a good pros- pect of recovery. The cases most urgently requiring imme- diate treatment are those in which there is alarming hemor- rhage, the source of which is not beyond the reach of surgical skill. The cases next in order of urgency, are those in which, from the shock of the injury, there is more or less prostration, requiring the use of cordials and stimulants. Then come the cases of compound fracture, some of these requiring amputa- tion or resection, and others mechanical support to prevent dis- tortion and the irritation arising from muscular spasm, causing spiculfe of bone to penetrate the soft parts. jSText in order come the slighter cases of injury of the viscera, al^^ays attended with danger, but not necessarily fatal. After disposing of those cases which are more or less hopeful, the surgeon may direct his attention to the comfort and relief of the more severe injuries, in which a fatal result is almost certain to ensue. And lastly, he may attend to the minor operations and dressings in cases of injury which are not regarded as dangerous to life. The result of primary amputations at the hip-joint is so uniformly disastrous, that, in the opinion of your Committee, these operations should be discarded from military surgery. If the patient should in any case recover from the shock of the terrible injury which seems to require so formidable an opera- tion as amputation at the hip-joint, the operation may be pei"- formed consecutively with better prospect of success, without diverting the attention of the surgeon, at this period, from a more hopeful class of cases.