9 and several inches on every side of it, by surrounding the chest with firm turns of a broad bandage, or by any other constricting means which may be at hand. Compresses judiciously arranged are sometimes of great use in bringing the pressure to bear upon the exact points needing it. Fractures of the Humerus must be differently treated according to the point at which the bone may have been broken. But it must always be remembered that from the form of the limb the leverage on the frasments is very great, so that the whole member must be well supported. Short- ening must be carefully obviated when the line of division is oblique. Angular splints of wood or pasteboard answer the end best; if these cannot be obtained, a mould of clay or of plaster of Paris may be used, or the straw previously described, as a temporary resource. In making an angular splint, the part intended for the upper arm should be left at least 10 or 12 inches long, so as to reach completely up into the axilla. When the fracture is very high up, the splint being cut to fit the inside of the arm and foreai'm, the elbow being at a right angle, a paste- board cap should be adapted to the shoulder and upper half of the arm; and then, the limb being bound to the splint, the cap should be fixed in place by figure-of-8 turns around it, the body, and the axilla. The object of this is to confine the scapula, and through it the upper fragment. When the shaft is broken at any point in its length, either an inside or an anterior angular splint may be used, one, two or three short pieces being placed on the arm so as to confine it still more closely. If the seat of fracture is low down, close to the condyles, or involving one or both of them, any lateral splint is apt to press the lower fragment out of place; and hence an anterior angular splint is preferred by many surgeons, its angle fitting across the bend of the elbow, and the forearm being in complete supina- tion. But this posture is an unnatural one, and cannot be comfortably endured for any length of time. Hence it is better to combine the inside and anterior angular splints, by tacking a piece of pasteboard of the proper size and shape to the upper or arm portion of an ordin- ary wooden inside angular splint. Or, cutting out the "whole from one piece of pasteboard, we may follow the outline of the inside an- gular splint, but make the upper portion, above the angle, a little more than twice as wide as usual; and then, cutting a slit half way across it, contin- uous with the upper edge of the forearm part, we have a portion which