16 VACCKVATIOX IN AKMIKS. Wdiild cull yom- attention to the question addi'erised, in cir- cular, to members of tiie medical pi-ofesijion in the United ivingdom, and elsewhere, by Mr. Simon, medical ofiicer to the (teneral Board of Health in London, and to the great una- niiiuty in the atHrmative by the eminent authorities to whom it was sent: ''■Have you any doxibt that successful vaccination coivfers on persons subject to its influence, a very large exemption from attachs of smallpox, and almost absolute security ayainst death hy that disease Out of 542 pci-sons to whom this question was addi-essed, including not only the most eminent of British and Conti- nental practitioners, but also foreign governments, through their officials, but two dissenting answers were received; eveiy otlier expressed confidence in the practice. 2. Is the protection permanent, or is it modified ly any circumstance ? That tile i)i'otcctive influence of vaccination is subject to modification, either from the length of time elapsed since the operation or frcim a greater intensity of the vai'iolous infeciioii overriding the protection during certain periods of life, is very generally believed. Dr. CJ. Jl Wood* says: '"It cannot now be denied that a single vaccination does not atiord the pernninent security it was supposed to do. Probably nearly one-half of those vaccinated successl'ully ai'e liable to more or less effect from the variolous contagion ; though it is asserted that when the operation is performed with four or more insei'- tions instead of one, the proportion of the protection is much gri;ater.f It is chiefly during the e|ndemic prevalence or variola that this disposition in vaccinated persons to be aflected by the disease is observed. It has vei-y seldom been noticed to any considerable extent at other times. Another interesting fact is, that children of eight years or under are rarely attacked, that from this time to the age * Practice of Mudicino, vol. i., p. 410. t Medico-Chirurgicul Transactions, xxxvi., 388.