ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. is Before closing this article, perhaps it ina}'- be proper say that some objections have been urged to the general use of the Tour- niquet hy unprofessional persons. It is alleged that the in- strument might be placed on the wrong side of the wound, and in this way do more harm than good. But this objection answers itself, as the most ignorant operator would immediately change the position of the instrument when he found the hemorrhage increased. Another objection which we more frequently hear is that a swelled or puffy condition of the limb is produced by the constriction of the Tourniquet when long applied, rendering it more difficult for the surgeon to perform the subsequent opera- tions of amputation, or the securing of vessels. But we must remember that in most cases the subsequent operations will even- tually be performed above the wound, and so also above the Tourniquet, where swelling and infiltration do not occur. But :his objection also answers itself in a practical way, for some sort of constriction will probably be applied, as there are no men who would prefer to bleed to death rather than impose a difficult* operation on the surgeon. A third objection, and one which appears at first sight more plausible than those just mentioned, is, that mortification and the death of the limb would be induced by leaving the Tourniquet too long in position. But, I cannot conceive of any military necessity for keeping the circulation suppressed by the Tourniquet more than an hour or two; and yet I have seen the circulation as completely abrogated as it can be by means of this instrument for a number of hours at a time without unfavorable results. Nor have I, in any case of practice, judicious or injudicious, ever seen any bad cases of wounds of arteries, without interrupting the collateral circulation in the limb to which it may be applied ; thus allowing reaction to take place, and the removal from the field, of wounded, for many miles before surgical interference is necessary. This instrument was made under my direction by Messrs. Tieman & Co. of this city. Your afifectionate son, ALEX. B. MOTT, M. D., Prof, of Surgical Anatomy, and Surgeon U. S. Vols. Prof. Valentine Mott, M. D., New York.