PNEUMOXIA. 23 so soon, Jit least, as the lieart's action and otlier s_Ympt()nis afford evidence of any failure of tlie vital pDwers. They are to be given more or less freely, according to tlie danger from asthenia, the degree of tr)lerance and tlie appai-ent efiect. They are not to be given as a matter of course, but only when indi- cated, and the quantity given is to be determined by tlie exei"- cise of care and judgment. 12. A supporting diet embraces the animal essences, milk, and farinaceous articles. There is no risk in encouraging the patient to take nutritious food at any time during the progress of the disease; and there is reason to believe that danger from exhanstion may be forestalled by alimentation, together with the early emplo_yment of tonic remedies and alcoholic stimulants. 13. Purgatives, after the first stage, arc not indicated, save when there is inconvenience from ftecal accumulation, and then the mildest remedies which will eli'ect the object are to be pre- ferred. 14. Opium given, not to I'elieve pain or allay cough, but to tranquillize, promote sleep, and render the system more toler- ant of the local affection, is a valuable remedy in jjueumonia. It is indicated by unusual disturbance of the circulation and nervous system, and its good effect is shown by a marked im- provement in all the symptoms. This remedy does not retard the resolution of the local affection. It condnces frequently to improvement as regai'ds delirium. 15. Soothing and suppoiting measures are especially called for in cases of pneumonia distinguished as asthenic and ty- phoid, and when pneumonia occurs as a complication of the eruptive and continued fevers. 16. The occurrence of pericarditis as a complication is an ad- ditional reason for the suppDrting ti'eatment. 17. In convalescence from pneumonia there is not much, if any, danger of relapse, and the recovery is more rapid if a sub- stantial diet be allowed and the patient permitted early to sit up. Austin Flint, M. D., Chairman. A. Clark, M. D. JouN T. Metcalfe, M. D. Benj. W. M"Cready, M. D.