9 Tinporativc the diUy i^; that cvciy soldiei' and every peivou cm[)h)yed in the anuj sliould l)e pi-otectcd l)y vaci-i- natioii, that duty lias been and Avill continue to he bo frequently nei'decled and so nin\'lial)ly executed, that officers Thedniyof vnc- , ' ciniiiint' 'i|>t m lie in cliar2,-c ot troops—especiallv if tliey be recruits fresldy ■I'-s-'iecMm-caii- li-dui the rural districts—Avill need to be watchful aicaiust the outbreaks of small-pnx, and to l.ie prepared promptly to p„ ics or tiie institute effectual measures, not only of domestic rpiarantine for infected persons and things, but of such thorough re- examination and re-vaccination as may l)c found necessaiy for the po'nuanent ]»rotection of all from the variolous in- fection. However thoi'ough may Inive been the prcvi(jns constantwatch- inspections and A'accinations m a given company or corp.-, hh; uppeaiance the possibility of some defects in such duty, as well as the ° probabilities of the presence of new and unprotected persons, ]-eiider it expedient to repeat such measures. To officers in charge of recruits tor the armv, we earnestly importance or " . ' early vnccinaiiim recommend that, at the earliest practicalde hour after reach- of i-'.-cruUs. ing the lirst place of rendezvous, all men in their care be eti'ectually protected by vaccination. (Tcneral sanitary measures, and the isolation or domestic „."?",^:,''r *j ' of specml sum- quarantine of patients and their clothing, should apply alike ["''■*'p,4ve"'t'""he to small-pox, measles, scarlatina,, and other febrile conta- a'^'i;','if,,'a^^^^ gions ; and, n(»twitlistanding the fact that certain epidemic inlluences may prevail, it is not the less true that intelli- gent]}' directed sanitary measures against tl e s{)urces of these nuisances are sure to be rewarded with good results. The value of such measures against fijphiiK and (jdnf/rene are popularly (-(jnccded, and the f )llowing cases will serve to illustrate the imi)ortance and utilitv of specific measures to Extensiverrev- ' ■ t alence oT uoih limit the prevalence of exantheinatous diseases in camps : smaii-p..x ,in,i A short time ]irevious to the battle of Chancellorsville, the ime"'in uieiieu. regiment of Maine volunteers had in hospital and upon its sick list, npAvards of eighty cases of small-pox. The same regiment liad thirty men sick with measles at one time on its hospital roll at Antietam a few days subsecpient to the u-rcat battle there, in Seiiteniber, 1S02. Orders for ' . . ^ . • • i.1 1'''^ results or transportation, from its first remlezvous, to jom the army neKic-ciint,' sani- , ^ • • i ' measures. were recei\-cd while the measles were beginning to ajipear in one company. No timely and effectual measures were