AGAINST MALARIOUS DISKASES. 11 was limited, and the su])ply luicertaiii, and evei-j man at the post was liaviiig liis turn of disease. To meet tlie emei'ij;ency, a quantity of quinine hitters was made in the foUowini;' man- ner: Tlie half of a barrel of whiskey was drawn off into a second barrel, and they were both filled with the baric of the dog-wood* and wild cherry, obtained from the neighitoring hammock, and dried in the sun. A few ounces of quinine were added to each l)arrel, with the dried peel of a dozen native oranges. From one to two ounces of this preparation was given to every man at the post, morning and evening, with the effect, in a very short time, of rendering the relapses of fever less frequent and mihler in their character, lengtlioiiing the interval between the attacks, and in many instances, pi'c- venting tlieir occurrence entirely during its use. It may be inferred from the above statements that the i)re- ventive use of quinine is an economical measui'e, saving not oiil}' the healtli and services of the men, but reducing also tlie expenditure of the medicine, for the use of a very small (pnui- tity daily will prevent an attack of disease, for the cure of which a quantity much larger in the aggregate would proljably be required. Uur excellent colleague, Di'. J. S. Newberry, has had lai-ge experience in the preventive employment of <piiiiine against fevers on the Isthmus of Panama, and in various localities in the "Western country, and gives his testimony strongly in favor of its use. He is of opinion, however, that the constant use of the remedy diminishes its powei-, and that it is advisable to cease taking it at intervals; for exam])le, to take it for two weeks, and then omit ibr one week. On this point, as we shall shortly see, the weight of evidence is rather against this oi)inion. In one of the IJritish Navy Medical Reports—Isn. XV., " 0)1 the lyroplujlactic ivfluence of quinine,'" by Alexander Bryson, M. D., E,. N.—the following statements occur rf- * The bark of the dog-wood [Coriius Florida) is one of the Ix^st substitutes fur Peruvian J3ariv. The wild-cherry baric (Pninus Virgiiiiana) is a well- known tonic. t Medical Times and Gazette, London, January, 1854.