u should be begun as soon as possible. The restoration of but slight mobility is, however, to be expected. HEAD OF THE FEMUR. Even when the upper part of the femur has been shot through, rotation outwards and crepitus are not always pres- ent, and sometimes very considerable power of flexion and extension remains. The degree of injury and the condition of the parts after a bullet-wound of the hip-joint are indica- ted by still more inconclusive symptoms, and are as difficult to determine as the cases are certain to terminate fatally. "Picture to yourself," says Mr. Guthrie, " a man lying with a small hole, either before or behind, in the thigh,— with no bleeding, no pain, nothing but an inability to move the limb, or to stand upon it,—and think that he must in- evitably die in a few weeks, worn out by the continued pain and suffering attendant on the repeated formation of matter burrowing in every direction, unless his thigh be amputated at the hip-joint, or he be relieved by the operation of excis- ion, Avhich, I insist upon it, ought first to be performed." The cases permitting this operation are of infrequent occur- rence, and are confined almost exclusively to bullet or shell wounds, involving the neck of the femur, or the ti'ochanters, or which fracture the shaft in their vicinity. But ten instances in which the head of the femur has been removed for traumatic cause have ever been published. Seven of these were performed in the Crimea, and of the entire number but one recovered. The chances of recovery after disarticulation in military practice may be inferred from the statement that the opera- tion was performed by the English fourteen times, ^and by the French thirteen times, in the Crimea, without a single recovery, and in the Schleswig-Holsteiu campaign seven times, with but one successful result. Which of these alternatives, then, is to be adopted ? By following an expectant course, and trusting to the resources of nature, an almost invariable mortality will ensue. It is