15 VENEREAL DISEASES. tion of a chancre six liours after its first appearance, has failed to avert general symptoms. The period of incubation possessed by the true chancre, and the fact that it is not inoculable upon the patient, point to the same conclusion. Experience also proves that the cicatrization of chancre, un- like that of a chancroid, is hastened by the internal use of mer- cury. Tliis sore, tliei'efore, demands the same internal treat- ment as general syphilis. 3. The same form of local dressing may be nsed for the true chancre as for the chancroid. 4r. Induration of the neighboring lymphatic glands (indu- rated bubo) is one of the most valuable indications of an infect- ing chancre, and is always present, except, perhaps, in very rare instances. This bubo is conimoidy free from inflammatory action, and hence may pass unnoticed by the patient. It de- mands no special treatment, except in those unusual cases in which inflammation and suppuration take place, when the same treatment should be adopted as that ah-eady recommended for inflammatory buboes. Tl:e persistency of the induration for a long time after the primary sore has healed, is of great value in indicating the seat of the sore, and in unravelling the history of obscure cases. 5. There is always an interval between the appearance of the chancre and of the general manifestations of syphilis. This period of incubation of general sj'mptoms, so called, is fixed within certain bounds, like tlie incubation of other infectious diseases. Its average duration is six weeks; it rarely exceeds thi'ee, and never six months ; its shortest duration is about tliree weeks. A venereal ulcer will, therefore, be followed l)y gen- eral symptoms, if at all, probably within three, and certainly within six months. It is to be understood that this rule applies only to cases in whicli the natural course of the disease has not been interfered with by specific treatment. The administration of mercury for the primary sore may retard or altogether pre- vent the appearance of general symptoms. 6. Early general symptoms, especially in the absence of treatment of the preceding chancre, are very uniform in their ciharactei', and commonly consist of an eruption of blotches or