14 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC " The following instances will tond to show the benuficial influence of qui- nine, as a preventive in coast-fever. The boats were dispatched with thirty two officers and men up the llio Ponga, and remained in the river for two days and nights; one ounce of quinine wine (four grains to the ounce) was given daily to each person ; between the twelfth and fourteenth day after leaving the river, four slight cases of fever occurred, which readily yielded to treatment. In an- other instance the boats were away up the Lagoon, at Lagos, with thirty-four officers and men, for seven or eight days; a dose of quinine was given to each etery other day only, and seventeen of the tliirty-four were afterw ards attacked with severe remittent fever. Again, one officer and one man were living on shore at Sierra Leone, for eight days, awaiting the arrival of a man-of-war; neither took any quinine, and ten days after they arrived on board their shiji, both had remittent fever. " It is not to be supposed that quinine will prevent the occurrence of fever in every case, but in a sufficient number to be of the utmost benefit; and the fever occurring in those cases in which it has been employed as a preventive, is sure to be of little moment." From these quotations, which miglit be extended, if space permitted, it is evident tliat the power of quinine as a preven- tive of malarial disease, is recognized in the British naval ser- vice; there is also abundant evidence on record of its acknowl- edgment by the army authorities. In a Report on the Topography of the Military Stations in British Guiana,'' by Surgeon-major 11. C. KiiAjjK, of the Army, the following recommendation occurs:* " As a prophylactic measure, I woidd urge the advisability of administering quinine to the men, more particularly dui'ing the rainy seasons and the preva- lence of an epidemic." During the preparations for hostilities in China, in 1851), a series of suggestions were submitted to the consideration of the Minister of State for War, by the Director-general of the Army Medical Department, amongst which we find the fol- lowing : "4. That a stock of quinine wine be provided, in order that a ration of it may be given to the men (at the recommendation of the principal medical olK- cer), previous to and during the unhealthy months, or w hen the soldiers are required t ) proceed up the rivers, or on being encamped in the vicinity of * Statistical, Sanitary, and Medical Reports for the year 1859 (Army Medical Department), presented to both Uouses of Parliament, by command of her Majesty. London, 18G1, p. 243.