30 iSoIuhh sails that are. particu- 1 7 , -1 n J- ,■ I Nitrate of Lead larly available for arresting 2^>'0- ^„ , . ^ , .,• 1 J- Gliloridu of Zinc cesses or decomposition, and for controlling pihosjjhuretted and sul- phuretted gases. Proto-Cliloridc of Iron, Proto-Sulpliate of Iron. Antiseptics that act diffusivehj and Chlorine Gas, rapidly, though less permanently \ Hypochlorite of Soda [^Labarra- than some others. Active in destroy- \ que's soluiion]. ing compound gases. J Chloride of Lime. The most prompt and efficient antiseptic known. Bromine. Antiseptic, and of great power as an oxidizer, and as an availaUe ). Permanganate of Potassa." source of ozone. Antiseptic and deodorant; capable "J of a great variety, extent, and econo- \ Carbolic Acid and Coal-tar com- my of applications, and acting luith \ pounds. considerable energy and permanency. J Destructive of contagious virus and all transportable infections. Heat. Destructive of Yellow Fever miasma, and of the malaria that \ Frost. produces the " Paludal Fevers." Considered theoretically, we may regard all disinfecting agents under the following heads, and perhaps this would be the more scientific ar- rangement of them:—1. Absorbents of moisture and of noxious effluvia ; 2. Oxidizers [ozone the most active], and Z'eo,'i;iy!2e?'s; 3. Other chemical agents that break up noxious compounds ; 4. Agents that form indestruc- tible compounds with putrescent materials ; or that destroy cell-life and the cryptogamic and infusorial organisms. But as the present state of chemical and medical knowledge on\y enables us to make such general statements respecting the theoretical action of disinfectants, we will follow our first classification by a few practical statements concerning each of the articles mentioned. Charcoal.—Freshly burned and broken, this substance will absorb from 10 to li2}ercent. its own weight of gases and moisture from the atmosphere during the period of 2-i hours; and it is capable of absorbing 00 times its own volume of ammonia, or 55 times its own volume of sulphuretted hydrogen. Properly applied, charcoal is an arrester of pu- trefaction, and, as such, it is worthy of more extensive employment in