VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 17 from some very remarkable cases which eame under his notice, and in the pix'seiit (Uxy thei'e are many authoj-ities of u-reat re- pute in favor of tliis view." Mr. Simon, in tlie work ah-eady quoted, states that in Paris nearly one-third of the whole deaths from smallpox occurred between the age of twenty and thirty, indicating, as he remarks, an appalling amount of p(»6t- vaccinal small[)ox. He further states that what chiefly attracted attention was that persons who had been vaccinated ten or fifteen yeai-s ago, and who during this interval had, perhaps, repeatedly resisted smallpox, would at length, in a certain proportion of their number, yield to the infection. This had most frequently happened during the times when smallpox was severely epi- demic among the unvaccinated, and when large masses of per sons with vaccination of many years were exposed to the test of a strong ejudemic influence. Under this ordeal, it became evident that, lor some vaccinated persons the insuscieptibility confei-red by cowpox was not of life-long duration. And from a careful analysis of cases it was shown that this lessened se- curity of certain vaccinated persons bore at least somi' pro- })ortion to the number of years which, in each case, had elajised since vaccination, for there were not materials to pi'ove any uniform rate of increase from year to year, and the increase, such as it was, apparently continued up to thirty years of age, after which period it seemed that the liability to contract small- pox underwent a continuous decline. Thus, Professor Jleim, taking 1,055 cases of modified or unmodified smalljiox in vac- cinated persons, distinguislied them under thirty-five heads, corresponding severally to the thii-ty-five years which had elapsed since vaccination. When this is divided into thi'ce successive parts, one for the first twelve years after vaccination, one for the next seventeen, and one for i\\Q following six years, It appears that the average number for each year is, in the first division, 12; in the second division, 48; in the third, 15. A calculation of similar materials made by Professor Retzius,* with respect to 961 cases in the Stockholm hospital, gave the * Gaz. Mi'd. do Paris, 1843.