12 Pirogoff's Method. O^yeraiion.—The following description of tins metliod is taken from a London Medical Journal, and was translated from the author:—"I commence my incision close in front of the outer malleolus, carry it vertically downwards to the sole of the foot, then transversely across the sole, and lastly obliquely upwards to the inner malleolus, where I terminate it a couple of lines anterior to the malleolus. Thus all the soft parts are divided at once quite down to the os calcis. I now connect the outer and inner extremity of this first incision by a second semilunar incision, the convexity of which looks forward, car- ried a few lines anterior to the tibio-tarsal articulation. 1 cut through all the soft parts at once down to the bones, and then 2)roceed to open the joint from the I'ront, cutting through the lateral ligaments, and thus exarticulate the head of the astra- galus. I now place a small narrow amputation saw obliquely upon the os calcis behind the astragalus, exactly upon the sus- tentaculum tali, and saw through the os calcis, so that the saw passes into the first incision through the soft parts. Saw care- fully, or the anterior surface of the tendo Achillis, which is only covered by a layer of fat and a thin fibrous sheath, might be injured. I separate the short anterior flap from the two malleoli, and saw through them at the same time close to their base. I turn this flap forwards, and bring the cut surface of the OS calcis in apposition with the articular surface of the tibia. If the latter be diseased it is sometimes necessary also to saw ofi'from it a thin slice with the malleoli." Pirogofi- believes also that the tendons should not be cut oft" too short, in other words " not too near the spot where their synovial sheaths are cut through; their ends should rather pro- ject a little. If they are cut too short they conceal themselves m the fibrous canal, or what is worse, when the limb is moved they slip upwards out of their sheaths." He adds :—" I fear nothing so much as this, namely, when the belly of the muscle