16 PNEUMONIA. for believing tliat measures having i-eference to the general condition of the patient are tlie most etticient means of acting on tlie local affection. Second. As regards measures having reference to the gen- eral condition of the patient. Tlie most important of the pi-in- ciples of treatment in pneumonia fall under this head. Eeso- lution of the local affection may take place more or less slowly, but it will take place if the patient do not succumb. The danger in severe cases is generally not from the amount and persistence of the solidification of lung, but from the failure of the vital powers before the resolution is accomplished. Pure pneumonia is as much a self-limited affection as the essential fevers; divested of complications and accidents, it runs a def- inite career, and ends in restoration, if life be sufiiciently pro- longed. The exceptions to this statement are the rare instances in which the affection runs into the purulent stage. In the majority of fatal cases, as already stated, death is attributable more to asthenia than to apncea. These considerations, to- gether with the results of clinical experience, enforce the im- portance of the supporting treatment in pneumonia. To support the powers of life, is the leading general indica- tion in the second stage of pnenmi_jnia. This indication, in urgency, varies much in different cases. In general terms, it is urgent in proportion to the danger from asthenia. It should govern the treatment in those cases distinguished as asthenic, and whenever there are grounds for distrust of the adequate- ness of the vital powers to carry the patient safely through the disease. It is a serious mistake to defer supporting measures until the symptoms denote imminent danger from failure of the powers of life. If dcferi'ed until then, they will probably be too late. The observing and skilful practitioner will foresee and endeavor to forestall a degree of failure attended with im- minent danger. The constitution of the patient, his previous health, and his habits, are to be taken into account in judging early of the ability to sustain the disease. Other things being equal, in a warm climate jiatients are less able to sustain it than in cold or temperate climates; supporting treatment, .herefore, is oftener and earlier called for in the former than in