11 Before proceeding to speak of the therapeutics of miasmatic fever, it may, for t!ie sake of brevity, he well to ^-lance at the dilferences between the intermittent an<l the two other types mentioned. In the remittent form,-''^ the difference may not and probably would not be recognised by the physician, until the time should have arrived for tlie occurrence of the sweating stage. This may appear imperfectly or copiously ; but instead of the relief wliich tlie patient should experience during the intermission, there is only a diminution of the unpleasant symptoms. The pulse contiunes to beat rapidly, the headache and other neuralgic pains remain—usually with diminished intensity—the thirst, anorexia, and malaise are still complained of; and in the course of a short time, the phenomena of the hot stage are reproduced, sometimes with, sometimes without the preceding chill. Once or twice in the twenty-four hours— morning and evening—there occurs this temporary ameliora- tion of symptoms {remission), followed l)y a reappeai'ance of the febrile phenomena {cxacerTxitions). The type may be quo- tidian, tertian, or double tertian—more frequently the first or third than the second. In some cases, so slight is the remis- sion, that the form may be regarded as continued. Should there be chills ushering in the exacerbations, the former are apt to be less marked, at the end of each remission, until they, finally, disappear. From the long continued congestion of the stomach, pro- bably, there is more apt to be severe nausea, vomiting, or epi- gastric pain and tenderness, than in intermittent fever. We may say the same of all the symptoms which have been described as belonging to the exacerbation. Ptcmittent fever niay terminate spontaneously, in the course of two weeks, or it may last ibr thirty or forty days. On an average, we may expect convalescence at the end of a fortnight, * Synonyms—Bilious Fever, Bilious Remittent, Luke Fever, Country Fever, Walcheren and African Fevers.