19 seifiiKMit oi'tlie articular sni't:u;o ot'tlu- Ijouc reiiiainiiiL!,' unin- jured, (such hciuii- the case,) is also to l)e I'cmoved, and ou IK) account is tlie patella to be left, its riserulness is forever destroyed hy the operation, aiul its presence is liable to ex- cite disease in the bones, and protract the treatment. The limit to which the excision may be cari'ied is a narrow one, for, to say nothing' ol' the extreme shcu'tening, if it: exceed the expanded enlargements of the extremities of the bone, tiiere will be a too small basis of support at the point of anchylosis to insure safety and usefulness in the limb pre- served. After-Treat.mkxt. — Absolute immobility during the after-treatment is all inijiortant. T'erhaps no means of at- taining this end can be more elfectual than the use of silver or iron wire sutures applitnl at the time of operation by means of a drill carried obliquely through the edges of both bones ou each side of the limb; the ends being twisted, the bones are brought into lirm and close contact. At the end of six weeks the wire may be cut and drawn out by maiu force. It is not known that this method of securing immo- bility has been attempted in traumatic cases, l)ut its success in operations for disease suggests the propriety of its trial. The policy, however, which must govei-u the surgeon in the mauagen\ent of these cases should be one of extreme caution, free from meddlesomeness, and dii'ected to saving the life of his patient rather tlian the usefulness of the limb. The ap- plication of a well-padded posterior splint is in no case to be omitted ; and in a camp hospital after the first few weeks, wlien swelling has subsided, and the in:imediate dan- ger to life appears less imminent, the proper position and repose of the limb may sometimes be efficiently secured by a starcli bandage, in which an aperture is left corresponding with tlie wound. An apparatus of some kind, wdiich per- haps will often have to be .extemporized by the surgeon, is, however, absolutely necessary until sufficient consolidation has taken place to admit of handling the limb without risk of disturbing the bones. During the second dressing, dis-