MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 16 circumstances as the better class of laboring men at home. It would be very desirable that there should be at least one good cook for every company of soldiers, as the wholesonieness of their food depends very much on the manner in which it is prepared. General Scott is reported to have said, that a man who cannot make good bread is not fit to be captain of a com- pany. An ample supply of good water, for drinking and cooking, is a matter of great importance to the health and comfort of soldiers. It would be well if every regiment were supplied with a distilling apparatus, by means of which the water of marshes or even of the ocean could be purified. Dis- tilled water, agitated so as to mix with it a sufficient quantity o*' air, might often be substituted with great advantage for the impure and unwholesome water which soldiers are com- pelled to drink. Great care should be taken to guard against the excessive use of alcoholic drinks. It would be well for the young men in our armies to make no use of these beverages, except when they are prescribed for medicinal pmrposes. There can be no reasonable doubt that the health of ar- mies has been in many instances greatly impaired, and that mukitudes of valuable lives have been lost, in consequence of the insufficient quantity or the bad quality of the food which has been furnished. The errors which have been committed in this respect have sometimes been due to mistakes at head- quarters, sometimes to a want of knowledge or of attention on the part of the commissaries of regiments, and sometimes to the knavery of contractors, who have committed wholesale murder by depriving the soldiers of the full supply of good food which they have engaged to furnish, and for which they have received ample compensation. It is not improbable that the Austrian army was defeated at Solferino in consequence of the soldiers being exhausted by long fasting, the Commissary General having appropriated to his own use the funds which were furnished him for the purpose of providing rations for the army. It is important that the rations of the soldiers should, under ordinary circumstances, be issued daily. AVhen rations are distributed at one time for several days, there is often at first an unnecessary waste, in consequence of which the soldiei-s af-