IT KNEE-JOINT. The gravest symptoms follow the penetrution of the knee- joint by u gun-shot missile. Macleod says: ''1 have never mot with one instance of recovery in which the joint wan distinctly ojjened and the bone forming it much injnred, un- less the limb was removed ■ ^ have conversed with man}' persons, of large experience, on the subject, but never heard of any case recovering in wliich the diagnosis of fracture of the epiphysis was without a doubt." Esmareh declares that "all gun-shot injuries of the knee-joint in which the epiphysis of the femur or tibin has l)een affected demand immediate amputation of the thigh. ' Fractures of the patella, in which the joint is not otherwise implicated, are, however, an exception to thisgenen^ rule, and authorize attempts at the preservation of the limb without operation. Whether excision may be adopted ^vith any propriety as a substitute for amputation in the class of injuries above re- ferred to, statistics unfortunately do not enable us to decide. Only six instances are known in which this joint has been excised for gun-shot injury. One,—complete excision and a secondary operation,—performed in the Crimea, proved fatal after twentj'-eight days, from exhaustion and diarrhoja. A second occurred in the Indian campaign of 1857-58, when a native soldier underwent amputation of the left thigh and excision of the right knee, and died the next evening, with symptoms of shock. The third case, one of partial excision, the end of the femur alone being removed, was performed three days after the injury, during the Schleswig-IIolstein campaign, and terminated fatally a month after the opera- tion, from tubercular disease and pyaemia. A fourth case, of which no details are given, proved fatal from pytemia within a few days of the operation. Of two other cases oc- curring in civil practice, the wounds being from shot-guns, one was fatal from tetanus, two days after the operation, and the other recovered at the expiration of three months. Of six other cases of excision for incised wounds, compound 2