14 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. In liot weather, the heads of tlie soldiers should be protected by means of straw hats or of havelocks. V. Supply and Preparation of Food and Drhxks. This is a subject of great importance to the health and effi- ciency of armies, and the neglect of which is apt to be followed by the most disastrous consequences. It is highly important not only that the supply of food should be ample, but that its quality should be good, and that it should be in such a form that it can be prepared for use as speedily and with as little labor as possible. Hard biscuit or pilot-bread may be furnished alternately with soft bread; and care should be taken to pre- vent the use of any bread of inferior quality. Butter and cheese may be added with the morning and evening meal, on which occasion coffee or tea should also be provided. The coffee Avhich is furnished to the men should be already roasted and ground, so that it can be i)repared with little labor. There should always be a sufficient allowance of sugar and milk. Where fresh milk cannot be obtained in sufficient quantities, solidified milk may be used as a substitute. There should be a regular allowance of meat and vegetables at dinner, whenever it is practic;ible to furnish theiii. Soldiei-s shoukl nut be confined for a lung time to salted meat; but fresh meat should always be abowed whenever it can be obtained. The use of iVesh vegetables is of very great importance as a means of gnariling against scurv}-. There are many herbs or weeds growing in the fieUls or by the roadsides, whi(;h can be employed ibr this purpose when better vegetables cannot be obtained. Thus, the French sohliers in the Crimea derived the greatest advan- tages from the use of thuideUon (Leontodon Tai'a.xaeum), dressed with oil and vinegar, and eaten as a salad. Fruits should also be provided in tlieii' season, either in a fresh or dried state. When fresh vegetables cannot he obtained, their ]>lace may be in |)art supplied by the use ul' x'egetables desie- cated in a rarified atmosphere. There seems to be no oood reason why soldiers should not be fed as well, under ordinary