23 2d. The indwidual operation should he determined l>y the Serviceahleness of the Stuvip.—This question iuvolvcfi, accord- ing to previous rules in determining the puint of election in amputations, the social condition of the patient. The poor man's and the rich man's leg have long decided the point of amputation of the lower extremity. This distinction is made in the belief that the poor nuui will either have no artificial appliance to his stump, or one of the rudest character, while the I'ich man will avail himself of the hi<2;hest decree of art to compensate his loss. This question must always present itself to the military surgeon, if the rule remains valid, for in the ranks of every army we find, as in society at large, persons filling every grade of social position. In our time, when mechanical surgery is doing so much to supply the maimed Avith serviceable limbs, and in this country, where public and private charity is so lavish in the relief of sufiering, and the poorest may, by economy, accumulate wealth, the question may Avell be mooted if this old rule in operative surgery should longer govern the surgeon. Especiall}'' may we doubt its propriety, when the subject of the operation is under middle life. The instances are becomino; more and more frequent where persons in humble circumstances, who have had a limb removed according to this rule, have subsequently been able to supply themselves with artificial aids, and have bitterly regretted that they have been deprived of the opportunity by the surgeon. It cannot be denied that in such cases the rule has operated to the serious disadvantage of the patient. We must conclude, therefore, that Avith American surgeons this rule should be modified thus: Under cdl circumstances, except where poverty and aduayiced age, and confirmed dissolute habits, so comhine in the indivi- dual, as to render it certain that mechanical appliances would 1)6 of little service, give the patient the stump best adapted to the most useful artificial limb. The two following questions grow out of this conclusion :