21 beginning of the next exacerbcation. When indicated, the nee of opium is of great service, in combination with the quinine. It is desirable to maintain the influence of tlie hitter remedy for at least two days after the disappearance of the fever. Two grains every three hours will usually be found sufficient to efiect the desired end. After this time, the convalescent should be treated as has already been indicated in the remarks on intermittent fever. So much has been said with reference to the absolute neces- sity of venesection, for the successful treatment of remittent fever, that it is deemed proper to state the opinion of the best authorities with respect to it. By many, the use of the lancet is discarded, except in very rare cases; by nearly all, its employment is restricted to the early stages, and to a single depletion ; whilst many of our most experienced and trust- worthy observers believe that the use of cold alFusion is com- petent to produce every result that would be expected from phlebotomy, with much more certainty and with much less danger to the patient. The fear of failing to bleed in inflam- mations is much diminished, since modern pathology has served to increase our acquaintance with the natural history of disease. How often have the subsidence and disappearance of supposed encephalitis been witnessed under the influence of efficient doses of sulphate of quinine ! How often the amendment and resolution of a pneumonia in like cases of miasmatic poisoning! JSTo better rule can be given for applying the cold afl'usion than that laid down by Dr. Dickson :—" Seat your patient in a convenient receptacle, and pour over his head and body, from some elevation, a large stream of cold water. Continue this until he become pale, or the pulse lose its fulness, or his skin become corrugated, or he shiver." He is then to be wiped dry and put to bed. A remission, thus artificially produced, will follow, and may be reprocured in the same manner, if neces- sary. In case the chilly feelings continue too long, the length of the next aflusion should be lessened.