23 pon Purity of the local atnioppliere, and propei- cleanliness of vigilance and person, and of (jnarters, can Le preserved in hospitals and ne"essa?y tX'i-e^ transports only by the most vigilant effort and exact dis- coniXSon'i'n eipline. In hospitals, the vitiating inflnences are peculiar tansplnl''''"'^ and mnnerous. Said Baron Lakrey, before the French Academy, last year, " The natural excretions of the patients, their fcetid breath and perspiration, the expectoration of gases and liquids, alvine dejeotions, evacuations, and nrinary fistulo3, all these joined to accidental secretions, thesuppu- Earon Larrey's ration of wounds and ulcers, and the putridity of hospital [hirsuiject." gangrene, are so many mephitic beds from which may arise the most formidable epideniics in field and general hospitals, on the trail of armies in campaigns, exhausted by all the fatigue and privations of war; and above all, in the disas- trous conditions of encoinbremenf (crowding). We need not enumerate the sources of a vitiated atmos- phere and consequent endemic infections in camps and bar- racks ; they are known to every soldier. M. Baudens' re- mark that the infection of fever in the Crimea, " had one foot in the camp and one in the field hospital," is fully ex- plained when he states that " the quarters for troops shine with the greasy filth of daily neglect," and that "on re- Results of neg- view day, the fine battalions left, as they passed, the marked aad camp's.'''"'''^ and well-known stench of the barracks." sr. Baudcns' re- maik. In transports, whether with troops for the field, or with ^^^^j ^^^^ sick and wounded men, the perils of overcrowding, bad ven- f.is!,"",',.;"^^^ '^o^ tilation, uncleanliness, bad diet, and want of exercise, com- °ecTed"tran'sport3." bine to induce the worst degrees of infection, and to dimin- ish the vital powers of all who suffer sucli privations. Fortunately the greater part of the water transportation during the present war has been by the river and bay ^^vantage for steamers, Avhose ample decks and open ventilation have h"'e'-'and ba/ been the best of safeguards against the diseases that nu)st infest transport ships. Yet even at this stage of progress of the national arms southward, numerous instances liave occurred which illustrate tlic peculiar perils of transports even under favorable circumstances. The following passage is from the report of Surgeon J. 11. Bkintox, upon the hos-