9 TYPHOID FEVER. our large towns and cities, are more than ordinarily snbjeet to this fever. Forms and Vakieties.—Tliis disease is liable to present itself under different phases or forms in different seasons, and in different localities, and often, at different times, in the same season and localit}'. Such are in general the inflamma- tory or sthenic, and the debilitating or asthenic. Bat these differences in form, it is believed, belong rather to the first stages of the disease, adynamia almost always marking its later periods. There is also a latent form of the fever, in which tlie symptoms from the outset are of the mildest character. The patient, unable to fix upon any particular day as that on which his illness commenced, feels ill, weak, languid, chilly, loses his appetite, and suffers from slight frontal headache. lie is listless, unapt for his usual occupations, lounges about, per-, haps lies down for a part of the day, and, feeling better, makes an effort to exert himself, goes out, but soon returns fatigued, and lies down again. At uight there is generally some in- crease of the symptoms denominated febrile, the pulse rises, the skin is hot, and the patient is restless and uneasy ; some days he is better, some days worse ; there is no discovei'able lesion, there uiay be a little cough, Avith slight sonorous rale, or there may be some leaning towards diarrhcea, with a little pain and tenderness in the abdomen. There exists no tangible disease, but the symptoms continue for days and weeks, with- out abatement or much variation. Such cases may terminate in two ways—slowly after a month or five weeks, in the gi-adual disaj^pearance of all the symptoms and returning health—or, suddenly, with intense abdominal pain and vomit- ing, extreme distension, coldness of surface, sinking, and death from perforation of the intestines. Diagnosis.—This must be rational, not absolute—that is, not founded on a few positive physical signs. There is no one symptom,—there arc no two or three symptoms which, in themselves, are characteristic of the disease ; nor is there any