14 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. effects follow the continued application of the Tourniquet, that could be fairl}'' and truly attributed to that instrument. It is true that many of the severely wounded, after some days, will die of typhoid symptoms, which are attributed to phlebitis and pyemia but I choose rather to perceive the primary cause of death in such cases, to be very generally an excessive loss of blood at the time of receiving the wound, or the repeated occurrence of secondary hemorrhage. But if all these objections were cogent and true, they amount to nothing when brought into conflict with that great law of the medical profession, which directs and determines all our art, namely, to prolong life for any time, however short, by any means, however expensive. " Sire,^' said the great Baron Larrey, with unswerving integrity, to the first Napoleon on a memorable occasion, at the siege of Jaffa, "/< is my avocation to prolong human life, and not to destroy it.'''' So, in any case of serious hemorrhage, contingencies, remote and uncertain, are not to be taken into the account, but the urgent necessities of the moment are to be met at once, by measures the most convenient and effective. Even in those cases where ultimate death is inevitable, it is better to prolong life for a time than to see the patient helplessly perish in our hands; and I believe that, in any case of hemorrhage, it is better to suffer the temporary evils of the Tourniquet, than to permit any serious loss of blood, and consequent shock to the nervous system. Many of the low forms of fever that prevail in hospitals have their origin in the debility which has been produced by hemorrhage from wounds. The immediate effects of loss of blood upon the nervous system are very apparent, in that suspension of the faculties of the mind which is known as fainting, and from which the per- sons, in most cases, soon recover. But where hemorrhage is ex- cessive in the first instance, or frequently recurs, a permanent affection of the nervous sys|.em is induced, indicated by a flutter- ing pulse, pain in the head, flushed face, ringing in the ears, irri- tability of the stomach, and other symptoms of typhoid fever. It is to the nervous system that we must look for any explana- tion of the intermitting and remitting character of fevers, or even those slight remissions that attend fevers in their most continued