8 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC the last twenty years in unhealthy localities in tlie West and South by planters, for themselves, their families, their over- seers, and negroes. A communication kindly furnished by the Pi-esident of tlie Panama Railroad Company contains facts of much weight and interest: " Soon after my connection with the Panama Railroad Company, in 1853, my attention was directed to tlie unusual amount of sickness wliich prevailed among the crews of vessels visiting Aspinwall. On inquiry. I could not learn tliat any of the crews who remained in that port for several days together were wholly exempt from attacks of fever. And it irequently occurred that a large part of tliem would be prostrated, especially within a few days after leaving port. This state of things induced me to investigate the whole subject, with particular reference to providing a remedy for so serious an evil. I soon be- came satisfied that the remedy was to be lound in the regular, habitual use of quinine in moderate doses, for a few days prior to the arrival of vessels at As- pinwall, and subsequent to their departure, as well as during the time they might remain in port. " 1 accordingly took especial pains to impress my views upon all parties in. terested, so far as I had opportunity, and when, in 1855, the Panama Company established a line of sailing vessels of its own to run between this port (New York) and Aspinwall, I consulted with one of our intelligent physicians as to the best means to be employed to secure the faithful ajiplicatiou of the pro- posed remedy. Aware of the proverbial carelessness of sailors in regard to such matters, and the difficulty that might be encountered in efforls to make them take medicine, he recommended such a preparation of wine and quinine as, under the name oi 'ici/ie hitters' would not be unpalatable. " Such preparation was immediately provided, and placed on board of every vessel of the line, with printed directions as to the manner of using it, the caiitains also being instructed to insist upon its use, in accordance ^^•ith these instructions, by every man on board of tlieir vessels. " The result of this course exceeded oiir most sanguine expectations. From its very commencement a change for the better was seen, and during the Inst four years, in which seven vessels have been constantly employed in the trade, cases of sickness have rarely occurred—certainly not one case in ten, as com- pared with former times. The practice of using quinine, as above stated, is continued to the jircsent day, and so uniformly healthy are the crews of our vessels that the subject no longer excites our solicitude. " I would also remark, that tlie use of quinine by the oflicers and cmpioyeeti of the company on the Isthmus has been found very beneficial: and in connec- tion with tliis, and the clearing and settlement of the adjacent country, Asjnn- wall has become one of the healthiest tropical jHirts of which I liave any knowl- edge. " I am, dear Sir, with high resju'ct, " Your obed't servant, " VVm. H. Van BmtEN, M. D., kc, Sec " " DAVID HOADLEY.