TYPHOID FEVER. 15 use of quinine in this disease cannot be too strongly con- demned. xittention to the (Vet is all-important tlirono-liout. In the cnrlj st;iges it should be light, consisting of liquid substan- ces chiefly ; tlie infusion of flaxseed, toast-water, barley-water, weak solutions of tapioca, sago, or ari-owroot, are mostly tu be employed ; gruels made of Indian meal are to be avoided. Slightly acidulated drinks or pure water may be given, as the patient prefers. In the advanced periods, when symp- toms of debility appear, a more nutritious but not stimulat- ing diet is necessary. ■ The farinaceous articles above men- tioned, made with a mixture of one part water and three parts milk, may now be given ; wine, if desirable," may be added. Pure milk or milk and water may sometimes be substituted with benefit. And in the last or prostrate stage, the diet must not only be nutritions, but stimulating, such as the animal broths or jellies, Avith wine, milk punch, or brandies, or, if these cannot be had, the essence of beef and mutton." During convalescence the closest watchfulness and care is demanded; the bowels are to be kept open by the mildest laxa- tives or emollient enemata, but active purgation, premature exposure, fatigue, excitement, and all indiscretions in diet are to be scrupulously avoided. * The essence of heef or mutton naay be prepared iu the following manner. The muscle, deprived of fat, is cut up finely-, and introduced without water, into a narrow-necked bottle, which, after being loosely corked, is exposed for an hour or more to a boiling heat in a pot of water, in which it is so placed that the top of the bottle is above the surface of the liquid in the pot. At the end of the process, the liquor which may have formed in the bottle is ])oured off, and constitutes the preparation in question. It is a concentrated solu- tion of the soluble principles of the meat, is powerfully stimulant, and in the quantity of from a teaspoonful to a tablcspoonful, repeated at intervals of half an hour, an hour, or two hours, aids greatly in the support of the system in this and other low states of disease.