5 for pscudo-meinbranons deposits, and tlic denuded cellular coat ■ for the healthy mucous membrane. Owing to the manner in which the intestinal ulcers are formed in d3'seiitery they have usually a circular shape, and often the edges are as sharp as if pieces had been cut from the raucous membrane with a punch. In healing, the suialler ulcers fill up from the bottom, while the ■edges advance inwardly, and gradually the cavity is obliterated; but it is doubtful if a true epithelial coating is ever formed anew. Larger ulcers contract in healing, and form a tough fibroid cicatrix which has a puckered aspect. The ulcers which have been described are always most nume- rous in the rectum, and also more perfectly formed there than in the upper portions of the large intestine. Indeed, it is evident from an examination of cases fatal at difi'erent periods of the disease, that the ulcerative process begins at the lower part of the bowel and gradually advauccs up wards. In the rectum it sometimes completely destroys the mucous membrane, while in the superior divisions of the colon the ulcers arc fewer and less profound. They seldom exist in the small intestine unless in cases complicated with typhoid fever. The mesenteric glands are eularged aud softened and sometimes contain pus. In cJiroiiic dysentery the mucous membrane of the colon is generally very much thickened, and it is studded with ulcers in various stages of cicatrization, and presenting appearances ■depending upon the type of tli-e disease. The simplest form is that in which the ulcerative process has been uncomplicated witli exudation. Here the ulcers may be of regular shape, with rounded and thickened edges and a wliitish surface; or their edges may, by their puckered aspect, denote a tendency to heal- ing ; or large and irregular ulcers may occupy the greater part of tlie circumference of the intestine, exposing the muscular coat by its liypertrophied fibres, a condition, indeed, which may affect tlic whole extciit of the rectum • or finally, at a more