t 13 contracts, and draws up the tendon divided, or half destroyed by suppuration, out of the sheath. I am convinced that the fixing of the tendons before and during the operation by methodical pressure, and the continuous maintenance of the limb in one and the same position by the plaster of Paris ban- dage, may contribute a great deal towards the successful result of these operations." The following description of the several steps of the opera- tion as more recently performed, is given by Mk. Croft (London Lancet^ Feb. 6, 1858), one of the surgeons of the Dreadnought Hospital, where the operation had, at that date, been performed six times. He says:— "The mode of operation, as performed by Mr. Busk, Mr. Tudor, and myself, is to grasp the projecting portion of the foot with the left hand, then to enter the point of the knife iminediatcly behind the malleolus, and make a semi-circular incision in front of the point, terminating at a corresponding point behind the opposite malleolus; next, to carry the incision downward and slightly forwards to the edge of the sole of the foot, straight across the sole, and terminate it at the opposite malleolus, or the point at which the incision was commenced. Having disarticu- lated the foot, the soft parts are to be separated from around the os cal- cis in a line from the posterior margin of the upper articulating surface to the under edge of the articulating surface of the cuboid, and the mass in front of this line to be removed by the saw. The ends of the tibia and fibula are sawn off in the way usual in Syme's operation. During the process of separating-the soft, or rather tough parts about the OS calcis, care should be taken to keep the edge of the knife close to the bone, in order to avoid wounding the posterior tibial or plantar arteries. The portion of the os calcis left on the flap should be placed in contact with the end of the tibia, and if the saw has been entered well behind the calcaneo-astragaloid articulation, and brought out at the under margin of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation, the contact will be accurate. If the bones cannot be placed in accurate contact, thin slices of bone from the upper and back part of the portion of the os calcis should be removed by the saw until they can be adapted. The saw wl prefer is Bigg and Millikcn's modification of Butcher's Dublin saw."