MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 19 Also, that " the allowance of hospital attendants in the field will be, for one company, one steward, one nurse, and one cook; for each additional company, one nurse; and for com- mands of over five companies, one additional cook." The army Boai'd also recommend hospital tents of the fol- lowing dimensions: "In length, 14 feet; in width, 15 feet; in height (centre) 11 feet, with a wall 4^ feet, and a fly of appro- priate size. The ridge pole to be made in two sections, and to measure 14 feet when joined." The Board contemplate that such a tent will accommodate 8 to 10 patients comfortably. It is evident, however, that the space allowed for each patient is altogether too small, amounting to only a little more than 160 cubic feet for each patient. In making arrangements for the care of sick and wounded soldiers, there should be hospital tents erected as near as pos- sible to the field of battle, so that dressings and operations which are urgently required, may be i^erformed without any unnecessary delay. Thei'e should also be regimental hospitals, which may be constructed as tents, huts, or more permanent buildings, according to the season of the year and the charac- ter of the military operations. Each regimental hospital should have accommodations for fifty to one hundred patients. There should also be general hospitals at the base of operations, and in these there should be ample accommodations for all the pa- tients which may be sent to them from the regimental hospitals, or directly from the camps or the battle-field. The regimental and general hospitals should contain suflicient space to allow not less than eight hundred cubic feet of air for each patient. The horizontal space should not be less than 6 b}^ 6 feet for each patient. Large public buildings, such as churches, concert-rooms, and public halls, are commonly employed as general military hospitals. It is often necessary to make ex- tensive alterations to adapt them to their new use. Special regard should be paid to ventilation. The doors and windows usually require to be enlarged, especially in an upward and downward direction ; or numerous holes, six inches square, may be made through the walls near the floors and ceilings. There should be doors and windows opposite to each other, so