22 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. Been whether that second dose of the latter infection, wliicli it was the object of revaceination to introduce, would restore such persons, either permanently or foi- a long time, to the state of secuiitj from whicli they had declined; whether by successful revaceination their revived susceptibility to small- pox would be extingnished." {Ibid.) Now this is pi'ecisely the point to which this communication tends, and it seems to be conclusively settled by the experience of the Prussian and Wirtemberg array revaceination, whicli are selected from amongst a number of others in consequence of their extent and completeness. "In proof of the practical value of revaceination, Mr. Simon states, on the authority of Professor Heim, that in Wirtem- bura^— "During the five years, 1833-7, though smallpox infection had been sixteen times imported into different regiments of the army, there had ensued among the 14,384: revaccinated soldiers only (in the person of one whose revaceination two years be- fore had been followed by ' raodiried success") a single instance of varioloid." (p. 35.) In Prussia, just as in Wirtemberg, the practice of revacei- nation grew out of the knowledge that smallpox would ulti- mately attack a certain proportion of those who had been vaccinated only in infancy. This knowledge, too, had been dearly purchased in the Prussian army ; for during the ten years preceding 1831, cases of post-vaccinal smallpox were in- creasing in number and fatality ; attacks were counted annu- ally by many hundreds; and within the three years 1831-3, there had occurred no fewer than 313 deaths by smallpox. " For the last twenty years the Prussian army has repre- sented an almost entirely revaccinated population : and what has been the contrastlOi aniuuil deaths by smallpox was the last experience of the former system; 2 annual deaths by smallpox has been the average for the revaccinated army. Analyzing, moreover, the 40 fatal cases of smallpox which the last 20 years have occurred in the I'russian army, we find that only 4 of the number were of persons who (it is said) were suc- cessfully revaccinated."