PNEUMONIA. 20 of solidification in cases in wliicli the reiriedj has been freely given. The cases to which opium is speciall,y a])plicable are tliose in which the affection excites nnnsnal disturbance of the system, manifested by restlessness, vi<--ilance, typhoid delirium, an irritable pulse, &c. Apprehension of inducing cerebral trouble need not be felt, even when typhoid delirium be pres- ent; on the contrary, tlie good effect of the remedy is often manifested by a more rational condition.* Pericarditis complicating pneumonia adds greatly to the gravity and danger. By perseverance in the judicious employ- ment of supporting measures, we may hope to save lives which would otherwise have been lost. Tlie writer of this paper has I'eported a case of pneumonia affecting the whole of the right lung, complicated with pericarditis, and eventuating in pul- monary abscess, in which recovery took place under vigorous and long-continued supporting treatment.f It may be added, that timely and efficient support probably affords the best se- curity against suppuration, whether in the form of abscess or purulent infiltration, and also against the occurrence of gan- grene, which, happily, is extremely rare. Pneumonia occurring as a complication of the continued or eruptive fevers, calls for soothing and supporting measures. Depressing measures, such as blood-letting, antimonial prepara- tions, and purgatives, are very rarely, if ever, admissible under these circumstances. A few words respecting the management of convalescence: There is little or no tendency to relapse. It must be extremely rai-e for a patient convalescing to be prostrated by a second attack. Tliere is no need, therefore, of extreme precautions on this score. Experience shows that a solid, substantial diet, may be entered upon so soon as the patient is fairly on the road to recovery, and that the convalescence is more rapid than if the appetite be too much restrained. As a rule, ordinary wholesome, digestible articles of food may be allowed, when they are craved by the patient. Permitting the patient to *■ More or loss delirium is not very infroqucnt, even in cases of jmeumonia w-liicli (Id not present other symptoms d(Mioting tlic typhoid condition, and is not in itself necessarily a symptom of grave import. t New Orleans Medical Reporter and Hospital Gazette, Vol. for 18G0.