4 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 15 forms. For the nervous system is the only system in which regular remissions constantly recur. I believe that the lesions that are now discovered after death from fevers, are rathei- the effects than the cause of the disease; and that if we shall ever become able to inspect the nervous system in the same clear and conclusive way that we now examine other organs of the body, in post-mortem cases, this doctrine will be conclusively established. In diseases of the brain, depletion affects the nervous system more promptly than any other agent; and, in the same way, ex- cessive loss of blood produces those low forms of typhoid disease which have their origin and seat in the nervous system. Let the Tourniquet then be applied to prevent the subsequent occur- rence of pyemia and typhoid fever. There is another advantage which would be gained by the general introduction of the Tourniquet among the troops, which is too important to pass unnoticed. It is the moral courage and confidence which the possession of this instrument would give the soldiers. We have seen that in some cases men dread the manner of death more than death itself, and that, in general, death by hemor- rhage is regarded with rhost horror. We have seen that it was by possessing the power to control hemorrhage, that Pare infused a brave spirit into the French troops. So the possession of a Tourni- quet by any soldier who feels competent to use it, supports his cour- age, and he feels that if wounded in the service of his country, his blood will not be needlessly wasted. In this way, slight material causes frequently give rise to extensive moral and political results, and I hope this simple instrument, which I recommend, may not only save the lives of many individual soldiers, but, by increasing the confidence of the troops, in some measure may contribute to the final success of our arms ; and it is with these views that I have devoted the necessary time and labor to the production of this monograph, though at a period of life when men naturally incline toward repose. « But in this great struggle whatever is left of my da3^s is at the disposal of my country, whether it be with the sword, or with the knife, or with the pen—on the field of battle, in the hospital, or at home. The lapse of years is beginning to admonish me, that what