10 iiistiluted to pi'cvcnt the iiitrodnctioii or to limit tlie diffu- sion of either of those infections, and as a consequence, many lives Averc sacrificed, and the military effectiveness of the regiment has thereby been nearly destroyed. In the month of December, 1862, a first-class new regi- i.KUe'\t'new1"i- i"'^ent arrived in Xew York, roide to the seatof wai-, from c".iiz'i',lg"''Jondi- i*^s rendezvous in Massachusetts. A case of scarlatina stray the corps!''' ajDpcared during the trip hither. The men were assigned to close and insalubrions quarters in the lofts of a "warehouse in this city. The cases of scarlatina continued to multiply from day to day and from week to week, until nearly two hundred cases had occurred, and until one of the most pro- mising regiments ever organized had become so broken Die jlrenglli of doAvn by this cause that the dead, together Avitli dischai'ged (lie command . ,. , -, ft p n hopelessly lost mvaiids, ainot^ntcd to an aggregate ot nearly two lull com- panies. This regiment left its pestiferous qi7arters in the city, after a detention of about two months, with its military effectiveness diminished, as estimated by its A'eteran colonel, fully thirty 2)CT cent, upon its original strength of one thou- sand men. And it is Avorth}' of mention here that the local other diseases, couditions that had rendered scarlatina so fatally endemic, also prostrated the strength of every man, and induced A^arious inflammatory and tyjjJious maladies Avhich bi'oke doAvn the health and vitjor of men Avho seldom had knoAvu The localizing c;ui?c3 of the en- demic produced Measles infro- gicknCSS prCvioUSly. diiced into four new regime the s^Htne campraent. new ■egimentsat ^^iQ autuniu of 1SG2, four full regimcuts of nine months' men Avere ordered to encamp, Avhile Avaiting transportation, in the An'cinity of the Bay of Ncav York, upon a plaiii that doni'l^*'i'ilJ'^"quar- ^^''^^ already been much used as a camping ground. Measles had already appeared in one of the regiments, and soon the infection had extended to the three other commands. In one regiment only Avas the maladv subjected to an effectual and rigidly enforced domestic quarantine. In that camp the measles ceased Avith the occurrence of the second case. Neglect of such In tlic tlu'ec otlicr camiis no such measures of ■i)ersonal iso- niea^ures result- . ni-i t -i t >t ed ill great losses, hitiou of the sick AA'crc adopted untu upwards oi three hun- dred cases of that disease had occurred. Arrest of scar- Jn fhc caiui) mentioned, Avhere measles Avas arrested, KUum by means ' ' ^ oiiiiesamemeas- the Utility of cHectiial doiiicstic isolatiou for arresting the urcs ihut arrest- ~ ed measles. spread of scarhiliua had been tested in a case of that disease