22 PNEUMONIA. by saline purgatives, together witli sedative remedies, sneli as the jM-eparatiuiis of antimony and the veratrum viride. 5. The remedies jnst named are indicated only in the cases referred to. Given in cases indiscriminately, and carried to an injudicious extent, they may do much harm. They should be used with great circumspection, and rarely after the first stage of the disease. It is never advisable to push them so far as to occasion distressing nausea or vomiting, and enfeeble the heart's action. 6. Acute pain, depending on coexisting pleurisy, does not call for general blood-letting. Dry or wet cupping, fomenta- tions, and stimulating applications to the chest are useful, and, if not efi'ectual, opium may be given sufficiently to relieve this symptom. The oiled muslin jacket, to be worn during the dis- ease, is to be recommended. 7. The combination of intermitting fever and pneumonia calls for the prompt useof quinia in sufficient doses to arrest as speedily as possible the paroxysmal aflection. Small or moder- ate doses of this remedy should be given in malarious regions, and to patients who are subject to intermitting fever, in order to prevent the development of intermitting fever and to obvi- ate the unfavorable influence of the malarious cachexia. The remedy should be continued during the progress of the disease. 8. Antimonial preparations, mercur}', blisters, and expecto- rants are not called for with a view to promote i-esolution of tlie pulmonary affection. There are not sufficient grounds for the belief that they hasten the removal of the exudation, and, if not useful, they must be injuiious. There are no remedies to be employed especially for this object. 9. In severe cases of pneumonia, after the disease has ad- vanced to the second stage, the most important object of treat- ment generally is to support the powers of life, to obviate the tendency to death by asthenia, and to carry the patient safely through the disease. 10. The supporting treatment consists of tonic remedies, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious food. These are to be combined, in order to render the supporting treatment efficient. 11. Alcoholic stimulants maybe given without fear of af- fecting unfavorably the local aflection. They should be given