7 VENEREAL DISEASES. trolliible nausea or diarrluca, a cntaiieons eruption, severe pain in tlie kidneys, or general debility. Useful formula are the following: I^. Copaivre, Spt. tetheris nitrici, aa 3 j, Liquo- ris potassse 3 ij, Spt. lavandulfe comp. 3 ij, Syrupi acacias 3 vj. M. (Lafayette mixture). A taUe.^poonful three times a day. IJ. Pulveris cnbebas 3 viiss, Pulveris aluminis3ss. M. This quantity to le taken daily in three doses. Copaiva solidified by magnesia (IG parts to 1 by weight), and made into boluses, is a convenient mode of administration. 5. Medication, both external and internal, should be con- tinued for ten days after all discharge has ceased. 6. The " abortive treatment" of gonorrhoea is adapted only to the commencement of the disease, before acute symptoms have set in. The best formula for its administration is a weak so- lution of nitrate of silver- (gr. j ad aquse 3 ij), injected every two hours until the discharge becomes thin and watery (which usually takes place within twenty-for hours), and then omitted. Copaiva may be given simultaneously. 7. Chordee may be prevented by drachm doses of the tinc- ture of camphor in water, taken at bedtime. 8. Commencing abscesses along the course of the urethra ftliould be opened as soon as detected, even before fluctuation (tan be felt. r>. Acute prostatitis may be recognized by frequent and painful micturition, a throbbing pain in the perineum, and more or less general febrile excitement; and the finger intro- duced 7^6;'(/»?^m detects the enlarged and sensitive gland en- croaching upon the rectum. Retention of urine frequently ensues, and requires the introduction of a catheter. When the instrument reaches the prostatic portion of the urethra, it ex- cites great pain, and meets with an obstruction, due to the swollen gland, which is readily overcome by gentle and con- tinued pressure, tlie handle of the catlieter at the same time being depressed. This affection may terminate in resolution or in suppuration. Tlie latter is announced by repeated chills; and, if the abscess points towards the rectum, fluctuation may be detected by the finger introduced per anum • more fre- quently, however, the matter tends to escajie by the urethra.