9 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. the supervention of inflanimation of the brain, consequent on the jDeculiar state of tlie patient's constitution at tlic time. Thus it appears tluit if the protection afforded b}' vaccination is not perfect, it is superior to any other." Dr. John Davy, Inspector-general of Army Hospitals,* pre- sents some valuable statistics in relation to the comparative mortality of the native population of Malta and the military, among whom smallpox had been introduced by 11. M. S. Asia, by which it ap^jears that the mortality among those " not vac- cinated" was 1 in 4.7 ; among those " suj>posed to have been vaccinated," 1 in 2o.-l:; among those "well vaccinated," 1 in 15.6 ; and lastly, among those attacked a second time by small- pox, 1 in 10.8. The higher mortality among those supposed to have been vaccinated, Dr. Davy explains by the su})posi- tion that the majority of the former may have belonged to the infantile age. " xVs regards the general efiect of vaccina- tion in its influence both as affording protection from small- pox to a considerable extent, and mitigating its severity when not preventing the attack, the facts given are clear and satisfac- tory. It is a curious circumstance that the jyrojJortion of those who died after a second attach of smaUjJOX was, as has been already pointed out, greater than in the instances of those who had the disease after vaccination'' The comparative exemption of the British troops serving in Malta is another evidence of the protective influence of vaccination. Dr. Davy says, further, that " the native population (in Malta) in 1830 was estimated at 100,839 persons; amongst whom, it appears, from preced- ing returns, 1 in every 12.1 was attacked with the disease, and 1 in every 85 died ; but amongst the military, including their wives and children, the proportion attacked was 1 in ISS, and the mortality was only 1 in 682." The petition of Mr. J. F. Marson in support of the " Yaccin- ation Bill,"f before the British Parliament in 1856, after de- claring that he "has been for upwards of twenty years the resident surgeon of the Smallpox and Yaccination Hospital in * Notes and Observations in the Ionian Islands and Malta, &c. Loud., 1841. t Laucut, Aug. yo, 1S5G.