ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. 7 same way that the pulse is felt at the wrist, when we use sufficient force with the fingers to press the artery down upon the bone in any part of its course. In this way it is that the supply of blood to the limbs may be at any time summarily stopped, and, as a consequence, bleeding of wounds of the arms and legs speedily arrested. As there is but one great arterial bloodvessel in the arm above the elbow, and but one of account in the thigh above the knee, it is most convenient to arrest the supply of blood to the limbs by applying the constric- tion at some point of the thigh or upper arm, even though the wound from which the hemorrhage occurs should be of the foot or hand. For these reasons also, it is only necessary to call the attention of the officers and men to the relative positions of the artery and the bone in these two regions, that is in the upper arn^, and in the thigh, to enable them to understand and put in practice in case of necessity the Tourniquet, one of the greatest inventions of modern times. I would especially advise Captains and Lieuten- ants of companies to make themselves familiar with the practice of arresting the circulation in these two regions by practicing at their leisure upon themselves and on the men. The elements of Anatomical Science should be more diffused amongst the people. So little is this kind of knowledge generally known, that a Captain of the army of the Potomac with whom I was lately conversing, expressed surprise when I informed him, that the main artery of the lower limb passed down in front along the groin, as he had always supposed it to be somewhere in the back part of the limb. At my request, in the sitting position as he was, he placed the ball of his thumb on the upper part of his groin and bearing firmly down, compressed the artery upon the bone beneath it, until he stopped its pulsations; thus gaining knowledge which may yet be of the greatest service to him, and knowledge of which I would that every soldier of my country, who is liable to die by hemorrhage on the battle-field, might be possessed. It was by possessing such knowledge as this, that an intimate and valued friend of mine, a distinguished British officer, succeeded in sav- ing his own life. He had lost a leg below the knee, from a cannon shot, and was bleeding profusely, but succeeded in