20 a half—are such recommendations as few will be found to deny, and against which nothing, so far as I can perceive, is to be opposed." In regard to the liability to non-union of the fragment of os calcis, we have the following testimony. Pirogotf says of his first three cases, " notwithstanding the suppuration and considerable gravitation of pus into the flap in the third case; notwithstand- ing the softness and fatty degeneration of the os calcis, which could be cut with the knife, in the second case; and lastly, not- withstanding the bleeding fungous excrescences which formed on the bones, also in the second case ; still the remains of the os calcis united firmly with the tibia and fibula. Lastly, one of the cases, the third, proves that the exarticulation at the ankle joint after my method—at least in children and young people— may be undertaken even in cases of diseased ankle joint, pro- vided disorganization has not extended too far over the soft parts about the articulation. In the boy in the second case, I found pus in the capsule during the operation, the cartilages softened and decayed, the ends of the bones also softened, and in a state of fatty degeneration, yet the result of the operation was most successful." Mr. Busk says:—" Some have feared that the section left of the calcaneum would uot readily unite with the extremity of the tibia; but this fear is groundless. In the last operation performed by Mr. Tudor union was found to be quite firm on the twelfth day In my first case the man could support his whole weight on the stump within a fortnight." A correspondent of a London Medical Journal thus records an interview with Mr. Syme: "Mr. Syme spoke of it (Piro- goff's operation) with much contempt, alleging tliatthe retained extremity of the os calcis would, in the first place, be likely to act as a foreign body, and cause irritation, and that even if good union were obtained tlie limb would be too long to be useful. I say that some of the best stumps that I have ever seen have been obtained by it, and that so far from the