16 tion may or may not take place ; if it occur, division of the tendo Achillis relieves it for a time at least. Mr. Fergusson and Mr. Cock, of London, have remedied this condition by division of the tendo Achillis, and do not consider it a valid objection. Mr Syme, on the contrary, seems to reject Cho- part's operation altogether. In some clinical remarks on a case upon which he was about to perform his operation, in 1852,'he • said, " There is extensive disease of the tarsus, not leaving room for the performance of Chopart's operation, even if I deemed it expedient, which I have long ceased to do, from conviction of its inferiority to that at the ankle, especially in regard to the protection afforded against relapse. In one year alone I performed three secondary amputations at the anlde to remedy the sequelae of Chopart's operation." Prof. Gross expresses himself strongly in favor of the operation. He says :—" Of the utility of this procedure, in the class of cases under consideration, there can no longer be any doubt; I have employed it several times in my own practice, and I have seen it repeatedly executed by others, and in every instance that has come within my notice, the result has been most satis- factory." Sym.e's Operation.—Syme's method is now an accepted ope- ration with the surgeons of Great Britain. Mr. Fergusson, who had operated eight times, says :—" In so far as I can judge, it is one of the greatest improvements in modern surgery as regards the subject of amputation." Mr. Erichsen remarks that it " constitutes one of the greatest improvements of recent date in operative surgery, as by its performance amputation of the leg may often be avoided, and the patient being left with an exceedingly useful stump, the covering of which being ingeniously taken from the heel, constitutes an excellent basis of support." Mr. Quain thinks the operation " free from any valid objection, and, what is more important, the result in practice has been found to be good. A person who has under- gone this operation is enabled to bear his whole weight upon