12 under favorable circumstances. Witli appropriate treatment, its duration is mucli abridged. Tlie rapidity and completeness of convalescence are inversely proportional to the danger of the disease. Relapses are easily induced by exposure to any of the exciting causes. Over indulgence of the appetite for food is especially to be avoided. Little need be said in addition to what has already been remarked concerning the pathological anatomy of the disease. The bronzed liver, owing its color, as has been shown by Pro- fessor Alonzo Clark, to the existence of htematoidin diffused through the organ, and not to hsemorrhage into its substance, is the most uniform and characteristic phenomenon to be met with on post-mortem inspection. It is worthy of remark that this condition of the liver may exist for several years after recovery from the fever, and that it may occur from long resi- dence in a miasmatic region, the patient never having suffered from remittent fever. Another lesion, nearly always present, consists in the enlarged, softened, bluish-black spleen. This has been known to reach the enormous weight of eleven pounds. It is doubtless the result of chronic hypertemia, as are most of the morbid appear- ances described by authors, met with in the brain and mucous membranes. It has been said that congestive fever is the form most dreaded by patient and practitioner. This has been called Algid/ever, pernicious or malignant intermittent, pernicious remittent, ^e shall preserve the name—sanctioned by long usage—by which it is known among American physicians. In remittent fever, the tendency seems to a perpetuation of the hot stage. In the congestive, to a perpetuation of the cold. Ordinarily, as has before been stated, it does not show itself as such, ab initio. We are able to recognise its existence, from observing that in the course of a common intermittent paroxysm the first stage, after lasting longer than usual, is not followed by the typical febrile symptoms. The face and extremities