14 Mea ns of pro- class of contagioiis in hospitals and crowded quarters, and si,S"^'uTas even the subordinate officers in wai'ds, andtlie command- stood. iiig officers in mihtary quarters, where any of these diseases are found, ought definitel)' to understand the recjuisite mea- sures for providing sanitary protection against tlieni, the following concise statement is here given, without explana- tion, and at the pleasant risk of recapitulating, in a -s-ery synoptical manner, the special information and hygienic regulations which every medical officer in charge of a mili- The object of tarv liospital may iustly claim as his own. Were an thus statiog what . t . . siuiitary mens- apoloo;v rcciuired lor reiterating such statements ot acceijted ures are required. i o./ x o j. medical knoATledge, or for reducing these statements to aphorisms, we need but refer to the circumstance, " that it stands prominent as a fact in military history, that serious "Contagion" a cvils frequently arise in armies from the ravages of eonta- comingeui evil. . n n j_i j. j_ • • j_' i_ •^ • gious lever; and that, as contagion is a contingent evil, it is obvious to common sense, that the chances which give rise to its action ought to be precluded with every possible Active warfare carc." [Dr. KoET. Jackson 0}i Armtes, J). 3(58.] or^v'^u'^and'^some Ilowcver exccllent the plans providing for medical service eare".^"'^ '° in liospitals and in the field, and however well directed may be the sanitary regulations of great armies, active warfare involves the repeated and almost constant occurrence of con- tingencies that necessitate a choice of evils, and require much exposure to causes of disease. The crowding and ac- infecfiouspoisons cumuhition of meii which occur in Avar, tend to produce and Tverawd i n°g™ perpetuate infectious maladies. Hospitals and transports are frequently overcrowded from the very necessities that war creates; while the regulations of encampments are made to crowd upon given areas populations more dense Kncainpingsoi- thaii cau bc found in any city. Our army regulations permit dieraatthe rate . , . i n /. o/i s«,(K)9 to tiie sq. ci'owdluo; m the ren-imental camp at tJie rate oi SO.OOO men to mile. » o i ' the square mile ; Avhile in hospitals and transports the natural evacuations and bodily excretions, the suppurating wounds, the gangrenous parts, and the uncleansed persons and c-h)t]i- Ppeciai sources iug of vust uumbei's of soUliei's ill an unhealthy condition, of infueiion in i • i . . i i i i *tt i i hospitals and are combined to vitiate the local atiiiospuere. Under sucli Circumstances ot inevitable msakibrity, tlie worst ot ende- mic infections may suddenly sjn'ing into fatal activity, and almost any imported virus of disease will readily become