33 Ready meihod.—Pour dilute hydrochloric, sulpliuric, nitric, or acetic acid upon chlorides of lime, zinc, or soda. This may be done gradually by means of a glass or lead syphon, or by the capillary syphon of lamp-Avick, dropping the acid upon the chloride, if desirable to evolve the chlorine steadily for many hours. Cheaj] method.—Mix G parts of peroxide of manganese with 8 parts of table salt (chloride of sodium) in a lead or iron vessel, which should be set freely within another vessel of larger capacity ; pour npon the mix- ture of manganese and salt 13 parts of sulphuric acid, which may be diluted Avith water to abate the rapidity of the evolution of the gas. Heat the vessel containing this mixture by means of hot water or steam, if more rapid evolution of the gas is required. Ordinary method.—Mix four parts of fuming hydrochloric (muriatic) acid with one part of coarse powder of peroxide of manganese, adding water, as may be desired, to abate the rapidity of evolution. Apply moderate heat. The vessel may be of a kind to permit the use of the acid, and the heat. The heat, however, by this method, is not indis- pensable. A very neat method of evolving chlorine in hospitals and transports, is to put a few ounces of the black oxide of manganese into a stout glass bottle of large size, rig a bulbous pipette to a perforated cork or stopper, and fitting an india-rubber bulb upon the headless bulb of the pipette, fill the pipette with muriatic acid, and evolve the chlorine at pleasure by occasional pressure upon the elastic cap. Bromine and its compounds.—This most powerful antiseptic has re- cently been brought into requisition in the military hospitals as a special disinfectant and arrester of gangrene. It is applied both topically' and dif- fusively. Bromine is exceedingly penetrating and energetic in its action, and consequently is to be manipulated and applied with proper caution. It is principally employed in its pure liquid form, or in combination with bromide of potassium. Special caution should be used not to respire the strong fumes or any pulverized compound of bromine, as its eflects when inhaled are suflbcating. The following concise statement of the best methods for applying this potent disinfectant, we quote from Dr. M. GoLDsiiixn, Medical Director of Military Hospitals at Louisville, Ivy., to whom the medical profession is largely indebted for its successful intro- duction as a topical and prophylactic agent for the control of hospital gangrene and erysipelas: Directions for Use. 1. For Fuviigation.—Place vessels, containing one ounce of the solu- tion at dilferent points of tiie ward, and in number sufficient to secure in the latter the constant presence of the odor of bromine.