17 The mental condition is usually one of integrity. In the early stages, much apprehension is commonly felt as to the nature and issue of the disease. As soon, however, as the first or febrile stage has terminated, a most extraordinary indifference to life and its concerns is manifested. Even whilst persons were dying, in their immediate vicinity with black vomit, patients have been known to amuse themselves by trials of dexterity, in seeing which one could most successfully squirt the fatal fluid at flies on the adjacent walls. Doctor Blair, perhaps cor- rectly, attributes this pschycological state to urcemic intoxica- tion. The analogy between yellow fever and cholera, in this respect, of indifference to the result, will be apparent to one familiar with the latter disease. Except shortly before death, delirium is not commonly seen.. Whilst sopor and stupor are not unfrequently met with, coma is not often encountered. The sleep is restless, dreamy, and unrefreshing. The exjyression of the face has been dwelt on by authors; but, whilst acknowledging its peculiarity, it would serve but little useful purpose to state more than that the eyes are suf- fused, red, sometimes having a drunken look, and that hope, iudifi"erence, or despondency may be observed, according to the stage or especial nature of the case. In yellow fever countries, it is common to speak of walking cases. By this term is meant a very peculiar type of the dis- ease, in which death occurs with scarcely imy feeling of illness and without symptoms, such as have been described. To avoid unjust suspicions of malingering, it is necessary to be well aware of this insidious form. Louis mentions the case of Doctor Mathias, who died, after an illness of four or five days, without chill, fever, nausea, or vomiting. He experienced no otRer symptoms, but severe pains in the calves of his legs and urinary suppression. This latter indicated the severity of his case. Bogging a friend to Avrite a few letters from his dictation, 3