22 Catsrs. Cfi)iiafe, Smsorifi^ ((t-.—Alinosl, all wi-ilors n<i-vC'Q in Blaliiiu' llial (lyscntci-y is iiiiicli nioi-o (;f)iniiu)ii ainl I'alal in liot tliaii in cold climates, a,nd doid)tloss this statement is tiaie. par- ticularly in i-egard to the endemic disease. l]ut it is nc'verlho- less true that the prevalence of the disease in tcmperale (diniatcs is so a'reat, at times, that of fifty-fouv notable epidemics of dys- entei-y, wliicli ai'e recorded as havini;- prevailed in Europe and this country, all but eight occurred in localities where the win- ters are cold and the summers of modei-ate tempei'alure. From tlie e(]iiator to the Arctic regions, there is no region where dys- enteiy lias not assumed the foi-m of a destructive epidemic; and if fewer records of its ravages in hot climates exist. ])erhaps it is because the inhaliitants are not accustomed to give their medical experience a place in their scanty literature. The passage from summer to autumn is the season when dys- entery is most prevalent. Of fifty recorded epidemics, ihirty- 8ix occured at this period of the year. The most evident con- ditions for its generation arc hot days and cool nights. It has been found to occur when these were apparently the only mor- bid innuences ; but frequently another atmospheric condition peculiar to that season of the year exists simultaneously, viz., moisture in the form of exhalations from the ground, or more commonly the precipitation of water from the air by its con- tact with tbe colder earth, or with the surface of rivers. |ionds. &('. ; in other words, cold fogs. Bv them the |ierspiralion i^x- cited by t,li(> day's heat, is suddenly checked, and tlu' discliarge of the effete results of the decom]iosition from tli(> skin, which tli(! heal, doiilitless renders unusually active, aluaiptiv c(\ises. the (()!■(■(> ()(■ the recoil fiills upon lli(> oro-an which at the (Mid of the -;iimmer is weakest, and proliably finds an exit through the S]icci(ic channels, the glands of tln^ I'cctuiii and colon, which are the primary seat, of organic cliaim'c in dys(>iitcry. In all epidemics of dysentery oci'urriiig at the pin-iod here referred