9 troting to and keeping in contact with the bone, is prolonged downward along the anterior aspect of the joint. This cor- responds with thef bicipital groove containing the long head of the biceps muscle, which, released from its sheath, is to be held to one side and preserved undivided. The tendons of the scapular muscles, which in a great measure form the capsular ligament, are then put on the stretch by rotating the arm inwards or outwards, according to the side on which they are to be attacked, and divided with sufficient freedom to allow the head of the bone to be tilted from its socket. The posterior circumflex artery, a vessel of large size, and the circumflex nerve, l»oth of which pass close to, and just below, the head of the humerus, must be respected, if possi- ble. Another method of performing this excision consists in making a crescent-shaped incision posteriorly, comraenc- iug beneath the acromion and proceeding backward and downward. As the patient lies on his back, it permits the secretions to escape with great facility, and the burrowing of matter is thereby prevented. The preservation of the long tendon of the biceps is more diflicult in this method than iu the preceding. The section of the bone is accomplished with the saw, the soft parts being protected by a spatula or card passed behind it. In cases of fracture of the neck, and when the head cannot be turned out of its place, it must be seized by strong forceps (tooth-forceps, for instance,) and removed in the manner which circumstances will permit. In such instances it is only necessary to cut oflT the sharp edges and irregularities of the shaft of the bone. AfTER-TREATMENT.—The tendency of the latissimus dorsi and teres major to draw the extremity of the humerus inward, is to be prevented by a pad or cushion in the axilla. Besides, this, repose, with the shoulder and arm supported on a pillow, cold-water dressing for the first few days, and subsequently gentle compression by bandages, to prevent the burrowing of pus down the arm, with a sling and the confinement of the humerus to the side of the body, constitute all the treatment which can be required until passive motion is to be at-