26 to be pressed to tlie ground by the weight of the body, with its general inutility for walking. No possible advantage can be obtained by an amputation of the foot which involves in the sacrifice the greater portion of tlie tarsus, but what will be largely enhanced by a well-timed operation at the anUe-joint, after the mode of Mr. Syme : therefore, by every consideration of humanity and art, I am led to regard that site as the one which should be designated as the seoond place of electiox." We are not aware tliat any artificial limb has yet been devised for the stump after Pirogoff's amputation. We may add, that those skilled in tbe manufacture of artificial limbs consider this stump very poorly adapted for a useful mecha- nical contrivance. We conclude:— That the stump after Syme^s amputation is much letter adapted for an artificial ^appliance than that 7'esidting from either Chopart^s or Pirogoff's operation. After Treatment.—The subsequent treatment of operations of the foot is of great importance, as regards their ultimate success. Although immediate union is always desirable, yet it is not always attainable, even under the most favorable circum- stances, as where operations are performed in the immediate vicinity of lacerated wounds, as must frequently occur in attempts to save fragments of the foot. Union by granulation cannot be anticipated. In view of the liability of the wounds left after amputations through the foot, and the excision of bones, to suppuration, and the consequent dangers of pycemia, the practice of leaving them open to heal by granulation^ is becoming more and more general. The process of cure pro- ceeds more favorably in a given number of cases thus treated, than when the wound is at once closed ; and the cicatrix which forms under these circumstances is both symmetrical and useful. We deem it advisable also, in Syme's amputation, not to close the wound immediately. Owing to the constant oozing of blood in four cases performed in Bellcvue Hospital the stump