ON HEMORRHAGE PROM WOUNDS. 5 of the blood ; how it goes out from the heart to the extremities in throbbing arteries, which hold their course deep within the flesh along the bones, and how, to complete the cii'cuit, it re- turns in the more superficial blue and pulseless veins; for all this was discovered by Harvey at a later period. But without this knowledge Pare, inspired with the progressive spirit of true genius, ventured to apply a ligature to the point from which the spirting jet issued, and the success of his method proved perfect. By it he secured all the advantages of the old practice with haemostatics, without their cruelty, uncertainty and incompeten- cy. He made a great advance in surgical art, and,' so great did his fame become, that his presence was sufficient to inspirit desponding armies. At one time, when the garrison of a beleagured city were about to surrender, it became known to them that this great surgeon was among them, and the fact encouraged the soldiers to such continued resistance as in the event proved successful;—so much did these soldiers fear death from hemorrhage, and so great was their confidence in the power of this man to staunch the flow of blood. Of a like nature is the influence of every surgeon on the men placed in his care, and in this way is the surgeon one of the most important of officers in sustaining the morale of a force. It is a mistake to assume that there is little or no danger of hemorrhage from gun-shot wounds. Wounds of the large arte- ries of the legs and arms from balls and fragments of shells, punctured or incised, always bleed more or less at the time of reception, and more freely as the shock to the nervous system passes off and reaction comes on. Even where this nervous shock is not sufficient to produce immediate death, the chances for ulti- mate recovery most frequently turn on the mere question of loss of blood. Surely, then, any knowledge which it is possible to =inpart to the ofBicers and men, which will be of service to them in that critical moment, when the wound is received, and no sur- geon is present to give them attention, should be freely bestowed. In the progress of the present war, cases are continually occur- ring which, exemplify too plainly the truth of these remarks. At Antietam two young brothers stood .side by side in the ranks of our army, and together bravely fell, the one pierced by a Minnie ball