13 In rod ion is nn individual or endemic, as preventible evils, it iiiiglit Ije lie utmliniiiilly chiiiued that tliey never should occnir under proper inedieal guardcil iiyftinst. and military administration ; but as SL-KGEox-Gi;Ni:i:Ar. IlAMitoNu has iustly remarked, in his treatise on Military Infection ma,y . , ay t i i i exist under good iryo'iene, cvcu With overy eiiurt dictated by the most management. " ' . • i ' i ■ i- i • thorough accpiaintance witii the science oi Jiygiene, and tlie most conscientious endeavors to discharge faithfully the duties of his office, the medical officer of a hos[)ital will sometimes find diseases originate under his eyes which can only owe their source to infection." Diversity of in- 111 resuming the Consideration of the specific infections, Ind'^ngenderof it is proper to remark in limine, that, in the classificati(jn infection. given ill tliis paper, these poisons may be regarded as having widely diverse causes, operating by means of difi'erent agen- cies, most of which are amenable to hygienic regulations. The immediate '^^^^ cxantliematous poisons, though positively contagious agents are sus- ^^idi transportablc, are measurably suscei^tible of in-eventive cepiible of con- ^ > ./ i i sanitary control; and most other infectious poisons, though more dependent upon contingencies for their operation, and therefore more difficult of such restraint, are not less sub- missive to it when directed by proper intelligence. Aviiy mea.sie3 To siTiall-pox and vaccination is due the separate con- cau'.-^egrealefi'o"'^ sldcration givcii in the monograph [lledical Docur/ienf, smairpo.".'^ """^ to which wc liavc referred. Measles and scarlatina, though less dreaded, are actuall)- the causes of greater danger and loss to the army than small-pox, for much greater numbers of soldiers are liable to the former maladies, and the secpiln3 of those fevers are often fatal, or apt to produce lingering impairment of health. Hence those maladies, though popularly regarded as being simply the inevitable scourges of childhood, do actually demand vigilant measures for their prevention and control in the army. Sanitcmj Ixegtilations for lyreveniinfj iho sjri'ead of the ex- s'lni iheniatons contagions. 1st. Tlie patients and all infected ' things—at least, all the personal clothing Avorn during the ihe exiimlienia- >^ ' I o o tons couia-ioiis. period of cruptioii—should be immediately separated from all persons that are liable to contract or to communicate the contagion; and such domestic or limited quarantine should be Recapitulation of special nieas- Ollih urea for llie sani lai'y control Ibe exantiieiiia