13 cotton, linen or tow may be substituted for it, or bran bags may be used. A splint-cloth .is useless, the same purpose being much better served by giving each of the circular strips of bandage a turn around each splint, enclosing also the lining, which is thus kept in place. Some sort of old stuff, woollen if possible, should be folded so as to form a protection to the whole under surface of the limb. The circular strips of bandage will be sure to stretch somewhat during the first 24 or 48 hours; after that they may be made more secure by tacking them to the edges of the splints. Various forms of inclined planes have been described for the treatment of fracture of the thigh. The single inclined plane may be very usefully employed, with careful watching by the surgeon; it is made by fastening a board, as long as from the tuber ischii to an inch or two beyond the heel, and inclined at such an angle as may be judged suitable to an upright board, so that the latter shall project about a foot above the upper end of the former. Holes are bored in this projecting part, through which the extending bands pass to be tied, and the injured limb lies upon the slope, the weight of the body making the counter-extension. The double inclined plane is well known; its most recent and approved form is that given to it by Dr. N. R. Smith, of Baltimore. Dr. Smith's splint consists in a rectangular frame of stout iron wire, about 3 inches wide at one end, and 2|- or 2| at the other; it is intended to reach from a little above the spine of the ilium to a point just beyond the toes, and should, therefore, be about 3 feet 8 inches long for a man of ordinary stature. Cross-pieces of wire are firmly clinched to the side- pieces at intervals of about 8 inches. There are also two double hooks of wire, each of which is adapted to clip the side-wires firmly, and has a loop above like a figure of 8, forming an eye for the attachment of a suspend- ing cord. A small pulley and a tent-block are useful, but not indispensa- ble to the apparatus. When the splint is to be applied, it is bent so as to correspond with the front of the limb when the hip, knee, and ankle are somewhat flexed; it is then wrapped in the turns of a bandage, and the limb bound to its under surface. The double hooks are now made to catch the splint at about the middle of the thigh and leg, and a cord attached to both; to the middle of this cord is tied the end of another, rove through the tent-block and passing over the pulley, which is fastened to the ceiling. Extension is made in proportion to the degree of slant assumed by this latter cord when the limb is thus suspended; the weight of the body is the counter-extending force. If the extension is not made properly, or if the splint presses too much or too little above or below, the points of attach- ment of the suspending cord should be changed; and the efficiency of the apparatus may be enhanced by raising the foot of the bed with blocks. Sometimes, when the bone is broken obliquely and high up, it may be necessary to use the inclined plane in order to bring the lower fragment