6 VACCfNATIOK IN ARMIES the horse and the vaccine disease or cowpox ai-c believed to be the same disease with smallpox in man. And as one attack of smallpox is known to be an almost certain protection against subsequent attacks, so may the artificial production of a modi- fied smallpox in man present an immunity from further visita- tions. "It is well known," says Mr. A. B. Steele," "that Jenner was strongly impressed with the conviction tliat cow- pox is neither more nor less than a mild form of smallpox, and this prediction has been completely verified by subsequent observations." In the report of the Yaecination Committee of the British Medical Association,f the following conclusions, drawn from the information derived from various sources, may be found : First. That it has been proved that cattle, in many ages and in difi^'erent countries, have been aft'ected with smallpox. Secondly. That the disease among the infei'ior animals has simultaneously existed with the smallpox in man, and pursued its victims through every country of the globe. Thirdly. That it appeared among the cattle in England in 1T45, and again in 1770, and continued its ravages up to ISOO ; and that the local remains of this epizootic occasionally still show themselves with considerable severity. Fourthly. When the disease appears among the inferior ani- mals in a malignant form, it produces, by inoculation, a disease of a similar severity in man. Fifthly. That as man has received this affection from the cow, so likewise has the cow received it from man. Sixthly. The direct inoculation of the cow with human smallpox has produced a mihl and mitigated disease, and that such a disease reproduced by inocuhition in man, accords entirely in its character, its progress, and its protective influ- ence, with the variola vaccinia, as described l)y Dr. tienner, thus irresistibly proving his fundamental proposition, that cowpox and smallpox are not bona fide dissimilar, but identical, and that the vaccine disease is nut the preventive of smallpox, but * Liverpool Med. Cliir. Jour., July, 1858. f Trans., vol. viii.