38 blisters, their application to the abdomca during a period of from three to six hours is often of essential service. If the skin is very harsh and dry, it should be frequently sponged with chlorinated water or with vinegar. Alcoholic drinks, although they may appear to be indicated by the extreme prostration of the patient, must be very cautiously prescribed, for however they may tend to rouse his flagging energies, they are also, by continued use or in large quantities, very apt to exhaust the vital powers. A similar danger, it has already been stated, attends the use of opium. The decoctions of Peruvian bark and Huxham's tincture are preferable to quinia, when a tonic and not an anti-periodic operation is intended. Camphor, valerian, serpentaria, ammonia, and also turpentine have been recommended, as internal stimulants, but they are ineligible because they tend to disorder the stomach and irritate the bowels. Perhaps the only medicinal substance besides opium which is appropriate for internal use in this form of dysentery is nitrate of silver. It may be prescribed in doses of one or two grains, and in pilular form, every four hours, until a change in the quality or the frequency of the discharges takes place. Although this remedy is not so efficacious in the extreme cases of the variety of dysentery under consideration as when the 'vigor of the constitution is less completely undermined and the character of the disease is simpler, it has the advantage of being perfectly innocuous in the doses which arc here advised. But whatever medicines and whatever varieties of food may 1)0 employed to combat tlie dysenteric, the typhoid, or-the scor- butic element of the disease, they will be of little avail unless their influence is sustained by appropriate hygienic measures, and particularly by a change of air. A constant renewal of the air is an essential element of the cure wherever dysenteric patients are treated, and it is,*if possible, more imperatively necessary when the form of the disease is the one at present