13 become pale or livid, the countenance is expressive of anxiety whicli tlie patient does not feel, or it wears a shrunken and impassive look. The skin, covered with a cold clammy sweat, often resembles that with which wo are familiar in Asiatic cholera, known as the " washerwoman's." Increased heat may be perceptible to the hand, over the chest and belly, whilst the extremities are very cold. Complaint is made of epigastric tenderness and oppression. The stomach is often bo irritable as to reject even small rpianti- ties of ice water, or of any fluid that may be swallowed. The matters vomited rarely contain bile. They are usually com- posed of fluids administered, or of thin mucus, frequently mixed with blood. The thirst is one of the most striking symp- toms. Dr. Parry mentions some of his patients exclaiming, " Oil, that I could lie in the river! Oh, if I could have a stream of cold water to flow through me !" and this, too, with the algid skin, the cold tongue, and the cool breath. The bowels, sometimes quiet, are usually loose, the dejec- tions, after the first few, becoming copious and not unlike those of cholera, mixed with blood. When the alvine dejections continue bilious, the prognosis is favorable. Dyspnoea is, almost always, a prominent symptom. The respiration may be hurried, irregular, panting, or it may be performed by a succession of long-drawn sighs. With this difticulty of breathing is associated, as the rule, a small, weak, and frequent pulse, A constant sense of restlessness, nneasiness, or jactitation, indicates the state of innervation. Oftentimes, the patient, when nearly moribund, will insist on getting up from the bed and walking about the room. As in cholera, there is marked apathy as to the course and result of the disease. Cramps in the extremities are frequently observed. In some cases of conges- tive fever, the above mentioned symptoms may continue, with- out any change, except in augmented intensity, when the patient is apt to die either by coma, by syncope, or by asthenia,