15 equally rare for disavticulatiou to succeed, or for patients to survive more than a day or two after its performance. The remaining resource, excision, ptossesses at least the advantage of not putting life in immediate danger, one of the patients in the ten cases alluded to having survived five weeks, others from six to seventeen days, and only one so short a time as twenty-two hours; whilst, if the present percentage of recov- ery is maintained in a larger number of cases, it will prove a very much less fatal operation than disarticulation. Excision of the head of the femur, therefore, merits further attention from the military surgeon, and ofiers an additional chance of saving life in an otherwise almost hopeless class of cases. This is the only aspect in which the question is to be regarded; the usefulness of the limb left is a consideration not necessary to be entertained. Contrary to the course admissible in the upper extremity, in the hip, excision should be primary and immediate; sup- puration and exhaustion, or more rapidly acting causes, being sure to lead to a fatal result if anything like an expectant plan of treatment is adopted and the operation is deferred. And it may be said here, with regard to all excisions, that if the patient is in a state of shock, the administration of ether, (of the inhalation of which, under these circumstances, there need be no fear,) will often bring up the pulse and excite re- action to an extent authorizing an operation. , The ^hock following excision, and due to it alone, is necessarily less than that of an amputation, since the blood contained in the limb is not lost. Death from this cause has, however, fol- lowed excision of the larger articulations, and the surgeon should be forewarned of the possibility of its occurrence. Operation.—A curved incision just above the prominence . of the great trochanter, with its convexity directed downward in the long axis of the limb, or a straight incision in a line with the shaft of the femur, five or six inches in length, tlie centre of which shall correspond to the trochanter, exposes the upper part of the femur in a manner well suited for its removal, and without endangering any important vessels.