20 that the sooner ive produce the state of cinchonism the mwe speedily a7id certainly the disease will he subdued. Traditional belief that inflammation contra-indicates the employment of cinchona still unhappily influences the minds of many whose experience, in miasmatic ailments has been limited; thus allowing- their fears of an imaginary evil to stand in the way of doing the only positive good to be effected by medication, in breaking up the fever. Should there be irritability of the stomach, so great as to prevent retention of the quinine, the same course of treatment should be resorted to that has already been recommended for intermittent attacks. If the state of the bowels require a pur- gative, there is nothing more easily borne or more excellent in its effects than calomel. This may be given by combining ten, fifteen, or twenty grains of the mercurial with the same quantity of the quinine. Should the dose have failed to purge, in the course of six hours, a saline aperient may be advantage- ously administered. As a gentle medicine of this class, scarcely any is so generally applicable as the infusion of Epsom salt, senna leaves, and fennel or anise seeds. A wineglassful of this given cold, every two hours, is very little apt to be rejected by an irritable stomach, and is very sure to produce the desired alvine relief. Beyond this manner of prescribing calomel, it is doubtful whether it is advisable to go. The habit of systema- tically salivating patients for the cure of bilious fever is, happi- ly, becoming a thing of the past. Common sense should guide us, after the first purgation, in prescribing such medicines as will tend to prevent constipation. In case the first dose of quinine should not have produced the peculiar effects of cinchonism, within four hours, it is well to continue its use in smaller quantities, say from five to ten grains at intervals of like duration, until the paroxysm abate materially or the cinchonism occur. In cases of ordinary severity it may be necessary only to give a scruple of the salt, between the commencement of its administration and the