MILITARY HYG1F:NE AND THERAPEUTICS. 11 II, The Con.druction and Arrangement of Tenfs^ and other means which are employed to protect the Soldiers from the Weather. Tents should be made of a strong material and of close tcxtni-e, so as to perfectly exclude the rain. The ground on which the soldier lies should be covered with boards, with straw, with twigs of pine, hemlock, or cedar, or with itidia-rubbei' chitli, to exclude the moisture from beneath. In hot weather, where there are no shade-trees, the tents should be double, to exclude the solar heat, and ventilation should be afforded on the shady side. There should also be openings for ventilation at the up- per part of the tents, to carry oif the heated gases which accu- mulate in those regions. A sufficient number of tents should be provided to prevent over-crowding; and if, in any emergency, it should be necessary to crowd an unusual number of persons in a tent, the evil should be counterbalanced, as far as circum- stances will permit, by increased ventilation. The tents should not be allowed to remain many days in the same position, as the ground which they cover absorbs the emanations from the body, and thus vitiates the air. In fine weather the tents should fVequently be taken down in the morning and put up again in the afternoon or evening. Every fine day the cloth- ing and bedding should be freely exposed to the outer air. A sufficient space should be allowed between the tents to admit free ventilation. AVhen the tents have been removed to a new ground, unless it be to a great distance from their furmcr site,, thegi'ound from whii-h they have been removed should be i)uri- fied by si»rinkling it freely with charcoal, lime, or other disin- fecting agents. When circumstances forbid the removal of the tents, the ground may be purified by a similar use of antisep- tic agents. The French army surgeons in the Ci-imea used sul- phate of iron as a disinfecting agent. It was dissolved in fitteen times its weight of water. Three litres were used to dis- infect a sfpm,re metre of ground. It was also poured on collec- tions of filth, I'a'ces, &c. A litre is a little more than a quart ;. a metre is about thirty-nine inches.