6 Dr. Grlllck piiljlislied a lecture on Military Surgery, in tlic Amciican Medical Ifonthlij, for Deeemher, 1S55," in wliicli he describes a inetLod of using the phister of Paris similar to that of Pirogoff. Dr. Weber, of this cit}'', reported a case treated in this man- ner in the New Yorh Journal of Medicine, for May, 1S5(;. Other similar methods have also been recommended. Ban- dages with the meshes filled with dry plaster have been ap- plied to tlie limb and then wetted witli cold water; the plaster hardening in a few minutes, formed a solid easing for the liml). Maisonneuve, of Paris, has recently revived the use of this substance in the construction of splints for fractures. His method is similar to that of Pirogoff, and has been fully de- scribed by Drs. Smith and Swan, in their letters from Paris, published in the Aviericcm Medical Times, during the year 1861. It was applied, for the first time, in the ISTeAV York Hospital, in May, ISGl, by the author of this paper, and it an- swered the purpose so admirably, that its use was continued until, at the present time, it has almost entirel}^ sujiplanted the starch bandage and other modes of dressings for simple fractures of the leg. In this institution it is applied as soon as the swelling of the limb has subsided, and it then makes a permanent splint for the limb. Its advantages are: its facil- ity of application, and its perfect adaptation to the limb, being borne by the patient better than any other form of appara- tus. It never gives rise to undue pressure over the salient points of the Kmb, and its property of absorbing moisture keeps the lind) perfectly dry, preA'enting the confinement of the perspiration, and thus doing away with one cause of irri- tation and excoriation. It may be applied Avith impunity over denuded surfaces and abrasions, Avithout danger of pro- ducing any irritation, slight excoriations or abrasions healing readily under it. Its advantages over the starch l)andage are its rapidity of drying and hardening, the plaster taking about five minutes * llepublishcd in American Medical Times, during Mny, 1801.