VENEREAL DISEASES. 17 subjects shows an excess of albuiiieii and a diminntion of cor- puscles; in sliurt, a condition of cliloi-o-anainiia obtains. Tlie teachings of clinical experience are still more decisive. Noth- ing HO obsti'ucts the successful treatment of syphilis, and noth- ing so conduces to a relapse after an apparent cure, as a low condition of the general system. Hence the surgeon should aim to build up, and not to pull down; and this is to be ac- complished by placing the patient under the most favorable hygienic influences, and by the use of tonics, as iron and quinine. 11. Xo one form of mercurial is adapted to all cases. The following formulffi are given as examples of those most fre- quently applicable : ^. Pil. Iljdrargyri 3 j. Ferri Sulph. Exsiccat 3 ss. Divide into 80 pills. One three times a day. I^. Hydrarg. Bichloridi gr. ij. Tiuct. (Jentiau. Comp. Jiv. M. A teaspoon- ful. J^:. Hydrarg. Protiodidi gr. x. In 20 pills. One after each meaL ^. Hydrarg. cum creta 3j. Qui- ni;e Sulphatis 3 ss. M. In 30 pills. One three times a day. IJi. Ilydj-arg. Bichloridi gr. ij. Po- tass, lodidi 5 ij. Tr. Gentian. Co. 5 ij. Aquas ^ ij. M. A teaspoonful. J^. Hydrarg. Bichloridi, Ammoni;e Muria,tis, aa gr. ij ; dissolve in a suf- ficient quantity of water and add [)0\v- dered crackej- q. b. Syrupi Acacia? q. s. M. In 30 pills. 12. The action of mercury nixni the bowels sliould, if neces- sary, be restrained by the addition of opium or astringents; and, in some instances, the internal use of the remedy must be suspended and inunction employed. 13. Salivation is to be regarded as prejudicial to the success of treatment, and should be carelully avoided; although it is often justifiable and even desirable to excite slight tenderness of the gums, in order to be sure that the full effect of the remedy has been obtained. Salivation is most suecessl'uUy treated by omitting the mercurial, securing iVeedom of the bowels, astringent gargles, and the intei-nal administration ot the chlorate of ])otassa (3j—ij per diem in solution). 14. Mercurial cachexia is rarely induced when the remedy is judiciously employed, especially if combined with hygienic ti'eatment and the use of tonics. If, however, in any case,