9 of the articular surfaces as already inflicated, and also to divide t]ioron<i,-hly the fibrous bands connectinir the scaphoid and astragalus before attempting to enter the joint, as the thin edge of the seapliold juts over the latter in some degree ; 4th. The articulation being entirely laid open, and all its ligaments freely divided, pass the flat of the blade behind the bones, and having brought up the end of the foot into its natural position, cut out a flap from its plantar surface, which should extend beyond the sesamoid bones in order to possess sufficient length; the knife should graze the bones in making the flap, care l)eing taken to avoid tlie projections of the scaphoid, cuboid, and lirst and flfth metatarsals. AMPUTATION AT THE ANKLli JOINT. Amputation at the ankle joint -was performed witli very in- different success by tlie older surgeons. The failure was due rather to the inutility of the stump, than to tlic moi-talitj'- after the operation. It was their invariable practice to make the flaps from the tissues about the aid'cle, and, with but rare ex- ceptions, they left the malleoli undisturbed. The first difficulty which they experienced was in closing the wound over the projecting malleoli, and the second was the protrusion of these processes through the meagre covering of the stumj), when the patient began to use his limb. Unfavorable as were the cir- cumstances attending the early methods of perf )rming this operation, still, man}^ cases are on record in which a useful limb was obtained, due, doubtless, to the entire or partial absorption of the malleoli. Amputation at the aid-;le joint did not, therefore, obtain a place among the legitimate operations of the earlier surgeons. It may fairly be cpiestioncd if opera- tive surgery has in any instance made a more imjiortant advance toward the realization of its humane ])\ii'j)oses of saving life and restoring useless limbs than in tliis single j)ar- ticuhii- of amputation at tlie ankle joint. Pi-evion-ly to 1843, m all atlections of the foot involving its I'cmoval, ampntation 1