IG TTcTnov.il of siir- 4. Tlie iiiiniecliatc removal of all snrface-iiltli, garbage, Diyii.K oMiuiuid and decomposing materials, and tlie drying of sueli localities ' and all Avet surfaces by means of surface drainage, chy sand or earth, and desiccating with lime or charcoal if at hand. Special veotii- 5. Order such improvement in the ventilation of all occu- ?un'urd°''suppiy picd apartmeiits as Avill insure the steady snpply of not less °^ than from twenty to forty cubic feet of fresh external air to each 2KTS011 every minute hj day and hy nigJd. Also let Sunlight. into all places an abundance of sunlight. Systematic 0. If tlic iufcctcd qnarters or place must continue to be diamage. occupicd many days, institute a system of thorough and deep drainage of the entire locality ; also take measures for ■waier-suppiy. securiug the best water-suppl_y. cheeifuiaess ■ Fi'om tlic first, and continually, call into operation all and hope. proper uioaus for increasing the cheerfulness, hopefulness, and genei'al morcde of all })atients and attendants, and let Attention to hy- all the principles of hygiene be bronglit into their fullest gitmcuvv». operation in the persons and apartments, and throughout the entire locality in which eiidemic infection prevails or is liable to prevail. iTyRienic m^n- Special Iliiqienic Manaqement of Patients and Wards : ageiiient of i>a- . "^"1. . . . .7 ■ 7- 7 • tiu.,cs and wards. Ventilation, JJisinJ'ection, JJistnmUion, Isolation, etc. Only nne kind 1. Avoid allowiug more tliau ouc of the types or kinds ease to be allow- of really infectious disease at one time in the same apart- ed in a single ~, . .-it- , , • • ^ ward. meiit. ihis rule is particularly important m managing the infections diseases comprised in the Second class. Patients not to ^- Pi'oliibit the accumulation of large numbers of patients greafumMblTs.''' sufltcriug froiu tlicsG maladics in one apartment or upon a small area ; and if ever it should be necessary to have any- thing like the usually allotted number of patients in a -ward, let the ventilation of such an apartment be improved and ail-space must be kept ill tlio iTiost cffcctual ojieratioii. When jiracticable, au^neiHing nilio thorc sliould 1)0 au allotment of from 1.500 to 2,500 cuhic u|)oii llie nuiubeis ./■,//•• , i ,. , . , ' , ' gi>- egated. ject oj air-sj>ace to each patient lu such a ward.