MILITARY HYGIKNK AND THKRAPEUTICS. 21 tlie broken timbers fall upon the wounded and the sick, whose beds are overturned into the pools of rain which inundate them. Most of the patients are unable to move, being quite prostrated by illness, or by severe wounds, and lie waiting with resigna- tion that which the will of God may determine respecting them." In the French army in the Crimea each ambulance for ten thousand men had three caissons, containing materials for six thousand dressings, and eighteen complete tents. Flying am- bulances on mules' backs were provided for regions where car- riages could not go. As an example of the manner of taking care of the wounded during and after an engagement, your Committee presents the following directions given by M. Scrive to the medical officers of the French army in June, 185.5 : "At tlie ambulance of the trenches shall be assembled before the bat- tle the non-combatant soldiers—the musicians of the regiment, for example, with the infirniarj'' men disposable in the different services. One or several officers of administration will direct them in the trenches to take up the wounded, and trans- port them to the ambulance. An officer of administration, having a fixed position at the ambulance, will attend to placing the wounded, on their arrival, in an order always tlie same, and determined beforehand to avoid confusion. The visits to the wounded shall be made by one or more surgeons, assisted by two or more infirmary men carrying dressings, &c.; one of these last will inscribe the name of the patient, his regiment, and his matriculated number. The surgeon will determine whether the wound requires to be dressed immediately, or if the patient can be at once transported to the ambulance of the division. In the first place, the wound may be dressed on the spot, or, if an immediate operation is required, the patient may be conveyed into the operating room. After the dressing or operation, the patient may be placed upon the litter or ambu- lance cart. Where four to six wounded persons ai"e I'eady, they shall be conveyed together to the ambulance of the divis- ion ; and in these little successive journeys, tlie muleteers, un- der the direction of an officer commanding the train, shall betake themselves to the ambulance, whose number shall have