10 ducts of inflatninalion. These assume tlio form of slireds of false menil)raiie, or of masses resembliiit? suet, more or less in- tiiDalcly associated with blood. Yet even in tliis variety of the disease, blood is not always nor in large quantities found in the dejections, which are sometimes abnost suppressed, and in other cases have a lum])y appearance rcsemblinj^- imperfectly-cooked gruel. This is the form in which the fibrinous cxudatioa most fi-equently discharged. As the disease advances, the stooU have a fetid, sickening, or cadaverous odor, become more and more frequent, and at last are passed involuntarily, while the anus becomes exquisitely tender, and is surrounded by inflamma- tory redness. In some epidemics such stools are at times mixed, or alternate with others which arc more or less green and frothy, particu- larly on the surface, and have been compared to the scum which is seen floating upon stagnant water. The number of the stools docs not always gradually decline, but often they almost en- tirely cease, and, after an interval, are renewed with a tempo- rarily increased frequency. But in general, tliis interval becomes longer as convalescence approaches. Meanwhile there is extreme irritation of the bladder, and th^. scanty and high-colored urine scalds in its passage through the urethra. The thirst is intense, but all liquids, even the coldest, are apt to be rejected by the stomach, and to i)roducc renewed paroxysms of tormina and tenesmus. Often a severe buiming- pain in the alxlomen is complained of. At first the pulse is full as well as [Ve(|uent, but rapidly assumes a tci-se, wiry, concen- tralod character. The voice is interrupted and weak. The tongue is sodden and thickly coated in the early stage of some cases, l)ut afterwai-ds is more frequently contracted, sharp, and very red, and gi-adiially becomes dry, rough, fissured, brown, or blackish, in unfavorable cases ; but this condition is far from being constant; the features arc sunken and sharp, the nostrils