4 Baniliiges ought never to be applied directly to a fractured limb at first, except in special cases, as for instance when the patella or the olecranon is the seat of injury. This rule is particularly imperative where the sur- geon is obliged to send the patient away from his immediate oversight, since irreparable mischief from constriction of the SM'oUen limb may have ensued before it is examined by another medical oflBcer. Splints should never be too small. If flat, they should be wider than the broken limb, so that a triangular space is necessarily left between the splint and the bandage on either side of the limb. In recent cases, where swelling is to be looked for, this is a matter of importance. Shaped splints should never surround the limb more than one-third, and there should always be a layer of some yielding substance, such as cotton batting or folded flannel, tow, or bags stufi"ed with bran, chaff, sand, sawdust, dried leaves, or fine hay, between any splint and the skin. Splints should never be too short. The whole of the broken bone needs support, and in order to this the joints at either end must be secured as far as possible at perfect rest. Nothing is more essential to safety and comfort during transportation than attention to this point; and the only safe rule is to aim at supporting the entire limb. Wooden splints are somewhat less easily attainable in military than in civil practice. If flat, they may be made to fit better by conforming their outlines to those of the injured limb; it is sometimes well also to cut holes, with carefully rounded edges, for the reception of bony prominences, such as the condyles of the humerus. Tin splints are highly spoken of by some authors; the only disadvantage they have is that they cannot be so accu- rately adapted to the part as pasteboard, unless the sheets are selected especially on account of their thinness, and then they would be apt not to be firm enough. An excellent plan for putting up fractures of the extremities, in an emergency, may almost always be adopted; it is only strange that it is so little known. This is to take a bundle of straw, the stifi'er the better, (wheat straw is the best,) and to enclose the limb in it, the component straws lying parallel to the axis of the limb. The latter and its envelope may then be bound round with wisps of straw, strings, bandages, or any convenient article, care being taken not to compress the seat of fracture too strongly. Greater firmness may be given by inserting two or more sticks among the straws at either side of the limb. Should swelling now occur, the dressing will yield, the straws being simply drawn out in the direction of their length. The state of the parts may be readily watched; haemorrhage will be at once manifest; and when the dressing is to be removed, we have only to loosen the circular bands. Extension and coun- ter-extension may be made in various ways, upon a limb thus done up. When suitable straw is not to be had, hay, the stems of bushes, corn-stalks S