13 TYPHOID FEVEK. they are to be given boldly, without reference to any do2;nuis of their contra-indication in certain stages. The pnlso is u safe guide ; if frequent, hard, and quick, stimulants are contra- indicated,—if frequent, small, and compressible, or infrequent and compressible, they may be given witli safety. In doubt- ful conditions, the practitioner should carefnlly watch the effect himself, administering the medicines, if need be, witli his own hands. On his faithfulness in this particular, the life of the patient may depend. Among the most efficient of these agents are the pure wines, brandy, and the carbonate of ammonia.'^ Local Affections and CoMrLicATioNS.—Where there is obstinate delirium and coma, the head should bo shaved and a blister applied to the scalp. In copious and alarming epistaxis, occurring at any stage of the disease, recourse must be had to plugging the nostrils anteriorly and posteriorly. Hemorrhage from the bowels, a grave but by no means an invariably fatal symptom, is to be treated by injections of starch with lau- danum, by the acetate of lead in jjill, or other astringents. Dr. William Ashmead has found great efficacy, in threatening cases of intestinal hemorrhage, from the administration of kino in large doses. Dr. AV^ood has employed the same remedy in such cases with signal success. He uses it " almost without limit," as " freely as the stomach will tolerate it." Thus " a teaspoon- * Among the most suitable of tlic stimulants is icitie whey. It should be prepared by adding one part of good (Sherry) wine to two parts of boiling milk, and straining after coagulation ; of this from a tablcspoonful to a wine- glassful may be given every two hours. Brandy is often advantageously ad- ministered in the form of milk fuiich., made with one part of brandy and two parts milk, and given in doses of cue, two, or three tablespoonfuls every hour or two. Garh. ammonkit should be administered in doses varying: from grs. ijss., to grs. X. every hour or two, and is best given in emulsion. The fol- lowing formula may be used: I^. Am. Carb. 3ii., Acacise pulv., Sach. alb. aa. 5ii., Aq. Menth. p. vel A(i. ttuv. f 3 vi. M. From a teaspoonful to a tablcspoonful to be taken every hour or two, diluted with a little watei-.— Noiti to Wood'H Practice of Medicine. When stimulants are moderately r.'ijuircd, and in the hemorrhagic state, u judicious use of the tinct. chlo. ferri. is often advantageous.