ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. .9r when sufficient pressure is made, the arteiy will be forced down upon the bone, and the circCilation controlled, which will be indi- cated by the suppression of the pulse at the wrist. It is better to apply the Tourniquet above the elbow, even in wounds of the hand or forearm, as the artery divides at the elbow and its branches are also more protected from the proper pressure of the instrument by the presence of two bones. But if the hemorrhage still continue after the application of the Tourniquet to the upper part of the arm, I would fill the wound and apply pressure immediately to the bleeding surface. The second diagram is intended to show the course of the great artery of the thigh from the centre of the groin, where it leaves the cavity of the abdomen, down to the centre of the hollow space behind the knee The pulsation of this artery in the groin may be distinctly felt with the fingers or ball of the thumb, when the thigh is bent towards the body, by pressing in the groin about half-way between the point of the hip-bone and the centre of the body. The pressure must be sufficient to reach the bone beneath, and varied a little along the course of the bone, until the artery is detected. This is the highest position in the inferior extremity to which the Tourniquet can be applied in wounds of the groin, and in such cases it is generally necessary, from the profuse hem- orrhage, also to stuff the wound. I would do all that was possible by either or both methods to stop the loss of blood. Where the wound is very high, the band of the Tourniquet may be allowed to pass around the hips, placing the pad over the stuf- fing of the wound. No harm can come from the trial, though it is very difficult to control the artery by any instrumental means at this point. . .. . ' The lowest point of the inferior extremity to which it is cus- tomary to apply the Tourniquet, is the popliteal space behind the knee. If the leg be bent nearly to the thigh, and the ends of the fingers pressed between the two lines of the cords, in the space behind the knee, so as to bear upon the bone, the pulsation of the artery will be distinctly felt at this point, and by sufficient force may be arrested. In fact, this is one of the most convenient placesfor applying the Tourniquet whenwe are allowed our choice, as the broad extremity of the thigh-bone forms an admirable