VENKRKAL DISEASES. 11 2. The diajrnostic (iluiraetcrs of tlie siin]-)lc ehaiici'e and tlie infecting cliuncre (tlio initial lesion of true syphilis) are the fol- lowing: SIMPLE CHANCRE. Origin.—Always derived from a sim- ple chancre, or virulent bulw. Its first appearance generally witliin a week alter contagion. Anatoiiiiad Chfirncters.—Generally multiple, either from the first or by successive inoculation. An excavated ulcer, perforating the whole thickness of the skin or mucous membrane. Edges abrupt and well-defined, as if cut with a punch, not adliering closely to subjacent tissues. Surface flat but uneven, "worm eaten," whollj' covered with grayish .secretion. No induration of base, unless caused by caustic or other irritant, or by sim- ple inflammation; in wliich case the engorgement is not circumscribed, shades off into surrounding tissues, and is of temporary duration. Pulhdkxjirjil Tendencies.—Secretion copious and purulent, inoculable. Slow in healing. Often spreads and takes on phagedenic action. May affect the same person an in- definite number of times. Chardctnrintic Gland Affection.— Ganglionic reaction absent in a large |)rop')rtion of cases. When present, one ghmd accutely inflamed, and gener- ally suppurates. Pus olten inoculable, producing asol't chancre. rNFECTING CnANCRE. Origin.—Always derived from an in- fecting chancre or secondary lesion. Its first appearance often from one to five weeks after contagion. An(domic<d Characters.—Generally single; multiple, if at all, from the first; rarely, if ever, by successiv(,' in- oculation. Frequently a superficial erosion : not involving the whole thickness of the, skin or mucous membrane, of a red color, and nearly on a level with the surrounding surface. Sometimes an ulcer, when its Edges are sloping, hard, often ele- vated, and adhere closely to subjacent tissues. Surface holh)wed or scooped out, smooth, sometimes grayish at centre. Induration firm, cartilaginous, cir- cumscribed, movable upon tissues be- neath. Sometimes resembles a layer of parcliment lining the sore. Gener- ally persistent for a long period. Pcdhologicnl Tendencies.—Secretion scanty, chiefly serous ; inoculable with great difliculty, if at all, upon the pa- tient or upon any person under the sypliilitic diathesis. Less indolent than the chancroid. Phagedena rarely supervenes, and is generally limited. One attack afi'ords complete or par- tial protection against a second. Charnctcristic Gland. Affection.—All the superficial inguinal ganglia on one or both sides, enhirg(>d and indurated ; distinct from each other, freely mova- ble ; painless, and rarc^ly suppurate. Pus never inoculable.