40 colon or rectum have not been established. Henee the urgent necessity of withholding from tlie patient liis ordinary food when this is coarse and too abundant, and from his usual occu- pations when they involve undue fatigue or exposure. The most useful form of diet is milk, with bread or other mild farinaceouB preparations, especially rice, and a gradual and cautious return to solid food, consisting of mutton, beef, or poultry, in very small quantities at a time. Many cases are cured by lime water and boiled milk, in equal parts, with tlie addition of biscuit, if tender, or softened by hot water and slightly salted if it is hard and stale. Both bread and biscuit, if toasted, are thereby ren- dered more agreeable to the taste and more digestible. Soups are generally ineligible, for they are apt to occasion flatus, griping, and an increased frequency of the discharges. It is of the utmost importance tliat the drinking water should be of good quality. If it contain any appreciable amount of vege- table or mineral matter, it should be purified by boiling. While moderate exercise in fair weatlier promotes the cure, fatigue itt to be avoided, and suitable clotliing, especially a flannel shirt, should be prescribed as essential. In warm weather sea bath- ing, if not unduly prolonged, is of decided service. The medicinal treatment of clironic dysentery demands great circumspection and judgment, to adopt it to the peculiarities of each particular case. If the irritability of the bowels is very great, indicating, probably, a certain degree of inflammatory action, warm fomentations of tlic abdomen, opium in small doses, and nitrate of silver or acetate of lead, siiould be em- ployed. Tlic dejections onglit to be frequently inspected, and if found to contain scybala, half an ounce of castor-oil, or ten or fifteen grains of rhubarb, eitlier alone, or with about five grains of bhic mass, should be prescribed. In more atonic forms, iiitiutc of silver and acetate of lead are still the most useful remedies of their class, and next to them sulphate of