36 dry powders mentioned, it is available for delaying the process of decom- position, whether in a corpse, or in refuse material. Carbolic acid has the antiseptic powers of creasote, and is largely sold for that article. The antiseptic properties of coal-tar, its effect upon mephitic gases and putrescent material, the permanency of its operation, and the cheapness of the article, render it available for extensive application in neutralizing and arresting cloacal and noxious effluvia in the processes of animal de- composition. A distinguished Medical Inspector of our army, when cut off from ordinary medical supplies, effectually and quickly abated the nuisances pertaining to an extensive old fortress, by means of an extemporized mixture of coal-tar, procured from the gas-works upon the premises, l^or use in chamber vessels, close-stools, etc., a neat fluid preparation may be made, after the formula of M. Demeaux, by mixing equal parts of coal-tar, alcohol, and hot soft soap. With the progress of knowledge respecting the chemistry of coal-tar and other hydro- carbons, the precise value of this class of disinfectants will be better understood. Coal-tar certainly has remarkable efficacy in arresting putresence and controlling its effluvia. Heat.—As a means of immediate disinfection of contaminated gar- ments, bedding, and even of close apartments, ships, etc., heat is at once a cheap and most effectual method. The boiling of infected clothing, etc., is admitted to effectually destroy any contagious poison. And prac- tically, upon a large scale in such work, experience proves it is best to employ steam as the means of heating. Upon this subject, see remarks and plans of M. Baudens [^Hospitals and Health of Troops, Am. ed., pp. 238-204]; also, a Report on Heat as a disinfectant, in the Transactions of the National Sanitary Convention, 1860. It is probable that no cir- cumstance contributes more directly to the perpetuation and spread of the typhus poison, than the accumulation and bad management of con- taminated clothing, etc., that ought, under all circumstances, to be puri- fied as soon as it leaves the patient or the bed. Frost or Loio Temperature, when continued a sufficient length of time, will effectually destroy both the miasma that produces yellow fever, and the paludal malaria that produces intermittent and remittent fevers; but such low temperature has no effect to arrest those fevers in the persons suffering them. It is worthy of note, that a freezing tem- perature does not appear to mitigate the activity of the personally infec- tious poisons, or contagions; though, with certain exceptions, it arrests putrefaction and the catalytic or fermentative processes. For the Commission: ELISHA HARRIS, M. D.