VACCIXATION IN ARMIES. 16 of puberty eases begin to be more frequent, and that the greatest number occurs between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five. These two facts it is important to bear in mind. What can be the cause of tlie inefiiciency of protection in cer- tain cases? It may, the author tliinks, be explained by recur- rence to the facts stated above, namely, the greater tendency to variohwd during the epidemic prevalence of smallpox tlian at other, times, and greater frequency between the ages of fifteen and twenty-five tlian at any other period of life. Thus the security afl:brded by the vaccine disease, or smallpox, occui-riiig in seasons when no epidemic influence exists, may be efi'ectual under similar circumstances, but may fail during an epidemic when other forces are added to that of the con- tagious cause. That persons are most liable to the affection between fifteen and twenty-five would seem to show that the changes which take place about the period of puberty, and continue in operation more or less until that of maturity, which may be roughly placed at twenty-five or thirty, are favorable to the development of variolous disease; and that a degree of protection, which might be sufficient either earlier or later in life, is insufficient then." In the report by Dr. F. W. Sargent of cases attended in the Philadelphia City Hospital in 1845-6, it is stated that of the cases of vai-ioloid or smallpox after one vaccination, amounting to one hundred and thirty-six, more than twice as many occurred in the ten years from nineteen to twenty-nine, inclusive, as in either of the ten years preceding or following those ages.* In a paper by A. B. Steele, Esq., M. K. C. S.,t the follow- ing passage occurs. "The opinion so frequently expressed, that the protection afforded by vaccination in many cases lasts for a certain period only in the life of the individual, is by no means of recent origin, for in 1S09, Dr. Brown, of Mussel- burgh, published the opinion that the protective virtue of cowpox diminished as the time from vaccination increased. Dr. Copland, also, in 1S23, arrived at a similar conclusion. * Am. Journ. Med. Sci., N. S., xvii., 373. ■|- Liverpool Mod. Chir. Jouvn., July, 1858.