10 PNEUMOXIA. of tlie exudation may go on with great rapidity, even wlien no active measures of treatment are employed. In tliis respect cases differ greatly. It is certain that, before the natural course of this disease had been observed, the more or less rapid dis- appearance of solidification, occurring naturally, was often at- tributed to remedies supposed to act as sorbefacients. The complete removal of the exudation, in favorable cases, leaving the pulmonary structure intact, is an important as well as highly interesting fact. The tendency to run into a chronic form, as is well known, does not belong to this disease. It is rare for it to eventuate in the third stage, or the stage of puru- lent infiltration, even in fatal cases. Abscess and gangrene are also results extremely infrequent. With a few exceptions, it may be said that resolution of the affected lung is sure to take place if the life of the patient be sufficiently prolonged. This fact has a very important bearing on the indications for treat- ment. 8. In the majority of the cases in which pneumonia proves fatal, the mode of dying is by asthenia, rather than by apnoea. The patient rarely dies in consequence of the extent to which the respiratory function is compromised. It is not unusual to observe complete solidification of an entire lung with very little embarrassment of breathing. The fatal termination is much oftener due to failure of the powers of life. This is true of the different varieties of the disease, and of cases in which the dis- ease is complicated or uncomplicated. The indications for treatment in cases of pneumonia must have regard to the stage of the disease. When patients are seen in the first stage, i. e., prior to solidification of the aftected lobe, important objects of treatment, if attainable, doubtless are the limitation of the inflammation, the prevention of exuda- tion, and the restriction of the local affection to the lobe first invaded—in other words, the arrest of the disease. Are these objects attainable? With our present knowledge, this ques- tion resolves itself into another, viz.: Will the antiphlogistic method of treatment, so called, of which blood-letting is the most prominent measure, control the disease? Clinical expe-