9 Sthenic Dysenfery.—This form of tlie disease is distinguished by the full development and sthenic nature of the characteristic symptoms, which arc eminently those of an inflammation of the rectum and colon. It generally commences with a well-marked chill, followed by a hot skin and a full and frequent pulse. More rarely than in the milder form, is it preceded by simple diar- rhoea, or, if this occurs, it is more vehement, and is accompanied with nausea and even vomiting. With the reaction from the chill the face becomes flushed, especially on the cheeks, and the eyes are injected, while the frequent and tense pulse, the severe headache, and urgent thirst denote a high grade of fever. Colic of a very severe description and almost unremittingly, is expe- rienced ; and the abdomen, which is often tense and hard, but not nccessaril}' distended, is very sensitive to pressure, espe- cially in the left iliac region. Severe contusive or aching pain is also felt in the loins, extending to tlie thighs. But the chief cause of suffering is tenesmus, which in many epidemics is almost uninterrupted, and becomes excruciating while the patient strains at stool. It is, in some cases, nearly constant, even when nothing is voided, and tlie expulsive efforts bring on a protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum. The sensation is sometimes said to be as if a burning iron were thrust into the bowel. It is important to be noticed tliat the extreme degree of pain here described is by no means an unfa- vorable symptom, but may perhaps be rather considered as a measure of the patient's power of resistance. Tlie opposite condition, or complete inertia, is indicative of a much more serious danger. The quantity of matters expelled is in an in- verse ratio to the frequency and tlic violence of the expulsive efforts, particularly at the height of the disease. Near its com- mencement profuse discharges of blood may take place, which, indeed, afford some relief; but later, the stools consist of blood mingled with dense stringy mucus, or with the fibrinous pro-