PNEUMONIA. 17 the latter. The phmtation netrro at tlie South is less able to sustain it than the white man, and, conseqnentl3^, is more likely to need support. In the varieties of the disease distin- guished as asthenic and typhoid, the reliance for successful management must be on supporting measures. These views are tlie more to be impressed, because it is undoubtedly true that, until lately, the minds of medical men have been so much occupied with the means of subduing inflammation, as to overlook the fact that the means for this end not only often conflict with those which are more important for recovery, but may be posi- tively injurious, and even destructive to life. The attention has been directed too much to the disease, and too little to the patient. We have seen that we cannot expect to subdue the disease; we can only hope, in the first stage, to moderate its intensity. But not a little can be done, by judicious man- agement, towards aiding the powers of life to carry the patient safely through the disease. The supporting treatment embraces tonic remedies, alcoholic stimulants, and nutritious di'et. Of tonic remedies, quinia is to be preferred. It is not indicated in mild cases ; but, when- ever there are grounds for anticipating undue depression of the powers of life, it may be given, and continued during the prog- ress of the disease. The propriety of giving this remedy, in tonic doses, in a malarious region, as well as to patients who have had periodical fever, has been already mentioned in con- sidering the treatment of the first stage. Under these circum- stances, the continuance of the remedy during the second stage is not less appropriate. Alcoholic stimulants form a very important part of the sup- porting treatment in this disease, as in all others, whenever the great object is to keep the patient alive until the disease lias reached the end of its career and advanced into the stage of resolution. The principle is the same as in the essential fevei's. And here, as in the management of the essential fevers, alco- holic stimulants are indicated to an extent commensurate with the danger from failure of the vital powers. In pneumonia, as in typhus or typhoid fever, there is often a remarkable toler- ance of alcohol; and the only guide, as regards quantity, is the