CONTINUED l-'EVERS. 12 it under any circnnistanccs, after the first week. If now the case become of moderate or oven average severit}', all per- turbatiiig treatment is to be avoided. Care, Avatclifnlness, and good iinrsing is the snni and substance of the therapeuti- cal management in such cases: the tendency of the disease is towards health, and there is no evidence that the dangerous complications, which are likely to occur, can be prevented by any active interference. In severer attacks, the synjptoms must be met as they occur, having due regard to the vigor and strength of the patient. To moderate excessive heat of the skin, warm, tepid, or cold sponging is indicated ; where there is much debility, diluted spirit may be substituted. The ner- vous symptoms, restlessness, wakefulness, and subsultus, are best alleviated by camphor-water or Hoffmann's anodyne, and by opiates in small quantities, when not contra-indicated, at night; laudanum enemata are of great value, when sleep is required to be induced in such cases, and tend rather to di- minish than increase cerebral cono;estion. But for excessive subsultus with a brown tongue, brandv is the appropriate remedy. Simple diluent drinks are, at all times, beneficial ;— of these pure cold water is the natural febrifuge ; a weak in- fusion of flaxseed (5 ss. to water Oj.) taken when cold, often and in small quantities, is especially appropriate, and always palatable and gi-ateful to the patient; give them abundantly, as often as they may be desired. If tympanites is extreme and painful, a mucilaginous enema containing 3 ss. of turpen- tine will oftcntim es give signal relief. Blisters to tlie aidcles and inside of the calves will sometimes i-evive the patient, when the lungs are congested and he is seemingly in articulo mortis. In the debility attendant upon the advanced stages of the disease, tonics and stimulants become absolutely essential ; they must be adapted in activity to the degree of prostration, and yet must be exhibited with caution. The precise ])(.iiits at which stimulants are demanded is often a nice question to determine. The early appearance and i)ersistence of an ady- namic condition may call for their adoption at the outset, and during the whole course of the disease; in such case?