19 Peruvian liavk. It is sufficient to say that none of them have stood the test of experience, when compared with tlie great remedy. In rebellious cases, the arsenite of potassa, as administered in Fowler's solution, is, by most practitioners, thought to rank next after quinine, as a curative agent. It should be given in ten drop doses, in water, after eating. This seems to insure its more speedy action, and to prevent gastric irritation. Care should be taken to suspend its use, as soon as the facial oidema or articular pains it causes appear. .In patients who need a tonic, after the disappearance of tlie fever, there is nothing more advisable than the use of the nitric or nitro-muriatic acids. Ey some practitioners, indeed, tlie former is considered one of the most trustworthy^ febrifuges we l^ossess. The quinine hitters are admirable for this purpose. The practitioner should not fail to remember how often the effect of any strong impression on the mind serves to put off an intermittent paroxysm. A confident assurance, with certain psychological constitutions, has often prevented an attack of ague. The well known plan of administering a powerful emetic, as the infusion of boneset, an hour or two before the time for the chill, is well to be kept in mind. If practicable, it is advisable, when anti-malarious remedies fail, to remove the patient from miasmatic influence. This, alone, in cases apparently intractable, has sufficed for a cure. The almost universally beneficial effects of a sea voyage are well proved. In the treatment of Remittent Fevers., our endeavor should be, to put the patient, as soon as possible, under the influence of quinine. Much harm is done by the practice of waiting to "prepare the system," before administering the only really efficacious remedy. There may be instances, it is true, in which it is necessary to treat disordered conditions of the stomach or bowels, before the febrifuge can be taken ; but such constitute exceptions to the general rule. It may he taken as an axiom