14 into proper relation with the upper, tilted upward by the action of the psoas and iliacus muscles. At a late stage in the treatment, union having duly taken place, and the callus merely needing support, some form of the immovable apparatus may be found useful. Fractures of the patella occur very rarely in army practice. "When longitudinal, the only treatment they need is confinement of the limb and the subduing of inflammation. When transverse or oblique, it is necessary to fix the fragments, which may be done with strips of adhesive plaster applied above and below, a splint being placed behind the knee to prevent anything like flexion. Another plan, described by Dr. Sanborn, is to apply a roller from the toes to the trunk; before covering the knee with this bandage, a strip of adhesive plaster is laid lengthwise down the front of the lower part of the thigh and upper part of the leg, and fastened by turns of the bandage or by other strips, its middle part being, however, left uncovered. A hard compress is now placed under this loop of ad- hesive plaster, above the upper fragment, and by pinching up the loop and twisting it with a piece of stick, the fragments will be pushed together. Fractures of the hones of the leg are extremely troublesome when they occur on the march. The same means may be used in these cases as when the thigh is the seat of injury,—straw splints, temporary extension, a fracture-box, as circumstances may allow. Support should be given to the whole limb, from heel to hip, and the foot should be carefully secured from falling either inward or outward. The ordinary fracture-box, having a bottom, two sides, (fastened to the bottom by hinges of leather or iron, if possible,) and an end, the latter projecting up high enough to keep the bedclothes from weighing on the toes, may be stuffed with straw, or a pillow laid lengthwise in it, and serves as well or better than any other arrangement for the transportation of the patient. (See cut.) Extension and counter-extension can be readily made in such a box, in a manner which will suggest itself, when shortening is present; adhesive plaster is the best material for the purpose. Wire splints may be adapted to the leg, as to the thigh; and any form