AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. 10 liavo been proved, in long: journeys, to !ie valuable prophylactics against fever and the pestilence of the jungle." •• It is found that these alkaloids, given in certain doses, not only cure the disease, but that if administered to those exposed to the malarious cxhalati(jns. tliey prevent the attacks of tlie disease altogether."—Enajclopniia Brilnnniea, Art. '■ Intermitteiit Feirr." "From the day of my arrival on the coast I took quinine morning and evening, in doses of three or four grains. This I have found a good ]ire- ventive. * * « * " During my whole stay in Africa I took from time to time, even when in perfect health, doses of quinine wine as a prophyhictic or preventive against malaria."—Bu Chaillu's Equatorial Africa, ch. 18, p. 369. lu eonclnsioii, it ma}' be fairly assumed, even from tlie evi- dence thus imperfectly and hastily collated, that the power of quinine as a preventive of miasmatic disease, is fully established as a medical fact; and that it can be employed, not only with entire safety, but with the greatest advantage, even to the saving of life, by healthy persons exposed to malarial influences. Viewed in the light of humanity, as well as of economy—both of men and money—the prevention of disease is of far greater importance than its cure, and your Committee venture to ex- ])ress the opinion that intelligent and judicious action on this important subject, at the hands of the proper authorities, would save much sickness and many valuable lives during the present campaign. On behalf of the Committee. Wm. H. Van Buken, Chairman. At a meeting of the Committee of Inquiry of the Sanitary (k>mmission, September 80th, 1S61, it was Re-wlrcd, Tliat the Report of the Committee on the use of quinine as a pro phylacticbe printed as a document of the Commission, and put into immediate circulation, especially among th(! Surgeons of the Army and Navy, and that copies be sent to the Surgeon-general and to all the heads of De[)artraents. Rcsolrerl, That th(! Secretar_v of War be urged to draw the special attention of the iNledical Bureau to the subject, and to the conclusions of this Report, and that he be rcsjicctfully advised, if approving the Report, to instruct the Surgeon- general to place "quinine wine," or "bitters," among the articles which may be drawn by orcbnary requisition by the Medical Officers of tlve Army. ReHolmd, That the President and Secretary, with Dr. Wood, be a committee to carry tliese resolutions into effect. H. W. BELLOWS, Chairman.