16 Wlienever the Lead still maintains its connection with the rest of the bone, the precaution should be taken to dislocate it from the acetabulum before,detaching it from the shaft. The comminuted fragments are to be dissected out, or the upper portion of the bone protruded and sawed off. The great trochanter, whether injured or not, should always be removed, otherwise it will project into the wound, prevent healing, and act as an obstruction to the discharge of pus or exfoliating fragments of bone. In the single successful case of excision for traumatic cause, five inches of bone were re- moved. After-treatment.—Subsequent to the operation, little more is required than rest, and the maintenance of the limb in a proper position and right direction with the body. The ten- dency in the end of the femur to protrude at the wound is a point especially to be remembered. A bottle of water of variable weight, at the end of a cord attached to the leg by means of sticking plaster, and then passing over a pulley at the foot of the bed, will partially secure these ends, but no regular extension with splints or apparatus is admiss'ble ; shortening or deformity are of little importance if-the pa- tient's life is saved; and to secure this, his comfort and repose, free from bandages, or their frequent adjustment, are more important considerations than the precise position or condi- tion of the limb. In the successful case already alluded to, the limb was placed in a sling of stout canvas, which hung from a beam over the man"s cot, and the plane of which formed an angle of twenty degrees with the horizon. This method of treatment was adopted in order to approximate the upper end of the bone to the pelvis, as well as to prevent the lodgement of matter amongst the tissues and to favor its escape. At the end of three months the patient was able to leave his bed, upon crutches. The shng adopted in this case has since been imitated in many instances of the operation for disease, and has been much liked by those who have ased it.