7 VACCINATION IN Aim IKS smallpox itself, the virulent and contagions disease being a malignant variety. The late Samuel Forry, M.D., of New York, formerly of the United States army, remarks: "That the opinion has received a very remarkable corroboration in the recent experiments of Mr. Ceely, of England, which seem to prove that not only may the cow be inoculated with variolous matter, but it may thus be converted into vaccine. Two experiments made by Dr. Thiele, of Kasaii, in Russia, appear to confirm the same result. In 1836 he inoculated some cows on the udder with the matter of smallpox, which produced vesicles bearing all the characters of the true vaccine vesicle in those animals. During seventy-five successive transmissions in the human subject of the vaccine virus thus produced, it appeared always to retain its normal character. In 1838, M. Thiele repeated this experiment with the same success."f The subject of vaccination, whether in civil or in military life, may be considered under thi-ee heads : 1. Does vaccination (ifford positive protection, to those exposed to the variolous con- tagion? 2. Is that protection permanent., or is it modified hy any circumstances ? 3. If not permanent, is revaccinaiion a preventive of the disease? 1. Does vaccinat ion afford positive protection to those exposed to variolous contagion ? In considering this first question we are struck with the vast amount of evidence which has lieen accumulated in its favor. It finds no parallel in any other scientific investigation. Tiie committee have endeavored to select such only as seemed most * Strong evidence in support of this proposition is found in the fact that rat- tle who were put to g-raze in a field where the bedclothes of smallpox patients were exposed to the air, contracted the disease and presented not only the char- acteristic eruiition, but well-marked constitutional symptoms. (Wilson on Dis- caxen of the, Skin, 4th Am. cd., p. 45:3.) Dr. Waterhouse, of Cambridge, Mass., in a letter to Dr. Jenncr, details the communication of the disease to cows by the hands of milkers who were sufiering from variola; and Dr. Sonderlaud, of Bremen, communicated the. smallpox contagion to cows by C(5vering them with sheets between which persona fatally alfectijd with smallpox had lain. f Boylston Prize Essay.