13 PNEUMONIA. tion, such as the spirits of turpcntiiK', often afford marked re- lief. The oiled muslin jacket contributes to comfort hy keei)iiig the surface of the chest moistened with perspiration, and, if a flannel coverin"; he added, all tlie advanta<>;es of a poultice, or the water-dressing, are secured. It is hardly necessary to say that blisters are inadmissible, certainly in this stage. There need be no reluctance in prescribing opium in this stage, for the relief of pain. The value of opium for other objects will claim attention presently. If the phenomena of intermittent fever are devcloi)ed, quinia should be given promptly and in efficient doses. Tho jiaroxysms should be arrested as speedily as possible. The patient may be placed in great danger by their rcjtetition. The existence of the pneumonia and the degree of symp- tomatic febi'ile movement in no wise conflict with this impor- tant indication; indeed, so far from conflicting with it, the sedative influence of full doses of quinia may be useful, aside from the arrest of the paroxysms. In a malarious I'egion, or if the patient have been sul)ject to attacks of intermittent fever, it is judicious to forestall the possible development of the latter aftection b}' moderate doses of quinia. It is a good rule, in such cases, to commence at once with the use of this remedy, irrespective of the liability to the occurrence of inter- mittent paroxysms. The malarious cachexia impairs the power of resisting the disease; hence its greater fatality in malarious regions, even when uncomplicated with intermitting fever. The indications which have reference to the second stage of pneumonia are now to be considered. And it is to be borne in mind that this stage occurs in the vast majority of cases, and often speedily follows the attack. The change, as regards the indications, renders it important to determine when the disease has passed into the second stage—in other w'ords, when the solidification of the aftected lobe has taken place. The physical signs of solidification (bronchial respiration and bi'on- chophou}') afford reliable evidence on this point. The absence of chlorides in the urine, also, may be relied on with consider- able, but not implicit, confidence, that the process of exudation is going on.