18 In all such cases, a complete solution should be effected by tlie addition of a drop of elixir vitriol or dilute sulpliuric acid for each grain of the salt. An opiate may be advantageously combined with it, where irritability of the rectum exists. The use of opinm or of capsicum, in some cases increases the tolerance and efficiency of the quinine. From one to two grains of the former or its equivalent, in one of the morphine salts, with ten grains of the latter, may be used. , In obstinate cases, the paroxysm is more apt to be averted, when the patient is kept in bed for an hour before, and an hour after the time at which the chill is expected. There is no special medication, beyond that already indicated, necessary in the treatment of ordinary intermittent fever. Where failure attends our efforts to subdue the disease, in the manner indicated, it is well for the physician to examine into the quality of the febrifuge. The temptations-to adulterate have been strong, and in many instances, the article dispensed is consequently inefficacious. Should the disease have already lasted some time, it will be found advantageous, in obstinate cases, to combine the quinine with iron and capsicum, in the proportion of two grains of the former v^ith one grain of dried, powdered ferruginous sulphate, and an equal quantity of red pepper. A pill thus composed may be administered every three hours, during the day, until thirty have been taken. Chinoidine may be substituted for sulphate of quinia, by doubling the dose. It answers, in some instances, where an idiosyncrasy exists, preventing the use of the latter. It is fsir from uniform in strength. Of sulphate of cinchonine, the same remarks will apply, with regard to relative efficacy. Salicine is efficacious in many instances. It should be given in at least three times the dose recommended for quinine. The same may be said of heeberine and cornine. It is not deemed necessary, here, to mention all the proposed substitutes that have been suggested for the active principle of