18 licalod aiiipntations or open Avoiincls must be kept out of their presence and beyond tlieir inliucnce. Sanitary meas- Tlic univcrsal expericncc of military surgeons and oflicers urcs slioiild be . , , ^ . t , , . . . bo.ii lea-onabie Qi Jiospitals lias sliown llow mdispensaulv important it is and cOTeciive. ■ that a reasonable and effectual system of domestic and per- sonal liygiene, based upon the principles and maxims here stated, should be intelligent!}^ enforced wherever the infec-. tious pests of armies spring up. And it may be remarked, that the same localizing conditions and the same sanitaiy The sreciabeg- iicglects that Avc liave mentioned in reference to the most Illations tliat con- * t i. £> i • j"* i m ' /' j.* i n tioi and prevent virulcnt ot endciTiic lebrile miections, seem to be equally rile infections, aS aClivC and fully as important in the production and o t Ii e r en Icniic endemic diffusion of the causes of camp dysentery and the i.eases. fatal diari'lia^al affections that follow in the trail of armies. Camp (lysente- And whether personally communicable or not, the latter infectious'"^nd maladics are often seen to be as much dependent upon en- communicable. . -i t t • • i ■ ^ i demic and localizing causes, in iiospitai wards and other localities, as typhus and hospital gangrene. Were we to group that class of maladies for consideration in these pages, we might properly place them in a separate or sub-class, and reo-ard them as being somewhat allied to both the second and third classes of infections. The maladies here re- ferred to, Avhen occurring in crowded military cpiarters, endemics mnsi l;e transports, or hospitals, should be regarded as being con- tingently infectious. In these diarrhoeal maladies it is ad- adniitted that the dejections from the bowels tend to per- petuate and spread the same maladies. And this process may properly be denominated infectious, though there is not as definite a period of ineuhation as that which charac- terizes the febrile types of infection. Third class of TiuRt) Class OK Infectioxs.—At the risk of some just in cc ions. criticisius upon this classification—an arrangement adopted solely for a practical object—Ave have, for the occasion. Reasons fo r grouped together the three remarkably distinct and fatal this peculiar i • j /• 77 t '77 /> grouping. diseases—ti/jmouijevet', c/iolem, and yellow jercr. Whatever may be true and whatever doubtful in the history of these maladies as regards the mooted question of