CONTINUED FEVEES. 18 cause, till his system lias been brouglit to a point below the power of resistance. It follows that ininiunity from tlie re- ception of contagion in the exposed, and from an aggravation of horrors on the part of the sick, is to be obtained, as far as possible, by a strict ol)servancc of thu wcll-Icnowii maxims of hygeine—first and foremost amongst which is tlie possession of a stout heart, and a sutliciency of the liglit and air of heaven. Hence an explanation of the f;ict that, in the sheds and shanties, open to the elements, which of ]iecessity have been resorted to when the disease has sprung up suddenl}^ and pre- vailed extensively, both patients and attendants have fared the better. Varieties and Forms.—These are only such as depend upon different degrees of severity, and arc more or less constantly connected with the different seasons of the year. Some epi- demics may be characterized as mild, others as severe; and, in the same visitations, may be found every grade between the two extremes. During the winter and spring, the fevers will most likely be complicated with pulmonic affections ; in summer and autumn with gastro-intestinal irritation, perhaps; and, at uncertain times and seasons, grave consecutive affections may supervene. DiAaNOSis.—Among the chief characteristic symptoms, are the following: abruptness of the attack, the early and great prostration, the rash, the dusky hue and sensitiveness and peculiar odor of the surface, the passive engorgements, ten- dency to muscular and nervous agitation, and freedom from •important local derangements. Thus the accession is sudden, preceded only by a day or two of trifling ailment, and accom- panied very uniformly by anorexia, rigors, nausea, pains, hot skin, depression, and headache. The depression is an early and almost constant attendant; the strength soon becomes ex- hausted, the mind and memory confused, and the spirits de- spondent. This exhaustion continues till, in tlie acme of th(,' disease, the powers are completely overwlielmed. The hot