MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 23 the liip-joint. Nine primary amputations at tliis joint were performed by the French surgeons in the Crimea, and in all death took place within a few hours after the opei-ation. There were three consecutive amputations at the hip : the patients severally lived five, twelve, and twenty days. Kesections were generally fatal, except in the upper extremity. Scrive remarks, tliat when amputation was performed a day or two after an in- jury, it was much more difficult to induce anesthesia thaii when the amputation was performed on the same day. The am- putations were as follows: hip, 12 ; thigh, 1,512 ; knee, 58 ; leg, 915; foot, 211; toes, 220; shoulder, 168; arm, 912 ; elbow, forearm, and wrist, 278; hand and fingers, 282, The average dressings for each ^Datient were: of linen, 2,482 grammes; roller bandages, 891 grammes; charpie, 1,181 grammes. The weight of dressings during the campaign amounted to 196,000 kilogi'ammes. (A gramme is about 15 grains; a kilogramme 2 lbs. 8 oz. troy weight). Average number of dressings for each wounded person, 35 ; total number of dressings, 1,100,000. Numljer of surgeons wounded by the fire of the enemy and by the explosion of magazine, 19. One died in consequence of his wounds. The labors of the surgeons were excessively se- vere. Each surgeon, on an average, was obliged to visit daily more than lOO patients. Eighty-three French army sur- geons died during the war. It is very evident that the amount of labor thrown upon the medical officers of the French army was unreasonably great, and that the number of these officers should have been largely increased. When an army is called into active service, and is exposed to pestilential diseases and to bloody engagements, a much larger amount of medical ser- vice is recpiired than can be reasonably expected of a surgeon and an assistant surgeon to each regiment. Your Committee does not consider it necessary to enter into the details of the treatment which is required in gunshot wounds, and in other injuries to which soldiers are exposed, as these subjects are treated at considerable length in the text- books of surgery, which are in the hands of most of our prac- titioners. There are, however, some practical lessons to which a passing allusion may be made witli advantage. When the