35 culo of tlie virus, and this is to be cfTcctcd by means of the pipette syringe, the pointed stick, the scissors, and the sohition, for local appli- cations ; and by its pungent and volatile vapors in wards and other in- fected places. This disinfectant certainly promises to be a great boon to our military hospitals. Permanganate of Poiassa.—K. special order from the Medical Bureau at Washington [Circular, No. 12], calls the attention of medical ofhccrs to " the virtues of permanganate of potassa as a disinfectant and deodo- rizer." This is a soluble substance peculiarly convenient of application and remarkably certain and efficient in its effects as a disinfectant. Its employment as a deodorizer and prophylactic is limited mainly to topical applications, to gangrenous parts or putrescent materials, and to general eflect opon the atmosphere of contaminated apartments, by means of evaporating cloths saturated with a strong solution of the permanganate. The oxidizing and antiseptic eflects of the permanganate of potassa upon organic and putrescent matter arc remarkable. It is the most sensitive test for the presence of organic matter, which it oxidizes with won- derful facility. [&e remarks upon tliis suhjeci in Hammond's Jlijgiene.] As this is an expensive and delicate substance, it is to be employed economically, upon saturated cloths or in dilute solutions upon plates. For purifying oflensive water for purposes of beverage, etc., a standard solution should be dropped into the vessel of water, until the iinge of the permanganate begins to appear. The rapid and effectual oxidation of the organic {putrid) elements of impure water and other substances, even of the atmosphere itself, when brought in contact with solutions of this salt, and the consequent and almost instant deodorization of such impurities, render this disinfectant of priceless value I'or practical pur- poses. And as all preparations of manganese are therapeutically tonic, probably the minute quantities of this salt that would be taken in drink- ing the water purified as above described, would only act beneficially. " Condy's Disinfectant," " Darby's Fluid," and all the vaunted prepara- tions of " Ozonized water," etc., are but solutions of permanganates. The salts are cheaper and more reliable than such nostrums, and are now supplied by all medical purveyors in the army. Coal-tar Compounds—Carholates.—The carbolate of lime has been employed to some extent in our camps and hospitals. lIcDougall's powder consists of carbolate of lime, sulphite of lime, qaick-liine, etc. The Eidgewood disinfectant consists of carbolic acid, proto-chloride of iron, etc., comljined Avitli fullers' earth. Either of these, which are fur- nished by the medical purveyors, appear to be quite as valuable as the more expensive article of M. II. Corne and Denieaux's, Avhich is used at the Imperial Camp at Chalons, and was found highly serviceable by Bar- ron Larrey, after the great battles of the late Italian campaign. Goal tar, in almost any form, is available for disinfecting sewers, etc., and in the