VACCINATIOX IN ARMIKS. 11 {h.) In other countries, where vaccination is more or less compulsory, the deaths from smalli^ox in the foUowino- towns are as follows: Westphalia, (I; Saxony, S.83 ; lihenish prov- inces, 3.75; Pomerania, 5.25 ; Lower Austria, <; ; Bohemia, 2 : Lonibardy, 2; Venice, 3.2; Sweden, 2.7; Bavaria, 4. By referring to the accompanying table i)repared by-Mr. Haiie, and found in Mr. J. Simon's report,* the past and ].i'es- cnt ravages of the disease may be seen at a glamre, and two series of facts Ijc noticed. "1st. How many persons in each million of population died annually of smallpox, Ix'farc the use of vaccination ; and, 2d. ilow many persons in each nnlli(tn of ])opulation have annually died of smallpox since the use of vaccination." The author draws the conclusion, as the reader may also do, between the case of Sweden, in the twenty-eiglit years before vaccination, and forty years soon afterwards: "During the earlier period, there used to die of smallpox, out of each million of the Swedish population, 2,nr)(t victims an- nually ; dui-ing the later period, out of each million of po]>ula- tion, the smallp(;\ deaths have annually averaged 15S."' " Or, com[)are two periods in Westphalia : during the years l776-'80, tiae smallpox death-rate Avas 2,0-1:3; during the thirty-five years, LSl6-'50, it w^as onlj' 114." "Or, taking two metropol- itan cities: yon rind that, in Copenhagen, for the half-century 1751-1800, the smallpox death-rate was 3,128, but for the next half-century only 2>>6 ; and still better, in Berlin, where for twenty-four years preceding the general use of vaccination, the smallpox death-rate had been 3,422, for foity years subse- quently it has heen only 170. In other words, the Jatality of smallpox, in Co])enliagen, is but an eleventh of what it was; in Sweden, a little over a thirteentli; in Berlin, and in lai-ge parts of Austria, but a twentieth ; in Westphalia, but a twenty- lifth. In the last-named instance there now die of smallpox but four persons where formerly there died a hnndri'il."" (P. xxui.) J!y reference to the second table, it will be seen that in a mnnher of places observed, the death-rate varies amongst * Papors rclaliiiir to tlu^ History and Practici/ nf Vaccination. Presented tO' liotli liouses of Parlianii III by connnand of her Majesty. London, ISoT.