8 AMPUTATION AT THE MEDI0-TAE8AL ARTICTILATION. (cHOPARt's OPERATION.) To recognise the Articulation. {Condensed fr07n Bernard and Euette.)—^\\Q articulation at the middle of the tarsus is formed by the astragalus and the os calcis behind, and by the cuboid and scaphoid in front; the inter-articular line -which crosses the foot transversely resembles the italic oo of which tlie anterior convexity is internal and its posterior convexity external. The internal extremity of the articulation is just one inch in front of the internal malleolus, and two lines and a half behind the tuberosity of the scaphoid. The external ex- tremity is half an inch behind the projection formed by the head of the fifth metatarsal bone. It corresponds with a prominence on the external surface of the cuboid bone, which is situated just one inch in front of the external malleolus. The centre of the articulation lies immediatel}' in front of the head of the astragalus, whicli can be made to project hy forcibly extending the foot. On the outside of this prominence is a depression sensible to the touch, lying between the astra- galus, the cuboid, and the os calcis; the articulation is imme- diately in front of this. Rides in Operating.—1st. The exact position of the articula- tion having been recognised by the means above indicated, the surgeon grasps the foot with his left hand, its sole being placed in his palm, his thumb upon the external extremity of the articulation, and the index finger upon the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone; 2d. The knife is then to be carried across the dors\im of the foot from the thumb towards the index finaer, making a semi-circular incision which descends about half an inch below the line of the articulation ; 3d. After the retrac- tion of tlie integuments, divide the tendons which remain uncut and open tlie articulation, bearing in mind the varying obliquity operation on the foot, nnd it is distinguished hy this title from //euV- operation tlirougli Ihc mctntarsus.