CONTINUED FEVERS. 22 sulpliate of moi-pllia; i or even j\ gr. in solution, given once or twice at intervals of an lioui-, will often ])ro(lucc the desired efl'ect. The general nervous disturbance, great sensitiveness, morbid vii>;ilance, restlessness, and subsultus, is best allayed bv camphor, in doses of 4 to G grs. cither in emulsion or the form of the ordinary camphor mixture. On the signs of adynamia or general exhaustion, recourse is at once to be had to stimulants and tonics, and these oncebes-un are oftentimes to be continued through the course of the fever, sometimes in the face of condi- tions commonly demanding an opposite policy. Thus not nii- frequently, "while dealing with some severe disturbance by local depletive means, vigorous stimulant measures are, at the same time, to be adopted in order to keep the general system up to the vital point. Of the stimulants, the strong wines—sherry, madeira, and port—are the best. Combinations of some stimu- lant and tonic are often beneficial. A mixture composed of sherry and the sol. sulpli. quinias in equal parts (of which from 5 ss. to f j. may be taken every two hours), is most excel- lent. When the system has been habituated to strong drinks, brandy is preferable. At the same time beef tea and the nour- ishing broths may often be administered with the best re- sults." In the advanced stages, when there is muttering deli- rium, coma, involuntary evacuations, cold extremities, a flutter- ing pulse, and rapid sinking of the poAvers of life, there may be added to the above treatment stimulating injections, hot pediliivia, friction to the spine, dry warmth, flying blisters, sinapism to the inside of the thighs, legs, and arms. Thus " Often in conjuuctiou with slieriy, beef tea, and milk and water, p. r. n., llie following, which arc among the standing Hospital mixtures in Great Britain, may ho given according as the symptoms nf jn-ostration, combined with nervous excitement, are more or loss ur'i-eut. 1. Ilikl Fecer Mixture. 2. Strong Fever Mixture : ^■ Liq. amnion, acet. 3 ii. mist, camph. nqnsr distill, aa. 3 ss. M. Ft. Hau.st. Amnion, sosqnicarb. gr. v mist, camph. 3 jss. M. Cn]^. 3j. qua(]ue 4t;i liora.