14 PNEUMONIA. In tlie second stage, so far as tlie local aifection of the lobe priinai-ilj involved is concerned, all the mischief which, in the niajoi-ity of cases, may be expected to occur, has already oc- curred. The only untoward events (exclusive of complications) which are to be apprehended are the invasion of other lobes, and possibly suppuration and gangrene. The probability of the invasion of another lobe cannot be determined, and, if this were possible, the prevention does not lie within the scope of our resources. What, then, are the objects of management in the second stage of pneumonia? It may be assumed that blood-letting is not indicated in the second stage. The nauseant and arterial sedatives may be in- dicated by the persistence of high febrile movement in certain cases ; but they are to be employed with even greater circum- spection than in the first stage, and they are not to be given for other objects than those already stated. In a large propor- tion of cases they are either uncalled for or contra-indicated in this stage. In order to answer the inquiry just made, let it be asked. What are the requirements for recovery in the second stage of pneumonia? So far as the local affection is concerned, the ex- udation is to be removed ; in other words, resolution is to take place ; and, as regards the general condition, the powers of life must be adequate to carry the patient through the processes of restoration. The objects of treatment must relate to these re- quirements. The question, then, is, What can be done to pro- mote resolution of the local affection, and what to aid the powers of life to effect recovery ? Fird; as regards resolution of the local affection. Antimo- nial preparations have been considered to contribute to this object. Laennec, ascertaining by means of physical explora- tion the i'a[)id disappearance of solidification under large doses of tartar emetic, was led to extol this remedy. But at that time cases of pneumonia without any active treatment had not been observed. It is now certain that the solidification may disap|)enr with great rapidity, not only under different reme^ dies, but when no remedy is given. Laennec and others natu- i'ally enough mistook for the efiects of medication the changes