8 SPECIAL FRACTURES. Fractures of the Lower Jaw.—These are best treated by means of the bandage described by Dr. Barton, and known by his name. (See cut.) Another and simpler plan is to slit up a bandage, 3 inches wide and a yard in length, from either end to within 3 inches of the centre; which being applied over the jaw, the two tails on either side are crossed over one another, and the corresponding ones tied at the top and back of the head respectively. A cap of paste- board, folded paper, or even plaster of Paris, should first be fitted to the chin. If time permit, the coaptation of the fragments may be further ensured by enclosing the teeth adjoining the injury in a loop of fine wire, tightened by twisting its free ends together. The extraction of a tooth is seldom if ever necessary to enable the patient to take food. Fractures of the Clavicle.—In these we must often be content with simply suspending the arm in a sling, made or folded into a triangular shape, the apex being pinned or sewed up so as to bring the elbow as far as possible across the front of the chest. The best bandage is Velpeau's, particularly when the patient has to be transported; it is so little known in this country that a description of it may be useful. The hand of the injured side being brought up so as to rest upon the sound shoulder, a roller 2^ inches in width is applied, beginning in the sound axilla, passing across the back to the injured shoulder, down in front of the arm, under the elbow, up behind, and over the shoulder, and down across the front of the chest to the original point of starting. This having been several times repeated, turns of the bandage are made horizontally around the body and the arm of the injured side, from below upward, until only the hand and the tip of the shoulder are left uncovered. The arm is thus bound to the trunk, and the whole is secured by inserting pins wherever the turns of the bandage cross one another. Whenever it is practicable to place the patient permanently on his back, the deformity in fractures of the collar-bone will be found much lessened, or almost entirely corrected. Fractiires of the JRibs and Sternum.—These call simply for pressure on the walls of the chest; which may be made either by applying broad strips of adhesive plaster, first stretched, covering in the point of injury