8 t^inaTI-j)<>x.—The facts rclatini;' ti; this most coiita<riou3 ^ciioMmaii'"'ji'N-inalady are too well understood to need any statement of Kiiii's discovery. t • i i i i tlieni m this paper. It is the most strongly marked type of specific poisons, and tlie certainty of its contagious cpiality, and tlie liability of its infectious diffusion, made it the scouro-e of the ci\'iHzed world until Jenxkr discovered the prophylactic power of vaccinia or the eo\v-]:)Ock. vaccinaiinnand I'lie value of vaccinatiou in armies has been Inciillv sot iis value in ar- _ _ •• ""i^s. forth, and in a very practical manner enforced, in a special report or monograph upon the subject ^Medical Docunieni^ E\ by a committee of associate members of the Sanitary Kcpori of Profs. Comniission. Cordiall y commending to surgeons and com- Smiih and suuo. inaudiuo; ofBcers that valuable embodiment of information upon the subject of vaccination and the protection it affords, we will here quote the concluding sentences of that report: Conclusions of " Ist. That primary vaccination is a positive protection, tiiatieport. witliiu ccrtaiu limits, agalust small-pox. 2d. That there is a period of life when that influence declines, and that the history of epidemics teaches that small-pox will attack a variable proportion of the vaccinated if exposed to its influence. 3d. That the mere j)OssibU 'dy of such a de- cline renders reprotection necessary, -ith. That in re-vac- cination we have an almost infiillible restorer of that protec- tion and preventive of the spread of variolous epidemics. Hence, that re-vaccination in all bodies exposed to variolous contagion is im2)eratively demanded. 6th. That the opera- tions of A'accination and re-vaccination are unattended with danger to those subjected to them. The committee Avould therefore earnestly recommend that the SanitaiT Com- mission make such representation to the pi-oj)or antliorities as M'ill secui'e the re-vaccination of all soldiers wIk.) cannot pi'ove its performance upon them within the i)revions five years ; and that ai'rangements be made b,y which g()od vaccine vims may be distributed by their agents to the medical officers."' [Signed.'] Fkancis G. S^rrrn, M.D., Cli'n. Ai.i'KKi) Stili.e, ]\I.D.