12 PNEUMONIA. can only influence the local affection indirectly, in so far as the latter is intensified by the former. Now, the febrile move- ment may be not less efficiently restrained by saline purga- tives, and by the nauseant and arterial sedatives, of which an- timony and the veratruni viride may be named as the most reliabie. The salines deplete without the loss of the blood cor- puscles, or spoliation, and the sedative remedies diminish the frequency and force of the heart's action. These remedies, then, may take the place of blood-letting, certainly in the great majority of the cases in which this measure would be admissi- ble if substitutes were not to be found. Antimonial preparations and the veratrum viride are potent remedies which are only to be employed to meet certain indi- cations. They may do much harm if injudiciously or indis- criminately employed. They are indicated in cases in which the pneumonia is said to be fi-ank or sthenic. They are to be given with great circumspection when, from the previous health, the constitution of the patient, or other circumstances, danger is to be anticipated from failure of the vital powers. Tiiey are never to be cari'ied to the extent of producing marked depressing effects. The benefit to be obtained from them can be secured without these effects. They are not given to in- fluence the local affection directly, but only through their action upon the circulation. They are imperatively contra- indicated whenever the action of the heart, as represented by the strength of the pulse, denotes a tendency to failure of the powers of life. Given, or persisted in, under these circum- stances, they will contribute to the danger of death by asthenia. Relief of the acute pleuritic pain which belongs, in some cases, to the first stage of pneumonia, is an object of treatment, fvesti "ainiiig the movements of the aftected side, pain induces fatigue, from the increased frequency of the respirations, and conduces to suffering from dyspnoea. Local measures will do much towards this object. A considerable number of dry cups is an efficient measure. Wet cupping should be limited to cases in which the loss of the blood abstracted by this mode will be well borne. Stupes witli water only, or with some stimulating applica-