10 QUININE AS A PBOPHYLACTIC " It was ascortained, on inquiry, that it was his habit to take quinine daily, during the summer, before leaving his liouse ; the quantity he did not know, for he never weighed it. His entire and complete confidence in his ability to resist fever in so malarious a retrion is Btrong evidence that lie had been in the habit of using quinine, and was well satisfied of its prophylactic virtues. This case, in conj unction with the statements from the officers of the Niger expe- dition, would appear to prove that quinine may be used under exposure to ma- larious influences for an indefinite period, not only without compromising the general health of the individual, or injuring the constitution, but as surely protecting the system from the inroads of malarious disease." The same writer further states, tliat he was "called in Au- gust to see one of the contractors on the Charleston and Savan- nah Railroad, laboring under a very severe attack of remittent fever, contracted during the superintendence of his contract between the Ashepoo and Combahee rivers, notoriously a very unhealthy region. During his convalescence he informed me that he would have to return to his work on the road, where he had a large number of hands employed (150); that they were negroes brought from healthy regions in jSTorth Carolina, and he expected all of them to be more or less sick, as they were entirely unaccustomed to a malarious climate. I advised him to take quinine daily himself, and to give it to all his hands, white or black. Late in the fall I met him in the city; he looked healthy and well. He thanked me for the advice 1 had given him ; told me he had cari-ied up some pounds of quinine; had used it himself daily, and compelled all his em- ployees to take it also; that he himself had never had another attack of fever; that his health was better than it had ever been, and that not a single one of the 150 hands he employed had been attacked by fever. In fact, he said : 'The only case of sickness I have had was in a negro who had come from North Carolina sick.' In April, ISiO, the writer, then an assistant surgeon in the United States army, was detached from the staff of the late Gen. Worth, at Tampa Bay, Florida, for duty at a military post in the interior (Fort King), where a serious outbreak of mias- matic disease had just occurred. The stock of quinine on hand * American Journal of ISIcdical Sciences, January, 18C1, from Charleston Medical Journal and Review, July, 18C0.