30 or inultoii brotli is gcncraHy well borne; bul, if not, (.lie amy- laceous preparations may be substituted. The copious use of rice water or barley water, or, still better, of rennet whey or of chicken water, should be encouraged. ]f the patient is not of a vigorous constitution and is not affected with purely sthenic dysentery, purgative doses of calo- mel arcpi cfci-ablc to the salines. Tliese should lie pTcsci-ibed in the dose of twenty grains, wilJi a grain of oi)iuni in a single dose, or in two or tln-ce clones of from five to ten grains of calomel, and one grain of o|)ium in each, to be taken at intervals of six or eight hours, and followed, after a similar space of time, by aa ounce of castor oil. Usually, before the lattei- medicine is ad- niinistei'cd, there is a marked abatement of the patient's suffer- ings and of the frequency of tiie stools, and the calomel has not to be repeated. Under this medicine the ev^acuations also change their ciuiracter, and contain bile and feculent matter rather than blood. The remainder of the medical treatment may in general be confided to live grain doses of Dover's powder every live or six hours, or from three to five grains of ipecacuanha, with half a grain or a grain of oi»iuin at like intervals ; or, if the sthenic character of the symptoms be still decided, a grain of calomel may be added to each dose of either of the powders just referred to. But such an addition is not generally advisable, owing to the i-isk of inducing salivation. If the stools oblige the palieut to rise frequently at night, and so prevent his obtaining rest, a full dose of opium (one or two grain?) or eight or ten grains of Dover's powder should be administered at bed time. En(!nnita are useful in this form of dysentery, if in any acute form, of which there is serious doubt. If frequenlly repeated, they arc excessively annoying, and often appear to augsiicnt the iri-ilabiliiy of the rectum. But occasionally and appropri- ately employed, they serve to palliate the tenesmus, and the ir- ritation of the organs adjacent to the rectum. For this pur-