23 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. " From 184:3 rcvaccinatioii lias been coinpnlsory in the Bava- rian army ; and from that date to the present time (1S5T) neither a single death by smallpox nor even a single case of nnniodi- ried smalli)o.\ has occurred in that population."^' "For (he last 21 years revaccination has been general in the Danish army, and for the last 13 years in the Danish navy , and these two populations have almost entirely escaped con- tagion during several epidemics of smallpox."f In Sweden the practice is similar, and the results equally satisfactory. In the Swedish army J,9ii revaccinations were performed in 1852, of which 614, or 33.11 per cent., were suc- cessful. In the Baden army revaccination was introduced in 1840, and has since been effected with the greatest punctuality and exactness, with the exception of the years 1848-''i}-'50, when, in consecpieiice of jiolitical events, it lapsed. The number of men attac-ked in twelve years by variola and varioloid before the introduction of revaccination was 1G9, wdiilst the corre- gponding number after its introduction for a like period was 52 oidy, of whom only 12 had been operated on with success, the remainder having been revaccinated without result, or else not at all. Dr. T. Graham Balfour, head of the statistical branch of the medical bureau of the British army, in his fii'st general report, presented to Parliament at its last session, has given an inter- esting statement of the results of the very general vaccination and I'evaccination in the British army during the years 1858-9. We cpiote the following statements and statistics from Dr. Bal- four's report: In 1858. in consequence of a number of cases of smallp(>x having occurred in the army, particularly in India, among persons who had, to all appearance, been previously satisfacto- rily v accinated, a departmental order was issued that in lutnre every i-eo-nit should, on joining his regiment, be vaccinated, cvun it he slioiihl he I'ound to have marks of smallpox or pre- * Royal Ministry of War. t Butiyd of Iloaltli.