32 The topical applications of the acids, particularly of the nitric acid, in arresting gangrene, are well understood by surgeons. Nitrous acid is a valuable antiseptic, and the production and application of its fumes con- stituted the famous disinfecting process of Dr. Carmichael Smyth. The fumes of nitrous acid that so long had fame for di.sinfccting pur- poses in the barracks, hospitals, and navy of Great Britain may be readily produced by heating a mixture of nitrate of potassa and sulphuric acid in an iron or porcelain dish. Persons who resort to this method of fumigation, should bear in mind the fact that strong fumes of nitrous acid are dangerously irritating to the throat and lungs. The.se fuming acids are powerful oxidizers, but their avidity for water, together with their peculiarities of chemical affinity, render their value as disinfectants somewhat uncertain. Nitrate of Lead.—Practical considerations place this salt at the head of odorless disinfecting salts most available for certain local applications, siich as deodorizing a close apartment, and the bedding, etc., of sick per- sons, by means of a solution distributed on shallow vessels or upon saturated cloths. The nitrate of lead is the basis of " Ledoyen's liquid." Hhe permanganate of potassa is far the most efficient salt of this kind, and its cost alone should limit its employment. It is a chemical agent of different and far greater powers than any of the metallic salts in this third class. Chloride of Zinc.—Though more powerfully antiseptic than nitrate of lead, it is not as valuable a deodorant. It is most to be valued for its property of promptly arresting putrefactive processes. As " Sir Wm. Burnett's disinfectant," it is widely known. Both tliis salt, and that of lead, last mentioned, may be employed to delay decomposition in a corpse, in the absence of an embalmer. This is best accomplished by wrapping the dead body in a folded sheet that is saturated with either of these salts. The Proto-chhride and the Proto-sulphate of Iron.—These are valuable and very cheap agents for aiding in the control of ammoniacal and sul- phuretted effluvia. Being soluble, and very cheap, these salts are capable of varied and convenient applications, separately, or in combiuation with other deodorizing materials. Chlorine and its alkaline compoimds.—^The common preparations of chlorinated soda and chloride of lime act with great efficiency when the carbonic, sulphurated, or ammoniacal gases are brought into contact with them. As their special uses require no explanation in this place, we simply append brief directions for generating chlorine gas where ifc may be required more immediately and copiously than it would be given off by the alkaline chlorides or hypochlorites. I