VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 18 following series to express the average allotment of smallpox to each vear of life in eleven successive quinquennials, up to the age of fifty-five: 3i, if, 131, 45|, 51^, 40, 20,17|, 3f,2i,_ 1. Ml-. Marson's petition, previously quoted, tends to establish the same result.'^ " But few patients," he says, " under ten years of age have been received with smallpox after vaccina- tion. After ten years the number began to increase consider- ably, and the largest admitted are for the decennial period from the age of fifteen to twenty-five; and although pro- gressively diminishing, they continue rather large up to thirty; and from thirty to thirty-five, they are nearly the same as from ten to fifteen ; but, as in the unprotected, at this period of life the mortality is doubled, showing the cause to be probably as much or more depending on age and its concomitants as on other circumstances. In still further advanced life, the rate of mortality will be seen to increase also, as in the unprotected state; but this tendency may be in a considerable degree counteracted, there is but little doubt, by giving more attention than has hitherto generally been given to the perfection of the process of vaccination." Thus, it appears that age exerts a modifying influence upon the protection of vaccination, by which, during certain years of life, it is lessened. Whether it depends upon decadence of that influence, upon original im- perfect vaccination, or upon a greater susceptibility, it needs; not now to inquire ; the fact is suflicient for our present pur- pose. It is not improbable, also, that in addition to the in- fluence of age, a greater susceptibility to the variolous influence may be produced by any marked change in the habits of life of those exposed to it. Recruits and volunteers may in this manner be more endangered than in the pursuit of their or- •dinary vocations. From what has been shown thus far, it is probably estab- lished that vaccination, if carefully ])erformed, exerts a positive protecting influence in favor of those receiving it. That in countries where vaccination is general, the fatality of smallpox iias under its influence declined to some small fraction of that * Blue Book, p. xxx.