21 vii-iilcnco of Mic disease. The i-a(c of mortality is nlways gi-(':il('i- iviiionf>- tliosc wlio remain in the place whore nn epi- dciiiit' lirst l)r(>;iks out, than amoii^- eith(M- those ali'oady sick or those who lire siil)se(|ucntly attacked, and who ai'c I'emovcd to a more saliihrioiis siliiation. Tins remai'k is founded upon the exjx'riciice oCall armies which have been visited Ity the disease. may add that, olher thiuf^s beino,' equal, it is more fatal in onlinary liospilals and barracks than in the better ventilated and less ci'()wd(Ml (ield hospitals. It need scarcely be remarked that a pi-eviously good stale of health is an important liround of a favorable proLi'nosis, and that ill health, exhaustion by fatiu'ue, scanty or innutritions food, or wounds are e(iually iin- favoral)le in their influence. Malarious influences au'cravate the mortality in epidemics of dysentery, both l)y their ]»rcvionsly deliilitatinu- operation, and by their directly coniplicatinu- the graver disease. The special a'round of a favoi-able proo-nosis is simply the oiiiiinal slightness or the regular subsidence of the charac- teristic symptoms. Of unfavorable indications the violence of -the stheinc symptoms, in general, may be mentioned, Imt moi-e particularly, the sudden or rapid decline of these symptoms, wilh a corresponding exhaustion of |)ower. In the uioi'C or less t} phoid cases, whet.her those originally having such a character or ac(|iiiring it in the progress of llio disease, the following may be regarded as indications of danger. A^ery frcipient, fetid stools, i-esemliling the washings of I'aw flesh, or dark and gan- grenous in their odor; the sudden cessation of abdominal pain; repealed vonuting or hiccup, and paralysis of tlie sphincter ani; «uppi'cssion of urine; dysphagia, a dark dry tongue, and aptJiiB of the mouth; coldness of the extrennties, the nose, or ears; pelechiic and vihiccs upon the skin; a dull and leaden counte- nance! and muttering delirium, weakness of the voice, complete aphonia, and paralysis of the lower limbs.