7 usefully employed; it consists of strips of muslin, whose length is about one-third more than the circumference of the limb, laid so as to overlap one another by about one-third, and then brought up so as to surround the part. The chief use of this is to make slight compression, and to retain dressings; it has the advantage that any of its constituent strips, when soiled, may be easily withdrawn, a fresh strip being pinned to one end of the soiled one so as to be put in place at once without disturbing the hmb. Extension is always a matter of more or less importance, and sometimes suflBces of itself to keep a broken limb in comfort. It is easily made with adhesive plaster, a handkerchief, a wisp of straw, or a piece of bandage. Sometimes it is well to recollect that the patient's boot or shoe need not of necessity be taken off in order to apply the extending band. Counter- extension may be made by handkerchiefs or any other convenient means. When the patient must undergo transportation, it is almost always better to fasten the extending and counter-extending bands to fixed points in the litter or bed, or on the floor of the wagon; pegs being driven for this purpose if necessary. There is, however, one case in which continued extension may do harm, if made too powerfully; it is when a considerable loss of the substance of the bone has occurred, so that the fragments need rather to be held together than to be drawn apart. The dressings most suitable in these cases are composed merely of lint or soft old rags wet with cold water, lightly confined in place. If the sur- geon has to send the patient away from his constant oversight, warm-water dressings, covered with oiled silk, or some other impervious material, are likely to be comfortable for a much longer time than cold, which require moistening as evaporation takes place. Ice or ice-cold water has been highly spoken of, particularly by Prof. Esmarch, of Kiel, as a local application in compound fractures as well as in other injuries. A trial of it is recommended. When suppuration is set up, the surgeon must provide some means of soaking up the discharge—and there is nothing better for this purpose than ordinary bran. It was, indeed, proposed by Dr. J. R. Barton to dress compound fractures simply by embedding them and covering them over with bran. A very annoying and disgusting circumstance, which sometimes takes place in compound fractures, is the development of maggots in the wound. This can only be prevented by keeping the part covered so that flies cannot get at it to lay their eggs. The maggots can be destroyed by lye- washes, or by diluted solution of chlorinated soda.