18 MILITARY HYGIKXK AND THERAPEUTICS. the field of battle, each surgeon should be immediately fol-• lowed by an orderly man, bearing a knapsack containing a few of the most indispensable instruments and dressings for immediate use. Previously to an engagement, a certain num- hev of men from each company should be deputed to take charge of such soldiers as may be wounded, and to remove them at once to a place of safety in the rear of the army. For this purpose, litters should be at hand, made of stout canvas, with stretchers, and provided with rings, into which bayonets or poles may be inserted. Ambulance carts should also be brought as near as possible to the scene of the engagement, and the wounded soldiers should be speedily deposited in them, and driven off to the place selected, where they may receive < proper surgical attention. The U. S. Army medical board recommend that the follow- ing schedule of transports for the sick and wounded, and for hospital supplies, be adopted for a state of war with a civilized enemy : " For commands of less than three companies, one two- wheeled transport cart for hospital supplies ; and to each com- pany, one two-wheeled ambulance. " For commands of moi-e than three and less than five com- panies, two two-wheeled transport carts; and to each company, one two-wheeled ambulance. "For a battalion of five companies, one four-wheeled ambu- lance, five two-wheeled ambulances, and two two-wheeled trans- port carts. For each additional company, less than ten, one two-wheeled transport cart. " For a regiment of ten companies, two four-wheeled ambu- lances, ten two-wheeled ambulances, and four two-wheeled transport carts ; and for greater commands in proportion." Also that "horse-litters may be prepared and furnished to posts, whence the}^ may be required for service on ground not admitting the employment of two-wheeled carriages ; said litters to be composed of a canvas bed similar to the pi-esents trctcher, and of two poles, each sixteen feet long, to be made in sections with head and foot i>ieces, constructed to act as stretchers to keep the poles apart." •.