12 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. When soldiers are making forced marches, and moans of rapid transportation are insnfficient, as they usually are on sucli occa- sions, it is better to dispense with tlie use of tents, and to sleep in the open aii', as a more abundant supply of food, clothing, blankets, and other articles which are inore indispensable to the health and comfort of the troops, may thus be transported. Wlien an army is to be encamped during the winter, wooden huts are to be preferred to tents, as affording better protection to their inmates. In the construction of these huts, it is very important to make ample provision for efficient ventilation, and to avoid over-crowding. There should be openings for ventilation at the ends, sides, and ridge of each hut They should also have projecting eaves—boards to protect the sides from the heat of the sun, and to prevent the entrance of rain or snow througli the openings which are left for ventilation. They shouhl be whitewashed v^ith lime within and without. Care should be taken to prevent accumulations of water about tents or huts. The ground should be sloping, and, whenever it is necessarv, trenches should be dns: to carrv O'S the water. When an encampment is to remain long in one place, and the ground is tenacious of moisture, the streets between the tents or huts should be paved. III. The Disposition of Excrements and Offal. Pits should be dug on the leeward side of the camp, and or- dinarily at a distance of not less than two hundred yards. They should be at least four feet in depth, and the bottom should be covered with charcoal. Such offal as cannot be consumed by fire should be thrown into the pits each day. and then covered with charcoal and a few inches of earth. When the matter reaches within two feet of the surface, cover with charcoal, and till up with earth a little above the level of the adjacent surface. No pit should be dug for such purposes near any source from which water is supplied to the camp. Dead animals and oflfensive offal should be buried imuiediatelv, at such a depth that nt least throe feet should intervene Ix-