17 During the intermission, sulphate of quinine should be given in appropriate closes. To this, all other medication is secondary. With it, properly applied, all other medicines may be useless. The febrifuge may be given by administering two or three grains every two hours, commencing after the subsidence of the diaphoresis, and continuing the dose until cinchonism be produced, or the interval be passed in safety. Should the patient have had several paroxysms, at uniform and well marked times, it answers equally well to give a full dose—say ten grains—two hours before the time at which the first symptoms were felt. Idiosyncrasy must be kept in view, a much smaller amount of the salt being requisite to produce cinchonism in some cases than in others. Occasionally, the remedy cannot be borne, from some peculiarity of constitution. Thus, in some women it gives rise to menorrhagia or to abortion; in males, to gastric trouble or delirium. There is no contra-indication to its use, from any intercurrent inflammation that may exist. On the contrary, it is urgently demanded in pneumonia characterized by periodicity, as we often see it in malarious countries. If the sulphate of quinine should not prevent a subsequent paroxysm, it will render it milder, and will soon check the dis- ease entirely. Its use should be continued for at least two days beyond that on which the patieiit was last free from fever. On the seventh, fourteenth, and twenty-first days, counting from the last attack, the patient should take ten grains of quinine, two hours or three before the time of day at which his last chill took place ; or, commencing two days in anticipation, he should take each day as much as half a scruple. It is desirable, in all cases, to give the remedy in solution or suspended in water, when practicable. If administered m the form of pills, these should be recently made. Where the stomach cannot tolerate the febrifuge, we may use it by the rectum, taking care to increase the dose one half. 2-