18 VENEREAL DISEASES. after improvement continued for a time, tlie appetite begins to flag, and the patient complains of malaise and mental depres- sion, the administration of mercurials should be suspended, and afterwards resumed, if necessary to comi)lete the cure. 15. The mode of using mercury which is the least likely to produce any of the above unpleasant symptoms is by inunc- tion ; and in very many cases this method will be found su- perior to all others. Its advantages are that it rai-ely salivates ; that it leaves the intestinal canal undisturbed, and does not im- pair the appetite ; and hence that it may be used in cases of general debility and of extreme susceptibility to the morbid action of the mineral, when it is of the first importance to sus- tain the vital powers by a nourishing diet and the adminit^tra- tion of tonics, without interference. About a drachm of the ointment should be rubbed into the axilliB and upon the inner surfaces of the thighs alternately every night, and the residue removed with warm water and soap the following morning. 16. The treatment of syphilis should invariably be conduct- ed in a hospital. The dangers to be apprehended from expo- sure and hardship while pursuing a mercurial course, are too great to admit of this treatment being undertaken in camp. 17. Little need be said with regard to the use of iodide of potassium, except that this salt should enter largely into the treatment of the latter forms of syphilis, as syphilitic tubercles, gummy tumors, deep ulcerations of the fauces and larynx, and the aftections of the bones and periosteum ; but although, in some cases, it may constitute the only remedy specially directed against the diathesis, which is admissible for a time, yet in all, mercurials should be sooner or later employed. 18. Treatment should be continued until all syphilitic symp- toms have disappeared, graduating its severity according to the effect produced and the general condition of the patient; and even after the last manifestation of the diathesis has passed away, experience teaches that treatment must be still further prolonged if the patient would secure immunity for the future. 19. The limits of this essay do not permit of reference to the special treatment adaj)ted to the various sypliilitic lesions. It is desirable, however, to call attention to the importance, in