11 If used on tlio field before swelling of tlic linil) lias oceuiTcd, it would be well to apply it iu the form of a easinii;, leaving the wound and a poi-tion of the antei'ior surface of the liiid) ex- posed, as in fractures of the leg. It would be necessary to make the splint extend from the pelvis to the heel, in order to hold the limb firndy. It may be a])])lied in two pieces, one extending from the foot to the knee, as in fractures of the leg, and the other slightly overlapping the first, from the knee to the pelvis. Over these successively a roller should l)e ap- plied, and extension kept up until the casing has become hard. The roller should then be removed, and strips of bandage tied around the spliid'. at several jdaces. Cold water dressings may now be appled to the exposed wounds. If the patient has remained in a hospital until the swelling has hegun to suhside, and is then to he removed, it might be well to !vp})ly it in the following manner: Splints about six inches wide, and long enough to extend from the pelvis to the heel, made of two thicknesses of Canton flannel, satui'ated in the mixture of plaster of Paris and water, are to 1)0 laid along the anterior and posterior surfaces, or on the sides of the find), and four or five transverse l)ands of the ^ame materi;d passed around the lind) at different places, and the whole applied snugly to the limb by means of a roller. After the })laster "sets" the roller should he removed and reapplied or dis- pensed with, according to the judgment of the surgeon. The difficulty in fvpplying such large dressings is, that some portion of the s])lint is liable to solidify before the whole is pi'operly ap})lied. It may therefore be necessary to delay the "setting" by the addition of a small quantity of mucilage or carpenters' glue, or by adding some fresh boiled starch to the water before mixing in the plaster. I would state that I do not consider this dressing at all a])- plicable to the treatment of fractures of the thigh bone, but reconnnend its use only as a means of transporting patients with this injury. The treatment by extension, as recom- mended by Dr. Gurdon Buck, of this city, is one of the best, and certainly one of the simplest methods for treating any