15 portion, and the cicatrix the point of support. Some attrilnite this tendency to retraction of the lieel to the action of the feebly antagonized extensors of the foot, and others to the removal of one lialf of the arch of the foot. Whatever may be the explanation, it is certain that surgeons have constantly met with tliis position of the stump, and'endeavor to remedy it. • Within three years of its introduction. Petit divided the tendo Achillis to relieve the defect, and this operation has often been repeated since. Reports unfavorable to the operation have frequently been made by Surgical Authorities. In 1815 Villermd reported a score of cases in which the patients could walk well only from live months to two years after the operation. Bouvier recently read a paper before the Society of Surgeiy, Paris, in which he condemned Cliopart's operation in strong terms. According to him, bad results almost invariably follow in time; these patients fill the hospitals of incurables ; section of the tendon is only a temporary expedient, and the difficulty returns on its reunion; he therefoi'e advised its rejection. In reply to this communication, Chassaignac declared the amputation of Chopart to be an excellent operation, and referred to cases in which the patients walked well without division of the tendon, to others where the division of the tendon relieved the difficulty, and finally to some wdio walked freely upon the face of the stump itself. He thought the operation shunld not be rejected, but be perfected, since it was very safe; the division of the tendo Achillis is now very frequently practised, either immediately after the operation, or when the heel has been elevated and the cicatrix has become the most depending portion. The opinions of the following w^ell known authorities may be added :—Blandin asserts that lie has met with retraction of the stump but once in eleven amputations. Velpeau did not meet with retraction in five cases, and regards it as an exceptional occurrence. Nelaton approves the operation, and thinks retrac-