PNEUMONIA. 8 dition to this complication, an entire Inng is involved. A de- gree of pleurisy exceeding that genei-ally co-existing with pneumonia, and attended by considerable effusion (which is rare), accounts for the danger in some cases. It may l)e re- marked here, that the coexisting pleurisy is the source of acute pain in pneumonia. Pneumonia, without pleurisy, is attended with little or no pain. Intermitting fever and pneumonia may be associated—each affection serving to mask, to a greater or less extent, the other. This complication is attended with great danger, and calls for prompt and efficient measures of treat- ment addressed to the intermitting fever. In the intemperate, delirium tremens is apt to become developed, and j)rove a serious complication, claiming efficient treatment. Choisemia, or jaundice, is occasionally an incidental event in pneumonia. It does not, however, denote an important hepatic complica- tion, and does not call for active remedies designed to act upon the liver. The propriety of recognizing " bilious pneumonia" as a variety of the disease, may fairly be questioned. 4. Pneumonia occurs as a complication, or secondary affec- tion, in the course of other diseases. Its occurrence in rubeola is not unfrequent. It is apt to occur in the continued fevers, typhus and typhoid. It adds much to the danger in these dis- eases. An important distinction is involved in typhus or ty- phoid fever, complicated with pneumonia, as compared with the so-called typhoid pneumonia. In the one case, the primary disease is the continued fever, the pneumonia being developed secondarily; in the other case, the pneumonia is the primary disease, certain symptoms becoming developed which denote what is commonly known as the typhoid condition. 5. The general and local symptoms accompanying pneumo- nia, when primary and uncomplicated, differ widely in differ- ent cases, and in these differences have originated certain va- rieties of the disease generally recognized by authors. Wlien accompanied by high febrile movement—a full, hard pulse, and a hot skin—it has been called sthenic and frank pneumonia. Examples of this variety are ofteiiest seen in young, robust sub- jects, residing in healthy rural situations ivheu, on the other hand, the phenomena belonging to symptomatic fever are not