6 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. through the lungs, and the other wounded in the thigh by a frag- ment of shell. He who was shot through the lungs still survives to reveal the horrors of the ensuing night, and relate the story of the tragic death of his brother, who was wounded in the thigh, by re- peated hemorrhages from the femoral artery, which the two togeth- er were unable to control. When the survivor recounted to me the experience of that fatal night, and told me how his brother bled and fainted, and rallied, and bled, and fainted and rallied again, his bosom overflowed with grief, and his eyes became suf- fused with tears. But his bitterest sorrow was because he knew that, with the proper means, he might have arrested the hem- orrhage, and thus given his brother a chance for his life. Such instances as these are not isolated, but are continu- ally occurring. In another case which came to my knowledge, the inside of the arm was torn away by a shell, and the man died during the following night from loss of blood while l3Mng on the field of battle. Even as this paper is being prepared, the second officer of one of our vessels of war has fallen a victim to hemor- rhage from the loss of a leg below the knee by a cannon shot, which hemorrhage occurred while removing him from the deck to the cabin of the vessel. Nor does there seem to be anything wonderful in this, when we remember that the whole circuit of the circulation is performed in but a few minutes. Of the different methods of arresting hemorrhage which have had their place in history, such as the use of hjBmostatics, charms and liquids that would decompose the blood, none of them are worthy of notice when compared with the grand principle of stopping the effusion of blood by mechanical constriction of the artery which supplies that fluid—constriction either in the wound itself or at some part between the wound and the heart. All the anatomical knowledge which is strictly necessary for effecting such compression, may be acquired by both officers and men from the accompanying diagrams, and this knowledge is of such a nature that I think it may be readily understood, and will not be easily forgotten. We must remember that each limb, be it an arm or leg, L"* supplied with blood by one main artery, which pulsates like that of the wrist, and whose pulsation may be felt in the