18 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC men on our return to Fernando Po tliat we had on Vioard when leaving it on the 8th of July." The preservation of their health he attributes to several hygienic precautions, the princijjal of which was " to niy having induced the Europeans to take quinine solution daily, without making any fuss, for its pal- pable necessity."—" Iinpresxioiis of Wcntcrn Africa." By T. J. Eutchinson, Esq., Her Majesty's Consul for the Bight of Biafra. Longman, 1858, p. 229. By enforcing the systematic use of quinine, as a prophylac- tic, upon all the persons in their employment, the i-emarkable result was secured by the Messrs. Laird, wliich is set forth in the following letter from a member of that enterprising firm, whom the writer saw professionally during his recent visit to this country : " 1 Leadenhall Street, Loj,-don, "2Gth July, 1861. "DearSir: Referring to my interview with yoti last month, and to the effects of quinine in African fever, I now inclose memoranda on that subject.* My firm of Laird, Fletcher & Co., Liverpool, are the managing agents for a line of steamers to the coast of Africa, carrying H. M. mails once a month from Liverpool, to thirteen different ports on the coast of Africa, lying between the Island of Madeira and Fernando Po. These vessels run about 10,000 miles out and home in ten weeks, and since the establishment of the line, about seven years ago, no European lias lost his life in connection with the scrrice, except from causes which might have produced his death in any other part of the world. " During the past five years m_v late brother (Macgregor Laird) established steam communication with the interior of Africa, by means of the river Niger and its tributaries, making several ascents of the river during the rainy season when its waters were high. None of the Europeans connected with these expeditions have died from fever. " I have this month sent an exploring steamer up the same river to return in September, and do not anticipate any loss of life. * « * " I am, very truly yours, "MTkL LAIRD. " Dr. Van Buren, &c., &c." Sir J. Emerson Tennant (Ceylon, vol. 1, p. 76) gives his ex- ])crience as follows: " In traversing districts suspected of malaria, experience has dictated certain ■()r(^caulions, wliich, with ordinary iirudcnce and firmness, serve to neutralize th(! risk—retiring puuctually at sunset, generous diet, moderate stimulants, and the daily use of (juinine both before and after exposure. These » * * * * This memorandum contained a printed abstract of experience on the pre- ventive use of quinine (from which the preceding quotations were extracted), prej)arcd for the guidance of persons in the employ of the company.