8 VENEREAL DISEASES. 10. Acnte prostatitis is to be treated at its commencement by jibsohite rest, cups followed by poultices to the perineum, warm baths, and laxatives or enemata. The bladder should be evacuated, when necessary, with the catheter. If suppu- ration ensues, the abscess should be opened at an early period in whichever direction it tends to point, either with a knife through the rectum, or with the point of a catheter through the urethra. 11. Gonorrhoea! cystitis is commonly limited to the neck of the bladder. Its symptoms are an urgent and frequent desire to empty the bladder; sharp pain attending the flow of the last drops of urine; the admixture of pus or blood with this fluid ; tenderness of the hypogastric region; pain radiating to the groins, perineum, anus, and along the course of the urethra. There is usually less febrile excitement than in acute prosta- titis. 12. Gonorrhosal cystitis is to be treated by rest, warm baths, cups, and poultices to the hypogastrium, and, internally, by saline laxatives, the carbonates of soda and potassa, the acetate or chlorate of potassa, liquor potassse, mucilage, flaxseed tea, and copaiva 13. Gonorrhoea! epididymitis (swelled testicle) is best treated by the horizontal posture; support of the scrotal organs; an emetico-cathartic, as a solution of Epsom salts and tartarized antimony, given in sufficient doses to act freely upon the bowels and maintain slight nausea; the application of leeches or cups just below the external abdominal ring, or bleeding from the scrotal veins (the patient in a standing posture, and the scro- tum compressed at its neck, either with the hand or a fillet, and bathed with hot water until its veins are well distended); and hot poultices, either of flaxseed or toliaceo leaves, to the aftected part. Evacuate any collection of fluid in the tunica vaginalis; and, even in the absence of any marked degree of hydroccje. Velpeau's treatment by means of multiple puucture"s Avitli a lancet is worthy of a trial. When the acute symptoms have subsided, em])loy a more tonic regimen, and strap the affected testicle. Mild urethi-al injections are not contra-indicated by tiie occurrence of swelled testicle.