14 within seventy-two liours of the initial chiU, When the pro- gress is more favorable, a certain amount of febrile I'eaction occurs, very disproportionate in amount to the chill. The body generally becomes warmer, and a sort of intermission results. Discomfort and epigastric iineasiuess are, however, very prone to remain. On the day following, or on the second day, there may be a repetition of these phenomena—in cases terminating favorably and sjiontaneously—the algid phenomena becoming less marked, and the pyrexia more developed, until the parox- ysms assume the character of ordinary intermittent. Unfortunately, this is not the usual history. With each accession of congestive chill, the lesions of innervation and the consequences of local hypergemia become more serious, until the third paroxysm, beyond which life is not apt to be protracted, if the disease have been allowed to run an unob- structed course. Inasmuch as the disease is so often amenable to therapeutical influence, and in view of the great danger to the patient that arises fi'om want of immediate treatment, the diagnosis of con- gestive fever becomes of great importance. Many fatal cases can be traced to want of early recognition of its true nature. We should always suspect its advent, when in paroxysms of the other malarious pyrexias we observe " an ^musualpaleness or lividness of the face y an absence of rigors or a sense of chilliness, while the extremities are really cold / a want of uni- form heat after reaction / a dis])Osition to copious or frequent vomiting or purging, with a sense of unusual xoeightor oppres- sion at the epigastrium,' an extraordinai^ frequency, feeble- ness, or irregularity of the jyz/fo^? / much anxiety of counte- nance, 7'estlessness, or jactitatiooi, or disposition to faintness / considerate delirium or drowsiness / a prolongation of the cold stage, and a less degree of febrile excitement than might have heen anticipated / a contimiance in the ajyyrexia of some mental confusion, sleepiness, faintness, or unusual anxiety, or uneasiness. Any of the above symptoms shoxdd be a sufficient