lit (Uslocatioii, separation of tlie e[ii[»li,ysi.s, etc., and occurring ill civil practice, two only ended in recovery. Siicli is tlic discouraging catalogue of attempts to save the limb by conservative means ; of twelve o[)eratious, only three proved successful. Results derived from so small a number of operations do not authorize a comjDarisou with those of amputations, tlie mortality following which, when performed at the lower third of the thigh for traumatic cause, in military practice, is 50.6 per cent. (Macleod.) It is impossible within the present limits to discuss the conditions which demand excision. The judgment of the surgeon must decide the question in the presence of each individual case. It is only in slight wounds of the joint, that the operation is to be undertaken; when the extent of injury to the bone is such that considerable portions of ft must be removed, excisions is not tlie appropriate operation. If decided upon, it should always be done immediately after the accident; for if suppuration and inflammation once estab- lish themselves, the chances of success for either excision or amputation become very small indeed. Operation.—The simplest and best method of excising the knee-joint is by a circular incision, extending half-way round the limb, on a line Avith the articulating surface of the tibia. It freely exposes the joint, and the dependent situation of its two ends favors the discharge of matter. It also permits the division of the hamstring tendons without any additional punctureor incision, and this is a step always desirable to take in order to prevent the displacement of the leg, which so often happens during the first part of the treat- ment from the contraction of the muscles of the back of the thigh, especially of the biceps muscle inserted into the head of the fibula. The joint being opened, division of the cru- cial ligament permits the head of one bone, by flexing the * limb, to be lifted up and opposed to the other in such a way that its section may be accomplished by tlie saw without endangering the vessels of the popliteal region. A thiu