9 AGAINST MALARIOUS DISEASES. The hio-liest Amei-ican authority on the maferia mcflica, Prof. Geo. B.Wood, M. D., of the Uiiiversity of Pennsylvania, expresses his opinion on tlie subject in the following hmguage : "Upon tiie same principles as those on which periodical dis- eases may be cui-ed, they may also be prevented by the sul- phate of quinia. There is no proi)hylactic measure against tlie miasmatic fevers at all comparable in cfticiency to the use of this medicine. It seems reasonable to supjjose that tlie same impression on the system which })reveiits the i-cturn of the paroxysms will prevent the occurrence of the first. Experience lias establislied the correctness of this inference."* From another cjnarter of our conntry we have the following evidence from a competent and reliable observer. Dr. IT. W. De Sanssure, of Charleston, S. C. : "I think that I have been able to collect a sufficient number of data to render the opinion plausible, if not conclusive, that quinine possesses the power of protecting the white man from attacks of intermittent and remittent fever, or its collatei'als, when exposed for even long periods to malarious influences; and, moreover, that its daily use is in no wise injurious to health, nor does its habitual use render the system insusceptible of its remedial powers." Among other cases, he relates the following in support of his views: " An overseer agreed to take charge of several rice plantations in one of the sickliest regions of rice culture, undertaking to spend the summer months on one of the plantations. lie made no inquiry as to the health of the one chosen as his residence—it was selected from its convenient locality. When warned of the danger of his residing there in summer, he said he would never have the fever. His confidence in his cajiacity to resist malarious disease seemed unlimited. The result fully justified this confidence. He lived ten years or more in that neighborhood, spending every summer on the plantation, varied only by an occasional visit to the healthy pine-land, where his family resided during the summer. visited his rice-fields without hesitation at an)' hour, day or night, that his business required. Ho never had an attack of fever during that time. I saw him after he had been there several years ; a finer specimen of robust health it would have been diflicult to find. * A treatise on Therapeutics and Pharmacology, or Materia Medica, by George H. Wood, M. D., late President of the Ame rican Medical Association ; Professor of Theory and Practice; of Medicine in the University of Pennsyl- vania ; senior physician of the Pennsylvania Hospital; one of the authors of the United States Dis|iensatory, kc, &c. I'hiladelphia, IHUl, Vol. I., p. 200.