20 OOWTINUED EEVEKS. mild cvaciicnts, of diajihorctics, nervous and arterial sedatives or stimnlants, as the case may ref|uire, together witli tlie usual means to mitigate febrile action, constitute the whole of the general plan of treatment. The details must be varied accord- ing to the circumstances which may arise during its progress, so that wliilc the general management of the case may safely be trusted to the faithful and intelligent nurse, it is the prov- ince of the physician to obviate injury to the vital functions, and combat in turn the graver S3Miiptoms as they present. Measures should be early adopted to prevent the spread of the fever by contagion. We have already named the conditions under which this element becomes active. Happily the con- ditions required for its amelioration are those which experieiice has shown to be best for the patient."- Should wards and walls bo necessitated by the rigors of the season, blazing fires and open windows become imperative ; and here, as already suggested, due attention to ventilation, clean- liness, and the non-crowding of patients, will go far to lessen the chances of communication. * The following rales, tlio oljservance of which is eujoiucd by the Govern- ment of the London Fever Hospital, might well be adopted under similar circumstances in Military Hospitals, passim. "I. It is of the iitmost importance to the sick, and their attendants, that there be a constant admission of fresh air into the room, and especially about the patient's Ijed—care being taken to prevent the wind from Idowiug directly on the patient. "II. Attention to cleanliness is indispensable. The linen of the patient yhould be often changed ; and the dirty clothes, &c.. immediately put into fresh cold water, and afterwards w(dl washed. The floor of the room must be cleansed every day with a n\oii, and all discharges front the patient imme- diately removed, and the utensils waslied. "III. Nurses and attendants ought to endeavor to avoid the patient's breath, and the vapor from the discharges. "IV. Visitin-s must not go jioar to the sick, nor remain with them longer than is absolutely necessary ; they should not swallow their spittle, but clear the mouth and nostrils when they leave tlic room. " V. No dependence must bo placed on vinegar, camphor, or other supposed preventives; M-hich, without attei\tion 1o cleanliness and admission of fresh air, are not only useless, but, by tlicir strong smell, render it impossible to perceive when the room is (iiied with bad air or noxious v.apors."