16 MILITARY HYGIENE AND THEKAPEUTICS. tei'wai-ds suffer from Avant, or supply tlieniselves by plunder. With regard to the hard biscuit usually furnished to the soldiers as a part of their diet, M. Scrivo says, that it should be made thinner and more friable, as by its thickness and hardness it irritates and inflames the gums. M. Scrive also says, that when fresh meat cannot be supplied to the army, it should be replaced by preserved meats and soups; and that salt beef sliould, as far as possible, be abandoned as an arti- cle of food for soldiers, especially in long campaigns and in distant regions, as it is very apt to become spoiled. Borden's meat-biscuit may be a valuable article of diet, when fresh meat cannot be obtained. When soldiers have long been confined to the use of salted and smoked provisions, and fresh meat is afterwards liberally supplied to them, they are very apt to be attacked with severe and often fatal dysentery. The precau- tion should therefore be adopted to furnish to the men at first a very limited supply of fresh meat; the quantity may be gradually increased, as they become accustomed to its use. The dysentery, occurring under these circumstances, is stated by Dr. Hewitt, formerly surgeon in the U. S. army, to be most readily cured by purging with sulphate of magnesia.' VI. As a means of preserving the health of soldiers, great care should be taken, as far as military necessities will al- low, to avoid excessive and exhausting labor, and to allow ample time for sleep. There is no doubt that a large part of the UKjrtality among the troops who were engaged in the Crimean war was owing to the perhaps unavoidable violation of these rules. The men were engaged in almost incessant labor, and their sleep was often disturbed, while, at the same time, they were exposed to the heat and cold, rain and snow, with very insiifiicient protection. Whenever it is necessary to have a large amount of labor performed, it is bettei', if prac- ticable, to hire laborers, than to require an excessive amount of work from the soldiers. Under the head of military therapeutics, are to be considered the preparations which are required for the practice of medi- cine and surgery under the peculiar circumstances attending the movements of armies, and the actual treatment of diseases and