8 MILITARY HYGIKNE AND THERAPEUTIC?. ill September, 1855, after 31G days of hard work and figlitiiig in the trendies. A million of sand-bags and 80,000 gabions had been eni])lo_yed. There had been 600,000 diseharges of cannon and mortars. Twenty leagnes of trenches had l)een opened. After the taking of the Malakoff, the French sur- geons had the care of 5,000 wounded joersons, including many of the Russians. The whole number of patients under treat- ment at that time in the French ambulances was 10,520. In one division, three surgeons and one apothecary liad the entire care of 900 patients. The number of the wounded after the battle of the Tchernaia was 2,47'1-; viz., 810 French and 1,664 Russians, coming under the care of the French surgeons. Typhus fever broke out in the French army in December, 1855 ; in that month there were 734 cases. In January there were 1,523 cases. During the two months. 787 cases termi- nated fatally. In February there were 3,402 cases, of which 1,435 were fatal. The disease attacked large numbers of per- sons who had been previously sick with other diseases. Every other disease seemed to be transformed into this terrible scourge. Seventy-five French surgeons in the Crimea were sick with typhus, and thirty-one died of it. Scrive says that " the losses occasioned by the most murderous battles do not equal one-fourth of the total losses to which an army is ordi- narily subjected." Scrive, in reporting the sanitary condition of the army in February, 1856, makes the following remarks: "The regiments were not all attacked in the same degree. The pro])ortion of the sick bears a close relation to the energy of the exciting causes. Thus, but few patients were found in the 17th battalion of chasseurs—-10 out of 450 men. This battalion is comfortably quartered in bari-acks of good elevation ; the grcmnd is carefully paved ; each soldier has a hcd raised thirty centimetres, or about twelve inches, from the ground. Per- fect cleaidiness is observed throughout. The sea of mud (jf the adjoining streets is replaced by a stone i)avement. Great care is taken as to diet, and vegetables are never wanting. The chasseurs are a chosen body of robust and intelliffcnt men, and tlie site of their cncMniiimciit is a very healthy one. The b.'ith regiment is tlie worst tivated oi'all; it counts about 200 jia-