10 was performed through the leg. The mortality after this ope- ration, always considerable, varies with circumstances. In the Parisian hospitals it lias been estimated as high as fifty per cent., even when performed for chronic disease, a condition most favorable to success. American hospitals give thirty- seven per cent., and English hospitals nearly twenty per cent. ; a fair average of the mortality of this operation, may be put at twenty-five per cent. In 1850, Mr. Syme stated {Monthly Jour.) that he had performed amputation at the ankle between thirty and forty times, with the loss of but a single patient, and in this case the unfortunate result was not due to the opera- tion. More recently he remarks, " the operation itself I believe to be as free from risk as the removal of a finger or toe." There are now two principal methods of amputation at the ankle joint known respectively by their projectors as Syme's and Pirogofi"'s operations. The relative merits of these opera- tions will be more easily appreciated by describing the methods pursued and grouping the facts which experience has thus far accumulated. Syme's Method. Ojyeratioti.—The foot being placed at a right angle to the leg, a line drawn from the centre of one malleolus to tliat of the other, directly across the sole of the foot, will show the proper extent of the posterior flap. The knife should be entered close up to the fibular malleolus, and carried to a point on the same level of the opposite side, which will be a little below the tibial malleolus. The anterior incision should join the two points just mentioned at an angle of 45* to the sole of the foot and along the axis of the leg. In dissecting the posterior flap, the ope- rator should place the fingers of his left hand upon the heel, while the thumb rests upon the edge of the integuments, and then cut between the nail of the thumb and tuberosity of the OS calcis, so as to avoid lacerating the soft parts, which he, at the same time, gently but steadily presses back until he exposes and divides the tendo Achillis. The foot should be disarticu-