8 and even five inches of the bone have been removed without detriment to the result. Sometimes, on the other hand, only a portion of the articulating surface of the humerus seems to need removal; but the subsequent mobility of the arm will be less restricted if the whole head of the bone is taken away. Unfortunate results do not, however, as a rule, follow partial excision in this, as in other joints. As'gun-shot wounds are of so variable a character, injuries to the coracoid and acromion processes, to_the clavicle, and more rarely to the body and neck of the scapula, will occa- sionally be found complicating that of the humerus. Although extensive fracture of the scapula destroys the probability of success, fragments of it have been removed, and recovery has ensued, notwithstanding the profuse suppuration and protracted treatment following. A patient with a shattered head of the humerus may re- cover without an operation, but, to say nothing of greater safety, more rapid and better results follow excision than the gradual exfoliation of fragments. The time required, and the condition left by the slow processes which accompany the latter course, are more unlikely to .give a useful arm. As the operation can be performed with the same, if not more success, after the establishment of suppuration, a certain amount of delay is admissible in doubtful cases. Statistics show that secondary excisions of this joint are more suc- cessful than primary, in the proportion of 17 to 10. This is explained b}^ the fact, that it is the less grave cases which are reserved for expectant treatment, and because, by the lapse of time, and after the establishment of suppuration, the exact extent of the injury can be determmed m a manner not always easy at the time of its occurrence. In the one case all is excised which should be; in the other, the removal may fall short of its proper limits. Operation.—Formal incisions will often be modified by wounds of the soft parts. When this is not the case, a straight incision, commencing as liigh as the acromion and just ex- ternal to the coracoid process, the point of the knife pene-