19 TYPHUS FEVEPw skin is often excessive. It is peculiar, dry, burning, and pun- gent to the feel. On the fifth or sixtli day tlic characteristic rash appears. The dusky face and fuliginous hue of the body is a common accompaniment ; it is noticed early, and deepens as the fever advances. Conjoined with this, and bearing an appreciable relation to its intensity, is the mai'kcd and pun- gent emanation from the general surface, Avhich has been previously described as mousey, mawkisli, ammoniacal, &c., furnishing to another sense a testimony of the specific nature of the malady. A muscular unsteadiness is early apparent— a tremulousness of the hands, and of the tongue, the culmina- tion of which may be spasms and convulsions. Delirium, in greater or less degree, is an almost constant concomitant. It is not unfrequently accompanied by the wakefulness and ex- citement and busy activity of delirium tremens, which it closely resembles. More often, the early somnolence is attended by muttering and talking, a state which generally passes into stupor or coma, the patient lying sujjine and utterly uncon- scious. The respiration is peculiarly alfected ; it becomes quick and labored—it is impeded and interrupted, amounting sometimes in frequency to forty, liftyj 'T-'it^ even sixty in the minute. And yet there is rcnuxrkable freedom from any im- portant structural disease. The diagnostic marks of cerebral inflammation are wanting. Auscultation and percussion fail to detect any abnormal signs in the chest. The abdomen is natural in appearance, and free from any considerable tender- ness or tympanites. There is no diarrho3a. The bowels may be a little relaxed, but the stools arc regular and easy in tlieir action. More often there is a tendency to constipation through- out. Neither the liver, the kidneys, the stomach, nor the in- testines give evidence of any especial organic disturbance, Treatmi'NT.—In f/mcral, pure air, cleanliness, quiet, and good nursing are all important requisites. Bland nourishing food and drinks, given frequently and in small quantities, are in most cases demanded tliroughout tlic wliole course of the disease. Conjoined with such hygienic measures, the use ot