PNEUMONIA. 19 whole course of the disease, is Ijased on coiisi<lerable experience. And tliis should enter into the treatment in proportion as the symptoms denote a tendency to asthenia. Animal essences, or soups, milk, and i'arinaceous substances should be combined to tbrin the diet, thns securing a pi'oper variety of alimentary principles. The desires and taste of the patient may generally be trusted. The juice of fruits- ma_y be allowed. It may be considered as superfluous to say that, when the suppoi'ting treatment is indicated, measures which conflict with this treatment are contra-indicated. But custom has so long sanctioned the abuse of purgatives, that it may not be amiss to caution against their injudicious use in pneumonia. The use- fulness of saline remedies of this class, in the first stage, lias been alluded to. They are useful as means of depletion with- out spoliation. After the first stage, purgatives are only indi- cated when inconvenience arises from accumulation in the bowels; and the mildest measures sufiice. Active cathartics depress the vital powers, and, in this way, do harm in propor- tion as supporting measures are called for. The use of opium may be considered in connection with the supporting treatment. Opium may be given, as already stated, to relieve acute pain in the first stage. It may be given, also, to allay cough. But, aside from these objects, clinical obser- vation shows this to be a most valuable remedy in the treatment of pneumonia. Given in full doses, in certain cases, it tran- quillizes the system in a remarkable manner. The frequency of the pulse and respirations is sometimes notably diminished. Refreshing sleep is obtained. It appeal s to render the system tolerant of the local aflection ; if, indeed, it does not, in some instances, induce a more speedy commencement of resolution than would otherwise have occurred. These statements are based on the employment of this remedy in a large number of recorded cases.* An objection to the use of opium, on the score of interference with expectoration, is already disposed of. Expectoi'ation is of no importance with reference to the resolution of pneumonia. That opium does not retard the ab- sori)tion of the exudation, is shown by the rapid disappearance * Sec Analysis of Ciises, in Am. Jour, of Med. Sciences, No. for Jan., 18G1.