13 enforced, as •will insure entire security asiainst its diffusion Personni ifoia- T)()th tlie nurses and the infected clothing' of such })er- quiu-auune. sons should be treated as in quarantine. Purification of persons and places exposed to the infection should be effected by means of Avashino-, and thorouo;li ventilation, while all II- 1 -1 , -,. . p -, , , . Infected per- clothin"'and i)orous materials must be chsnilected bvwashinG;, nn.i i.iiu-es 1 -T 1 . . •11 • '• 1 how tobe ireiilcd. at boiling heat, rt practicable, otherwise by sufhciently pro- tracted ventilation—which, in the case of articles contain- cioUiinR and inated by small-pox, should be aided by fumigations of chloi'ine or bromine. And in case neither a hio-li heat nor strong fumigations of the latter chemicals can be applied specini disin- to such contaminated materials, let them be destroyed by "g'^"'^' fire. Eoiling heat, or high steam, is the surest disinfect- ant of small-pox and all other contagions. Even a tem- perature of 140° F. effectually neutralizes the virus of vac- cinia. The transi)( )rtation of ijatientshavinii' small-pox or measles Ambulances, ^ i tents, and equi- shoiild in all cases, when practical)le, be provided in vehicles j^'j^^'^' exclusively employed for the piir]K)se ; and, in any case Avhere an ambulance or saddle has been used for conveying a small-pox patient or his clothing, it should be placed in cpiarantine mitil properly purified. Tents and erpiipage that have been immediately exjiosed to the cxanthematous infections, should be washed Avith boibng water. It should be borne in mind that a low temperature tends ,i„rs"nlt d'e<n"oy rather to increase than diminish the activity of the exan- "f"cuon's.'' theinatoas poisons and most other febrile contagions. It is only upon the yellow fever miasma, and other infections which depend upon warmth and moisture, that cold acts as a disinfecting agency. Second Class or Ixfectioxs.—Typhus fever, hospital JZ^lZ''"'ll' gangrene, and erysipelas, are here grouped for consideration "j^,^'^of "'^ second as inl'et'tious maladies, and sources of specific poisons that obey similar laws of generation and of prevention, and Avhich also depend upon a given class of hygienic agencies for the mitigation of their activity. No armv surii-eon can be uninformed respectinc; the in- The diingemig ' ^ . . 1 o niilure of these in- fectious nature, and the peculiar activity and perils of this