11 retained. It follows, therefore, that in an examination of a gun-shot fracture, either in this or any other joint, very little assistance can he derived from the common piohc. The only reliahle probe is the surgeon's forefinger, and to admit this the wound of the soft parts may at any time be enlarged. In extensive injuries, the state of the soft }iarts, the con- dition of the large blood-vessels, and the probable extent of fissures must decide the question of operjition. "As regards the results, it is of no consequence whether the excision is performed in the first forty-eight hours, or after the full de- velopment of supperation." (Stromeyer.) In no joint are the propriety and advantages of excision so conclusively es- tablished as in this. Operation.—The elbow is excised by a straight incision along the inner border of the olecranon, extending three inches above and three below that process. If the operation is performed after the parts have become stitfened by inflam- mation or serious infiltration, a second short incision at right angles to the first may be carried outwards over the end of the olecranon towards the external condyle. The entire thick- ness of soft parts should be raised on either side from the surffice of the bone, special care being taken that the ulnar nerve, where it lies in the groove at the inner side of the olecranon, is not interfered with. This can only be insured by keeping the knife constantly in contact with the hone. The soft parts in which it reposes, or the nerve itself, if it is released from its sheath and exposed, should be liekl to one side ; division of the lateral ligaments and conjoined tendons will then freely open the interior of the joint. The ad- vantao-e of the straie:ht incision is, that the connection of the triceps tendon by its edges with the investing aponeurosis of the arm and forearm remaining intact, an attachment for the muscle is thus efl:ected, which diminishes to a certain extent the loss of power following the unavoidable division of the tendon at its'insertion into the olecrapon. It is true that a transverse incision facilitates the operation, but it is fiir better to secure this temporary convenience by extending the longi-