MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 20 as to allow the air to pass freely tlirougli in all directions. The patients should not be placed in stories below the level of the ground or but slightly raised above it, as experience has shown that the upper stories are much more salubrious. The beds should be raised from the floor, being placed on iron bed- steads whenever they can be obtained. No two bedsteads should be in contact, and none should touch the walls of the room. No unnecessary articles should be in the wards, as they occupy valuable space, and absorb noxious vapors. Care should be taken that the windows do not open upon any re- ceptacles of foul air. Besides the principal hospital buildings, there should be small detached houses reserved for special cases. Near the entrance of the towai some building or tents should be selected as receiving hospital, Avhere the wounded should be brought and properly cleansed, wounds dressed, and suitable hospital clothes provided ; and then they should be forwarded to the permanent hospital. Great attention should be paid to privies and drains connected with the hospital, to prevent them from contaminating the atmosphere. Patients who are able to rise from their beds should eat in adjoining rooms or tents. The wards of the hospitals should be divided into three classes, viz., surgical, medical, and convalescent. To every division of one hundred beds, there should be at least one ward superin- tendent and six orderly-men. When the hospital is prepared, the compound fractures should be placed in the most accessi- ble wards, and injuries of the same character should be placed in the same wards. When wine or spirits are directed, the surgeon should sec them administered. To preserve the pu- rity of the air, the wards should be frequently whitewaslied with lime. The adjacent grounds should be well drained, and the sewers should be frequently flushed. Excretions should be as soon as possible removed from the wards. The tempo- rary hospitals attached to camps are subject to terrible mis- haps. I>azancourt speaks in the following terms of the effects of a hurricane upon the frail structure used as a military hos- pital by the French army in the Crimea: "The ambulance barracks are shattered by the fury of the wind ; and whilst their roofs, carried up in the air, whirl around and disappear,