27 is sonielinii's uruciilly dcinamlod in slliciiic dysonlorv. Finnlly, tli(» pcriodicul I'onii ol' dysciitci'V ciiils (oi- ;i. scpai-nlc and s|)('cilic remedy. Xor is llioi'eaiiy nicdicinr' which can wilh proprifdy be calh'd aiili-dysciiloidc ; for althouLih luorc lhaii oiio has Ixmmi Taiiiit<'(l as such, and 1ms even seemed in (;erl,a,iii epiihanics io be enih»\vcd wilh specific ]iowci's, a unifc exl,en(h'd cxpci-ifuce has dissipated the l)clief, and reduced it to a lev(d withiiMnn- remedies whose vii-lues arc apparent, only in particular slaL^en or types of the disease. Trcdfmriif o>' J/ild Dysentery.—The first step sliould he to dii'ect tlie patient to keep his heil. for I'est is indispensaJ»h» to tlie cure of every form of dysentery ; and the next to i'es!i-ict his food to the mihh'sl, farinaceous arti(d(!s. and especially lo idee water made tlnn. and strtMiii'thened liy the additio;! <d' from one- fourth lo onedialf of its (pianlil\- (d" ndllc. The diduks should consist of thin idee oi' barley waler, uaim water, etc. In many coses, this reuimen, without any medicine wdiatevei-, Avill he siilfi(dent for the cui-e. It mav, however, be expedited hy the adnninslration ol' from half an ounce to an ounce of casloi- oil, or from |i>n to twenty gi'ains of calomel, followed in six or ei.uiit hours liy Ihe castor oil. Eithei- dose imiy be i-epcatcil on the thii'd day. or the calomel nmy be pi'CscrilK^d upon the first and the oil upon the third day, and should be Liiven in the inoi-niiiL;-, so that its op(M'a,tion may be ended by evenim;-. wdiea a small opiate drau,t>-lit, of from livi^ lo lifleen drops of hiuda- iium or of wim^ of opium, or IVom li\ (> to len u'rains id' Dovei-'s powder, may lie administei'cd lopi'omdie rallier tiian lo enforce sle(-p, lo allay lenesmns, and modei-ale the fre(iiiency of the stools. ]f llie-^e measui-es are adopted from th(> first appearsince of the dvsenlei-ii'. sympt(mis, Ihey will .u'cnerally arrest Ihe alUudc in from three! lo six dsiys ; but if they are not employed until