34 VACCINATION IN ARMIES. * Boston Medical and Surgicnl .Tournal. April, 1860. four of the usual capillary glass vaccine tubes, and sealed them hermetically—using for this purpose but about one-half the two drops. From one of these tubes I have since vaccinated three children successfully, using less than one-half its contents. The other three tubes I shall keep for some time, to see if age will in any degree impair its quality. I see no reason M'hy, when thus dissolved in glycerine, and hermetically sealed in glass tiibes, it should not retain its virtue for a great length of time. The antiseptic qualities of tlie glycerine^ I should judge, would render it less liable to change than is the pure vaccine lymph when ti-eated in the same way, which we know can thus be kept for many months. If I am correct in the foregoing conclusions,.,which a little time will determine, the preservation of vaccine virus, and the distribution of it, when desired, to distant sections of the conn- try, will become an exceedingly simple and easy affair. A single scab, prepared as above, would be sufficient to fill some fifty tubes, each of which would be capable of vaccinating ten or more persons. I would suggest that the glass tubes, for this purpose, should be drawn with a little larger bore than those in use f )r the pure lymph, both for the convenience of filling, and tliat the solution may be used in a little more concentrated form than is practi- cable with the very fine capillary tubes, which answer well for the latter purpose. HOW TO VACCINATE. By Henry A. M^vbtdi, M. D., of Roxbury, Mass.* "Make, with tne point of a clean lancet, some groups of transverse scratciies, or, rather, very delicate incisions. The number of these will vary according as few or many vesicles are considered necessary. The length of the individual scratches will determine, of course, the size of the resulting vesicle, and, to some degree, the soreness of the arm. " The incisions should be so slight as barely to result in the