18 performed his operation sixteen years ago, being the tiiird person on wliom the operation was performed, who stated that he had walked thirty miles in a day without inconvenience from his stump. We may add the following fact, wliich came under our own observation :—A man presented himself at Bellevue Hospital during the last winter, who had undergone amputation at the ankle joint, by Dk. Carnochan, a year or more previously. He was a book-peddler by occupation, and stated that he not unfrequently walked eight miles daily, with- out fatigue or inconvenience from his mutilated limb. He had but a very slight limp. He wore a short shoe, with the sole raised sufficiently to compensate for the loss of the foot. We may add that recent statistics show that but a single case is authenticated of a stump so sensitive as not to admit the weight of the body. Pirogqfs Ojperation.—Pirogoff claims for his method of amputation the following advantages :—1. The tendo Achillis is not divided, and we avoid all the disadvantages connected with its injury. 2. It also follows that the base of the posterior flap is not thinner than its apex, while the skin on the base of the flap remains ununited with the fibrous sheath of the tendo Achillis. 3. The posterior flap is not cap-like, as in Syme's method, and its form is therefore less favorable to a collection of pus. 4. The leg after this operation appears an inch and a half (sometimes even more) longer than in the three other ope- rations (Syme, Baudens, Roux), because the remnant of the os calcis left in the flap, as it unites with the inferior extremities of the tibia and fibula, lengthens them by an inch and a half, and, 5. Serves the patient as the point of support. Mb. Croft furnishes the following account of the six cases occurring at the Dreadnought:—" Six times the operation iuis been performed, and in four instances with most perfect success; but in the two remaining death removed the subjects of ope- ration before cure was completed—in the first instance by gra- nular disease of the kidneys, and in the second instance by