26 Avill be attained in personal health and comfort, no less than in respect of protection against endeniial and infec- tious agencies, by tl^e habit of daily ablution of the entire cioneai ar-body. Watcr-closets and spouts must be amply sufficient rangeme . ^^^^ |)roperly arranged, even for short voyages, or the most veniiiatioD. offcnsivc souvces of disease will be sure to exist. Ventila- tion : A transport should have means of effective through and through ventilation, from the bows to the stern, and from the upper deck to the keelson, and this is provided in some measure by the ship's hatches, gangways, and counter- ports ; but the special improvements or works for ventila- tion in ordinary transports, consist mainly in greatly in- Theie mu3i. be ci'^asiug the area and the places of egress for foul air : e^essfoTfouiair.' ^liis is bcst effected, temporarily, by increasing the area of the windows and air-shafts at the stern, and, if ad- missible, elsewhere. The ingress of fresh air is easily provided for after establishing the channels and amount of Wind-sails, how outlct. Wiud-sails for ingress can be multiplied indefinitely, extemporized. i t-t-i tt and when no properly made Avmd-sails are at hand, any sailor can rig studding-sails for the same purpose. Each Eacli deck to deck must have its independent channels for supply of fresh dent channeiTof air, and for the egress of foul air. The lower or closed decks for air : the area of steamship transports, shoidd have shafts or areas of out- less^'tmn 4 sqTt. let for foul ail', at least equal to four squat'e feet for every 0 pas-eu„eis. men. The total area of the fresli-air inlets should con- siderably exceed that of the foul-air outlets ; and upon the proper adjustment of the outlets and the intelligent manage- ment of the inlets depends the problem of extemporized means of ventilation in ships. The estimate given above, will ply of Tir'l how provide 1,000 cubic feet of fresh air per hour to each man, ei ima e . ^ vcssel Sailing five knots an hour ; but, if no special out- lets are provided, even twice the number of wind-sails, all injecting, would fail even to supply at the rate of 100 cubic Principles of ^'^'^^ P®^" ^o^^^'- siuiplo are the principles of naval ven- ar7si'inpie'''''"°° tilatiou, that with the aid of an intelligent shipmaster, tem- porary means for effectual ventilation may be instituted , without cost or delav, in any transiiort. The proper man- Attention to the ' air-supply not to agenieut of the ventilation, too-ether Avith the strict clean- be neglected an . 7 ''o'^'- Imess and police of the ship, are indispensable every horn* that soldiers remain upon a transport.