PNEUMONIA. 9 present in a marked degree, tlic pnlse and skin denoting dimin- islicd i)()\ver of the circnlation, the disease is said to be asthenic. In each of these varieties the local afFection. so fai- as it can 1)6 appreciated by the physical signs during life, or by examina- tions after death, nnay be tlie same. It is an exjn-ession of a well-known pathological fact, applicable alike to this and other inflamnnitory afl'ections, to say that, -with a similar amduiit of inflammation, different cases ditfer extremely as regards the disturbance of the system. The system appears to tolerate dif- ferently the same affection in different cases. And it is obvi- ous that the management must have reference to the condition of the system quite as much as, if not, indeed, much moi'e than, to the local affection. In cases presenting ]iassive de- lirium and adynamia, the disease is called typhoid pneumonia. Here, too, the gravity and danger relate not so much to the local affection as to the general condition ; and here, also, the treatment is to be governed more by the general symptoms than hy the degree or extent of the inflammation. 6. The rapidity with which the exudation takes place in pneumonia, sufliciently to solidify the affected portion of lung, is of importance with reference to treatment. Ditferent cases differ in this regard; but it is not nnusual to And the physi- cal signs of complete or considerable solidification (bronchial respiration and bronchophony) within twenty-foui- honi-s after the date of the attack, and frequently this occurs in the course of forty-eight hours. Ilence, were it possible to pre- vent this result, it must be by therapeutical measures, which act with a pronq^tness commensurate with the rapidit}' of the exudation. 7. Other important facts relate to the removal of the exuda- tion. It is removed chiefly, or exclusively, by absorption, not by expectoi'ation. The source of the expectoration in pneumo- nia is mostly, if not entirely, from coexisting circumscribed l)ronchitis. This fact has an obvious bearing on the use of remedies called expectorants, or, on the otliei- hand, on the use of remedies which are supposed to interfere with expectoration. It is well known that pneumonia may be completely latent so far as cough and expectoration are concerned. The removal