VACCINATION IN ARMIES. 19 wliicli fonnerl,)- prevailed ; but that (here is at least a (l()ul)t as to whether that proteetiun is operative during the period of life when men are most useful, and wliethei-, as they approaeh adult life, they do not partially or wholly recover that suscep- tibility to smallpox wliich vaccination had once extinguished in them. If a doubt upon this latter j-xAnt exist in the minds of those to whom the health of our troops is intrusted, surely they have a right to the benetit of that doubt, and it becomes the duty of those in authority to provide the means of safety, and restore or fui'nish tliat immunity which tlie soldier has either lost or failed to receive. 3. Is Iievacci7iaiion a preventive of smallpox f The answer to this question is found in the rich statistical results, mostly from foreign sources, b,y which so large a reduc- tion both of the mortality and the disease itself is shown as to leave no doubt of its efficacy. Your committee have drawn largely from the rej)oi-ts of revaccination of large masses of men in vari(uis militar}'establishments, especially in German}', collected by Mr. Simon. The eai'liest experience of this kind came from Wirteiuberg. In 1829 the pi-actice of revaccinating the troops of that kingdom was commenced, and its collective results for the next few years are recorded in the following table, showing an abstract of these results in relation to live years, terminating with June, 1836. The author calls atten- tion to one great fact deducil)le tVom tliese observations. It is, that "on the average of more than l-l-,Ol)0 experiments (an immense majority perforuicd at ages between twenty and thirty years), Si out of every 100 persons revaccinated de- veloped the same soi't of vesicle as would arise from a first insertion of vaccine lymph. And it is important to observe that this renewed susceptibility to cowpox did evidently not depend, so far as could be traced, on any original ineftective- ness of the former vaccination; for (as is expressly set forth in the second part of the table), among the 14,3S4 subjects of vac- cination, there were 7,845 who ])resented strictly normal scars ot previous vaccination. Yet neai-ly a third of this large num- ber gave again exactly such phenomena as arise in children