VACCINATION IK ARMIES. 8 conclusive, and have drawn largely from both domestic and foreign sources. The late Dr. S. Forrj, in the Boylston Prize Essay, 18-i4, says, that, " as respects the protecting power of vaccination against smallpox, it is, when perfect^ as complete a protection as any other prophylactic known to man." The report of the committee of the Medical Society of Philadelphia, by Drs. C. J. Coxe, Condie, and C. D. Meigs, contains the remarkable fact, that during the prevalence of a most malignant and fatal smallpox in 1827, but one w^ell- ascertained death from that disease, among 80,000 vaccinated, came to tlie knowledge of the committee. Drs. J. Bell and J. K. Mitchell* report that of 248 cases of variola and varioloid treated at tlie Smallpox Hospital, 155 were unprotected, of whom 85 died; 64 were vaccinated, of whom but a single one died ; 9 were inoculated, of whom 3 died; and of the 13 whose condition was unknown, none died.f In an epidemic which prevailed from 1825 to 1827, in Co- penhagen, of those who had been vaccinated 428 were attacked; and in 2H of these all the symptoms of genuine variola were evinced, but only two of them died.:}: In Ilolstein, from 1801 to 1822, 234,959 were subjected to vaccination, and only two individuals, even two years subse- quent to this, had during all that time been affected with smallpox. In the kingdom of Denmark, during the same period, only one individual among 447,605 vaccinated had been attacked by modified variola. Dr. G. B. Wood§ says, that "vaccination afibrds the best attainable security to life, greater even than that accruing from a previous attack of smallpox ; that, M-ith due care, it will serve as an eflectual safeguard in individual cases almost with- out an exception. In the course of my practice, though I have seen much of tlie disease, I have lost but one patient after vaccination, and in that instance death occurred, not from the violence of the varioloid disease, which was mild, but from * N. A. ]\rcd. and Surp. .Touni., v<il. ii., ]S'2G. t Bell and Stokc's Pmclico. X Forry. § Practice, vol. i., 410.