PNEUMONIA. 7 pentical measures, to present, as concisely and compactly as possible, the practical views which appear to the Committee to be most consistent with our present knowledge of the disease, and with the results of clinical experience. 1. Ordinary pneumonia, uncomplicated and not extending over more than a single lobe, does not, per se, involve much, if any, danger to life. The truth of this statement has been shown by large collections of cases in which the disease has been allowed to pursue its course without medicinal treatment, or with only palliative remedies. A fatal termination, there- fore, in such cases, must depend on circumstances incidental to the disease, or on injudicious interference. It is obvious that, when active measures of treatment are indicated in such cases, the indications are derived from the incidental circum- stances more than the disease itself. 2. The disease is much more grave, and becomes dangerous to life, when it invades more than a lobe, affecting an entire lung, or, more rarely, portions of both lungs (double pneumo- nia). The greater proportion of these cases is one of the rea- sons of the greater fatality of pneumonia at the South. In many of these cases, however, recoveiy takes place, and the symptoms do not always denote great gravity or dangei'. A source of gravity in these cases, to which attention has not been sufficiently directed, is the large amount of exudation matter deposited in the lungs. In fatal cases, in which an entire lung is solidified, the increased weight of the affected lung, due to the solidifying deposit, may be as high as four pounds. This large quantity of matter is, of course, withdrawn from the solid constituents of the blood.* 3. The complications of pneumonia account for the danger to life in certain cases. One of the most serious complications is pericarditis. This occurs oftener at the South than at the North. This complication does not render the termination necessarily fatal. Patients may recover, even when, in ad- * See Clinical Lecture, Ifcic Orleans Medical Times, March, 1861, and the JVew York Medical Times.