TYPirUS FKVEIl. 21 In tlie formative stage, that is. on tlic fir^t day of tlie sudden accession of symptoms of tlie fever ('not later), if tliere be no gastric disturliance, a full emetic of ipecac, sul- phate of zinc, or mustard, may he given in hopes to arrest or cut short its progress. Later than this, or al'ter reaction has supervened, the fever must run its course. Bearing in mind the essential adynamic cliaracter of the affection, the indications are now to sustain the vital forces—protect the important or- gans— modify existing symptoms, and minister to the relief of the sufferer. Attention to diet is always important. The bland articles of nutriment, arrowroot, sago, ground rice, mush, and occasionally the lighter jellies (if they can be got), in the acute stage; and when prostration is :narked, the animal es- sences and broths are to be given, in small quantities at frecpient intervals, Wii-tching their effect. Demulcent beverages, such as the infusion of flaxseed, milk and water, and the like, should constitute the principal drinks. Early in the disease a gentle cathartic is required ; castor-oil in emulsion is best. This is to be repeated, or emollient enemata substituted, as occasion requires during the course of the disease. General blood-letting is not well borne in typhus. It is better to discard it altogether. If reaction is excessive, and the vascular excitement intense, or if important organs are particularly involved, demanding vene- section in ordinary cases, other means are still preferable liere, I'emembering that tlie disease may, at any time, sink suddenly from a state of apparent exaltation, to that of depression of all the vital forces. For local affections, likewise, dry cupping may be used instead of local bleeding ; and if violent vascular action is manifest, with burning surface, dry tongue, and full and ac- celerated pulse, recourse may be had to the administration of a mild solution of tartar emetic, and tepid sponging of the whole surface; or the milder refrigerants and neutral mixture may be sometimes substituted with good effect, unless the bronchial and pulmonary tissues ai'c involved. The intense cephalalgia is oftenest relieved by the application to the forehead of flannels dipped in hot vinegar and water. JSTausca and uneasiness of the stomach, are best mollified by a sinapism to tlie epigastrium. Sleep may, in most cases, be induced by minute doses of the