21 VACCINATION TN ARMIES. infected atmosphere; so th;it many persons, when the lymph of cowpox or smallpox is inserted in their skin, will give, lo- cally at least, evidences of susceptibility which no atmospheric infection would have elicited from them. And of this perhaps there can be no more ready illustration than the fact that per- sons loho lore marks of jprevioiis smallpox were, in at least equal proportion with previously vaccinated persons, capaUe of pro- d^mingperfect vaccine vesicles ; and probably they too, if test- ed with variolous matter, would have shown at the inoculated part similar signs of susceptibility; whereas, notoriously, of persons who have once had smallpox, not nearly one-third be- comes afterwards capable of contracting smallpox by frequent- ing; the neisrhborhoood of the sick. Ftjr this reason (greatly corroborated by what liad ali'eady in every-day practice been observed of the immunity of once vaccinated pei'sons), it was evidently impossible to argue that all who on revaecination yielded pei'fect vaccine vesicles would, on ordinary exposure to smallpox infection, have been infected with smallpox. Not that all, or nearly all, of them would have suffered, but that from among them more than from anion": other vaccinated persons the occasional suft'erers by small- pox would have come. (p. 34.) In the Prussian army, in 1833, there were revaccinated be- tween forty and fifty thousand adults, and in about 33 per cent, of the entire number this revaecination took with perfect success. In a revaecination of Russian soldiers at Kasan, the rate of pei'fect success was ISf per cent. It was observed at the same time, that in 1,436 persons presenting marks of pre- vious smallpox, perfect vaccine vesicles would arise just as often as on persons who had once been vaccinated! " Of nearly 20,000 revaccinations practised in the Danish army in the four years 1843-5 and 1847, more than half were attended with perfect success, and more than a quarter with modified success." " By the earliest of these various independent observations it was put beyond question that the same lapse of time which renders some vaccinated persons again susceptible of smallpox, rendcj's tliem also susceptible of cowpox. But it I'emains to be