34 It should be borne in mind that, if the vapor of bromine comes in contact with the vapor of water, hydro-bromic acid is formed; tliere- foi-e, when there is much of tlie vapor of water disengaged in tlie a])art- meut, the quantity of the vapor of bromine must be correspondingly increased. 2. Topical Application of the Yapior.—A piece of dry lint is to be placed over the diseased part; over this is to be placed another piece of lint, moistened with tlie solution of bromine ; over this, a third piece spread tvith simple cerate ; the whole to be covered with oiled sill< and bandage, so arranged as to retain the vapor in contact with the diseased surface as long as possible. The solution is to be removed as often as it becomes exhausted by evaporation. 3. Tlie Solution, in Substance, as a direct Application, in Hospital Gan- grene, Diplitheria, Gangrene of the Tongue, and other diseases of this nature:—The parts are first to be dried by the application of cbarpie; then the sloughs, if thick, should be trimmed out with forceps and scis- sors as much as possible, for the thinner the slough the more effective is the remedy. The pans having again been dried, the solution is ap- plied by means of a mop, or a pointed stick of wood, in quantity sufficient to saturate the sloughs. If the sloughs undermine the skin, or dip down into intermuscular spaces, the solution must be made to follow, with the pointed stLcl\:, or by means of a glass syringe. If the application has been eflectual, all odor from the diseased surface ceases, and the sloughs become somewhat hardened. The remedy should be re-applied every second hour, as long as any odor of putrefaction is present, or as long as the sloughs appear to be diffluent. It is not always necessary, especially when the sloughs are diffluent and thin, to use the solution in its full strength ; it may be weakened by the addition of water, as the disease subsides. The points to be especially attended to, in the use of the solution of bromine, are two: 1. The solution should be applied in strength and frequency suflBcient for the impregnation of the lohole of the sloughs; 2 To secure this end, the application slwidd be made hj the surgeon him- self, and never be trusted to a nurse. If the sloughs are thick and cannot well be trimmed, the bromine may be introduced into the thickness of the slough by means of a hypodermic sj'ringe. After the topical application of the solution, the parts, Avhen so situated as to render it practicable, should be subjected to the influence of the vapor. (Sec par. 1.) Surgeons will do well to bear in mind that bromine is a new remedy for the purposes indicated above. The directions for its use, given here, are those followed in the military hospitals of thiscity^; it may be found advisable to modify them as experience with the remedy accunnilates. It is, therefore, earnestly recommended that the subject be studied dili- gentl3\ that the effects of the remedy be carefully watched, and that the application be varied as new facts are developed in its use. The investigation of the evidences respecting the antiseptic and prophy- lactic powers of this new disinfectant has reasonably confirmed the opinion of its great utility. But to secure its beneficial effects, its ap- plication should be made with proper care and thoroughness. It claims to arrest the destructive progress of gangrene, erysipelas, etc., and utter- ly to destroy the personal and the diffused virus of such maladies. To accomplish this ellectually, the bromine must be applied to every mole-