QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC 16 service, to furnish fiv(^ grains per diom to every member of a Ibrce of 35,000 men, I beg you will take such measures as you think proper, with a view to induce tlie medical officers to employ that remetly, in the hope that it may prove useful in warding off attacks of fever, &c. " I have the honor to be, &c., &c., (Signed) " A. SMITH, Director-general. " Dk. Hall, &c., &c." The evidence collected from the recorded experience of iu- telligent and reliable travellers and explorers in niahirial re- gions, and from tlie British merchant service, fnllj confirm tiie facts derived from military and naval reports. The quotations appended, fairly illustrate its general tenor. The remarks on African fever in the second quotation are recorded in conse- quence of their truth and force, and because they demonstrate its identity with the miasuiatic diseases of our own country. " Of the measures, as hygienic, moat were of a general nature, the only more specific ones being the free use of quinine. The amount of sickness was very little, so that, except with the scorbutic cases. Dr. Ilutchiuson's really medical duties were not onerous. Of the Europeans, the most exposed to climatical influences were Mr. Harcus, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. May, and myself; Mr. Harcus was chiefly exposed dm-ing the day, and suffered only from frequent headaches firom the effects of the sun's rays. Mr. Guthrie, besides undergoing daily an immense amount of fatigue, slept regularly on deck, and, nevertheless, escaped entirely. Mr. ]SIay and I went ashore whenever opportunities occurred, and as often by night as by day : we had frequently to land in swamps and other un- healthy spots, yet Mr. May had only one short and not severe febrile attack : I, in addition, always slept on deck, and was roused regularly at twelve o'clock, and at three in the morning, for the purpose of recording meteorological ob- servations ; but while in the river I had constant health. I mention the.se cir- cumstances to show that, under i)ro]ier precautions, Eurojieans may not only live quietly, but even commit with impunity what some years ago wovdd have been considered indiscretions."—Bdikies Explurin(j Voyage, p. 328. " It will be sufficient hero to say, that African f(5ver has nothing specific about it, that it is certainly not sui ge/ierin, and that it is merely an aggravated form of the disease known in this country as ague. "The various divisions into continued, remittent, and intermittent, are only calculated to puzzle and to mislead : they refer to degrees, and not to actual differences; and these forms gradually, but surely, merge into each other. In its mildest form, the fever is intermittent, that is to say. between the paroxysms intervals of health occur; more aggravated, the comj)laint becomes remittent, meaning, that between the febrile accessions the symptoms only remit,but do not ftltogi>ther di.sapi'ear : in its greatest severity the disease is 7'/a.v/-rontinued, or to the unpractised eye seems to be devoid of paroxysmal changes, but to prf)-