41 copper ranks : Imi willi all, (ho associa I ion of a small propor- tion of opium is advisable. Among- romodies of this kind, balsam of copaiva is one of the most valuable. In these, as well as in (he preceding- form of chronic dysentei-y, blisters to the abdomen may 1)0 resorted to -with decided advantage, pro- vided the strenglh of the patient is not very greatly reduced: but they should iiol- remain applied long enough to produce a suppurating surface. If the appetite is feeble, and digestion imperfectly performed, (he bitter vegetable tonics arc indicated, as cinchona, coloniba, simaruba, and angustura, the last two of which are reputed to have a specific virtue in dysentery. Angustura is even lield to possess peculiar advantages in the low forms of the acute disease. It is important that the decoc- tion or infusion of these lutters should not be unduly strong. Finally, when anemia complicates the disorder of the bowel, and bitter vegetable preparations fail to invigorate digestion, iron should be prescribed, and pai'ticularly the pre])arations which possess a marked astringency, as the muriated tincture, the persesquinitrate, and the |)erc!iloride. These remedies may be appropriately alternated with the vegetable bitters. If the local irritation about the rectum continues, so as to occasion tenesmus, it may be palliated by leeches around the margin of the anus, by (,he application of warm narcotic va- pors, or warm liii)-baths; by injections or suppositories of opium or belladonna, or by the injection of a .solution of nitrate of silver, containing from om; to live grains of the salt, to an ounce of water. On the other hand, if a relaxed atonic condition of the anus exists, it should l)e treated with cold hip-baths and cold astringent injections, particularly such of the latter as contain the acetate or suljacctatc of lead. The tincture of nux vomica or strychnia, may be administered internally, the former in the dose of five drops, gradually augmented, and the latter, in the 3*