12 below the foot to the axilla, the inner one from the same point to the perineum; the bottom, smoothly bevelled off above at its upper edge, should reach from the tuber ischii as far down as the other two. Counter- extension may be made from the perineum as in the ordinary Physick's apparatus, extension by any convenient band fastened to a peg driven either between the two sides, which is best, or vertically into the bottom of the box at its lower end. Straw, hay, sand, bran, cotton, tow, or even leaves, may be used to embed the limb and prevent its contact with the wood. In hospital, as a matter of course, the treatment may be as a general rule carried on much as in civil practice. Desault's apparatus, as modified by Physick, is widely and favorably known. Counter-extension may be made either with the stufied tube of buckskin or muslin, the perineum being daily washed with whiskey, and carefully dried before the hand is reapplied, or by means of adhesive plaster when an abundance of this material is at hand. With regard to the extension, this is best made with adhesive plaster, in the following way: A strip 2 inches wide, and twice as long as from the seat of fracture to 3 inches below the sole of the foot, is stretched as much as possible. A bit of thin wood, 2 inches square, is next fitted to the middle of its adhesive surface, and on either side of this a small slit is cut lengthwise in the plaster. Through these two slits a strip of band- age is passed, so that the bit of wood is between the two strips. The ad- hesive band being now applied up along each side of the limb, .and fixed by two ori»three transverse or circular strips of plaster, it will be found that strong extension may be made by pulling on the two ends of the bandage, and may be rendered permanent by tying them to the lower part of the outside splint. During the early stages of the treatment, while the muscles are apt to contract spasmodically, it is well to insert in some way a piece of elastic material, which will yield somewhat, resuming its tension the moment the spasm subsides. Some surgeons, among whom is Dr. Buck, of New York, discard the long splint for fractures of the thigh, making counter-extension from the* head of the bed, and extension by a weight attached to the foot and hang- ing at the foot of the bed. From 15 to 30 pounds will be requisite for a man of average muscular development. Short splints should always be employed when the long splints are omitted. They may be confined in place by means of circular bands of adhesive plaster, or by the upper turns of a roller which begins at the toes. If the long splints of Physick are used, they should be just wide enough to prevent the circular strips of bandage from bearing upon the skin of the limb; they should each be lined, if possible, with a piece of old blanket, folded in four or five thicknesses. When this cannot be had,