16 morphia being injected under tlic skin of the most convenient part of the body. In cases of vomiting and purging, this is the only prompt and reliable mode of administration. Should the stomach be oppressed, or nausea be present, nothing gives so much relief as an emetic of mustard powder or of ipecacuanha. Spontaneous vomiting is best treated by copious draughts of warm water, rendered alkaline by soda, potash, or lime, if necessary. Sinapisms may be applied to the epigastrium, if nausea and emesis continue unduly. In cases of great prostration of nervous system during the cold stage, it is frequently necessary to have recourse to stimuli, such as wine, brandy or whiskey, ammonia, ether, &c. If the stomach or bowels do not furnish a contra-indication, it is well, also, to give a scruple of sulphate of quinine by the mouth, or a half drachm by the rectum, in order to avert any tendency to the more serious form of congestive fever that may follow this peculiarity of the first stage. It is often advisable to continue the use of quinine, every two hours, in doses two-thirds as large, until cinchonism or complete reaction be produced. For the management of pyrexia, in simple intermittents, little is needed. Cold sponging of the body relieves the burning heat \ sinapisms or other rubefacients give ease to the neuralgic pains ; gastric disturbance should be treated by means already indicated, and by the administration of carbonic acid. Cold drinks, not in too large quantity, assuage the thirst. During the sweating stage, nothing is needed more than to take care that the patient do not take cold from exposure. The practice of venesection, so much lauded by many authors, has not been alluded to, because there is no end attainable by it that may not be more easily secured by other means w-hich are comparatively destitute of danger, and which do not postpone convalescence by weakening the patient. If it be atlvisable in any class of people, it is assuredly most so among soldiers, where a speedy return to duty should be one of the first considerations of the medical otficcr.