PNEUMONIA. 21 begin to sit up, wlien he feels a desire to do so, will be found not to retard recovery, but, on the other hand, apparently to hasten the progress of resolution. Finally, with i-egard to pneumonia, as well as other diseases which may endanger life, let it be borne in mind that, although it is the most important end of medical j^raetice to prevent a fatal termination, this does not comprehend tlie whole aim of the physician even in cases which recover. If he cannot cut short or abridge the duration of a disease, the next best result is to conduct it to a favorable issue. But this is not all. A rapid convalescence and a complete restoration to health are other important objects. And, in seeking to determine the relative merits of difierent methods of treating a disease, w'e are not to be guided solely by a comparison of the ratio of mortality, but by comparing the condition of patients during convalescence and after recovery. As regards the disease un- der consideration, although the substitution of a soothing and supporting tj'catment for the active measures formerly in vogue has doubtless diminished the rate of mortality, yet the improve- ment is equally shown in the rai)idity and completeness with which health is regained. In concluding this Keport, the following propositions are submitted, embodying the practical views which have been presented respecting the management of pneumonia: 1. Uncomplicated pneumonia, limited to one lobe, in gen- eral does not claim active treatment of any kind ; simple palli- ative remedies and hygienic measures being alone required. 2. Blood-letting and other antiphlogistic measures, with a view of subduing the inflammation, are not warranted by a sufficient probability of success, and, if resorted to for this pur- pose, will be likely in many cases to do harm. 3. Blood-letting is useful, not by a direct effect on the local affection, but indirectly by diminishing the intensity of the symptomatic febrile movement. It is admissible only in cases characterized by intensity of the febrile movement, when the affection is said to be sthenic, and only in the first stage of the affection. 4. In the cases to which blood-letting, if employed at all, should be restricted, the good effects nniy generally be obtained