12 QUININE AS A PROPHYLACTIC "It lias long been a standing rule in the Navy, enjoined by tlie 9th Article of the Surgeon's Instructions, tliat when men are to be sent on shore in tropical climates, to procure wood and water, or on other laborious duties, tlie sur- geon, if he consider it advisable, is to recommend for each man, ])reviously to his leaving the ship, in the morning, a drachm of powdered bark (Peruvian), in half a gill of wine, and the like quantity of wine after the mixture ; or, if there be no wine on board, one-eighth of a gill of spirits, mixed with the fourth of a gill of water, is to be used in lieu of it; and the same proportion of each is to be given to the men on their return to the ship in the evening." As evidence of the beneficial influence of this measure, the following instances are related : " Twenty men and one officer were employed on shore for one day at Sierra Leone; to the former, bark, mixed ^vith wine, was given; but the latter re- fused to take it. He was the only person of the whole party who was subse- quently attacked with fever. Again, two boats' crews were detached from the Hydra to examine the river Slicrbro. They remained away for a fortnight, and during the whole time took bark and wine as directed by the instrtictions, yet, though the: locality is a most dangerous one, not one case of fever follo\'\-ed ; but another boat's crew, who were absent for two days onl}-, iii the same lo- cality, and at the same time, who did not take bark, were all attacked exceiit the officer in command of the boat." In a report on the African station, in 1847, Dr. Brvson feel- ing "the most perfect faith in tlie preventive influence of qui- nine, and trusting to its well-known antagonism to the recur- rence of periodic diseases," suggested, for obvious reasons, that it should be employed as a prophylactic in the Navy instead of bark, " and tliat its nse should be continued, not only while the men were exposed in unhealthy localities, hwt for at leant fourteen days after they returned on hoard, in oi'der that the antagonistic influence of the medicine might be kept up until the incubative period of the disease had c.x]iired. The suggestion was adopted, and the j'esults, upon the whole, are most satisfac- tory. A strong spirituous solution of a//io/'j}/iou.'^ quinine'^ was mixed with several pipes of wine, in the pi-ojiortion of four gi'ains of the salt to an ounce of the wine."' This preparaiioii. * Amorphous quinine is obtained from the "mother waters," after the pure quinine has crystalli/.ed. It is to be obtained from the manufacturers of quinine, and enters into the conqiosition of several |)atent medicines which have a repu- tation for curing agues. It is much cheaper than pure quinine, and a littlo more than half its streiiglli.