MILITARY HYGIENE AND THERAPEUTICS. 1?, tween their upper surface and the level of tlie ground. Before the pit is filled in, the cai-cass or ofFal sliould be covered with charcoal. Similar precautions should be observed in the in- terment of human bodies. After a severe engagement, attend- ed with great loss of life, the bodies should be interred in trenches eight or ten feet in dcjjth. When offensive emana- tions arise from the ground, in consequence of tlie decomposi- tion of organized substances, the surface should be covered with deodorizing materials. The British sanitary inspectors ill the Crimea I'eccmimended for this purpose a cdmpound con- sisting of one part of peat charcoal, one part of quicklime, and four parts of sand or gravel. Mr. Sorive, medical inspector of the Fi-ench army in the Crimea, i-ecommended a solution of cldoride of lime for the same purpose. He sometimes directed the solution of sulphate of iron to accomplish this object. He also directed the bodies of men and animals to be covered witii a thick stratum of lime, after being buried at a proper depth. IV. Clothing. Flannel should be worn next to tlie skin. The clothing should be light, and should be so adjusted as not to interfere with the most perfect freedom of muscular action. Each soldier should be provided with one or more blankets, for protection during the night. The clothing should be washed and thoroughly dried as often as circumstances will permit. From the first of October to the end of May, each soldier should be provided with a thick overcoat to protect him from cold and stormy weather. The feet should be covered with stockings, and stout shoes with broad soles and low heels. The shoes should not be tight so as to pinch the feet, but they should not be exces- Bively loose. Great care is required with fresh recruits, to prevent the feet from becoming sore. If the heel becomes sbghtly chafed, the part should be at once covered with adhe- sive plaster. For want of this simple precaution many soldiers have become disabled, and have thus fallen into the" hands of the enemy, and in contests with savages, liave lost their lives.