11 For fractures of the metacarpal bones or phalanges, a liand-splint should be used, with a block or pad as described above. In many cases, it is suf- ficient to close the hand over a ball of the proper size, securing it so by means of adhesive plaster. Fractures of the loiver extremities are especially difficult of manage- ment, on account of the size and weight of the parts involved, and the consequent trouble in fixing the fragments so as to prevent their rubbing against one another or tearing the adjacent soft tissues. In the thigh, the bone being single and comparatively small, the muscles powerful, and the leverage on the lower fragment great, it is very gener- ally necessary to use some extending force from the outset. Sometimes, on the march or in the field, we must be content with the straw-splint described in Section I; but if possible, some form of exten- sion should be added to this. Thus a board of proper length may be placed along the outer side of the limb, and a handkerchief folded cravat- wise passed around the perineum and tied to its upper end, while the foot is secured below in like manner. The extend- ing band may in such a case be tied over the shoe or boot. Or the board may be placed along the inner side of the limb, its upper end carefully padded, bearing against the perineum. Another plan, when the patient is to be transported in a vehicle, is to drive pegs into the floor of it at points corresponding with the axillse, and others a few inches beyond the soles of the feet; these pegs being long and strong enough to serve as points of at- tachment, the upper ones for the shoulders, the lower ones for the feet, by means of wisps of straw, handkerchiefs, bandages, or adhesive , strips. (See cut.) Other pegs may be driven so as to be conveniently grasped by the hands of the patient. Whatever material is used for him to lie on, should be laid as evenly as pos- sible; and the injured limb should be care- fully and firmly wrapped in its own bundle of straw. When time permits, and a few boards can be had, a very good plan is to have a box knocked together, consisting of a bottom and two sides. The outer side should be long enough to reach from 4 inches