23 consist of support and sucli medicine as particular symptoms may require. It is needless to say that premature exposure, in any way. is to be avoided ; that just care should be paid to bavina proper quantity of nutritious, easily digested food, and that all possible hygienic precautions should be observed. In describing the treatment of Congestive Fevcr^ much might be written, but it would be of little benefit to the practical physician after what has preceded. To recover the patient from the stage of collapse, bleeding and mercurials are men- tioned only to be condemned. The use of cold baths, or cold afl'usion, as described under the head of remittent fever, is per- haps as satisfactory and practicable a method as can be followed. When conveniences for this are wanting, the use of dry cups to the spine, warm applications to the surface with bricks, bottles, or by the hot-air baths, and friction of the skin, are to be recom- mended. The first indication is the same that has already been stated, viz. to produce the specific influence of quinine as soon as possible. It is doubtful if it be necessary to give more than a drachm in any interval. Never wait for intermissions ; let positive inability of the stomach or rectum to receive the medicine be the only obstacle to its administration. In despe- rate cases, raise one or more blisters by boiling water or by ammonia ; sprinkle the denuded cutis with the sulphate of qui- nine, reduced to the finest possible powder, covering the surface with oiled silk afterwards. Great caution is needed, during convalescence, rules for practice in which may be gathered from what has been said under the head of remittent fever. 1^0 stress has been laid on tlie matter of prophylaxis. All that need be said in addition to the various deductions from what has preceded, is so completely set forth in Document D (31) of the publications of the Sanitary Commission, as to render further remark supererogatory. For the Committee, JOHN T. METCALFE, M.D., Chairman.