10 may be bent over so as to fit the front of the arm. (See cut.) All these inside angular splints should have the part corresponding to the hand cut at an obtuse angle with that for the forearm, so that the hand may be inclined toward its ulnar border; this will add greatly to the patient's comfort. It is easy to see how the same purpose could be answered with a piece of stout wire, bent so as to form a frame for the limb, well wrapped in bandage, and secured like any other splint. Extension and counter-extension, when a strong tendency to shortening exists, may be best made by means of a separate splint, applied first of all, and reaching along the back of the arm from above the shoulder to below the elbow, bands of adhesive plaster being passed beneath the axilla to its upper end, and over the bend of the elbow to its lower. Fractures of the Forearm.—The bones of the forearm are exactly on a plane with one another when the hand is in the semiprone posture, and at the same time none of the muscles are put upon the stretch; this is there- fore the proper position to be given to the hand in all cases of fracture of the upper extremity. It is most effectually secured by means of an inside angular splint, similar to that for fracture of the humerus; the upper or arm part of such a splint not only preventing rotation of the hand, but serving to increase the steadiness of the broken bones. Narrow com- presses, so arranged as to preserve the interosseous space, ought always to be employed. The forearm part of this splint may be made on the prin- ciple of that known by the name of its inventor. Dr. Bond; its edges being cut to correspond with the outline of the forearm, and a block, a wad of paper, a mass of clay, plaster or wax, or a pad of tow, arranged so as to be grasped in the palm of "A the hand. If this block or pad is too \ large, it will simply bend the wrist backward. The same purpose may be answered, if the splint is made of pasteboard, by cutting it long enough to reach the ends of the fingers, poftening its end in water, and then doubling or rolling it backward. (See cut.) Angular deformity is less likely to ensue in fractures of the ulna or of both bones near the middle, if a slip of leather or of pasteboard is tacked along the ulnar border of the splint, or by turning up this border if the splint is made of pasteboard. Fractures of the olecranon are even rarer in military than in civil sur- gery; they are best treated by means of an anterior pasteboard splint, bent very slightly, and adhesive plaster directly applied so as to keep the fragment as nearly in place as possible.