10 ON HEMORRHAGE FROM WOUNDS. support, and the hollow space secures a fixed position of the pad. Having discovered the artery then,-at these two points, namely, near the centre of the groin above, and in the centre of the space behind the knee below, it only remains to join the two by a line which will pass from the pubic bone down along the inside of the thigh bone, gradually winding backward until it is directly behind at the knee. The pulsations of the artery may be easily detected through this entire route in thin persons, but its path is not so readily discovered as that of the main artery of the arm. To any portion of this region the Tourniquet may be applied with the pad over the artery, and sufficient pressure will arrest the current of the circulation, and prevent bleeding from a wound below. ' If the location of the wound should be such as to allow us a choice of places, it is customary to prefer a point about one- third of the way from the knee, as the artery is here more close to the bone. To wounds penetrating the three great cavities of the body, that is of the chest, head and abdomen, the Tourniquet is not ap- plicable. Such wounds should be left open for the escape of blood, as the accumulation of clots in either of these cavities soon leads to fatal results. Hence all the anatomical knowledge that is requisite for the successful use of the Tourniquet, is in fact con- veyed in what has been said of the regions of the upper arm and thigh. Having this knowledge, any person on the field of battle may pick up a stone of the size of a hen's egg, and place it over the main artery of the arm, secure it by tying with a handkerchief or sash, and exert pressure by passing a bit of stick through over the stone, and taking a turn or two until the pulsation at the wrist ceases, or the bleeding is controlled. And the same may be effected in the inferior extremity by the same means, using of course if convenient a stone somewhat larger for the pad, and feeling just back of the inner ankle for the pulse to determine when the circulation is controlled. In the most primitive form of Tourniquet the band made two turns around the limb, and was knotted over the artery. The stone was placed under the inner turn of the band, wliile the