11 PNEUMONIA. rience certainly warrants the assertion tliat this method of treat- ment cannot be relied upon for effecting the objects just named. If this method ever succeeds in arresting pneumonia, the cliance of success in any case is too small to justify its employment whenever it comes into conflict with other indications; or, in other words, whenever it will be likely to do harm if it do not succeed. Abortive measures, other than those commonly known as antiphlogistic, do not require notice, and, indeed, there are none, at the present moment, before the profession. Putting aside arrest of the disease as an object of treatment in the first stage, the inquiry arises, May not active measures, in this stage, so influence the disease as to diminish its inten- sity, and thereby the danger, aiding the patient to pass through it more safely and comfortably, if not more cjuickly, than if the measures were not employed; and will not blood-letting conduce to these desirable ends? A candid review of the dis- cussions which have taken place within the last few years re- specting blood-letting in pneumonia, together with the results of clinical experience, can hardly fail to lead to the conviction that, employed indiscriminately, it will do much more harm than good. This, it must be admitted, may be true, and yet blood-letting be useful in certain cases. Its usefulness is lim- ited to cases characterized by high febrile movement, the patients being robust or of a full habit, and, of course, the disease not advanced to the second stage, when a pound or more of solid nuitter has been withdrawn from the blood to constitute the solidifying deposit. The abstraction of blood,, if the ])ulse be strong, the skin hot, and the pain severe, Avitli more or less dyspnoea, will undoubtedly afford relief, and some- times, perhaps, place the patient in a better condition than if no' active treatment had been resorted to. But even in tlie cases to which bloud letting is to be restricted, if employed at all, may not other measures be substituted which will accomplish the same ends without the spoliative effects of that remedy? We think this question may generally be answered in the af- firmative. Blood-letting in these cases is not so much a cura- tive as a palliative remedy. It is addressed, not directly to the local aftection, but to the symptomatic febrile movement, and.