17 3. Tlie most scvnpnlous cleanliness should be rip;i(.lly impmiance of enforced in everytliin(>; tliat ])crtains to the patients and to linea'a" ""^""^ their apartments. In no ease should a sponge or towel, oi' any article of clothing that has been used upon one of this class of patients, be used upon any otlier patient, unless the article so employed has lirst been cfiectually cleansed and boiled. All such contaminated articles must be treated as being held for the time in domestic quarantine, and they should not be released from sucli rigid restrictions until Persona! clnlh- after having been-washed and sidojected to a boiling heat, spmiVes," eic. iniless treated l)y direct a])plication ot vapor ot bronnne, iuft-ctea, etc. chlorine, or permanc-anate of potash in solution. The attend- 1 ■ 1 ■ 1 1 IT 1 IT- C!cnnline?s of ants upon the sick Avitn these maladies should give scrupu- mnsusana aiten lous attention to personal cleanliness. 4. Thorough dryness should be always enforced in tlie importance of sick-room ; the Hoors should be dry-cleaned, and tlie local n,'e".''s*'or^''uK;'iii atmosphere specially desiccated by means of strong through and tlirough air currents, or, in the absence of such ventila- tion, by the use of special dryers, e. g., (piicklime, or sul- pliuric acid, distributed on shallow plates; or very dry sand laid as a coating on the floors, and frecpiently removed. On shipboard with infectious diseases, such c/;'_y/»(7 of the Means for pro- local atmosphere is of special importance ; and it is proper m"o'"I'i'ire'i'li to remark that the writer has succeeded best in securing board.'" ^" such desiccation by means of Hpecial ventilation, dry-clean- ing the floors, and the free use of dried sand coatings, with the employment of cpiicklime, etc., as here mentioned. 5. Patients with other diseases should not be permitted to Nature and ex- visit wards devoted to typhus or otlier infect lOUS maladies, i^nbirinnn-qnired and ill guarding against the spread of any of the infections, of eaUs.'^''''""" the second as well as of tlie first class, there should be no umiecessarv intercourse between the apartments assi<xned to the different diseases. G. Whatever other diseases or surgical cases may, from ah nnheaicd ... /(. T • • 1 -1 wounds to be iib- nccessity, be sr.iiered to remain m the same Avard, or upon sounuiy nreciud- • 1 1 11 ... ed from the pres- tlie same floor With the second class of infectious, all xm-ence or infections ' of tecond class.