VKXKREAL DISEASES. 13 cMi'licst possible period, even l)efore tlieir nature has been de- termined. ;■). For the destruction <^t" siui])le chancres, nitrate of silver, as commonly employed, is unreliable, and, in most cases, in- adequate. Fuming nitric acid is the most convenient agent, and if the fall of the eschar fails to leave a healthy surface, the application should be repeated. (i. Cleanliness is of the first iuiportance, and that dressing is commonly the best which accomplishes this in the most pei'fect manner. Any collection of the secretion upon the surface of the sore, or upon neighboring i)arts, and the fnrmation (if s(-abs, should be avoided. Lotions are preferable to ointments, and may consist of simple water, a solution of tannic acid (gi'. iij ad aqun? 3 j), a drachm of Labarra(|ue's solution of chlorinated soda to two ounces uf water ; or a di-achm of dilute nitric acid to eight ounces of water; and the di'essing should be kept moist by being covered with oiled silk. Chancres beneath the pre- puce will heal much more speedily, if the glans be uncovered and the sore dressed with wet lint covered with oiled silk, and a circular i)and;ige around the jieiiis. 7. Phagedenic ulceration is tar n)ore likely to attack a simple than an infecting chancre, and is favored by a low state of the general system, however induced, and by a scrofulous diathesis. It is to be treated by [)lacing the patient in the most favorable hygienic coixlitiim, by a nourishing diet, tonics, as the various preparations of iron in large doses, o])ium, and the free cauteri- zation of the ul(;er with nitric acid, Vienna paste, or the actual cautery. A solution of the potassio-tartrate of iron (3 ij ad a(pia? 3 ij) is a valuable local a])plication. The intei'nal use of mercury is highly injurious, 8. A simple chancre may or may not react upon the neigh- boring lymphatic glands. In the foi-mer case it gives rise to an inflammatory bubo, which may be either simple (containing simple pus), or vii-ulent (containing pus capable of inoculation). The two varieties cannot readily l)e distinguished except bj artiiicial inoculation, nor is their diagnosis of much practical importance. The former may sometimes be aborted by rest, the application of tincture of iodine, or a strong solution of