15 xoanuiKj to the 2)'>'uctltluner not to (Jeltuj for a moment the measures requisite for iiiterriqytiiig the paroxysms.''^''''' Ill the ti-eatiiient of miasmatic lever.-, oui- main and great reliance is placed on cincliona and its preparations. "There is 110 snbstitiite fur these. They are nniversally relied npon for this purpose. In all countries and at all periods since tlie discovei'j of the ])roperties of this invaluable and incomparable substance, amidst all the conflictiuo- doo;mas of different medi- cal doctrines, Peruvian bark has never failed to sustain its repu- tation and to answer the expectations that have rested n[)on it. Amidst the mauifuld uncertainties of medical science, and the perpetual contingencies of medical art ; amidst tlie dishearten- ing scientific infidelity which has lately been taking possession of tlie medical mind, shaking to its deep foundations tlie firm old faith in the potency of drugs, and threatening to overturn and demolish it altogether—it is gratifying and consolatory to feel and to know that here, at least, we stand upon solid ground; that here we may hold that tliei'c is one great and im})ortant therapeutical relationship detinitely and positively ascertained and established, defying alike the open assaults of cpiackeiy^ from without and the treacherous machinations of indolent skepticism from within."f The preparation of cinchona, almost universally employed, is the sulphate of quinine. In the treatment of simple intermittent fever, little or nothing is required, during the cold stage, beyond endeavoring to keep the patient warm. Should there be much i)aiii or disturbance of the nervous system, the use of opium is indicated. Tins may be most speedily made efficacious by hypodermic applica- tion—one-quarter of a gndii of muriate, sulphate, or acelate of * I., tl.o diiigaosis of remittent fever, we luive to consider Uic possibility of enteric fever, of pneumonia, of cerebral meningitis, of gastro-enteritis, or of yel- low fever. Mistakes from these sources have only to be mentioned to be avoided, in the generality of cases. \ Bartlctt on Fevers.