15 Lawson observes, concerning sanguineous discharges, that if normal blood corpuscles appear in the flow, it is often a bene- ficial process, by the relief it affords to congestion. In the form of dissolved hsematine, without globules, it seems to be rather a secretion than a true hemorrhage, is often copious, always nnmanageable, and almost of fatal import. Blood passed by stool, and free from foecal matter, thougii of good crassitude and color to the naked eye, is always found under the microscope, with all its corpuscles riqytured. Since the attention of medical men was called to the state of the iirine^ by Staff Surgeon Collins, of the British Army, much valuable information has been acquired, with regard to the kidneys and their secretion. We now know thaf urcemia con- stitutes one of the most important elements in the patliology of yellow fever. Doctor Blair, after observing eighteen liundred cases, states tliat " albumen appeared in the urine in evciy fatal case of normal duration." It appears on the second or third day, generally, and may show itself within twenty-four hours. Rarely was its appearance deferred until the day of death, or the supervention of black vomit. In cases where the fever aborted, the urine was seldom albuminous. In a few it was noted during convalescence. Purging with croton oil seemed to make it later in showing itself. As in ordinary albuminuria, the phenomenon was not constant, occasionally disappearing for a day or two, to return. It ceased to exist, permanently, from the eleventh to the twentieth day, its disappearance being the indication for discharging the patient from the hospital. The color of the precipitated albumen is primrose or sulphur ; never white, as in Bright's disease. Possibly this, too, is due to some form of hasmatoidin, as no bile Avas discovered by analysis. In the urinary sediment, granular casts of the tubes were commonly found, mingled with disintegrated amorphoiis epithe- lium, in the early period from the bladder, later from the nrin-