THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. 14 very important that water for cooking and drinking should be pure. If it is impossible to obtain pure water it should first be boiled and then filtered.1 There is a class of foods that might be arranged under some of the heads already mentioned, but it is simpler to speak of it separately) viz:— Flavourings, or, as they are sometimes called, Condiments. These consist of salt (which comes under the head of minerals), pepper, mustard, vinegar, flavouring herbs, spices, etc. Condiments are of little or no use in repairing the waste of the body, but, used in moderation, they assist in making food more palatable; and by helping to draw out the saliva in the mouth and the other fluids in the stomach which are required to mix with the food, they assist it on through the wonderful changes which have to take place before it is taken into the blood and becomes part of the human body. The four classes of foods—heat-givers, flesh-formers, salts, and water—must be represented in our diet, if the body is to be kept in a healthy state.2 Of these four, cookery has chiefly to do with heat-giving and flesh-forming foods; and it will be observed that in- clination leads us to couple foods together, so that one may supply what the other wants. For example, veal 1 Directions for making a cheap filter are given at page 89. It should, however, be noted that a filter only removes solid matter, such as gravel, sand, etc., but it cannot take away the more danger- ous matters which arc often dissolved in the water, such as sewage, lead, etc. a The chief elements of the body are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon and salts. A certain amount of these, after undergoing various changes and combinations, passes off from the body daily and is replaced as follows :—oxygen, chiefly by the air entering the body by the lungs ; hydrogen, chiefly in the form of water; nitrogen, by flesh-forming or nitrogenous foods; carbon, by warmth-giving or carbonaceous foods ; and salts, by the salts mentioned above.