THE MATERIALS OF FOOD. the kind of food which replaces the used-up materials of the body, are peas, beans, and lentils, called col- lectively “ the pulses.” Persons who have little or no animal food must find their chief flesh-forming food in the pulses, because these contain from two to three times as much flesh-forming power as even the grains that rank next them in that respect. Dr. Parkes writes,1 “ A labouring man by ringing the changes on oatmeal, maize, peas and beans, rice and macaroni (which is made from corn), to which may be added cheese and bacon occasionally, may bring up his children as well nourished as those of the richest people and at a small cost. Oatmeal, the most nutritious of the cereal grains and formerly the staple food of our finest men, .... Indian corn, .... peas and beans and rice are far less used by our poorer classes than should be the case.” I lie names of heat-givers and flesh-formers correctly indicate the chief work of these two important classes of foods. But for the sake of exactness it must be stated that flesh-forming foods certainly do a little towards keeping up warmth; whilst, on the other hand, heat-givers do a little towards making flesh. 1 he power of movement—force—is now believed to be produced chiefly by fatty or heat-giving foods.2 With regard to bones and some other parts of our 1 Page 21, in “ Personal Care of Health " by E. A. Parkes, M.D., F.R.S. (published by the Society for promoting Christian Know- ledge, price is.). Professor Parkes was head of the Government Hospital at Netley. We are indebted to him for most important discoveries about food ; he had great opportunities for observations on soldiers, making great exertions on definite rations weighed out. Fuller information is given in his larger work on Hygiene. *' Liebig and others attributed to flesh-forming foods, especially lean meat, the power of producing force. But the opinion of scien- tific men on this subject has undergone a change, and recent experi- ment points to fats as the means of giving force.