46 SOUPS. Explanation of various terms :— rJfvbr'a* f)our is.t0 very gradually a small quantity of cold liquid, stirring it until it is smooth. y together ^ * miXtU1"e “ t0 add milk or eSg to make it hold - fT° l>’'mvn meat’ etc-> is to place it in a small quantity of hot l.and not turn it until the part is brown. , 'ko ,rice is ,to Put. >t on in cold water and bring it to the boil. This bursts the grains of starch. • T°j!e™ cu]rrants ’,s to r.ub them (the stalks being previously picked) in a damp cloth till clean, or to sprinkle a little Hour over them and rub them in a dry rough cloth. To core is to remove the heart of an apple or pear; this is e.ther done when the apple is whole with a special utensil called a corer, or, after it is quartered, with a knife. To grease a dish, paper, etc., is to rub soft fat, such as dripping or butter over it. It is best to grease a dish with the fingers or a piece of paper, and to spread the fat on paper with a knife. To parboil is to boil anything until half cooked. I o scald vegetables, etc., is to pour boiling water over them for a few minutes, and then throw away the water. To scald milk is to bring it almost, but not quite, to the boil. 1 o shred suet is to cut it with a sharp knife so thinly as to be almost scraping; the suet should be so thin as to curl up. To wash rice, barley, etc., is to pour cold water over them, stir and pour off the water, repeating this till the water poured off is quite clear. VII.—SOUPS. Although many of the following soups can be made with water, they will be richer and more nourishing if, instead of water, they are made with the liquor in which meat has been boiled, liquor from the stockpot, stock made with a few cooked or uncooked bones, or gravy left over from stews. The flavour of soup may be inexpensively varied by any of the following herbs, either used separately or one sprig of several of them may be tied together in a small bunch and put in the soup and removed before serving: sorrel, parsley,