7 the greater sort of minds among the body-Chinir- geons of emperors and kings should not have emancipated themselves from the obviously absurd relationship implied in their being merely the manual executors of the dictates of other men, whose fan- tastic pedantry, and real ignorance of the practical pai-t, they must necessarily have contemned. And in civil life a counterpart was seen. Isolated students in convents, cullers of simples, ignorant travelling quacks and mountebanks, bone-setters and leeches, flitting formless creatures in the' twilight time. Then came the guild of Herbalists and Barber- Surgeons. Then, from our universities, especially on the revival of learning. Physicians, with a truer scholarship and more open minds, to whom all man- kind must ever acknowledge themselves indebted; men competent to hold their place even in that age of erudition, with the most exalted dignitaries in Church and State, and still maintaining, probably on that very account, their old superiority in station over their less learned chirurgical brethren. But now, here and there, a real Surgeon rose; bold, cleai'-sighted, prudent also; successful in grand ven- tures; startling the popular imagination by some mar- vellous cures of deep painful disorders, or of portentous aspect, till then deemed incurable. Thus, Operative Surgery in great cities became the surgery of the greatest practitioners, and oftentimes overtopped and overshadowed the reputation of learned medici; causing, no doubt, jealousies, which we know to have been keen, but which we may now all the more afford to smile at, as we are certain none such exist amongst ourselves. Surgery thus became studied more and more by a class, as its prizes were great, and some men seemed by tastes and natural gifts more fitted to shine in it. It became an ela- borated art, founded on observation of anatomical relations, both healthy and morbid ; it began to have a distinct literature, and a body of rules and pre- cepts, which were the subject of public debate and were traditionally transmitted. Its professors in- creased in numbers and breadth of aun; they even