28 cipients of the boon, which has beeu brought to them from other quarters, and even from a side branch of their own specialty, wliich some great ones among us have sometimes thought scorn of. The other is, tliat the noble sister Art of Physio, (considered also as a specialty) has had no part or lot in this gi'eatest of the applications of modern science to the alleviivtion of man's bodily pangs. I must, however, except Dr. Beddoes, and cannot omit to mention with grateful appreciation the important share borne by the late able and amiable Dr. Snow, both in the theoretical and practical parts of this gi-eat subject, as well as the recent labours of Dr. Richardson. In this instance, as in ahuost, if not quite, all that most distinguish the modern Art of Healing, we see it fostered and advanced, not to say transformed, by the influences of General Science in departments apart from, and beyond ourselves, combined with those of the Special Sciences, which may with some propriety be called medical and practical, because they are prosecuted mainly by men engaged in practice, and with the object of applying them in the treat- ment of disease. Let not, however, individual pro- moters glory, or indeed a great nmnber leagued as a Profession, for that would be even less reasonable. It would almost seem that as " the Earth bringeth forth fruit of herself, first the blade, then the ear, then the fuU com in the ear," so the world in our time is reaping results aU valuable for the good of mankind, which have been long, and in various modes and places, a preparing, and in contemplating which our feeUng should be rather one of thankfulness than of exultation; and this feeling may induce us sometimes to ask ourselves, " Can we do anything now, and in the future to help on, by united action, the harvests of a still brighter hereafter ?" This leads me to refer to the actual distribution, at the present day, in this and other civilised countries, of our professional power or force. The immensity of the field of Medical Science and Art is such, that no one mind has ever been able to embrace it all, and the daily enlargement of it in all