29 directions must render it more and more difficult to do so. Hence the great specialties of Medicine and Surgery, however impossible it may be to draw a pre- cise line between them, or to assign to either of them in an exclusive manner many large depart- ments of practice, have long existed and must continue to prevail. The grounds for them lie; 1. In the necessity for a division of labour in large com- munities (large by concentration of numbers or by ready means of intercourse) ; 2. In the somewhat equal proportions of grave and serious medical and surgical diseases, so called, under the circumstances of human life ; 3. In the varying tastes of individuals, causing men to confine themselves, more or less, to one or other of these divisions of practice. But the great majority of medical men must be ready to undertake all treatment, since the exigencies of society require it of them. Now the very same causes which have developed the Healing Art for ages under two principal divisions, have within a century, and especially of late, led necessarily, and by the very extension of the fields of knowledge, to the multiplication of subor- dinate branches, often just as impossible to define by strict limits. On these a very few remarks are all that the time admits of. Specialties, then, are natural products of a period of progress, and of certain favourable external condi- tions of society, and a.s such shoidd be allowed free course to develope themselves according to their tendencies. The policy of the profession towards them should be always to retain them within its bosom, to hold them to their connexion with the whole, of which they form a pai t, and only to seek to restrain their growth and action, when it disposes them to an isolation, pernicious as regards their own usefulness, alien to the comprehensive spirit of our Art, and a violation of our unity as one body. Medical men, acting under some common impulse, are apt, like any others, to take a one-sided, or what is sometimes called a professional view of whatever new proposal seems to affect them as a class, or in a