CONTENTS. Surgeiy; its permanent dignity and usefulness, 3. Present need of recognising tlie Unity of the whole Art of Healing in order to promote its progress by common efforts, 4. Simple conception of the Healing Art in early times, and by the common sense of modem communities in opposition to artificial distinctions, 6. The Art among the Greeks, Eomans, Arabians, 6. In Britain and the Dark Ages, 6. Gradual rise of the Specialties of Physio and Surgery, 7. The London Colleges, their narrow rivalries, but great services, 8. 'William Harvey, 9. Physio and Surgery in England since his day, 10, William and John Hunter, 13. Idea of the Unity of the Healing Art, developed by modem progress, counteracted by the divergent tendencies of the old Corporations, which need adaptation to modem wants, 15. Notice of Brodie, Green, Todd, and Hastings, 16. Glance at some results of modern science, 19. The Atlantic Telegraph, 19. Geology, 20. Development of Life on oui- planet, and Origin of Man himself, 20. Temper in which medical men and the Clergy should meet such questions, 21. Of recent advances in the Healing Art, 22; in Diagnosis, 23; in knowledge of Health and Disease, 24; in Treat- ment, 25. Medicine is an Art, not a Science, but to be pursued in a scientific spirit, 25. Special glory of recent progress, 25. Antesthetics a splendid example of the influence of genera] science on the Healing Ai't, 26. Prootice of the Healing Art in special departments, 29. Policy as regards these, 29. Union of all for common objects, 31. The Medical Coimcil, 31. Employment of medical men in Govern- mental Departments, 32. A more complete organisation of the whole Profession desirable in refei'ence to its relations to the State, and still more for promotion of medical science, 32 ; particularly for encouraging original reseai'ch by younger men in the sciences ministerial to Medicine, 33. The right and duty of experiments on living animals vindicated, 34. Korly and full translations from foreign languages to be promoted, 37. Conclusion, 39.