17 sued the paths trodden by Hunter. He knew the body and its functions by the evidence of his own senses; he had meditated deeply on the inner pheno- mena of life; he had experimented on animals; he had enlai'ged the knowledge of his day. AVlien the cares of an almost overwhelming practice pressed heavily upon him, he still did not desert Science, and we owe to him, in addition to his many practical works, some most thoughtful contributions to phy- siological psychology. His scientific fame, reaching every where, is an honour to the medical profession, not alone to the Surgeons, but to us aU. Joseph Henry Oreen was of too much capacity to be a Surgeon only. Early devoted to metaphysical speculations, for which his grand and subtle intel- lect peculiarly fitted him, he was also a wise, pru- dent man of action. His views of our Art were always extended and liberal. He embraced within his range all the world of life: he saw that pure sur- gery, so called, was a narrow and impossible speci- ality ; he looked on disease as he found it in Nature, not capable of classification by any such test as that of the applicability to it or otherwise of one special kind of treatment, the chirurgical or manual. This last was to him a noble portion, but a portion only, of the whole Art. He was always anxious, like Brodie, to enlarge the basis of our profession, to elevate the standard of acquirement in its members, and to promote the sciences which belong to it. I recall with gratitude the converse—in later years, the intimate and friendly intercourse—I en- joyed with both these considerable men. The third to whom allusion shall be made was in a nearer sense my loved and honoiired friend and workfellow. Bred a Surgeon as well as a Physician, and always fond of surgical pursuits, a teacher of anatomy, a professor of physiology and of general and morbid anatomy, an ardent worker in the physiological laboratory, mastering in a real and practical manner all the details of his subject, Robert Bentley Todd was both a voluminous writer himself, and a zealous promoter of literary and scientific work in other c