22 by all competent minds, after full inquiry, become, so to say, vox Dei ! That they would remember that such a Voice may be so potent as to rise to the height of that, wliich once summoned an Apostle to cast off his most rooted prejudices, and to exclaim, " What was I that I could withstand God?" While questions of such breadth and importance are pending, it must surely be prudent for them, in the interests of both truth and religion, to hold an even mind. Far from yielding to unworthy feai's of the divine faculty of reason, and abusing those who are honestly employing it within the sphere of its proper activity, let them rather call down a blessing on so good a work; having a Faith, above fear, in the certain victory that awaits both Reason and Rehgion:—both God's precious gifts to man in his darkness, and both certain to harmonise at length in Him! Turning now to touch lightly on some of the advances of medicine in recent days, let us remark how inseparably they blend with, and mutually illustrate, the general progress outside our own immediate province. They may be conveniently comprised in two words, scientific insight into our Work of Healing: the actual conditions of the body, in health or unsoimdness, having become more easily distinguishable; their mutual play and connexions better understood; and our means of profitable inter- ference at once more numerous, more definite, and more manageable. Before a Society so completely informed as you are, Gentlemen, I feel it unnecessary to attempt to make good this part of my programme by laboured argu- ment or lengthy illustrations; examples are only too abounding. Harvey had heard the healthy sounds of the heart, but its morbid sounds inform us now of the nature of its structural defects. The sounds of breathing must countless times ere this have met the ear, but it was reserved for our own days to study them, so as often to enable every tyro to say, what is the state of those great organs, hidden from our view, but so indispensable to life. And so with percussion. Nay, with om- eyes we can now behold for the first