34 application to some present use. We remember that great uses may long lie dormant, and at length dazzle us by their splendour. Witness chloroform. Individuals are naturally prone to pursue studies which appear to them most likely to be crowned by an early result. Few have time or opportunity to labour perseveringly for any far off or uncertain result, and out of mere love of knowledge; but those who desire to do so should be most of all helped on and sustained. As a body, we might have a settled policy, and look further and deeper. Such is the nature of our studies, that at present real advances are to be sought in depth rather than in extent of work. It is only by going deep that we can hope to reach central relations, and such princi- ples as may be at the same time simple and reliable; not simple by the fallacy of an incomplete view. We should encourage, among the less immediately useful matters of scientific research, such kinds as experi- ence reasonably shows to give promise of great and wide, though more remote benefits. The Royal So- ciety was founded simply "for the promotion of natural knowledge", and what results for mankind has it not aided in achieving! In a word, we have the certainty, from all history and from the nature of the thing, that out of know- ledge will flow useful application; and well in- structed men now-a-days will not cavil or sneer at even the least advance, so it be real, into the realms of the unknown in natural phenomena, because it bears no immediate fruit, or gives no present earnest of profit. The radiance which illumines will ever be found also to warm and to cheer man's life upon the earth; and this is especially true in the medical sci- ences, prosecuted as they are by men whose whole habit and tendency is to apply knowledge. The time is too short for me to attempt even to enumerate the lines or provinces of research that might be thus encouraged; but there is one subject on which a few words may not be inopportune at the present time. There is a sentunentalism, which I shall venture