80 large number. Let us, however, consider that our ends coincide with the good of mankind, and that in estimating the good or the evil likely to be done by- new specialties, we should api^eal to no other standard than the pubUc benefit; Is this or that suggestion for the advantage of the community in which we minister ? Our own credit as a body, and generally our individual prosperity will be found in the general good; and if otherwise, we should gladly yield it up to this. Hence there are strong grounds for allowing specialties, whether promoted by smaller or larger numbers, to make progress according to their natural divergencies and powers of maintaining themselves. Some may originate on an insufficient and unreal basis, started, perhaps, by some supposed individual interest, and sustained by some strong personal bias, talent, or local circumstance. These will fail of themselves if they be left alone; and whatever harm they may do in diverting benevolence from more healthy channels, or wasting time and opportunities, these are probably smaller evils than the creation of a feeling in the jDublic mind, with any degree of reason, that we are narrow, or opposed to the progress of our Art. What may be styled the Natural Specialties, are those devoted to mental maladies, the obstetric, oph- thalmic, and some others. These generally have reference to the natural distribution of organs in the frame, or are such as men readily accept, and see the propriety of, in their being manifestly for the convenience of patients as well as practitioners, and conducive to the advancement of knowledge. These are likely to increase in number, and to strengthen their footing. They should be held bound to the professional body by every available tie. Two things have given me pleasure in this point of view; the one that the College of Siu-geons saw the wisdom some years ago of allying the surgeon-dentists of England to themselves by suitable Unks of connec- tion ; the other that the great library of the College of Physicians was lately the scene, under the